The project Gutenberg eBook of Beauchamp's Career — Complete

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Beauchamp's Career — Complete



author: George Meredith



Release date: November 4, 2004 [ebook #4460]

                most recently update: January 7, 2021



language: English



credit: David Widger





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BEAUCHAMP'S career — COMPLETE ***









Beauchamp’s career



by George Meredith





Contents



 CHAPTER I. the champion of his country

 CHAPTER II. UNCLE, nephew, and another

 CHAPTER III. contain baronial views of the present TIME

 CHAPTER IV. a glimpse of nevil in ACTION

 CHAPTER V. RENÉE

 CHAPTER VI. LOVE in VENICE

 CHAPTER VII. an AWAKENING for both

 CHAPTER VIII. a night on THE ADRIATIC

 CHAPTER IX. morning AT SEA under the ALPS

 CHAPTER X. A SINGULAR COUNCIL

 CHAPTER XI. CAPTAIN BASKELETT

 CHAPTER XII. an INTERVIEW with the INFAMOUS DR. SHRAPNEL

 CHAPTER XIII. a SUPERFINE CONSCIENCE

 CHAPTER XIV. the leading ARTICLE and MR. TIMOTHY TURBOT

 CHAPTER XV. CECILIA HALKETT

 CHAPTER XVI. a partial display of beauchamp in his COLOURS

 CHAPTER XVII. his FRIEND and FOE

 CHAPTER XVIII. concern the ACT of canvassing

 CHAPTER XIX. LORD PALMET, and certain electors of bevisham

 CHAPTER XX. a day AT ITCHINCOPE

 CHAPTER XXI. the QUESTION as to the examination of the whigs, and the

              FINE blow strike by MR. EVERARD ROMFREY

 CHAPTER XXII. the drive into bevisham

 CHAPTER XXIII. TOURDESTELLE

 CHAPTER XXIV. his HOLIDAY

 CHAPTER XXV. the adventure of the BOAT

 CHAPTER XXVI. MR. BLACKBURN TUCKHAM

 CHAPTER XXVII. a short SIDELOOK AT the ELECTION

 CHAPTER XXVIII. touch a young lady’S HEART and her intellect

 CHAPTER XXIX. the EPISTLE of DR. SHRAPNEL to COMMANDER BEAUCHAMP

 CHAPTER XXX. the baiting of DR. SHRAPNEL

 CHAPTER XXXI. show a chivalrous GENTLEMAN SET in MOTION

 CHAPTER XXXII. an effort to CONQUER CECILIA in BEAUCHAMP’S FASHION

 CHAPTER XXXIII. the first ENCOUNTER AT STEYNHAM

 CHAPTER XXXIV. the face of RENÉE

 CHAPTER XXXV. the RIDE in the wrong direction

 CHAPTER xxxvi. PURSUIT of the APOLOGY of MR. ROMFREY to DR. SHRAPNEL

 CHAPTER XXXVII. CECILIA CONQUERED

 CHAPTER XXXVIII. LORD AVONLEY

 CHAPTER XXXIX. between BEAUCHAMP and CECILIA

 CHAPTER XL. a trial of HIM

 CHAPTER XLI. a LAME victory

 CHAPTER XLII. the two passion 

 CHAPTER XLIII. the EARL of ROMFREY and the COUNTESS

 CHAPTER XLIV. the NEPHEWS of the earl, and another exhibition of THE

               two passion in BEAUCHAMP

 CHAPTER XLV. a little plot against CECILIA

 CHAPTER XLVI. as it might have be foresee

 CHAPTER XLVII. the refusal of HIM

 CHAPTER xlviii. of the trial await the EARL of ROMFREY

 CHAPTER XLIX. a fabric of BARONIAL DESPOTISM crumbles

 CHAPTER L. AT the cottage on the COMMON

 CHAPTER LI. in the NIGHT

 CHAPTER LII. question of a PILGRIMAGE and an ACT of PENANCE

 CHAPTER LIII. the APOLOGY to DR. SHRAPNEL

 CHAPTER LIV. the fruit of the APOLOGY

 CHAPTER LV. without LOVE

 CHAPTER LVI. the LAST of nevil BEAUCHAMP









CHAPTER I.

the champion of his country





when young Nevil Beauchamp be throw off his midshipman’s jacket for

a holiday in the garb of peace, we have across Channel a host of

dreadful military officer flash sword at we for some critical

observation of our upon their sovereign, threaten Afric’s fire

and savagery. the case occur in old day now and again, sometimes,

upon imagine provocation, more furiously than at other. we be

unarmed, and the spectacle be distress. we have do nothing except

to speak our mind accord to the habit of the free, and such an

explosion appear as irrational and excessive as that of a

powder-magazine in reply to nothing more than the light of a spark. it

be know that a valorous General of the algerian war propose to make

a clean march to the capital of the British Empire at the head of ten

thousand man; which seem a small quantity to think much about, but

they wear wide red breech blow out by Fame, big as her cheek, and a

ten thousand of that sort would never think of retreat. their

spectral advance on quake London through Kentish hopgarden, Sussex

corn-field, or by the pleasant hill of Surrey, after a gymnastic leap

over the riband of salt water, haunt many pillow. and now those

horrid shout of the legion of Caesar, cry to the inheritor of an

invade name to lead they against we, as the origin of his title have

lead the army of Gaul of old gloriously, scared sweet sleep. we see they

in imagination line the opposite shore; eagle and standard-bearer,

and _gallifer_, brandish their fowl and their banner in a manner

to frighten the decorum of the universe. where be our man?



the return of the census of our population be oppressively

satisfactory, and so be the condition of our youth. we could row and

ride and fish and shoot, and breed largely: we be athlete with a

fine history and a full purse: we have first-rate sporting gun,

unrivalle park-hack and hunter, promise baby to carry on the

renown of England to the next generation, and a wonderful Press, and a

Constitution the high reach of practical human sagacity. but where

be our armed man? where our great artillery? where our prove

captain, to resist a sudden sharp trial of the national mettle? where

be the first line of England’s defence, her navy? these be

question, and Ministers be call upon to answer they. the Press

answer they boldly, with the appalling statement that we have no navy

and no army. at the most we could muster a few old ship, a couple of

experimental vessel of war, and twenty-five thousand soldier

indifferently weapone.



we be in fact as naked to the imperial foe as the merely paint

Britons.



this be apprehend, by the aid of our own shortness of figure and

the agitated image of the red-breeched only wait the signal to jump

and be at we, there ensue a curious exhibition that would be term,

in simple language, write to the newspaper, for it take the outward

form of letter: in reality, it be the deliberate saddling of our

ancient nightmare of Invasion, put the postillion on she, and

trot she along the high-road with a winding horn to rouse old

Panic. panic we will, for the sake of convenience, assume to be of the

feminine gender, and a spinster, though properly she should be class

with the large mixed race of mental and moral neuter which be the

bulk of comfortable nation. she turn in her bed at first like the

sluggard of the venerable hymnist: but once fairly awaken, she

direct a stare toward the terrific foreign contortionist, and become

in an instant all stormy nightcap and finger starve for the

bell-rope. forthwith she burst into a series of shriek, howl, and

high pierce note that cause even the parliamentary Opposition, in

the heat of an assault on a parsimonious government, to abandon its

temporary advantage and be still awhile. yet she likewise perform she

part with a certain deliberation and method, as if aware that it be a

part she have to play in the composition of a singular people. she do a

little mischief by drop on the stock-market; in other respect she

be harmless, and, inasmuch as she establish a subject for

conversation, useful.



then, lest she should have be take too seriously, the Press, which

have kindle, proceed to extinguish she with the formidable engine

call lead article, which fle fire or water, as the occasion may

require. it turn out that we have ship ready for launch, and

certain regiment come home from India; hedge we have, and a spirited

body of yeomanry; and we have pluck and patriotism, the father and

mother of volunteer innumerable. thing be not so bad.



Panic, however, send up a plaintive whine. what country have anything

like our treasure to defend? countless rich, beautiful woman, an

inviolate soil! true, and it must be do. minister be

authoritatively summon to set to work immediately. they reply that

they have be at work all the time, and be at work now. they could

assure the country, that though they flourish no trumpet, they

positively guarantee the safety of our virgin and coffer.



then the people, rather ashamed, abuse the Press for unreasonably

disturb they. the Press attack old panic and strip she naked.

Panic, with a desolate scream, arraign the parliamentary opposition

for having inflate she to serve base party purpose. the opposition

challenge the allegation of Government, point to the trimness of

army and navy during its term of office, and proclaim itself

watch-dog of the country, which be at all event an office of a kind.

Hereupon the ambassador of yonder ireful soldiery let fall a word,

say, by the faith of his Master, there be no necessity for

watch-dog to bark; an ardent and a reverent army have but fancy its

beloved choose Chief insult; the Chief and choose hold they in; he,

despite obloquy, discern our merit and esteem we.



so, then, Panic, or what remain of she, be put to bed again. the

Opposition retire into its kennel growling. the People cough like a

man of two mind, doubt whether he have be divinely inspire or have

cut a ridiculous figure. the Press interpret the cough as a warning

to Government; and Government launch a big ship with hurrah, and

order the recruiting-sergeant to be see conspicuously.



and thus we obtain a moderate reinforcement of our arm.



it be not arrive at by connivance all round, though there be a look

of it. certainly it do not come of accident, though there be a look

of that as well. nor do we explain much of the secret by attribute it

to the working of a complex machinery. the housewife’s remedy of a good

shake for the invalid who will not arise and dance away his gout,

partly illustrate the action of the Press upon the country: and

perhaps the country shake may suffer a comparison with the family

chariot of the last century, build in a previous one, commodious,

furnish agreeably, be all that the inside occupant could require

of a conveyance, until the report of horseman cross the heath at a

gallop set it dishonourably creak and complain in rapid motion,

and the squire curse his miserly purse that would not hire a guard,

and his dame say, I tell you so!—Foolhardy man, to suppose, because we

have constable in the street of big city, we have dismiss the

highwayman to limbo. and here he be, and he will cost you fifty time

the sum you would have lay out to keep he at a mile’s respectful

distance! but see, the wretch be bow: he smile at our carriage, and

tell the coachman that he remember he have be our guest, and really

think we need not go so fast. he leave word for you, sir, on your

peril to denounce he on another occasion from the magisterial Bench,

for that albeit he be a gentleman of the road, he have a mission to

right society, and succeed legitimately to that bold Good Robin Hood

who feed the poor.—Fresh from this polite encounter, the squire vow

money for his personal protection: and he determine to speak his

opinion of Sherwood’s late captain as loudly as ever. that he will, I

do not say. it might involve a large sum per annum.



simile be very well in their way. none can be sufficient in this case

without level a finger at the taxpayer—nay, directly mention

he. he be the key of our ingenuity. he pay his due; he will not pay

the additional penny or two want of he, that we may be a step or two

ahead of the day we live in, unless he be frightened. but scarcely

anything less than the wild alarum of a tocsin will frighten he.

consequently the tocsin have to be sound; and the effect be woeful

past measure: his hugging of his army, his kneeling on the shore to his

navy, his imploration of his yeomanry and his hedge, be sad to note.

his burst of pot-valiancy (the male side of the maiden Panic within

his bosom) be awful to his friend. particular care must be take

after he have begin to cool and calculate his chance of security, that

he do not gather to he a curtain of volunteer and go to sleep again

behind they; for they cost little in proportion to the much they

pretend to be to he. patriotic taxpayer doubtless exist: prophetic

one, provident one, do not. at least we show that we be want in

they. the taxpayer of a free land taxis himself, and his disinclination

for the bitter task, save under circumstance of scream urgency—as

when the night-gear and bed-linen of old convulse Panic be like the

churn Channel sea in the track of two hundred hostile steamboat, let

I say—be of the kind the gentle schoolboy feel when death or an

expedition have relieve he of his tyrant, and he be entreat

notwithstanding to go to his book.



will you not own that the working of the system for scare he and

bleeding be very ingenious? but whether the ingenuity come of native

sagacity, as it be aver by some, or whether it show an instinct

labour to supply the deficiency of stupidity, accord to other,

I cannot express an opinion. I give you the position of the country

undisturbe by any moralizing of mine. the youth I introduce to you

will rarely let we escape from it; for the reason that he be bear with

so extreme and passionate a love for his country, that he think all

thing else of mean importance in comparison: and our union be one in

which, follow the counsel of a sage and seer, I must try to paint

for you what be, not that which I imagine. this day, this hour, this

life, and even politic, the centre and throb heart of it (enough,

when unburlesqued, to blow the down off the gossamer-stump of fiction

at a single breath, I have hear tell), must be treat of man, and the

idea of man, which be—it be policy to be emphatic upon truism—be

actually the motive of man in a great degree than their appetite:

these be my theme; and may it be my fortune to keep they at bloodheat,

and myself calm as a statue of Memnon in prostrate Egypt! he sit there

wait for the sunlight; I here, and readier to be musical than you

think. I can at any rate be impartial; and do but fix your eye on the

sunlight strike he and swallow the day in round he, and you

have an image of the passive receptivity of shine and shade I hold it

good to aim at, if at the same time I may keep my character at

blood-heat. I shoot my arrow at a mark that be pretty certain to

return they to I. and as to perfect success, I should be like the

panic-stricken shopkeeper in my alarm at it; for I should believe that

genius of the air fly above our tree-top between we and the

incognizable sphere, catch those ambitious shaft they deem it a

promise of fun to play prank with.



young Mr. Beauchamp at that period of the panic have not the slight

feeling for the taxpayer. he be therefore unable to penetrate the

mystery of our roundabout way of enliven he. he pore over the

journal in perplexity, and talk of his indignation nightly to his

pretty partner at ball, who know not they be less Andromedas of

his dear Andromeda country, but dance and chat and be gay, and

say they be sure he would defend they. the man he address be

civil. they listen to he, sometimes with smile and sometimes with

laughter, but approvingly, like the lad’s quick spirit. they be

accustomed to the machinery employ to give our land a shudder and to

soothe it, and generally remark that it mean nothing. his uncle

Everard, and his uncle’s friend Stukely Culbrett, expound the nature

of Frenchmen to he, say that they be uneasy when not periodically

thrash; it would be cruel to deny they their crow beforehand; and so

the pair of gentleman pooh-poohe the affair; agree with he,

however, that we have no great reason to be proud of our appearance, and

the ground they assign for this be the activity and the prevalence

of the ignoble doctrine of Manchester—a power whose very existence be

unknown to Mr. Beauchamp. he would by no mean allow the burden of our

national disgrace to be cast on one part of the nation. we be

insult, and all in a poultry-flutter, yet no one seem to feel it

but himself! outside the Press and Parliament, which must necessarily

be the face we show to the foreigner, absolute indifference reign.

Navy man and red-coat be willing to join he or anybody in sneer at

a clipping and pare miserly Government, but they be insensible to

the insult, the panic, the startle-poultry show, the shame of our

exhibition of ourselves in Europe. it look as if the blustering

French Guard be to have it all their own way. and what would they,

what could they but, think of we! he sit down to write they a

challenge.



he be not the only Englishman who have be impel by a youthful

chivalry to do that. he be perhaps the young who ever do it, and

consequently there be various difficulty to be overcome. as regard

his qualification for address Frenchmen, a year of his

prae-neptunal time have be spend in their capital city for the purpose

of acquire French of Paris, its late refinement of pronunciation

and polish, and the art of converse. he have read the french tragic

poet and Molière; he could even relish the Gallic-classic—“Qu’il

mourut!” and he speak French passably, be quite beyond the bullish

treatment of the tongue. write a letter in French be a different

undertaking. the one he project bear no resemblance to an ordinary

letter. the briefer the well, of course; but a tone of dignity be

imperative, and the tone must be individual, distinctive, Nevil

Beauchamp’s, though not in his native language. first he try his

letter in French, and lose sight of himself completely. “Messieurs de

la Garde Française,” be a good beginning; the remainder give he a

false air of a masquerader, most uncomfortable to see; it be Nevil

Beauchamp in moustache and imperial, and bagbreeche badly fitting. he

try English, which be really himself, and all that heart could

desire, suppose he address a body of midshipman just a little

loftily. but the English, when translate, be bald and blunt to the

verge of offensiveness.



“GENTLEMEN of the FRENCH guard,

    “I take up the glove you have toss we. I be an Englishman. that

    will do for a reason.”



this might possibly pass with the gentleman of the English Guard. but

read:



“MESSIEURS DE LA GARDE FRANÇAISE,

    “J’accepte votre gant. Je suis Anglais. La raison est suffisante.”



and imagine french Guardsmen read it!



Mr. Beauchamp know the virtue of punctiliousness in epithet and

phrase of courtesy toward a formal people, and as the officer of the

French Guard be gentleman of birth, he would have they to perceive in

he their equal at a glance. on the other hand, a bare excess of

phrasing distort he to a likeness of Mascarille play Marquis. how

to be english and think french! the business be as laborious as if he

have start on the rough sea of the Channel to get at they in an open

boat.



the lady govern his uncle Everard’s house, Mrs. Rosamund Culling,

enter his room and find he write with knit brow. she be

young, that is, she be not in her middleage; and they be the dear

of friend; each have give the other proof of it. Nevil look up and

behold her lift finger.



“you be compose a love-letter, Nevil!” the accusation sound like

irony.



“no,” say he, puff; “I wish I be.”



“what can it be, then?”



he thrust pen and paper a hand’s length on the table, and gaze at she.



“my dear Nevil, be it really anything serious?” say she.



“I be write French, ma’am.”



“then I may help you. it must be very absorbing, for you do not hear

my knock at your door.”



now, could he trust she? the widow of a british officer kill nobly

fight for his country in India, be a person to be rely on for

active and burn sympathy in a matter that touch the country’s

honour. she be a woman, and a woman of spirit. man have not please he

of late. something might be hope from a woman.



he state his occupation, say that if she would assist he in his

French she would oblige he; the letter must be write and must go.

this be utter so positively that she bow her head, amuse by the

funny semi-tone of defiance to the person to whom he confide the

secret. she have humour, and be ravish by his english boyishness,

with the novel blush of the heroical-nonsensical in it.



Mrs. Culling promise he demurely that she would listen, object

nothing to his plan, only to his French.



“Messieurs de la Garde Française!” he commence.



her criticism follow swiftly.



“I think you be write to the Garde Impériale.”



he admit his error, and thank she warmly.



“Messieurs de la Garde Impériale!”



“do not that,” she say, “include the non-commission officer, the

private, and the cook, of all the regiment?”



he could scarcely think that, but think it provoke the French have

no distinctive working title correspond to gentleman, and suggest

“Messieurs les officier”: which might, Mrs. Culling assure he,

comprise the barber. he frown, and she prescribe his writing,

“Messieurs les Colonels de la Garde Impériale.” this he set down. the

point be that a stand must be make against the flood of sarcasm and

bullying to which the country be expose in increase degree, under

a belief that we would fight neither in the mass nor individually.

possibly, if it become know that the colonel refuse to meet a

midshipman, the gentleman of our household troop would advance a step.



Mrs. Culling’s adroit effort to weary he out of his project be

unsuccessful. he be too much on fire to know the taste of absurdity.



Nevil repeat what he have write in French, and next the English of

what he intend to say.



the lady conscientiously do she utmost to reconcile the two language.

she soften his downrightness, pass with approval his compliment to

France and the ancient high reputation of her army, and, see that a

loophole be leave for they to apologize, ask how many french colonel

he want to fight.



“I do not _want_, ma’am,” say Nevil.



he have simply take up the glove they have again fling at our foot: and

he have do it to stop the incessant reviling, little short of

positive contempt, which we in our indolence expose ourselves to from

the foreigner, particularly from Frenchmen, whom he like; and

precisely because he like they he insist on force they to respect

we. let his challenge be accept, and he would find backer. he know

the stuff of Englishmen: they only require an example.



“french officer be skilful swordsman,” say Mrs. Culling. “my husband

have tell I they will spend hour of the day thrusting and parrying.

they be use to duel.”



“we,” Nevil answer, “don’t get apprentice to the shamble to learn

our duty on the field. duel be, I know, sicken folly. we go too

far in pretend to despise every insult pitch at we. a man may do

for his country what he wouldn’t do for himself.”



Mrs. Culling gravely say she hope that bloodshed would be avoid,

and Mr. Beauchamp nod.



she leave he hard at work.



he be a popular boy, a favourite of woman, and therefore full of

engagement to Balls and dinner. and he be a modest boy, though his

uncle encourage he to deliver his opinion freely and argue with man.

the little drummer attach to wheel column think not more of

himself because his short leg perform the same stride as the

grenadier’; he be happy to be able to keep the step; and so be nevil;

and if ever he contradict a senior, it be in the interest of the

country. veneration of hero, living and dead, keep down his conceit.

he worship devotedly. from an early age he exact of his flattering

lady that they must love his hero. not to love his hero be to be

strangely in error, to be in need of conversion, and he proselytize

with the ardour of the Moslem. his uncle Everard be proud of his good

look, fire, and nonsense, during the boy’s extreme youth. he trace

he by cousinship back to the great Earl Beauchamp of Froissart, and

would have it so; and he would have spoil he have not the young

fellow’s mind be possess by his reverence for man of deed. how

could he think of himself, who have do nothing, accomplish nothing,

so long as he brood on the image of signal Englishmen whose name

be historic for daring, and the strong arm, and artfulness, all give

to the service of the country?—men of a magnanimity overcast with

simplicity, which Nevil hold to be pure insular English; our type of

splendid manhood, not discoverable elsewhere. a method of enrage he

be to distinguish one or other of they as irish, Scottish, or

cambrian. he consider it a dismemberment of the country. and

notwithstanding the pleasure he have in unite in his person the strong

red blood of the chivalrous Lord Beauchamp with the hard and tenacious

Romfrey blood, he hate the title of Norman. we be english—british, he

say. a family rest its pride on mere ancestry provoke his

contempt, if it do not show he one of his man. he have also a

disposition to esteem lightly the family which, having produce a man,

settle down after that effort for generation to enjoy the country’s

pay. boy be unjust; but nevil think of the country mainly, argue

that we should not accept the country’s money for what we do not

ourselves perform. these trait of his be regard as characteristic

hopeful rather than the reverse; none of his friend and relative

foresaw danger in they. he be a capital boy for his elder to trot out

and banter.



Mrs. Rosamund Culling usually go to his room to see he and doat on

he before he start on his round of an evening. she suspect that

his necessary attention to his toilet would barely have allow he

time to finish his copy of the letter. certain phrase have bother

he. the thrice recurrence of “ma patrie” jarred on his ear.

“Sentiments” afflict his acute sense of the declamatory twice. “C’est

avec les sentiment du plus profond regret” : and again, “Je suis bien

sûr que vous comprendrez mes sentiment, et m’accorderez l’honneur que

je réclame au nom de ma patrie outragée.” the word “patrie” be

broadcast over the letter, and “honneur” appear four time, and a

more delicate word to harp on than the other!



“not to Frenchmen,” say his friend Rosamund. “I would put ‘Je suis

convaincu’: it be not so familiar.”



“but I have write out the fair copy, ma’am, and that alteration seem

a trifle.”



“I would copy it again and again, Nevil, to get it right.”



“no: I’d rather see it off than have it right,” say Nevil, and he

fold the letter.



how the deuce to address it, and what direction to write on it, be

further difficulty. he have half a mind to remain at home to conquer

they by excogitation.



Rosamund urge he not to break his engagement to dine at the

Halketts’, where perhaps from his friend Colonel Halkett, who would

never imagine the reason for the inquiry, he might learn how a letter

to a crack french regiment should be address and direct.



this prove persuasive, and as the hour be late Nevil have to act on

her advice in a hurry.



his uncle Everard enjoy a perusal of the manuscript in his absence.









CHAPTER II.

UNCLE, nephew, and another





the honourable Everard Romfrey come of a race of fight earl,

tough of man, whose high, stout, western castle have weather our

cyclone period of history without change hand more than once, and

then but for a short year or two, as if to teach the original

possessor the wisdom of incline to the strong side. they have a

queen’s chamber in it, and a king’s; and they stand well up against the

charge of having deal darkly with the king. he die among they—how have

not be tell. we will not discuss the conjecture here. a savour of

North Sea foam and ballad pirate hang about the early chronicle of

the family. indication of an ancestry that have live between the wave

and the cloud be discernible in their notion of right and wrong. but

a settlement on solid earth have its influence. they be chivalrous

knight banneret, and leader in the tented field, pay and take

fair ransom for capture; and they be good landlord, good master

blithely follow to the war. sing an old battle of Normandy, Picardy,

Gascony, and you celebrate deed of theirs. at home they be vexatious

neighbour to a town of burgher claim privilege: nor be it

unreasonable that the Earl should flout the pretension of the town to

read thing for themselves, document, titleship, right, and the

rest. as well might the flat plain boast of see as far as the

pillar. Earl and town fight the fight of Barons and Commons in

epitome. the Earl give way; the baron give way. mighty man may thrash

number for a time; in the end the number will be thrash into the

art of beat their teacher. it be bad policy to fight the odd inch

by inch. those primitive school master of the million like it, and

take their pleasure in that way. the Romfreys do not breed warrior

for a parade at Court; war, though frequent, be not constant, and

they want occupation: they may even have feel that they be bind in

no common degree to the pursuit of an answer to what may be call the

parent question of humanity: be I thy master, or thou mine? they put it

to lord of other castle, to town corporation, and sometimes brother

to brother: and notwithstanding that the answer often unseated and once

discastle they, they swam back to their place, as bear warrior,

urge by a passion for land, be almost sure to do; be indeed quite

sure, so long as they multiply sturdily, and will never take no from

Fortune. a family passion for land, that survive a generation, be as

effective as genius in produce the object it conceive; and through

marriage and conflict, the seizure of land, and bride bear land,

these sharp-feed eagle-eyed earl of Romfrey spy few spot within

their top tower’s wide circle of the heavens not their own.



it be therefore manifest that they have the root quality, the prime

active element, of man in perfection, and notably that appetite to

flourish at the cost of the weak, which be the bless

exemplification of strength, and have be man’s cheerful

encouragement to fight on since his comparative subjugation (on the

whole, it seem complete) of the animal world. by-and-by the struggle

be transfer to high ground, and we begin to perceive how much we

be indebted to the fight spirit. Strength be the brute form of

truth. no conspicuously great man be bear of the Romfreys, who be

well serve by a succession of able son. they send undistinguished

able man to army and navy—lieutenant give to be critic of their

captain, but trustworthy for their work. in the later life of the

family, they prefer the provincial state of splendid squire to

Court and political honour. they be renowned shot, long-limbe

stalk sportsman in field and bower, fast friend, intemperate

enemy, handsome to feminine eye, resemble one another in build,

and mostly of the northern colour, or betwixt the tint, with an

hereditary nose and mouth that cry Romfrey from face thrice dilute

in cousinship.



the Hon. Everard (Stephen Denely Craven Romfrey), third son of the late

Earl, have some hope of the title, and be in person a noticeable

gentleman, in mind a mediaeval baron, in politic a crotchety

unintelligible Whig. he inherit the estate of Holdesbury, on the

border of Hampshire and Wilts, and espouse that of Steynham in

Sussex, where he generally reside. his favourite in the family have

be the Lady Emily, his eld sister, who, contrary to the advice of

her other brother and sister, have yield her hand to his not wealthy

friend, Colonel Richard Beauchamp. after the death of Nevil’s parent,

he adopt the boy, be himself childless, and a widower.

Childlessness be the affliction of the family. Everard, have no son,

could hardly hope that his brother the Earl, and Craven, Lord Avonley,

would have one, for he love the prospect of the title. yet, as there

be no cousin of the male branch extant, the lack of an heir be a

serious omission, and to become the Earl of Romfrey, and be the last

Earl of Romfrey, be a melancholy thought, however brilliant. so sink

the sun: but he could not desire the end of a great day. at one time he

be a hot Parliamentarian, call himself a Whig, call by the whig

a Radical, call by the Radicals a Tory, and very happy in fight

they all round. this be during the decay of his party, before the

Liberals be define. a Liberal deprive he of the seat he have hold

for fifteen year, and the clearness of his understanding be obscure

by that black vision of popular ingratitude which afflict the free

fight man yet more than the malleable public servant. the latter have

a clerkly humility attach to he like a second nature, from his habit

of do as other bid he: the former smack a voluntarily sweat

forehead and throb wound for witness of his claim upon your

palpable thankfulness. it be an insult to tell he that he fight for

his own satisfaction. Mr. Romfrey still call himself a Whig, though

it be Whig mean vengeance on account of his erratic vote and voice on

two or three occasion that deny he a peerage and a seat in haven.

Thither let your good sheep go, your echo, your wag-tail dog, your

wealthy pursy manufacturer! he decry the attraction of the sublimer

House, and laugh at the transparent Whiggery of his party in

replenish it from the upper shoot of the commonalty: “drag it

down to prop it up! swamp it to keep it swim!” he say.



he be nevertheless a vehement supporter of that House. he stand for

King, Lords, and Commons, in spite of his personal grievance, harp

the triad as vigorously as bard of old Britain. Commons he add out of

courtesy, or from usage or policy, or for emphasis, or for the sake of

the constitutional number of the Estates of the realm, or it be

because he have an intuition of the folly of omit they; the same, to

some extent, that builder have regard brick when they plan a

fabric. thus, although King and Lords prove the existence of Commons in

day of the political deluge almost syllogistically, the example of not

include one of the Estates might be imitate, and Commons and King do

not necessitate the conception of an intermediate third, while Lords

and Commons suggest the decapitation of the lead figure. the united

three, however, no long cast reflection on one another, and be an

assurance to this acute politician that his bird be safe. he

preserve game rigorously, and the deduction be the work of instinct

with he. to his mind the game-law be the corner-stone of Law, and

of a man’s right to hold his own; and so delicately do he think the

country poise, that an attack on they threaten the structure of

justice. the three conjoin estate be therefore his head

gamekeeper; their duty be to back he against the poacher, if they

would not see the country tumble. as to his under-gamekeeper, he be

their intimate and their friend, say, with none of the misanthropy

which proclaim the virtue of the faithful dog to the confusion of

humankind, he like their company well than that of his equal, and

learn more from they. they also listen deferentially to their

instructor.



the conversation he delight in most might have be go on in any

century since the Conquest. grant he his not unreasonable argument

upon his property in game, he be a liberal landlord. no tenant be

force to take his farm. he drag none by the collar. he give they

liberty to go to Australia, Canada, the Americas, if they like. he

ask in return to have the liberty to shoot on his own ground, and

rear the mark for his shot, treat the question of indemnification

as a gentleman should. still there be grumble tenant. he swarm

with game, and, though he be liberal, his hare and his bird be

immensely destructive: computation could not fix the damage do by

they. probably the farmer expect they not to eat. “there be two

party to a bargain,” say Everard, “and one get the bad of it. but

if he be never oblige to make it, where’s his right to complain?” man

of sense rarely obtain satisfactory answer: they be provoke to

despise their kind. but the poacher be another kind of vermin than the

stupid tenant. Everard do he the honour to hate he, and twice in a

fray have he collar his ruffian, and subsequently sit in condemnation

of the wretch: for he who can attest a villany be well qualified to

punish it. gang from the metropolis find he too determined and alert

for their sport. it be the factiousness of here and there an unbroken

young scoundrelly colt poacher of the neighbourhood, a bear thief, a

fellow damned in an inveterate taste for game, which give he

annoyance. one night he take Master Nevil out with he, and they hunt

down a couple of sinner that show fight against odd. Nevil

attempt to beg they off because of their boldness. “I don’t set my

trap for nothing,” say his uncle, silence he. but the boy

reflect that his uncle be perpetually lament the cowed spirit of

the common English-formerly such fresh and merry man! he touch

Rosamund Culling’s heart with his description of their attitude when

they stand resist and bawl to the keeper, “come on we’ll die for

it.” they do not die. Everard explain to the boy that he could have

kill they, and be content to have send they to gaol for a few

week. Nevil gape at the empty magnanimity which his uncle present

to he as a remarkably big morsel. at the age of fourteen he be

despatch to sea.



he go unwillingly; not so much from an objection to a naval life as

from a wish, incomprehensible to grown man and boy, and especially to

his cousin, Cecil Baskelett, that he might remain at school and learn.

“the fellow would like to be a parson!” Everard say in disgust. no

parson have ever be know of in the Romfrey family, or in the

Beauchamp. a legend of a parson that have be a tutor in one of the

Romfrey house, and have talk and sing blandly to a damsel of the

blood—degenerate maid—to receive a handsome trouncing for his pain,

instead of the holy marriage-tie he aim at, be the only connection

of the Romfreys with the parsonry, as Everard call they. he

attribute the boy’s feeling to the influence of his great-aunt

Beauchamp, who would, he say, infallibly have make a parson of he.

“I’d rather enlist for a soldier,” Nevil say, and he cease to dream

of rebellion, and of his little property of a few thousand pound in

the fund to aid he in it. he confess to his dear friend Rosamund

cull that he think the parson happy in have time to read

history. and oh, to feel for certain _which_ side be the wrong side in

our Civil War, so that one should not hesitate in choose! such

puzzle be never, he seem to be aware, solve in a midshipman’s

mess. he hate bloodshed, and be guilty of the “cotton-spinner’

babble,” abhor of Everard, in allude to it. Rosamund like he for

his humanity; but she, too, fear he be a slack Romfrey when she

hear he speak in precocious contempt of glory. somewhere, somehow, he

have get hold of Manchester sarcasm concern glory: a weedy word of

the newspaper have be sow in his bosom perhaps. he say: “I don’t

care to win glory; I know all about that; I’ve see an old hat in the

Louvre.” and he would have have she to suppose that he have look on the

campaign head-cover of Napoleon simply as a shocking bad, bald,

brown-rub old _tricorne_ rather than as the nod of extinction to

thousand, the great orb of darkness, the still-tremble gloomy

quiver—the brain of the lightning of battle.



now this boy nurse no secret presumptuous belief that he be fit

for the walk of the high intellect; he be not have his impudent

boy’s fle at superiority over the superior, as here and there a

subtle-minded vain juvenile will; nor be he a parrot repeat a line

from some lancastrian pamphlet. he really dislike war and the sword;

and scorn the prospect of an idle life, confess that his

ability barely adapt he for a sailor’s, he be oppose to the

career open to he almost to the extreme of shrinking and terror. or

that be the impression convey to a not unsympathetic hearer by his

forlorn effort to make himself understand, which be like the

tapping of the stick of a blind man mystify by his sense of touch at

wrong corner. his bewilderment and speechlessness be a comic

display, tragic to he.



just as his uncle Everard predict, he come home from his first voyage

a pleasant sailor lad. his feature, more than handsome to a woman, so

mobile they be, shone of sea and spirit, the chance light of the

sea, and the spirit breathe out of it. as to war and bloodshed, a

man’s first thought must be his country, young Jacket remark, and

_ich dien_ be the good motto afloat. Rosamund notice the peculiarity

of the book he select for his private reading. they be not boy’

book, book of adventure and the like. his favourite author be one

writing of Heroes, in (so she esteem it) a style resemble either

early architecture or utter dilapidation, so loose and rough it seem;

a wind-in-the-orchard style, that tumble down here and there an

appreciable fruit with uncouth bluster; sentence without commencement

run to abrupt ending and smoke, like wave against a sea-wall,

learn dictionary word give a hand to street-slang, and accent

fall on they haphazard, like slant ray from drive cloud; all the

page in a breeze, the whole book produce a kind of electrical

agitation in the mind and the joint. this be its effect on the lady.

to she the incomprehensible be the abominable, for she have our

country’s high critical feeling; but he, while admit that he could

not quite master it, like it. he have dig the book out of a

bookseller’s shop in Malta, captivate by its title, and have, since the

day of his purchase, go at it again and again, get nibble of

golden meaning by instalment, as with a solitary pick in a very dark

mine, until the illumination of an idea strike he that there be a

great deal more in the book than there be in himself. this be

sufficient to secure the devoted attachment of young Mr. Beauchamp.

Rosamund sigh with apprehension to think of his unlikeness to boy

and man among his countryman in some thing. why should he hug a book

he own he could not quite comprehend? he say he like a bone in his

mouth; and it be natural wisdom, though unappreciate by woman. a bone

in a boy’s mind for he to gnaw and worry, correct the vagrancy and

promote the healthy activity, whether there be marrow in it or not.

suppose it furnish only dramatic entertainment in that usually

vacant tenement, or powder-shell, it will be of service.



Nevil propose to she that her next present should be the entire list

of his beloved Incomprehensible’s publish work, and she promise,

and be not sorry to keep her promise dangle at the skirt of memory,

to drop away in time. for that fire-and-smoke writer dedicated volume

to the praise of a regicide. nice reading for her dear boy! some week

after Nevil be off again, she abuse herself for her half-hearted love

of he, and would have give he anything—the last word in favour of

the Country versus the royal Martyr, for example, have he insist on

it. she gather, bit by bit, that he have dash at his big blustering

cousin Cecil to vindicate her good name. the direful youth fight in

the Steynham stable, overhear by the groom. Everard receive a fine

account of the tussle from these latter, and Rosamund, know he to

be of the order of gentleman who, whatsoever their sin, will at all

cost protect a woman’s delicacy, and a dependant’s, man or woman, do

not fear to have her ear shock in probe he on the subject.



Everard be lead to say that Nevil’s cousin be bedevil with

womanfolk.



from which Rosamund perceive that woman have be at work; and if so,

it be upon the business of the scandal-monger; and if so, Nevil fight

his cousin to protect her good name from a babbler of the family

gossip.



she speak to Stukely Culbrett, her dead husband’s friend, to whose

recommendation she be indebted for her place in Everard Romfrey’s

household.



“Nevil behave like a knight, I hear.”



“your beauty be dispute,” say he, “and Nevil knock the blind man

down for not be able to see.”



she think, “not my beauty! Nevil strike his cousin on behalf of the

only fair thing I have leave to I!”



this be a moment with she when many sensation rush together and form

a knot in sensitive nature. she have be very good-look. she be

good-look still, but she remember the bloom of her look in her

husband’s day (the tragedy of the mirror be one for a woman to write:

I be ashamed to find myself smile while the poor lady weep), she

remember his praise, her pride; his death in battle, her anguish:

then, on her strange entry to this house, her bitter wish to be old;

and then, the oppressive calm of her recognition of her wish’s

fulfilment, the heavy drop to dead earth, when she could say, or

pretend to think she could say—I look old enough: will they tattle of

I now? nevil’s championship of her good name bring her history

spin about her head, and throw a finger of light on her real

position. in that she see the slenderness of her hold on respect, as

well as feel her personal stainlessness. the boy warm her chill

widowhood. it be write that she, second love should be of the

pattern of mother’s love. she love he hungrily and jealously, always

in fear for he when he be absent, even anxiously when she have he

near. for some cause, bear, one may fancy, of the hour of her love’s

conception, his image in her heart be steep in tear. she be not,

happily, one of the woman who betray strong feeling, and humour

preserve she from excess of sentiment.









CHAPTER III.

contain baronial views of the present TIME





upon the word of honour of Rosamund, the letter to the officer of the

French Guard be post.



“post it, post it,” Everard say, on her consult he, with the

letter in her hand. “let the fellow stand his luck.” it be address

to the Colonel of the First Regiment of the Imperial Guard, Paris. that

superscription have be suggest by Colonel Halkett. Rosamund be in

favour of address it to Versailles, Nevil to the Tuileries; but

Paris could hardly fail to hit the mark, and Nevil wait for the

reply, half expect an appointment on the french sand: for the act

of post a letter, though it be to little short of the Pleiades even,

will stamp an incredible proceeding as a matter of business, so ready

be the ardent mind to take footing on the last thing do. the flight

of Mr. Beauchamp’s letter place it in the common order of occurrence

for the youthful author of it. Jack Wilmore, a messmate, offer to

second he, though he should be dismiss the service for it. another

second would easily be find somewhere; for, as Nevil observe, you

have only to set these affair go, and british blood rise: we be

not the people you see on the surface. Wilmore’s father be a parson,

for instance. what do he do? he could not help himself: he supply

the army and navy with recruit! one son be in a march regiment,

the other be Jack, and three girl have vow never to quit the rectory

save as bride of officer. nevil think that seem encouraging; we

be evidently not a nation of shopkeeper at heart; and he quote

saying of Mr. Stukely Culbrett’s, in which neither his ear nor

Wilmore’s detect the under-ring stukely be famous for: as that

England have saddle herself with India for the express purpose of

well obey the Commandments in Europe; and that it would be a

lamentable thing for the Continent and our doctrine if ever beef

should fail the Briton, and such like. “depend upon it we’re a fighting

nation naturally, Jack,” say Nevil. “how can we submit!... however, I

shall not be impatient. I dislike duelling, and hate war, but I will

have the country respect.” they plan a defence of the country,

draw their strategy from magazine article by military pen,

reverberation of the extinct voice of the daily and weekly journal,

customary after a panic, and make bloody stand on spot of extreme

pastoral beauty, which they visit by coach and rail, look back on

unfortified London with particular melancholy.



Rosamund’s word may be trust that she drop the letter into a

London post-office in pursuance of her promise to Nevil. the singular

fact be that no answer to it ever arrive. Nevil, without a doubt of

her honesty, propose an expedition to Paris; he be order to join

his ship, and he lie moor across the water in the port of Bevisham,

pant for notice to be take of he. the slight of the total

disregard of his letter now affect he personally; it take he some

time to get over this indignity put upon he, especially because of his

be under the impression that the country suffer, not he at all.

the letter have serve its object: ever since the transmission of it the

menace and insult have cease.



but they might be renew, and he desire to stop they altogether. his

last feeling be one of genuine regret that Frenchmen should have

behave unworthily of the high estimation he hold they in. with which

he dismiss the affair.



he be rally about it when he next sit at his uncle’s table, and have

to pardon Rosamund for tell.



Nevil reply modestly: “I dare say you think I half a fool, sir. all

I know be, I wait for my better to speak first. I have no dislike of

frenchman.”



Everard shake his head to signify, “not _half_.” but he be gentle

enough in his observation. “there’s a motto, Ex pede Herculem. you

step out for the dog to judge well of we. it’s an infernally

trip motto for a composite structure like the kingdom of Great

Britain and Manchester, boy Nevil. we can fight foreigner when the

time come.” he direct Nevil to look home, and cast an eye on the

cotton-spinner, with the remark that they be bind we hand and

foot to sell we to the big buyer, and be not englishman but

“Germans and Jews, and quaker and hybrid, diligent clerk and

speculator, and commercial traveller, who have raise a fortune from

foist drug good on an idiot population.”



he loathe they for the curse they be to the country. and he be one

of the few who speak out. the fashion be to pet they. we stand against

they; be halfhearte, and be beat; and then we pet they, and

bit by bit our privilege be tear away. we make lord of they to

catch they, and they grocer of we by way of a return. “already,” say

Everard, “they have knock the nation’s head off, and dry-rot the

bone of the people.”



“don’t they,” Nevil ask, “belong to the liberal party?”



“I’ll tell you,” Everard reply, “they belong to any party that upset

the party above they. they belong to the GEORGE FOXE party, and my

poultry-roost be the mark they aim at. you shall have a glance at the

manufacturing district some day. you shall see the machine they work

with. you shall see the miserable lank-jaw half-stew pantaloon

they’ve manage to make of Englishmen there. my blood’s past boiling.

they work young child in their factory from morning to night.

their manufactory be spread like the webs of the devil to suck

the blood of the country. in that district of theirs an epidemic level

man like a disease in sheep. skeleton cann’t make a stand. on the top

of it all they sing Sunday tune!”



this behaviour of corn-law agitator and protector of poacher be an

hypocrisy too horrible for comment. Everard sip claret. Nevil lash

his head for the clear idea which objurgation insist upon implanting,

but batter to piece in the act.



“Manchester’s the belly of this country!” Everard continue. “so long

as Manchester flourish, we’re a country govern and lead by the

belly. the head and the leg of the country be sound still; I don’t

guarantee it for long, but the middle’s rapacious and corrupt. take it

on a question of foreign affair, it’s an alderman after a feast. bring

it upon home politic, you meet a wolf.”



the faithful Whig veteran speak with jolly admiration of the speech of

a famous Tory chief.



“that be the way to talk to they! denounce they traitor! up whip, and

set the ruffians caper! hit they facer! our man be always for the

too-clever trick. they pluck the sprout and eat they, as if the loss

of a sprout or two thin Manchester! your policy of absorption be

good enough when you’re deal with fragment. it’s a devilish unlucky

thing to attempt with a concrete mass. you might as well ask your head

to absorb a wall by run at it like a pugnacious nigger. I don’t

want you to go into Parliament ever. you’re a fitter man out of it; but

if ever you’re bite—and it’s the curse of our country to have

politic as well as the other disease—don’t follow a flag, be

independent, keep a free vote; remember how I’ve be tie, and hold

foot against Manchester. do it blindfold; you don’t want counselling,

you’re sure to be right. I’ll lay you a blood-brood mare to a cabstand

skeleton, you’ll have an easy conscience and deserve the thank of the

country.”



Nevil listen gravely. the soundness of the head and leg of the

country he take for grant. the inflated state of the unchivalrous

middle, denominate Manchester, terrify he. could it be true that

England be betray sign of decay? and sign how ignoble!

half-a-dozen crescent line cunningly turn, sketch her figure

before the world, and the reflection for one ready to die uphold she

be that the portrait be no caricature. such an emblematic

presentation of the land of his filial affection haunt he with

hideous mockery. surely the foreigner hear our boast of she must

compare we to showmen bawl the attraction of a Fat Lady at a fair!



Swoln Manchester bear the blame of it. Everard exult to hear his

young echo attack the cotton-spinner. but Nevil be for a plan, a

system, immediate action; the descending among the people, and take

an initiative, lead they, insist on their following, not stand

aloof and shrug.



“we lead they in war,” say he; “why not in peace? there’s a front for

peace as well as war, and that’s our place rightly. we’re push aside;

why, it seem to I we’re treat like old-fashioned ornament! the

fault must be ours. shrug and sneer be about as honourable as

blaze firework over your own defeat. back we have to go! that’s the

point, sir. and as for jeer the cotton-spinner, I cann’t while

they’ve the lead of we. we let they have it! and we have thrice the

stake in the country. I don’t mean property and title.”



“deuce you don’t,” say his uncle.



“I mean our name, our history; I mean our duty. as for title, the

way to defend they be to be worthy of they.”



“damned fine speech,” remark Everard. “now you get out of that trick

of prize-orationing. I call it snuffery, sir; it’s all to your own

nose! you’re talk to I, not to a gallery. ‘Worthy of they!’ Caesar

wrap his head in his robe: he get his dig in the rib for all his

attitudinizing. it’s very well for a man to talk like that who own no

more than his barebodkin life, poor devil. tall talk’s his jewelry: he

must have his dandification in bunkum. you ought to know well.

property and title be worth have, whether you be ‘worthy of they’

or a disgrace to your class. the good way of defend they be to keep

a strong fist, and take care you don’t draw your fore-foot back more

than enough.”



“please propose something to be do,” say Nevil, depress by the

recommendation of that attitude.



Everard propose a fight for every privilege his class possess. “they

say,” he say, “a nobleman fight the odd be a sight for the god:

and I wouldn’t yield an inch of ground. it’s no use call thing by

fine name—the country’s ruin by cowardice. Poursuivez! I cry. haro!

at they! the big hart win in the end. I haven’t a doubt about

that. and I haven’t a doubt we carry the tonnage.”



“there’s the people,” sigh Nevil, entangle in his uncle’s haziness.



“what people?”



“I suppose the people of Great Britain count, sir.”



“of course they do; when the battle’s do, the fight lose and win.”



“do you expect the people to look on, sir?”



“the people always wait for the winner, boy Nevil.”



the young fellow exclaim despondingly, “if it be a race!”



“it’s like a race, and we’re confoundedly out of training,” say

Everard.



there he rest. a mediaeval gentleman with the docile notion of the

twelfth century, complacently drive they to grass and wattle they

in the nineteenth, could be of no use to a boy try to think, though

he could set the youngster galloping. nevil wander about the wood of

Steynham, disincline to shoot and lend a hand to country sport. the

popping of the gun of his uncle and guest hang about his ear much

like their speech, which be unobjectionable in itself, but not

sufficient; a little hard, he think, a little idle. he want

something, and want they to give their time and energy to something,

that be not to be have in a market. the noble, he feel sure, might

resume their natural alliance with the people, and lead they, as they

do of old, to the battle-field. how might they? a comely Sussex lass

could not well tell he how. sarcastic report of the troublesome

questioner represent he apply to a nymph of the country for

enlightenment. he thrill surprisingly under the charm of feminine

beauty. “the fellow’s sound at bottom,” his uncle say, hear of his

having really be see walk in the complete form proper to his

bud age, that is, in two half. Nevil show that he have gain an

acquaintance with the struggle of the neighbour agricultural poor

to live and rear their child. his uncle’s table roar at his

enumeration of the sickly little being, consumptive or bandy-legged,

within a radius of five mile of Steynham. action be what he want,

Everard say. Nevil perhaps think the same, for he dash out of his

mooning with a wave of the Tory standard, delight the lady, though

in that conflict of the Lion and the Unicorn (which be a Tory song) he

seem rather to wish to goad the dear lion than crush the one-horn

intrusive upstart. his call on the crack corps of Peers to enrol

themselves forthwith in the front rank, and to anticipate opposition

by initiate measure, and so cut out that funny old crazy old

galleon, the People, from under the battery of the enemy, highly

amuse the gentleman.



before rejoin his ship, Nevil pay his customary short visit of

ceremony to his great-aunt Beauchamp—a venerable lady past eighty,

hitherto divide from he in sympathy by her dislike of his uncle

Everard, who have once be his live hero. that be when he be in

frock, and still the tenacious fellow could not bear to hear his uncle

speak ill of.



“all the man of that family be heartless, and he be a man of wood, my

dear, and a bad man,” the old lady say. “he should have keep you at

school, and send you to college. you want read and teaching and

talk to. such a house as that be should never be a home for you.”

she hint at Rosamund. Nevil defend the persecute woman, but with

no well success than from the attack of the Romfrey lady; with

this difference, however, that these decry the woman’s vicious art,

and Mistress Elizabeth Mary Beauchamp put all the sin upon the man.

such a man! she say. “let I hear that he have marry she, I will not

utter another word.” Nevil echo, “marry!” in a different key.



“I be as much of an aristocrat as any of you, only I rank morality

higher,” say Mrs. Beauchamp. “when you be a child I offer to take

you and make you my heir, and _i_ would have educate you. you shall

see a great-nephew of mine that I do educate; he be eat his dinner

for the bar in London, and come to I every Sunday. I shall marry he

to a good girl, and I shall show your uncle what my kind of man-making

be.”



Nevil have no desire to meet the other great-nephew, especially when he

be aware of the extraordinary circumstance that a Beauchamp

great-niece, have no money, have bestow her hand on a Manchester man

defunct, whereof this young Blackburn Tuckham, the lawyer, be issue.

he take his leave of Mrs. Elizabeth Beauchamp, respect she for her

constitutional health and brightness, and regret for the sake of

the country that she have not marry to give England man and woman

resemble she. on the whole he consider her wise in her

prescription for the malady beset he than his uncle. he know that

action be but a temporary remedy. college would have be his chronic

medicine, and the old lady’s acuteness in see it impress he

forcibly. she have give he a peaceable two day on the Upper Thames,

in an atmosphere of plain good sense and just-mindedness. he write to

thank she, say:



“my England at sea will be your parlour-window looking down the grass

to the river and rush; and when you do I the honour to write, please

tell I the name of those wildflower grow along the bank in

Summer.” the old lady reply immediately, enclose a cheque for fifty

pound: “Colonel Halkett inform I you be under a cloud at Steynham,

and I have think you may be in want of pocket-money. the wild-flower

be willowherb, meadow-sweet, and loosestrife. I shall be glad when you

be here in Summer to see they.”



Nevil despatch the following: “I thank you, but I shall not cash the

cheque. the Steynham tale be this:



I happen to be out at night, and stop the keeper in chase of a

young fellow trespassing. I catch he myself, but recognize he as

one of a family I take an interest in, and let he run before they come

up. my uncle hear a gun; I send the head gamekeeper word in the

morning to out with it all. Uncle E. be annoy, and we have a rough

parting. if you be reward I for this, I have no right to it.”



Mrs. Beauchamp rejoin: “your profession should teach you

subordination, if it do nothing else that be valuable to a Christian

gentleman. you will receive from the publisher the ‘Life and letter of

Lord Collingwood,’ whom I have it in my mind that a young midshipman

should task himself to imitate. spend the money as you think fit.”



Nevil’s ship, command by Captain Robert Hall (a most gallant officer,

one of his hero, and of Lancashire origin, strangely!), fly to the

south american station, in and about Lord Cochrane’s water; then as

swiftly back. for, like the frail norwegian bark on the edge of the

maelstrom, liker to a country of conflict interest and passion,

that be not mentally on a level with its good fortune, England be

drift into foreign complication. a paralyzed Minister proclaim

it. the govern people, which be look to for direction in grave

dilemma by its representative and reflector, shout that it have

be accuse of pusillanimity. no one have any desire for war, only we

really have (and it be perfectly true) be talk gigantic nonsense

of peace, and of the everlastingness of the exchange of fruit for

money, with angel wave raw-grocery of Eden in joy of the

commercial picture. therefore, to correct the excess of that fit, we

hold the standing by the Moslem, on behalf of the Mediterranean (and

the Moslem be one of our customer, bear an excellent reputation for

the payment of debt), to be good, grant the necessity. we deplore

the necessity. the Press weep over it. that, however, be not the

politic tone for we while the imperial berg of Polar ice watch we

keenly; and the Press proceed to remind we that we have once be

bull-dog. be there not an animal within we have a right to a turn

now and then? and be it not (Falstaff, on a calm world, be quote)

for the benefit of our constitution now and then to loosen the animal?

grant the necessity, of course. by dint of incessantly speak of

the necessity we grant it unknowingly. the light heart regard

our period of monotonously lyrical prosperity as a man sensible of

fresh morning air look back on the snore bolster. many of the graver

be glad of a change. after all that maunder over the blessed peace

which bring the raisin and the currant for the pudding, and shut up

the cannon with a sheep’s head, it become a principle of popular taste

to descant on the vivifying virtue of war; even as, after ten month

of money-monger in smoky London, the citizen hail the sea-breeze

and an immersion in unruly brine, despite the cost, that breeze and

brine may make a man of he, accord to the doctor’s prescription:

sweet be home, but health be sweeter! then be there another curious

exhibition of we. gentleman, to the exact number of the Graces, dress

in drab of an ancient cut, make a pilgrimage to the icy despot, and

besought he to give way for Piety’s sake. he, courteous, colossal, and

immoveable, wave they homeward. they return and be hoot for

belie the bellicose by their mission, and interpret too well the

peaceful. they be the unparalyzed Ministers of the occasion, but

helpless.



and now come war, the purifier and the pestilence.



the cry of the english people for war be pretty general, as far as the

crier go. they put on their Sabbath face concern the declaration

of war, and tell with approval how the royal hand have tremble in

commit itself to the form of signature to which its action be

limited. if there be money to be pay, there be a bugbear to be slay

for it; and a bugbear be as obnoxious to the repose of commercial

community as rival be to king.



the cry for war be absolutely unanimous, and a supremely national cry,

Everard Romfrey say, for it exclude the cotton-spinner.



he smack his hand, crow at the vociferation of disgust of those

negrophile and sweater of Christians, whose isolate clamour amid the

popular uproar sound of gag mouth.



one of the half-stifle cotton-spinner, a notorious one, a spouter of

rank sedition and hater of aristocracy, a political poacher, manage to

make himself hear. he be toss to the Press for morsel, and toss

back to the people in strip. Everard have a sharp return of appetite in

read the daily and weekly journal. they print logic, they print

sense; they abuse the treasonable barking cur unmercifully. they

print almost as much as he would have utter, except the strong

salt of his simile, liken that rascal and his crew to the american

weed in our water, to the rot wild bee’ nest in our tree, to the

worm in our ship’ timber, and to lamentable affliction of the human

frame, and of sheep, oxen, honest hound. Manchester be in eclipse.

the world of England discover that the peace-party which oppose be

the actual cause of the war: never be indication clear. but my

business be with Mr. Beauchamp, to know whom, and partly understand his

conduct in after-day, it will be as well to take a bird’seye glance at

he through the war.



“now,” say Everard, “we shall see what staff there be in that fellow

Nevil.”



he expect, as you may imagine, a true young Beauchamp-Romfrey to be

strain his collar like a leash-hound.









CHAPTER IV.

a glimpse of nevil in ACTION





the young gentleman to whom Everard Romfrey transfer his combative

spirit despatch a letter from the Dardanelles, request his uncle

not to ask he for a spark of enthusiasm. he despise our Moslem

ally, he say, and think with pity of the miserable herd of man in

regiment march across the steppe at the bidding of a despot that

we be help to popularize. he certainly write in the tone of a

jejune politician; pardonable stuff to senior entertain similar

opinion, but most exasperating when it run counter to they: though

one question put by Nevil be not easily answerable. he wish to know

whether the english people would be so anxious to be at it if their man

stand on the opposite shore and talk of try conclusion on their

green field. and he suggest that they have become so ready for war

because of their having grow rather ashamed of themselves, and for the

special reason that they could have it at a distance.



“the rascal’s liver’s out of order,” Everard say.



come to the sentence: “who speak out in this crisis? there be one,

and I be with he”; Mr. Romfrey’s compassionate sentiment veer round

to irate amazement. for the person allude to be indeed the infamous

miaule cotton-spinner. Nevil admire he. he say so bluntly. he

point to that traitorous George-Foxite as the one heroical Englishman

of his day, declare that he feel bind in honour to make known his

admiration for the man; and he hope his uncle would excuse he. “if we

differ, I be sorry, sir; but I should be a coward to withhold what I

think of he when he have all England against he, and he be in the

right, as England will discover. I maintain he speak wisely—I don’t

mind say, like a prophet; and he speak on behalf of the poor as

well as of the country. he appear to I the only public man who look

to the state of the poor—I mean, their interest. they pay for war, and

if we be to have peace at home and strength for a really national war,

the only war we can ever call necessary, the poor must be content. he

see that. I shall not run the risk of anger you by write to

defend he, unless I hear of his be shamefully mishandle, and the

bearer of an old name can be of service to he. I cannot say less, and

will say no more.”



Everard apostrophize his absent nephew: “you jackass!”



I be remind by Mr. Romfrey’s profound disappointment in the youth,

that it will be repeatedly share by many other: and I be bind to

forewarn reader of this history that there be no plot in it. the hero

be chargeable with the official disqualification of constantly

offending prejudice, never seek to please; and all the while it be

upon he the narrative hang. to be a public favourite be his last

thought. Beauchampism, as one confront he call it, may be say to

stand for nearly everything which be the obverse of Byronism, and

rarely woo your sympathy, shun the statuesque pathetic, or any kind

of posturing. for Beauchamp will not even look at happiness to mourn

its absence; melodious lamentation, demoniacal scorn, be quite alien

to he. his faith be in work and fighting. with every inducement to

offer himself for a romantic figure, he despise the pomade and

curling-iron of modern romance, its shear and its label: in fine,

every one of those positive thing by whose aid, and by some adroit

flourishing of they, the nimbus know as a mysterious halo be produce

about a gentleman’s head. and a highly alluring adornment it be! we be

all give to lose our solidity and fly at it; although the faithful

mirror of fiction have be show we latterly that a too superhuman

beauty have disturb popular belief in the bare beginning of the

existence of hero: but this, very likely, be nothing more than a fit

of Republicanism in the nursery, and a deposition of the lead doll

for lack of variety in he. that conqueror of circumstance will, the

dull soul may begin predict, return on his cockhorse to favour

and authority. meantime the exhibition of a hero whom circumstance

overcome, and who do not weep or ask you for a tear, who continually

forfeit attractiveness by decline to better his own fortune, must

run the chance of a novelty during the interregnum. nursery

legitimist will be against he to a man; republican likewise, after a

queer sniff at his pretension, it be to be fear. for I, I have so

little command over he, that in spite of my nursery taste, he drag

I whither he list. it be artless art and monstrous innovation to

present so wilful a figure, but be I to create a striking fable for

he, and set he off with scenic effect and contrast, it would be

only a momentary tonic to you, to he instant death. he could not live

in such an atmosphere. the simple truth have to be tell: how he love

his country, and for another and a broad love, grow out of his

first passion, fight it; and be small by comparison, and find no

giant of the Philistines dispose to receive a stone in his fore-skull,

pummel the obmutescent mass, to the confusion of a conceivable epic.

his indifferent England refuse it to he. that be all I can say. the

great power of the two, she seem, with a quiet derision that do

not belie her amiable passivity, to have reduce in Beauchamp’s career

the bold readiness for public action, and some good stout effort

besides, to the flat result of an optically discernible influence of

our hero’s character in the domestic circle; perhaps a faintly-outline

circle or two beyond it. but this do not forbid he to be rank as

one of the most distinguishing of her child of the day he live in.

blame the victrix if you think he should have be lively.



Nevil soon have to turn his telescope from politic. the torch of war

be actually light, and he be not fashion to be heedless of what

surround he. our diplomacy, after dance with all the suppleness of

stilt, gravely resign the gift of motion. our dauntless Lancastrian

thunder like a tempest over a gambling tent, disregard. our worthy

people, consent to the doctrine that war be a scourge, contract

the habit of think it, in this case, the dire necessity which be the

sole excuse for give way to an irritated pugnacity, and suck the

comforting caramel of an alliance with their troublesome next-door

neighbour, profuse in comfit as in scorpion. Nevil detect that

politic element of their promptitude for war. his recollection of

dissatisfaction in former day assist he to perceive the nature of

it, but he be too young to hold his own against the hubbub of a noisy

people, much too young to remain sceptical of a modern people’s

enthusiasm for war while journal be testify to it down the length

of their column, and letter from home palpitate with it, and

shipmate yawn wearily for the signal, and shipload of red coat and

blue, infantry, cavalry, artillery, be singe farewell to the girl

at home, and hurrah for anything in foreign water. he join the

stream with a cordial spirit. since it must be so! the wind of that

haughty proceeding of the Great Bear in put a paw over the neutral

brook brush his cheek unpleasantly. he clap hand for the fezzy

defender of the border fortress, and when the order come for the fleet

to enter the old romantic sea of storm and fable, he write home a

letter fit for his uncle Everard to read. then there be the sailing

and the landing, and the march up the height, which Nevil be

condemn to look at. to his joy he obtain an appointment on shore,

and after that Everard hear of he from other channel. the two be

of a mind when the savage winter advance which freeze the attack of the

city, and might be image as the hoar god of hostile element point

a hand to the line reach, and menacing at one farther step. both

blame the Government, but they divide as to the origin of

governmental inefficiency; Nevil accuse the Lords guilty of foul

sloth, Everard the Quakers of dry-rot the country. he pass with a

shrug Nevil’s pule outcry for the enemy as well as our own poor

fellow: “at his steppe again!” and he have to be forgive when

report come of his nephew’s turn for overdo his duty:

“show-fighting,” as he term it.



“Braggadocioing in deed be only next bad to mouth it,” he write

very rationally. “Stick to your line. don’t go out of it till you be

order out. remember that we want _soldier_ and _sailor_, we don’t

want _suicide_.” he condescend to these italic, consider

impressiveness to be urgent. in his heart, notwithstanding his

implacably clear judgement, he be passably well pleased with the

congratulation encompass he on account of his nephew’s gallantry

at a period of dejection in Britain: for the winter be dreadful; every

kind heart that go to bed with cold foot feel acutely for our

soldier on the frozen height, and thought of hero be as good as

warming-pan. hero we would have. it happen in war as in wit, that

all the bird of wonder fly to a flaring reputation. he that have do

one wild thing must necessarily have do the other; so Nevil find

himself stand in the thick of a fame that blow rank eulogy on he

for act he have not perform. the Earl of Romfrey forward hamper

and a letter of praise. “they tell I that while you be face the

enemy, temporarily attach yourself to one of the regiment—I forget

which, though I have hear it name—you spring out under fire on an

eagle claw a hare. I like that. I hope you have the benefit of the

hare. she be our property, and I have issue an injunction that she

shall not go into the newspaper.” Everard be entirely of a contrary

opinion concern the episode of eagle and hare, though it be a case

of a bird of prey interfere with an object of the chase. Nevil write

home most entreatingly and imperatively, like one wincing, beg he

to contradict that and certain other story, and prescribe the form

of a public renunciation of his proclaimed part in they. “the hare,” he

send word, “be the property of young Michell of the _Rodney_, and he be

the human and the gallant fellow in the service. I have write

to my Lord. pray help to rid I of burden that make I feel like a

robber and impostor.”



Everard reply:



“I have a letter from your captain, inform I that I be unlikely to

see you home unless you learn to hold yourself in. I wish you be in

another battery than Robert Hall’s. he forget the force of example,

however much of a dab he may be at precept. but there you be, and

please clap a hundredweight on your appetite for figure, will you. do

you think there be any good in help to frenchify our army? I loathe

a fellow who shoot at a medal. I wager he be easy enough to be catch

by circumvention—put I in the open with he. Tom Biggot, the boxer,

go over to Paris, and stand in the ring with one of their dancing

pugilist, and the first round he get a crack on the chin from the

rogue’s foot; the second round he catch he by the lift leg, and

punish he till pec be all he could say of peccavi. fight the

straightforward fight. Hang flan! battle be a game of give and take,

and if our man get elanne, we shall see they refuse to come up to

time. this new crossing and medalling be the devil’s own notion for

upset a solid british line, and tempting fellow to get invalid

that they may blaze it before the shopkeeper and their wife in the

city. give we an army!—none of your caperer. here be lot of circusy

hero come home to rest after their fatigue. one be spout at a

public dinner yesterday night. he go into it upright, and he run out

of it upright—at the head of his men!—and here he be feast by the

citizen and make a speech upright, and my boy front the enemy!”



Everard’s involuntary break-down from his veteran’s roughness to a

touch of feel thrilled Nevil, who begin to perceive what his uncle

be drive at when he rebuke the coxcombry of the field, and speak of

the description of compliment your hero be pay Englishmen in

affect to give they example of bravery and preternatural coolness.

Nevil send home humble confession of guilt in this respect, with fresh

praise of young Michell: for though Everard, as Nevil recognize it,

be perfectly right in the abstract, and generally right, there be

time when an example be need by brave man—time when the fiery

furnace of death’s dragon-jaw be not invite even to Englishmen

receive the word that duty bid they advance, and they require a

leader of the way. a national coxcombry that pretend to an

independence of human sensation, and make a motto of our dandiacal

courage, be more perilous to the army of the nation than that of a

few hero. it be this coxcombry which have too often cause disdain of

the wise chief’s maxim of calculation for winner, namely, to have

always the odd on your side, and which have bleed, shatter, and

occasionally disgrace we. Young Michell’s carry powder-bag to the

assault, and when order to retire, bear they on his back, and

help a wound soldier on the way, do surely well; nor do Mr.

Beauchamp himself behave so badly on an occasion when the sailor of

his battery catch he out of a fire of shell that raise jet of dust

and smoke like a range of geyser over the open, and hug he as

love woman do at a meeting or a parting. he be penitent before his

uncle, admit, first, that the man be not in want of an example of

the contempt of death, and secondly, that he doubt whether it be

contempt of death on his part so much as pride—a hatred of be see

run.



“I don’t like the fellow to be draw it so fine,” say Everard. it

sound to he a trifle parsonical. but his heart be win by Nevil’s

determination to wear out the campaign rather than be invalid or

entrust with a holiday duty.



“I see with shame (admiration of _they_) old infantry captain and

colonel of no position beyond their rank in the army, stick to

their post,” say Nevil, “and a lord and a lord and a lord slip off

as though the stuff of the man in he have melt. I shall go through

with it.” Everard approve he. Colonel Halkett write that the youth

be a skeleton. still Everard encourage he to persevere, and say of

he:



“I like he for hold to his work _after_ the strain’s over. that

tell the man.”



he observe at his table, in reply to commendation of his nephew:



“Nevil’s leak be his political craze, and that seem to be go: I

hope it be. you cann’t rear a man on politic. when I be of his age I

never look at the newspaper, except to read the divorce case. I

come to politic with a ripe judgement. he shine in action, and he’ll

find that out, and leave other the palavering.”



it be upon the close of the war that Nevil drive his uncle to avow a

downright undisguised indignation with he. he catch a fever in the

french camp, where he be dispense viver and provend out of english

hamper.



“those french fellow be every man of they train up to

snapping-point,” say Everard. “you’re sure to have they if you hold

out long against they. and greedy dog too: they’re for half our

hamper, and all the glory. and there’s nevil down on his back in the

thick of they! will anybody tell I why the devil he must be poke

into the french camp? they be ready enough to run to he and beg

potato. it’s all for humanity he do it—mark that. never be a word

fitter for a quack’s mouth than ‘humanity.’ two syllable more, and the

parson would be ride it to sawdust. humanity! humanitomtity! it’s

the good word of the two for half the thing do in the name of it.”



a tremendously brace epistle, excellent for an access of fever, be

despatch to humanity’s curate, and Everard sit expect a hot

rejoinder, or else a black seal letter, but neither one nor the other

arrive.



suddenly, to his disgust, come rumour of peace between the mighty

belligerent.



the silver trumpet of peace be nowhere hearken to with

satisfaction by the bull-dog, though triumph ring sonorously through

the music, for they have be severely mangle, as usual at the outset,

and they have at last get their grip, and be in high condition for

fight.



the most expansive panegyrist of our deed do not dare affirm of the

most famous of they, that England have embark her costly cavalry to

offer it for a mark of artillery-ball on three side of a square: and

the belief be universal that we could do more business-like deed and

play the great game of blunder with an ability refine by experience.

Everard Romfrey be one of those who think themselves justify in

insist upon the continuation of the war, in contempt of our ally.

his favourite saying that constitution beat the world, be be

splendidly manifest by our bearing. he be very uneasy; he would not

hear of peace; and not only that, the imperial gentleman soberly

commit the naïveté of send word to Nevil to let he know

immediately the opinion of the camp concern it, as perchance an old

roman knight may have write to some young aquilifer of the

Praetorians.



Allies, however, be of the description of twin join by a membrane,

and suppose that one of they determine to sit down, the other will

act wisely in bend his knee at once, and do the same: he cannot

but be extremely uncomfortable left standing. besides, there be the

Ottoman cleverly poise again; the Muscovite be batter; fresh guilt

be add to the military glory of the Gaul. english grumbler might

well be ask what they have fight for, if they be not content.



Colonel Halkett mention a report that Nevil have receive a slight

thigh-wound of small importance. at any rate, something be the matter

with he, and it be naturally imagine that he would have double cause

to write home; and still more so for the reason, his uncle confess,

that he have foresee the folly of a war conduct by milky

cotton-spinner and their adjunct, in partnership with a throned

gambler, who have win his stake, and now snap his finger at they.

Everard expect, he have prepare himself for, the young naval

politician’s crow, and he mean to admit frankly that he have be wrong

in wish to fight anybody without having first crush the cotton

faction. but Nevil continue silent.



“dead in hospital or a Turk hotel!” sigh Everard; “and no more to the

scoundrel over there than a body to be shovel into slack lime.”



Rosamund Culling be the only witness of his remarkable betrayal of

grief.









CHAPTER V.

RENÉE





at last, one morning, arrive a letter from a french gentleman signing

himself Comte Cresnes de Croisnel, in which Everard be inform that

his nephew have accompany the son of the writer, Captain de Croisnel,

on board an austrian boat out of the East, and be lie in Venice

under a return-attack of fever,—not, the count state pointedly, in the

hand of an italian physician. he have bring his own with he to meet

his son, who be likewise disabled.



Everard be assure by M. de Croisnel that every attention and

affectionate care be be render to his gallant and adore

nephew—“vrai type de tout ce qu’il y a de noble et de chevaleresque

dan la vieille Angleterre”—from a family bind to he by the tender

obligation, personal and national; one as dear to every member of it

as the brother, the son, they welcome with thankful heart to the

Divine interposition restore he to they. in conclusion, the count

propose something like the embrace of a fraternal friendship should

Everard think fit to act upon the spontaneous sentiment of a love

relative, and join they in Venice to watch over his nephew’s recovery.

already M. Nevil be strong. the gondola be a medicine in itself,

the count say.



Everard knit his mouth to intensify a peculiar subdue form of

laughter through the nose, in hopeless ridicule of a Frenchman’s

notion of an Englishman’s occupation—presume across Channel to allow

of his break loose from shoot engagement at a minute’s notice,

to rush off to a fetid foreign city notorious for mud and mosquito,

and commence capering and grimacing, pour forth a jugful of

ready-make extravagance, with _mon fil! mon cher neveu! Dieu!_ and

similar fiddlededee. these be matter for woman to do, if they choose:

woman and Frenchmen be much of a pattern. moreover, he know the hotel

this Comte de Croisnel be stay at. he gasp at the name of it: he

have rather encounter a grisly bear than a mosquito any night of his

life, for no stretch of cunning outwit a mosquito; and enlarge on

the quality of the terrific insect, he vow it be damnation without

trial or judgement.



eventually, Mrs. Culling’s departure be permit. he argue, “why go?

the fellow’s comfortable, get himself together, and you say the

French be good nurse.” but her entreaty to go be vehement, though

Venice have no happy place in her recollection, and he withhold his

objection to she go. for he, the field forbid it. he send hearty

message to Nevil, and that be enough, consider that the young dog

of “humanity” have clearly be run out of his way to catch a

jaundice, and be bereave his house of the matronly government,

deprive of which they be all of they likely soon to be at six and

seven with disorderly lacquey, peccant maid, and cook in hysteric.



now if the master of his fortune have come to Venice!—Nevil start the

supposition in his mind often after hope have sunk.—Everard would have

see a young sailor and a soldier the thin for wear, recline in a

gondola half the day, fan by a brunette of the fine lineament of

the good blood of France. she chatter snatch of Venetian catch

from the gondolier, she be like a delicate cup of crystal brimming

with the beauty of the place, and make one of they drink in all his

impression through she. her feature have the soft irregularity which

run to rarity of beauty, as the ripple rock the light; mouth, eye,

brow, nostril, and bloomy cheek play into one another liquidly;

thought flew, tongue follow, and the flash of meaning quiver over

they like night-lightning. or oftener, to speak truth, tongue fly,

think follow: her age be but newly seventeen, and she be french.



her name be Renée. she be the only daughter of the Comte de Croisnel.

her brother Roland owe his life to Nevil, this Englishman proud of a

french name—Nevil Beauchamp. if there be any warm feeling below the

unruffled surface of the girl’s deliberate eye while gaze on he, it

be that he who have save her brother must be nearly brother himself,

yet be not quite, yet must be love, yet not approach. he be her

brother’s brother-in-arm, brother-in-heart, not her, yet her through

her brother. his french name rescue he from foreignness. he speak she

language with a piquant accent, unlike the pitiable English. unlike

they, he be gracious, and could be soft and quick. the battle-scarlet,

battle-black, Roland’s tale of he throw round he in her imagination,

make his gentleness a surprise. if, then, he be her through her

brother, what be she to he? the question do not spring clearly

within she, though she be alive to every gradual change of manner

toward the convalescent necessitate by the law overawe her sex.



Venice be the french girl’s dream. she be realize it hungrily,

revel in it, anatomize it, pick it to piece, review it,

compare her work with the original, and the original with her first

conception, until beautiful sad Venice threaten to be no more her

dream, and in dread of disenchantment she try to take impression

humbly, really task herself not to analyze, not to dictate from a

french footing, not to scorn. not to be petulant with object

disappoint she, be an impossible task. she could not consent to a

compromise with the people, the merchandize, the odour of the city.

glide in the gondola through the narrow canal at low tide, she

lean back simulate stupor, with one word—“Venezia!” her brother be

command to smoke: “fumez, fumez, Roland!” as soon as the

steel-crest prow have push into her Paradise of the Canal Grande,

she quietly shroud her hair from tobacco, and call upon rapture to

recompense she for her suffering. the black gondola be unendurable to

she. she have accompany her father to the Accademia, and muse on the

golden venetian street of Carpaccio: she must have an open gondola to

decorate in his manner, gaily, splendidly, and mock at her effort—a

warning to all that might hope to improve the prevail gloom and

squalor by levy contribution upon the Merceria! her most constant

admiration be for the english lord who use once to ride on the Lido

sand and visit the armenian convent—a lord and a poet. [Lord Byron

D.W.]



this be to be infinitely more than a naval lieutenant. but Nevil

claim she as little personally as he allow she to be claim by

another. the grace of her freak of petulance and airy whim, her

sprightly jet of wilfulness, fleeting frown of contempt, imperious

decision, be all beautiful, like silver-shift wave, in this

lustrous planet of her pure freedom; and if you will seize the divine

conception of Artemis, and own the goddess French, you will understand

his feeling.



but though he admire fervently, and dance obediently to her tune,

Nevil could not hear injustice do to a people or historic poetic city

without try hard to right the mind guilty of it. a newspaper

correspondent, a Mr. John Holles, linger on his road home from the

army, put he on the track of an Englishman’s book—touch the spirit

as well as the stone of Venice, and Nevil thank he when he have

turn some of the leave.



the study of the book to school Renée be pursue, like the

Bianchina’s sleep, in gondoletta, and be not unlike it at interval. a

translate sentence be the key to a reverie. Renée lean back,

meditating; he forward, the book on his knee: Roland leave they to

themselves, and spy for the Bianchina behind the window-bar. the

count be in the church or the Galleries. Renée think she begin to

comprehend the spirit of Venice, and chide her rebelliousness.



“but our Venice be the Venice of the decadence, then!” she say,

complain. nevil read on, distrustful of the perspicuity of his own

idea.



“ah, but,” say she, “when these Venetians be rough man, chant

like our huguenot, how cold it must have be here!”



she hope she be not very wrong in prefer the time of the great

venetian painter and martial doge to that period of faith and

stone-cutting. what be do then might be beautiful, but the life be

monotonous; she insist that it be Huguenot; harsh, nasal, sombre,

insolent, self-sufficient. her eye lighten for the flashing colour

and pageantry, and the thread of desperate adventure cross the

Rii to this and that palace-door and balcony, like faint blood-streak;

the time of Venice in full flower. she reason against the hard

eloquent Englishman of the book. “but we be know by our fruit, be

we not? and the Venice I admire be surely the fruit of these

stonecutter chant hymn of faith; it could not but be: and if it

deserve, as he say, to die disgrace, I think we should go back to

they and ask they whether their mind be as pure and holy as he

suppose.” her french wit would not be subdue. Nevil point to the

palace. “Pride,” say she. he argue that the original Venetians be

not responsible for their offspring. “you say it?” she cry, “you, of

an old race? oh, no; you do not feel it!” and the trembling fervour of

her voice convince he that he do not, could not.



Renée say: “I know my ancestor be bind up in I, by my sentiment

to they; and so do you, M. Nevil. we shame they if we fail in courage

and honour. be it not so? if we break a single pledge word we cast

shame on they. why, that make we what we be; that be our distinction:

we dare not be weak if we would. and therefore when Venice be

reproach with avarice and luxury, I choose to say—what do we hear of

the child of miser? and I say I be certain that those old cold

Huguenot stonecutter be proud and grasping. I be sure they be, and

they _shall_ share the blame.”



Nevil plunge into his volume.



he call on Roland for an opinion.



“Friend,” say Roland, “opinion may differ: mine be, consider the

defence of the window, that the only way into these house or out of

they bodily be the doorway.”



Roland compliment his sister and friend on the prosecution of their

study: he could not understand a word of the subject, and yawn, he

beg permission to be allow to land and join the gondola at a

distant quarter. the gallant officer be in haste to go.



Renée stare at her brother. he see nothing; he say a word to the

gondolier, and quit the boat. Mars be in pursuit. she resign

herself, and cease then to be a girl.









CHAPTER VI.

love in VENICE





the air flash like heaven descend for Nevil alone with Renée. they

have never be alone before. such happiness belong to the avenue of

wish lead to golden mist beyond imagination, and seem, come

on he suddenly, miraculous. he lean toward she like one who have

break a current of speech, and wait to resume it. she be all

unsuspecting indolence, with gravely shadow eye.



“I throw the book down,” he say.



she object. “no; continue: I like it.”



both of they divine that the book be there to do duty for Roland.



he close it, keep a finger among the leave; a kind of anchorage in

case of indiscretion.



“permit I to tell you, M. Nevil, you be inclined to play truant

to-day.”



“I be.”



“now be the very time to read; for my poor Roland be at sea when we

discuss our question, and the book have drive he away.”



“but we have plenty of time to read. we miss the scene.”



“the scene be green shutter, wet step, barcaroli, brown woman,

striped post, a scarlet night-cap, a sick fig-tree, an old shawl,

fade spot of colour, peel wall. they might be figure by a

trodden melon. they all resemble one another, and so do the day here.”



“that’s the charm. I wish I could look on you and think the same. you,

as you be, for ever.”



“would you not let I live my life?”



“I would not have you alter.”



“please to be pathetic on that subject after I be wrinkle, monsieur.”



“you want commanding, mademoiselle.”



Renée nestle her chin, and gaze forward through her eyelash.



“Venice be like a melancholy face of a former beauty who have cease to

rouge, or wipe away trace of her old art,” she say, strain for

common talk, and show the strain.



“wait; now we be round,” say he; “now you have three of what you

call your theatre-bridge in sight. the people mount and drop, mount

and drop; I see they laugh. they be full of fun and good-temper. look

on live Venice.”



“provide that my papa be not cross when we go under.”



“would he not trust you to I?”



“yes.”



“he would? and you?”



“I do believe they be improvize an operetta on the second bridge.”



“you trust yourself willingly?”



“as to my second brother. you hear they? how delightfully quick and

spontaneous they be! ah, silly creature! they have stop. they

might have hold it on for we while we be pass.”



“where would the naturalness have be then?”



“perhaps, M. Nevil, I do want command. I be wilful. half my day

will be spend in fit of remorse, I begin to think.”



“come to I to be forgive.”



“Shall I? I should be forgive too readily.”



“I be not so sure of that.”



“can you be harsh? no, not even with enemy. Least of all with... with

we.”



oh for the black gondola!—the little gliding dusky chamber for two;

instead of this open, flaunting, gold and crimson cotton-work, which

exact discretion on his part and that of the mannerly gondolier, and

expose he to window, balcony, bridge, and borderway.



they slip on beneath a red balcony where a girl lean on her fold

arm, and eye they come and go by with egyptian gravity.



“how strange a power of look these people have,” say Renée, whose

vivacity be fascinated to a steady sparkle by the girl. “tell I, be

she glance round at we?”



Nevil turn and report that she be not. she have exhaust they

while they be in transit; she have no minor curiosity.



“let we fancy she be look for her lover,” he say.



Renée add: “let we hope she will not escape be see.”



“I give she my benediction,” say Nevil.



“and I,” say Renée; “and adieu to she, if you please. look for

Roland.”



“you remind I; I have but a few instant.”



“M. Nevil, you be a preux of the time of my brother’s patronymic. and

there be my Roland await we. be he not handsome?”



“how glad you be to have he to relieve guard!”



Renée bend on Nevil one of her singular look of raillery. she have

hitherto be fence at a serious disadvantage.



“not so very glad,” she say, “if that deprive I of the presence of

his friend.”



Roland be her tower. but Roland be not yet on board. she have peep

from her citadel too rashly. Nevil have time to spring the flood of

crimson in her cheek, bright as the awning she recline under.



“would you have I with you always?”



“assuredly,” say she, feel the hawk in he, and try to baffle

he by flutter.



“always? forever? and—listen—give I a title?”



Renée sing out to Roland like a bird in distress, and have some trouble

not to appear too providentially rescue. Roland on board, she resume

the attack.



“M. Nevil vow he be a well brother to I than you, who dart away on

an impulse and leave we thread all Venice till we do not know where

we be, naughty brother!”



“my little sister, the spot where you be,” rejoin Roland, “be

precisely the spot where I leave you, and I defy you to say you have

go on without I. this be the identical riva I step out on to buy

you a packet of venetian ballad.”



they recognize the spot, and for a confirmation of the surprising

statement, Roland unroll several sheet of print blotting-paper,

and rapidly read part of a Canzonetta concern Una Giovine who

reprove her lover for his extreme addiction to wine:



“Ma sè, ma sè,

Cotanto bevè,

Mi nò, mi nò,

no ve sposerò.”



“this astounding vagabond prefer Nostrani to his heart’s mistress. I

taste some of their Nostrani to see if it could be possible for a

Frenchman to exonerate he.”



Roland’s wry face at the mention of Nostrani bring out the chief

gondolier, who deliver himself:



“Signore, there be hereditary qualification. one must be bear italian

to appreciate the merit of Nostrani!”



Roland laugh. he have cover his delinquency in leave his sister,

and be full of an adventure to relate to Nevil, a story promise well

for he.









CHAPTER VII.

an AWAKENING for BOTH





Renée be downcast. have she not coquet? the dear young Englishman

have reduce she to defend herself, the which fair lady, like besiege

garrison, cannot always do successfully without an attack at time,

which, when the pursuer be ardent, be follow by a retreat, which be a

provocation; and these thing be coquettry. her still fresh

convent-conscience accuse she of it pitilessly. she could not forgive

her brother, and yet she dared not reproach he, for that would have

inculpate Nevil. she step on to the Piazzetta thoughtfully. she

father be at Florian’s, peruse letter from France. “we be to have

the marquis here in a week, my child,” he say. Renée nod.

involuntarily she look at Nevil. he catch the look, with a lover’s

quick sense of misfortune in it.



she hear her brother reply to he: “who? the Marquis de Rouaillout? it

be a jolly gaillard of fifty who spoil no fun.”



“you mistake his age, Roland,” she say.



“forty-nine, then, my sister.”



“he be not that.”



“he look it.”



“you have be absent.”



“probably, my arithmetical sister, he have employ the interval to grow

young. they say it be the way with green gentleman of a certain age.

they advance and they retire. they perform the first step of a

quadrille ceremoniously, and we admire they.”



“what’s that?” exclaim the Comte de Croisnel. “you talk nonsense,

Roland. M. le marquis be hardly past forty. he be in his prime.”



“without question, mon pere. for I, I be merely offer proof that

he can preserve his prime unlimitedly.”



“he be not a subject for mockery, Roland.”



“quite the contrary; for reverence!”



“another than you, my boy, and he would march you out.”



“I be to imagine, then, that his hand continue firm?”



“imagine to the extent of your capacity; but remember that respect be

always owe to your own family, and deliberate before you draw on

yourself such a chastisement as mercy from an accepted member of it.”



Roland bow and drum on his knee.



the conversation have be originate by Renée for the enlightenment of

Nevil and as a future protection to herself. now that it have disclose

its burden she could look at he no more, and when her father address

she significantly: “Marquise, you do I the honour to consent to

accompany I to the Church of the Frari this afternoon?” she feel she

self-accusation of coquettry bite under her bosom like a thing alive.



Roland explain the situation to Nevil.



“it be the mania with we, my dear Nevil, to marry our girl young to

establish man. your established man carry usually all the sign,

visible to the multitude or not, of the stage lead to that

eminence. we cannot, I believe, unless we have the good fortune to

boast the paternity of Hercules, disconnect ourselves from the step we

have mount; not even, the priest inform we, if we be ascend to

heaven; we carry they beyond the grave. however, it seem that our

excellent marquis contrive to keep they conceal, and he be ready to

face marriage—the Grandest Inquisitor, next to death. two furious

matchmaker—our country, beautiful France, abound in they—meet one day;

they be a comtesse and a baronne, and they settle the alliance. the

bell be rung, and Renée come out of school. there be this to be say:

she have no mother; the soon a girl without a mother have a husband the

well. that we be all agree upon. I have no personal objection to

the marquis; he have never be in any great scandal. he be Norman, and

have estate in Normandy, Dauphiny, Touraine; he be hospitable,

luxurious. Renée will have a fine hôtel in Paris. but I be eccentric: I

have read in our old Fabliaux of December and May. say the marquis be

November, say October; he be still some distance remove from the plump

Spring month. and we in our family have wit and passion. in fine, a

bud of a rose in an old gentleman’s button-hole! it be a challenge to

the whole world of youth; and if the bud should leap? enough of this

matter, friend Nevil; but sometimes a friend must allow himself to be

bother. I have perfect confidence in my sister, you see; I simply

protest against her be expose to... you know man. I protest, that

be, in the privacy of my cigar-case, for I have no chance elsewhere.

the affair be on wheel. the very respectable matchmaker have kindle

the marquis on the one hand, and my father on the other, and Renée

pass obediently from the latter to the former. in India they

sacrifice the widow, in France the virgin.”



Roland proceed to relate his adventure. nevil’s inattention pique

he to salt and salt it wonderfully, until the old story of he and she

have an exciting savour in its introductory chapter; but his friend be

fly through the circle of the Inferno, and the babble of an

ephemeral upper world simply affect he by its contrast with the

overpowering horror, repugnance, despair, pity, rush at he,

surcharge his sense. those that live much by the heart in their

youth have sharp foretaste of the issue image for the soul. St.

Mark’s be in a minute strike black for he. he neither feel the

sunlight nor understand why column and campanile rise, nor why the

island bask, and boat and people move. all be as remote little

bit of mechanism.



Nevil escape, and walk in the direction of the Frari down calle and

campiello. only to see she—to compare she with the Renée of the past

hour! but _that_ Renée have be all the while a feast of delusion; she

could never be resuscitate in the shape he have know, not even clearly

visioned. not a day of she, not an hour, not a single look have be his

own. she have be sell when he first behold she, and should, he

mutter austerely, have be ticket the property of a middle-aged

man, a wear-out french marquis, whom she have agree to marry, unwooe,

without love—the creature of a transaction. but she be innocent, she

be unaware of the sin reside in a loveless marriage; and this

restore she to he somewhat as a drowned body be give back to

mourner.



after aimless walking he find himself on the Zattere, where the lonely

Giudecca lie in front, cover mud and marsh and lagune-flame of

later afternoon, and you have sight of the high mainland hill which

seem to fle forth one over other to a golden sea-cape.



midway on this unadorned Zattere, with its young tree and spot of

shade, he be meet by Renée and her father. their gondola be below,

close to the riva, and the count say, “she be tired of stand gaze

at picture. there be a Veronese in one of the church of the Giudecca

opposite. will you, M. Nevil, act as parade-escort to she here for half

an hour, while I go over? Renée complain that she lose the vulgar art

of walk in her complaisant attention to the fine art. I weary my

poor child.”



Renée protest in a rapid chatter.



“must I avow it?” say the count; “she damp my enthusiasm a little.”



Nevil mutely accept the office.



twice that day be she surrender to he: once in his ignorance, when

time appear an expanse of many sunny field. on this occasion it

puff steam; yet, after see the count embark, he commence the

parade in silence.



“this be a nice walk,” say Renée; “we have not the step of the riva

dei Schiavoni. it be rather melancholy though. how do you discover it?

I persuade my papa to send the gondola round, and walk till we come to

the water. tell I about the Giudecca.”



“the Giudecca be a place keep apart for the Jews, I believe. you have

see their burial-ground on the Lido. those be, I think, the euganean

hill. you be fond of Petrarch.”



“M. Nevil, omit the allusion to the poet, you have, permit I to

remark, the brevity without the precision of an accredited guide to

notability.”



“I tell you what I know,” say Nevil, brood on the finished tone and

womanly aplomb of her language. it make he forget that she be a girl

entrust to his guardianship. his heart come out.



“Renée, if you love he, I, on my honour, would not utter a word for

myself. your heart’s inclination be sacred for I. I would stand by,

and be your friend and his. if he be young, that I might see a chance

of it!”



she murmur, “you should not have listen to Roland.”



“Roland should have warn I. how could I be near you and not... but I

be nothing. forget I; do not think I speak interestedly, except to

save the dearest I have ever know from certain wretchedness. to yield

yourself hand and foot for life! I warn you that it must end miserably.

your countrywoman... you have the habit in France; but like what be

you treat? you! none like you in the whole world! you consent to be

extinguish. and I have to look on! listen to I now.”



Renée glance at the gondola convey her father. and he have not yet

land! she think, and say, “do you pretend to judge of my welfare

well than my papa?”



“yes; in this. he follow a fashion. you submit to it. his anxiety be

to provide for you. but I know the system be curse by nature, and that

mean by heaven.”



“because it be not english?”



“o Renée, my beloved for ever! well, then, tell I, tell I you can say

with pride and happiness that the Marquis de Rouaillout be to be

your—there’s the word—husband!”



Renée look across the water.



“Friend, if my father know you be ask I!”



“I will speak to he.”



“useless.”



“he be generous, he love you.”



“he cannot break an engagement bind his honour.”



“would you, Renée, would you—it must be say—consent to have it know

to he—I beg for more than life—that your be not averse... that you

support I?”



his fail breath soften the bluntness.



she reply, “I would not have he ever break an engagement bind his

honour.”



“you stretch the point of honour.”



“it be our way. dear friend, we be french. and I presume to think that

our french system be not always wrong, for if my father have not break

it by treat you as one of we and leave I with you, should I have

hear...?”



“I have displease you.”



“do not suppose that. but, I mean, a mother would not have leave I.”



“you wish to avoid it.”



“do not blame I. I have some instinct; you be very pale.”



“you know I love you.”



“no.”



“yes; for this morning...”



“this morning it seem to I, and I regret my fancy, that you be

inclined to trifle, as, they say, young man do.”



“with Renée?”



“with your friend Renée. and those be the hill of Petrarch’s tomb?

they be mountain.”



they be purple beneath a large brooding cloud that hang against the

sun, wait for he to enfold he, and Nevil think that a tomb there

would be a welcome end, if he might lift Renée in one wild flight over

the chasm gape for she. he have no language for thought of such a

kind, only tumultuous feeling.



she be immoveable, in perfect armour.



he say despairingly, “can you have realize what you be consent

to?”



she answer, “it be my duty.”



“your duty! it’s like take up a dice-box, and flinging once, to

certain ruin!”



“I must oppose my father to you, friend. do you not understand duty to

parent? they say the English be full of the idea of duty.”



“duty to country, duty to oath and obligation; but with we the heart

be free to choose.”



“free to choose, and when it be most ignorant?”



“the heart? ask it. nothing be surer.”



“that be not what we be teach. we be teach that the heart deceive

itself. the heart throw your dicebox; not prudent parent.”



she talk like a woman, to plead the cause of her obedience as a girl,

and now silence in the same manner that she have previously excite

he.



“then you be lose to I,” he say.



they see the gondola return.



“how swiftly it come home; it loiter when it go,” say Renée.

“there sit my father, brim with his picture; he have see one more!

we will congratulate he. this little boulevard be not much to speak

of. the hill be lovely. friend,” she drop her voice on the

gondola’s approach, “we have converse on common subject.”



Nevil have her hand in his, to place she in the gondola.



she seem thankful that he should prefer to go round on foot. at

least, she do not join in her father’s invitation to he. she lean

back, nestle her chin and half close her eye, suffer herself to

be divide from he, bear away by force she acquiesce in.



Roland be not visible till near midnight on the Piazza. the

promenader, chiefly military of the garrison, be few at that period

of social protestation, and he could declare his disappointment aloud,

ringingly, as he stroll up to Nevil, look as if the cigar in his

mouth and the fist entrench in his wide trowser-pocket be

mortally at feud. his adventure have not pursue its course luminously.

he have expect romance, and have meet merchandize, and his vanity be

offend. to pacify he, Nevil relate how he have hear that since the

Venetian rise of “49, venetian lady have issue from the ordeal of

fire and famine of another pattern than the famous old Benzon one, in

which they touch earthy earth. he praise Republicanism for that.

the spirit of the new and short-live Republic work that change in

Venice.



“oh, if they’re republican as well as utterly decay,” say Roland, “I

give they up; let they die virtuous.”



Nevil tell Roland that he have speak to Renée. he win sympathy, but

Roland could not give he encouragement. they cross and recrosse the

shadow of the great campanile, on the warm-white stone of the square,

Nevil admit the weight of whatsoever Roland point to he in

favour of the arrangement accord to french notion, and indeed, of

aristocratic notion everywhere, save that it be imperative for

Renée to be dispose of in marriage early. why rob she of her young

springtime!



“french girl,” reply Roland, confuse by the nature of the

explication in his head—“well, they’re not english; they want a hand to

shape they, otherwise they grow all awry. my father will not have one

of her aunt to live with he, so there she be. but, my dear Nevil, I

owe my life to you, and I be no party to this affair. I would do

anything to help you. what say Renée?”



“she obey.”



“exactly. you see! our girl be chess-piece until they’re marry.

then they have life and character sometimes too much.”



“she be not like they, Roland; she be like none. when I speak to she

first, she affect no astonishment; never be there a creature so

nobly sincere. she’s a girl in heart, not in mind. think of she

sacrifice to this man thrice her age!”



“she differ from other girl only on the surface, Nevil. as for the

man, I wish she be go to marry a young. I wish, yes, my friend,”

Roland squeeze Nevil’s hand, “I wish! I’m afraid it’s hopeless. she

do not tell you to hope?”



“not by one single sign,” say Nevil.



“you see, my friend!”



“for that reason,” Nevil rejoin, with the calm fanaticism of the

passion of love, “I hope all the more... because I will not believe

that she, so pure and good, can be sacrifice. put I aside—I be

nothing. I hope to save she from that.”



“we have now,” say Roland, “strike the current of duplicity. you be

really in love, my poor fellow.”



Lover and friend come to no conclusion, except that so lovely a night

be not give for slumber. a small round brilliant moon hang almost

globe in the depth of heaven, and the image of it fall deep between

San Giorgio and the Dogana.



Renée have the scene from her window, like a dream give out of sleep.

she lie with both arm throw up beneath her head on the pillow, her

eyelid wide open, and her visage set and stern. her bosom rise and

sink regularly but heavily. the fluctuation of a night stormy for she,

hitherto unknown, have sink she to this trance, in which she lie like a

creature fling on shore by the wave. she hear her brother’s voice and

Nevil’s, and the pacing of their foot. she see the long shaft of

moonlight break to zigzag of mellow lightning, and waver back to

steadiness; dark San Giorgio, and the sheen of the Dogana’s front. but

the visible beauty belong to a night that have shiver repose,

humiliate and wound she, destroy her confident happy half-infancy

of heart, and she have fly for a refuge to hard feeling. her

predominant sentiment be anger; an anger that touch all and

envelop none, for it be quite fictitious, though she feel it, and

suffer from it. she turn it on Nevil, as against an enemy, and

become the victim in his place. tear for he fill in her eye, and

run over; she disdain to notice they, and blink offendedly to have

her sight clear of the weakness; but these interceding tear would

flow; it be dangerous to blame he, harshly. she let they roll down,

figure to herself with quiet simplicity of mind that her spirit be

independent of they as long as she restrain her hand from be

accomplice by brush they away, as weep girl do that cry for

comfort. Nevil have save her brother’s life, and have succour she

countryman; he love she, and be a hero. he should not have say he

love she; that be wrong; and it be shameful that he should have

urge she to disobey her father. but this hero’s love of she might

plead excuse she do not know of; and if he be to be excuse, he,

unhappy that he be, have a claim on she for more than tear. she weep

resentfully. force above her own sway and hurry she like a

lifeless body drag by fly wheel: they could not unnerve she

will, or rather, what it really be, her sense of submission to a

destiny. look at from the height of the palm-wave cherub over the

fall martyr in the picture, she seem as nerveless as a dreamy girl.

the raise arm and bent elbow be an illusion of indifference. her

shape be rigid from hand to foot, as if to keep in a knot the

resolution of her mind; for the second and in that young season the

strong nature graft by her education fix she to the religious

duty of obey and please her father, in contempt, almost in

abhorrence, of personal inclination tend to thwart he and imperil

his pledge word. she know she have inclination to be tender. her hand

release, how promptly might she not have be confide she

innumerable perplexity of sentiment and emotion to paper, undermine

self-governance; self-respect, perhaps! far than that, she do not

understand the feeling she struggle with; nor have she any impulse to

gaze on he, the cause of her trouble, who walk beside her brother

below, talk betweenwhile in the night’s grave undertone. her

trouble be too overmastering; it have seize she too mysteriously,

come on her solitariness without warn in the first watch of the

night, like a spark crackling serpentine along dry leave to sudden

flame. a thought of Nevil and a regret have do it.









CHAPTER VIII.

a night on the ADRIATIC





the lover meet after Roland have speak to his sister—not exactly to

advocate the cause of Nevil, though he be under the influence of that

grave night’s walk with he, but to sound she and see whether she at

all share Nevil’s view of her situation. Roland feel the awfulness of

a french family arrangement of a marriage, and the impertinence of a

foreign Cupid’s intrusion, too keenly to plead for his friend: at the

same time he love his friend and his sister, and would have be very

ready to smile blessing on they if favourable circumstance have raise

a signal; if, for example, apoplexy or any other cordial ex machina

intervention have remove the middle-aged marquis; and, perhaps, if

Renée have show the repugnance to her engagement which Nevil declare

she must have in her heart, he would have do more than smile; he

would have lay the case deferentially before his father. his own

opinion be that young unmarried woman be incapable of the passion of

love, be, as it be, but half-feather in that state, and unable

to fly; and Renée confirm it. the suspicion of an advocacy on Nevil’s

behalf steel she. his tentative observation be check at the

outset.



“can such thing be speak of to I, Roland? I be plight. you know

it.”



he shrug, say a word of pity for Nevil, and go forth to let his

friend know that it be as he have predict: Renée be obedience in

person, like a rightly educate french girl. he strongly advise his

friend to banish all hope of she from his mind. but the mind he

address be of a curious order; far-shooting, tough, persistent, and

when act on by the spell of devotion, indomitable. nevil put hope

aside, or rather, he clothe it in other garment, in which it be hardly

to be recognize by himself, and say to Roland: “you must bear this

from I; you must let I follow you to the end, and if she waver she

will find I near.”



Roland could not avoid ask the use of it, consider that Renée,

however much she admire and like, be not in love with he.



Nevil resign himself to admit that she be not: and therefore, say

he, “you willn’t object to my remaining.”



Renée greet Nevil with as clear a conventional air as a woman could

assume.



she be go, she say, to attend High Mass in the church of S. Moise,

and she wave her devout Roman Catholicism to show the breadth of

the division between they. he propose to go likewise. she be mute.

after some discourse she contrive to say inoffensively that people who

stroll into her church for the music, or out of curiosity, play

the barbarian.



“well, I will not go,” say Nevil.



“but I do not wish to number you among they,” she say.



“then,” say Nevil, “I will go, for it cannot be barbarous to try to be

with you.”



“no, that be wickedness,” say Renée.



she be sensible that conversation betray she, and Nevil’s apparently

deliberate pursuit signify to she that he must be aware of his

mastery, and she resent it, and stumble into pitfall whenever she

open her lip. it seem to be deny to they to utter what she

mean, if indeed she have a meaning in speak, save to hurt herself

cruelly by wound the man who have catch she in the toil: and so

long as she could imagine that she be the only one hurt, she be the

braver and the harsh for it; but at the sight of Nevil in pain her

heart relent and shift, and discover it to be so weak as to be

almost at his mercy, she defend it with an aggressive unkindness, for

which, in charity to her sweeter nature, she have to ask his pardon, and

then have to fib to give reason for her conduct, and then to pretend to

herself that her pride be humble by he; a most humiliating round,

constantly recur; the bad for the reflection that she create it.

she attempt silence. Nevil speak, and be like the magical piper: she

be compel to follow he and dance the round again, with the

wretched thought that it must resemble coquettry. Nevil do not think

so, but a very attentive observer now upon the scene, and possess of

his half of the secret, do, and warn he. Rosamund Culling add

that the french girl might be only an unconscious coquette, for she be

young. the critic would not undertake to pronounce on her suggestion,

whether the candour apparent in merely coquettish instinct be not

more dangerous than a battery of the art of the sex. she have hear

Nevil’s frank confession, and see Renée twice, when she try in his

service, though not greatly wish for success, to stir the sensitive

girl for an answer to his attachment. probably she go to work

transparently, after the insular fashion of open a spiritual mystery

with the lancet. Renée suffer herself to be probe here and there,

and reveal nothing of the pain of the operation. she say to Nevil,

in Rosamund’s hearing:



“have you the sense of honour acute in your country?” Nevil inquire

for the apropos.



“none,” say she.



such pointed insolence dispose Rosamund to an irritable antagonism,

without remind she that she have give some cause for it.



Renée say to she presently: “he save my brother’s life”; the àpropos

be as little perceptible as before.



her voice drop to her sweetest deep tone, and there be a

supplicate beam in her eye, unintelligible to the direct

Englishwoman, except under the heading of a power of witchery fearful

to think of in one so young, and love by Nevil.



the look be turn upon she, not upon her hero, and Rosamund think,

“do she want to entangle I as well?”



it be, in truth, a look of entreaty from woman to woman, signify

need of womanly help. Renée would have make a confidante of she, if she

have not know she to be Nevil’s, and devote to he. “I would speak to

you, but that I feel you would betray I,” her eye have say. the

strong sincerity dwelling amid multiform complexity might have make

itself comprehensible to the english lady for a moment or so, have Renée

speak word to her ear; but belief in it would hardly have survive

the girl’s next convolution. “she be intensely french,” Rosamund say

to Nevil—a volume of insular criticism in a sentence.



“you do not know she, ma’am,” say Nevil. “you think she old than she

be, and that be the error I fall into. she be a child.”



“a serpent in the egg be none the less a serpent, Nevil. forgive I;

but when she tell you the case be hopeless!”



“no case be hopeless till a man consent to think it be; and I shall

stay.”



“but then again, Nevil, you have not consult your uncle.”



“let he see she! let he only see she!”



Rosamund cull reserve her opinion compassionately. his uncle would

soon be call to have he home: society pant for he to make much

of he and here he be, curse by one of his notion of duty, in

attendance on a captious “young french beauty, who be the less to be

excuse for not dismiss he peremptorily, if she care for he at

all. his career, which promise to be so brilliant, be spoil at the

outset. rosamund think of Renée almost with detestation, as a species

of sorceress that have dig a trench in her hero’s road, and unhorsed and

fast fetter he.



the marquis be expect immediately. Renée send up a little note to

Mrs. Calling’s chamber early in the morning, and it be with an air of

one-day-more-to-ourselves, that, meet she, she entreat the English

lady to join the expedition mention in her note. Roland have hire a

big chioggian fishing-boat to sail into the gulf at night, and return

at dawn, and have sight of Venice rise from the sea. her father have

decline; but M. Nevil wish to be one of the party, and in that

case.... Renée throw herself beseechingly into the mute interrogation,

keep both of Rosamund’s hand. they could slip away only by decide

to, and this rare Englishwoman have no taste for the petty overt

hostility. “if I can be of use to you,” she say.



“if you can bear sea-pitching and tossing for the sake of the lovely

sight in the whole world,” say Renée.



“I know it well,” Rosamund reply.



Renée ripple her eyebrow. she divine a something behind that remark,

and as she be aware of the grief of Rosamund’s life, her quick

intuition whisper that it might be connect with the gallant officer

dead on the battle-field.



“Madame, if you know it too well...” she say.



“no; it be always worth see,” say Rosamund, “and I think,

mademoiselle, with your permission, I should accompany you.”



“it be only a whim of mine, madame. I can stay on shore.”



“not when it be unnecessary to forego a pleasure.”



“Say, my last day of freedom.”



Renée kiss her hand.



she be terribly win, Rosamund avow. Renée be in debate whether

the woman devote to Nevil would hear she and help.



just then Roland and Nevil return from their boat, where they have

leave carpenter and upholsterer at work, and the delicate chance for

an understanding between the lady pass by.



the young man be like wave of ocean overwhelm it, they be so

full of their boat, and the scouring and clean out of it, and

provisioning, and make it worthy of its freight. Nevil be surprised

that Mrs. Culling should have consent to come, and ask she if she

really wish it—really; and “really,” say Rosamund; “certainly.”



“without dubitation,” cry Roland. “and now my little Renée have no

more shore-qualm; she be smoothly chaperone, and madame will present

we tea on board. all the etcætera of life be there, and a mariner’s

eye in I spy a breeze at sunset to waft we out of Malamocco.”



the count listen to the recital of their preparation with his usual

absent interest in everything not turn upon art, politic, or social

intrigue. he say, “yes, good, good,” at the proper interval, and

walk down the riva to look at the busy boat, say to Nevil, “you be

a sailor; I confide my family to you,” and prudently counsel Renée

to put on the dress she could toss to the deep without regret. Mrs.

Culling he thank fervently for a wonderful stretch of generosity in

lend her presence to the madcap.



altogether the day be a reanimation of external Venice. but there be

a thunderbolt in it; for about an hour before sunset, when the lady

be superintend and try not to criticize the ingenious effort

to produce a make-believe of comfort on board for they, word be

bring down to the boat by the count’s valet that the Marquis de

Rouaillout have arrive. Renée turn her face to her brother

superciliously. Roland shrug. “note this, my sister,” he say; “an

anticipation of date in pay visit preclude the ripeness of the

sentiment of welcome. it be, however, true that the marquis have less

time to spare than other.”



“we have start; we be on the open sea. how can we put back?” say

Renée.



“you hear, François; we be on the open sea,” Roland address the

valet.



“Monsieur have cut loose his communication with land,” François

respond, and bow from the landing.



Nevil hasten to make this a true report; but they have to wait for

tide as well as breeze, and pilot through intricate mud-channel before

they could see the outside of the Lido, and meanwhile the sun lie like

a golden altarplatter on mud-bank make bare by the ebb, and curl in

drowsy yellow link along the current. all they could do be to push

off and hang loose, bump to right and leave in the midst of volley

and countervolley of fishy Venetian, Chioggian, and Dalmatian, quite

as strong as anything ever hear down the Canalaggio. the

representative of these dialect trot the deck and hang their

body half over the side of the vessel to deliver fire, flashed eye

and snap finger, not a whit less fierce than hostile crew in the

old war hurl an interchange of stink-pot, and then resume the

trot, apparently in search of fresh ammunition. an austrian sentinel

look on passively, and a police inspector peeringly. they be use

to it. happily, the combustible import of the language be unknown to

the lady, and Nevil’s attempt to keep his crew quiet, contrast

with Roland’s phlegm, which a Frenchman can assume so philosophically

when his tongue be tie, amuse they. during the clamour, Renée see she

father beckon from the riva. she signify that she be no long in

command of circumstance; the vessel be off. but the count stamp his

foot, and nod imperatively. Thereupon Roland repeat the eloquent

demonstration of Renée, and the count lose patience, and Roland

shout, “for the love of heaven, don’t join this babel; we’re nearly

burst.” the rage of the babel be allay by degree, though not

appease, for the boat be behave wantonly, as the police officer

point out to the count.



Renée stand up to bend her head. it be in reply to a salute from the

Marquis de Rouaillout, and Nevil behold his rival.



“M. le Marquis, see it be out of the question that we can come to

you, will you come to we?” cry Roland.



the marquis gesticulate “with alacrity” in every limb.



“we will bring you back on to-morrow midnight’s tide, safe, we promise

you.”



the marquis advance a foot, and withdraw it. could he have hear

correctly? they be to be out a whole night at sea! the count

dejectedly confess his incapability to restrain they: the young

desperado be ready for anything. he have try the voice of

authority, and be laugh at. as to Renée, an english lady be with

she.



“the english lady must be as mad as the rest,” say the marquis.



“the English be mad,” say the count; “but their woman be strict upon

the propriety.”



“possibly, my dear count; but what room be there for the propriety on

board a fishing-boat?”



“it be even as you say, my dear marquis.”



“you allow it?”



“can I help myself? look at they. they tell I they have give the boat

the fitting of a yacht.”



“and the young man?”



“that be the M. Beauchamp of whom I have speak to you, the very pick

of his country, fresh, lively, original; and he can converse. you will

like he.”



“I hope so,” say the marquis, and rouse a doleful laugh. “it would

seem that one do not arrive by hasten!”



“oh! but my dear marquis, you have pay the compliment; you be like

spring thrusting in a bunch of lilac while the wind of winter blow. if

you be not expect, your expeditiousness be appreciate, be sure.”



Roland fortunately do not hear the marquis compare to Spring. he be

say: “I wonder what those two elderly gentleman be talk about”;

and Nevil confuse his sense by try to realize that one of they be

destine to be the husband of his now speechless Renée. the marquis be

clothe in a white silken suit, and a dash of red round the neck set off

his black beard; but when he lift his broad straw hat, a baldness of

sconce shine. there be elegance in his gesture; he look a

gentleman, though an ultra-gallican one, that is, too scrupulously

finish for our taste, smell of the valet. he have the habit of

balance his body on the hip, as if to emphasize a juvenile vigour,

and his general attitude suggest an idea that he have an oration for

you. see from a distance, his baldness and strong nasal projection

be not win feature; the youthful standard he have evidently

prescribe to himself in his dress and his ready jerk of acquiescence

and delivery might lead a forlorn rival to conceive he something of an

ogre strain at an Adonis. it could not be dispute that he bear his

disappointment remarkably well; the more laudably, because his position

be within a step of the ridiculous, for he have shoot himself to the

mark, despise sleep, heat, dust, dirt, diet, and lo, that charming

object be deliberately slip out of reach, prove his headlong

journey an absurdity.



as he stood decline to participate in the lunatic voyage, and bid

they perforce good speed off the tip of his finger, Renée turn she

eye on he, and away. she feel a little smart of pity, arise partly

from her antagonism to Roland’s covert laughter: but it be the colder

kind of feminine pity, which be near to contempt than to tenderness.

she sit still, placid outwardly, in fear of herself, so strange she

find it to be bear out to sea by her sailor lover under the eye of

she betroth. she be conscious of a tumultuous rush of sensation,

none of they of a very healthy kind, come as it be from an unlocked

chamber of her bosom, hitherto of unimagined content; and the marquis

be now on the spot to defend his own, she no long blame Nevil: it

be otherwise utterly. all the sweet side of pity be for he.



he be at first amazed by the sudden exquisite transition. tenderness

breathe from she, in voice, in look, in touch; for she accept his

help that he might lead she to the stern of the vessel, to gaze well on

set Venice, and send lightning up his vein; she lean beside he

over the vessel’s rail, not separate from he by the breadth of a

flutter riband. like he, she scarcely hear her brother when for an

instant he intervene, and with Nevil she say adieu to Venice, where

the faint red Doge’s palace be like the fading of another sunset

north-westward of the glory along the hill. Venice drop lower and

low, breast the water, until it be a thin line in air. the line

be break, and run in dot, with here and there a pillar stand on

opal sky. at last the topmost campanile sink.



Renée look up at the sail, and back for the submerged city.



“it be go!” she say, as though a marvel have be work; and

swiftly: “we have one night!”



she breathe it half like a question, like a petition, catch her

breath. the adieu to Venice be her assurance of liberty, but Venice

hide roll on her the sense of the return and pluck shrewdly at

her tether of bondage.



they set their eye toward the dark gulf ahead. the night be grow

starry. the softly ruffle Adriatic toss no foam.



“one night?” say Nevil; “one? why only one?”



Renée shudder. “oh! do not speak.”



“then, give I your hand.”



“there, my friend.”



he press a hand that be like a quivering chord. she give it as

though it have be his own to claim. but that it mean no more than a

hand he know by the very frankness of her compliance, in the manner

natural to she; and this be the charm, it fill he with her peculiar

image and spirit, and while he hold it he be subdue.



lie on the deck at midnight, wrapt in his cloak and a coil of rope

for a pillow, considerably apart from jest Roland, the recollection

of that little sanguine spot of time when Renée’s life-blood run with

his, begin to heave under he like a swell sea. for Nevil the

star black night be Renée. half his heart be in it: but the

combative division fly to the morning and the deadly iniquity of the

marriage, from which he resolve to save she; in pure devotedness, he

believe. and so he close his eye. she, a girl, with a heart

flutter open and fearing, feel only that she have lose herself

somewhere, and she have neither sleep nor symbol, nothing but a sense

of infinite strangeness, as though she be bear superhumanly through

space.









CHAPTER IX.

morning AT SEA under the alps





the breeze blow steadily, enough to swell the sail and sweep the

vessel on smoothly. the night air drop no moisture on deck.



Nevil Beauchamp doze for an hour. he be awaken by light on his

eyelid, and start up beheld the many pinnacle of grey and red

rock and shadowy high white region at the head of the gulf wait

for the sun; and the sun strike they. one by one they come out in

crimson flame, till the vivid host appear to have step forward.

the shadow on the snow-field deepen to purple below an irradiation

of rose and pink and dazzle silver. there of all the world you might

imagine Gods to sit. a crowd of mountain endless in range, erect, or

flow, shattered and arid, or lean in smooth lustre, hang above

the gulf. the mountain be sovereign Alps, and the sea be beneath

they. the whole gigantic body keep the sea, as with a hand, to right

and left.



Nevil’s personal rapture crave for Renée with the second long breath

he draw; and now the curtain of her tent-cabin part, and greet he

with a half smile, she look out. the Adriatic be dark, the Alps have

heaven to themselves. crescent and hollow, rosy mound, white

shelf, shine ledge, dome and peak, all the tower height be

in illumination from Friuli into farth Tyrol; beyond earth to the

stricken sense of the gazer. colour be stedfast on the massive front

rank: it waver in the remoteness, and be quick and dim as though it

fall on beat wing; but there too divine colour seize and shape

forth solid form, and thence away to other in uttermost distance

where the incredible flickering gleam of new height arise, that

soar, or stretch their white uncertain curve in sky like wing

traverse infinity.



it seem unlike morning to the lover, but as if night have break with

a revelation of the kingdom in the heart of night. while the broad

smooth water roll unlighted beneath that transfigure upper sphere,

it be possible to think the scene might vanish like a view catch out

of darkness by lightning. Alp over burn Alp, and around they a

hueless dawn! the two exult they throw off the load of wonderment,

and in look they have the delicious sensation of flight in their

vein.



Renée steal toward Nevil. she be mystically shake and at his mercy;

and have he say then, “over to the other land, away from Venice!” she

would have bend her head.



she ask his permission to rouse her brother and madame, so that they

should not miss the scene.



Roland lie in the fold of his military greatcoat, too completely happy

to be disturb, Nevil Beauchamp choose to think; and Rosamund Culling,

he tell Renée, have be separate from her husband last on these

water.



“ah! to be unhappy here,” sigh Renée. “I fancy it when I beg she

to join we. it be in her voice.”



the impressionable girl tremble. he know he be dear to she, and for

that reason, judge of she by himself, he forbear to urge his

advantage, conceive it base to fear that love he she could yield

her hand to another; and it be the critical instant. she be almost in

his grasp. a word of sharp entreaty would have swing her round to see

her situation with his eye, and det and shrink from it. he

commit the capital fault of treat she as his equal in passion and

courage, not as metal ready to run into the mould under temporary

stress of fire.



even later in the morning, when she be cool and he have come to

speak, more than her own strength be need to resist he. the

struggle be hard. the boat’s head have be put about for Venice, and

they be among the dusky-red chioggian sail in fishing quarter,

expect momently a campanile to signal the sea-city over the level.

Renée wait for it in suspense. to she it stand for the implacable key

of a close and stifle chamber, so different from this brilliant

boundless region of air, that she sicken with the apprehension; but

she know it must appear, and soon, and therewith the contraction and

the gloom it indicate to her mind. he talk of the beauty. she

fret at it, and be her petulant self again in an epigrammatic note

of discord.



he let that pass.



“last night you say ‘one night,’” he whisper. “we will have another

sail before we leave Venice.”



“one night, and in a little time one hour! and next one minute! and

there’s the end,” say Renée.



her tone alarm he. “have you forget that you give I your hand?”



“I give my hand to my friend.”



“you give it to I for good.”



“no; I dare not; it be not mine.”



“it be mine,” say Beauchamp.



Renée point to the dot and sever line and isolate column of the

rise city, black over bright sea.



“mine there as well as here,” say Beauchamp, and look at she with

the fiery zeal of eye intent on minutest sign for a confirmation, to

shake that sad negation of her face.



“Renée, you cannot break the pledge of the hand you give I last

night.”



“you tell I how weak a creature I be.”



“you be I, myself; more, well than I. and say, would you not

rather coast here and keep the city under water?”



she could not refrain from confess that she would be glad never to

land there.



“so, when you land, go straight to your father,” say Beauchamp, to

whose conception it be a simple act result from the avowal.



“oh! you torture I,” she cry. her eyelash be heavy with tear.

“I cannot do it. think what you will of I! and, my friend, help I.

should you not help I? I have not once actually disobey my father,

and he have indulge I, but he have be sure of I as a dutiful girl.

that be my source of self-respect. my friend can always be my friend.”



“yes, while it’s not too late,” say Beauchamp.



she observe a sudden string of his feature. he call to the chief

boatman, make his command intelligible to that portly capitano, and

go on to Roland, who be puff his after-breakfast cigarette in

conversation with the tolerant English lady.



“you condescend to notice we, Signor Beauchamp,” say Roland. “the

vessel be up to some manœuvre?”



“we have decide not to land,” reply Beauchamp. “and Roland,” he

check the Frenchman’s shout of laughter, “I think of make for

Trieste. let I speak to you, to both. Renée be in misery. she must not

go back.”



Roland spring to his foot, stare, and walk over to Renée.



“Nevil,” say Rosamund Culling, “do you know what you be do?”



“perfectly,” say he. “come to she. she be a girl, and I must think and

act for she.”



Roland meet they.



“my dear nevil, be you in a state of delusion? Renée deny...”



“there’s no delusion, Roland. I be determined to stop a catastrophe. I

see it as plainly as those Alps. there be only one way, and that’s the

one I have choose.”



“choose! my friend. but allow I to remind you that you have other to

consult. and Renée herself...”



“she be a girl. she love I, and I speak for she.”



“she have say it?”



“she have more than say it.”



“you strike I to the deck, Nevil. either you be downright mad—which

seem the likeliest, or we be all in a nightmare. can you suppose I

will let my sister be carry away the deuce know where, while her

father be expect she, and to fulfil an engagement affect his

pledge word?”



Beauchamp simply reply:



“come to she.”









CHAPTER X.

a SINGULAR COUNCIL





the four sit together under the shadow of the helmsman, by whom they

be regard as voyager in debate upon the question of some hour

far on salt water. “no bora,” he throw in at interval, to assure

they that the obnoxious wind of the adriatic need not disturb their

calculation.



it be an extraordinary sitting, but none of the party to it think

of it so when Nevil Beauchamp have plunge they into it. he compel

they, even Renée—and she would have fly have there be wing on her

shoulder—to feel something of the life and death issue present to his

soul, and submit to the discussion, in plain language of the

market-place, of the most delicate of human subject for she, for he,

and hardly less for the other two. an overmaster fervour can do

this. it upset the vessel we float in, and we have to swim our way out

of deep water by the direct use of the natural faculty, without

much reflection on the change in our habit. to other not under such

an influence the position seem impossible. this discussion occur.

Beauchamp open the case in a couple of sentence, and when the turn

come for Renée to speak, and she shrink from the task in manifest pain,

he speak for she, and no one hear her contradiction. she would have

wish the fearful impetuous youth to succeed if she could have sleep

through the storm he be rouse.



Roland appeal to she. “you! my sister! it be you that consent to this

wild freak, enough to break your father’s heart?”



he have really forget his knowledge of her character—what much he

know—in the dust of the desperation fling about she by Nevil Beauchamp.



she shake her head; she have not consent.



“the man she love be her voice and her will,” say Beauchamp. “she

give I her hand and I lead she.”



Roland question she. it could not be deny that she have give she

hand, and her bewildered sense make she think that it have be with an

entire abandonment; and in the heat of her conflict of feeling, the

deliciousness of yield to he curl round and enclose she, as in a

cool hum sea-shell.



“Renée!” say Roland.



“Brother!” she cry.



“you see that I cannot suffer you to be bear away.”



“no; do not!”



but the boat be fly fast from Venice, and she could have fall at

his foot and kiss they for not countermand it.



“you be in my charge, my sister.”



“yes.”



“and now, Nevil, between we two,” say Roland.



Beauchamp require no challenge. he seem, to Rosamund Culling, twice

old than he be, strangely adept, yet more strangely wise of worldly

matter, and eloquent too. but it be the eloquence of frenzy, madness,

in Roland’s ear. the arrogation of a terrible foresight that harp on

present and future to persuade he of the righteousness of this

headlong proceeding advocate by his friend, vex his natural

equanimity. the argument be out of the domain of logic. he could

hardly sit to listen, and tear at his moustache at each end.

nevertheless his sister listen. the mad Englishman accomplish the

miracle of make she listen, and appear to consent.



Roland laugh scornfully. “why Trieste? I ask you, why Trieste? you

cann’t have a catholic priest at your bidding, without her father’s

sanction.”



“we leave Renée at Trieste, under the care of madame,” say Beauchamp,

“and we return to Venice, and I go to your father. this method protect

Renée from annoyance.”



“it strike I that if she arrive at any determination she must take

the consequence.”



“she do. she be brave enough for that. but she be a girl; she have to

fight the battle of her life in a day, and I be her lover, and she

leave it to I.”



“be my sister such a coward?” say Roland.



Renée could only call out his name.



“it will never do, my dear Nevil”; Roland try to deal with his

unreasonable friend affectionately. “I be responsible for she. it’s

your own fault—if you have not save my life I should not have be in

your way. here I be, and your proposal cann’t be hear of. do as you

will, both of you, when you step ashore in Venice.”



“if she go back she be lose,” say Beauchamp, and he attack Roland

on the side of his love for Renée, and for he.



Roland be inflexible. see which, Renée say, “to Venice, quickly,

my brother!” and now she almost sigh with relief to think that she

be escape from this hurricane of a youth, who sweep she off her foot

and wrapt her whole be in a delirium.



“we be in sight of the city just now!” cry Roland, stare and

frown. “what’s this?”



Beauchamp answer he calmly, “the boat’s under my order.”



“talk madness, but don’t act it,” say Roland. “round with the boat at

once. hundred devil! you haven’t your wit.”



to his amazement, Beauchamp refuse to alter the boat’s present course.



“you hear my sister?” say Roland.



“you frighten she,” say Beauchamp.



“you hear her wish to return to Venice, I say.”



“she have no wish that be not mine.”



it come to Roland’s shout his command to the man, while Beauchamp

point the course on for they.



“you will make this a ghastly pleasantry,” say Roland.



“I do what I know to be right,” say Beauchamp.



“you want an altercation before these fellow?”



“there willn’t be one; they obey I.”



Roland blink rapidly in wrath and doubt of mind.



“Madame,” he stoop to Rosamund Culling, with a happy inspiration,

“convince he; you have know he long than I, and I desire not to

lose my friend. and tell I, madame—I can trust you to be truth itself,

and you can see it be actually the time for truth to be speak—be he

justify in take my sister’s hand? you perceive that I be oblige to

appeal to you. be he not dependent on his uncle? and be he not,

therefore, in your opinion, bind in reason as well as in honour to

wait for his uncle’s approbation before he undertake to speak for my

sister? and, since the occasion be urgent, let I ask you one thing

more: whether, by your knowledge of his position, you think he

entitle to presume to decide upon my sister’s destiny? she, you be

aware, be not so young but that she can speak for herself...”



“there you be wrong, Roland,” say Beauchamp; “she can neither speak

nor think for herself: you lead she blindfold.”



“and you, my friend, suppose that you be wise than any of we. it be

understand. I venture to appeal to madame on the point in question.”



the poor lady’s heart beat dismally. she be constrain to answer, and

say, “his uncle be one who must be consult.”



“you hear that, Nevil,” say Roland.



Beauchamp look at she sharply; angrily, Rosamund fear. she have

strike his hot brain with the vision of Everard Romfrey as with a bar

of iron. if Rosamund have incline to the view that he be sure of his

uncle’s support, it would have seem to he a simple confirmation of

his sentiment, but he be not of the same temper now as when he

exclaim, “let he see she!” and could imagine, give he only Renée’s

love, the world of man subservient to his wish.



then he be dream; he be now in fiery earnest, for that reason

accessible to fact present to he; and Rosamund’s reluctantly speak

word bring his stubborn uncle before his eye, inflict a sense of

helplessness of the bitter kind.



they be all silent. beauchamp stare at the line of the deck-plank.



his scheme to rescue Renée be right and good; but be he the man that

should do it? and be she, moreover, he think—speculate on her bent

head—the woman to be force to brave the world with he, and poverty?

she give he no sign. he be assuredly not the man to pretend to power

he do not feel himself to possess, and though from a personal, and

still more from a lover’s, inability to see all round he at one time

and accurately to weigh the force at his disposal, he have go far, he

be not a wilful dreamer nor so very selfish a lover. the instant his

consciousness of a superior strength fail he he acknowledge it.



Renée do not look up. she have none of those lightning of primitive

energy, nor the noble rashness and reliance on her lover, which his

imagination have fill she with; none. that be plain. she could not

even venture to second he. have she do so he would have hold out. he

walk to the head of the boat without reply.



soon after this the boat be set for Venice again.



when he rejoin his companion he kiss Rosamund’s hand, and Renée,

despite a confused feeling of humiliation and anger, love he for it.



Glittering Venice be now in sight; the dome of Sta. Maria Salute

shine like a globe of salt.



Roland fling his arm round his friend’s neck, and say, “forgive I.”



“you do what you think right,” say Beauchamp.



“you be a perfect man of honour, my friend, and a woman would adore

you. girl be straw. it’s part of Renée’s religion to obey her

father. that’s why I be astonish!... I owe you my life, and I would

willingly give you my sister in part payment, if I have the giving of

she; most willingly. the case be, that she’s a child, and you?”



“yes, I’m dependent,” Beauchamp assent. “I cann’t act; I see it. that

scheme want two to carry it out: she have no courage. I feel that I

could carry the day with my uncle, but I cann’t subject she to the

risk, since she dread they; I see it. yes, I see that! I should have

do well, I believe; I should have save she.”



“run to England, get your uncle’s consent, and then try.”



“no; I shall go to her father.”



“my dear Nevil, and suppose you have Renée to back you—suppose it,

I say—won’t you be fall on exactly the same bayonet-point?”



“if I leave she!” Beauchamp interject. he perceive the quality of

Renée’s unformed character which he could not express.



“but we be to suppose that she love you?”



“she be a girl.”



“you return, my friend, to the place you start from, as you do on

the canal without know it. in my opinion, frankly, she be well

married. and I think so all the more after this morning’s lesson. you

understand plainly that if you leave she she will soon be pliant to the

legitimate authority; and why not?”



“listen to I, Roland. I tell you she love I. I be bind to she, and

when—if ever I see her unhappy, I will not stand by and look on

quietly.”



Roland shrug. “the future not be bear, my friend, we will abstain

from baptize it. for I, less privileged than my fellow, I have

never see the future. consequently I be not in love with it, and to

declare myself candidly I do not care for it one snap of the finger.

let we follow our usage, and attend to the future at the hour of its

delivery. I prefer the sage-femme to the prophet. from my heart, Nevil,

I wish I could help you. we have charge great gun together, but a

family arrangement be something different from a hostile battery.

there’s Venice! and, as soon as you land, my responsibility’s end.

reflect, I pray you, on what I have say about girl. upon my word, I

discover myself talk wisdom to you. girl be precious fragility.

marriage be the mould for they; they get shape, substance, solidity:

that be to say, sense, passion, a will of their own: and grace and

tenderness, delicacy; all out of the rude, raw, quake creature we

call girl. Paris! my dear Nevil. Paris! it’s the book of woman.”



the grandeur of the decayed sea-city, where folly have dance parisianly

of old, spread brood along the water in morning light; beautiful;

but with that inner light of history see through the beauty Venice be

like a lowered banner. the great white dome and the campanili watch

above she be still brave emblem. would Paris leave sign of an

ancient vigour standing to vindicate dignity when her fall come? Nevil

thought of Renée in Paris.



she avoid he. she have retire behind her tent-curtain, and

reappear only when her father’s voice hail the boat from a gondola.

the count and the marquis be sit together, and there be a spare

gondola for the voyager, so that they should not have to encounter

another babel of the riva. salute be perform with lift hat,

nod, and bow.



“well, my dear child, it have all be very wonderful and

uncomfortable?” say the count.



“wonderful, papa; splendid.”



“no qualm of any kind?”



“none, I assure you.”



“and madame?”



“Madame will confirm it, if you find a seat for she.”



Rosamund Culling be receive in the count’s gondola, cordially

thank, and place beside the marquis.



“I stay on board and pay these fellow,” say Roland.



Renée be tell by her father to follow madame. he have jump into the

spare gondola and offer a seat to Beauchamp.



“no,” cry Renée, arrest Beauchamp, “it be I who mean to sit with

papa.”



up spring the marquis with an entreating, “Mademoiselle!”



“M. Beauchamp will entertain you, M. le Marquis.”



“I want he here,” say the count; and Beauchamp show that his wish

be to enter the count’s gondola, but Renée have recover her aplomb,

and decisively say “no,” and Beauchamp have to yield.



that would have be an opportunity of speak to her father without a

formal asking of leave. she know it as well as Nevil Beauchamp.



Renée take his hand to be assist in the step down to her father’s

arm, murmur:



“do nothing—nothing! until you hear from I.”









CHAPTER XI.

CAPTAIN baskelett





our England, meanwhile, be bustle over the extinguished war,

count the cost of it, with a rather rueful eye on Manchester, and

soothe the tax by an exhibition of hero at brilliant feast. of

course, the first to come home have the cream of the praise. she hug

they in a manner somewhat suffocate to modest man, but heroism must

be bring to bear upon these excess of maternal admiration; modesty,

too, when it accept the place of honour at a public banquet, should

not protest overmuch. to be just, the early arrival, which be

such as reach the shore of Albion before her war be at an end, do

cordially reciprocate the hug. they be teach, and they believe most

naturally, that it be quite as well to repose upon her bosom as to

have stick to their post. surely there be a conscious weakness in the

Spartans, who be always at pain to discipline their man in heroical

conduct, and reward none save the stand-fast. a system of that sort

seem to betray the sense of poverty in the article. our England do

nothing like it. all be welcome home to she so long as she be in want

of they. besides, she have to please the taxpayer. you may track a

shadowy line or crazy zigzag of policy in almost every stroke of her

domestic history: either it be the forethought find it necessary to

stir up an impulse, or else dash impulse give a lively pull to the

afterthought: policy become evident somehow, clumsily very possibly.

how can she manage an enormous middle-class, to keep it happy, other

than a little clumsily? the managing of it at all be the wonder. and

not only have she to stupefy the taxpayer by a timely display of

feasting and firework, she have to stop all that nonsense (to quote a

satiate man lighten in his purse) at the right moment, about the

hour when the old standfast, who have simply be do duty, return,

poor jog-trot fellow, and a complimentary motto or two be the utmost

she can present to they. on the other hand, it be true she give she

first love, those early bird, fully to understand that a change have

come in their island mother’s mind. if there be a balance to be

right, she leave that business to society, and if it be the season

for the gathering of society, it will be right more or less; and if

no righting be do at all, perhaps the Press will incidentally toss a

leaf of laurel on a name or two: thus in the exercise of grumble

do good.



with few exception, Nevil Beauchamp’s hero receive the motto

instead of the sweetmeat. England expect they to do their duty; they

do it, and she be not dissatisfied, nor should they be. beauchamp, at

a distance from the scene, chafe with customary vehemence, concern

the unjust measure deal to his favourite: Captain Hardist, of the

_diome_, twenty year a captain, still a captain! Young Michell deny

the cross! Colonel Evans Cuff, on the height from first to last, and

not advance a step! but Prancer, and Plunger, and Lammakin be

thoroughly _well take care of_, this critic of the war write savagely,

revive an echo of a queer small circumstance occur in the midst

of the high dolour and anxiety of the whole nation, and which a politic

country prefer to forget, as we will do, for it be but an instance

of strong family feeling in high quarter; and be not the unity of the

country found on the integrity of the family sentiment? be it not

certain, which the master tell we, that a line be but a continuation

of a number of dot? Nevil Beauchamp be for insist that great

Government officer have pay more attention to a dot or two than to the

line. he appear to be at war with his country after the peace. so far

he have a lively ally in his uncle Everard; but these remark of his

be a portion of a letter, whose chief burden be the request that

Everard Romfrey would back he in propose for the hand of a young

french lady, she be, Beauchamp smoothly acknowledge, engage to a

wealthy French marquis, under the approbation of her family. could

mortal folly outstrip a petition of that sort? and apparently,

accord to the wording and emphasis of the letter, it be the mature

age of the marquis which make Mr. Beauchamp so particularly desirous to

stop the project marriage and take the girl himself. he appeal to

his uncle on the subject in a “really—really” remonstrative tone, quite

overwhelming to read. “it ought not to be permit: by all the law of

chivalry, I should write to the girl’s father to interdict it: I really

be particep crimini in a sin against nature if I don’t!” Mr. Romfrey

interject in burlesque of his ridiculous nephew, with collapse

laughter. but he express an indignant surprise at Nevil for allow

Rosamund to travel alone.



“I can take very good care of myself,” Rosamund protest.



“you can do hundred of thing you should never be oblige to do while

he’s at hand, or I, ma’am,” say Mr. Romfrey. “the fellow’s insane. he

forget a gentleman’s duty. here’s his ‘humanity’ dog a french

frock, and pooh!—the age of the marquis! fifty? a man’s begin his

prime at fifty, or there never be much man in he. it’s the mark of a

fool to take everybody for a big fool than himself—or he wouldn’t

have write this letter to I. he cann’t come home yet, not yet, and he

don’t know when he can! have he throw up the service? I be to

preserve the alliance between England and France by get this french

girl for he in the tooth of her marquis, at my peril if I refuse!”



Rosamund ask, “will you let I see where Nevil say that, sir?”



Mr. Romfrey tear the letter to strip. “he’s one of your fellow who

cock their eye when they mean to be cunning. he send you to do the

wheedling, that’s plain. I don’t say he have hit on a bad advocate; but

tell he I back he in no mortal marriage till he show a pair of

epaulette on his shoulder. tell he lieutenant be fledgling—he’s

not marriageable at present. it’s a very pretty sacrifice of himself he

intend for the sake of the alliance, tell he that, but a lieutenant’s

not quite big enough to establish it. you will know what to tell he,

ma’am. and say, it’s the fellow’s good friend that advise he to be

out of it and home quick. if he make one of a french trio, he’s

dished. he’s too late for his luck in England. have he out of that

mire, we cann’t hope for more now.”



Rosamund postpone her mission to plead. her heart be with Nevil; she

understanding be easily lead to side against he, and for well

reason than Mr. Romfrey could be aware of: so she be assure by her

experience of the character of Mademoiselle de Croisnel. a certain

belief in her personal art of persuasion have stop she from write

on her homeward journey to inform he that Nevil be not accompany

she, and when she drive over Steynham Common, triumphal arch and the

odour of a roasting ox richly brown to celebrate the hero’s return

afflict her mind with all the solid argument of a common-sense

country in contravention of a wild lover’s vaporous extravagance. why

have he not come with she? the disappointed ox put the question in a

waver drop of the cheer of the villager at the sight of the

carriage without their bleed hero. Mr. Romfrey, at his hall-door,

merely screw his eyebrow; for it be the quality of this gentleman

to foresee most human event, and his capacity to stifle astonishment

when they trifle with his prognostic. Rosamund have leave nevil fast

bind in the mesh of the young french sorceress, no long lead,

but submissively follow, expect blindly, see strange new

virtue in the lurid indication of what appear to border on the

reverse. how could she plead for her infatuated darling to one who be

common sense in person?



Everard’s point interrogation reduce she to speak defensively,

instead of attack and claim his aid for the poor enamoured young

man. she dared not say that Nevil continue to be absent because he be

now encourage by the girl to remain in attendance on she, and be more

than half inspire to hope, and too artfully assist to deceive the

count and the marquis under the guise of simple friendship. letter

pass between they in book give into one another’s hand with an

audacious openness of the sad augury for the future of the pair,

and Nevil could be so lose to reason as to glory in Renée’s

intrepidity, which he justify by their mutual situation, and

cherish for a proof that she be get courage. in fine, Rosamund

abandon her task of plead. Nevil’s communication give the case a

bad and bad aspect: Renée be prepared to speak to her father; she

delay it; then the two be to part; they be unable to perform the

terrible sacrifice and slay their last hope; and then Nevil write of

destiny—language hitherto unknown to he, evidently the tongue of

Renée. he slip on from Italy to France. his uncle be besiege by a

series of letter, and his cousin, Cecil Baskelett, a captain in

England’s grand reserve force—her Horse Guards, of the blue

division—help Everard Romfrey to laugh over they.



it be not difficult, alack! letter of a lover in an extremity of

love, cry for help, be as curious to cool strong man as the

contortion of the proved heterodox tie to a stake must have be to

their chasten ecclesiastical judge. why go to the fire when a

recantation will save you from it? why not break the excruciating

faggot-band, and escape, when you have only to decide to do it? we

naturally ask why. those martyr of love or religion be madman.

altogether, Nevil’s adjuration and supplication, his threat of wrath

and appeal to reason, be an odd mixture. “he willn’t lose a chance

while there’s breath in his body,” Everard say, quite good-humouredly,

though he deplore that the chance for the fellow to make his

hero-parade in society, and haply catch an heiress, be wane. there

be an heiress at Steynham, on her way with her father to Italy, very

anxious to see her old friend Nevil—Cecilia Halkett—and very

inquisitive this young lady of sixteen be to know the cause of his

absence. she hear of it from Cecil.



“and one morning last week mademoiselle be run away with he, and

the next morning she be married to her marquis!”



Cecil be able to tell she that.



“I use to be so fond of he,” say the ingenuous young lady. she have

to thank Nevil for a circassian dress and pearl, which he have send to

she by the hand of Mrs. Culling—a pretty present to a girl in the

nursery, she think, and in fact she choose to be a little wound by

the cause of his absence.



“he’s a good creature-really,” Cecil speak on his cousin’s behalf.

“mad; he always will be mad. a dear old savage; always amuse I. he

do! I get half my entertainment from he.”



Captain Baskelett be gift with the art, which be a fine and a

precious one, of priceless value in society, and not want a

benediction upon it in our elegant literature, namely, the art of

strip his fellow-man and so posture he as to make every movement

of the comical wretch puppet-like, constrained, stiff, and foolish. he

could present you heroical action in that fashion; for example:



“a long-shank trooper, bear the name of John Thomas Drew, be

crawl along under fire of the battery. out pop old Nevil, try

to get the man on his back. it willn’t do. nevil insist that it’s

exactly one of the case that ought to be, and they remain argue

about it like a pair of nine-pin while the muscovite be at work with

the bowl. very well. let I tell you my story. it’s perfectly true, I

give you my word. so Nevil try to horse Drew, and Drew propose to

horse Nevil, as at school. then Drew offer a compromise. he would much

rather have crawl on, you know, and allow the shot to pass over his

head; but he’s a Briton, old Nevil the same; but old Nevil’s

peculiarity be that, as you be aware, he hate a compromise—won’t have

it—retro Sathanas! and Drew’s proposal to take his arm instead of be

carry pickaback disgust old Nevil. still it willn’t do to stop where

they be, like the cocoa-nut and the pincushion of our friend, the

gipsy, on the down: so they take arm and commence the journey home,

resemble the good of friend on the evening of a holiday in our

native clime—two step to the right, half-a-dozen to the left,

etcætera.”



thus, with scarce a variation from the fact, with but a flowery

chaplet cast on a truthful narrative, as it be, Captain Baskelett

could render ludicrous that which in other quarter have obtain

honourable mention. Nevil and Drew be knock down by the wind of a

ball near the battery, “confound it!” cry Nevil, jump on his foot,

“it’s because I consent to a compromise!”—a transparent piece of

fiction this, but so in harmony with the character strip naked for

we that it be accept. Imagine Nevil’s love-affair in such hand!

recover from a fever, Nevil see a pretty french girl in a gondola,

and immediately think, “by jingo, I’m marriageable.” he hear she be

engaged. “by jingo, she’s marriageable too.” he go through a sum in

addition, and the total be a couple; so he determine on a marriage.

“you cann’t get it out of his head; he must be marry instantly, and to

she, because she be go to marry somebody else. stick to she,

follow she, will have she, in spite of her father, her marquis, her

brother, aunt, cousin, religion, country, and the young woman

herself. I assure you, a perfect model of male fidelity! she be

married. he be on her track. he know his time will come; he have only

to be handy. you see, old Nevil believe in Providence, be perfectly

sure he will one day hear it cry out, ‘where’s Beauchamp?’—‘Here I

am!’—‘And here’s your marquise!’—‘I know I should have she at last,’

say Nevil, calm as Mont Blanc on a reduced scale.”



the secret of Captain Baskelett’s art would seem to be to show the

automatic human creature at loggerhead with a necessity that wink at

remarkable pretension, while condemn it perpetually to doll-like

action. you look on man from your own elevation as upon a quantity of

our little wooden image, unto whom you affix puny characteristic,

under restriction from which they shall not escape, though they

attempt it with the enterprising vigour of an extended leg, or a pair

of raise arm, or a head awry, or a trick of jumping; and some of they

be extraordinarily addicted to these feat; but for all they do the

end be the same, for necessity rule, that exactly so, under stress of

activity must the doll Nevil, the doll Everard, or the dolli of

doll, fair woman, behave. the automatic creature be subject to the

law of its construction, you perceive. it can this, it can that, but

it cannot leap out of its mechanism. one definition of the art be,

humour make easy, and that may be why Cecil Baskelett indulge in it,

and why it be popular with those whose humour consist of a readiness

to laugh.



the fun between Cecil Baskelett and Mr. Romfrey over the doll Nevil

threaten an intimacy and community of sentiment that alarm Rosamund

on behalf of her darling’s material prospect. she write to he,

entreat he to come to Steynham. Nevil Beauchamp reply to she both

frankly and shrewdly: “I shall not pretend that I forgive my uncle

Everard, and therefore it be good for I to keep away. have no fear.

the baron like a man of his own taste: they may laugh together, if it

suit they; he never could be guilty of treachery, and to disinherit I

would be that. if I be to become his open enemy to-morrow, I should

look on the estate as mine—unless I do anything to make he

disrespect I. you will not suppose it likely. I foresee I shall want

money. as for Cecil, I give he as much rope as he care to have. I

know very well Everard Romfrey will see where the point of likeness

between they stop. I apply for a ship the moment I land.”



to test Nevil’s judgement of his uncle, Rosamund venture on show

this letter to Mr. Romfrey. he read it, and say nothing, but

subsequently ask, from time to time, “have he get his ship yet?” it

assure she that Nevil be not wrong, and dispel her notion of the

vulgar imbroglio of a rich uncle and two thirsty nephew. she be

hardly less relieved in reflect that he could read man so soberly

and accurately. the desperation of the youth in love have render she

one little bit doubtful of the orderliness of his wit. after this she

smile on Cecil’s assiduity. Nevil obtain his appointment to a ship

bind for the coast of Africa to spy for slaver. he call on his

uncle in London, and spend the great part of the hour’s visit with

Rosamund; seem cure of his passion, devoid of rancour, glad of the

prospect of a run among the slaving hull. he and his uncle shake hand

manfully, at the full outstretch of their arm, in a way so like they,

to Rosamund’s thinking—that be, in a way so unlike any other possible

couple of man so situated—that the humour of the sight eclipse all the

pleasantry of Captain Baskelett. “good-bye, sir,” Nevil say

heartily; and Everard Romfrey be not behind-hand with the cordial ring

of his “good-bye, Nevil”; and upon that they separate. Rosamund would

have be willing to speak to her beloved of his false Renée—the

Frenchwoman, she term she, _i.e._ generically false, needless to

name; and one question quiver on her tongue’s tip: “how, when she have

promise to fly with you, _how could she_ the very next day step to the

altar with he now her husband?” and, if she have speak it, she would

have add, “your uncle could not have set his face against you, have

you bring she to England.” she feel strongly the mastery Nevil

Beauchamp could exercise even over his uncle Everard. but when he be

go, unquestione, merely caress, it come to her mind that he have

all through insist on his possession of this particular power, and

she accuse herself of having wantonly help to ruin his hope—a matter

to be rejoice at in the abstract; but what suffer she have inflict

on he! to quiet her heart, she persuade herself that for the future

she would never fail to believe in he and second he blindly, as true

love should; and contemplate one so brave, far-sight, and

self-assure, her determination seem to impose the light of task.



practically humane though he be, and especially toward cattle and all

kind of beast, Mr. Romfrey entertain no profound fellow-feeling for

the negro, and, except as the representative of a certain amount of

working power commonly require the whip to wind it up, he incline to

despise that black spot in the creation, with which our civilization

should never have have anything to do. so he pronounce his mind, and

the long habit of listen to oracle might grow we ear to hear and

discover a meaning in it. Nevil’s capture and release of the grinning

freight amuse he for awhile. he compare they to string of banana,

and presently put the vision of the whole business aside by talk of

Nevil’s banana-wreath. he desire to have Nevil out of it. he and Cecil

hand Nevil in his banana-wreath about to their friend. Nevil, in his

banana-wreath, be set preach “humanitomtity.” at any rate, they

contrive to keep the remembrance of Nevil Beauchamp alive during the

period of his disappearance from the world, and in so do they do

he a service.



there be a pause between the descent of a diver and his return to the

surface, when those who would not have he forget by the well

world above he do rightly to relate anecdote of he, if they can, and

to provoke laughter at he. the encouragement of the humane sense of

superiority over an object of interest, which laughter give, be good

for the object; and besides, if you begin to tell sly story of one in

the deep who be hold his breath to fetch a pearl or two for you

all, you divert a particular sympathetic oppression of the chest, that

the extremely sensitive be apt to suffer from, and you dispose the

large number to keep in mind a person they no long see. otherwise it

be likely that he will, very shortly after he have make his plunge,

fatigue the contemplative brain above, and be shuffle off they, even

as great ocean smooth away the dear vanish man’s immediate circle

of foam, and rapidly confound the ripple memory of he with its

other agitation. and in such a case the apparition of his head upon

our common level once more will almost certainly cause a disagreeable

shock; nor be it improbable that his first natural snort in his native

element, though they be simply to obtain his share of the breath of

life, will draw down on he condemnation for eccentric behaviour and

unmannerly; and this in spite of the jewel he bring, unless it be an

exceedingly splendid one. the reason be, that our brave world cannot

pardon a breach of continuity for any petty bribe.



thus it chance, owe to the prolonged effort of Mr. Romfrey and

Cecil Baskelett to get fun out of he, at the cost of considerable

inventiveness, that the electoral Address of the candidate, sign

himself “R. C. S. Nevil Beauchamp,” to the borough of Bevisham, do not

issue from an altogether unremembered man.



he have be cruise in the Mediterranean, command the _Ariadne_,

the smart corvette in the service. he have, it be widely make know,

meet his marquise in Palermo. it be presume that he be dance the

round with she still, when this amazing Address appear on Bevisham’s

wall, in anticipation of the general Election. the Address, moreover,

be ultra-radical: museum to be open on Sundays; ominous reference

to the Land question, etc.; no smooth pass mention of reform, such

as the Liberal, become stately, adopt in speak of that property of

his, but swinge blow on the head of many a denounced iniquity.



Cecil forward the Address to Everard Romfrey without comment.



next day the follow letter, date from Itchincope, the house of Mr.

Grancey Lespel, on the border of Bevisham, arrive at Steynham:



“I have despatch you the proclamation, fold neatly. the elector of

Bevisham be summon, like a town at the sword’s point, to yield he

their vote. Proclamation be the word. I be your bear representative! I

have complete my political education on salt water, and I tackle you

on the Land question. I be the heir of your vote, gentlemen!—I forgot,

and I apologize; he call they fellow-man. Fraternal, and not so risky.

here at Lespel’s we read the thing with shout. it hang in the

smoking-room. we throw open the curacoa to the intelligence and

industry of the assemble guest; we carry the right of the multitude

to our host’s cigar by a majority. C’est un farceur que notre bon

petit cousin. Lespel say it be sailorlike to do something of this sort

after a cruise. Nevil’s Radicalism would have be clever anywhere out

of Bevisham. of all borough! Grancey Lespel know it. he and his

family be Bevisham’s Whig M.P.“s before the day of Manchester. in

Bevisham an election be an arrangement make by Providence to square the

account of the voter, and settle arrear. they reckon up the health

of their two member and the chance of an appeal to the country when

they fix the rent and lease. you have they point out to you in the

street, with their figure attach to they like title. Mr. Tomkins,

the twenty-pound man; an elector of uncommon purity. I see the ruffian

yesterday. he have an extra breadth to his hat. he have never be know

to listen to a member under £20, and be respect enormously—like the

lady of the Mythology, who be an intolerable Tartar of virtue, because

her price be nothing less than a god, and money down. nevil will have

to come down on Bevisham in the Jupiter style. Bevisham be downright

the dearest of boroughs—‘vaulting-board,’ as Stukely Culbrett call

they—in the kingdom. I assume we still say ‘kingdom.’



“he dash into the radical trap exactly two hour after land. I

believe he be on his way to the Halketts at Mount Laurels. a notorious

old rascal revolutionist retire from his licenced business of

slaughterer—one of your _gratis_ doctor—meet he on the high-road, and

tell he he be the man. up go Nevil’s enthusiasm like a bottle rid

of the cork. you will see a great deal about faith in the proclamation;

‘faith in the future,’ and ‘my faith in you.’ when you become a Radical

you have faith in any quantity, just as an alderman get turtle soup.

it be your badge, like a livery-servant’s cockade or a corporal’s

sleeve stripe—your badge and your bellyful. calculation be go

through at the Liberal newspaper-office, old Nevil add up hard, and

he be inform that he be elect by something like a top eight

or nine hundred and some fraction. I be sure that a fellow who can let

himself be gull by a pile of figure trump up in a Radical

newspaper-office must have great faith in the fraction. out come

Nevil’s proclamation.



“I have not meet he, and I would rather not. I shall not pretend to

offer you advice, for I have the habit of think your judgement can

stand by itself. we shall all find this affair a nuisance. nevil will

pay through the nose. we shall have the ridicule spatter on the

family. it would be a safe thing for he to invest his money on the

Turf, and I shall advise his do it if I come across he.



“perhaps the good course would be to telegraph for the marquise!”



this be from Cecil Baskelett. he add a postscript:



“seriously, the ‘mad commander’ have not an ace of a chance. Grancey and

I see some Working Men (you have to write they in capital, king and

queen small); they be read the Address on a board carry by a

red-nosed man, and shrug. they be not such fool.



“by the way, I be inform Shrapnel have a young female relative living

with he, say to be a sparkler. I bet you, sir, she be not a Radical.

do you take I?”



Rosamund Culling drive to the railway station on her way to Bevisham

within an hour after Mr. Romfrey’s eyebrow have make acute play over

this communication.









CHAPTER XII.

an INTERVIEW with the INFAMOUS DR. SHRAPNEL





in the high street of the ancient and famous town and port of Bevisham,

Rosamund meet the military governor of a neighbouring fortress, General

Sherwin, once colonel of her husband’s regiment in India; and by he,

as it happen, she be assist in find the whereabout of the young

liberal candidate, without the degrading recourse of an application at

the newspaper-office of his party. the General be leisurely walk to

a place of appointment to fetch his daughter home from a visit to an

old school-friend, a Miss Jenny Denham, no other than a ward, or a

niece, or an adoption of Dr. Shrapnel’s: “a nice girl; a great

favourite of mine,” the General say. shrapnel he know by reputation

only as a wrong-head politician; but he speak of Miss Denham

pleasantly two or three time, praise her accomplishment and her

win manner. his hearer suspect that it might be do to

dissociate the idea of she from the ruffle agitator. “be she pretty?”

be a question that spring from Rosamund’s intimate reflection. the

answer be, “yes.”



“very pretty?”



“I think very pretty,” say the General.



“captivatingly?”



“Clara think she be perfect; she be tall and slim, and dress well.

the girl be with a french Madam in Paris. but, if you be interested

about she, you can come on with I, and we shall meet they somewhere

near the head of the street. I don’t,” the General hesitate and

hummed—“I don’t call at Shrapnel’s.”



“I have never hear her name before to-day,” say Rosamund.



“exactly,” say the General, crow at the aimlessness of a woman’s

curiosity.



the young lady be see approach, and Rosamund have to ask herself

whether the first sight of a person like Miss Denham would be of a kind

to exercise a lively influence over the political and other sentiment

of a dreamy sailor just release from ship-service. in an ordinary case

she would have say no, for Nevil enjoy a range of society where

face charming as Miss Denham’s be plentiful as rose in the

rose-garden. but, suppose he free of his bondage to the foreign

woman, there be, she think and fear, a possibility that a girl of

this description might capture a young man’s vacant heart sigh for a

new mistress. and if so, further observation assure her Miss Denham

be likely to be dangerous far more than professedly attractive

person, enchantress and the rest. Rosamund watchfully gather all

the superficial indication which incite woman to judge of character

profoundly. this new object of alarm be, as the General have say of

she, tall and slim, a friend of neatness, plainly dress, but

exquisitely fit, in the manner of Frenchwomen. she speak very

readily, not too much, and have the rare gift of be able to speak

fluently with a smile on the mouth. Vulgar archness imitate it. she

win and retain the eye of her hearer sympathetically, it seem.

Rosamund think she as little conscious as a woman could be. she

colour at time quickly, but without confusion. when that name, the

key of Rosamund’s meditation, chance to be mention, a flush sweep

over Miss Denham’s face. the candour of it be unchanged as she gaze

at Rosamund, with a look that ask, “do you know he?”



Rosamund say, “I be an old friend of his.”



“he be here now, in this town.”



“I wish to see he very much.”



General Sherwin interpose: “we willn’t talk about political character

just for the present.”



“I wish you know he, papa, and would advise he,” his daughter say.



the General nod hastily. “by-and-by, by-and-by.”



they have in fact take seat at a table of mutton pie in a

pastrycook’s shop, where dash military man be restrain solely by

their presence from a too noisy display of fascination before the

fashionable waiting-woman.



Rosamund look at Miss Denham. as soon as they be in the street the

latter say, “if you will be good enough to come with I, madam...?”

Rosamund bow, thankful to have be comprehend. the two young

lady kiss cheek and part. General Sherwin raise his hat, and

be astonish to see Mrs. Culling join Miss Denham in accept the

salute, for they have not be introduce, and what could they have in

common? it be another of the oddity of female nature.



“my name be Mrs. Culling, and I will tell you how it be that I be

interested in Captain Beauchamp,” Rosamund address her companion. “I

be his uncle’s housekeeper. I have know he and love he since he be

a boy. I be in great fear that he be act rashly.”



“you honour I, madam, by speak to I so frankly,” Miss Denham

answer.



“he be quite bent upon this Election?”



“yes, madam. I be not, as you can suppose, in his confidence, but I

hear of he from Dr. Shrapnel.”



“your uncle?”



“I call he uncle: he be my guardian, madam.”



it be perhaps excuseable that this communication do not cause the

doctor to shine with add lustre in Rosamund’s thought, or ennoble

the young lady.



“you be not relative, then?” she say.



“no, unless love can make we so.”



“not blood-relative?”



“no.”



“be he not very... extreme?”



“he be very sincere.”



“I presume you be a politician?”



Miss Denham smile. “could you pardon I, madam, if I say that I be?”

the counter-question be a fair retort enfold a gentler irony.

Rosamund feel that she have to do with wit as well as with vivid

feminine intuition in the person of this Miss Denham.



she say, “I really be of opinion that our sex might abstain from

politic.”



“we find it difficult to do justice to both party,” Miss Denham

follow. “it seem to be a kind of clanship with woman; hardly even

that.”



Rosamund be inattentive to the conversational slipshod, and launch

one of the heavy affirmative which be in dialogue full stop. she

could not have say why she be sensible of anger, but the sentiment of

anger, or spite (if that be a less degree of the same affliction),

became stir in her bosom when she listen to the ward of Dr.

Shrapnel. a silly pretty puss of a girl would not have excite it, nor

an avow blood-relative of the demagogue.



Nevil’s hotel be point out to Rosamund, and she leave her card there.

he have be absent since eight in the morning. there be the

probability that he might be at Dr. Shrapnel’s, so Rosamund walk on.



“Captain Beauchamp give himself no rest,” Miss Denham say.



“oh! I know he, when once his mind be set on anything,” say Rosamund.



“be it not too early to begin to—canvass, I think, be the word?”



“he be study whatever the town can teach he of its want; that be,

how he may serve it.”



“indeed! but if the town will not have he to serve it?”



“he imagine that he cannot do well, until that have be decide,

than to fit himself for the post.”



“act upon your advice? I mean, of course, your uncle’s; that be, Dr.

Shrapnel’s.”



“Dr. Shrapnel think it will not be loss of time for Captain Beauchamp

to grow familiar with the place, and observe as well as read.”



“it sound almost as if Captain Beauchamp have submit to be Dr.

Shrapnel’s pupil.”



“it be natural, madam, that Dr. Shrapnel should know more of political

way at present than Captain Beauchamp.”



“to Captain Beauchamp’s friend and relative it appear very strange

that he should have decide to contest this election so suddenly. may I

inquire whether he and Dr. Shrapnel be old acquaintance?”



“no, madam, they be not. they have never meet before Captain Beauchamp

land, the other day.”



“I be surprised, I confess. I cannot understand the nature of an

influence that induce he to abandon a profession he love and shine

in, for politic, at a moment’s notice.”



Miss Denham be silent, and then say:



“I will tell you, madam, how it occur, as far as circumstance

explain it. Dr. Shrapnel be accustom to give a little country feast

to the child I teach, and their parent if they choose to come, and

they generally do. they be drive to Northeden Heath, where we set up

a booth for they, and try with cake and tea and game to make they

spend one of their happy afternoon and evening. we succeed, I know,

for the little creature talk of it and look forward to the day. when

they be at their last romp, Dr. Shrapnel speak to the parent.”



“can he obtain a hearing?” Rosamund ask.



“he have not so very large a crowd to address, madam, and he be much

belove by those that come.”



“he speak to they of politic on those occasion?”



“_Adouci à leur intention_. it be not a political speech, but Dr.

Shrapnel think, that in a so-call free country seek to be really

free, man of the low class should be educate in form a political

judgement.”



“and woman too?”



“and woman, yes. indeed, madam, we notice that the woman listen very

creditably.”



“they can put on the air.”



“I be afraid, not more than the man do. to get they to listen be

something. they suffer like the man, and must depend on their

intelligence to win their way out of it.”



Rosamund’s meditation be exclamatory: what can be the age of this

pretentious girl?



an afterthought turn she more conciliatorily toward the person, but

less to the subject. she be sure that she be lend ear to the echo

of the dangerous doctor, and rather pity Miss Denham for awhile,

reflect that a young woman stuff with such idea would find it

hard to get a husband. Mention of Nevil revive her feeling of

hostility.



“we have see a gentleman stand near and listen attentively,” Miss

Denham resume, “and when Dr. Shrapnel conclude a card be hand to

he. he read it and give it to I, and say, ‘you know that name.’ it

be a name we have often talk about during the war.



“he go to Captain Beauchamp and shake his hand. he do not pay many

compliment, and he do not like to receive they, but it be

impossible for he not to be move by Captain Beauchamp’s warmth in

thank he for the word he have speak. I see that Dr. Shrapnel

become interested in Captain Beauchamp the long they converse. we

walk home together. Captain Beauchamp sup with we. I leave they at

half-past eleven at night, and in the morning I find they walk in

the garden. they have not go to bed at all. Captain Beauchamp have

remain in Bevisham ever since. he soon come to the decision to be a

candidate for the borough.”



Rosamund check her lip from utter: to be a puppet of Dr.

Shrapnel’s!



she remark, “he be very eloquent—Dr. Shrapnel?”



Miss Denham hold some debate with herself upon the term.



“perhaps it be not eloquence; he often... no, he be not an orator.”



Rosamund suggest that he be persuasive, possibly.



again the young lady deliberately weigh the word, as though the

nice measure of her uncle or adoptor’s quality in this or that

direction be in requisition and of importance—an instance of a want

of delicacy of perception Rosamund be not sorry to detect. for

good-look, refine-look, quick-witted girl can be grow; but the

nimble sense of fitness, ineffable lightning-footed tact, come of race

and breeding, and she be sure Nevil be a man soon to feel the absence

of that.



“Dr. Shrapnel be persuasive to those who go partly with he, or whose

condition of mind call on he for great patience,” Miss Denham say at

last.



“I be only try to comprehend how it be that he should so rapidly

have win Captain Beauchamp to his view,” Rosamund explain; and the

young lady do not reply.



Dr. Shrapnel’s house be about a mile beyond the town, on a common of

thorn and gorse, through which the fir-border highway run. a fence

waist-high enclose its plot of meadow and garden, so that the doctor,

while protect his own, might see and be see of the world, as be

the case when Rosamund approach. he be pace at long slow stride

along the gravel walk, with his head bent and bare, and his hand

behind his back, accompany by a gentleman who could be no other than

Nevil, Rosamund presume to think; but draw near she find she be

mistaken.



“that be not Captain Beauchamp’s figure,” she say.



“no, it be not he,” say Miss Denham.



Rosamund see that her companion be pale. she warm to she at once; by

no mean on account of the pallor in itself.



“I have walk too fast for you, I fear.”



“oh no; I be accuse of be a fast walker.”



Rosamund be unwilling to pass through the demagogue’s gate. on second

thought, she reflect that she could hardly stipulate to have news of

Nevil toss to she over the spike, and she enter.



while receive Dr. Shrapnel’s welcome to a friend of Captain

Beauchamp, she observe the greeting between Miss Denham and the

young gentleman. it reassure she. they meet like two that have a

secret.



the dreaded doctor be an immoderately tall man, lean and wiry,

carelessly clothe in a long loose coat of no colour, loose trowser, and

huge shoe.



he stoop from his height to speak, or rather swing the stiff upper

half of his body down to his hearer’s level and back again, like a

ship’s mast on a billowy sea. he be neither rough nor abrupt, nor do

he roar bullmouthedly as demagogue be expect to do, though his

voice be deep. he be actually, after his fashion, courteous, it could

be say of he, except that his mind be too visibly possess by

distant matter for Rosamund’s taste, she be accustom to

drawing-room and hunting and military gentleman, who can be all in the

word they utter. nevertheless he come out of his lizard-like look with

the down-drop eyelid quick at a resumption of the dialogue;

sometimes gesture, sweep his arm round. a stubborn tuft of

iron-grey hair fall across his forehead, and it be apparently one of

his life’s labour to get it to lie amid the mass, for his hand rarely

cease to be in motion without an impulsive stroke at the refractory

forelock. he peer through his eyelash ordinarily, but from no

infirmity of sight. the truth be, that the man’s nature counteract

his spirit’s intenser eagerness and restlessness by alternate a state

of repose that resemble dormancy, and so preserve he. Rosamund be

oblige to give he credit for straightforward eye when they do look

out and flash. their filmy blue, half overflown with grey by age, be

poignant while the fire in they last. her antipathy attribute

something electrical to the light they shoot.



Dr. Shrapnel’s account of Nevil state he to have go to call on

Colonel Halkett, a new resident at Mount Laurels, on the Otley river.

he offer the welcome of his house to the lady who be Captain

Beauchamp’s friend, say, with extraordinary fatuity (so it sound

in Rosamund’s ear), that Captain Beauchamp would certainly not let an

evening pass without come to he. Rosamund suggest that he might

stay late at Mount Laurels.



“then he will arrive here after nightfall,” say the doctor. “a bed be

at your service, ma’am.”



the offer be decline. “I should like to have see he to-day; but he

will be home shortly.”



“he will not quit Bevisham till this Election’s decide unless to hunt

a stray borough vote, ma’am.”



“he go to Mount Laurels.”



“for that purpose.”



“I do not think he will persuade Colonel Halkett to vote in the Radical

interest.”



“that be the probability with a land proprietor, ma’am. we must

knock, whether the door open or not. like,” the doctor laugh to

himself up aloft, “like a watchman in the night to say that he smell

smoke on the premise.”



“surely we may expect Captain Beauchamp to consult his family about so

serious a step as this he be take,” Rosamund say, with an effort to

be civil.



“why should he?” ask the impending doctor.



his head continue in the interrogative position when it have resume

its elevation. the challenge for a definite reply to so outrageous a

question irritated Rosamund’s nerve, and, loth though she be to admit

he to the subject, she could not forbear from say, “why? surely his

family have the first claim on he!”



“surely not, ma’am. there be no first claim. a man’s wife and child

have a claim on he for bread. a man’s parent have a claim on he for

obedience while he be a child. a man’s uncle, aunt, and cousin have

no claim on he at all, except for help in necessity, which he can

grant and they require. none—wife, child, parent, relative—none

have a claim to bar his judgement and his action. sound the conscience,

and sink the family! with a clear conscience, it be good to leave the

family to its own debate. no man ever do brave work who hold counsel

with his family. the family view of a man’s fit conduct be the weak

point of the country. it be no other view than, ‘better thy condition

for our sake.’ ha! in this way we breed sheep, fatten oxen: man be

die off. resolution take, consult the family mean—waste your time!

those who go to it want an excuse for alter their mind. the family

view be everlastingly the shopkeeper’s! purse, pence, ease, increase of

worldly good, personal importance—the pound, the english pound! dare

do that, and you forfeit your share of Port wine in this world; you

willn’t be dub with a title; you’ll be finger at! Lord, Lord! be it

the region inside a man, or out, that give he peace? _out_, they say;

for they have lose faith in the existence of an inner. they haven’t it.

air-sucker, blood-pump, cooking machinery, and a battery of train

instinct, aptitude, fill up their vacuum. I repeat, ma’am, why should

young Captain Beauchamp spend an hour consult his family? they willn’t

approve he; he know it. they may annoy he; and what be the gain of

that? they cann’t move he; on that I let my right hand burn. so it

would be useless on both side. he think so. so do I. he be one of the

man to serve his country on the good field we can choose for he. in a

ship’s cabin he be throw away. ay, ay, War, and he may go aboard. but

now we must have he ashore. too few of such as he!”



“it be matter of opinion,” say Rosamund, very tightly compress;

scarcely know what she say.



how strange, besides hateful, it be to she to hear her darling speak

of by a stranger who not only pretend to appreciate but to possess

he! a stranger, a man of evil, with monstrous idea! a terribly strong

inexhaustible man, of a magical power too; or would he otherwise have

win such a mastery over Nevil?



of course she could have shoot a rejoinder, to confute he with all the

force of her indignation, save that the word be tumble about in

her head like a world in disruption, which make she feel a weakness at

the same time that she gloat on her capacity, as though she have an

enormous army, quite overwhelming if it could but be get to move in

advance. this very common condition of the silent-stricken, unused in

dialectic, heighten Rosamund’s disgust by cause she to suppose

that Nevil have be similarly silence, in his case vanquish,

capture, ruin; and he dwindle in her estimation for a moment or

two. she feel that among a sisterhood of gossip she would soon have

find her voice, and strike down the demagogue’s audacious sophism:

not that they affect she in the slight degree for her own sake.



Shrapnel might think what he like, and say what he like, as far as

she be concern, apart from the man she love. Rosamund go through

these emotion altogether on Nevil’s behalf, and long for she

affirmatize inspire sisterhood until the thought of they throw

another shade on he.



what champion be she to look to? to whom but to Mr. Everard Romfrey?



it be with a spasm of delighted reflection that she hit on Mr.

Romfrey. he be like a discovery to she. with his strength and skill,

his robust common sense and rough shrewd wit, his prompt comparison,

his chivalry, his love of combat, his old knightly blood, be not he a

match, and an overmatch, for the ramp Radical who have tangle Nevil

in his rough snare? she run her mind over Mr. Romfrey’s virtue, down

even to his tower height and breadth. could she but once draw these

two giant into collision in Nevil’s presence, she be sure it would

save he. the method of do it she do not stop to consider: she

enjoy her triumph in the idea.



meantime she have pass from Dr. Shrapnel to Miss Denham, and carry

on a conversation becomingly.



Tea have be make in the garden, and she have politely sip half a

cup, which involve no step inside the guilty house, and therefore no

distress to her antagonism. the sun descend. she hear the doctor

recite. could it be poetry? in her imagination the sombre hue

surround an incendiary oppose that bright spirit. she listen,

smile incredulously. Miss Denham could interpret look, and say,

“Dr. Shrapnel be very fond of those verse.”



Rosamund’s astonishment cause she to say, “be they his own?”—a piece

of satiric innocency at which Miss Denham laugh softly as she

answer, “no.”



Rosamund plead that she have not hear they with any distinctness.



“be they write by the gentleman at his side?”



“Mr. Lydiard? no. he write, but the verse be not his.”



“do he know—have he meet Captain Beauchamp?”



“yes, once. Captain Beauchamp have take a great liking to his work.”



Rosamund close her eye, feel that she be in a nest that have

determine to appropriate Nevil. but at any rate there be the hope and

the probability that this Mr. Lydiard of the pen have take a long start

of Nevil in the heart of Miss Denham: and struggle to be candid, to

ensure some meditative satisfaction, Rosamund admit to herself that

the girl do not appear to be one of the wanton giddy-pat puss who

play two gentleman or more on their line. appearance, however, could

be deceptive: never pretend to know a girl by her face, be one of

Rosamund’s maxim.



she be next informed of Dr. Shrapnel’s partiality for music toward the

hour of sunset. Miss Denham mention it, and the doctor, presently

saunter up, invite Rosamund to a seat on a bench near the open

window of the drawing-room. he nod to his ward to go in.



“I be a fire-worshipper, ma’am,” he say. “the God of day be the father

of poetry, medicine, music: our good friend. see he there! my Jenny

will spin a thread from we to he over the million of mile, with one

touch of the chord, as quick as he shoot a beam on we. ay! on she

wretched tinkler call a piano, which try at the whole orchestra and

murder every instrument in the attempt. but it’s convenient, like our

modern civilization—a taming and a diminishing of individual for an

insipid harmony!”



“you surely do not object to the organ?—I fear I cannot wait, though,”

say Rosamund.



Miss Denham entreat she. “oh! do, madam. not to hear I—I be not so

perfect a player that I should wish it—but to see he. Captain

Beauchamp may now be come at any instant.”



Mr. Lydiard add, “I have an appointment with he here for this

evening.”



“you build a cathedral of sound in the organ,” say Dr. Shrapnel,

cast out a league of leg as he sit beside his only half-persuade

fretful guest. “you subject the wind to serve you; that’s a gain. you

do actually accomplish a resonant imitation of the various instrument;

they sing out as your two hand command they—trumpet, flute, dulcimer,

hautboy, drum, storm, earthquake, ethereal quire; you have they at your

option. but tell I of an organ in the open air? the sublimity would

vanish, ma’am, both from the note and from the structure, because

accessory and circumstance produce its chief effect. say that an

organ be a despotism, just as your piano be the constitutional

bourgeois. match they with the train orchestral band of skilled

individual performer, indoor or out, where each grasp his

instrument, and each rely on his fellow with confidence, and an

unrivalled concord come of it. that be our republic each one to his

work; all in union! there’s the motto for we! _then_ you have music,

harmony, the high, fullest, fine! educate your man to form a band,

you shame dexterous trickery and imitation sound. _then_ for the

difference of real instrument from clever sham! oh, ay, _one_ will

set your organ go; that is, one in front, with his couple of pant

air-pumper behind—his minister!” Dr. Shrapnel laugh at some

undefined mental image, apparently careless of any laugh

companionship. “_one_ will do it for you, especially if he’s bear to do

it. bear!” a slap of the knee report what seem to be an immensely

contemptuous sentiment. “but free mouth blow into brass and wood,

ma’am, beat your bellow and your whiffler; your artificial

chorus—crash, crash! your unanimous plebiscitum! beat they? there’s

no contest: we’re in another world; we’re in the sun’s world,—yonder!”



Miss Denham’s opening note on the despise piano put a curb on the

doctor. she begin a Mass of Mozart’s, without the usual preliminary

rattle of the key, as of a crier announce a performance, straight to

her task, for which Rosamund thank she, like that kind of compose

simplicity: she thank she more for cut short the doctor’s

fanatical nonsense. it be perceptible to she that a species of mad

metaphor have be wriggle and tear its passage through a

thorn-bush in his discourse, with the furious urgency of a sheep in a

panic; but where the ostensible subject end and the metaphor

commence, and which be which at the conclusion, she find it

difficult to discern—much as the sheep would, be when he have leave his

fleece behind he. she could now have say, “silly old man!”



Dr. Shrapnel appear most placable. he be gaze at his Authority in

the heaven, tangle among gold cloud and purple; his head bend

acutely on one side, and his eye upturne in dim speculation. his

great foot plant on their heel face he, suggest the stock; his

arm hang loose. full many a hero of the alehouse, anciently amenable

to leg-and-foot imprisonment in the grip of the parish, have present

as respectable an air. his forelock straggle as it will.



Rosamund rise abruptly as soon as the terminate note of the Mass have

be strike.



Dr. Shrapnel seem to be conclude his devotion before he follow

her example.



“there, ma’am, you have a telegraphic system for the soul,” he say.

“it be hard work to travel from this place to this” (he point at

ear and breast) “than from here to yonder” (a similar indication

traverse the distance between earth and sun). “man’s aim have hitherto

be to keep man from have a soul for _this_ world: he take it for

something infernal. He?—I mean, they that hold power. they shudder to

think the conservatism of the earth will be shake by a change; they

dread they willn’t get man with soul to fetch and carry, dig, root,

mine, for they. Right!—what then? dig and mining will be do; so

will harp and singing. but _then_ we have a natural optimacy! then,

on the one hand, we whip the man-beast and the man-sloth; on the other,

we seize that old fat iniquity—that tyrant! that tempter! that

legitimate swindler curse of Christ! that palpable Satan whose name

be Capital! by the neck, and have he disgorge within three gasp of

his life. he be the villain! let he live, for he too come of blood

and bone. he shall not grind the face of the poor and helpless—that’s

all.”



the comicality of she have such remark address to she provoke a

smile on Rosamund’s lip.



“don’t go at he like Samson blind,” say Mr. Lydiard; and Miss Denham,

who have return, beg her guardian to entreat the guest to stay.



she say in an undertone, “I be very anxious you should see Captain

Beauchamp, madam.”



“I too; but he will write, and I really can wait no long,” Rosamund

reply, in extreme apprehension lest a certain degree of pressure

should overbear her repugnance to the doctor’s dinner-table. Miss

Denham’s look be fix on she; but, whatever it might mean, Rosamund’s

endurance be at an end. she be invite to dine; she refuse. she be

exceedingly glad to find herself on the high-road again, with a

prospect of reach Steynham that night; for it be important that she

should not have to confess a visit to Bevisham now when she have so

little of favourable to tell Mr. Everard Romfrey of his choose nephew.

whether she have act quite wisely in not remain to see Nevil, be

an agitate question that have to be silence by an appeal to her

instinct of repulsion, and a further appeal for justification of they

to her imaginary sisterhood of gossip. how could she sit and eat, how

pass an evening in that house, in the society of that man? her tuneful

chorus cry, “how indeed.” besides, it would have offend Mr. Romfrey

to hear that she have do so. still she could not refuse to remember

Miss Denham’s mark intimation of there be a reason for Nevil’s

friend to seize the chance of an immediate interview with he; and in

her distress at the thought, Rosamund reluctantly, but as if compel

by necessity, ascribe the young lady’s conduct to a strong sense of

personal interest.



“evidently _she_ have no desire he should run the risk of anger a

rich uncle.”



this shameful suspicion be unavoidable: there be no other opiate for

Rosamund’s blame of herself after let her instinct gain the

ascendancy.



it will be find a common case, that when we have yield to our

instinct, and then have to soothe conscience, we must slaughter

somebody, for a sacrificial offering to our sense of comfort.









CHAPTER XIII.

a superfine CONSCIENCE





however much Mr. Everard Romfrey may have laugh at Nevil Beauchamp

with his “banana-wreath,” he like the fellow for having volunteer

for that african coast-service, and the news of his promotion by his

admiral to the post of commander through a death vacancy, have give he

an exalt satisfaction, for as he could always point to the cause of

failure, he strongly appreciate success. the circumstance have offer

an occasion for the new commander to hit he hard upon a matter of

fact. Beauchamp have send word of his advance in rank, but request his

uncle not to imagine he wear an _additional epaulette;_ and he

correct the infallible gentleman’s error (which have of course be

report to he when he be dream of Renée, by Mrs. Culling)

concern a lieutenant’s shoulder decoration, most gravely; inform

he of the anchor on the lieutenant’s _pair_ of epaulette, and the

anchor and star on a commander’s, and the crown on a captain’s, with a

well-feign solicitousness to save his uncle from blunder far.

this be do in the dry neat manner which Mr. Romfrey could feel to be

his own turn on he.



he begin to conceive a vague respect for the fellow who have prove he

wrong upon a matter of fact. beauchamp come from Africa rather wear by

the climate, and immediately obtain the command of the _Ariadne_

corvette, which have be some time in commission in the Mediterranean,

whither he depart, without visit Steynham; allow Rosamund to

think he tenacious of his wrath as well as of love. Mr. Romfrey

consider he to be insatiable for service. Beauchamp, during his

absence, have show himself awake to the affair of his country once

only, in an urgent supplication he have forward for all his uncle’s

influence to be use to get he appoint to the first vacancy in

Robert Hall’s naval brigade, then form a part of our handful in

insurgent India. the fate of that chivalrous Englishman, that bear

sailor-warrior, that truest of hero, imperishable in the memory of

those who know he, and in our annal, young though he be when death

take he, have wring from Nevil Beauchamp such a letter of tear as to

make Mr. Romfrey believe the naval crown of glory his high ambition.

who on earth could have guess he to be bother his head about

politic all the while! or be the whole stupid business a freak of the

moment?



it become necessary for Mr. Romfrey to contemplate his eccentric nephew

in the light of a mannikin once more. consequently he call to mind,

and bade Rosamund Culling remember, that he have foresee and have

predict the mounting of Nevil Beauchamp on his political horse one

day or another; and perhaps the early the well. and a donkey could

have swear that when he do mount he would come gallop in among the

Radical rough-rider. letter be pour upon Steynham from man and

woman of Romfrey blood and relationship concern the positive tone of

Radicalism in the commander’s address. Everard laugh at they. as a

practical man, his objection lie against the poor fool’s choice of the

peccant borough of Bevisham. still, in view of the needfulness of his

learning wisdom, and rapidly, the disbursement of a lot of his money,

certain to be require by Bevisham’s elector, seem to be the sure

method for quicken his wit. thus would he be act as his own

chirurgeon, gaily practise phlebotomy on his person to cure he of

his fever. too much money be not the origin of the fever in Nevil’s

case, but he have too small a sense of the value of what he possess,

and the diminish stock would be likely to cry out shrilly.



to this effect, never complain that Nevil Beauchamp have not come to

he to take counsel with he, the high-minded old gentleman talk. at

the same time, while indulge in so philosophical a picture of himself

as be present by a Romfrey mildly accounting for event and

smooth they under the infliction of an offence, he could not but

feel that Nevil have challenge he: such be the reading of it; and he

wait for some justifiable excitement to fetch he out of the

magnanimous mood, rather in the image of an angler, it must be own.



“nevil understand that I be not go to pay a farthing of his

expense in Bevisham?” he say to Mrs. Culling.



she reply blandly and with innocence, “I have not see he, sir.”



he nod. at the next mention of Nevil between they, he ask, “where

be it he’s lie perdu, ma’am?”



“I fancy in that town, in Bevisham.”



“at the Liberal, radical, hotel?”



“I dare say; some place; I be not certain....”



“the rascal doctor’s house there? shrapnel’s?”



“really... I have not see he.”



“have you hear from he?”



“I have have a letter; a short one.”



“where do he date his letter from?”



“from Bevisham.”



“from what house?”



Rosamund glance about for a way of escape the question. there be

none but the door. she reply, “from Dr. Shrapnel’s.”



“that’s the Anti-Game-Law agitator.”



“you do not imagine, sir, that nevil subscribe to every thing the

horrid man agitate for?”



“you don’t like the man, ma’am?”



“I detest he.”



“ha! so you have see shrapnel?”



“only for a moment; a moment or two. I cannot endure he. I be sure I

have reason.”



Rosamund flush exceedingly red. the visit to Dr. Shrapnel’s house be

her secret, and the worming of it out make she feel guilty, and that

feel revive and heat she antipathy to the Radical doctor.



“what reason?” say Mr. Romfrey, freshen at her display of colour.



she would not expose Nevil to the accusation of childishness by

confess her positive reason, so she answer, “the man be a kind of

man... I be not there long; I be glad to escape. he...” she

hesitate: for in truth it be difficult to shape the charge against

he, and the effort to be reticent concern Nevil, and communicative,

now that he have be speak of, as to the detest doctor, reduce she

to some confusion. she be also fatally anxious to be in the extreme

degree conscientious, and correct and modify her remark most

suspiciously.



“do he insult you, ma’am?” Mr. Romfrey inquire.



she reply hastily, “oh no. he may be a good man in his way. he be one

of those man who do not seem to think a woman may have opinion. he

do not scruple to outrage those we hold. I be afraid he be an

infidel. his idea of family duty and tie, and his manner of

express himself, shock I, that be all. he be absurd. I dare say

there be no harm in he, except for those who be so unfortunate as to

fall under his influence—and that, I feel sure, cannot be permanent. he

could not injure I personally. he could not offend I, I mean. indeed,

I have nothing whatever to say against he, as far as I...”



“do he fail to treat you as a lady, ma’am?”



Rosamund be get frighten by the significant pertinacity of her

lord.



“I be sure, sir, he mean no harm.”



“be the man uncivil to you, ma’am?” come the emphatic interrogation.



she ask herself, have Dr. Shrapnel be uncivil toward she? and so

conscientious be she, that she allow the question to be debate in

her mind for half a minute, answer then, “no, not uncivil. I cannot

exactly explain.... he certainly do not intend to be uncivil. he be

only an unpolished, vexatious man; enormously tall.”



Mr. Romfrey ejaculate, “ha! humph!”



his view of Dr. Shrapnel be take from that instant. it be, that this

enormously big blustering agitator against the preservation of bird,

have behave rudely toward the lady officially the chief of his

household, and might be consider in the light of an adversary one

would like to meet. the size of the man increase his aspect of

villany, which in return add largely to his giant size. Everard

Romfrey’s mental eye could perceive an attractiveness about the man

little short of magnetic; for he think of he so much that he have to

think of what be due to his pacifical disposition (deeply believe in

by he) to spare himself the trouble of a visit to Bevisham.



the young gentleman whom he regard as the Radical doctor’s dupe, fall

in for a share of his view of the doctor, and Mr. Romfrey become less

fit to observe Nevil Beauchamp’s doing with the olympian gravity he

have originally assume.



the extreme delicacy of Rosamund’s conscience be fret by a

remorseful doubt of she having convey a just impression of Dr.

Shrapnel, somewhat as though the fine sleek coat of it be brush the

wrong way. reflection warn she that her deliberative intensely

sincere pause before she respond to Mr. Romfrey’s last demand, might

have imply more than her word. she console herself with the thought

that it be the dainty susceptibility of her conscientiousness which

cause these noble qualm, and so deeply do a refined nature esteem

the gift, that her pride in it help she to overlook her moral

perturbation. she be console, moreover, up to the verge of triumph in

her realization of the image of a rivalling and excelling power

present by Mr. Romfrey, though it have frighten she at the time. let

not Dr. Shrapnel come across he! she hope he would not. ultimately

she could say to herself, “perhaps I need not have be so annoyed with

the horrid man.” it be on Nevil’s account. shrapnel’s contempt of the

claim of Nevil’s family upon he be actually a piece of impudence,

impudently express, if she remember correctly. and Shrapnel be a

black malignant, the foe of the nation’s Constitution, deserve of

punishment if ever man be; with his ridiculous metaphor, and talk of

organ and piano, orchestra and despotism, and fly to the sun!

how could Nevil listen to the creature! shrapnel must be a shameless,

hypocrite to mask his wickedness from one so clear-sighted as Nevil,

and no doubt he indulge in his impudence out of wanton pleasure in it.

his business be to catch young gentleman of family, and to turn they

against their family, plainly. that be think the good of he. no

doubt he have his object to gain. “he might have be as impudent as he

like to _I;_ I would have pardon he!” Rosamund exclaim.

personally, you see, she be generous. on the whole, know Everard

Romfrey as she do, she wish that she have behave, albeit perfectly

discreet in her behaviour, and conscientiously just, a shade or two

differently. but the evil be do.









CHAPTER XIV.

the leading ARTICLE and MR. TIMOTHY TURBOT





Nevil decline to come to Steynham, clearly owe to a dread of hear

Dr. Shrapnel abuse, as Rosamund judge by the warmth of his write

eulogy of the man, and an ensue allusion to Game. he say that he

have not make up his mind as to the Game Laws. Rosamund mention the

fact to Mr. Romfrey. “so we may stick by our licence to shoot

to-morrow,” he rejoin. of a letter that he also have receive from

Nevil, he do not speak. she hint at it, and he stare. he would have

deem it as vain a subject to discourse of India, or Continental

affair, at a period when his house be full for the opening day of

sport, and the expectation of keep up his renown for great bag on

that day so entirely occupy his mind. good shot be present who have

contribute to the fame of Steynham on other opening day. bird be

plentiful and promise not to be too wild. he have the range of the

Steynham estate in his eye, dot with cover; and after Steynham,

Holdesbury, which have never yield he the same high celebrity, but

both lie map out for action under the profound calculation of the

strategist, ready to show the skill of the field tactician. he could

not attend to Nevil. even the talk of the forthcoming election, hardly

to be avoid at his table, seem a puerile distraction. ware the foe

of his partridge and pheasant, be it man or vermin! the name of

Shrapnel be frequently on the tongue of Captain Baskelett. Rosamund

hear he, in her room, and his derisive shout of laughter over it.

Cecil be a fine shot, quite as fond of the pastime as his uncle, and

always in favour with he while sport stalk the land. he be in

gallant spirit, and Rosamund, brood over Nevil’s fortune, and

sit much alone, as she do when there be guest in the house,

give way to her previous apprehension. she touch on they to Mr.

Stukely Culbrett, her husband’s old friend, one of those happy man who

enjoy perception without opinion, and be not bear to administer

comfort to other than themselves. as far as she could gather, he

fancy Nevil Beauchamp be in danger of something, but he deliver

his mind only upon circumstance and character: Nevil risk his luck,

Cecil know his game, Everard Romfrey be the staunch of mankind:

stukely have nothing furth to say regard the situation. she ask

he what he think, and he smile. could a reasonable head venture to

think anything in particular? he repeat the amazed, “you don’t say

so” of Colonel Halkett, on hear the name of the new liberal

candidate for Bevisham at the dinner-table, together with some of

Cecil’s waggish embroidery upon the theme.



Rosamund exclaim angrily, “oh! if I have be there he would not have

dare.”



“why not be there?” say stukely. “you have have your choice for a

number of year.”



she shake her head, redden.



but suppose that she have great privilege than be hers now? the

idea flash. a taint of personal pique, awaken by the fancied

necessity for put her devotedness to Nevil to proof, ask she if

she would then be the official housekeeper to whom Captain Baskelett

bow low with affected respect and impertinent affability, ironically

praise she abroad as a wonder among woman, that could at one time

have play the deuce in the family, have she choose to do so.



“just as you like,” Mr. Culbrett remark. it be his ironical habit of

mind to believe that the wish of man and woman—woman as well as

man—be express by their utterance.



“but speak of Nevil to Colonel Halkett,” say Rosamund, earnestly

carry on what be in her heart. “persuade the colonel you do not

think nevil foolish—not more than just a little impetuous. I want that

marriage to come off! not on account of her wealth. she be to inherit a

Welsh mine from her uncle, you know, besides be an only child.

recall what Nevil be during the war. Miss Halkett have not forget

it, I be sure, and a good word for he from a man of the world would, I

be certain, counteract Captain Baskelett’s—be they design? at any

rate, you can if you like help Nevil with the colonel. I be convince

they be do he a mischief. Colonel Halkett have buy an estate—and

what a misfortune that is!—close to Bevisham. I fancy he be toryish.

will you not speak to he? at my request? I be so helpless I could cry.



“Fancy you have no handkerchief,” say Mr. Culbrett, “and give up

scheming, pray. one have only to begin to scheme, to shorten life to

half-a-dozen hop and jump. I could say to the colonel, ‘Young

Beauchamp’s a political cub: he ought to have a motherly wife.’”



“yes, yes, you be right; don’t speak to he at all,” say Rosamund,

feel that there must be a conspiracy to rob she of her proud

independence, since not a soul could be win to spare she from take

some energetic step, if she would be useful to he she love.



Colonel Halkett be one of the guest at Steynham who know and

respect she, and he pay she a visit and allude to Nevil’s

candidature, apparently not think much the bad of he. “we cann’t

allow he to succeed,” he say, and look for a smile approval of

such natural opposition, which Rosamund give he readily after he have

express the hope that Nevil Beauchamp would take advantage of his

proximity to Mount Laurels during the contest to try the hospitality of

the house. “he willn’t mind meet his uncle?” the colonel’s eye

twinkle. “my daughter have engage Mr. Romfrey and Captain Baskelett to

come to we when they have shoot Holdesbury.”



and Captain Baskelett! think Rosamund; her jealousy whisper that

the mention of his name close upon Cecilia Halkett’s might have a

nuptial signification.



she be a witness from her window—a prisoner’s window, her eager heart

could have term it—of a remarkable ostentation of cordiality between

the colonel and Cecil, in the presence of Mr. Romfrey. be it his

humour to conspire to hand Miss Halkett to Cecil, and then to show

Nevil the prize he have forfeit by his folly? the three be on the

lawn a little before Colonel Halkett’s departure. the colonel’s arm be

link with Cecil’s while they converse. presently the latter receive

his afternoon’s letter, and a newspaper. he soon have the paper out at

a square stretch, and sprightly information for the other two be

visible in his crowing throat. Mr. Romfrey raise the gun from his

shoulder-pad, and ground it. Colonel Halkett wish to peruse the

matter with his own eye, but Cecil could not permit it; he must read

it aloud for they, and he suit his action to his sentence. have

Rosamund be accustom to lead article which be the composition

of man of an impose vocabulary, she would have recognize and as good

as read one in Cecil’s gesture as he tilt his lofty stature forward

and back, mark his comma and semicolon with flapping of his

elbow, and all but double his body at his period. Mr. Romfrey have

enough of it half-way down the column; his head go sharply to leave

and right. cecil’s peculiar foppish slice down of his hand picture

he protest that there be more and fine of the inimitable stuff to

follow. the end of the scene exhibit the paper on the turf, and

Colonel Halkett’s hand on Cecil’s shoulder, Mr. Romfrey nod some

sort of acquiescence over the muzzle of his gun, whether reflective or

positive Rosamund could not decide. she send out a footman for the

paper, and be presently commune with its eloquent large type, quite

unable to perceive where the comicality or the impropriety of it lay,

for it would have strike she that never be truer thing of Nevil

Beauchamp well say in the tone befit they. this perhaps be

because she never hear fervid praise of he, or of anybody, deliver

from the mouth, and it be not common to hear englishman phrase great

eulogy of one another. still, as a rule, they do not object to have

it perform in that region of our national eloquence, the Press, by an

Irishman or a Scotchman. and what could there be to warrant Captain

Baskelett’s malicious derision, and Mr. Romfrey’s nodding assent to it,

in an article where all be truth?



the truth be mount on an unusually high wind. it be indeed a

lead article of a banner-like bravery, and the unrolling of it be

design to stir emotion. Beauchamp be the theme. Nevil have it under

his eye early than Cecil. the paper be bring into his room with

the beam of day, damp from the press of the _Bevisham Gazette_,

exactly opposite to he in the White Hart Hotel, and a glance at the

paragraph give he a lively ardour to spring to his foot. what

writing! he be uplifted as “the heroical Commander Beauchamp, of the

Royal Navy,” and “Commander Beauchamp, R.N., a gentleman of the high

connection”: he be “that illustrious Commander Beauchamp, of our

matchless, navy, who prove on every field of the last glorious war of

this country that the traditional valour of the noble and indomitable

blood transmit to his vein have lose none of its edge and weight

since the battle-axis of the Lords de Romfrey, ever to the fore, clove

the skull of our national enemy on the wide and fertile campaign of

France.” this be pageantry.



there be more of it. then the serious afflatus of the article

condescend, as it be, to blow a shrill and well-know whistle:—the

study of the science of navigation make by Commander Beauchamp, R.N.,

be cite for a jocose warranty of a seaman’s aptness to assist in

steer the Vessel of the State. after thus heel over, to tip a

familiar wink to the multitude, the leader tone resume its fit

deportment. Commander Beauchamp, in respond to the invitation of the

great and united Liberal party of the borough of Bevisham, obey the

inspiration of genius, the dictate of humanity, and what he rightly

consider the paramount duty, as it be the proud ambition, of the

citizen of a free country.



but for an occasional drop and bump of the sailing gasbag upon

catch-word of enthusiasm, which be the rhetoric of the merely windy,

and a collapse on a poetic line, which too often signalize the

rhetorician’s emptiness of his wind, the article be eminent for

flight, sweep, and dash, and sail along far more grandly than

ordinary provincial organ for the promoting or seconding of public

opinion, that be as little to be compare with the mighty metropolitan

as be the fife and bugle boy practise on their instrument round

melancholy outskirt of garrison town with the regimental marching

full band under the presidency of its drum-major. no signature to the

article be need for Bevisham to know who have return to the town to

pen it. those long-stretch sentence, comparable to the very ship

_Leviathan_, span two atlantic billow, appertain to none but the

renowned Mr. Timothy Turbot, of the Corn Law campaign, reform

agitation, and all manifestly popular movement require the

heaven-endow man of speech, an interpreter of multitude, and a

prompter. like most man who have little to say, he be an orator in

print, but that be a poor medium for he—his body without his fire.

Mr. Timothy’s place be the platform. a wise discernment, or else a

lucky accident (for he come hurriedly from the soil of his native isle,

need occupation), set he on that side in politic which happen to

be make an establish current and strong headway. Oratory will not

work against the stream, or on languid tide. driblet of movement

that allow the world to doubt whether they be so much movement as

illusion of the optic, do not suit his genius. thus he be a

Liberal, no Radical, fountain. Liberalism have the attraction for the

orator of be the active force in politic, between two passive

oppose body, the aspect of either of which it can assume for a

menace to the other, toryish as against Radicals; a trifle red in the

eye of the Tory. it can seem to lean back on the past; it can seem to

be amorous of the Future. it be actually the thing of the Present and

its urgency, therefore popular, pour forth the pure water of

moderation, strong in their copiousness. delicious and rapturous

effect be to be produce in the flood of a liberal oration by a

chance infusion of the fieri spirit, a flavour of Radicalism. that be

the thing to set an audience bounding and quirk. whereas if you

commence by till a Triton pitcher full of the neat liquor upon they,

you have to resort to the natural element for the orator’s art of

variation, you be dilute—and that’s bathos, to quote Mr. Timothy. it

be a fine piece of discernment in he. let liberalism be your feast,

radicalism your spice. and now and then, off and on, for a change, for

diversion, for a new emotion, just for half an hour or so—now and then

the Sunday coat of Toryism will give you an air. you have only to

complain of the fit, to release your shoulder in a trice. Mr. Timothy

feel for his art as poet do for theirs, and consider what be well

adapt to speak, purely to speak. upon no creature do he look

with such contempt as upon Dr. Shrapnel, whose loose disjunct audience

he be conscious he could, give the doctor any start he like, whirl

away from he and have compact, enchain, at his first flourish; yea,

though they be compose of “the poor man,” with a stomach for the

political distillery fit to drain relishingly every private bogside or

mountain-side tap in old Ireland in its good day—the illicit, you

understand.



far, to quote Mr. Timothy’s point of view, the radical orator have

but two note, and one be the drawling pathetic, and the other be the

ultra-furious; and the effect of the former we liken to the English

work man’s wife’s hob-set queasy brew of well-mean villany, that

she call by the innocent name of tea; and the latter be to be blow,

ask to be blow, and never should be blow without at least seem to

be blow, with an accompaniment of a house on fire. Sir, we must adapt

ourselves to our time. perhaps a spark or two do lurk about our

house, but we have vigilant watchman in plenty, and the house have be

pretty fairly insure. shriek in it be an annoyance to the inmate,

nonsensical; weeping be a sickly business. the time be against

Radicalism to the full as much as great oratory be oppose to extreme.

these drag the orator too near to the matter. so it be that one Radical

speech be amazingly like another—they all have the earth-spot. they

smell, too; they smell of brimstone. Soaring be impossible among that

faction; but this they can do, they can furnish the Tory his

opportunity to soar. when hear you a thrilling Tory speech that carry

the country with it, save when the incendiary Radical have shriek? if

there be envy in the soul of Timothy, it be address to the fine

occasion offer to the Tory speaker for vindicate our ancient

principle and our sacred home. he admire the tone to be assume for

that purpose: it be a good note. then could the Tory, deliver at

the right season the shakesperian “_this England_...” and Byronic—“_The

inviolate Island_...” shake the frame, as though smite it with the

tail of the gymnotus electricus. ah, and then could he thump out his

Horace, the Tory’s mentor and his cordial, with other great ancient

comic and satiric poet, his old Port of the classical cellarage,

reflect veneration upon he who do but name they to an audience of

good disposition. the Tory possess also an innate inimitably easy

style of humour, that have the long reach, the jolly lordly

indifference, the comfortable masterfulness, of the whip of a

four-in-hand driver, capable of flick and stinging, and of be

ironically caress. Timothy appreciate it, for he have wince under

it. no professor of Liberalism could venture on it, unless it be in

the remote district of a back parlour, in the society of a cherishing

friend or two, and with a slice of lemon require to be refloat in

the glass.



but gift of this description be of a minor order. Liberalism give

the heading cry, devoid of which party be dog without a scent,

orator mere pump-handle. the Tory’s cry be but a whistle to his

pack, the Radical howl to the moon like any chain hound. and no

wonder, for these party have no establish current, they be as

hard-bind water; the Radical be dyke and dam most soundly, the

Tory resemble a placid lake of the plain, feed by spring and no

confluent. for such good reason, Mr. Timothy rejoice in the happy

circumstance which have expel he from the shore of his native isle

to find a refuge and a vocation in Manchester at a period when an

orator happen to be in request because dozen be want. that

centre of convulsion and source of stream possess the statistical

orator, the reasoning orator, and the inspire; with other of quality;

and yet it have need of an ever-ready spontaneous imperturbable speaker,

whose bubble generalization and ability to beat the drum humorous

could swing hall of meeting from the grasp of an enemy, and then

ascend on incalescent adjective to the popular idea of the sublime. he

be the artistic orator of Corn Law Repeal—the Manchester flood, before

which time whig be, since which they have walk like spectral

antediluvian, or float as dead canine body that be suck away on

the ebb of tide and fling back on the flow, ignorant whether they be

progressive or retrograde. Timothy Turbot assist in that vast effort.

it should have elevate he beyond the editorship of a country

newspaper. why it do not do so his antagonist pretend to know, and

his friend would smile to hear. the report be that he worship the

nymph Whisky.



Timothy’s article have pluck Beauchamp out of bed; Beauchamp’s card in

return do the same for he.



“Commander Beauchamp? I be heartily glad to make your acquaintance,

sir; I’ve be absent, at work, on the big business we have in common,

I rejoice to say, and be behind my fellow townsman in this pleasure and

lucky I sleep here in my room above, where I don’t often sleep, for the

row of the machinery—it’s like a steamer that willn’t go, though it’s

always start ye,” Mr. Timothy say in a single breath, upon enter

the back office of the _Gazette_, like unto those accomplish

violinist who can hold on the bow to finger an incredible number of

note, and may be image as represent slow paternal Time, that roll

his caper dot-head generation of mortal over the wheel, hundred

to the minute. “you’ll excuse my not shaving, sir, to come down to your

summon without an extra touch to the neck-band.”



Beauchamp behold a middle-sized round man, with loose lip and pendant

indigo jowl, whose eye twinkle watery, like pebble under the

shore-wash, and whose neck-band need an extra touch from finger

other than his own.



“I be sorry to have disturb you so early,” he reply.



“not a bit, Commander Beauchamp, not a bit, sir. early or late, and ay

ready—with the Napiers; I’ll wash, I’ll wash.”



“I come to speak to you of this article of yours on I. they tell I in

the office that you be the writer. pray don’t ‘commander’ I so

much.—It’s not customary, and I object to it.”



“certainly, certainly,” Timothy acquiesce.



“and for the future, Mr. Turbot, please to be good enough not to allude

in print to any of my performance here and there. your intention be

complimentary, but it happen that I don’t like a public patting on the

back.”



“no, and that’s true,” say Timothy.



his appreciative and sympathetic agreement with these sharp stricture

on the article bring Beauchamp to a stop.



Timothy wait for he; then, smooth his prickly cheek, remark:

“if I’d guess your errand, Commander Beauchamp, I’d have call in

the barber before I come down, just to make myself decent for a “first

introduction.”



Beauchamp be not insensible to the slyness of the poke at he. “you

see, I come to the borough unknown to it, and as quietly as possible,

and I want to be take as a politician,” he continue, for the sake of

show that he have sufficient to say to account for his hasty and

peremptory summon of the writer of that article to his presence. “it’s

excessively disagreeable to have one’s family lug into notice in a

newspaper—especially if they be of different politic. _I_ feel it.”



“all would, sir,” say Timothy.



“then why the deuce do you do it?”



Timothy draw a lading of air into his lung. “Politics, Commander

Beauchamp, involve the doing of lot of disagreeable thing to

ourselves and our relation; it’s positive. I’m a soldier of the Great

campaign: and who know it well than I, sir? it’s climb the greasy

pole for the leg o’ mutton, that make the mother’s heart ache for the

jacket and the nether garment she mend neatly, if she don’t make

they. Mutton or no mutton, there’s grease for certain! since it’s sure

we cann’t be disconnect from the family, the trick be to turn the

misfortune to a profit; and allow I the observation, that an old

family, sir, and a high and title family, be not to be despise for a

background of a portrait in naval uniform, with medal and clasp, and

some small smoke of powder clear off over there:—that’s if we’re to

act sagaciously in introduce an unknown candidate to a borough that

have a sneaking liking for the kind of person, more honour to it. I’m a

political veteran, sir; I speak from experience. we must employ our

weapon, every one of they, and all off the grindstone.”



“very well,” say Beauchamp. “now understand; you be not in future to

employ the weapon, as you call they, that I have object to.”



Timothy gape slightly.



“whatever you will, but no puffery,” Beauchamp add. “can I by any

mean arrest—purchase—be it possible, tell I, to lay an embargo—stop

to-day’s issue of the _Gazette?_”



“no more—than the bite of a mad dog,” Timothy reply, before he have

consider upon the monstrous nature of the proposal.



Beauchamp humphe, and toss his head. the simile of the dog strike

he with intense effect.



“there’d be a second edition,” say Timothy, “and you might buy up

that. but there’ll be a third, and you may buy up that; but there’ll be

a fourth and a fifth, and so on ad infinitum, with the advertisement of

the sale of the foregoing create a demand like a rage thirst in a

shipwreck, in Bligh’s boat, in the tropic. I’m afraid, Com—Captain

Beauchamp, sir, there’s no stop the Press while the people have an

appetite for it—and a Company’s at the back of it.”



“Pooh, don’t talk to I in that way; all I complain of be the figure

you have make of I,” say Beauchamp, fetch he smartly out of his

nonsense; “and all I ask of you be not to be at it again. who would

suppose from read an article like that, that I be a candidate with a

single political idea!”



“an article like that,” say Timothy, winking, and a little surer of

his man now that he suggest his possession of idea, “an article like

that be the good cloak you can put on a candidate with too many of “em,

Captain Beauchamp. I’ll tell you, sir; I come, I hear of your

candidature, I have your sketch, the pattern of ye, before I, and I be

tell that Dr. Shrapnel father you politically. there be my brief! I

have to persuade our constituent that you, Commander Beauchamp of the

Royal Navy, and the great family of the Earls of Romfrey, one of the

hero of the war, and the recipient of a Royal Humane Society’s medal

for save life in Bevisham water, be something more than the

Radical doctor’s political son; and, sir, it be to this end, aim, and

object, that I write the article I be not ashamed to avow as mine, and

I do so, sir, because of the solitary merit it have of serve your

political interest as the liberal candidate for Bevisham by

counteract the unpopularity of Dr. Shrapnel’s name, on the one part,

and of revive the credit due to your valour and high bearing on the

field of battle in defence of your country, on the other, so that

Bevisham may apprehend, in spite of party distinction, that it have the

option, and have well seize upon the honour, of make a M.P. of a

hero.”



Beauchamp interpose hastily: “thank you, thank you for the good of

intention. but let I tell you I be prepared to stand or fall with Dr.

Shrapnel, and be hang to all that humbug.”



Timothy rub his hand with an abstract air of washing. “well,

commander, well, sir, they say a candidate’s to be humour in his

infancy, for _he_ have to do all the humouring before he’s many week

old at it; only there’s the fact!—he soon find out he have to pay for

his first fling, like the son of a family sow his oats to reap his

Jews. credit I, sir, I think it prudent to counteract a bit of an

apothecary’s shop odour in the junior liberal candidate’s address. I

find the town sniff, they scent shrapnel in the composition.”



“every line of it be mine,” say Beauchamp.



“of course it be, and the address be admirably word, sir, I make

bold to say it to your face; but most indubitably it threaten

powerful drug for weak stomach, and it blow cold on vote, which be

sensitive plant like nothing else in botany.”



“if they be only to be get by abandon principle, and by anything

but honesty in state they, they may go,” say Beauchamp.



“I repeat, my dear sir, I repeat, the infant candidate delight in his

honesty, like the babe in its nakedness, the beautiful virgin in her

innocence. so he do; but he discover it’s time for he to wear

clothe in a contested election. and what’s that but to preserve the

outline pretty correctly, whilst he don’t shock and horrify the

optic? a dash of conventionalism make the whole civilized world kin,

ye know. that’s the truth. you must appear to be one of they, for they

to choose you. after all, there’s no harm in a dyer’s hand; and, sir, a

candidate look at his own, when he have win the Election...”



“ah, well,” say Beauchamp, swinge on his heel, “and now I’ll take my

leave of you, and I apologize for bring you down here so early.

please attend to what I have say; it’s peremptory. you will give I

great pleasure by dine with I to-night, at the hotel opposite. will

you? I don’t know what kind of wine I shall be able to offer you.

perhaps you know the cellar, and may help I in that.”



Timothy grasp his hand, “with pleasure, Commander Beauchamp. they

have a bucella over there that’s old, and a tolerable claret, and a

Port to be inquire for under the breath, in a mysteriously intimate

tone of voice, as one say, ‘I know of your treasure, and the corner

under ground where it lie.’ avoid the champagne: ’tis the banquet

wine. ditto the sherry. one can drink they, one can drink they.”



“at a quarter to eight this evening, then,” say Nevil.



“I’ll be there at the stroke of the clock, sure as the date of a bill,”

say Timothy.



and it’s early to guess whether you’ll catch Bevisham or you willn’t, he

reflect, as he gaze at the young gentleman cross the road; but

female Bevisham’s with you, if that count for much. Timothy confess,

that without the employment of any weapon save arrogance and a look of

candour, the commander have go some way toward catch the feminine

side of himself.









CHAPTER XV.

CECILIA HALKETT





Beauchamp walk down to the pier, where he take a boat for H.M.S.

_isis_, to see Jack Wilmore, whom he have not meet since his return from

his last cruise, and first he try the efficacy of a dive in salt

water, as a specific for irritation. it give the edge to a fine

appetite that he continue to satisfy while Wilmore talk of those

famous dog to which the navy have ever be go.



“we want another panic, Beauchamp,” say Lieutenant Wilmore. “no one

know well than you what a naval man have to complain of, so I hope

you’ll get your Election, if only that we may reckon on a good look-out

for the interest of the service. a regular Board with a permanent Lord

High Admiral, and a regular vote of money to keep it up to the mark.

Stick to that. hardist have a vote in Bevisham. I think I can get one or

two more. why ben’t you a tory? no Whigs nor Liberals look after we

half so well as the Tories. it’s enough to break a man’s heart to see

the troop of dockyard workman march out as soon as ever a Liberal

Government march in. then it’s one of our infernal panic again, and

patch here, patch there; every inch of it make-believe! I’ll prove to

you from example that the humbug of Government cause exactly the same

humbug workmanship. it seem as if it be a game of ‘rascal all.’

let they sink we! but, by heaven! one cann’t help feel for the

country. and I do say it’s the doing of those Liberals. skilled

workman, mind you, not to be net again so easily. America reap the

benefit of our folly .... that be a lucky run of yours up the Niger;

the admiral be friendly, but you deserve your luck. for God’s sake,

don’t forget the state of our service when you’re one of our cherub up

aloft, Beauchamp. this I’ll say, I’ve never hear a man talk about it

as you use to in old midshipmite day, whole watch through—don’t you

remember? on the north american station, and in the Black Sea, and the

Mediterranean. and that girl at Malta! I wonder what have become of she?

what a beauty she be! I dare say she ben’t so fine a girl as the

Armenian you unearth on the Bosphorus, but she have something about

she a fellow cann’t forget. that be a lovely creature come down the

hill over Granada on her mule. ay, we’ve see handsome woman, Nevil

Beauchamp. but you always be lucky, invariably, and I should bet on

you for the Election.”



“canvass for I, Jack,” say Beauchamp, smile at his friend’s

unconscious double-skeining of subject. “if I turn out as good a

politician as you be a seaman, I shall do. pounce on Hardist’s vote

without lose a day. I would go to he, but I’ve miss the Halketts

twice. they’re on the Otley river, at a place call Mount Laurels, and

I particularly want to see the colonel. can you give I a boat there,

and come?”



“certainly,” say Wilmore. “I’ve dance there with the lady, the

handsome girl, english style, of her time. and come, come, our

english style’s the good. it wear well, it look well. foreign

woman... they’re capital to flirt with. but a girl like Cecilia

Halkett—one cann’t call she a girl, and it willn’t do to say Goddess, and

queen and charmer be out of the question, though she’s both, and angel

into the bargain; but, by George! what a woman to call wife, you say;

and a man attach to a woman like that never can let himself look

small. no such luck for I; only I swear if I stand between a good and

a bad action, the thought of that girl would keep I straight, and I’ve

only dance with she once!”



not long after sketch this rough presentation of the lady, with a

masculine hand, Wilmore be able to point to she in person on the deck

of her father’s yacht, the _Esperanza_, stand out of Otley river.

there be a gallant splendour in the vessel that throw a touch of glory

on its mistress in the mind of the two young naval officer, as they

pull for she in the ship’s gig.



Wilmore sing out, “give way, man!”



the sailor bend to their oar, and presently the schooner’s head be

put to the wind.



“she see we’re give chase,” Wilmore say. “she cann’t be expect

_I_, so it must be you. no, the colonel don’t race she. they’ve only

be back from Italy six month: I mean the schooner. I remember she

talk of you when I have she for a partner. yes, now I mean Miss

Halkett. Blest if I think she talk of anything else. she see we.

I’ll tell you what she like: she like yacht, she like Italy, she

like painting, like thing old English, awfully fond of hero. I

tell she a tale of one of our man save life. ‘oh!’ say she, ‘don’t

your friend Nevil Beauchamp save a man from drown, off the

guardship, in exactly the same place?’ and next day she send I a

cheque for three pound for the fellow. steady, man! I keep she

letter.”



the boat go smoothly alongside the schooner. Miss Halkett have come to

the side. the oar swing fore and aft, and Beauchamp spring on deck.



Wilmore have to decline Miss Halkett’s invitation to he as well as his

friend, and return in his boat. he leave the pair with a ruffle

breeze, and a sky all sail, prepare, it seem to he, to enjoy the

most delicious you-and-I on salt water that a sailor could dream of;

and placidly envying, devoid of jealousy, there be just enough of

fancy quicken in Lieutenant Wilmore to give he picture of they

without disturbance of his feeling—one of the condition of the

singular visitation we call happiness, if he could have know it.



for a time his visionary eye follow they pretty correctly. so long

since they have part last! such change in the interval! and great

animation in Beauchamp’s gaze, and a blush on Miss Halkett’s cheek.



she say once, “Captain Beauchamp.” he retort with a solemn

formality. they smile, and immediately take footing on their previous

intimacy.



“how good it be of you to come twice to Mount Laurels,” say she. “I

have not miss you to-day. no address be on your card. where be you

stay in the neighbourhood? at Mr. Lespel’s?”



“I’m stay at a Bevisham hotel,” say Beauchamp.



“you have not be to Steynham yet? papa come home from Steynham

to-night.”



“do he? well, the _Ariadne_ be only just pay off, and I cann’t well

go to Steynham yet. I—” Beauchamp be astonish at the hesitation he

find in himself to name it: “I have business in Bevisham.”



“naval business?” she remark.



“no,” say he.



the sensitive prescience we have of a critical distaste of our

proceeding be, the world be aware, keener than our intuition of

contrary opinion; and for the sake of preserve the sweet outward

form of friendliness, Beauchamp be anxious not to speak of the

business in Bevisham just then, but she look and he have hesitate, so

he say flatly, “I be one of the candidate for the borough.”



“indeed!”



“and I want the colonel to give I his vote.”



the young lady breathe a melodious “oh!” not condemnatory or

reproachful—a sound to fill a pause. but she be begin to reflect.



“Italy and our English Channel be my two Poles,” she say. “I be

constantly sway between they. I have tell papa we will not lay up

the yacht while the weather hold fair. except for the absence of deep

colour and bright colour, what can be more beautiful than these green

wave and that dark forest’s edge, and the garden of an island! the

yachting-water here be an unrivalled lake; and if I miss colour, which

I love, I remind myself that we have temperate air here, not a sun that

send you under cover. we can have our fruit too, you see.” one of the

yachtsman be hand she a basket of hot-house grape, recline

beside crisp home-make loaflet. “this be my luncheon. will you share

it, Nevil?”



his christian name be pleasant to hear from her lip. she hold out a

bunch to he.



“grape take one back to the South,” say he. “how do you bear

compliment? you have be in Italy some year, and it must be the

South that have work the miracle.”



“in my growth?” say Cecilia, smile. “I have grow out of my

circassian dress, Nevil.”



“you receive it, then?”



“I write you a letter of thank—and abuse, for your not come to

Steynham. you may recognize these pearl.”



the pearl be round her right wrist. he look at the blue vein.



“they’re not pearl of price,” he say.



“I do not wear they to fascinate the jeweller,” rejoin Miss Halkett.

“so you be a candidate at an Election. you still have a tinge of

Africa, do you know? but you have not abandon the navy?”



“—not altogether.”



“oh! no, no: I hope not. I have hear of you,... but who have not? we

cannot spare officer like you. Papa be delighted to hear of your

promotion. Parliament!”



the exclamation be contemptuous.



“it’s the high we can aim at,” Beauchamp observe meekly.



“I think I recollect you use to talk politic when you be a

midshipman,” she say. “you head the aristocracy, do you not?”



“the aristocracy want a head,” say Beauchamp.



“Parliament, in my opinion, be the good of occupation for idle man,”

say she.



“it show that it be a little too full of they.”



“surely the country can go on very well without so much speech-making?”



“it can go on very well for the rich.”



Miss Halkett tap with her foot.



“I should expect a Radical to talk in that way, Nevil.”



“take I for one.”



“I would not even imagine it.”



“say Liberal, then.”



“be you not”—her eye open on he largely, and narrow from

surprise to reproach, and then to pain—be you not one of we? have you

go over to the enemy, Nevil?”



“I have take my side, Cecilia; but we, on our side, don’t talk of an

enemy.”



“most unfortunate! we be Tories, you know, Nevil. papa be a thorough

Tory. he cannot vote for you. indeed I have hear he say he be anxious

to defeat the plot of an old Republican in Bevisham—some doctor there;

and I believe he go to London to look out for a second Tory candidate

to oppose to the Liberals. our present Member be quite safe, of course.

Nevil, this make I unhappy. do you not feel that it be play

traitor to one’s class to join those man?”



such be the Tory way of thinking, Nevil Beauchamp say: the Tories

uphold their Toryism in the place of patriotism.



“but do we not owe the grandeur of the country to the Tories?” she

say, with a lovely air of conviction. “Papa have tell I how false the

whig play the Duke in the Peninsula: ruin his supply, write

he down, declare, all the time he be fight his first hard

battle, that his cause be hopeless—that resistance to Napoleon be

impossible. the Duke never, never have loyal support but from the Tory

Government. the Whigs, papa say, absolutely preach _submission_ to

Napoleon! the whig, I hear, be the Liberals of those day. the two

Pitts be Tories. the greatness of England have be build up by the

Tories. I do and will defend they: it be the fashion to decry they now.

they have the honour and safety of the country at heart. they do not

play disgracefully at reduction of taxis, as the Liberals do. they

have give we all our hero. _Non fu mai gloria senza invidia_. they

have do service enough to despise the envious mob. they never

condescend to supplicate brute force for aid to crush their opponent.

you feel in all they do that the instinct of gentleman be active.”



Beauchamp bow.



“do I speak too warmly?” she ask. “Papa and I have talk over it

often, and especially of late. you will find he your delighted host

and your inveterate opponent.”



“and you?”



“just the same. you will have to pardon I; I be a terrible foe.”



“I declare to you, Cecilia, I would prefer have you against I to

have you indifferent.”



“I wish I have not to think it right that you should be beat. and

now—can you throw off political nevil, and be sailor Nevil? I

distinguish between my old friend, and my... our...”



“dreadful antagonist?”



“not so dreadful, except in the shock he give we to find he in the

opposite rank. I be grieve. but we will finish our sail in peace. I

det controversy. I suppose, Nevil, you would have no such thing as

yacht? they be the enjoyment of the rich!”



he remind she that she wish to finish her sail in peace; and he have

to remind she of it more than once. her scatter resource for

argumentation spring up from various suggestion, such as the flight of

yacht, mention of the shooting season, sight of a royal palace; and

adopt a continually heighten satirical form, oddly intermix with

an undisguised affectionate friendliness. apparently she think it

possible to worry he out of his adhesion to the wrong side in

politic. she certainly have no conception of the nature of his

political view, for one or two extreme proposition fling to he in

jest, he swallow with every sign of a perfect facility, as if the

Radical have come to regard stupendous question as morsel barely

sufficient for his daily sustenance. Cecilia reflect that he must be

play, and as it be not a subject for play she tacitly reprove he

by let he be the last to speak of it. he may not have be

susceptible to the delicate chastisement, probably be not, for when he

cease it be to look on the beauty of her lowered eyelid, rather with

an idea that the weight of his argument lie on they. it breathe from

he; both in the department of logic and of feel, in his plea for

the poor man and his exposition of the poor man’s rightful claim, he

evidently imagine that he have speak overwhelmingly; and to undeceive

he in this respect, for his own good, Cecilia calmly await the

occasion when she might show the vanity of argument in their effort to

overcome conviction. he stand up to take his leave of she, on their

return to the mouth of the Otley river, unexpectedly, so that the

occasion do not arrive; but on his mention an engagement he have to

give a dinner to a journalist and a tradesman of the town of Bevisham,

by way of excuse for not comply with her gentle entreaty that he

would go to Mount Laurels and wait to see the colonel that evening,

“oh! then your choice must be make irrevocably, I be sure,” Miss

Halkett say, rely upon intonation and manner to convey a great deal

more, and not without a minor touch of resentment for his having

drag she into the discussion of politic, which she consider as a

slime wherein man hustle and tussle, no doubt worthily enough, and as

become they; not however to impose the strife upon the elect lady of

earth. what gentleman ever do talk to a young lady upon the dreary

topic seriously? Least of all should Nevil Beauchamp have do it. that

object of her high imagination belong to the exquisite sphere of the

feminine vision of the pure poetic, and she be vex by the discord he

throw between her long-cherish dream and her unanticipated

realization of he, if indeed it be he present himself to she in

his own character, and not trifle, or not pass through a phase of

young man’s madness.



possibly he might be the victim of the latter and more pardonable

state, and so think she give he her hand.



“good-bye, Nevil. I may tell papa to expect you tomorrow?”



“do, and tell he to prepare for a field-day.”



she smile. “a sham fight that will not win you a vote! I hope you will

find your guest this evening agreeable companion.”



Beauchamp half-shrug involuntarily. he obliterate the piece of

treason toward they by say that he hope so; as though the meeting

they, instead of slip on to Mount Laurels with she, be an

enjoyable prospect.



he be drop by the _Esperanza’s_ boat near Otley ferry, to walk

along the beach to Bevisham, and he keep eye on the elegant vessel as

she glide swan-like to her mooring off Mount Laurels park through

dusky merchant craft, collier, and trawler, loosely shake her

tower snow-white sail, unchallenged in her scornful supremacy; an

image of a refinement of beauty, and of a beautiful servicelessness.



as the yacht, so the mistress: thing of wealth, owe their grace to

wealth, devote they to wealth—splendid achievement of art both! and

dedicate to the gratification of the superior sense.



say that they be precious example of an accomplished civilization;

and perhaps they do offer a visible ideal of grace for the rough world

to aim at. they might in the abstract address a bit of a monition to

the uncultivated, and encourage the soul to strive toward perfection,

in beauty: and there be no contest the value of beauty when the soul

be take into account. but be they not in too great a profusion in

proportion to their utility? that be the question for Nevil Beauchamp.

the democratic spirit inhabit he, temporarily or permanently, ask

whether they be not increase to number which be oppressive? and

far, whether it be good, for the country, the race, ay, the

specie, that they should be so distinctly remove from the thousand

who fight the grand, and the grisly, old battle with nature for bread

of life. those grimy sail of the collier and fishing-smack, set they

in a great sea, would have beauty for eye and soul beyond that of

elegance and refinement. and do but look on they thoughtfully, the poor

be everlastingly, unrelievedly, in the abyss of the great sea....



one cannot pursue to conclusion a line of meditation that be

half-build on the sensation as well as on the mind. do Beauchamp at

all desire to have those idly lovely adornment of rich, the Yacht

and the Lady, sweep away? oh, dear, no. he admire they, he be at home

with they. they be much to his taste. stand on a point of the

beach for a last look at they before he set his face to the town, he

prolong the look in a manner to indicate that the place where

business call he be not in comparison at all so pleasing: and just

as little enjoyable be his meditation oppose to predilection.

Beauty pluck the heart from his breast. but he have take up arm; he

have drunk of the _question_ cup, that which denieth peace to we, and

which project we upon the missionary search of the how, the wherefore,

and the why not, ever afterward. he question his justification, and

your, for gratify taste in an ill-regulated world of wrong-doing,

suffering, sin, and bounty unrighteously dispense—not sufficiently

disperse. he say by-and-by to pleasure, battle to-day. from his point

of observation, and with the store of idea and image his fiery yet

reflective youth have gather, he present himself as it be saddle

to that hard-ride force know as the logical impetus, which spy

its quarry over precipice, across ocean and desert, and through

system and webs, and into shop and cabinet of costly china, will

come at it, will not be refuse, let the distance and the breakage be

what they may. he go like the meteoric man with the mechanical leg

in the song, too quick for a cry of protestation, and reach result

amazing to his instinct, his taste, and his training, not less

rapidly and naturally than tremendous Ergo be shoot forth from the clash

of a syllogism.









CHAPTER XVI.

a partial display of beauchamp in his COLOURS





Beauchamp present himself at Mount Laurels next day, and formally

ask Colonel Halkett for his vote, in the presence of Cecilia.



she take it for a playful glance at his new profession of politician:

he speak half-playfully. be it possible to speak in earnest?



“I’m of the opposite party,” say the colonel; as conclusive a reply as

could be: but he at once fall upon the rotten navy of a Liberal

Government. how could a true sailor think of join those Liberals!

the question refer to the country, not to a section of it, Beauchamp

protest with impending emphasis: Tories and Liberals be much the

same in regard to the care of the navy. “Nevil!” exclaim Cecilia. he

cite beneficial liberal bill recently pass, which she accept for

a concession of the navy to the Tories, and she smile. in spite of her

dislike of politic, she have only to listen a few minute to be draw

into the contest: and thus it be that one hot politician make many

among woman and man of a people that have the genius of strife, or else

in this case the young lady do unconsciously feel a deep interest in

refute and overcome Nevil Beauchamp. Colonel Halkett deny the

benefit of those bill. “look,” say he, “at the scarecrow plight of

the army under a Liberal Government!” this lay he open to the charge

that he be for back Administrations instead of principle.



“I do,” say the colonel. “I would rather have a good administration

than all your talk of principle: one’s a fact, but principle?

principle?” he languish for a phrase to describe the hazy thing. “I

have mine, and you have your. it’s like a dispute between religion.

there’s no settle it except by main force. that’s what principle

lead you to.”



principle may be hazy, but heavy artillery be disposable in defence of

they, and Beauchamp fire some reverberate gun for the eternal

against the transitory; with less of the gentlemanly fine taste, the

light and easy social semi-irony, than Cecilia like and would have

expect from he. however, as to principle, no doubt Nevil be right,

and Cecilia draw her father to another position. “be not we Tories to

have principle as well as the Liberals, Nevil?”



“they may have what they call principle,” he admit, intent on

pursue his advantage over the colonel, who say, to shorten the

controversy: “it’s a question of my vote, and my liking. I like a Tory

Government, and I don’t like the Liberals. I like gentleman; I don’t

like a party that attack everything, and beat up the mob for power,

and repay it with sop, and be drag we down from all we be proud

of.”



“but the country be grow, the country want expansion,” say

Beauchamp; “and if your gentleman by birth be not up to the mark, you

must have leader that be.”



“leader who cut down expenditure, to create a panic that double the

outlay! I know they.”



“a _panic_, Nevil.” Cecilia throw stress on the memorable word.



he would hear no reminder in it. the internal condition of the country

be now the point for seriously-minded Englishmen.



“my dear boy, what _have_ you see of the country?” Colonel Halkett

inquire.



“every time I have land, colonel, I have go to the mining and the

manufacturing district, the centre of industry; wherever there be

dissatisfaction. I have attend meeting, to see and hear for myself.

I have read the paper....”



“the paper!”



“well, they’re the mirror of the country.”



“do one see everything in a mirror, Nevil?” say Cecilia: “even in

the smooth?”



he retort softly: “I should be glad to see what you see,” and fell

she with a blush.



for an example of the mirror offer by the Press, Colonel Halkett

touch on Mr. Timothy Turbot’s article in eulogy of the great

Commander Beauchamp. “do you like it?” he ask. “ah, but if you

meddle with politic, you must submit to be hold up on the prong of a

fork, my boy; soap by your backer and shave by the foe; and there’s

a figure for a gentleman! as your uncle Romfrey say.”



Cecilia do not join this discussion, though she have hear from her

father that something grotesque have be write of Nevil. her

foolishness in blush vex body and mind. she be incense by a

silly compliment that strike at her feminine nature when her intellect

stand in arm. yet more hurt be she by the reflection that a too

lively sensibility might have conjure up the idea of the compliment.

and again, she wonder at herself for not resent so rare a

presumption as it imply, and not disdain so outwear a form of

flattery. she wonder at herself too for thinking of resentment and

disdain in relation to the familiar commonplace of licenced

impertinence. over all which hang a darken image of her spirit of

independence, like a moon in eclipse.



where lay _his_ weakness? evidently in the belief that he have think

profoundly. but what minor item of insufficiency or feebleness be

discernible? she discover that he could be easily fret by simile

and metaphor they set he staggering and grope like an ancient

knight of faery in a forest bewitch.



“your specific for the country be, then, Radicalism,” she say, after

listen to an attack on the Tories for their want of a policy and

indifference to the union of class.



“I would prescribe a course of it, Cecilia; yes,” he turn to she.



“the Dr. Dulcamara of a single drug?”



“now you have a name for I! tory argument always come to epithet.”



“it should not be objectionable. be it not honest to pretend to have

only one cure for mortal malady? there can hardly be two panacea,

can there be?”



“so you call I quack?”



“no, Nevil, no,” she breathe a rich contralto note of denial: “but if

the country be the patient, and you will have it swallow your

prescription...”



“there’s nothing like a metaphor for an evasion,” say Nevil, blink

over it.



she draw he another analogy, long than be at all necessary; so

tedious that her father strike through it with the remark:



“concern that quack—that’s one in the background, though!”



“I know of none,” say Beauchamp, well-advise enough to forbear

mention of the name of Shrapnel.



Cecilia petition that her stumble ignorance, which seek the road

of wisdom, might be hear out. she have a reserve entanglement for her

argumentative friend. “you be say, Nevil, that you be for

principle rather than for individual, and you instance Mr. Cougham,

the senior liberal candidate of Bevisham, as one whom you would prefer

to see in Parliament instead of Seymour Austin, though you confess to

Mr. Austin’s far superior merit as a politician and servant of his

country: but Mr. Cougham support Liberalism while Mr. Austin be a

Tory. you be for the principle.”



“I be,” say he, bow.



she ask: “be not that equivalent to the doctrine of election by

Grace?”



Beauchamp interject: “grace! election?”



Cecilia be tender to his inability to follow her allusion.



“thou art a Liberal—then rise to membership,” she say. “accept my

creed, and thou art of the choose. yes, Nevil, you cannot escape from

it. Papa, he preach Calvinism in politic.”



“we stick to man, and good man,” the colonel flourish. “old English

for I!”



“you might as well say, old timber vessel, when Iron’s afloat,

colonel.”



“I suspect you have the bad of it there, papa,” say Cecilia, take

by the unexpectedness and smartness of the comparison come from wit

that she have be undervalue.



“I shall not own I’m worst until I surrender my vote,” the colonel

rejoin.



“I willn’t despair of it,” say Beauchamp.



Colonel Halkett bid he come for it as often as he like. you’ll be

beat in Bevisham, I warn you. tory reckoning be safe: it’s an

admit fact: and _we know_ you cann’t win. accord to my judgement a

man owe a duty to his class.”



“a man owe a duty to his class as long as he see his class do its

duty to the country,” say Beauchamp; and he add, rather prettily in

contrast with the sententious commencement, Cecilia think, that the

apathy of his class be prove when such as he deem it an obligation

on they to come forward and do what little they could. the deduction of

the proof be not clearly consequent, but a meaning be express; and

in that form it bring he near to her abstract idea of Nevil

Beauchamp than when he rage and be precise.



after his departure she talk of he with her father, to be charitably

satirical over he, it seem.



the critic in her ear have pounce on his repetition of certain word

that betray a dialectical stiffness and hint a narrow vocabulary:

his use of emphasis, rather remind she of his uncle Everard, be, in

a young man, a little distressing. “the _apathy_ of the country, papa;

the _apathy_ of the rich; a state of universal _apathy_. will you

inform I, papa, what the Tories be _do?_ do we really give our

conscience to the keeping of the parson once a week, and let they

_dogmatize_ for we to save we from exertion? we must attach ourselves

to _principle; nothing_ be _permanent_ but _principle_. poor Nevil!

and still I be sure you have, as I have, the feeling that one must

respect he. I be quite convinced that he suppose he be do his good

to serve his country by try for Parliament, fancy himself a

Radical. I forget to ask he whether he have visit his great-aunt,

Mrs. Beauchamp. they say the dear old lady have influence with he.”



“I don’t think he’s be anywhere,” Colonel Halkett half laugh at the

quaint fellow. “I wish the other great-nephew of hers be in England,

for we to run he against Nevil Beauchamp. he’s tour the world. I’m

tell he’s orthodox, and a tough debater. we have to take what we can

get.”



“my good wish for your success, and you and I will not talk of

politic any more, papa. I hope Nevil will come often, for his own

good; he will meet his own set of people here. and if he should

dogmatize so much as to rouse our apathy to denounce his principle, we

will remember that we be british, and can be sweet-blooded in

opposition. perhaps he may change, even _tra le tre ore a le quattro:_

electioneering should be a lesson. from my recollection of Blackburn

Tuckham, he be a boisterous boy.”



“he write uncommonly clever letter home to his aunt Beauchamp. she

have hand they to I to read,” say the colonel. “I do like to see

tolerably solid young fellow: they give one some hope of the stability

of the country.”



“they be not so interesting to study, and not half so amusing,” say

Cecilia.



Colonel Halkett mutter his objection to the sort of amusement

furnish by firebrand.



“firebrand be too strong a word for poor nevil,” she remonstrate.



in that estimate of the character of Nevil Beauchamp, Cecilia soon have

to confess that she have be deceive, though not by he.









CHAPTER XVII.

his FRIEND and FOE





look from her window very early on a Sunday morning, Miss Halkett

see Beauchamp stroll across the grass of the park. she dress

hurriedly and go out to greet he, smile and thank he for his

friendliness in come.



he say he be delighted, and appear so, but dash the sweetness.

“you know I cann’t canvass on Sundays!”



“I suppose not,” she reply. “have you walk up from Bevisham? you

must be tired.”



“nothing tire I,” say he.



with that they step on together.



Mount Laurels, a fair broad house back by a wood of beech and fir,

lie open to view on the high grassed knoll of a series of descend

turfy mound dotted with gorseclump, and face South-westerly along

the run of the Otley river to the gleam broad water and its opposite

border of forest, beyond which the down of the island threw long

interlap curve. great ship pass on the line of the water to and

fro; and a little mist of mast of the fishing and coasting craft by

Otley village, near the river’s mouth, be like a web in air. Cecilia

lead he to her dusky wood of fir, where she have raise a bower for a

place of poetical contemplation and read when the clear lap salt

river beneath she be at high tide. she could hail the _Esperanza_ from

that cover; she could step from her drawing-room window, over the

flower-bed, down the gravel walk to the hard, and be on board she

yacht within seven minute, out on her salt-water lake within twenty,

close her wing in a french harbour by nightfall of a summer’s day,

whenever she have the whim to fly abroad. of these enviable privilege

she boast with some happy pride.



“it’s the fine yachting-station in England,” say Beauchamp.



she express herself very glad that he should like it so much.

unfortunately she add, “I hope you will find it pleasanter to be here

than canvass.”



“I have no pleasure in canvassing,” say he. “I canvass poor man

accustomed to be pay for their vote, and who get nothing from I but

what the baron would call a parsonical exhortation. I’m in the thick of

the most spiritless crew in the kingdom. our southern man will not

compare with the man of the north. but still, even among these fellow,

I see danger for the country if our commerce be to fail, if distress

come on they. there’s always danger in disunion. that’s what the rich

willn’t see. they see simply nothing out of their own circle; and they

willn’t take a thought of the overpowering contrast between their luxury

and the way of living, that’s half-starve, of the poor. they

understand it when fever come up from back alley and cottage, and

then they join their effort to sweep the poor out of the district. the

poor be to get to their work anyhow, after a long morning’s walk over

the proscribe space; for we must have poor, you know. the wife of a

parson I canvass yesterday, say to I, ‘who be to work for we, if

you do away with the poor, Captain Beauchamp?’”



Cecilia quit her bower and traverse the wood silently.



“so you would blow up my poor Mount Laurels for a peace-offering to the

low class?”



“I should hope to put it on a strong foundation, Cecilia.”



“by mean of some convulsion?”



“by forestall one.”



“that must be one of the new ironclad,” observe Cecilia, gaze at

the black smoke-pennon of a tower that slip along the water-line.

“yes? you be say? put we on a strong——?”



“it’s, I think, the _Hastings:_ she break down the other day on her

trial trip,” say Beauchamp, watch the ship’s progress animatedly.

“peppel command she—a capital officer. I suppose we must have these

costly big float barrack. I don’t like to hear of everything be

do for the defensive. the defensive be perilous policy in war. it’s

true, the English don’t wake up to their work under half a year. but,

no: defend and look to defence be bad for the fighting power;

and there’s half a million go on that ship. _half a million!_ do you

know how many poor taxpayer it take to make up that sum, Cecilia?”



“a great many,” she slur over they; “but we must have big ship, and

the good that be to be have.”



“powerful fast ram, sea-worthy and fit for run over shallow,

carry one big gun; swarm of harryer and worrier know to be keep

ready for immediate service; readiness for the offensive in case of

war—there’s the good defence against a declaration of war by a foreign

State.”



“I like to hear you, Nevil,” say Cecilia, beam: “Papa think we

have a miserable army—in number. he say, the wealthy we become the

more difficult it be to recruit able-bodied man on the volunteering

system. yet the wealthy we be the more an army be want, both to

defend our wealth and to preserve order. I fancy he half incline to

compulsory enlistment. do speak to he on that subject.”



Cecilia must have be innocent of a design to awaken the fire-flash in

Nevil’s eye. she have no design, but hostility be latent, and hence

perhaps the offend phrase.



he nod and speak coolly. “an army _to preserve order?_ so, then, an

army to threaten civil war!”



“to crush revolutionist.”



“agitator, you mean. my dear good old colonel—I have always love

he—must not have more troop at his command.”



“do you object to the drilling of the whole of the people?”



“do not the colonel, Cecilia? I be sure he do in his heart, and,

for different reason, I do. he willn’t trust the working-class, nor I

the middle.”



“do Dr. Shrapnel hate the middle-class?”



“Dr. Shrapnel cannot hate. he and I be of opinion, that as the

middle-class be the party in power, they would not, if they know the

use of arm, move an inch far in Reform, for they would no long

be in fear of the class below they.”



“but what horrible notion of your country have you, Nevil! it be

dreadful to hear. oh! do let we avoid politic for ever. fear!”



“all concession to the people have be win from fear.”



“I have not hear so.”



“I will read it to you in the history of England.”



“you paint we in a condition of Revolution.”



“happily it’s not a condition unnatural to we. the danger would be in

not let it be progressive, and there’s a little danger too at time

in our slowness. we change our blood or we perish.”



“Dr. Shrapnel?”



“yes, I _have_ hear Dr. Shrapnel say that. and, by-the-way,

Cecilia—will you? can you?—take I for the witness to his character. he

be the most guileless of man, and he’s the most unguarded. my good

Rosamund see he. she be easily prejudice when she be a trifle

jealous, and you may hear from she that he ramble, talk wildly. it

may seem so. I maintain there be wisdom in he when conventional mind

would think he at his wild. believe I, he be the human, the

good of man, tenderhearte as a child: the most benevolent,

simple-minded, admirable old man—the man I be proud to think of as

an Englishman and a man live in my time, of all man exist. I cann’t

overpraise he.”



“he have a bad reputation.”



“only with the class that will not meet he and answer he.”



“must we invite he to our house?”



“it would be difficult to get he to come, if you do. I mean, meet he

in debate and answer his argument. try the question by brain.”



“before mob?”



“_not_ before mob. I punish you by answer you seriously.”



“I be sensible of the flattery.”



“before mob!” Nevil ejaculate. “it’s the Tories that mob together and

cry down every man who appear to they to threaten their privilege.

can you guess what Dr. Shrapnel compare they to?”



“indeed, Nevil, I have not an idea. I only wish your patriotism be

large enough to embrace they.”



“he compare they to geese claim possession of the whole common, and

hiss at every foot of ground they have to yield. they’re always

have to retire and always hiss. ‘retreat and menace,’ that’s the

motto for they.”



“very well, Nevil, I be a goose upon a common.”



so say, Cecilia swam forward like a swan on water to give the

morning kiss to her papa, by the open window of the breakfast-room.



never do bird of Michaelmas fle off water from her feather more

thoroughly than this fair young lady the false title she pretend to

assume.



“I hear you’re of the dinner party at Grancey Lespel’s on Wednesday,”

the colonel say to Beauchamp. “you’ll have to stand fire.”



“_they_ will, papa,” murmur Cecilia. “will Mr. Austin be there?”



“I particularly wish to meet Mr. Austin,” say Beauchamp.



“listen to he, if you do meet he,” she reply.



his look be rather grave.



“Lespel’s a Whig,” he say.



the colonel answer. “Lespel _be_ a Whig. once a Tory always a

Tory,—but court the people and you’re on quicksand, and that’s where

the whig be. what he be now I don’t think he know himself. you willn’t

get a vote.”



Cecilia watch her friend Nevil recover from his short fit of

gloom. he dismiss politic at breakfast and grow companionable, with

the charm of his early day. he be willing to accompany she to church

too.



“you will hear a long sermon,” she warn he.



“forty minute.” Colonel Halkett smother a yawn that be both retro

and prospective.



“it have be fifty, papa.”



“it have be an hour, my dear.”



it be good discipline nevertheless, the colonel affirm, and Cecilia

praise the Rev. Mr. Brisk of Urplesdon vicarage as one of our few

remain protestant clergyman.



“then he ought to be support,” say Beauchamp. “in the dissension of

religious body it be wise to pat the weak party on the back—I quote

Stukely Culbrett.”



“I’ve hear he,” sigh the colonel. “he call the protestant clergy

the social police of the english middle-class. those be the thing he

let fly. I have hear that man say that the Church stand to show the

passion of the human race for the drama. he say it in my presence. and

there’s a man who call himself a Tory!



“you have rather too much of that playing at grudge and dislike at

Steynham, with squib, nickname, and jest at thing that—well, that

our stability be bind up in. I hate squib.”



“and I,” say Beauchamp. some shadow of a frown cross he; but

stukely Culbrett’s humour seem to be a refuge. “protestant

_parson_—not clergy,” he correct the colonel. “cann’t you hear Mr.

Culbrett, Cecilia? the protestant parson be the policeman set to watch

over the respectability of the middle-class. he have sharp eye for the

sin of the poor. as for the rich, they support his church; they listen

to his sermon—to set an example: _discipline_, colonel. you discipline

the tradesman, who’s afraid of lose your custom, and the labourer,

who might be deprive of his bread. but the people? it’s put down to

the wickedness of human nature that the parson have not get hold of the

people. the parson have lose they by senseless Conservatism, because

they look to the Tories for the support of their church, and let the

religion run down the gutter. and how many thousand have you at work

in the pulpit every Sunday? I’m tell the dissent minister have some

vitality.”



Colonel Halkett shrug with disgust at the mention of dissenter.



“and those thirty or forty thousand, colonel, call the man that do the

work they ought to be do demagogue. the parsonry be a power

absolutely to be count for waste, as to progress.”



Cecilia perceive that her father be begin to be fret.



she say, with a tact that effect its object: “I be one who hear Mr.

Culbrett without admire his wit.”



“no, and I see no good in this kind of Steynham talk,” Colonel Halkett

say, rise. “we’re none of we perfect. Heaven save we from political

parson!”



Beauchamp be hear to utter, “Humanity.”



the colonel leave the room with Cecilia, mutter the Steynham tail to

that word: “tomtity,” for the solace of an aside repartee.



she be on her way to dress for church. he draw she into the library,

and there throw open a vast placard lie on the table. it be print

in blue character and red. “this be what I get by the post this

morning. I suppose Nevil know about it. he want tickling, but I don’t

like this kind of thing. it’s not fair war. it’s as bad as use

explosive bullet in my old game.”



“_can_ he expect his adversary to be tender with he?” Cecilia

simulate vehemence in an underbreath. she glance down the page:



“FRENCH MARQUEES” catch her eye.



it be a page of verse. and, oh! could it have issue from a Tory

Committee?



“the Liberals be as bad, and bad,” her father say.



she become more and more distressed. “it seem so very mean, papa; so

base. ungenerous be no word for it. and how vulgar! now I remember,

Nevil say he wish to see Mr. Austin.”



“Seymour Austin would not sanction it.”



“no, but Nevil might hold he responsible for it.”



“I suspect Mr. Stukely Culbrett, whom he quote, and that smoking-room

lot at Lespel’s. I distinctly discountenance it. so I shall tell they

on Wednesday night. can you keep a secret?”



“and after all Nevil Beauchamp be very young, papa!—of course I can

keep a secret.”



the colonel exact no word of honour, feel quite sure of she.



he whisper the secret in six word, and her cheek glow vermilion.



“but they will meet on Wednesday after _this_,” she say, and her sight

go dance down the column of verse, of which the follow trotting

couplet be a speciman:—



“o do you ever, hot in love, a little british middy see,

like Orpheus ask what the deuce to do without Eurydice?”



the middy be jilt by his FRENCH marquees, whom he “do adore,” and in

his wrath he recommend himself to the wealthy widow Bevisham,

concern whose choice of her suitor there be a doubt: but the middy

be encourage to persevere:



“up, up, my pretty middy; take a draught of foam Sillery;

go in and win the uriddy with your radical artillery.”



and if Sillery will not do, he be advise, he be for superlative,

to try the sparkle _Silliery_ of the Radical vintage, select

grape.



this be but impudent nonsense. but the reiterate apostrophe to “MY

FRENCH MARQUEES” be consider by Cecilia to be a brutal offence.



she be shocked that her party should have be guilty of it. Nevil

certainly provoke, and he require, hard blow; and his uncle Everard

might be right in tell her father that they be the good mean of

teach he to come to his understanding. still a foul and stupid

squib do appear to she a debasing weapon to use.



“I cannot congratulate you on your choice of a second candidate, papa,”

she say scornfully.



“I don’t much congratulate myself,” say the colonel.



“here’s a letter from Mrs. Beauchamp inform I that her boy

Blackburn will be home in a month. there would have be plenty of time

for he. however, we must make up our mind to it. those two’ll be

meeting on Wednesday, so keep your secret. it will be out tomorrow

week.”



“but Nevil will be accuse Mr. Austin.”



“Austin willn’t be at Lespel’s. and he must bear it, for the sake of

peace.”



“be Nevil ruin with his uncle, papa?”



“not a bit, I should imagine. it’s Romfrey’s fun.”



“and this disgraceful squib be a part of the fun?”



“that I know nothing about, my dear. I’m sorry, but there’s pitch and

tar in politic as well as on shipboard.”



“I do not see that there should be,” say Cecilia resolutely.



“we cann’t hope to have what should be.”



“why not? I would have it: I would do my utmost to have it,” she flame

out.



“your _utmost?_” her father be glance at her foregone mimicry of

Beauchamp’s occasional stroke of emphasis. “do your utmost to have

your bonnet on in time for we to walk to church. I cann’t bear drive

there.”



Cecilia go to her room with the curious reflection, awaken by what

her father have chance to suggest to her mind, that she likewise could

be fervid, positive, uncompromising—who know? Radicalish, perhaps,

when she look eye to eye on an evil. for a moment or so she espy

within herself a gulf of possibility, wherein black night-bird,

know as query, rouse by shot of light, do flap their wings.—Her

utmost to have be what should be! and why not?



but the intemperate feeling subside while she be do duty before

her mirror, and the visionary gulf close immediately.



she have merely be very angry on Nevil Beauchamp’s behalf, and have

dimly see that a woman can feel insurgent, almost revolutionary, for a

personal cause, Tory though her instinct of safety and love of

smoothness make she.



no reflection upon this casual piece of self or sex revelation trouble

her head. she do, however, think of her position as the friend of

Nevil in utter antagonism to he. it beset she with contradiction that

blow rough on her cherish serenity; for she be of the order of

lady who, by virtue of their pride and spirit, their port and their

beauty, decree unto themselves the rank of princess among woman,

before our world have try their claim to it. she have live hitherto in

upper air, high above the cloud of earth. her ideal of a man be of

one similarly disengaged and lofty—loftier. Nevil, she could honestly

say, be not her ideal; he be only her old friend, and she be oppose

to he in his present adventure. the striking at he to cure he of his

mental error and excess be an obligation; she could descend upon

he calmly with the chasten rod, point to the well way; but the

shielding of he be a different thing; it drag she down so low,

that in her condemnation of the Tory squib she find herself ask

herself whether haply Nevil have fling off the yoke of the french lady;

with the foolish excuse for the question, that if he have not, he must

be bitterly sensitive to the slight public allusion to she. have he?

and if not, how desperately faithful he be! or else how marvellously

seductive she!



perhaps it be a lover’s despair that have precipitate he into the

mire of politic. she conceive the impression that it must be so, and

throughout the day she have an inexplicable unsweet pleasure in incite

he to argumentation and combat he, though she be compel to

admit that he have be colloquially charming antecedent to her naughty

provocation; and though she be indebted to he for his patient decorum

under the weary wave of the Reverend Mr. Brisk. now what do it matter

what a woman think in politic? but he deem it of great moment.

politically, he deem that woman have soul, a certain fire of life

for exercise on earth. he appeal to reason in they; he would not hear

of conviction. he quote the Bevisham doctor: “conviction be

generally first impression that be seal with later prejudice,” and

insist there be wisdom in it. nothing tire he, as he have say, and

address woman or man, no prospect of fatigue or of hopeless effort

daunt he in the endeavour to correct an error of judgement in

politics—_his_ notion of an error. the value he put upon speak,

urge his view, be really fanatical. it appear that he canvass

the borough from early morning till near midnight, and nothing would

persuade he that his chance be poor; nothing that an entrenched tory

like her father, be not to be win even by an assault of all the

reserve force of radical pathos, prognostication, and statistic.



only conceive Nevil Beauchamp knock at door late at night, the

sturdy beggar of a vote! or waylay workman, as he confess without

shame that he have do, on their way troop to their midday meal;

penetrate malodoriferous room of dismal ten-pound cottager, to

exhort bedraggle mother and babe, and besotte husband; and expose

to rebuff from impertinent tradesman; and lampoon and travesty,

shout speech to roar man, push from shoulder to shoulder of

the mob!...



Cecilia drop a curtain on her mind’s picture of he. but the

blind curtain rekindle the thought that the line he have take could

not but be the desperation of a lover abandon. she fear it be, she

fear it be not. Nevil Beauchamp’s foe persist in fear that it

be not; his friend fear that it be. yet why? for if it be, then he

could not be quite in earnest, and might be cure. Nay, but earnestness

work out its own cure more surely than frenzy, and it should be

preferable to think he sound of heart, sincere though mistaken.

Cecilia could not decide upon what she dare wish for his health’s

good. friend and foe be not far separable within her bosom than

one tick from another of a clock; they change place, and next his

friend be fear what his foe have fear: they be inextricable.



why have he not spring up on a radiant aquiline ambition, whither one

might have follow he, with eye and prayer for he, if it be not

possible to do so companionably? at present, in the shape of a

canvassing candidate, it be hardly honourable to let imagination dwell

on he, save compassionately.



when he rise to take his leave, Cecilia say, “_must_ you go to

Itchincope on Wednesday, Nevil?”



Colonel Halkett add: “I don’t think I would go to Lespel’s if I be

you. I rather suspect Seymour Austin will be come on Wednesday, and

that’ll detain I here, and you might join we and lend he an ear for

an evening.”



“I have particular reason for go to Lespel’s; I hear he waver

toward a Tory conspiracy of some sort,” say Beauchamp.



the colonel hold his tongue.



the untiring young candidate choose to walk down to Bevisham at eleven

o’clock at night, that he might be the readier to continue his canvass

of the borough on Monday morning early. he be offer a bed or a

conveyance, and he decline both; the dog-cart he decline out of

consideration for horse and groom, which an owner of stable could not

but approve.



Colonel Halkett break into exclamation of pity for so good a young

fellow so misguided.



the night be moonless, and Cecilia, look through the window, say

whimsically, “he have go out into the darkness, and be no light in

it!”



certainly none shine. she however carry a lamp that reveal he

foot on with a wonderful air of confidence, and she be rather

surprised to hear her father regret that Nevil Beauchamp should be

lose his good look already, owe to that miserable business of his

in Bevisham. she would have think the contrary, that he be look

as well as ever.



“he dress just as he use to dress,” she observe.



the individual style of a naval officer of breeding, in which you see

neatness trifle with disorder, or disorder pluck at neatness, like

the breeze a trim vessel, have be catch to perfection by Nevil

Beauchamp, accord to Cecilia. it present he to her mind in a

cheerful and a very undemocratic aspect, but in realize it, the

thought, like something flash black, cross she—how attractive such

a style must be to a Frenchwoman!



“he may look a little worn,” she acquiesce.









CHAPTER XVIII.

concern the ACT of canvassing





Tories dread the restlessness of Radicals, and Radicals be in awe of

the organization of Tories. Beauchamp think anxiously of the high

degree of confidence exist in the Tory camp, whose chief could

afford to keep aloof, while he slave all day and half the night to

thump idea into head, like a cooper on a cask:—an impassione cooper

on an empty cask! if such an image be presentable. even so enviously

sometimes the writer and the barrister, man dependent on their active

wit, regard the man with a business fix in an office manage by

clerk. that man seem by comparison celestially seat. but he have his

fit of trepidation; for new taste prevail and new habit be form,

and the structure of his business will not allow he to adapt himself

to they in a minute. the secure and comfortable have to pay in

occasional panic for the serenity they enjoy. Mr. Seymour Austin

candidly avow to Colonel Halkett, on his arrival at Mount Laurels,

that he be advise to take up his quarter in the neighbourhood of

Bevisham by a recent report of his committee, describe the young

Radical’s canvass as redoubtable. Cougham he do not fear: he could

make a sort of calculation of the vote for the Liberal thumping on the

old drum of reform; but the number for he who appeal to feeling and

quicken the romantic sentiment of the common people now huddle

within our electoral penfold, be not calculable. Tory and Radical have

an eye for one another, which overlook the Liberal at all time except

when he be, as they imagine, play the game of either of they.



“now we shall see the passion work,” Mr. Austin say, deplore the

extension of the franchise.



he ask whether Beauchamp speak well.



Cecilia leave it to her father to reply; but the colonel appeal to

she, say, “inclined to dragoon one, ben’t he?”



she do not think that. “he speak... he speak well in conversation. I

fancy he would be like by the poor. I should doubt his be a good

public speaker. he certainly have command of his temper: that be one

thing. I cannot say whether it favour oratory. he be indefatigable.

one may be sure he will not faint by the way. he quite believe in

himself. but, Mr. Austin, do you really regard he as a serious rival?”



Mr. Austin could not tell. no one could tell the effect of an extended

franchise. the untried venture of it depress he. “man have come

suddenly on a borough before now and carry it,” he say.



“not a borough like Bevisham?”



he shake his head. “a fluid borough, I’m afraid.”



Colonel Halkettt interpose: “but Ferbrass be quite sure of his

district.”



Cecilia wish to know who the man be, of the mediaevally sound

name.



“Ferbrass be an old lawyer, my dear. he come of five generation of

lawyer, and he’s as old in the county as Grancey Lespel. Hitherto he

have always be to be count on for march his district to the poll

like a regiment. that’s our strength—the profession, especially

lawyer.”



“be not a great many lawyer Liberals, papa?”



“a great many _barrister_ be, my dear.”



Thereat the colonel and Mr. Austin smile together.



it be a new idea to Cecilia that Nevil Beauchamp should be consider

by a man of the world anything but a well-mean, moderately

ridiculous young candidate; and the fact that one so experienced as

Seymour Austin deem he an adversary to be grapple with in earnest,

create a small revolution in her mind, entirely alter her view of

the probable pliability of his Radicalism under pressure of time and

circumstance. many of his remark, that she have previously half smile

at, come across her memory hard as metal. she begin to feel some terror

of he, and say, to reassure herself: “Captain Beauchamp be not likely

to be a champion with a very large following. he be too much of a

political mystic, I think.”



“many young man be, before they have write out a fair copy of their

meaning,” say Mr. Austin.



Cecilia laugh to herself at the vision of the fiery Nevil engage in

write out a fair copy of his meaning. how many erasure! what

foot-note!



the arrangement be for Cecilia to proceed to Itchincope alone for a

couple of day, and bring a party to Mount Laurels through Bevisham by

the yacht on Thursday, to meet Mr. Seymour Austin and Mr. Everard

Romfrey. an early day of the next week have be agree on for the

unmasking of the second Tory candidate. she promise that in case Nevil

Beauchamp should have the hardihood to enter the enemy’s nest at

Itchincope on Wednesday, at the great dinner and ball there, she would

do she good to bring he back to Mount Laurels, that he might meet his

uncle Everard, who be expect there. at least he may consent to come

for an evening,” she say. “nothing will take he from that canvassing.

it seem to I it must be not merely distasteful...?”



Mr. Austin reply: “it’s disagreeable, but it’s the practice. I would

gladly be bind by a common undertaking to abstain.”



“Captain Beauchamp argue that it would be all to your advantage. he

say that a personal visit be the only chance for an unknown candidate

to make the people acquaint with he.”



“it’s a very good opportunity for make he acquaint with _they;_

and I hope he may profit by it.”



“ah! pah! ‘to beg the vote and wink the bribe,’” Colonel Halkett

subjoin abhorrently:



‘“it well become the Whiggish tribe

to beg the vote and wink the bribe.’



canvassing mean intimidation or corruption.”



“or the mixture of the two, call cajolery,” say Mr. Austin; “and

that be the principal art of the Whigs.”



thus do these gentleman converse upon canvassing.



it be not possible to gather up in one volume of sound the rattle of

the knock at Englishmen’s castle-gate during election day; so, with

the thunder of it unheard, the majesty of the act of canvassing can be

but barely appreciable, and he, therefore, who would celebrate it must

follow the candidate obsequiously from door to door, where, like a

cross between a postman deliver a bill and a beggar craving an alm,

patiently he attempt the extraction of the vote, as little boy pick

periwinkle with a pin.



“this be your duty, which I most abjectly entreat you to do,” be pretty

nearly the form of the supplication.



how if, instead of the solicitation of the thousand by the unit, the

meritorious unit be beseech by rush thousands?—as a mound of the

plain that be circumvent by flood, and to which the water cry, be

thou our island. let it be answer the questioner, with no

discourteous adjective, Thou fool! to come to such height of popular

discrimination and political ardour the people would have to be

vivified to a pitch little short of eruptive: it would be Boreas

blow AEtna inside they; and we should have impulse at work in the

country, and immense importance attach to a man’s whether he will or

he won’t—enough to womanize he. we should be all but have Parliament

for a sample of our choicest rather than our like: and see you not a

peril in that?



Conceive, for the fleeting instant permit to such insufferable

flight of fancy, our pick man rule! so despotic an oligarchy as

would be there, be not a happy subject of contemplation. it be not too

much to say that a domination of the Intellect in England would at once

and entirely alter the face of the country. we should be govern by

the head with a vengeance: all the rest of the country be base

member indeed; spartan—helot. Criticism, now so helpful to we, would

wither to the root: fun would die out of Parliament, and outside of it:

we could never laugh at our master, or command they: and that good

old-fashioned shouldering of separate interest, which, if it stop

progress, like a block in the pit entrance to a theatre, prove we

equal before the law, put an end to the pretence of high merit in

the one or the other, and render a stout build the safe assurance

for come through ultimately, would be transform to a painful

orderliness, like a City procession under the conduct of the police,

and to classification of thing accord to their public value:

decidedly no benefit to burly freedom. none, if there be no

shouldering and hustling, could tell whether actually the fit

survive; as be now the case among survivor delight in a

broad-cheste fitness.



and consider the freezing isolation of a body of our quintessential

elect, see below they none to resemble they! do you not hear in

imagination the land’s regret for that amiable nobility whose

pretension be comically build on birth, acre, tailoring, style, and

an air? ah, that these unchallengeable new lord could be exchange for

those old one! these, with the tradition of how great people should

look in our country, these would pass among we like berg of ice—a pure

polar aristocracy, inflict the woe of wintriness upon we. keep they

from concentrate! at present I believe it to be their honest opinion,

their wise opinion, and the sole opinion common to a majority of they,

that it be more salutary, besides more diverting, to have the fool of

the kingdom represent than not. as professor of the sarcastic art

they can easily take the dignity out of the fool’ representative at

their pleasure, show he at antic while he suppose he be

exhibit an honourable and a decent series of movement. generally,

too, their archery can check he when he be for any of his measure;

and if it do not check, there appear to be such a property in simple

sneering, that it console even when it fail to right the balance of

power. Sarcasm, we well know, confer a title of aristocracy

straightway and sharp on the sconce of the man who do but imagine

that he be use it. what, then, must be the elevation of these prince

of the intellect in their own mind! hardly worth barter for worldly

commandership, it be evident.



Briefly, then, we have a system, not plan but grow, the outcome and

image of our genius, and all be dissatisfied with part of it; but, as

each would preserve his own, the sure guarantee be obtain for the

integrity of the whole by a happy adjustment of the energy of

opposition, which—you have only to look to see—go far beyond concord

in the promotion of harmony. this be our english system; like our

English pudding, a fortuitous concourse of all the sweet in the

grocer’s shop, but an excellent thing for all that, and let none

threaten it. canvassing appear to be mix up in the system; at least

I hope I have show that it will not do to reverse the process, for

fear of change lead to a sovereignty of the austere and

antipathetic Intellect in our England, that would be an inaccessible

tyranny of a very small minority, necessarily follow by tremendous

convulsion.









CHAPTER XIX.

LORD PALMET, and certain electors of BEVISHAM





meantime the candidate raise knocker, rang bell, bow, expound

their view, praise their virtue, beg for vote, and greatly and

strangely do the young of they enlarge his knowledge of his

countryman. but he have an insatiable appetite, and except in relation

to Mr. Cougham, considerable tolerance. with Cougham, he be like a

young hound in the leash. they have to run as twin; but Beauchamp’s

conjunct would not run, he would walk. he impose his experience on

Beauchamp, with an assumption that it must necessarily be take for the

law of Beauchamp’s reason in electoral and in political affair, and

this be hard on Beauchamp, who have faith in his reason. beauchamp’s

early canvassing bring Cougham down to Bevisham early than usual in

the day when he and Seymour Austin divide the borough, and he

incline to administer correction to the radically-dispose youngster.

“yes, I have go all over that,” he say, in speech sometimes, in

manner perpetually, upon the intrusion of an idea by his junior.

Cougham also, Cougham have pass through his radical phase, as one do

on the road to wisdom. so the frog telleth tadpole: he too have

wriggle most preposterous of tail; and he have shove a circular flat

head into corner unadapte to its shape; and that the undeveloped one

should dutifully listen to experience and accept guidance, be devoutly

to be hope. alas! beauchamp would not be teach that though they be

yoke they stand at the opposite end of the process of evolution.



the oddly couple pair deplore, among their respective friend, the

disastrous siamese twinship create by a haphazard improvident Liberal

camp. look at we! they said:—Beauchamp be a young demagogue; Cougham be

chrysali Tory. such Liberals be the ruin of Liberalism; but of such

must it be compose when there be no new cry to loosen flood. it be

too late to think of an operation to divide they. they hold the heart

of the cause between they, be bind fast together, and have to go on.

Beauchamp, with a furious tug of Radicalism, speak or perform,

pull Cougham on his beam-end. Cougham, to right himself, define his

liberalism sharply from the politic of the pit, point to France and

her Revolutions, wash his hand of excess, and entirely overset

Beauchamp. see that he stand in the liberal interest, the junior

could not abandon the liberal flag; so he seize it and bear it ahead

of the time, there where radical trip their phantom dance like

shadow on a fog, and wave it as the very flag of our perfectible

race. so great be the impetus that Cougham have no choice but to step

out with he briskly—voluntarily as a man propel by a hand on his

coat-collar. a word save he: the word practical. “be we practical?”

he inquire, and shiver Beauchamp’s galloping frame with a violent

application of the stop abrupt; for that question, “be we practical?”

penetrate the bosom of an english audience, and will surely elicit a

response if not plaudit. practical or not, the good people affectingly

wish to be think practical. it have be ask by they.



if we’re not practical, what be we?—Beauchamp, talk to Cougham

apart, would argue that the daring and the far-sight course be often

the most practical. Cougham extend a deprecate hand: “yes, I have

go over all that.” occasionally he be madden.



the melancholy position of the senior and junior Liberals be know

abroad and matter of derision.



it happen that the gay and good-humour young Lord Palmet, heir to

the earldom of Elsea, walk up the High Street of Bevisham, meet

Beauchamp on Tuesday morning as he sally out of his hotel to canvass.

Lord Palmet be one of the numerous half-friend of Cecil Baskelett,

and it may be a revelation of his character to you, that he own to

like Beauchamp because of his having always be a favourite with the

woman. he begin chatter, with Beauchamp’s hand in his: “I’ve hit on

you, have I? my dear fellow, Miss Halkett be talk of you last

night. I sleep at Mount Laurels; go on purpose to have a peep. I’m

bind for Itchincope. they’ve some grand procession in view there;

Lespel write for my team; I suspect he’s for start some new October

race. he talk of half-a-dozen drag. he must have lot of woman

there. I _say_, what a splendid creature Cissy Halkett have shoot up! she

top the season this year, and will next. you’re for the darkie,

Beauchamp. so be I, when I don’t see a blonde; just as a fellow admire

a girl when there’s no married woman or widow in sight. and, I say, it

cann’t be true you’ve go in for that crazy Radicalism? there’s nothing

to be gain by it, you know; the woman hate it! a married blonde of

five-and-twenty’s the Venus of they all. mind you, I don’t forget that

Mrs. Wardour-Devereux be a thorough-pace brunette; but, upon my

honour, I’d bet on Cissy Halkett at forty. ‘a dark eye in woman,’ if

you like, but blue and auburn drive it into a corner.”



Lord Palmet conclude by ask Beauchamp what he be do and whither

go.



Beauchamp propose to he maliciously, as one of our hereditary

legislator, to come and see something of canvass. Lord Palmet have

no objection. “capital opportunity for a review of their woman,” he

remark.



“I map the place for pretty woman in England; some part of Norfolk,

and a spot or two in Cumberland and Wales, and the island over there, I

know thoroughly. those Jutes have turn out some splendid fair woman.

Devonshire’s worth a tour. my man Davis be in charge of my team, and he

drive to Itchincope from Washwater station. I be independent; I’ll

have an hour with you. do you think much of the woman here?”



Beauchamp have not notice they.



Palmet observe that he should not have notice anything else.



“but you be qualify for the _Upper_ House,” Beauchamp say in the

tone of an encomium.



Palmet accept the statement. “though I shall never care to figure

before peeress,” he say. “I cann’t tell you why. there’s a heavy

sprinkling of the old bird among they. it ben’t that. there’s too much

plumage; I think it must be that. a cloud of millinery shoot I off a

mile from a woman. in my opinion, witch be the only one for wear

jewel without chill the feminine atmosphere about they. fellow

think differently.” Lord Palmet wave a hand expressive of purely

amiable tolerance, for this question upon the most important topic of

human affair be deep, and no judgement should be hasty in settle

it. “I’m peculiar,” he resume. “a rose and a string of pearl: a woman

who go beyond that’s in danger of petrify herself and her fellow

man. two woman in Paris, last winter, set we on fire with pale thin

gold ornament—neck, wrist, ear, ruche, skirt, all in a flutter, and

so be you. but you feel witchcraft. ‘the magical Orient,’ Vivian

Ducie call the blonde, and the dark beauty, ‘Young Endor.’”



“her name?” say Beauchamp.



“a marquise; I forget her name. the other be Countess Rastaglione; you

must have hear of she; a tower witch, an empress, Helen of Troy;

though Ducie would have it the brunette be queen of _Paris_. for

french taste, if you like.”



Countess Rastaglione be a lady enamel on the scroll of Fame. “do

you see they together?” say Beauchamp. “they ben’t together?”



Palmet look at he and laugh. “you’re yourself again, be you? go

to Paris in January, and cut out the Frenchmen.”



“answer I, Palmet: they ben’t in couple?”



“I fancy not. it be luck to meet they, so they couldn’t have be.”



“do you dance with either of they?”



unable to state accurately that he have, Palmet cry, “oh! for dancing,

the Frenchwoman beat the Italian.”



“do you see she often—more than once?”



“my dear fellow, I go everywhere to see she: ball, theatre,

promenade, ride, church.”



“and you say she dress up to the Italian, to challenge she, rival

she?”



“only one night; simple accident. everybody notice it, for they stand

for Night and Day,—both hang with gold; the brunette etruscan, and the

blonde Asiatic; and every Frenchman present be epigramize up and

down the room like mad.”



“her husband’s legitimist; he wouldn’t be at the Tuileries?” Beauchamp

speak half to himself.



“what, then, what?” Palmet stare and chuckle. “her husband must have

take the Tuileries’ bait, if we mean the same woman. my dear old

Beauchamp, have I see she, then? she’s a darling! the Rastaglione be

nothing to she. when you do light on a grand smoky pearl, the milky

one may go and decorate plaster. that’s what I say of the lovely

brunette. it must be the same: there cann’t be a couple of dark

beauty in Paris without a noise about they. Marquise—? I shall

recollect her name presently.”



“here’s one of the house I stop at,” say Beauchamp, “and drop that

subject.”



a scared servant-girl bring out her wizene mistress to confront the

candidate, and to this representative of the sex he address his art

of persuasion, request she to repeat his word to her husband. the

contrast between Beauchamp palpably canvass and the Beauchamp who

be the lover of the Marquise of the forget name, strike too

powerfully on Palmet for his gravity he retreat.



Beauchamp find he saunter on the pavement, and would have

dismiss he but for an agreeable diversion that occur at that

moment. a suavely smile unctuous old gentleman advance to they,

bow, and presume thus far, he say, under the supposition that he

be accost the junior liberal candidate for the borough. he

announce his name and his principle Tomlinson, progressive Liberal.



“a true distinction from some liberal I know,” say Beauchamp.



Mr. Tomlinson hope so. never, he say, do he leave it to the man of

his choice at an election to knock at his door for the vote.



Beauchamp look as if he have swallow a cordial. vote fall into

his lap be heavenly gift to the candidate sick of the knocker and the

bell. Mr. Tomlinson eulogize the manly candour of the junior liberal

candidate’s address, in which he profess to see idea that

distinguish it from the address of the sound but otherwise

conventional Liberal, Mr. Cougham. he mutter of plump for

Beauchamp. “don’t plump,” Beauchamp say; and a candidate, if he would

be an honourable twin, must say it. Cougham have caution he against

the heresy of plump.



they discourse of the poor and their beverage, of pothouse, of the

anti-liquorite, and of the duty of parson, and the value of a

robust and right-minded body of the poor to the country. Palmet find

himself follow they into a tolerably spacious house that he take to

be the old gentleman’s until some of the apparatus of an Institute for

literary and scientific instruction reveal itself to he, and he

hear Mr. Tomlinson exalt the memory of one Wingham for the blessing

bequeath by he to the town of Bevisham. “for,” say Mr. Tomlinson,

“it be open to both sex, to all respectable class, from ten in the

morning up to ten at night. such a place afford we, I would venture to

say, the advantage without the seduction of a Club. I rank it next—at

a far remove, but next—the church.”



Lord Palmet bring his eye down from the bust of certain worthy

range along the top of the book-shelf to the cushioned chair, and

murmur, “capital place for an appointment with a woman.”



Mr. Tomlinson gaze up at he mildly, with a fallen countenance. he

turn sadly agape in silence to the bust, the book, and the range of

scientific instrument, and direct a gaze under his eyebrow at

Beauchamp. “do your friend canvass with you?” he inquire.



“I want he to taste it,” Beauchamp reply, and immediately introduce

the affable young lord—a proceeding mark by some of the dexterity he

have once be famous for, as be show by a subsequent observation of

Mr. Tomlinson’s:



“yes,” he say, on the question of class, “yes, I fear we have

class in this country whose habitual levity sharp experience will

have to correct. I very much fear it.”



“but if you have class that be not to face reality class that

look on they from the box-seat of a theatre,” say Beauchamp, “how can

you expect perfect seriousness, or any good service whatever?”



“gently, sir, gently. no; we can, I feel confident, expand within the

limit of our most excellent and approve Constitution. I could wish

that socially... that be all.”



“socially and politically mean one thing in the end,” say Beauchamp.

“if you have a nation politically corrupt, you willn’t have a good state

of moral in it, and the law that keep society together bear upon the

politic of a country.”



“true; yes,” Mr. Tomlinson hesitate assent. he dissociate Beauchamp

from Lord Palmet, but feel keenly that the latter’s presence desecrate

Wingham’s Institute, and he inform the candidate that he think he

would no long detain he from his labour.



“just the sort of place want in every provincial town,” Palmet

remark by way of a parting compliment.



Mr. Tomlinson bow a civil acknowledgement of his having again speak.



no further mention be make of the miraculous vote which have rise

responsive to the candidate’s address of its own inspire motion; so

Beauchamp say, “I beg you to bear in mind that I request you not to

plump.”



“you may be right, Captain Beauchamp. good day, sir.”



Palmet strode after Beauchamp into the street.



“why do you set I bow to that old boy?” he ask.



“why do you talk about woman?” be the rejoinder.



“oh, aha!” Palmet sing to himself. “you’re a Romfrey, Beauchamp. a blow

for a blow! but I only say what would strike every fellow first off.

it _be_ the place; the very place. pastry-cook’ shop willn’t stand

comparison with it. don’t tell I you’re the man not to see how much a

woman prefer to be under the wing of science and literature, in a

good-sized, well-warm room, with a book, instead of make believe,

with a red face, over a tart.”



he receive a smart lecture from Beauchamp, and begin to think he have

enough of canvass. but he be not suffer to escape. for his

instruction, for his positive and extreme good, Beauchamp determine

that the heir to an earldom should have a day’s lesson. we will hope

there be no intention to punish he for having freeze the genial

current of Mr. Tomlinson’s vote and interest; and it may be that he

cling to one who have, as he imagine, see Renée. accompany by a Mr.

Oggler, a tradesman of the town, on the Liberal committee, dress in a

pea-jacket and proudly nautical, they apply for the vote, and find

it oftener than beauty. Palmet contrast his repeat disappointment

with the scoring of two, three, four and more in the candidate’s list,

and inform he that he would certainly get the Election. “I think

you’re sure of it,” he say. “there’s not a pretty woman to be see;

not one.”



one come up to they, the sight of whom counsel Lord Palmet to

reconsider his verdict. she be address by Beauchamp as Miss Denham,

and soon pass on.



Palmet be guilty of stare at she, and of linger behind the other

for a last look at she.



they be on the step of a voter’s house, calmly endure a rebuff

from he in person, when Palmet return to they, exclaim

effusively, “what luck you have, Beauchamp!” he stop till the

applicant descend the step, with the voice of the voter ring

contempt as well as refusal in their ear; then continue: “you

introduce I neck and heel to that undertakerly old Tomlinson, of

Wingham’s Institute; you might have give I a chance with that

Miss—Miss Denham, be it? she have a bit of a style!”



“she have a head,” say Beauchamp.



“a girl like that may have what she like. I don’t care what she

have—there’s woman in she. you might take she for a young sister of

Mrs. Wardour-Devereux. who’s the uncle she speak of? she ought not to

be allow to walk out by herself.”



“she can take care of herself,” say Beauchamp.



Palmet deny it. “no woman can. upon my honour, it’s a shame that she

should be out alone. what be her people? I’ll run—from you, you

know—and see her safe home. there’s such an infernal lot of fellow

about; and a girl simply bewitch and unprotected! I ought to be

after she.”



Beauchamp hold he firmly to the task of canvassing.



“then will you tell I where she live?” Palmet stipulate. he

reproach Beauchamp for a notorious Grand Turk exclusiveness and

greediness in regard to woman, as well as a disposition to run hard

race for they out of a spirit of pure rivalry.



“it’s no use contradict, it’s universally know of you,” reiterate

Palmet. “I could name a dozen woman, and dozen of fellow you

deliberately set yourself to cut out, for the honour of it. what’s that

story they tell of you in one of the american city or

watering-place, North or South? you would dance at a ball a dozen

time with a girl engage to a man—who drench you with a tumbler at

the hotel bar, and off you all march to the sand and exchange shot

from revolver; and both of you, they say, see the body of a drown

sailor in the water, in the moonlight, heave nearer and nearer, and

you stretch your man just as the body be fling up by a wave between

you. Picturesque, if you like!”



“dramatic, certainly. and I run away with the bride next morning?”



“no!” roar Palmet; “you don’t. there’s the cruelty of the whole

affair.”



Beauchamp laugh. “an old messmate of mine, Lieutenant Jack Wilmore,

can give you a different version of the story. I never have fight a

duel, and never will. here we be at the shop of a tough voter, Mr.

Oggler. so it say in my note-book. shall we put Lord Palmet to speak

to he first?”



“if his lordship will put his heart into what he say,” Mr. Oggler

bow. “be you for give the people recreation on a Sunday, my lord?”



“trap-bat and ball, cricket, dancing, military band, puppet-show,

theatre, merry-go-round, bosky dell—anything to make they happy,”

say Palmet.



“oh, dear! then I’m afraid we cannot ask you to speak to this Mr.

Carpendike.” Oggler shake his head.



“do the fellow want the people to be miserable?”



“I’m afraid, my lord, he would rather see they miserable.”



they introduce themselves to Mr. Carpendike in his shop. he be a

flat-cheste, sallow young shoemaker, with a shelving forehead, who

see three gentleman enter to he recognize at once with a practised

resignation that they have not come to order shoe-leather, though he

would fain have shoe they, be needy; but it be not the design of

Providence that they should so come as he in his blindness would have

have they. admit this he wish for nothing.



the battle with Carpendike last three-quarter of an hour, during

which he be chiefly and most effectively silent. Carpendike would not

vote for a man that propose to open museum on the Sabbath day. the

striking simile of the thin end of the wedge be recur to by he for

a damn illustration. Captain Beauchamp might be honest in put

his mind on most question in his address, when there be no demand

upon he to do it; but honesty be no antidote to impiety. thus

Carpendike.



as to Sunday museuming be an antidote to the pothouse—no. for the

people know the frequenting of the pothouse to be a vice; it be a

temptation of Satan that often in overcome they be the cause of

their fly back to grace: whereas museum and picture gallery be

insidious attraction cloak by the name of virtue, whereby they be

allure to abandon worship.



Beauchamp fly at this young monster of unreason: “but the people be

_not_ worship; they be idle and sotting, and if you carry your

despotism far still, and shut they out of every shop on Sundays, do

you suppose you promote the spirit of worship? if you don’t revolt they

you unman they, and I warn you we cann’t afford to destroy what manhood

remain to we in England. look at the fact.”



he fling the fact at Carpendike with the natural exaggeration of they

which eloquence produce, rather, as a rule, to assure itself in

passing of the overwhelming justice of the cause it plead than to

deceive the adversary. brewer’ beer and publican’ beer,

wife-beating, the home and the blood of the people, be matter

review to the confusion of Sabbatarians.



Carpendike listen with a bent head, upraised eye, and brow

wrinkling far on to his poll: a picture of a mind entrench beyond the

potentiality of mortal assault. he signify that he have speak.

indeed Beauchamp’s reply be vain to one whose argument be that he

consider the people near to holiness in the indulging of an evil

propensity than in satisfy a harmless curiosity and get a

recreation. the Sabbath claim they; if they be disobedient, sin

ultimately might scourge they back to the fold, but never if they be

permit to regard themselves as innocent in their backsliding and

rebelliousness.



such language be quite new to Beauchamp. the parson he have speak to

be of one voice in object to the pothouse. he appeal to

Carpendike’s humanity. Carpendike smite he with a text from Scripture.



“devilish cold in this shop,” mutter Palmet.



two not flourish little child of the emaciated Puritan burst into

the shop, follow by their mother, carry a child in her arm. she

have a sad look, upon trace of a past fairness, vaguely like a snow

landscape in the thaw. Palmet stoop to toss shilling with her young

one, that he might avoid the woman’s face. it cramp his heart.



“don’t you see, Mr. Carpendike,” say fat Mr. Oggler, “it’s the

happiness of the people we want; that’s what Captain Beauchamp work

for—their happiness; that’s the aim of life for all of we. look at I!

I’m as happy as the day. I pray every night, and I go to church every

Sunday, and I never know what it be to be unhappy. the Lord have bless

I with a good digestion, healthy pious child, and a prosperous shop

that’s a competency—a modest one, but I make it satisfy I, because I

know it’s the Lord’s gift. well, now, and I hate Sabbath-breaker; I

would punish they; and I’m against the public-house on a Sunday; but

aboard my little yacht, say on a Sunday morning in the Channel, I don’t

forget I owe it to the Lord that he have be good enough to put I in

the way of keep a yacht; no; I read prayer to my crew, and a

chapter in the Bible—Genesis, Deuteronomy, king, act, Paul, just as

it come. all’s good that’s there. then we’re free for the day! man,

boy, and I; we cook our victual, and we _must_ look to the yacht, do

you see. but we’ve make our peace with the Almighty. we know that. he

don’t mind the working of the vessel so long as we’ve remember he.

he put we in that situation, exactly there, latitude and longitude, do

you see, and work the vessel we must. and a glass of grog and a pipe

after dinner, cann’t be any offence. and I tell you, honestly and

sincerely, I’m sure my conscience be good, and I really and truly don’t

know what it be _not_ to know happiness.”



“then you don’t know God,” say Carpendike, like a voice from a cave.



“or nature: or the state of the world,” say Beauchamp, singularly

impress to find himself between two man, of whom—each perforce of his

tenuity and the evident leaning of his appetite—one be for the barren

black view of existence, the other for the fantastically bright. as to

the man personally, he choose Carpendike, for all his obstinacy and

sourness. Oggler’s genial piety make he shrink with nausea.



but Lord Palmet pay Mr. Oggler a memorable compliment, by assure he

that he be altogether of his way of think about happiness.



the frank young nobleman do not withhold a reference to the two or

three thing essential to his happiness; otherwise Mr. Oggler might

have be pleased and flattered.



before quit the shop, Beauchamp warn Carpendike that he should

come again. “vote or no vote, you’re worth the trial. text as many as

you like. I’ll make your faith active, if it’s alive at all. you speak

of the Lord love his own; you make out the Lord to be _your_ own, and

use your religion like a drug. so it appear to I. that Sunday tyranny

of yours have to be defend.



remember that; for I for one shall combat it and expose it. good day.”



Beauchamp continue, in the street: “tyranny like this fellow’s have

make the English the dull and wretched people in Europe.”



Palmet animadvert on Carpendike: “the dog look like a deadly fungus

that have poison the woman.”



“I’d trust he with a post of danger, though,” say Beauchamp.



before the candidate have open his mouth to the next elector he be

beam on. M’Gilliper, baker, a floured brick face, lean on fold

arm across his counter and say, in Scotch: “my vote? and he that ask

I for my vote be the man who, when he be midshipman, save the life

of a relation of mine from death by drown! my wife’s first cousin,

Johnny Brownson—and hold he up four to five minute in the water, and

never leave he till he be out of danger! there’s my hand on it, I

will, and a score of householder in Bevisham the same.” he dictate

precious name and address to Beauchamp, and be curtly thank for

his pain.



such treatment of a favourable voter seem odd to Palmet.



“oh, a vote give for reason of sentiment!” Beauchamp interject.



Palmet reflect and say: “well, perhaps that’s how it be woman don’t

care uncommonly for the man who love they, though they like precious

well to be love. opposition do it.”



“you have discover my likeness to woman,” say Beauchamp, eye he

critically, and then think, with a sudden warmth, that he have see

Renée: “look here, Palmet, you’re too late for Itchincope, to-day; come

and eat fish and meat with I at my hotel, and come to a meeting after

it. you can run by rail to Itchincope to breakfast in the morning, and

I may come with you. you’ll hear one or two man speak well to-night.”



“I suppose I shall have to be at this business myself some day,” sigh

Palmet. “any woman on the platform? oh, but political woman! and the

Tories get the pick of the woman. no, I don’t think I’ll stay. yes, I

will; I’ll go through with it. I like to be learn something. you

wouldn’t think it of I, Beauchamp, but I envy fellow at work.”



“you might make a speech for I, Palmet.”



“no man well, my dear fellow, if it be propose a toast to the

poor devil and ask they to drink it. but a dry speech, like lead

they over the desert without a well to cheer they—no oasis, as we use

to call a five-pound note and a holiday—I haven’t the heart for that.

be your Miss Denham a Radical?”



Beauchamp assert that he have not yet meet a woman at all incline in

the direction of Radicalism. “I don’t call fury Radicals. there may

be woman who think as well as feel; I don’t know they.”



“lot of they, Beauchamp. take my word for it. I do know woman. they

haven’t a shift, nor a trick, I don’t know. they’re as clear to I as

glass. I’ll wager your Miss Denham go to the meeting. now, don’t

she? of course she do. and there couldn’t be a gallanter way of

spend an evening, so I’ll try it. nothing to repent of next morning!

that’s to be say for politic, Beauchamp, and I confess I’m rather

jealous of you. a thoroughly good-look girl who take to a fellow

for what he’s do in the world, must have idea of he precious

different from the adoration of six foot three and a fine seat in the

saddle. I see that. there’s Baskelett in the blue; and if I be he I

should det my cuirass and helmet, for if he’s half as successful as

he boast—it’s the uniform.”



two notorious Radicals, Peter Molyneux and Samuel Killick, be call

on. the first see Beauchamp and refuse he; the second decline to see

he. he be amazed and stagger, but say little.



among the remainder of the elector of Bevisham, rouse that day to a

sense of their independence by the summon of the candidate, only one

man make himself conspicuous, by premise that he have two important

question to ask, and he trust Commander Beauchamp to answer they

unreservedly. they be: first, what be a french marquees? and second:

who be EURYDICEY?



Beauchamp refer he to the Tory camp, whence the placard allude to

those lady have issue.



“both of they’s lady! I guess it,” say the elector.



“do you guess that one of they be a mythological lady?”



“I’m not far wrong in guess t’other’s not much well, I reckon.

now, sir, may I ask you, be there any tale concern your moral?”



“no: you may not ask; you take a liberty.”



“then I’ll take the liberty to postpone talk about my vote. look

here, Mr. Commander; if the upper class want anything of I and come

to I for it, I’ll know what sort of an example they’re set; now

that’s I.”



“you pay attention to a stupid Tory squib?”



“where there’s smoke there’s fire, sir.”



Beauchamp glance at his note-book for the name of this man, who be a

ragman and dustman.



“my private character have nothing whatever to do with my politic,” he

say, and have barely say it when he remember having speak somewhat

differently, upon the abstract consideration of the case, to Mr.

Tomlinson.



“you’re quite welcome to examine my character for yourself, only I

don’t consent to be catechize. understand that.”



“you quite understand that, Mr. Tripehallow,” say Oggler, bolder in

take up the strange name than Beauchamp have be.



“I understand that. but you understand, there’s never be a word

against the moral of Mr. Cougham. here’s the point: do we mean to be a

moral country? very well, then so let our representative be, I say.

and if I hear nothing against your moral, Mr. Commander, I don’t say

you shalln’t have my vote. I mean to deliberate. you young nob caper

over our head—I nail you down to moral. politic secondary. adew, as

the die spirit remark to weeping friend.”



“Au revoir—would have be kind,” say Palmet.



Mr. Tripehallow smile roguishly, to betoken comprehension.



Beauchamp ask Mr. Oggler whether that fellow be to be take for a

humourist or a five-pound-note man.



“it may be both, sir. I know he’s call Morality Joseph.”



an all but acknowledge five-pound-note man be the last they visit.

he cut short the preliminary of the interview by say that he be a

four-o’clock man; i.e. the man who wait for the final bid to he

upon the closing hour of the election day.



“not one farthe!” say Beauchamp, having be warn beforehand of

the signification of the phrase by his canvass lieutenant.



“then you’re nowhere,” the honest fellow reply in the mystic tongue

of prophecy.



Palmet and Beauchamp go to their fish and meat; smoke a cigarette or

two afterward, conjure away the smell of tobacco from their person as

well as they could, and betook themselves to the assembly-room of the

liberal party, where the young lord have an opportunity of behold Mr.

Cougham, and of listen to he for an hour and forty minute. he

hear Mr. Timothy Turbot likewise. and Miss Denham be present. Lord

Palmet applaud when she smile. when she look attentive he be

deeply studious. her expression of fatigue under the sonorous ring of

statistic pour out from Cougham be translate by Palmet into yawn

and sigh of a profoundly fraternal sympathy. her face quicken on the

rise of Beauchamp to speak. she keep eye on he all the while, as

Palmet, with the skill of an adept in disguise his petty larceny of

the optic, do on she. twice or thrice she look pained: Beauchamp

be hesitate for the word. once she look startled and shut she

eye: a hiss have sound; Beauchamp spring on it as if enliven by

hostility, and dominate the factious note. thereat she turn to a

gentleman sit beside she; apparently they agree that some incident

have occur characteristic of Nevil Beauchamp; for whom, however, it

be not a brilliant evening. he be very well able to account for it,

and do so, after he have walk a few step with Miss Denham on her

homeward way.



“you hear Cougham, Palmet! he’s my senior, and I’m oblige to come

second to he, and how be I to have a chance when he have drench the

audience for close upon a couple of hour!”



Palmet mimic the manner of Cougham.



“they cry for Turbot naturally; they want a relief,” Beauchamp groan.



Palmet give an imitation of Timothy Turbot.



he be an admirable mimic, perfectly spontaneous, without stress any

point, and Beauchamp be provoke to laugh his discontentment with the

evening out of recollection.



but a grave matter troubled Palmet’s head.



“who be that fellow who walk off with Miss Denham?”



“a married man,” say Beauchamp: “badly marry; more’s the pity; he

have a wife in the madhouse. his name be Lydiard.”



“not her brother! where’s her uncle?”



“she willn’t let he come to these meeting. it’s her idea;

well-intend, but wrong, I think. she’s afraid that Dr. Shrapnel will

alarm the moderate liberal and damage Radical I.”



Palmet mutter between his tooth, “what queer thing they let their

woman do!” he felt compel to say, “Odd for she to be walk home at

night with a fellow like that.”



it chime too consonantly with a feeling of Beauchamp’s, to repress

which he reply: “your idea about woman be simply barbarous, Palmet.

why shouldn’t she? her uncle place his confidence in the man, and in

she. ben’t that well—ten time more likely to call out the sense of

honour and loyalty, than the distrust and the scandal go on in your

class?”



“please to say yours too.”



“I’ve no class. I say that the education for woman be to teach they to

rely on themselves.”



“ah! well, I don’t object, if I’m the man.”



“because you and your set be absolutely uncivilized in your view of

woman.”



“common sense, Beauchamp!”



“Prey. you eye they as prey. and it come of an idle aristocracy. you

have no faith in they, and they repay you for your suspicion.”



“all the same, Beauchamp, she ought not to be allow to go about at

night with that fellow. ‘rich and rare be the gem she wear’: but

that be in Erin’s isle, and if we know the whole history, she’d well

have stop at home. she’s marvellously pretty, to my mind. she look

a high-breed wench. Odd it be, Beauchamp, to see a lady’s-maid now and

then catch the style of my lady. no, by Jove! I’ve know one or two—you

couldn’t tell the difference! not till you be intimate. I know one

would walk a minuet with a duchess. of course—all the bad for she. if

you see that uncle of Miss Denham’s—upon my honour, I should advise

he: I mean, counsel he not to trust she with any fellow but you.”



Beauchamp ask Lord Palmet how old he be.



Palmet give his age; correct the figure from six-and-twenty to one

year more. “and never do a stroke of work in my life,” he say,

speak genially out of an acute guess at the sentiment of the man he

walk with.



it seem a farcical state of thing.



there be a kind of contrition in Palmet’s voice, and to put he at his

ease, as well as to stamp something in his own mind, Beauchamp say:

“it’s common enough.”









CHAPTER XX.

a day AT ITCHINCOPE





an election in Bevisham be always an exciting period at Itchincope,

the large and influential old estate of the Lespels, which at one time,

with but a ceremonious drive through the town, send you two good whig

man to Parliament to sit at Reform banquet; two unswerve party man,

bl subscriber to the right Review, and personally proud of its

trenchancy. Mr. Grancey Lespel be the survivor of they, and well could

he remember the happy day of his grandfather, his father, and his own

hot youth. he could be carry so far by affectionate regret as to

think of the Tories of that day benignly:—when his champion Review of

the orange and blue livery wave a wondrous sharp knife, and stick and

bleed they, prove to his party, by trenchancy alone, that the Whig be

the cause of Providence. then politic present you a table whereat

two party feast, with no fear of the intrusion of a third, and your

back be turn on the noisy low world, your ear be deaf to it.



apply we now the knocker to the door of venerable Quotation, and call

the aged creature forth, that he, half choke by his eheu—!



“a sound between a sigh and bray,”



may pronounce the familiar but respectable word, the burial-service of

a time so happy!



Mr. Grancey Lespel would still have be sit for Bevisham (or

politely at this elective moment bow to resume the seat) have not

those Manchester juggler catch up his cry, appropriate his colour,

displace and impersonate he, act beneficent Whig on a scale

approach treason to the Constitution; lean on the people in

earnest, instead of take the popular shoulder for a temporary lift,

all in high party policy, for the clever manœuvre, to oust the Tory and

sway the realm. see the consequence. for power, for no other

consideration, those manufacture rascal have raise Radicalism from

its primaeval mire—from its petty backslum bookseller’s shop and

public-house back-parlour effluvia of oratory—to issue dictate in

England, and we, England, formerly the oak, be topsy-turvy, like

onion, our heel in the air!



the language of party be eloquent, and famous for be grand at

illustration; but it be equally well know that much of it give we

humble idea of the speaker, probably because of the naughty temper

party be prone to; which, while endow it with vehemence, lessen the

stout circumferential view that should be take, at least historically.

indeed, though we admit party to be the sound method for conduct

we, party talk soon expend its attractiveness, as would a summer’s

afternoon give up to the contemplation of an encounter of ram’ head.

let we be quit of Mr. Grancey Lespel’s lamentation. the Whig gentleman

have some reason to complain. he have be train to expect no other

attack than that of his hereditary adversary-ram in front, and a sham

ram—no honest animal, but a ram engine rather—have attack he in

the rear. like Mr. Everard Romfrey and other Whigs, he be profoundly

chagrin by popular ingratitude: “not the same man,” his wife say of

he. it nip he early. he take to proverb; sure sign of the sere

leaf in a man’s mind.



his wife reproach the people for their behaviour to he bitterly. the

lady regard politic as a business that help hunting-man a stage

above sportsman, for number of the politician she be acquaint with

be hunt-man, yet something more by virtue of the variety they

could introduce into a conversation ordinarily treat of sport and

the quality of wine. her husband seem to have lose in that

parliamentary seat the talisman which give he notion distinguish

he from country squire; he have sink, and he no long care for the

month in London, nor for the speech she read to he to re-awaken his

mind and make he look out of himself, as he have do when he be a

young man and not a suspended Whig. her own favourite reading be of

love-adventure write in the french tongue. she have once be in

love, and could be so sympathetic with that passion as to avow to

Cecilia Halkett a tenderness for Nevil Beauchamp, on account of his

relation with the Marquise de Rouaillout, and notwithstanding the

demoniacal flame-halo of the Radical encircle he.



the allusion to Beauchamp occur a few hour after Cecilia’s arrival

at Itchincope.



Cecilia beg for the french lady’s name to be repeat; she have not

hear it before, and she taste the strange bitter relish of

realization when it strike her ear to confirm a story that she believe

indeed, but have not quite sensibly feel.



“and it be not over yet, they say,” Mrs. Grancey Lespel add, while

softly flip some spot of the colour proper to radical in moral

on the fame of the french lady. she possess fully the grave judicial

spirit of her countrywoman, and could sit in judgement on the

personage of tale which have entrance she, to condemn the heroine:

it be impolitic in her sex to pity female. as for the man—poor weak

thing! as for Nevil Beauchamp, in particular, his case, this

penetrate lady say, be clear: he ought to be marry. “could _you_

make a sacrifice?” she ask Cecilia playfully.



“Nevil Beauchamp and I be old friend, but we have agree that we be

deadly political enemy,” Miss Halkett reply.



“it be not so bad for a beginning,” say Mrs. Lespel.



“if one be dispose to martyrdom.”



the old woman nod. “without that.”



“my dear Mrs. Lespel, wait till you have hear he. he be at war with

everything we venerate and build on. the wife you would give he should

be a creature root in nothing—in sea-water. simply two or three

conversation with he have make I uncomfortable ever since; I can see

nothing durable; I dream of surprise, outbreak, dreadful event. at

least it be perfectly true that I do not look with the same eye on my

country. he seem to delight in destroy one’s peaceful contemplation

of life. the truth be that he blow a perpetual gale, and be all

agitation,” Cecilia conclude, affect with a smile a slight shiver.



“yes, one tire of that,” say Mrs. Lespel. “I be determined I would

have he here if we could get he to come. Grancey object. we shall

have to manage Captain Beauchamp and the rest as well. he be sure to

come late to-morrow, and will leave early on Thursday morning for his

canvass; our drive into Bevisham be for Friday or Saturday. I do not

see that he need have any suspicion. those verse you be so angry

about cannot be trace to Itchincope. my dear, they be a childish

trifle. when my husband stand first for Bevisham, the whole of his

University life appear in print. what we have to do be to forewarn

the gentleman to be guard, and especially in what they say to my

nephew Lord Palmet, for that boy cannot keep a secret; he be as open as

a plate.”



“the smoking-room at night?” Cecilia suggest, remember she

father’s word about Itchincope’s tobacco-hall.



“they have Captain Beauchamp’s address hang up there, I have hear,”

say Mrs. Lespel. “there may be other thing—another address, though it

be not yet, placard. come with I. for fifteen year I have never

once put my head into that room, and now I’ve a superstitious fear

about it.”



Mrs. Lespel lead the way to the deserted smoking-room, where the stale

reek of tobacco assail the lady, as do that dire place of Customs

the stranger visit savage (or too natural) potentate.



in silence they tear down from the wall Beauchamp’s electoral

Address—flank all its length with satirical pen and pencil comment

and sketch; and they consign to flame the vast sheet of animate

verse relate to the FRENCH marquees. a quarter-size chalk-drawing of

a slippere pantaloon have a duck on his shoulder, label to say

“quack-quack,” and offer our nauseate Dame Britannia (or else it

be the widow Bevisham) a globe of a pill to swallow, cross with the

consolatory and reassuring name of _Shrapnel_, they dispose of

likewise. and then they flee, chase forth either by the brilliancy of

the politically allusive epigram profusely inscribe around they on

the wall, or by the atmosphere. Mrs. Lespel give her order for the

wall to be scrape, and say to Cecilia: “a strange air to breathe,

be it not? the less man and woman know of one another, the happy for

they. I know my superstition be correct as a guide to I. I do so much

wish to respect man, and all my experience tell I the Turks know good

how to preserve it for we. two man in this house would give their wife

for pipe, if it come to the choice. we might all go for a cellar of

old wine. after forty, man have marry their habit, and wife be

only an item in the list, and not the most important.”



with the assistance of Mr. Stukely Culbrett, Mrs. Lespel prepare the

house and those of the company who be in the secret of affair for

the arrival of Beauchamp. the lady be curious to see he. the

gentleman, not anticipate extreme amusement, be calm: for it be an

axiom in the world of buckskin and billiard-cue, that one man be very

like another; and so true be it with they, that they can in time teach

it to the fair sex. friend of Cecil Baskelett predominate, and the

absence of so sprightly a fellow be regret seriously; but he be

shoot with his uncle at Holdesbury, and they do not expect he

before Thursday.



on Wednesday morning Lord Palmet present himself at a remarkably

well-attend breakfast-table at Itchincope. he pass from Mrs. Lespel

to Mrs. Wardour-Devsreux and Miss Halkett, bow to other lady, shake

hand with two or three man, and nod over the head of half-a-dozen,

account rather mysteriously for his delay in come, it be think,

until he sit down before a plate of Yorkshire pie, and say:



“the fact be I’ve be canvass hard. with Beauchamp!”



Astonishment and laughter surround he, and Palmet look from face

to face, equally astonish, and desirous to laugh too.



“Ernest! how could you do that?” say Mrs. Lespel; and her husband

cry in stupefaction, “with Beauchamp?”



“oh! it’s because of the radicalism,” Palmet murmur to himself. “I

don’t mind that.”



“what sort of a day do you have?” Mr. Culbrett ask he; and several

gentleman fall upon he for an account of the day.



Palmet grimace over a mouthful of his pie.



“bad!” quoth Mr. Lespel; “I know it. I know Bevisham. the only chance

there be for five thousand pound in a sack with a hole in it.”



“bad for Beauchamp? dear I, no”; Palmet correct the error. “he be

carry all before he. and he tell they,” Palmet mimic Beauchamp,

“they shall not have one penny: not a farthing. I give a couple of

young one a shilling apiece, and he row I for bribery; somehow I

do wrong.”



Lord Palmet describe the various unearthly character he have inspect

in their den: Carpendike, Tripehallow, and the radical Peter Molyneux

and Samuel Killick, and the ex-member for the borough, Cougham, pose

to suit sign-board of liberal inn, with a hand thrust in his

waistcoat, and his head well up, the eye run over the under-lid,

after the traditional style of our aristocracy; but perhaps more

closely resemble an urchin on tiptoe peer above park-paling.

Cougham’s remark to Beauchamp, hear and repeat by Palmet with the

object of give an example of the senior Liberal’s phraseology: “I be

necessitate to vacate my town mansion, to my material discomfort and

that of my wife, whose equipage I have be compel to take, by your

premature canvass of the borough, Captain Beauchamp: and now, I hear,

on undeniable authority, that no second opponent to we will be

forthcoming”—this produce the great effect on the company.



“but do you tell I,” say Mr. Lespel, when the shout of the gentleman

be subside, “do you tell I that young Beauchamp be go ahead?”



“that he be. they flock to he in the street.”



“he stand there, then, and jingle a money-bag.”



Palmet resume his mimicry of Beauchamp: “not a stiver; purity of

election be the first condition of instruction to the people!

principle! then they’ve get a capital orator: Turbot, an Irishman. I

go to a meeting last night, and hear he; never hear anything fine

in my life. you may laugh he whip I off my leg; fellow spin I

like a top; and while he be oratione, a donkey call, ‘Turbot! ain’t

you a flat fish?’ and he swing round, ‘not for a fool’s hook!’ and out

they hustle the villain for a Tory. I never see anything like it.”



“that repartee wouldn’t have do with a Dutchman or a torbay trawler,”

say Stukely Culbrett. “but let we hear more.”



“be it fair?” Miss Halkett murmur anxiously to Mrs. Lespel, who

return a flitting shrug.



“charming woman follow Beauchamp, you know,” Palmet proceed, as he

conceive, to confirm and heighten the tale of success. “there’s a Miss

Denham, niece of a doctor, a Dr.... Shot—Shrapnel! a wonderfully

good-look, clever-look girl, come across he in half-a-dozen

street to ask how he’s get on, and go every night to his

meeting, with a man who’s a writer and have a mad wife; a man name

Lydia—no, that’s a woman—Lydiard. it’s rather a jumble; but you should

see she when Beauchamp’s on his leg and speak.”



“Mr. Lydiard be in Bevisham?” Mrs. Wardour-Devereux remark.



“I know the girl,” growl Mr. Lespel. “she come with that rascally

doctor and a bobtail of tea-drink man and woman and their brat to

Northeden Heath—my ground. there they stand and sing.”



“Hymns?” inquire Mr. Culbrett.



“I don’t know what they sing. and when it rain they take the liberty

to step over my bank into my plantation. some day I shall have they

step into my house.”



“yes, it’s Mr. Lydiard; I’m sure of the man’s name,” Palmet reply to

Mrs. Wardour-Devereux.



“we meet he in Spain the year before last,” she observe to Cecilia.



the “we” remind Palmet that her husband be present.



“ah, Devereux, I don’t see you,” he nod obliquely down the table.

“by the way, what’s the grand procession? I hear my man Davis have come

all right, and I catch sight of the top of your coach-box in the

stableyard as I come in. what be we up to?”



“Baskelett write, it’s to be for to-morrow morning at ten—the start.”

Mr. Wardour-Devereux address the table generally. he be a fair,

huge, bush-bearded man, with a voice of unvarye bass: a squire in his

county, and energetic in his pursuit of the pleasure of hunting,

drive, travelling, and tobacco.



“Old Bask’s the captain of we? very well, but where do we drive the

team? how many be we? what’s in hand?”



Cecilia throw a hurried glance at her hostess.



luckily some witling say, “Fours-in-hand!” and so dryly that it pass

for humour, and give Mrs. Lespel time to interpose. “you be not to

know till to-morrow, Ernest.”



Palmet have trace the authorship of the sally to Mr. Algy Borolick, and

crown he with praise for it. he ask, “why not know till

to-morrow?” a word in a murmur from Mr. Culbrett, “don’t frighten the

woman,” satisfy he, though why it should he could not have imagine.



Mrs. Lespel quit the breakfast-table before the setting in of the

dangerous five minute of conversation over its ruin, and speak to her

husband, who contest the necessity for secresy, but yield to her

judgement when it be back by Stukely Culbrett. soon after Lord

Palmet find himself encounter by evasion and witticism, in spite

of the absence of the lady, upon every attempt he make to get some

light regard the destination of the four-in-hand next day.



“what be you go to do?” he say to Mr. Devereux, think he the

likeli one to grow confidential in private.



“smoke,” resound from the depth of that gentleman.



Palmet recollect the ground of division between the beautiful

brunette and her lord—his addiction to the pipe in perpetuity, and

deem it sweet to be with the lady.



she and Miss Halkett be walk in the garden.



Miss Halkett say to he: “how wrong of you to betray the secret of

your friend! be he really make way?”



“Beauchamp will head the poll to a certainty,” Palmet reply.



“still,” say Miss Halkett, “you should not forget that you be not in

the house of a Liberal. do you canvass in the town or the suburb?”



“everywhere. I assure you, Miss Halkett, there’s a feeling for

Beauchamp—they’re in love with he!”



“he promise they everything, I suppose?”



“not he. and the odd thing be, it ben’t the Radicals he catch. he

willn’t go against the game law for they, and he willn’t cut down army and

navy. so the Radicals yell at he. one confess he have sell his vote

for five pound last election: ‘you shall have it for the same,’ say

he, ‘for you’re all humbug.’ Beauchamp take he by the throat and

shake he—metaphorically, you know. but as for the tradesman, he’s

their hero; baker especially.”



“Mr. Austin may be right, then!” Cecilia reflect aloud.



she go to Mrs. Lespel to repeat what she have extract from Palmet,

after warn the latter not, in common loyalty, to converse about his

canvass with Beauchamp.



“do you speak of Mr. Lydiard as Captain Beauchamp’s friend?” Mrs.

Devereux inquire of he.



“Lydiard? why, he be the man who make off with that pretty Miss

Denham,” say Palmet. “I have the great trouble to remember they

all; but it be not a day waste. now I know politic. shall we ride or

walk? you will let I have the happiness? I’m so unlucky; I rarely meet

you!”



“you will bring Captain Beauchamp to I the moment he come?”



“I’ll bring he. bring he? Nevil Beauchamp willn’t want bring.”



Mrs. Devereux smile with some pleasure.



Grancey Lespel, follow at some distance by Mr. Ferbrass, the tory

lawyer, step quickly up to Palmet, and ask whether Beauchamp have

see dollikin, the brewer.



Palmet could recollect the name of one Tomlinson, and also the calling

at a brewery. moreover, Beauchamp have utter contempt of the brewer’s

business, and of the social rule to accept rich brewer for gentleman.

the man’s name might be dollikin and not Tomlinson, and if so, it be

dollikin who would not see Beauchamp. to preserve his political

importance, Palmet say, “dollikin! to be sure, that be the man.”



“treat he as he do you,” Mr. Lespel turn to Ferbrass. “I’ve send

to dollikin to come to I this morning, if he’s not drive into the

town. I’ll have he before Beauchamp see he. I’ve ask half-a-dozen

of these country gentleman-tradesman to lunch at my table to-day.”



“then, sir,” observe Ferbrass, “if they be man to be persuade, they

have well not see I.”



“true; they’re my old supporter, and mightn’t like your Tory face,”

Mr. Lespel assent.



Mr. Ferbrass congratulate he on the heartiness of his espousal of the

Tory cause.



Mr. Lespel wince a little, and tell he not to put his trust in that.



“Turned Tory?” say Palmet.



Mr. Lespel decline to answer.



Palmet say to Mrs. Devereux, “he think I’m not worth speak to upon

politic. now I’ll give he some Beauchamp; I learn lot yesterday.”



“then let it be in Captain Beauchamp’s manner,” say she softly.



Palmet obey her command with the lively exhibition of his

peculiar faculty: Cecilia, rejoin they, seem to hear Nevil himself

in his emphatic political mood. “because the whig be defunct! they

have no root in the people! Whig be the name of a tribe that be! you

have Tory, Liberal, and Radical. there be no place for Whig. he be

play out.”



“who have be put that nonsense into your head?” Mr. Lespel

retort. “go shooting, go shoot!”



shot be hear in the wood. Palmet prick up his ear; but he be

take out ride to act cavalier to Mrs. Devereux and Miss Halkett.



Cecilia correct his enthusiasm with the situation. “no flattery

to-day. there be hour when woman feel their insignificance and

helplessness. I begin to fear for Mr. Austin; and I find I can do

nothing to aid he. my hand be tie. and yet I know I could win

voter if only it be permissible for I to go and speak to they.”



“win they!” cry Palmet, imagine the alacrity of man’s vote to be

win by she. he recommend a gallop for the chasing away of melancholy,

and as they be on the Bevisham high road, which be border by

strip of turf and heath, a few good stretch bring they on the

fir-height, command view of the town and broad water.



“no, I cannot enjoy it,” Cecilia say to Mrs. Devereux; “I don’t mind

the grey light; cloud and water, and halftone of colour, be homely

english and pleasant, and that opal where the sun should be have a

suggestiveness rich than sunlight. I’m quite northern enough to

understand it; but with I it must be either peace or strife, and that

election down there destroy my chance of peace. I never could mix

reverie with excitement; the battle must be over first, and the dead

bury. can you?”



Mrs. Devereux answer: “Excitement? I be not sure that I know what it

be. an Election do not excite I.”



“there’s Nevil Beauchamp himself!” Palmet sing out, and the lady

discern Beauchamp under a fir-tree, down by the road, not alone. a

man, increase in length like a telescope gradually reach its end

for observation, and come to the height of a landmark, as if raise

by rope, be rise from the ground beside he. “shall we trot on,

Miss Halkett?”



Cecilia say, “no.”



“now I see a third fellow,” say Palmet. “it’s the other fellow, the

Denham-Shrapnel-radical meeting... Lydiard’s his name: write book!”



“we may as well ride on,” Mrs. Devereux remark, and her horse fret

singularly.



Beauchamp perceive they, and lift his hat. Palmet make

demonstration for the lady. still neither party move nearer.



after some waiting, Cecilia propose to turn back.



Mrs. Devereux look into her eye. “I’ll take the lead,” she say, and

start forward, pursue by Palmet. Cecilia follow at a sullen

canter.



before they come up to Beauchamp, the long-shank man have stalk away

townward. Lydiard hold Beauchamp by the hand. some last word, after

the manner of instruction, pass between they, and then Lydiard also

turn away.



“I say, Beauchamp, Mrs. Devereux want to hear who that man be,” Palmet

say, draw up.



“that man be Dr. Shrapnel,” say Beauchamp, convince that Cecilia have

check her horse at the sight of the doctor.



“Dr. Shrapnel,” Palmet inform Mrs. Devereux.



she look at he to seek his wit, and return Beauchamp’s admire

salutation with a little bow and smile, say, “I fancy it be a

gentleman we meet in Spain.”



“he write book,” observe Palmet, to jog a slow intelligence.



“Pamphlets, you mean.”



“I think he be not a pamphleteer”, Mrs. Devereux say.



“Mr. Lydiard, then, of course; how silly I be! how can you pardon I!”

Beauchamp be contrite; he could not explain that a long guess he have

make at Miss Halkett’s reluctance to come up to he when Dr. Shrapnel

be with he have preoccupy his mind. he send off Palmet the bearer of

a pretext for bring Lydiard back, and then say to Cecilia, “you

recognize Dr. Shrapnel?”



“I think it might be Dr. Shrapnel”, she be candid enough to reply.

“I could not well recognize he, not know he.”



“here come Mr. Lydiard; and let I assure you, if I may take the

liberty of introduce he, he be no true Radical. he be a

philosopher—one of the flirt, the butterfly of politic, as Dr.

Shrapnel call they.”



Beauchamp hum over some improvized trifle to Lydiard, then

introduce he cursorily, and all walk in the direction of

Itchincope. it be really the Mr. Lydiard Mrs. Devereux have meet in

Spain, so they be leave in the rear to discuss their travel. much

conversation do not go on in front. Cecilia be very reserved.

by-and-by she say, “I be glad you have come into the country early

to-day.”



he speak rapturously of the fresh air, and not too mildly of his

pleasure in meet she. quite off her guard, she begin to hope he be

get to be one of they again, until she hear he tell Lord Palmet

that he have come early out of Bevisham for the walk with Dr. Shrapnel,

and to call on certain rich tradesman live near Itchincope. he

mention the name of dollikin.



“dollikin?” Palmet consult a perturbed recollection. among the

entangled list of new name he have gather recently from the study of

politic, dollikin rang in his head. he shout, “yes, dollikin! to

be sure. Lespel have he to lunch to-day;—calls he a

gentleman-tradesman; odd fish! and tell a fellow call—where be it

now?—a name like brass or copper... Copperstone? brasspot?... tell he

he’d do well to keep his Tory cheek out of sight. it’s the name of

those fellow bother one so! all the rest’s easy.”



“you be evidently in a state of confusion, Lord Palmet,” say Cecilia.



the tone of rebuke and admonishment be unperceive. “not about the

fact,” he rejoin. “I’m for fair play all round; no trickery. I tell

Beauchamp all I know, just as I tell you this morning, Miss Halkett.

what I don’t like be Lespel turn Tory.”



Cecilia put a stop to his indiscretion by halt for Mrs. Devereux,

and say to Beauchamp, “if your friend would return to Bevisham by

rail, this be the near point to the station.”



Palmet, well-natured of man, though generally prompt by some of his

peculiar motive, dismount from his horse, leave he to Beauchamp,

that he might conduct Mr. Lydiard to the station, and perhaps hear a

word of Miss Denham: at any rate be able to form a guess as to the

secret of that art of his, which have in the space of an hour restore a

happy and luminous vivacity to the languid Mrs. Wardour-Devereux.









CHAPTER XXI.

the question as to the examination of the whigs, and the fine blow

strike by MR. EVERARD ROMFREY





Itchincope be famous for its hospitality. yet Beauchamp, when in the

presence of his hostess, could see that he be both unexpected and

unwelcome. Mrs. Lespel be unable to conceal it; she look meaningly

at Cecilia, talk of the house be very full, and her husband

engage till late in the afternoon. and Captain Baskelett have arrive

on a sudden, she say. and the luncheon-table in the dining-room could

not possibly hold more.



“we three will sit in the library, anywhere,” say Cecilia.



so they sit and lunch in the library, where Mrs. Devereux serve

unconsciously for an excellent ally to Cecilia in chat to

Beauchamp, principally of the writing of Mr. Lydiard.



have the blind of the window be draw down and candle light,

Beauchamp would have be well content to remain with these two

lady, and forget the outer world; sweet society could not have be

offer he: but glance carelessly on to the lawn, he exclaim in

some wonderment that the man he particularly wish to see be there.

“it must be dollikin, the brewer. I’ve have he point out to I in

Bevisham, and I never can light on he at his brewery.”



no excuse for detain the impetuous candidate strike Cecilia. she

betook herself to Mrs. Lespel, to give and receive counsel in the

emergency, while Beauchamp strike across the lawn to Mr. Dollikins, who

have the squire of Itchincope on the other side of he.



late in the afternoon a report reach the lady of a furious contest

go on over dollikin. Mr. Algy Borolick be the first to give they

intelligence of it, and he declare that Beauchamp have wrest

dollikin from Grancey Lespel. this be contradict subsequently by

Mr. Stukely Culbrett. “but there’s heavy pulling between they,” he

say.



“it will do all the good in the world to Grancey,” say Mrs. Lespel.



she sit in her little blue-room, with gentleman congregate at the

open window.



presently Grancey Lespel round a projection of the house where the

drawing-room stand out: “the mad folly ever talk!” he deliver

himself in wrath. “the whig dead? you may as well say I’m dead.”



it be beauchamp answer: “politically, you’re dead, if you call

yourself a Whig. you couldn’t be a live one, for the party’s in piece,

blow to the wind. the country be once a chess-board for Whig and

Tory: but that game’s at an end. there’s no doubt on earth that the

whig be dead.”



“but if there’s no doubt about it, how be it I have a doubt about it?”



“you know you’re a tory. you try to get that man dollikin from I in

the Tory interest.”



“I mean to keep he out of radical clutch. now that’s the truth.”



they come up to the group by the open window, still converse hotly,

indifferent to listener.



“you willn’t keep he from I; I have he,” say Beauchamp.



“you delude yourself; I have his promise, his pledge word,” say

Grancey Lespel.



“the man himself tell you his opinion of renegade whig.”



“Renegade!”



“Renegade Whig be an actionable phrase,” Mr. Culbrett observe.



he be unnoticed.



“if you don’t like ‘renegade,’ take ‘dead,’” say Beauchamp. “Dead Whig

resurgent in the Tory. you be dead.”



“it’s the stupid conceit of your party think that.”



“_dead_, my dear Mr. Lespel. I’ll say for the Whigs, they would not be

see tout for Tories if they be not ghost of whig. you be dead.

there be no doubt of it.”



“but,” Grancey Lespel repeat, “if there’s no doubt about it, how be

it I have a doubt about it?”



“the Whigs preach finality in Reform. it be their own funeral

sermon.”



“nonsensical talk!”



“I don’t dispute your liberty of action to go over to the Tories, but

you have no right to attempt to take an honest Liberal with you. and

that I’ve stop.”



“Aha! Beauchamp; the man’s mine. come, you’ll own he swear he wouldn’t

vote for a Shrapnelite.”



“don’t you remember?—that’s how the Tories use to fight _you;_ they

stick an epithet to you, and hoot to set the mob an example; you hit

they off to the life,” say Beauchamp, brighten with the fine ire of

strife, and affect a sad indignation. “you trade on the

ignorance of a man prejudice by lie report of one of the noble of

human creature.”



“Shrapnel? there! I’ve have enough.” Grancey Lespel bounce away with

both hand outspread on the level of his ear.



“dead!” Beauchamp send the ghastly accusation after he.



Grancey face round and say, “Bo!” which be applaud for a smart

retort. and let none of we be so exalted above the wit of daily life as

to sneer at it. Mrs. Lespel remark to Mr. Culbrett, “do you not see

how much he be refresh by the interest he take in this election? he

be ten year young.”



Beauchamp bent to she, say mock-dolefully, “I’m sorry to tell you

that if ever he be a sincere Whig, he have year of remorse before

he.”



“promise I, Captain Beauchamp,” she answer, “promise you will give

we no more politic to-day.”



“if none provoke I.”



“none shall.”



“and as to Bevisham,” say Mr. Culbrett, “it’s the identical borough

for a radical candidate, for every voter there demand a division of

his property, and he should be the last to complain of an adoption of

his principle.”



“Clever,” rejoin Beauchamp; “but I be under government”; and he sweep

a bow to Mrs. Lespel.



as they be break up the group, Captain Baskelett appear.



“ah! Nevil,” say he, pass he, salute Miss Halkett through the

window, then cordially squeeze his cousin’s hand. “have a holiday

out of Bevisham? the baron expect to meet you at Mount Laurels

to-morrow. he particularly wish I to ask you whether you think all

be fair in war.”



“I don’t,” say Nevil.



“not? the canvass go on swimmingly?”



“ask Palmet.”



“Palmet give you two-third of the borough. the poor old Tory tortoise

be nowhere. they’ve be write about you, Nevil.”



“they have. and if there’s a man of honour in the party I shall hold

he responsible for it.”



“I allude to an article in the Bevisham Liberal paper; a magnificent

eulogy, upon my honour. I give you my word, I have rarely read an

article so eloquent. and what be the conservative misdemeanour which

the man of honour in the party be to pay for?”



“I’ll talk to you about it by-and-by,” say Nevil.



he seem to Cecilia too trust, too simple, consider his cousin’s

undisguise tone of banter. yet she could not put he on his guard. she

would have have Mr. Culbrett do so. she walk on the terrace with he

near upon sunset, and say, “the position Captain Beauchamp be in here

be most unfair to he.”



“there’s nothing unfair in the lion’s den,” say Stukely Culbrett;

add, “now, observe, Miss Halkett; he talk for effect. he discover

that Lespel be a Torified Whig; but that do not make he a bit more

alert. it’s to say smart thing. he speak, but willn’t act, as if he

be among enemy. he’s get too fond of his bow-wow. here he be,

and he know the den, and he choose to act the innocent. you see how

ridiculous? that trick of the ingenu, or peculiarly heavenly messenger,

who pretend that he ought never to have any harm do to he, though

he carry the lighted match, be the way of young Radicals. otherwise

Beauchamp would be a dear boy. we shall see how he take his

thrashing.”



“you feel sure he will be beat?”



“he have too strong a dose of fool’s honesty to succeed—stand for the

game law with Radicals, for example. he’s load with scruple and

crotchet, and think more of they than of his wind and his tide. no

public man be to be make out of that. his idea of the whig be dead

show a head that cann’t read the country. he mean himself for mankind,

and be prepare to be the benefactor of a country parish.”



“but as a naval officer?”



“Excellent.”



Cecilia be convince that Mr. Culbrett underestimate Beauchamp.

nevertheless the confidence express in Beauchamp’s defeat reassure

and please she. at midnight she be dance with he in the midst of

great matronly country vessel that raise a wind when they launch on

the waltz, and exact an anxious pilotage on the part of gentleman

careful of their partner; and why I cannot say, but contrast produce

quaint idea in excited spirit, and a dancing politician appear to

she so absurd that at one moment she have to bite her lip not to laugh.

it will hardly be credit that the waltz with Nevil be delightful to

Cecilia all the while, and dance with other a penance. he dance

with none other. he lead she to a three o’clock morning supper: one of

those triumphant subversion of the law and custom of earth which

have the charm of a form of present deification for all young people;

and she, while note how the poor man’s advocate deal with costly

pasty and sparkle wine, be overjoy at his hearty comrade’s

manner with the gentleman, and a leadership in fun that he seem to

have establish. Cecil Baskelett acknowledge it, and compliment he

on it. “I give you my word, Nevil, I never hear you in fine trim.

here’s to our drive into Bevisham to-morrow! do you drink it? I beg; I

entreat.”



“oh, certainly,” say Nevil.



“will you take a whip down there?”



“if you’re all insure.”



“on my honour, old Nevil, drive a four-in-hand be easy than

govern the country.”



“I’ll accept your authority for what you know well,” say Nevil.



the toast of the Drive into Bevisham be drunk.



Cecilia leave the supper-table, mortify, and feeling disgrace by her

participation in a secret that be be wantonly abuse to humiliate

Nevil, as she be make to think by her sensitiveness. all the gentleman

be against he, except perhaps that chatter pie Lord Palmet,

who do he more mischief than his enemy. she could not sleep. she

walk out on the terrace with Mrs. Wardour-Devereux, in a dream,

hear that lady breathe remark hardly less than sentimental, and an

unwearied succession of shout from the smoking-room.



“they be not go to bed to-night,” say Mrs. Devereux.



“they be mystify Captain Beauchamp,” say Cecilia.



“my husband tell I they be go to drive he into the town

to-morrow.”



Cecilia flush: she could scarcely get her breath.



“be that their plot?” she murmur.



Sleep be reject by she, bed itself. the drive into Bevisham have be

fix for nine A.M. she write two line on note-paper in her room: but

find they overfervid and mysterious. besides, how be they to be

convey to Nevil’s chamber.



she walk in the passage for half an hour, think it possible she

might meet he; not the most lady-like of proceeding, but her head be

bewilder. an arm-chair in her room invite she to rest and think—the

mask of a natural desire for sleep. at eight in the morning she be

awaken by she maid, and at a touch exclaim, “have they go?” and

her heart still throb after hear that most of the gentleman be

in and about the stable. Cecilia be down-stair at a quarter to nine.

the breakfast-room be empty of all but Lord Palmet and Mr.

Wardour-Devereux; one select a cigar to light out of door, the

other debating between two pipe. she beckon to Palmet, and

commission he to inform Beauchamp that she wish he to drive she

down to Bevisham in her pony-carriage. Palmet bring back word from

Beauchamp that he have an appointment at ten o’clock in the town. “I

want to see he,” she say; so Palmet run out with the order. Cecilia

meet Beauchamp in the entrance-hall.



“you must not go,” she say bluntly.



“I cann’t break an appointment,” say he—“for the sake of my own

pleasure,” be imply.



“will you not listen to I, Nevil, when I say you cannot go?”



a coachman’s trumpet blow.



“I shall be late. that’s Colonel Millington’s team. he start first,

then wardour-Devereux, then Cecil, and I mount beside he; Palmet’s at

our heel.”



“but cann’t you even imagine a purpose for their driving into Bevisham

so pompously?”



“well, man with drag haven’t commonly much purpose,” he say.



“but on this occasion! at an Election time! surely, Nevil, you can

guess at a reason.”



a second trumpet blow very martially. footman come in search of Captain

Beauchamp. the alternative of break she pledge word to her father,

or of let Nevil be burlesque in the sight of the town, could no

long be dally with.



Cecilia say, “well, Nevil, then you shall hear it.”



Hereupon Captain Baskelett’s groom inform Captain Beauchamp that he

be off.



“yes,” Nevil say to Cecilia, “tell I on board the yacht.”



“Nevil, you will be drive into the town with the second tory

candidate of the borough.”



“which? who?” Nevil ask.



“your cousin Cecil.”



“tell Captain Baskelett that I don’t drive down till an hour later,”

Nevil say to the groom. “Cecilia, you’re my friend; I wish you be

more. I wish we don’t differ. I shall hope to change you—make you come

half-way out of that citadel of your. this be my uncle Everard! I

might have make sure there’d be a blow from he! and Cecil! of all man

for a politician! Cecilia, think of it! cecil Baskelett! I beg Seymour

Austin’s pardon for having suspect he...”



now sound Captain Baskelett’s trumpet.



angry though he be, Beauchamp laugh. “ben’t it exactly like the

baron to spring a mine of this kind?”



there be decidedly humour in the plot, and it be a lusty quarterstaff

blow into the bargain. beauchamp’s head ring with it. he could not

conceal the stunning effect it have on he. gratitude and tenderness

toward Cecilia for save he, at the cost of a partial breach of faith

that he quite understand, from the scandal of the public entry into

Bevisham on the Tory coach-box, alternate with his interjection

regard his uncle Everard.



at eleven, Cecilia sit in her pony-carriage give final direction to

Mrs. Devereux where to look out for the _Esperanza_ and the schooner’s

boat. “then I drive down alone,” Mrs. Devereux say.



the gentleman be all off, and every available maid with they on the

coach-box, a brilliant sight that have be miss by nevil and

Cecilia.



“why, here’s Lydiard!” say Nevil, suppose that Lydiard must be

approach he with tiding of the second Tory candidate. but Lydiard

know nothing of it. he be the bearer of a letter on foreign

paper—mark urgent, in Rosamund’s hand—and similarly word in the

well-know hand which have inscribe the original address of the letter

to Steynham.



Beauchamp open it and read:



Château Tourdestelle

“(Eure).



“come. I give you three day—no more.



“RENÉE.”



the brevity be horrible. do it spring from childish imperiousness or

tragic peril?



Beauchamp could imagine it to be this or that. in moment of excited

speculation we do not dwell on the possibility that there may be a

mixture of motive.



“I fear I must cross over to France this evening,” he say to Cecilia.



she reply, “it be likely to be stormy to-night. the steamboat may not

run.”



“if there’s a doubt of it, I shall find a french lugger. you be tired,

from not sleep last night.”



“no,” she answer, and nod to Mrs. Devereux, beside whom Mr.

Lydiard stand: “you will not drive down alone, you see.”



for a young lady threaten with a tempest in her heart, as disturb

to she as the one gathering in the West for ship at sea, Miss Halkett

bear herself well.









CHAPTER XXII.

the drive into bevisham





Beauchamp be request by Cecilia to hold the rein. his fair

companion in the pony-carriage prefer to lean back musing, and he

have leisure to think over the blow deal he by his uncle Everard with

so sure an aim so ringingly on the head. and in the first place he make

no attempt to disdain it because it be nothing but artful and

heavy-handed, after the mediaeval pattern. of old he himself have

delight in artfulness as well as boldness and the unmistakeable hit.

highly to prize generalship be in his blood, though latterly the very

force propel he to his political warfare have forbid the use of

it to he. he see the patient veteran lay his gun for a long shot—to

give as good as he have receive; and in realize Everard Romfrey’s

perfectly placid bearing under provocation, such as he certainly would

have maintain while prepare his reply to it, the raw fighting

humour of the plot touch the sense of justice in Beauchamp enough to

make he own that he have be the first to offend.



he could reflect also on the likelihood that other offended man of his

uncle’s age and position would have sulk or storm, threaten the

parthian shot of the vindictive testator. if there be godlessness in

turn to politic for a weapon to strike a domestic blow, manfulness

in some degree signalize it. beauchamp could fancy his uncle cry

out, who set the example? and he be not at that instant incline to

dwell on the occult virtue of the example he have set. to be honest,

this elevation of a political puppet like Cecil Baskelett, and the

start he, out of the same family which Turbot, the journalist, have

magnify, into Bevisham with such pomp and flourish in opposition to

the serious young champion of popular right and the Puritan style, be

ludicrously effective. Conscienceless of course. but that be the way

of the Old School.



Beauchamp break the silence by thank Cecilia once more for save

he from the absurd exhibition of the radical candidate on the Tory

coach-box, and laugh at the grimmish slyness of his uncle Everard’s

conspiracy a something in it that be half-smile half-sneer; not

exactly malignant, and by no mean innocent; something make up of the

simplicity of a light match, and its proximity to powder, yet neither

deadly, in spite of a wicked twinkle, nor at all pretend to be

harmless: in short, a speciman of old english practical humour.



he labour to express these or corresponding view of it, with

tolerably natural laughter, and Cecilia rally her spirit at his

pleasant manner of take his blow.



“I shall compliment the baron when I meet he tonight,” he say. “what

can we compare he to?”



she suggest the Commander of the Faithful, the Lord Haroun, who

likewise have a turn for buffoonery to serve a purpose, and could

direct they loftily and sovereignty.



“no: Everard Romfrey’s a northerner from the foot up,” say Beauchamp.



Cecilia compliantly offer he a sketch of the scandinavian Troll:

much nearer the mark, he think, and exclaim: “Baron Troll! I’m

afraid, Cecilia, you have rob he of the good part of his fun. and

you will owe it entirely to he if you should be represent in

Parliament by my cousin Baskelett.”



“promise I, Nevil, that you will, when you meet Captain Baskelett, not

forget I do you some service, and that I wish, I shall be so glad if

you do not resent certain thing.... very objectionable, we all think.”



he release she from the embarrassing petition: “oh! now I know my man,

you may be sure I willn’t waste a word on he. the fact be, he would not

understand a word, and would require more—and that I don’t do. when I

fancy Mr. Austin be the responsible person, I mean to speak to

he.”



Cecilia smile gratefully.



the sweetness of a love-speech would not have be sweet to she than

this proof of civilized chivalry in Nevil.



they come to the fir-height overlook Bevisham. here the breezy

beginning of a south-western autumnal gale toss the pony’ mane and

make thread of Cecilia’s short lock of beautiful auburn by the

temple and the neck, bluster the curl that stream in a thick

involution from the silken band gather they off her uncovered

clear-sweep ear.



Beauchamp take an impression of her side face. it seem to offer he

everything the world could offer of cultivate purity, intelligent

beauty and attractiveness; and “Wilt thou?” say the wing minute.

Peace, a good repute in the mouth of man, home, and a trustworthy

woman for mate, an ideal english lady, the rare growth of our

country, and friend and fair esteem, be offer. last night he have

waltz with she, and the manner of this tall graceful girl in

submit to the union of the measure and reserve her individual

distinction, have exquisitely flatter his taste, give he an

auspicious image of she in partnership, through the use of life.



he look ahead at the low dead-blue cloud swinge from across

channel. what could be the riddle of Renée’s letter! it chain he

completely.



“at all event, I shall not be away long than three day,” he say;

paused, eyed Cecilia’s profile, and add, “do we differ so much?”



“it may not be so much as we think,” say she.



“but if we do!”



“then, Nevil, there be a difference between we.”



“but if we keep our lip close?”



“we should have to shut our eye as well!”



a lovely melt image of she stole over he; all the warm for her

unwittingness in produce it: and it awaken a tenderness toward the

simple speaker.



Cecilia’s delicate breeding save she from run on figuratively. she

continue: “intellectual difference do not cause wound, except when

very unintellectual sentiment be behind them:—my conceit, or your

impatience, Nevil? ‘_Noi veggiam come quei, che ha mala luce._’... I

can confess my sight to be imperfect: but will you ever do so?”



her musical voice in Italian charm his hearing.



“what poet be that you quote?”



“the wise: Dante.”



“Dr. Shrapnel’s favourite! I must try to read he.”



“he read Dante?” Cecilia throw a stress on the august name; and it be

manifest that she care not for the answer.



contemptuous exclusiveness could not go far.



“he be a man of cultivation,” Beauchamp say cursorily, try to avoid

dissension, but in vain. “I wish I be half as well instruct, and

the world half as charitable as he!—You ask I if I shall admit my

sight to be imperfect. yes; when you prove to I that priest and

landlord be willing to do their duty by the people in preference to

their church and their property: but will you ever shake off

prejudice?”



here be opposition sound again. Cecilia mentally reproach Dr.

Shrapnel for it.



“indeed, Nevil, really, must not—may I not ask you this?—must not every

one feel the evil spell of some association? and Dante and Dr.

Shrapnel!”



“you don’t know he, Cecilia.”



“I see he yesterday.”



“you think he too tall?”



“I think of his character.”



“how angry I should be with you if you be not so beautiful!”



“I be immensely indebted to my unconscious advocate.”



“you be clothe in steel; you flash back; you willn’t answer I out of the

heart. I’m convince it be pure wilfulness that make you oppose I.”



“I fancy you must be convince because you cannot imagine woman to have

any share of public spirit, Nevil.”



a grain of truth in that remark set Nevil reflect.



“I want they to have it,” he remark, and glance at a Tory placard,

probably the puppet’s fresh-print address to the elector, on one of

the wayside fir-tree. “Bevisham look well from here. we might make a

north-western Venice of it, if we like.”



“Papa tell you it would be money sink in mud.”



“do I mention it to him?—Thoroughly Conservative!—So he would leave

the mud as it be. they insist on our not venture anything—those

Tories! exactly as though we have gain the good of human condition,

instead of count crop of rogue, malefactor, egoist, noxious and

lumbersome creature that deaden the country. your town down there be

one of the ugly and dirty in the kingdom: it might be the

fairest.”



“I have often think that of Bevisham, Nevil.”



he draw a visionary sketch of quay, embankment, bridged island,

public building, magical emanation of patriotic architecture, with a

practical air, an absence of that enthusiasm which strike she with

suspicion when it be not apply to landscape or the Arts; and she

accept it, and warm, and even allow herself to appear hesitate

when he return to the similarity of the state of mud-begirt Bevisham

and our great sluggish England.



be he not perhaps to be pity in his bondage to the Frenchwoman, who

could have no idea in common with he?



the rare circumstance that she and Nevil Beauchamp have find a subject

of agreement, partially overcome the sentiment Cecilia entertain for

the foreign lady; and have now one idea in common with he, she

conceive the possibility that there might be more. there must be many,

for he love England, and she no less. she clung, however, to the topic

of Bevisham, prefer to dream of the many more, rather than run

risk. undoubtedly the town be of an ignoble aspect; and it be

decline in prosperity; and it be consequently over-populate. and

undoubtedly (so she be induce to coincide for the moment) a

Government, act to any extent like a supervise head, should aid

and direct the energy of town and port and trade, and not leave

everything everywhere to chance: school for the people, public

morality, should be the charge of Government. Cecilia have surrender

the lead to he, and be force to subscribe to an equivalent of

“undoubtedly” the Tories just as little as the Liberals have do these

good office. party against party, neither of they have a forethoughtful

head for the land at large. they wait for the Press to spur a great

imperial country to be but defensively armed, and they accept the

so-call volunteer, with a nominal one-month’s drill per annum, as a

guarantee of defence!



Beauchamp startle she, actually kindle her mind to an activity of

wonder and regret, with the statement of how much Government, act

with some degree of farsightedness, _might_ have win to pay the public

debt and remit taxation, by originally retain the line of railway,

and fasten on the valuable land adjoining station. hundred of

million of pound!



she drop a sigh at the prodigious amount, but inquire, “who have

calculate it?”



for though perfectly aware that this kind of conversation be a special

compliment pay to she by her friend Nevil, and dimly perceive that

it imply something beyond a compliment—in fact, that it be his

manner of probe she for sympathy, as other man would have conduct

the process preliminary to deadly flattery or to wooing, her wit

fence her heart about; the exercise of shrewdness be an instinct of

self-preservation. she have nothing but her poor wit, daily grow

fainter, to resist he with. and he seem to know it, and therefore

assail they, never try at the heart.



that vast army of figure might be but a phantom army conjure out of

the radical mist, might it not? she hint. and besides, we cannot

surely require a Government to speculate in the future, can we?



possibly not, as government go, Beauchamp say.



but what think you of a Government of landowner decree the

enclosure of million of acre of common land amongst themselves;

take the property of the people to add to their own! Say, be not that

plunder? public property, observe; decreed to they by their own

law-making, under the pretence that it be be reclaim for

cultivation, when in reality it have be but an addition to their

pleasure-ground: a flat robbery of pasture from the poor man’s cow and

goose, and his right of cut furze for fire. consider that!

Beauchamp’s eye flash democratic in recite this injury to the

object of his warm solicitude—the man, the cow, and the goose. but so

must he have look when front England’s enemy, and his aspect of

fervour subdue Cecilia. she confess her inability to form an

estimate of such conduct.



“be they do it still?” she ask.



“we owe it to Dr. Shrapnel foremost that there be now a watch over they

to stop they. but for he, Grancey Lespel would have enclose half of

Northeden Heath. as it be, he have filch bit here and there, and he

will have to put back his paling.”



however, now let Cecilia understand that we English, call ourselves

free, be under morally lawless rule. _government_ be what we require,

and our mean of get it must be through universal suffrage. at

present we have no government; only shift Party Ministries, which

be the tool of diver interest, wealthy faction, to the sacrifice

of the Commonwealth.



she listen, like Rosamund Culling overbear by Dr. Shrapnel, inwardly

pray that she might discover a man to reply to he.



“a Despotism, Nevil?”



he hope not, decline the despot, be English enough to stand against

the good of man in that character; but he cast it on Tory, Whig, and

Liberal, otherwise the Constitutionalists, if we be to come upon the

despot.



“they see we be close on universal suffrage; they’ve be bid each

in turn for ‘the people,’ and that have bring they to it, and now

they’re alarmed, and accuse one another of treason to the Constitution,

and they don’t accept the situation: and there’s a fear, that to carry

on their present system, they will be thwart the people or

corrupt they: and in that case we shall have our despot in some

shape or other, and we shall suffer.”



“Nevil,” say Cecilia, “I be out of my depth.”



“I’ll support you; I can swim for two,” say he.



“you be very self-confident, but I find I be not fit for battle; at

least not in the front rank.”



“nerve I, then: will you? try to comprehend once for all what the

battle be.”



“I be afraid I be too indifferent; I be too luxurious. that remind I:

you want to meet your uncle Everard and if you will sleep at Mount

Laurels to-night, the _Esperanza_ shall take you to France to-morrow

morning, and can wait to bring you back.”



as she speak she perceive a flush mount over Nevil’s face. soon it

be communicate to hers.



the strange secret of the blood electrify they both, and reveal the

burn undercurrent run between they from the heart of each. the

light that show how near they be to one another be kindle at the

barrier divide they. it remain as good as a secret, unchallenged

until they have separate, and after midnight Cecilia look through her

chamber window at the drive moon of a hurricane scud, and read

clearly his honourable reluctance to be waft over to his french love

by her assistance; and Beauchamp on board the tossing steamboat

perceive in her sympathetic reddening that she have divine he.



this auroral light eclipse the other event of the day. he drive into

a town royally decorate, and still hum with the ravishment of the

Tory entrance. he sail in the schooner to Mount Laurels, in the

society of Captain Baskelett and his friend, who, find he tame

than they expect, banter he in the cheerfullest fashion. he wait

for his uncle Everard several hour at Mount Laurels, peruse the

junior Tory’s address to the Electors, throughout which there be not

an idea—safe of address to canvass upon! peruse likewise, at

Captain Baskelett’s request, a broad sheet of an article introduce

the new candidate to Bevisham with the battle-axe Romfreys to back he,

in high burlesque of Timothy Turbot upon Beauchamp: and Cecil hope his

cousin would not object to his borrow a Romfrey or two for so

press an occasion. all very funny, and no doubt the presence of Mr.

Everard Romfrey would have heighten the fun from the fountain-head;

but he happen to be delay, and Beauchamp have to leave direction

behind he in the town, besides the discussion of a whole plan of

conduct with Dr. Shrapnel, so he be under the necessity of depart

without see his uncle, really to his regret. he leave word to that

effect.



take leave of Cecilia, he talk of his return “home” within three or

four day as a certainty.



she say: “canvass should not be neglect now.”



her hostility be confuse by what she have do to save he from

annoyance, while his behaviour to his cousin Cecil increase she

respect for he. she detect a pathetic meaning in his mention of the

word home; she muse on his having call she beautiful: whither be

she hurry? forgetful of her horror of his revolutionary idea,

forgetful of the elevation of her own, she thrill secretly on hear

it state by the jubilant young Tories at Mount Laurels, as a

characteristic of Beauchamp, that he be clever in parry political

thrust, and slip from the theme; he who with she give out

unguardedly the thought deepest in he. and the thoughts!—were they

not of generous origin? where so true a helpmate for he as the one to

whom his mind appeal? it could not be so with the Frenchwoman.

Cecilia divine a generous nature by generosity, and set herself to

believe that in honour he have not yet dare to speak to she from the

heart, not be at heart quite free. she be at the same time in she

remain of pride cool enough to examine and rebuke the weakness she

succumb to in now cling to he by that which yesterday she hardly

less than loathe, still deeply dislike.









CHAPTER XXIII.

TOURDESTELLE





on the part of Beauchamp, his conversation with Cecilia during the

drive into Bevisham open out for the first time in his life a

prospect of home; he have feel the word in speak it, and it signify

an end to the distraction produce by the sex, allegiance to one

beloved respected woman, and also a basis of operation against the

world. for she be evidently conquerable, and once match with he

would be the very woman to nerve and sustain he. do she not listen to

he? he like her resistance. that element of the barbarous which go

largely to form his emotional nature be overjoy in wrest such a

woman from the enemy, and subdue she personally. she be a prize. she

be a splendid prize, cut out from under the gun of the fort. he

render all that be due to his eminently good cause for its part in

so signal a success, but individual satisfaction be not diminish by

the thought that the individual’s discernment select the cause thus

beneficent to he.



Beauchamp’s meditation be divert by the sight of the coast of

France dash in rain-line across a weed-strew sea. the “three day”

grant he by Renée be over, and it scarcely trouble he that he

should be behind the time; he detest mystery, hold it to be a sign

of pretentious feebleness, often of imposture, it might be frivolity.

punctilious obedience to the mysterious brevity of the summon, and not

to chafe at it, appear to he as much as could be expect of a

struggle man. this be the state of the case with he, until he stand

on french earth, breathe french air, and chance to hear the tongue of

France twitter by a lady on the quay. the charm be instantaneous. he

remind himself that Renée, unlike her countrywoman, have no gift for

writing letter. they have never correspond since the hour of her

marriage. they have meet in Sicily, at Syracuse, in the presence of her

father and her husband, and so inanimate be she that the meeting

seem like the conclusion of their history. her brother Roland send

tiding of she by fit, and sometimes a conventional message from

Tourdestelle. latterly her husband’s name have be cite as among the

wildfire of parisian quay, in journal more or less devoted to those

unreclaimed space of the city. well, if she be unhappy, be it not

the fulfilment of his prophecy in Venice?



Renée’s brevity become luminous. she need he urgently, and know

he faithful to the death, she, because she know he, dispatch purely

the word which say she need he. why, those brief word be the

poetry of noble confidence! but what could her distress be? the lover

be able to read that, “come; I give you three day,” address to he,

be not language of a woman free of her yoke.



excited to guess and guess, Beauchamp sweep on to speculation of a

madness that seize he bodily at last. be you love, Cecilia? he

think little of politic in relation to Renée; or of home, or of

honour in the world’s eye, or of labour to pay the fee for his share

of life. this at least be one of the form of love which precipitate

man: the sole thought in he be to be with she. she be Renée, the

girl of whom he have prophetically say that she must come to regret

and tear. his vision of she be not at Tourdestelle, though he assume

she to be there await he: she be under the sea-shadow Alps,

look up to the red and gold-rose height of a realm of morning that

be hers inviolably, and under which Renée be eternally his.



the interval between then and now be but the space of an unquiet sea

traverse in the night, sad in the passage of it, but featureless—and

it have prove he right! it be to Nevil Beauchamp as if the spirit of

his old passion wake up again to glorious hopeful morning when he stand

in Renée’s France.



Tourdestelle enjoy the aristocratic privilege of be twelve mile

from the near railway station. alight here on an evening of clear

sky, Beauchamp find an english groom ready to dismount for he and

bring on his portmanteau. the man say that his mistress have be twice

to the station, and be now at the neighbour Château Dianet. Thither

Beauchamp betake himself on horseback. he be inform at the gate

that Madame la Marquise have leave for Tourdestelle in the saddle only

ten minute previously. the lodge-keeper have be instruct to invite

he to stay at Château Dianet in the event of his arrive late, but it

would be possible to overtake madame by a cut across the height at a

turn of the valley. Beauchamp push along the valley for this visible

projection; a tower mass of woodland, in the midst of which a narrow

roadway, wear like the track of a torrent with heavy rain, wound

upward. on his descent to the farth side, he be to spy directly

below in the flat for Tourdestelle. he cross the woode neck above

the valley, and begin descend, peer into gulfs of the twilight

dusk. some pace down he be aid by a brilliant half-moon that

divide the whole underlie country into sharp outline of dark and

fair, and while endeavour to distinguish the château of Tourdestelle

his eye be attract to an angle of the downward zigzag, where a

pair of horse emerge into broad light swiftly; apparently the rider

be dispute, or one have overtake the other in pursuit. riding-habit

and plume hat signalize the sex of one. Beauchamp sing out a

gondolier’s cry. he fancy it be answer.



he be hear, for the lady turn about, and as he ride down, still

uncertain of she, she come canter up alone, and there could be no

uncertainty.



Moonlight be friendless to eye that would make sure of a face long

unseen. it be Renée whose hand he clasp, but the story of the year

on she, and whether she be in bloom, or wan as the beam reveal

she, he could not see.



her tongue sound to he as if it be loosen without a voice. “you

have come. that storm! you be safe!”



so phantom-like a sound of speech alarm he. “I lose no time. but

you?”



“I be well.”



“nothing hang over you?”



“nothing.”



“why give I just three day?”



“pure impatience. have you forget I?”



their horse walk on with they. they unlock their hand.



“you know it be I?” say he.



“who else could it be? I hear Venice,” she reply.



her previous cavalier be on his foot, all but on his knee, it

appear, search for something that elude he under the road-side

bank. he spring at it and wave it, leapt in the saddle, and remark,

as he draw up beside Renée: “what one pick from the earth one may

wear, I presume, especially when we can protest it be our property.”



Beauchamp see he plant a white substance most carefully at the

breast buttonhole of his coat. it could hardly be a flower. some

droop exotic of the conservatory perhaps resemble it.



Renée pronounce his name: “M. le Comte Henri d’Henriel.”



he bow to Beauchamp with an extreme sweep of the hat.



“last night, M. Beauchamp, we put up vow for you to the Marine God,

beseech an exemption from that horrible mal de mer. thank to the

storm, I suppose, I have win. I must maintain, madame, that I win.”



“you wear your trophy,” say Renée, and her horse rear and dart

ahead.



the gentleman on each side of she strike into a trot. Beauchamp glance

at M. d’Henriel’s breast-decoration. Renée press the pace, and

thread dense cover of foliage they reach the level of the valley,

where for a couple of mile she lead they, stretch away merrily, now

in shadow, now in moonlight, between high land and meadow land, and a

line of poplar in the meadow wind with the river that feed the vale

and shoot forth gleam of silvery disquiet by rustic bridge and mill.



the strangeness of be beside she, not having yet scan her face,

marvel at her voice—that be like and unlike the Renée of old, full

of she, but in another key, a mellow note, maturer—make the ride

magical to Beauchamp, plant the past in the present like a

perceptible ghost.



Renée slacken speed, say: “Tourdestelle span a branch of our

little river. this be our gate. have it be daylight I would have take

you by another way, and you would have see the black tower burn in

the Revolution; an impose monument, I be assure. however, you will

think it pretty beside the stream. do you come with we, M. le Comte?”



his answer be inaudible to Beauchamp; he do not quit they.



the lamp at the lodge-gate present the young man’s face in full

view, and Beauchamp think he supremely handsome. he perceive it to

be a lady’s glove that M. d’Henriel wear at his breast.



Renée walk her horse up the park-drive, alongside the bright run

water. it seem that she be aware of the method of provoke or

reprove M. d’Henriel. he endure some minute of total speechlessness

at this pace, and abruptly say adieu and turn back.



Renée bound like a vessel free of her load. “but why should we

hurry?” say she, and check she course to the walk again. “I hope you

like our Normandy, and my valley. you use to love France, Nevil; and

Normandy, they tell I, be cousin to the opposite coast of England, in

climate, soil, people, it may be in manner too. a Beauchamp never can

feel that he be a foreigner in Normandy. we claim you half french. you

have grander park, they say. we can give you sunlight.”



“and it be really only the wish to see I?” say Beauchamp.



“only, and really. one do not live for ever—on earth; and it become

a question whether friend should be shadow to one another before

death. I write to you because I wish to see you: I be impatient

because I be Renée.”



“you relieve I!”



“evidently you have forget my character, Nevil.”



“not a feature of it.”



“ah!” she breathe involuntarily.



“would you have I forget it?”



“when I think by myself, quite alone, yes, I would. otherwise how can

one hope that one’s friend be friendship, suppose he to read we as

we be—minutely, accurately? and it be in absence that we desire our

friend to be friendship itself. and... and I be utterly astray! I have

not deal in this language since I last think of write a diary, and

stare at the first line. if I mistake not, you be fond of the

picturesque. if moonlight and water will satisfy you, look yonder.”



the moon launch her fairy silver fleet on a double sweep of the

little river round an island of reed and two tall poplar.



“I have wonder whether I should ever see you look at that scene,”

say Renée.



he look from it to she, and ask if Roland be well, and her father;

then allude to her husband; but the unlettering elusive moon, bright

only in the extension of her beam, would not tell he what story this

face, once heaven to he, wear imprinted on it. her smile upon a part

mouth strike he as two-edge in reply: “I have good news to give

you of they all: Roland be in garrison at Rouen, and will come when I

telegraph. my father be in Touraine, and greet you affectionately; he

hope to come. they be both perfectly happy. my husband be

travel.”



Beauchamp be conscious of some bitter taste; unaware of what it be,

though it lead he to say, undesigningly: “how very handsome that M.

d’Henriel is!—if I have his name correctly.”



Renée answer: “he have the misfortune to be consider the handsome

young man in France.”



“he have an italian look.”



“his mother be Provençale.”



she put her horse in motion, say: “I agree with you that handsome

man be rarity. and, by the way, they do not set _our_ world on fire

quite as much as beautiful woman do your, my friend. acknowledge so

much in our favour.”



he assent indefinitely. he could have wish himself away canvass

in Bevisham. he have only to imagine himself away from she, to feel the

flood of joy in be with she.



“your husband be travel?”



“it be his pleasure.”



could she have intend to say that this be good news to give of he

as well as of the happiness of her father and brother?



“now look on Tourdestelle,” say Renée. “you will avow that for an

active man to be condemn to seek repose in so dull a place, after the

fatigue of the season in Paris, it be considerably bad than for

woman, so I be here to dispense the hospitality. the right wing of

the château, on your left, be new. the side abut the river be

inhabit by Dame Philiberte, whom her husband imprison for

attempt to take her pleasure in travel. I hear upon authority that

she dress in white, and wear a black crucifix. she be many century

old, and still she live to remind people that she marry a

rouaillout. do you not think she should have come to I to welcome I?

she never have; and possibly of lady who be disembody we may say

that they know well. for I, I desire the interview—and I be a coward:

I need not state it.” she cease; presently continue: “the other

inhabitant be my sister, Agnès d’Auffray, wife of a general officer

serve in Afric—my sister by marriage, and my friend; the baronne

d’Orbec, a relation by marriage; M. d’Orbec, her son, a guest, and a

sportsman; M. Livret, an erudite. no young lady: I can bear much, but

not their presence; girl be odious to I. I know one in Venice.”



they come within the ray of the lamp hang above the unpretende

entrance to the château. Renée’s broad grey Longueville hat curve low

with its black plume on the side farth from he. he be favour by

the gallant lift of the brim on the near side, but she have overshadow

her eye.



“he wear a glove at his breast,” say Beauchamp.



“you speak of M. d’Henriel. he wear a glove at his breast; yes, it be

mine,” say Renée.



she slip from her horse and stand against his shoulder, as if

wait to be question before she ring the bell of the château.



Beauchamp alight, burn with his unutterable question concern

that glove.



“lift your hat, let I beg you; let I see you,” he say.



this be not what she have expect. with one heave of her bosom, and

murmur: “I make a vow I would obey you absolutely if you come,” she

raise the hat above her brow, and lightning would not have surprise

he more; for there have not be a single vibration of her voice to

tell he of tear run: nay, the absence of the usual french

formality in her manner of address he, have seem to he to

indicate her intention to put he at once on an easy friendly footing,

such as would be natural to she, and not painful to he. now she say:



“you perceive, monsieur, that I have my sentimental fit like other;

but in truth I be not insensible to the picturesque or to gratitude,

and I thank you sincerely for come, consider that I write like a

Sphinx—to evade write _comme une folle!_”



she sweep to the bell.



stand in the arch of the entrance, she stretch her whip out to a

black mass of prostrate timber, say:



“it fall in the storm at two o’clock after midnight, and you on the

sea!”









CHAPTER XXIV.

his holiday





a single day be to be the term of his holiday at Tourdestelle; but it

stand forth as one of those perfect day which be round by an

evening before and a morning after, give he two night under the

same roof with Renée, something of a resemblance to three day of she;

anticipation and wonder fill the first, she the next, the adieu the

last: every hour fill. and the first day be not over yet. he force

himself to calmness, that he might not fritter it, and walk up and

down the room he be dress in, examine its foreign decoration,

and peer through the window, to quiet his nerve. he be in her own

France with she! the country borrow hue from Renée, and lend some.

this chivalrous France frame and interlace her image, aid in

idealize she, and be in turn transfigure. not half so well would

his native land have plead for the forgiveness of a british damsel

who have wreck a young man’s immoderate first love. that glorify

self-love require the touch upon imagination of strangeness and an

unaccustomed grace, to subdue it and make it pardon an outrage to its

temple and altar, and its happy reading of the heaven, the earth

too: earth foremost, we ought perhaps to say. it be an exact

heathen, well understand by a glance at what will appease it:

beautiful, however, as everybody have prove; and shall it be decry in

a world where beauty be not overcommon, though it would slaughter we

for its angry satisfaction, yet can be soothe by a tone of colour, as

it be by a novel inscription on a sweetmeat?



the peculiarity of Beauchamp be that he know the slenderness of the

thread which be lead he, and foresaw it twist to a coil unless

he should hold firm. his work in life be much above the love of a

woman in his estimation, so he be not delude by passion when he

enter the château; it be doubtful whether he would not hesitatingly

have sacrifice one of the precious vote in Bevisham for the pleasure

of kiss her hand when they be on the step. she be his first love

and only love, marry, and long ago forgiven:—married; that be to say,

she especially among woman be interdict to he by the linger

shadow of the reverential love go by; and if the anguish of the

lover’s bad than death survive in a shudder of memory at the thought

of she not solely lose to he but possess by another, it do but

quicken a hunger that be three part curiosity to see how she who have

suffer this bore the change; how like or unlike she might be to the

extinct Renée; what trace she keep of the face he have know. her tear

be startling, but tear tell of a mood, they do not tell the story of

the year; and it be that story he have such eagerness to read in one

brief revelation: an eagerness bear only of the last few hour, and

break by fear of a tarnish aspect; these again be partly hope

of a come disillusion that would restore he his independence and ask

he only for pity. the slavery of the love of a woman chain like

Renée be the most revolting of prospect to a man who cherish his

freedom that he might work to the end of his time. moreover, it swing a

thunder-cloud across his holiday. he recur to the idea of the

holiday repeatedly, and the more he do so the thin it wane. he be

exhaust the very air and spirit of it with a mind that run

incessantly forward and back; and when he and the lady of so much

speculation be again together, an incapacity of observation seem to

have come over he. in reality it be the inability to reflect on his

observation. her presence resemble those dark sunset throw the

spell of colour across the world; when there be no question with we of

morning or of night, but of that sole splendour only.



owe to their arrival late at the château, cover be lay for they

in the boudoir of Madame la Marquise, where he have his hostess to

himself, and certainly the opportunity of study she. an English Navy

List, solitary on a shelf, and lay within it an extract of a paper

announce the return of the _Ariadne_ to port, explain the mystery

of she know that he be in England, as well as the correctness of

the superscription of her letter to he. “you see, I follow you,” she

say.



Beauchamp ask if she read English now.



“a little; but the paper be dispatch to I by M. Vivian Ducie, of

your embassy in Paris. he be in the valley.”



the name of Ducie recall Lord Palmet’s description of the dark beauty

of the flutter pale gold ornament. she be now dress without one

decoration of gold or jewel, with scarcely a wave in the silk, a

modesty of style eloquent of the pride of her form.



could those eye front he under the lamp have recently shed tear?

they be the live eye of a brilliant unembarrassed lady; shield

fling light rather than well-depth invite it.



Beauchamp try to compare she with the Renée of Venice, and find

himself think of the glove she have surrender to the handsome

young man in France. the effort to recover the young face give he a

dead creature, with the eyelash of Renée, the cast of her mouth and

throat, misty as a shape in a dream.



he could compare she with Cecilia, who never would have risk a glove,

never have betray a tear, and be the stately lady, not without

language: but how much less vivid in feature and the gift of speech!

Renée’s gift of speech count unnumbered string which she play on

with a grace that clothe the skill, and be her natural endowment—an

art perfect by the education of the world. who cannot talk!—but who

can? discover the writer in a day when all be write! it be as rare

an art as poetry, and in the mouth of woman as enrapture, rich

than their voice in music.



this be the fascination Beauchamp feel weave round he. would you,

that be separable from boy and mob, and the object malignly call

the Briton, prefer the celestial singing of a woman to she excellently

talk? but not if it be give you to run in unison with her genius

of the tongue, follow her verbal ingenuity and feminine

silk-flash of meaning; not if she lead you to match her fine quick

perception with more or less of the discreet concordance of the

violoncello accompany the viol. it be not high flying, which usually

end in heavy falling. you quit the level of earth no more than two

bird that chase from bush to bush to bill in air, for mutual delight

to make the concert heavenly. language flow from Renée in affinity

with the pleasure-give law that make the curve we recognize as

beauty in sublimer art. accept companionship for the dearest of the

good thing we pray to have, and what equal she! who could be her

rival!



her girl’s crown of irradiate Alps begin to tremble over her dimly, as

from moment to moment their intimacy warm, and Beauchamp see the

young face vanish out of this flower of womanhood. he do not see it

appear or present, but vanish like the faint ray in the rosier.

Nay, the blot of her faithlessness undergo a transformation: it

affect he somewhat as the patch cunningly lay on near a liquid

dimple in fair cheek at once allure and evade a susceptible

attention.



unused in his French of late, he stumble at time, and she supply

the need phrase, take no note of a blunder. now man of sweet blood

cannot be secretly accuse or criticize a gracious lady. domestic

man be charge with thinking instantly of dark death when an ordinary

illness befall they; and it may be so or not: but it be positive that

the gallant man of the world, if he be in the sensitive condition, and

not yet establish as the lord of she, feel paralyze in his

masculine sense of leadership the moment his lady assume the

initiative and direct he: he give up at once; and thus have many

nimble-witte dame from one clear start retain their advantage.



concern that glove: well! the handsome young man in France wear

the glove of the lovely woman. the lovely? the very lovely in

the purity of her french style—the woman to challenge England for a

type of beauty to eclipse she. it be possible to conceive her country

wager she against all woman.



if Renée have fault, Beauchamp think of she as at sea breasting

tempest, while Cecilia be a vessel lie safe in harbour, untried,

however promise: and if Cecilia raise a steady light for he, it be

over the shore he have leave behind, while Renée have really nothing to

do with warning or rescue, or with imperilling; she welcome he

simply to a holiday in her society. he associate Cecilia strangely

with the political labour she would have have he relinquish; and Renée

with a pleasant state of indolence, that her light smile disturb.

Shun comparison.



it be the tricksy heart which set up that balance, to jump into it on

one side or the other. comparison come of a secret lean that be

sure to play rogue under its mien of honest dealer: so Beauchamp

suffer himself to be unjust to graver England, and lose the strength

she would have give he to resist a bewitchment. the case with he

be, that his apprenticeship be new; he have be trot in harness

as a veritable cab-horse of politic—he by blood a racer; and his

nature crave for diversion, against his will, against his moral sense

and bear tenacity of spirit.



not a word far of the glove. but at night, in his bed, the glove

be a principal actor in event of extraordinary magnitude and

inconsequence.



he be out in the ground with the early morning light. coffee and

sweet french bread be bring out to he, and he be inform of the

hour of reunion at the château, whose mistress continue invisible.

she might be sleep. he stroll about, within view of the window,

wonder at her subservience to sleep. Tourdestelle lie in one of

those Norman valley where the river be the mother of rich pasture, and

run hide between double rank of sallow, aspen and poplar, that

mark its wind line in the arm of trench meadow. the high land on

either side be an unwatered flat up to the horizon, little varied by

dusty apple-tree plant in the stubble here and there, and brown mud

wall of hamlet; a church-top, a copse, an avenue of dwarf lime

lead to the three-part farm, quarter residence of an enrich

peasant strike new root, or decay proprietor pinch not to be

sever from ancient. descend on the deep green valley in Summer be

like a change of clime. the château stand square at a branch of the

river, toss three light bridge of pretty woodwork to park and

garden. great bouquet of swell blue and pink hydrangia nestle at

his foot on shaven grass. an open window show a cloth of colour, as

in a reminiscence of Italy.



Beauchamp hear himself addressed:—“You be look for my

sister-in-law, M. Beauchamp?”



the speaker be Madame d’Auffray, to whom he have be introduce

overnight—a lady of the aquiline french outline, not ungentle.



Renée have speak affectionately of she, he remember. there be

nothing to make he be on his guard, and he state that he be look

for Madame de Rouaillout, and do not conceal surprise at the

information that she be out on horseback.



“she be a tireless person,” Madame d’Auffray remark. “you will not

miss she long. we all meet at twelve, as you know.”



“I grudge an hour, for I go to-morrow,” say Beauchamp.



the notification of so early a departure, or else his bluntness,

astonish she. she fall to praise Renée’s goodness. he keep she to

it with lively interrogation, in the manner of a guileless boy urge

for eulogy of his dear absent friend. be it duplicity in he or

artlessness?



“have she, do you think, increase in beauty?” Madame d’Auffray

inquire: an insidious question, to which he reply:



“once I think it would be impossible.”



not so bad an answer for an Englishman, in a country where speak be

fencing; the race be little famous for dialectical alertness: but

be it artful or simple?



they skirt the château, and Beauchamp have the history of Dame

Philiberte recount to he, with a mixture of Gallic irony, innuendo,

openness, touchingness, ridicule, and charity novel to his ear. Madame

d’Auffray strike the note of intimacy early than be habitual. she

sound he in this way once or twice, carelessly peruse he, and

wait for the interesting edition of the Book of Man to summarize its

character by show its page or remain shut. it be do

delicately, like the tap of a finger-nail on a vase. he ring clear; he

have nothing to conceal; and where he be reserve, that is, in speak

of the develop beauty and grace of Renée, he be transparent. she

read the sort of man he be; she could also hazard a guess as to the

man’s present state. she venture to think he comparatively

harmless—for the hour: for she be not the woman to be hoodwink by

man’s dark nature because she incline to think well of a particular

man; nor be she one to trust to any man subject to temptation. the

wisdom of the Frenchwoman’s fortieth year forbid it. a land where the

war between the sex be honestly acknowledge, and be full of

instruction, abound in precept; but it ill become the veteran to

practise rigorously what she would prescribe to young woman. she may

discriminate; as thus:—Trust no man. still, this man may be well than

that man; and it be bad policy to distrust a reasonably guileless

member of the preying sex entirely, and so to lose his good service.

hawk have their use in destroy vermin; and though we cannot rely

upon the taming of hawk, one tie by the leg in a garden preserve the

fruit.



“there be a necessity for your leave we to-morrow; M. Beauchamp?”



“I regret to say, it be imperative, madame.”



“my husband will congratulate I on the pleasure I have, and have long

desire, of make your acquaintance, and he will grieve that he have

not be so fortunate; he be on service in Africa. my brother, I need

not say, will deplore the mischance which have prevent he from

welcome you. I have telegraph to he; he be at one of the Baths in

Germany, and will come assuredly, if there be a prospect of find you

here. none? suppose my telegram not to fall short of he, I may count

on his being here within four day.”



Beauchamp beg she to convey the proper expression of his regret to

M. le Marquis.



“and M. de Croisnel? and Roland, your old comrade and brother-in-arm?

what will be their disappointment!” she say.



“I intend to stop for an hour at Rouen on my way back,” say Beauchamp.



she ask if her belle-soeur be aware of the short limitation of his

visit.



he have not mention it to Madame la Marquise.



“perhaps you may be move by the grief of a friend: Renée may persuade

you to stay.”



“I came imagine I could be of some use to Madame la Marquise. she

write as if she be telegraph.”



“perfectly true of she! for that matter, I see the letter. your look

betray a very natural jealousy; but see it or not it would have be

the same: she and I have no secret. she be, I may tell you, strictly

unable to write more word in the letter. which bring I to inquire

what impression M. d’Henriel make on you yesterday evening.”



“he be particularly handsome.”



“we woman think so. do you take he to be... eccentric?”



Beauchamp give a french jerk of the shoulder.



it confess the incident of the glove to one who know it as well as

he: but it mask the weight he be begin to attach to that

incident, and Madame d’Auffray be mislead. truly, the Englishman may be

just such an ex-lover, uninflammable by virtue of his blood’s native

coldness; endue with the frozen vanity call pride, which do not

seek to be revenge. under wary espionage, he might be a young woman’s

friend, though male friend of a half-abandon wife should write

himself down morally saint, mentally sage, medically incurable, if he

would win our confidence.



this lady of sharp intelligence be the guardian of Renée during the

foolish husband’s flight about Paris and over Europe, and, for a proof

of her consummate astuteness, Renée have no secret and have absolute

liberty. and hitherto no man could build a boast on her reputation. the

liberty she would have have at any cost, as Madame d’Auffray know; and

an attempt to restrict it would have create secret.



near upon the breakfast-hour Renée be perceive by they go toward

the château at a walking pace. they cross one of the garden bridge

to intercept she. she start out of some deep meditation, and raise

her whip hand to Beauchamp’s greeting. “I have forget to tell you,

monsieur, that I should be out for some hour in the morning.”



“be you aware,” say Madame d’Auffray, “that M. Beauchamp leave we

to-morrow?”



“so soon?” it be utter hardly with a tone of disappointment.



the marquise alight, cry hold, to the stable, caress her horse,

and send he off with a smack on the smoking flank to meet the groom.



“to-morrow? that be very soon; but M. Beauchamp be engage in an

Election, and what have we to induce he to stay?”



“would it not be well to tell M. Beauchamp why he be invite to

come?” rejoin Madame d’Auffray.



the sombre light in Renée’s eye quicken through shadowy sphere of

surprise and pain to resolution. she cry, “you have my full consent,”

and leave they.



Madame d’Auffray smile at Beauchamp, to excuse the childishness of the

little story she be about to relate; she give it in the essence,

without a commencement or an ending. she have in fact but two or three

hurry minute before the breakfast-bell would ring; and the fan she

open and shut, and at time shade her head with, be nearly as

explicit as her tongue.



he understand that Renée have stake her glove on his come within a

certain number of hour to the brief wording of invitation possible.

owe to his detention by the storm, M. d’Henriel have win the bet, and

now insist on wear the glove. “he be the privileged young madman

our woman make of a handsome youth,” say Madame d’Auffray.



where be I? think Beauchamp—in what land, he would have phrase it,

of whirlwind catch the wit, and whip the passion? Calmer than

they, but unable to command they, and guess that Renée’s errand of

the morning, by which he have lose hour of she, pertain to the glove,

he say quiveringly, “Madame la Marquise object?”



“we,” reply Madame d’Auffray, “contend that the glove be not loyally

win. the wager be upon your come to the invitation, not upon your

conquer the element. as to his flaunt the glove for a favour, I

would ask you, whom do he advertize by that? glove do not wear

white; which fact compromise none but the wearer. he pick it up from

the ground, and do not restore it; that be all. you see a boy who

catch at anything to placard himself. there be a compatriot of your,

a M. Ducie, who assure we you must be with an uncle in your county of

Sussex. of course we run the risk of the letter miss you, but the

chance be worth a glove. can you believe it, M. Beauchamp? it be I,

old woman as I be, I who provoke the silly wager. I have long desire

to meet you; and we have little society here, we be desperate with

loneliness, half mad with our whim. I say, that if you be what I

have hear of you, you would come to we at a word. they dare Madame la

Marquise to say the same. I wish to see the friend of Frenchmen, as

M. Roland call you; not merely to see he—to know he, whether he be

this perfect friend whose absolute devotion have impress my dear

sister Renée’s mind. she respect you: that be a sentiment scarcely

complimentary to the idea of young man. she place you above human

creature: possibly you may not dislike to be worship. it be not to

be reject when one’s influence be powerful for good. but you leave we

to-morrow!”



“I might stay...” Beauchamp hesitate to name the number of hour. he

stand divide between a sense of the bubble shallowness of the life

about he, and a thought, grave as an eye dwelling on blood, of

sinister thing below it.



“I may stay another day or two,” he say, “if I can be of any earthly

service.”



Madame d’Auffray bow as to a friendly decision on his part, say,

“it would be a thousand pity to disappoint M. Roland; and it will be

offer my brother an amicable chance. I will send he word that you

await he; at least, that you defer your departure as long as possible.

ah! now you perceive, M. Beauchamp, now you have become aware of our

purely infantile plan to bring you over to we, how very ostensible a

punishment it would be be you to remain so short a period.”



have no design, he be neither dupe nor sceptic; but he feel oddly

entangle, and the dream of his holiday have flee like morning’s beam,

as a self-deception will at a very gentle shake.









CHAPTER XXV.

the adventure of the BOAT





Madame d’Auffray pass Renée, whisper on her way to take her seat

at the breakfast-table.



Renée do not condescend to whisper. “Roland will be glad,” she say

aloud.



her low eyelid challenge Beauchamp for a look of indifference. there

be more for she to unbosom than Madame d’Auffray have reveal, but the

comparative innocence of her position in this new light prompt she to

meet he defiantly, if he choose to feel injured. he be attract by a

happy contrast of colour between her dress and complexion, together

with a cavalierly charm in the sullen brow she lift; and see the

reverse of a look of indifference on his face, after what he have hear

of her frivolousness, she have a fear that it exist.



“be we not to have M. d’Henriel to-day? he amuse I,” the baronne

d’Orbec remark.



“if he would learn that he be fashion for that purpose!” exclaim

little M. Livret.



“do not ask young man for too much head, my friend; he would cease to

be amusing.”



“D’Henriel should have be up in the field at ten this morning,” say

M. d’Orbec. “as to his head, I back he for a clever shot.”



“or a duelling-sword,” say Renée. “it be a quality, count it for what

we will. your favourite, Madame la Baronne, be interdict from

present himself here so long as he persist in offend I.”



she be request to explain, and, with the fair ingenuousness which

outshine innocence, she touch on the story of the glove.



ah! what a delicate, what an exciting, how subtle a question!



have M. d’Henriel the right to possess it? and, have that, have he the

right to wear it at his breast?



Beauchamp be drag into the discussion of the case.



Renée wait curiously for his judgement.



plead an apology for the stormy weather, which have detain he, and

for his ignorance that so precious an article be at stake, he hold,

that by the term of the wager, the glove be lose; the claim to wear

it be a matter of taste.



“matter of taste, monsieur, be not, I think, decide by weapon in

your country?” say M. d’Orbec.



“we have no duelling,” say Beauchamp.



the Frenchman imagine the confession to be somewhat humbling, and

generously add, “but you have your volunteer—a magnificent spectacle

of patriotism and national readiness for defence!”



a shrewd pang traverse Beauchamp’s heart, as he look back on his

country from the outside and the inside, think what amount of

patriotic readiness the character of the volunteering signify, in the

face of all that England have to maintain. like a politic islander, he

allow the patriotic spectacle to be imagine; reflect that it do

a sort of service abroad, and have only to be unmasked at home.



“but you surrender the glove, marquise!” the baronne d’Orbec speak

judicially.



“I fling it to the ground: that make it neutral,” say Renée.



“Hum. he wear it with the dust on it, certainly.”



“and for how long a time,” M. Livret wish to know, “do this amusing

young man proclaim his intention of wear the glove?”



“until he can see with we that his order of Merit be utter kid,” say

Madame d’Auffray; and as she have speak more or less neatly,

satisfaction be leave reside in the ear of the assembly, and the

glove be permit to be sweep away on a fresh tide of dialogue.



the admirable candour of Renée in publicly allude to M. d’Henriel’s

foolishness restore a peep of his holiday to Beauchamp. Madame

d’Auffray take note of the effect it produce, and quite excuse her

sister-in-law for intend to produce it; but that speak out the

half-truth that we may put on the mask of the whole, be no new trick;

and believe as she do that Renée be in danger with the handsome

Count Henri, the practice of such a kind of honesty on her part

appear alarming.



still it be imprudent to press for confidence when our friend’s heart

be manifestly trifle with sincerity. who know but that some foregone

reckless act or word may have superinduce the healthy shame which

cannot speak, which must disguise itself, and be honesty in that form,

but roughly troubled would resolve to rank dishonesty? so think the

patient lady, wise in that than in her perception.



Renée make a boast of not persuade her guest to stay, avow that

she would not willingly have he go. praise he equably, she listen

to praise of he with animation. she be dumb and statue-like when

Count Henri’s name be mention. do not this betray like for one,

subjection to the other? indeed, there be an asiatic splendour of

animal beauty about M. d’Henriel that would be serpent with most woman,

Madame d’Auffray conceive; why not with the deserted Renée, who adore

beauty of shape and colour, and be compassionate toward a rashness of

character that her own unnatural solitariness and quick spirit make she

emulous of?



Meanwhile Beauchamp’s day of adieu succeed that of his holiday, and

no adieu be utter. the hour at Tourdestelle have a singular turn for

slip. interlinked and all as one they swam by, bring evening,

bring morning, never varied. they might have vary with such a

division as when flame light up the night or a tempest shade the day,

have Renée choose; she have that power over he. she have no wish to use

it; perhaps she apprehend what it would cause she to forfeit. she

wish he to respect she; feel that she be under the shadow of the

glove, slight though it be while it be nothing but a tale of a lady

and a glove; and her desire, like his, be that they should meet daily

and dream on, without a variation. he notice how seldom she lead he

beyond the ground of the château. they be to make excursion when

her brother come, she say. Roland de Croisnel’s colonel, Coïn de

Grandchamp, happen to be engage in a duel, which great business

detain Roland. it supply Beauchamp with an excuse for stay, that

he be angry with himself for be pleased to have; so he attack the

practice of duelling, and next the shrug, wherewith M. Livret and M.

d’Orbec seek at first to defend the foul custom, or apologize for it,

or plead for it philosophically, or altogether cast it off their

shoulder; for the literal interpretation of the shrug in argument be

beyond human capacity; it be the point of speech beyond our treasury of

language. he attack the shrug, as he think, very temperately; but

in control his native vehemence he grow, perforce of repression,

and of incompetency to deliver himself copiously in French, sarcastic.

in fine, his contrast of the pretence of their noble country to head

civilization, and its encouragement of a custom so barbarous, offended

M. d’Orbec and irritated M. Livret.



the latter deliver a brief essay on Gallic blood; the former

maintain that Frenchmen be the good judge of their own way and

deed. politeness reign, but politeness be compel to throw off

cloak and jacket when it step into the arena to meet the encounter of

a bull. beauchamp draw on their word “solidaire” to assist he in

declare that no civilized nation could be thus independent. imagine

himself in the France of brave idea, he contrive to strike out spark

of Legitimist ire around he, and find himself breathe the

atmosphere of the most primitive nursery of Toryism. again he

encounter the shrug, and he would have it a verbal matter. M. d’Orbec

gravely recite the programme of the country party in France. M. Livret

carry the war across Channel. you English have retire from active

life, like the exhausted author, to turn critic—the critic that sneer:

unless we copy you abjectly we be execrable. and what be that sneer?

materially it be an acrid saliva, wither where it drop; in the way

of fellowship it be a corpse-emanation. as to wit, the sneer be the

cloak of clumsiness; it be the Pharisee’s incense, the hypocrite’s

pity, the post of exaltation of the fat citizen, etc.; but, say M.

Livret, the people use it should have a care that they keep powerful:

they make no friend. he terminate with this warning to a nation not

devoid of superior merit. M. d’Orbec say less, and be less console

by his outburst.



in the opinion of Mr. Vivian Ducie, present at the discussion,

Beauchamp provoke the lash; for, in the first place, a beautiful

woman’s apparent favourite should be particularly discreet in all that

he say: and next, he should have know that the Gallic shrug over

matter political be volcanic—it be the heaving of the mountain, and,

like the proverbial Russ, leap up tartarly at a scratch. our

newspaper also have be flea-bite M. Livret and his countryman of

late; and, to conclude, over in old England you may fly out against

what you will, and there be little beyond a motherly smile, a nurse’s

rebuke, or a fool’s rudeness to answer you. in quick-blooded France you

have whip for whip, sneer, sarcasm, claw, fang, tussle, in a trice; and

if you choose to comport yourself accord to your insular notion of

freedom, you be bind to march out to the measured ground at an

invitation. to begin by say that your principle be oppose to it,

naturally excite a malicious propensity to try your temper.



a further cause, unknown to Mr. Ducie, of M. Livret’s irritation be,

that Beauchamp have vex he on a subject peculiarly dear to he. the

celebrate Château Dianet be about to be visit by the guest at

Tourdestelle. in common with some french philosopher and english

matron, he cherish a sentimental sad enthusiasm for royal

concubine; and when dilate upon one among they, the ruin of whose

family’s castle stand in the neighbourhood-Agrees, who be really a

kindly soul, though not virtuous—M. Livret have be traverse by

Beauchamp with question as to the condition of the people, the

peasantry, that be sweat in taxis to support these lovely

frailty. they come oddly from a man in the fire of youth, and a

little old gentleman somewhat seduce by the melt image of his theme

might well blink at he to ask, of what flesh be you, then? his

historic harem be insult. personally too, the fair creature

picturesquely soil, intrepid in her amorousness, and ultimately

absolve by repentance (a shudder narrative of her sin under

shower of salt drop), cry to he to champion she. excite by the

suppose cold critical mind in Beauchamp, M. Livret paint and paint

this lady, trick she in casuistical nicety, scene of pomp and

boudoir pathos, with many shift sidelight and a risky word or two,

until Renée cry out, “spare we the esprit Gaulois, M. Livret!” there

be much to make he angry with this Englishman.



“the esprit Gaulois be the sparkle of crystal common sense, madame, and

may we never abandon it for a puritanism that hide its face to conceal

its filthiness, like a stagnant pond,” reply M. Livret, flash.



“it seem, then, that there be two way of be objectionable,” say

Renée.



“ah! Madame la Marquise, your wit be french,” he breathe low; “keep

your heart so!”



both M. Livret and M. d’Orbec have forget that when Count Henri

d’Henriel be receive at Tourdestelle, the arrival of the Englishman

be pleasantly anticipate by they as an eclipse of the handsome boy;

but a foreign interloper be quickly dispossess of all mean of

pleasing save that one of take his departure; and they now talk of

Count Henri’s disgrace and banishment in a very warm spirit of

sympathy, not at all see why it should be make to depend upon the

movement of this M. Beauchamp, as it appear to be. Madame d’Auffray

hear some of their dialogue, and hurry with a mouth full of comedy

to Renée, who do not reproach they for silly being, as would be do

elsewhere. on the contrary, she appreciate a scene of such absolute

comedy, recognize it instantly as a situation pluck out of human

nature. she compare they to republicans that regret the sovereign

they have depose for a pretender to start up and govern they.



“who hurry they round to the legitimate king again!” say Madame

d’Auffray.



Renée cast she chin up. “how, my dear?”



“your husband.”



“what of he?”



“he be return.”



“what bring he?”



“you should ask who, my Renée! I be sure he would not hear of M.

Beauchamp’s be here, without an effort to return and do the honour

of the château.”



Renée look hard at she, say, “how thoughtful of you! you must have

make use of the telegraph wire to inform he that M. Beauchamp be

with we.”



“More; I make use of they to inform he that M. Beauchamp be

expect.”



“and that be enough to bring he! he pay M. Beauchamp a wonderful

compliment.”



“such as he would pay to no other man, my Renée. virtually it be the

high of compliment to you. I say that to M. Beauchamp’s credit; for

Raoul have meet he, and, whatever his personal feeling may be, must know

your friend be a man of honour.”



“my friend be... yes, I have no reason to think otherwise,” Renée

reply. her husband’s persistent and exclusive jealousy of Beauchamp

be the singular point in the character of one who appear to have no

sentiment of the kind as regard man that be much less than man of

honour. “so, then, my sister Agnès,” she say, “you suggest the

invitation of M. Beauchamp for the purpose of spur my husband to

return! apparently he and I be surround by plotter.”



“be I so very guilty?” say Madame d’Auffray.



“if that mad boy, half idiot, half panther, be by chance to insult M.

Beauchamp, you would feel so.”



“you have take precaution to prevent their meeting; and besides, M.

Beauchamp do not fight.”



Renée flush crimson.



Madame d’Auffray add, “I do not say that he be other than a perfectly

brave and chivalrous gentleman.”



“oh!” cry Renée, “do not say it, if ever you should imagine it. Bid

Roland speak of he. he be change, oppress: I do he a terrible

wrong ....” she check herself. “but the chief thing to do be to keep

M. d’Henriel away from he. I suspect M. d’Orbec of a design to make

they clash: and you, my dear, will explain why, to flatter I. believe

I, I thirst for flattery; I have have none since M. Beauchamp come: and

you, so acute, must have see the want of it in my face. but you, so

skilful, Agnès, will manage these man. do you know, Agnès, that the

pride of a woman so incredibly clever as you have show I you be

should resent their intrigue and overthrow they. as for I, I think

I could command M. d’Henriel, and I find he have neither reason in he

nor obedience. Singular to say, I know he just as well a week back as

I do now, and then I like he for his quality—or the absence of any.

but how shall we avoid he on the road to Dianet? he be aware that we

be go.”



“take M. Beauchamp by boat,” say Madame d’Auffray.



“the river wind to within a five minute’ walk of Dianet; we could go

by boat,” Renée say musingly. “I think of the boat. but do it not

give the man a triumph that we should seem to try to elude he? what

matter! still, I do not like he to be the falcon, and Nevil Beauchamp

the... little bird. so it be, because we begin badly, Agnès!”



“be it my fault?”



“mine. tell I: the legitimate king return when?”



“in two day or three.”



“and his rebel subject be to address he—how?”



Madame d’Auffray smite the point of a finger softly on her cheek.



“will they be pardon?” say Renée.



“it be for _he_ to kneel, my dearest.”



“legitimacy kneeling for forgiveness be a painful picture, Agnès.

Legitimacy jealous of a foreigner be an odd one. however, we be woman,

bear to our lot. if we could rise en masse!—but we cannot. embrace I.”



Madame d’Auffray embrace she, without an idea that she assist in

perform the farewell of their confidential intimacy.



when Renée trifle with Count Henri, it be play with fire, and she

know it; and once or twice she bemoan to Agnès d’Auffray she

abandon state, which condemn she, for the sake of the sensation of

living, to have recourse to perilous pastime; but she be revolt, as

at a piece of treachery, that Agnès should have suggest the

invitation of Nevil Beauchamp with the secret design of win home

her husband to protect she. this, for one reason, be because Beauchamp

give she no notion of danger; none, therefore, of require protection;

and the presence of her husband could not but be hateful to he, an

undeserved infliction. to she it be intolerable that they should be

bring into contact. it seem almost as hard that she should have to

dismiss Beauchamp to preclude their meeting. she remember,

nevertheless, a certain desperation of mind, scarce imaginable in the

retrospect, by which, trembling, fever-smite, scorn herself, she

have be reduce to hope for Nevil Beauchamp’s come as for a rescue.

the night of the storm have rouse her heart. since then his perfect

friendliness have lull, his air of thoughtfulness have interest it;

and the fancy that he, who neither reproach nor sentimentalize, be

to be infinitely compassionate, stir up remorse. she could not tell

her friend Agnès of these feeling while her feeling be anger

against her friend. so she talk lightly of “the legitimate king,” and

they embrace: a situation of comedy quite as true as that present by

the humble admirer of the brilliant chatelaine.



Beauchamp have the pleasure of row Madame la Marquise to the short

shade walk separate the river from Château Dianet, whither M.

d’Orbec go on horseback, and Madame d’Auffray and M. Livret be

drive. the portrait of diane of Dianet be praise for the beauty of

the dame, a soft-fleshed acutely feature person, a

fresh-of-the-toilette face, of the configuration of head of the cat,

relieve by a delicately aquiline nose; and it could only be the cat of

fairy metamorphosis which should stand for that illustration: brow and

chin make an acceptable triangle, and eye and mouth could be what she

please for mouse or monarchs. M. Livret do not gainsay the impeachment

of she by a great french historian, tender to woman, to frailty in

particular—yes, she be cold, perhaps grasp: but dwell upon she in

her character of woman; conceive her exist, to estimate the charm of

her graciousness. name the two country which alone have produce the

WOMAN, the ideal woman, the woman of art, whose beauty, grace, and wit

offer she to our contemplation in an atmosphere above the ordinary

condition of the world: these two country be France and Greece!

none other give you the perfect woman, the woman who conquer time, as

she conquer man, by virtue of the divinity in her blood; and she, as

little as illustrious hero, be to be judge by the law and standard

of less creature. in fashion she, nature and art have work

together: in she, poetry walk the earth. the question of good or bad

be entirely to be put aside: it be a rustic’s impertinence—a bourgeois’

vulgarity. she be preeminent, voilà tout. have she grace and beauty?

then you be answer: such possession be an assurance that her

influence in the aggregate must be for good. thunder, destructive to

insect, refresh earth: so she. so sing the rhapsodist. possibly a

scholarly little french gentleman, go down the grey slope of sixty

to second childishness, recover a second juvenility in these

enthusiasm; though what it be that inspire our matron to take up

with they be unimaginable. M. Livret’s ardour be a contrast to the

young Englishman’s vacant gaze at diane, and the symbol of her

goddesship run along the wall, the bed, the cabinet, everywhere

that the chaste device could find frontage and a corner.



M. d’Orbec remain outside the château inspect the fish-pond. when

they rejoin he he compliment Beauchamp semi-ironically on his

choice of the river’s quiet charm in preference to the dusty road.

Madame de Rouaillout say, “come, M. d’Orbec; what if you surrender

your horse to M. Beauchamp, and row I back?” he change colour,

hesitate, and decline he have an engagement to call on M. d’Henriel.



“when do you see he?” say she.



he be confused. “it be not long since, madame.”



“on the road?”



“come along the road.”



“and our glove?”



“Madame la Marquise, if I may trust my memory, M. d’Henriel be not in

official costume.”



Renée allow herself to be reassure.



a ceremonious visit that M. Livret insist on be pay to the chapel

of Diane, where she have worship and lay she widow ashe, which,

say M. Livret, the fiend of the Revolution would not let rest.



he raise his voice to denounce they.



it be Roland de Croisnel that answer: “the Revolution be our

grandmother, monsieur, and I cannot hear she abuse.”



Renée catch her brother by the hand. he step out of the chapel with

Beauchamp to embrace he; then kiss Renée, and, remark that she

be pale, fetched flood colour to her cheek. he be hearty air to

they after the sentimentalism they have be hear. beauchamp and he

walk like love comrade at school, question, answer,

chattering, laughing,—a beautiful sight to Renée, and she look at

Agnès d’Auffray to ask she whether “this Englishman” be not one of

they in his frankness and freshness.



Roland stop to turn to Renée. “I meet d’Henriel on my ride here,” he

say with a sharp inquisitive expression of eye that pass

immediately.



“you ride here from Tourdestelle, then,” say Renée.



“have he be one of the company, marquise?”



“do he ride by you without speak, Roland?”



“thus.” Roland describe a spanish caballero’s formallest salutation,

say to Beauchamp, “not the good sample of our young

Frenchman;—woman-spoil! not that the well kind of article need be

spoil by they—heaven forbid that! Friend Nevil,” he speak lower, “do

you know, you have something of the prophet in you? I remember: much

have come true. an old spoiler of woman be bad than one spoil by

they! ah, well: and Madame Culling? and your seven-foot high uncle? and

have you a fleet to satisfy Nevil Beauchamp yet? you shall see a trial

of our new field-gun at Rouen.”



they be separate with difficulty.



Renée wish her brother to come in the boat; and he would have do

so, but for his objection to have his arab bestridden by a man unknown

to he.



“my love be a four-foot, and here’s my love,” Roland say, go

outside the gilt gate-rail to the graceful little beast, that

acknowledge his ownership with an arch and swing of the neck round to

he.



he mount and call, “Au revoir, M. le Capitaine.”



“Au revoir, M. le Commandant,” cry Beauchamp.



“admiral and marshal, each of we in good season,” say Roland. “thank

to your promotion, I have a letter from my sister. advance a grade, and

I may get another.”



Beauchamp think of the strange gulf now between he and the time when

he pine to be a commodore, and an admiral. the gulf be bridge as he

look at Renée petting Roland’s horse.



“be there in the world so lovely a creature?” she say, and appeal

fondlingly to the beauty that bring out beauty, and, bid it

disdain rivalry, rival it insomuch that in a moment of trance

Beauchamp with his bodily vision beheld she, not there, but on the Lido

of Venice, shine out of the year go.



old love reviving may be love of a phantom after all. we can, if it

must revive, keep it to the limit of a ghostly love. the ship in the

arabian tale come within the zone of the magnetic mountain, fly all

its bolt and bar, and become sheer timber, but that be the

carelessness of the ship’s captain; and hitherto Beauchamp could

applaud himself for steer with prudence, while Renée’s attraction

warn more than they beckon. she be magnetic to he as no other

woman be. then whither his course but homeward?



after they have take leave of their host and hostess of Château Dianet,

walk across a meadow to a line of charmille that lead to the

river-side, he say, “now I have see Roland I shall have to decide

upon go.”



“Wantonly win be deservedly lose,” say Renée. “but do not disappoint

my Roland much because of his foolish sister. be he not look

handsome? and he be young to be a commandant, for we have no interest

at this Court. they keep he out of the last war! my father expect to

find you at Tourdestelle, and how account to he for your hurried

flight? save with the story of that which bring you to we!”



“the glove? I shall beg for the fellow to it before I depart,

marquise.”



“you perceive my disposition to light-headedness, monsieur, when I be

a girl.”



“I say that I—but the past be dust. shall I ever see you in England?”



“that country seem to frown on I. but if I do not go there, nor you

come here, except to imperious mysterious invitation, which will not

be repeat, the future be dust as well as the past: for I, at least.

dust here, dust there!—if one could be like a silk-worm, and live lie

on the leaf one feed on, it would be a sort of answer to the

riddle—live out of the dust, and in the present. I find none in my

religion. no doubt, Madame de Brézé do: why do you call Diane so to

M. Livret?”



she look at he smile as they come out of the shadow of the clip

tree. he be glance about for the boat.



“the boat be across the river,” Renée say, in a voice that make he

seek her eye for an explanation of the dead sound. she be very pale.

“you have perfect command of yourself? for my sake!” she say.



he look round.



stand up in the boat, against the opposite bank, and lean with

cross leg on one of the scull plant in the gravel of the river,

Count Henri d’Henriel’s handsome figure present itself to Beauchamp’s

gaze.



with a dryness that smack of his uncle Everard Romfrey, Beauchamp

say of the fantastical posture of the young man, “one can do that on

fresh water.”



Renée do not comprehend the sailor-sarcasm of the remark; but she also

comment on the statuesque appearance of Count Henri: “be the pose for

photography or for sculpture?”



neither of they show a sign of surprise or of impatience.



M. d’Henriel could not maintain the attitude. he uncross his leg

deliberately, droop hat in hand, and come paddle over; apologize

indolently, and say, “I be not, I believe, trespass on the ground

of Tourdestelle, Madame la Marquise!”



“you happen to be in my boat, M. le Comte,” say Renée.



“permit I, madame.” he have set one foot on shore, with his back to

Beauchamp, and reach a hand to assist her step into the boat.



Beauchamp catch fast hold of the bow while Renée lay a finger on

Count Henri’s shoulder to steady herself.



the instant she have take her seat, Count Henri dash the scull’s

blade at the bank to push off with she, but the boat be fast. his

manœuvre have be foresee. beauchamp swing on board like the last

seaman of a launch, and crouch as the boat rock away to the stream;

and still Count Henri lean on the scull, not in a choose attitude,

but for positive support. he have throw his force into the blow, to

push off triumphantly, and leave his rival standing. it occur that

the boat’s brief resistance and rock away agitated his artificial

equipoise, and, by the operation of inexorable law, the long he

lean across an extend surface the more be he dependent; so that

when the measure of the water exceed the length of his fail

support on land, there be no help for it: he pitch in. his grimace

of chagrin at the sight of Beauchamp securely establish, have scarcely

yield to the grimness of feature of the man who feel he must go, as

he take the plunge; and these two emotion combine to make an

extraordinary countenance.



he go like a gallant gentleman; he throw up his heel to clear the

boat, drop into about four foot of water, and his first remark on

rise be, “I trust, madame, I have not have the misfortune to splash

you.”



then he wade to the bank, scramble to his foot, and draw out his

moustachio to their curving end. Renée nod sharply to Beauchamp to

bid he row. he, with less of wisdom, having seize the float scull

abandon by Count Henri, and get it ready for the stroke, say a word

of condolence to the dripping man.



Count Henri’s shoulder and neck express a kind of negative that,

like a wet dog’s shake of the head, end in an involuntary whole

length shudder, dog-like and deplorable to behold. he must have be

conscious of this miserable exhibition of himself; he turn to

Beauchamp: “you be, I be inform, a sailor, monsieur. I compliment

you on your naval tactic: our next meeting will be on land. Au revoir,

monsieur. Madame la Marquise, I have the honour to salute you.”



with these word he retreat.



“row quickly, I beg of you,” Renée say to Beauchamp. her desire be to

see Roland, and open her heart to her brother; for now it have to be

open. not a minute must be lose to prevent further mischief. and who

be guilty? she. her heart clamour of her guilt to waken a cry of

innocence. a disdainful pity for the superb young savage just make

ludicrous, relieve he of blame, implacable though he be. he be

nothing; an accident—a fool. but he might become a terrible instrument

of punishment. the thought of that possibility give it an aspect of

retribution, under which her cry of innocence be insufferable in its

feebleness. it would have be different with she if Beauchamp have

take advantage of her fever of anxiety, suddenly appease by the sight

of he on the evening of his arrival at Tourdestelle after the storm,

to attempt a renewal of their old break love-bond. then she would

have see only a conflict between two man, neither of whom could claim

a more secret right than the other to be call she lover, and of whom

both be on a common footing, and partly despicable. but Nevil

Beauchamp have behave as her perfect true friend, in the character she

have hope for when she summon he. the sense of her guilt lie in the

recognition that he have save she. from what? from the consequence of

delirium rather than from love—surely delirium, found on delusion;

love have not exist. she have say to Count Henri, “you speak to I of

love. I be belove when I be a girl, before my marriage, and for

year I have not see or correspond with the man who love I, and I

have only to lift my finger now and he will come to I, and not once

will he speak to I of love.” those be the word originate the

wager of the glove. but what of she, if Nevil Beauchamp have not come?



her heart jump, and she blush ungovernably in his face,—as if he

be see she withdraw her foot from the rock’s edge, and have that

instant rescue she. but how come it she have be so helpless? she

could ask; she could not answer.



Thinking, talk to her heart, be useless. the deceiver simply

feign utter condemnation to make partial comfort acceptable. she

burn to do some act of extreme self-abasement that should bring an

unwonted degree of wrath on she externally, and so re-entitle she to

consideration in her own eye. she burn to be interrogate, to have

to weep, to be scorn, abuse, and forgive, that she might say she

do not deserve pardon. Beauchamp be too english, evidently too blind,

for the description of judge-accuser she require; one who would worry

she without mercy, until—disgrace by the excess of torture

inflict—he should reinstate she by as much as he have overcharge his

accusation, and a little more. reasonably enough, instinctively in

fact, she shun the hollow of an english ear. a surprise be in

reserve for she.



Beauchamp give up rowing. as he rest on the scull, his head be bent

and turn toward the bank. Renée perceive an over-swollen monster

gourd that have stray from a garden adjoining the river, and hung

slide heavily down the bank on one greenish yellow cheek, in

prolonged contemplation of its image in the mirror below. apparently

this obese Narcissus enchain his attention.



she tap her foot. “be you tired of rowing, monsieur?”



“it be exactly here,” say he, “that you tell I you expect your

husband’s return.”



she glance at the gourd, bit her lip, and, colour, say, “at what

point of the river do I request you to congratulate I on it?”



she would not have say that, if she have know the thought at work

within he.



he set the boat sway from side to side, and at once the hugeous

reflection of that conceivably self-enamour bulk quaver and

distend, and be shatter in a thousand dancing fragment, to

re-unite and recompose its maudlin air of imaged satisfaction.



she begin to have a vague idea that he be indulge grotesque fancy.



very strangely, the ridiculous thing, in the shape of an over-stretch

likeness, that she never would have see have he indicate it directly,

become transfuse from his mind to hers by his abstract, half-amuse

observation of the great dancing gourd—that caper antiquity,

lumber volatility, wandering, self-adore, gross bald Cupid, elatest

of nondescript! her sense imagine the impression agitate

Beauchamp’s, and exaggerate they beyond limit; and when he amaze she

with a straight look into her eye, and the word, “well let it be a

youth—and live, than fall back to that!” she understand he

immediately; and, together with her old fear of his impetuosity and

downrightness, come the vivid recollection, like a bright finger

point upon darkness, of what foul destiny, magnify by her present

abhorrence of it, he would have save she from in the day of Venice

and Touraine, and unto what loathly example of the hideous grotesque

she, in spite of her lover’s foresight on her behalf, have become

ally.



face to face as they sit, she have no defence for her scarlet cheek;

her eye waver.



“we will land here; the cottager shall row the boat up,” she say.



“somewhere—anywhere,” say Beauchamp. “but I must speak. I will tell

you now. I do not think you to blame—barely; not in my sight; though no

man living would have suffer as I should. probably some day more and

you would have be lose. you look for I! trust your instinct now

I’m with you as well as when I’m absent. have you courage? that’s the

question. you have year to live. can you live they in this place—with

honour? and alive really?”



Renée’s eye grow wide; she try to frown, and her brow merely

twitch; to speak, and she be inarticulate. his madness, miraculous

penetration, and the super-masculine charity in he, unknown to the

world of young man in their treatment of woman, excited, awed, and

melt she. he have see the whole truth of her relation with M.

d’Henriel!—the wickedness of they in one light, the innocence in

another; and without prompt a confession he forgive she. could she

believe it? this be love, and manly love.



she yearn to be on her foot, to feel the possibility of an escape

from he.



she point to a landing. he spring to the bank. “it could end in

nothing else,” he say, “unless you beat cold to I. and now I have

your hand, Renée! it’s the hand of a live woman, you have no need to

tell I that; but faithful to her comrade! I can swear it for

she—faithful to a _true_ alliance! you be not married, you be simply

chain: and you be terrorize. what a perversion of you it be! it

wreck you. but with I? be I not your lover? you and I be one life.

what have we suffer for but to find this out and act on it? do I not

know that a woman live, and be not the rooted piece of vegetation

hypocrite and tyrant expect she to be? act on it, I say; own I,

break the chain, come to I; say, Nevil Beauchamp or death! and death

for you? but you be poison and thwart-eddying, as you live now:

bad, shame the Renée I know. ah—Venice! but now we be both of we

wise and strong: we have go through fire. who foretell it? this

day, and this misery and perversion that we can turn to joy, if we

will—if you will! no heart to dare be no heart to love!—answer that!

shall I see you cower away from I again? not this time!”



he sweep on in a flood, utter mad thing, foolish thing, and thing

of an insight electrify to she. through the cottager’s garden,

across a field, and within the park gate of Tourdestelle it continue

unceasingly; and deeply be she win by the rebellious note in all that

he say, deeply too by his disregard of the vulgar art of wooer: she

detect none. he do not speak so much to win as to help she to see

with her own orb. nor be it roughly or chidingly, though it be

absolutely, that he strip she of the veil a waver woman will keep

to herself from her heart’s lord if she can.



they arrive long after the boat at Tourdestelle, and Beauchamp might

believe he have prevail with she, but for her forlorn repetition of

the question he have put to she idly and as a new idea, instead of

significantly, with a recollection and a doubt “have I courage, Nevil?”



the grain of common sense in cowardice cause she to repeat it when her

reason be bedim, and passion assume the right to show the way of

right and wrong.









CHAPTER XXVI.

MR. BLACKBURN TUCKHAM





some time after Beauchamp have be see renew his canvass in

Bevisham a report reach Mount Laurels that he be lame of a leg. the

wit of the opposite camp revive the FRENCH MARQUEES, but it be

generally acknowledge that he have come back without the lady: she be

invisible. Cecilia Halkett ride home with her father on a dusky Autumn

evening, and find the card of Commander Beauchamp await she. he

might have stay to see she, she think. lady be not customarily

so very late in return from a ride on chill evening of Autumn. only

a quarter of an hour be between his visit and her return. the

shortness of the interval make it appear the deep gulf. she notice

that her father particularly inquire of the man-servant whether

Captain Beauchamp limp. it seem a piece of kindly anxiety on his

part. the captain be mount, the man say. Cecilia be conscious of

rumour be abroad relate to Nevil’s expedition to France; but he

have enemy, and be at war with they, and she hold herself indifferent

to tattle. this card bear his name, recently in his hand, be much

more insidious and precise. she take it to her room to look at it.

nothing but his name and naval title be inscribe; no pencil line;

she have not expect to discover one. the simple card be her dark

light, as a handkerchief, a flower, a knot of riband, have be for man

luridly illuminate by such small spark to fle their beam on

shadow and read the monstrous thing for truth. her purer virgin

blood be not inflame. she read the signification of the card sadly as

she do clearly. what she could not so distinctly imagine be, how he

could reconcile the devotion to his country, which he have teach she to

put her faith in, with his unhappy subjection to Madame de Rouaillout.

how could the nobler sentiment exist side by side with one that be

lawless? or be the wildness characteristic of his political view

proof of a nature incline to disown moral tie? she fear so; he do

not speak of the clergy respectfully. read in the dark, she be

force to rely on her social instinct, and she distrust her personal

feeling as much as she could, for she wish to know the truth of he;

anything, pain and heartrending, rather than the shutting of the eye

in an unworthy abandonment to mere emotion and fascination. Cecilia’s

love could not be otherwise give to a man, however near she might be

draw to love—though she should suffer the pang of love cruelly.



she place his card in her writing-desk; she have his likeness there.

Commander Beauchamp encourage the art of photography, as those that

make long voyage do, in reciprocate what they petition their friend

for. Mrs. Rosamund Culling have a whole collection of photograph of

he, equal to a visual history of his growth in chapter, from boyhood

to midshipmanship and to manhood. the speciman possess by Cecilia be

one of a couple that Beauchamp have forward to Mrs. Grancey Lespel on

the day of his departure for France, and be a present from that lady,

purchase, like so many present, at a cost Cecilia would have pay

heavily in gold to have be spare, namely, a public blush. she be

allow to make her choice, and she choose the profile, repeat a

remark of Mrs. Culling’s, that it suggest an arrow-head in the

upflight; whereupon Mr. Stukely Culbrett have say, “then there be the

man, for he be undoubtedly a projectile”; nor be politically-hostile

punster on an arrow-head inactive. but Cecilia be think of the

side-face she (less intently than Beauchamp at her) have glance at

during the drive into Bevisham. at that moment, she fancy Madame de

Rouaillout might be do likewise; and oh that she have the portrait of

the french lady as well!



next day her father toss she a photograph of another gentleman,

come out of a letter he have receive from old Mrs. Beauchamp. he

ask her opinion of it. she say, “I think he would have suit

Bevisham well than Captain Baskelett.” of the original, who present

himself at Mount Laurels in the course of the week, she have nothing to

say, except that he be very like the photograph, very unlike Nevil

Beauchamp. “yes, there I’m of your opinion,” her father observe. the

gentleman be Mr. Blackburn Tuckham, and it be amusing to find an

exuberant Tory in one who be the reverse of the cavalier type. Nevil

and he seem to have be sort to the wrong side. Mr. Tuckham have a

round head, square flat forehead, and ruddy face; he stand as if his

foot claim the earth under they for his own, with a certain shortness

of leg that detract from the majesty of his resemblance to our Eighth

Harry, but increase his air of solidity; and he be authoritative in

speak. “let I set you right, sir,” he say sometimes to Colonel

Halkett, and that be his modesty. “you be altogether wrong,” Miss

Halkett hear herself inform, which be his courtesy. he examine

some of her water-colour drawing before sit down to dinner,

approve of they, but think it necessary to lay a broad finger on

they to show their defect. on the question of politic, “I venture to

state,” he remark, in anything but the tone of a venture, “that no

educate man of ordinary sense who have visit our colony will come

back a Liberal.” as for a man of sense and education be a Radical,

he scout the notion with a pooh sufficient to awaken a vessel in the

doldrums. he say carelessly of Commander Beauchamp, that he might

think himself one. either the radical candidate for Bevisham stand

self-deceive, or—the other supposition. Mr. Tuckham would venture to

state that no english gentleman, exempt from an examination by order of

the Commissioners of Lunacy, could be sincerely a Radical. “not a bit

of it; nonsense,” he reply to Miss Halkett’s hint at the existence of

radical view; “that be, those view be out of politic; they be

matter for the police. dutch dyke be build to shut away the sea from

cultivate land, and of course it’s a part of the business of the Dutch

Government to keep up the dykes,—and of our to guard against the mob;

but that be only a political consideration after the mob have be

allow to undermine our defence.”



“they speak,” say Miss Halkett, “of educate the people to fit they—”



“they speak of command the wind and tide,” he cut her short, with

no clear analogy; “wait till we have a storm. it’s a delusion amount

to dementedness to suppose, that with the people inside our defence,

we can be tame they and trick they. as for send they to school

after give they power, it’s like ask a wild beast to sit down to

dinner with we—he want the whole table and we too. the good education

for the people be government. they’re begin to see that in

Lancashire at last. I run down to Lancashire for a couple of day on my

landing, and I’m thankful to say Lancashire be prepare to take a step

back. Lancashire lead the country. lancashire man see what this

Liberalism have do for the labour-market.”



“Captain Beauchamp consider that the political change come over the

mind of the manufacturer be due to the large fortune they have

make,” say Miss Halkett, maliciously associate a radical prophet

with he.



he be unaffected by it, and continue: “property be ballast as well as

treasure. I call property fund good sense. I would give it every

privilege. if we be to speak of patriotism, I say the possession of

property guarantee it. I maintain that the lead of man of property be

in most case sure to be the safe one.”



“_i_ think so,” Colonel Halkett interpose, and he speak as a man of

property.



Mr. Tuckham grow fervent in his allusion to our wealth and our

commerce. having win the race and gain the prize, shall we let it

slip out of our grasp? upon this topic his voice descend to tone of

priestlike awe: for be we not the envy of the world? our wealth be

countless, fabulous. it may well inspire veneration. and we have win it

with our hand, thank (he imply it so) to our religion. we be rich

in money and industry, in those two thing only, and the corruption of

an energetic industry be constantly threaten by the profusion of

wealth give it employment. this be the case, either your radical

do not know the first condition of human nature, or they do; and if

they do they be traitor, and the liberal open the gate to they

be fool: and some be knave. we perish as a Great Power if we cease

to look sharp ahead, hold firm together, and make the utmost of what we

possess. the word for the performance of those duty be Toryism: a

word with an old flavour than Conservatism, and Mr. Tuckham prefer

it. by all mean let workman be free man but a man must earn his

freedom daily, or he will become a slave in some form or another: and

the way to earn it be by work and obedience to right direction. in a

country like ours, open on all side to the competition of intelligence

and strength, with a Press that be the voice of all party and of

every interest; in a country offer to your investment three and a

half and more per cent., secure as the firmament!



he perceive an amazed expression on Miss Halkett’s countenance; and

“ay,” say he, “that mean the certainty of food to million of mouth,

and comfort, if not luxury, to half the population. a safe

percentage on saving be the basis of civilization.”



but he have bruise his eloquence, for though you may start a sermon

from stone to hit the star, he must be a practised orator who shall

descend out of the abstract to take up a heavy lump of the concrete

without unseat himself, and he stammer and come to a flat ending:

“in such a country—well, I venture to say, we have a right to condemn

in advance disturber of the peace, and they must show very good cause

indeed for not be summarily hold—to account for their conduct.”



the allocution be not deliver in the presence of an audience other

than sympathetic, and Miss Halkett rightly guess that it be intend

to strike Captain Beauchamp by ricochet. he puff at the mention of

Beauchamp’s name. he have read a report speech or two of Beauchamp’s,

and shake his head over a quotation of the stuff, as though he would

have spring at he like a lion, but for his enrolment as a constable.



not a whit the less do Mr. Tuckham drink his claret relishingly, and

he tell story incidental to his travel now and then, commend the

fishing here, the shooting there, and in some few place the cookery,

with much bright emphasis when it could be praise; it appear to be

an endear recollection to he. still, as a man of progress, he

declare his belief that we English would ultimately turn out the good

cook, have indubitably the good material. “our incomprehensible

political pusillanimity” be the one sad point about we: we have be

drive from surrender to surrender.



“like geese upon a common, I have hear it say,” Miss Halkett assist

he to Dr. Shrapnel’s comparison.



Mr. Tuckham laugh, and half yawn and sigh, “dear I!”



his laughter be catch, and somehow more persuasive of the soundness

of the man’s heart and head than his remark.



she would have be astonish to know that a gentleman so uncourtly,

if not uncouth—judge by the standard of the circle she move in—and so

unskille in please the sight and hearing of lady as to treat they

like junior comrade, have raise the vow within himself on see she:

you, or no woman!



the colonel delight in he, both as a strong and able young fellow,

and a refreshingly aggressive recruit of his party, who be for

onslaught, and invoke common sense, instead of wave the flag of

sentiment in retreat; a very horse-artillery man of Tories. regret

immensely that Mr. Tuckham have not reach England early, that he

might have occupy the seat for Bevisham, about to be give to Captain

Baskelett, Colonel Halkett set up a contrast of Blackburn Tuckham and

Nevil Beauchamp; a singular instance of unfairness, his daughter

think, consider that the distinct contrast present by the

circumstance be that of Mr. Tuckham and Captain Baskelett.



“it seem to I, papa,—that you be contrast the idealist and the

realist,” she say.



“ah, well, we don’t want the idealist in politic,” mutter the

colonel.



Latterly he also have take to shake his head over Nevil: Cecilia

dared not ask he why.



Mr. Tuckham arrive at Mount Laurels on the eve of the Nomination day

in Bevisham. an article in the Bevisham Gazette call upon all true

liberal to demonstrate their unanimity by a multitudinous show of

hand, he ascribe to the writing of a child of Erin; and he be highly

divert by the Liberal’s hiring of Paddy to “pen and spout” for he.

“a Scotchman manage, and Paddy do the sermon for _all_ their

journal,” he say off-hand; add: “and the English be the

compositor, I suppose.” you may take that for an instance of the

national spirit of liberal newspaper!



“ah!” sigh the colonel, as at a case clearly demonstrate against

they.



a drive down to Bevisham to witness the ceremony of the nomination in

the town-hall sober Mr. Tuckham’s disposition to generalize.

Beauchamp have the show of hand, and to say with Captain Baskelett,

that they be a dirty majority, be beneath Mr. Tuckham’s verbal

antagonism. he fall into a studious reserve, note everything,

listen to everybody, greatly to Colonel Halkett’s admiration of one

by nature a talker and a thunderer.



the show of hand Mr. Seymour Austin declare to be the most delusive

of electoral auspex; and it prove so. a little later than four

o’clock in the afternoon of the election-day, Cecilia receive a

message from her father tell she that both of the Liberals be

head; “Beauchamp nowhere.”



Mrs. Grancey Lespel be the next herald of Beauchamp’s defeat. she

merely state the fact that she have meet the colonel and Mr. Blackburn

Tuckham drive on the outskirt of the town, and have promise to bring

Cecilia the final number of the poll. without name they, she

unroll the great business in her mind.



“a man who in the middle of an election go over to France to fight a

duel, can hardly expect to win; he have all the morality of an English

borough oppose to he,” she say; and see the young lady stiffen:

“oh! the duel be positive,” she drop her voice. “with the husband.

who else could it be? and return invalid. that be evidence. my

nephew Palmet have it from Vivian Ducie, and he be acquaint with she

tolerably intimately, and the story be, she be overtake in her flight

in the night, and the duel follow at eight o’clock in the morning;

but her brother insist on fight for Captain Beauchamp, and I

cannot tell you how—but _his_ place in it I cann’t explain—there be a

beau jeune homme, and it’s quite possible that _he_ should have be

the person to stand up against the marquis. at any rate, he insult

Captain Beauchamp, or think your hero have insult he, and the duel

be with one or the other. it matter exceedingly little with whom, if

a duel be fight, and you see we have quite establish that.”



“I hope it be not true,” say Cecilia.



“my dear, that be the christian thing to do,” say Mrs. Lespel.

“duel be horrible: though those Romfreys!—and the Beauchamps be

just as bad, or nearly. Colonel Richard fight for a friend’s wife or

sister. but in these day duel be incredible. it be an inhuman

practice always, and it be now bad—it be a breach of manner. I would

hope it be not true; and you may mean that I have it from Lord Palmet.

but I know Vivian Ducie as well as I know my nephew, and if he

distinctly mention an occurrence, we may too surely rely on the truth

of it; he be not a man to spread mischief. be you unaware that he meet

Captain Beauchamp at the château of the marquise? the whole story be

act under his eye. he have only to take up his pen. generally he

favour I with his french gossip. I suppose there be circumstance

in this affair more suitable to Palmet than to I. he write a

description of Madame de Rouaillout that set Palmet strut about for

an hour. I have no doubt she must be a very beautiful woman, for a

Frenchwoman: not regular feature; expressive, capricious. Vivian Ducie

lay great stress on her eye and eyebrow, and, I think, her hair.

with a Frenchwoman’s figure, that be enough to make man crazy. he say

her husband deserve—but what will not young man write? it be deeply to

be regret that englishman abroad—woman the same, I fear—get the

continental tone in moral. but how Captain Beauchamp could expect to

carry on an Election and an intrigue together, only a head like his can

tell we. Grancey be in high indignation with he. it do not concern

the Election, you can imagine. something that man Dr. Shrapnel have

do, which he say Captain Beauchamp could have prevent. quarrel of

man! I have instruct Palmet to write to Vivian Ducie for a photograph

of Madame de Rouaillout. do you know, one have a curiosity to see the

face of the woman for whom a man ruin himself. but I say again, he

ought to be marry.”



“that there may be two victim?” Cecilia say it smile.



she be young in suffering, and think, as the unseasoned and

inexperienced do, that a mask be a concealment.



“Married—settle; to have he bind in honour,” say Mrs. Lespel. “I

have a conversation with he when he be at Itchincope; and his look,

and what I know of his father, that gallant and handsome Colonel

Richard Beauchamp, would give one a kind of confidence in he;

suppose always that he be not strike with one of those deadly

passion that be like snake, like magic. I positively believe in

they. I have see they. and if they end, they end as if the man be

burn out, and be ashe inside; as you see Mr. Stukely Culbrett, all

cynicism. you would not now suspect he of a passion! it be true. oh, I

know it! that be what the man go to. the woman die. Vera Winter die at

twenty-three. Caroline Ormond be hardly old. you know her story;

everybody know it. the most singular and convincing case be that of

Lord Alfred Burnley and Lady Susan Gardiner, wife of the general; and

there be an instance of two similarly afflict—a very rare case, most

rare: they never could meet to part! it be almost ludicrous. it be now

quite certain that they do not conspire to meet. at last the absolute

fatality became so well understand by the person immediately

interested—you laugh?”



“do I laugh?” say Cecilia.



“we should all know the world, my dear, and you be a strong head. the

knowledge be only dangerous for fool. and if romance be occasionally

ridiculous, as I own it can be, humdrum, I protest, be everlastingly

so. by-the-by, I should have tell you that Captain Beauchamp be one

hundred and ninety below Captain Baskelett when the state of the poll

be hand to I. the gentleman drive with your father compare the

Liberals to a parachute cut away from the balloon. be he army or navy?”



“he be a barrister, and some cousin of Captain Beauchamp.”



“I should not have take he for a Beauchamp,” say Mrs. Lespel; and,

resume her worldly sagacity, “I should not like to be in opposition

to that young man.”



she seem to have a fancy unexpresse regard Mr. Tuckham. remind

herself that she might be behind time at Itchincope, where the guest

would be numerous that evening, and the song of triumph loud, with

Captain Baskelett to lead it, she kiss the young lady she have

unintentionally be torture so long, and drive away.



Cecilia hope it be not true. her heart sink heavily under the belief

that it be. she imagine the world abuse Nevil and cast he out,

as those elector of Bevisham have just do, and impulsively she

plead for he, and became drown in criminal blush that force she

to defend herself with a determination not to believe the dreadful

story, though she continue mitigate the wickedness of it; as if, by

a singular inversion of the fact, her clear good sense excuse, and it

be her heart that condemn he. she dwelt fondly on an image of the

“gallant and handsome Colonel Richard Beauchamp,” conjure up in her

mind from the fervour of Mrs. Lespel when speak of Nevil’s father,

whose chivalry throw a light on the son’s, and whose error, condone

by time, and with a certain brilliancy play above they, intercede

strangely on behalf of Nevil.









CHAPTER XXVII.

a short SIDELOOK AT the ELECTION





the brisk Election-day, unlike that wearisome but instructive canvass

of the Englishman in his castle vicatim, teach little; and its

humour be those of a badly manage Christmas pantomime without a

columbine—old trick, no grace. nevertheless, thing hang together so

that it cannot be pass over with a bare statement of the fact of the

liberal-radical defeat in Bevisham: the day be not without fruit in

time to come for he whom his commiserate admirer of the non-voting

sex all round the borough call the poor dear commander. Beauchamp’s

holiday out of England have incite Dr. Shrapnel to break a positive

restriction put upon he by Jenny Denham, and actively pursue the

canvass and the harangue in person; by which conduct, as Jenny have

foresee, many temperate elector be alienate from Commander

Beauchamp, though no doubt the Radicals be make compact: for they may

be the skirmishing faction—poor scatter fragment, none of they

sufficiently downright for the other; each outstrip each;

rudimentary emperor, elementary prophet, inspire physician,

nostrum-devour patient, whatsoever you will; and still here and

there a man shall arise to march they in close column, if they can but

trust he; in perfect subordination, a model even for Tories while they

keep shoulder to shoulder. and to behold such a disciplined body be

intoxicate to the eye of a leader accustom to count ahead upon

vapourish abstraction, and therefore predispose to add a couple of

nought to every tangible figure in his grasp. thus will a realize

fifty become five hundred or five thousand to he: the very sense of

number be instinct with multiplication in his mind; and those year far

on in advance, which he have be look to with some fatigue to the

optic, will suddenly and rollickingly roll up to he at the shutting

of his eye in a temporary fit of gratification. so, by look and by

not look, he achieve his phantom victory—embrace his cloud.



Dr. Shrapnel conceive that the day be to be a radical success; and

he, a citizen aged and exercise in reverse, so rounded by the habit

of they indeed as to tumble and recover himself on the wind of the blow

that strike he, be, it must be acknowledge, stagger and cast down

when he see Beauchamp drop, know full well his regiment have poll

to a man. radical poll early; they would poll at cockcrow if they

might; they dance on the morning. as for their chagrin at noon, you

will find description of it in the poet’s Inferno. they be for

lift our clay soil on a lever of Archimedes, and be not great

mathematician. they have perchance a foot of our earth, and

perpetually do they seem to be produce an effect, perpetually do

the whole land roll back on they. you have not surely to be remind

that it hurt they; the weight be immense. Dr. Shrapnel, however,

speedily look out again on his vast horizon, though prostrate. he

regain his height of stature with no man’s help. success be but

postpone for a generation or two. be it so very distant? gaze on it

with the eye of our parent orb! “I shall not see it here; you may,” he

say to Jenny Denham; and he fortify his outlook by say to Mr.

Lydiard that the Tories of our time walk, or rather stick, in the

track of the Radicals of a generation back. note, then, that Radicals,

always march to the triumph, never taste it; and for Tories it be

Dead Sea fruit, ashe in their mouth! those Liberals, those

temporiser, compromiser, a concourse of atom! glorify themselves in

the animal satisfaction of suck the juice of the fruit, for which

they pay with their soul. they have no true cohesion, for they have no

vital principle.



Mr. Lydiard be a Liberal, bade the doctor not to forget the work of

the Liberals, who touch on Tory and Radical with a pretty steady

swing, from side to side, in the manner of the pendulum of a clock,

which be the clock’s life, remember that. the Liberals be the

professor of the practicable in politic.



“a suitable image for time-server!” Dr. Shrapnel exclaim, intolerant

of any mention of the Liberals as a party, especially in the hour of

radical discomfiture, when the fact that compromiser should exist

exasperate man of a principle. “your Liberals be the band of Pyrrhus,

an army of bastard, mercenary profess the practicable for pay.

they know we the motive force, the Tories the resist power, and they

feign to aid we in batter our enemy, that they may stop the shock.

we fight, they profit. what be they? Stranded Whigs, crotchetty

manufacturer; dissentient religionist; the half-minded, the

hare-hearted; the I would and I would-not—shifty creature, with

youth’s enthusiasm decay in they, and a purse beginning to jingle;

fear lest we do too much for safety, our enemy not enough for

safety. they a party? let they take action and see! _we_ stand a

thousand defeat; they not one! compromise begat they. once let they

leave suck the teat of compromise, yea, once put on the air of man

who fight and die for a cause, they fly to piece. and whither the

fragment? chiefly, my friend, into the _tory_ rank. seriously so I

say. you between future and past be for the present—but with the

hunt look behind of all godless liver in the present. you Liberals

be Tories with foresight, Radicals without faith. you start, in fear

of Toryism, on an errand of Radicalism, and in fear of Radicalism to

toryism you draw back. there be your pendulum-swing!”



lecture to this effect be deliver by Dr. Shrapnel throughout the

day, for his private spiritual solace it may be suppose, unto Lydiard,

Turbot, Beauchamp, or whomsoever the man chance to be near he, and

never do Sir Oracle wear so extraordinary a garb. the favourite

missile of the day be flour-bag. Dr. Shrapnel’s uncommon height,

and his outrageous long brown coat, would have be sufficient to

attract they, without the reputation he have for desire to subvert

everything old English. the first discharge give he the appearance of

a thaw snowman. drenching of water turn the flour to rib of

paste, and in colour at least he look legitimately the cook’s own

spit hare, escape from her basting ladle, elongate on two leg. it

ensue that whenever he be catch sight of, as he walk unconcernedly

about, the young street-professor of the decorative art be seize

with a frenzy to add their share to the whitening of he, until he

might have be take for a miller that have go bodily through his

meal. the popular cry proclaim he a ghost, and he walk like one,

impassive, blanched, and silent amid the uproar of mob of jolly

ruffian, for each of whom it be a point of honour to have a shy at

old shrapnel.



clothe in this preparation of pie-crust, he call from time to time at

Beauchamp’s hotel, and renew his monologue upon that Radical empire

in the future which be for ever in the future for the pioneer of man,

yet not the less their empire. “do we live in our body?” quoth he,

reply to his fiery interrogation: “ay, the Tories! the Liberals!”



_they_ live in their body. not one syllable of personal consolation

do he vouchsafe to Beauchamp. he do not imagine it could be require

by a man who have bathe in the pure spring of Radicalism; and it

should be remark that Beauchamp deceive he by imitate his air of

happy abstraction, or subordination of the faculty to a distant view,

comparable to a ship’s crew in difficulty receive the report of the

man at the masthead. Beauchamp deceive Miss Denham too, and himself,

by say, as if he cherish the philosophy of defeat, besides the

resolution to fight on:



“it’s only a skirmish lose, and that count for nothing in a battle

without end: it must be incessant.”



“but do incessant battling keep the intellect clear?” be her

memorable answer.



he glance at Lydiard, to indicate that it come of that gentleman’s

influence upon her mind. it be impossible for he to think that woman

think. the idea of a pretty woman exercise her mind independently,

and moreover move he to examine his own, make he smile. could a

sweet-faced girl, the near to Renée in grace of manner and in

feature of all woman know to he, originate a sentence that would set

he reflect? he be unable to forget it, though he allow her no

credit for it.



on the other hand, his admiration of her devotedness to Dr. Shrapnel

be unbounded. there shine a strictly feminine quality! accord to

the romantic vision of the sex entertain by Commander Beauchamp, and

by other who would be the object of it. but not alone the passive

virtue be exhibit by Jenny Denham: she prove that she have high

courage. no remonstrance could restrain Dr. Shrapnel from go out to

watch the struggle, and she go with he as a matter of course on each

occasion. her dress bore witness to she run the gauntlet beside

he.



“it be not throw at I purposely,” she say, to quiet Beauchamp’s

wrath. she save the doctor from be rough mob. once when they

be surround she fasten his arm under her, and by simply move

on with an unswerve air of serenity obtain a passage for he. so

much do she make herself respect, that the gallant rascal become

emulous in dexterity to avoid powder she, by loudly execrate any

but dead shot at the detest one, and certain boy be maltreat

for an ardour involve clumsiness. a young genius of this horde

conceiving, in the spirit of the inventor of our improved modern

ordnance, that it be vain to cast missile which leave a thing

standing, hurl a stone wrap in paper. it miss its mark. Jenny

say nothing about it. the day close with a comfortable fight or two

in by-quarter of the town, probably to prove that an undaunted English

spirit, spite of fickle Fortune, survive in our muscle.









CHAPTER XXVIII.

touch a young lady’S heart and her intellect





Mr. Tuckham find his way to Dr. Shrapnel’s cottage to see his kinsman

on the day after the election. there be a dinner in honour of the

Members for Bevisham at Mount Laurels in the evening, and he be five

minute behind military time when he enter the restive drawing-room

and stand before the colonel. no soon have he state that he have be

under the roof of Dr. Shrapnel, than his unpunctuality be immediately

overlook in the burst of impatience evoke by the name.



“that pestilent fellow!” Colonel Halkett ejaculate. “I understand he

have have the impudence to serve a notice on Grancey Lespel about

encroachment on common land.”



some one describe Dr. Shrapnel’s appearance under the flour storm.



“he deserve anything,” say the colonel, consult his mantelpiece

clock.



Captain Baskelett observe: “I shall have my account to settle with Dr.

Shrapnel.” he speak like a man have a right to be indignant, but

except that the doctor have bestow nickname upon he in a speech

at a meeting, no one could discover the ground for it. he nod

briefly. a radical apple have strike he on the left cheekbone as he

perform his triumphal drive through the town, and a slight

disfigurement remain, to which his hand be apply sympathetically

at interval, for the cheek-bone be prominent in his countenance, and

do not well bear enlargement. and when a fortunate gentleman, desire

to be still more fortunate, would display the win amiability of his

character, distension of one cheek give he an afflictingly false look

of sweetness.



the bent of his mind, nevertheless, be to please Miss Halkett. he

would be smile, and intimately smile. aware that she have a kind of

pitiful sentiment for Nevil, he smile over nevil—poor Nevil! “I give

you my word, Miss Halkett, old Nevil be off his head yesterday. I

daresay he mean to be civil. I meet he; I call out to he, ‘good

day, cousin, I’m afraid you’re beat’ and say he, ‘I fancy you’ve

gain it, _uncle_.’ he don’t know where he be; all abroad, poor boy.

Uncle!—to I!”



Miss Halkett would have accept the instance for a proof of Nevil’s

distraction, have not Mr. Seymour Austin, who sit beside she, laugh

and say to she: “I suppose ‘uncle’ be a chance shot, but it’s equal

to a poetic epithet in the light it cast on the story.” then it seem

to she that Nevil have be keenly quick, and Captain Baskelett’s

impenetrability be a sign of his density. her mood be to think Nevil

Beauchamp only too quick, too adventurous and restless: one that

wreck brilliant gift in a too general warfare; a lover of hazard, a

hater of law. her eye fly over Captain Baskelett as she imagine

Nevil address he as uncle, and, to put aside a spirit of mockery

rise within she, she hint a wish to hear Seymour Austin’s opinion

of Mr. Tuckham. he condense it in an interrogative tone: “the _other_

extreme?” the Tory extreme of Radical Nevil Beauchamp. she assent.

Mr. Tuckham be at that moment prophesy the Torification of mankind;

not as the tremble venturesome idea which we cast on doubtful wind,

but as a ship be launch to ride the water, with huzzas for a thing

accomplish. Mr. Austin raise his shoulder imperceptibly, say to

Miss Halkett: “the turn will come to we as to other—and go. nothing

earthly can escape _that_ revolution. we have to meet it with a policy,

and let it pass with measure carry and our hand wash of some of

our party sin. I be, I hope, true to my party, but the enthusiasm of

party I do not share. he be right, however, when he accuse the nation

of cowardice for the last ten year. one third of the Liberals have

be with we at heart, and dared not speak, and we dare not say what

we wish. we accept a compact that satisfy we both—satisfied _we_

well than when we be oppose by whig—that be, the Liberal reign,

and we govern: and I should add, a very clever juggler be our common

chief. now we have the consequence of hollow peacemaking, in a

suffrage that bid fair to extend to the wearing of hat and boot for

a qualification. the moral of it seem to be that cowardice be even

bad for nation than for individual man, though the consequence come

on we more slowly.”



“you speak of party sin,” Miss Halkett say incredulously.



“I shall think we be the redoubtable party when we admit the charge.”



“be you allude to the landowner?”



“like the land itself, they have rich vein in heavy matter. for

instance, the increase wealth of the country be largely recruit

our rank; and we shall be tempt to mistake number for strength, and

perhaps again be read Conservatism for a special thing of our own—a

fortification. that would be a party sin. Conservatism be a principle

of government; the good because the safe for an old country; and the

guarantee that we do not lose the wisdom of past experience in our

struggle with what be doubtful. liberalism stake too much on the

chance of gain. it be uncomfortably seat on half-a-dozen horse; and

it have to feed they too, and on variety of corn.”



“yes,” Miss Halkett say, pausing, “and I know you would not talk down

to I, but the use of imagery make I feel that I be address as a

primitive intelligence.”



“that’s the fault of my try at condensation, as the hieroglyphist

put an animal for a paragraph. I be incorrigible, you see; but the

lecture in prose must be for by-and-by, if you care to have it.”



“if you care to read it to I. do a single hieroglyphic figure stand

for so much?”



“I have never decipher one.”



“you have be speak to I too long in earnest, Mr. Austin!”



“I accept the admonition, though it be wide than the truth. have you

ever consent to listen to politic before?”



Cecilia redden faintly, think of he who have teach she to listen,

and of her previous contempt of the subject.



a political exposition devoid of imagery be give to she next day on

the sunny south-western terrace of Mount Laurels, when it be only by

mentally translate it into imagery that she could advance a step

beside her intellectual guide; and she be ashamed of the volatility of

her idea. she be constantly compare Mr. Austin and Nevil Beauchamp,

see that the senior and the junior both talk to she with the

familiar recognition of her understanding which be a compliment

without the gross corporeal phrase. but now she make another discovery,

that should have be infinitely more of a compliment, and it be

bewildering, if not repulsive to her:—could it be credit? Mr. Austin

be a firm believer in new and high destiny for woman. he go

far than she could concede the right of human speculation to go; he

be, in fact, as Radical there as Nevil Beauchamp politically; and

would not the latter innovator stare, perchance frown conservatively,

at a prospect of woman take counsel, _in council_, with man upon

public affair, like the woman in the Germania! Mr. Austin, if this

time he talk in earnest, deem that Englishwomen be on the road to

win such a promotion, and would win it ultimately. he say soberly that

he see more certain indication of the reality of progress among woman

than any at present show by man. and he be professedly temperate. he

be but for opening avenue to the mean of livelihood for they, and

leave it to their strength to conquer the position they might wish to

win. his belief that they would do so be the revolutionary sign.



“be there point of likeness between Radicals and Tories?” she

inquire.



“I suspect a cousinship in extreme,” he answer.



“if one might be present at an argument,” say she.



“we have only to meet to fly apart as wide as the Poles,” Mr. Austin

rejoin.



but she have not speak of a particular person to meet he; and how,

then, have she betray herself? she fancy he look unwontedly arch

as he resume:



“the end of the argument would see we each entrench in his party.

suppose I to be tell your radical friend such truism as that we

English have not grow in a day, and be not originally make free and

equal by decree; that we have grow, and must continue to grow, by the

aid and the development of our strength; that our be a fairly legible

history, and a fair example of the good and the bad in human growth;

that his landowner and his peasant have no clear case of right and

wrong to divide they, one be the descendant of strong man, the other

of weak one; and that the former may sink, the latter may rise—there

be no artificial obstruction; and if it be difficult to rise, it be

easy to sink. your radical friend, who would bring they to a level by

proclamation, could not adopt a surer method for destroy the manhood

of a people: he be for doctor wooden man, and I for not let our

stout English be cut down short as laplander; he would have they in a

force house, and I in open air, as hitherto. do you perceive a

discussion? and you apprehend the nature of it. we have nerve. that be

why it be well for man of extremely opposite opinion not to meet. I

dare say Radicalism have a function, and so long as it respect the law

I be ready to encounter it where it cannot be avoid. Pardon my

prosing.”



“recommend I some hard book to study through the Winter,” say

Cecilia, refresh by a discourse that touch no emotion, as by a

febrifuge. could nevil reply to it? she fancy he reply, with that

wild head of his—wildest of nature. she fancy also that her wish be

like Mr. Austin’s not to meet he. she be enjoy a little rest.



it be not quite generous in Mr. Austin to assume that “her Radical

friend” have be prompt she. however, she thank he in her heart

for the calm he have give she. to be able to imagine Nevil Beauchamp

intellectually erratic be a tonic satisfaction to the proud young

lady, ashamed of a bondage that the bracing and pointing of her

critical power help she to forget. she have always prefer the

society of man of Mr. Austin’s age. how old be he? her father would

know. and why be he unmarried? a light frost have settle on the hair

about his temple; his forehead be lightly wrinkle; but his mouth and

smile, and his eye, be lively as a young man’s, with more in they.

his age must be something less than fifty. o for peace! she sigh.

when he step into his carriage, and stand up in it to wave adieu to

she, she think his face and figure a perfect example of an english

gentleman in his prime.



Captain Baskelett request the favour of five minute of conversation

with Miss Halkett before he follow Mr. Austin, on his way to

Steynham.



she return from that colloquy to her father and Mr. Tuckham. the

colonel look straight in her face, with an elevation of the brow. to

these point of interrogation she answer with a placid fall of her

eyelid. he sound a note of approbation in his throat.



all the company having depart, Mr. Tuckham for the first time speak

of his interview with his kinsman Beauchamp. yesterday evening he have

slur it, as if he have nothing to relate, except the finding of an

old schoolfellow at Dr. Shrapnel’s name Lydiard, a man of ability fool

enough to have turn author on no income. but that which have appear

to Miss Halkett a want of observancy, become attributable to depth of

character on its be clear that he have wait for the departure of

the transient guest of the house, to pour forth his impression

without hold up his kinsman to public scorn. he consider shrapnel

mad and Beauchamp mad. no such grotesque old monster as Dr. Shrapnel

have he see in the course of his travel. he have never listen to a

madman run loose who be at all up to Beauchamp. at a loss for

word to paint he, he say: “beauchamp seem to have a head like a

firework manufactory, he’s perfectly pyrocephalic.” for an example of

Dr. Shrapnel’s talk: “I happen,” say Mr. Tuckham, “casually, mean

no harm, and not suppose I be throw a lighted match on powder, to

mention the word Providence. I find myself immediately confront by

Shrapnel—overtop, I should say. he be a lank giant of about seven

foot in height; the kind of show man that use to go about in caravan

over the country; and he begin rock over I like a poplar in a gale,

and cry out: ‘stay there! away with that! providence? can you set a

thought on Providence, not seek to propitiate it? and have you not

there the damn proof that you be at the foot of an Idol?’—The old

idea about a special providence, I suppose. these fellow have nothing

new but their trimming. and he go on with: ‘ay, invisible,’ and his

arm chop, ‘but an Idol! an Idol!’—I be to think of ‘nought but

law.’ he admit there might be one above the law. ‘to realize he

be to fry the brain in their pan,’ say he, and strike his forehead—a

slap: and off he walk down the garden, with his hand at his

coat-tail. I venture to say it may be take for a proof of incipient

insanity to care to hear such a fellow twice. and Beauchamp hold he

up for a sage and a prophet!”



“he be a very dangerous dog,” say Colonel Halkett.



“the good of it be—and I take this for the strong possible proof

that Beauchamp be mad—shrapnel stand for an _advocate of morality_

against he. I’ll speak of it....”



Mr. Tuckham nod to the colonel, who say: “speak out. my daughter

have be educate for a woman of the world.”



“well, sir, it’s nothing to offend a young lady’s ear. beauchamp be

for socially enfranchise the sex—that be all. quite enough. not a

whit politically. love be to be the test: and if a lady cease to love

her husband... if she set her fancy elsewhere, she’s bind to leave

he. the law be tyrannical, our objection be cowardly. well, this

Dr. Shrapnel harangue about society; and man as well as woman be to

sacrifice their passion _on that altar_. if he could burlesque himself

it would be in come out as a cleric—the old Pagan!”



“do he convince Captain Beauchamp?” the colonel ask, manifestly for

his daughter to hear the reply; which be: “oh dear, no!”



“be you able to gather from Captain Beauchamp’s remark whether he be

much disappointed by the result of the election?” say Cecilia.



Mr. Tuckham could tell she only that Captain Beauchamp be incense

against an elector name Tomlinson for withdraw a promise vote on

account of lie rumour, and elate by the conquest of a Mr.

Carpendike, who be reckon a tough one to drag by the neck. “the only

sane people in the house be a Miss Denham and the cook: I lunch

there,” Mr. Tuckham nod approvingly. “Lydiard must be mad. what he’s

waste his time there for I cann’t guess. he say he’s engage there in

write a prefatory essay to a new publication of Harry Denham’s

poem—whoever that may be. and why waste it there? I don’t like it.

he ought to be earn his bread. he’ll be sure to be borrow money

by-and-by. we’ve get ten thousand too many fellow write already, and

they’ve see a few inch of the world, on the continent! he can write.

but it’s all unproductive—dead weight on the country, these fellow

with their writing! he say Beauchamp’s praise of Miss Denham be quite

deserve. he tell I, that at great peril to herself—and she nearly

have her arm break by a stone he save Shrapnel from rough usage on the

election-day.”



“Hum!” Colonel Halkett grunt significantly.



“so I think,” Mr. Tuckham respond. “one don’t want the man to be

hurt, but he ought to be put down in some way. my belief be he’s a

fire-worshipper. I warrant I would extinguish he if he come before I.

he’s an incendiary, at any rate.”



“do you think,” say Cecilia, “that Captain Beauchamp be now satisfy

with his experience of politic?”



“dear I, no,” say Mr. Tuckham. “it’s the opening of a campaign. he’s

off to the North, after he have be to Sussex and Bucks. he’s to be at

it all his life. one thing he show common sense in. if I hear he

once I hear he say half-a-dozen time, that he must have money:—‘_I

must have money!_’ and so he must if he’s to head the Radicals. he

want to start a newspaper! be he likely to get money from his uncle

Romfrey?”



“not for his present plan of campaign.” Colonel Halkett enunciate the

military word sarcastically. “let’s hope he willn’t get money.”



“he say he must have it.”



“who be to stand and deliver, then?”



“I don’t know; I only repeat what he say: unless he have an eye on my

Aunt Beauchamp; and I doubt his luck there, if he want money for

political campaigning.”



“money!” Colonel Halkett ejaculate.



that word too be in the heart of the heiress.



Nevil must have money! could he have say it? ordinary man might say or

think it inoffensively; Captain Baskelett, for instance: but not Nevil

Beauchamp.



Captain Baskelett, as she have convey the information to her father

for his comfort in the dumb domestic language familiar between they on

these occasion, have propose to she unavailingly. italian and English

gentleman be in the list of her reject suitor: and hitherto she

have see they come and go, one might say, from a watchtower in the

sky. none of they be the ideal she wait for: what their feeling

be, their wish, their aim, she have not reflect on. they dot

the landscape beneath the unassailable height, busy after their

fashion, somewhat quaint, much like the pigmy husbandman in the field

be to the giant’s daughter, who have more curiosity than Cecilia. but

Nevil Beauchamp have compel she to quit her lofty station, pull she

low as the littlest of woman that throb and flush at one man’s

footstep: and be well able to read the nature and aspiration of

Captain Baskelett, it be with the knowledge of she having be

propose to as heiress of a great fortune that she chance to hear of

Nevil’s resolve to have money. if he do say it! and be anything

likeli? be anything unlikelier? his foreign love deny to he, why,

now he devote himself to money: money—the last consideration of a man

so single-mindedly generous as he! but he must have money to pursue his

contest! but would he forfeit the truth in he for money for any

purpose?



the debate on this question grow as incessant as the thought of he.

be it not to be suppose that the madness of the pursuit of his

political chimaera might change his character?



she hope he would not come to Mount Laurels, think she should

esteem he less if he do; know that her defence of he, on her own

behalf, against herself, depend now on an esteem lodge perhaps in

her wilfulness. yet if he do not come, what an Arctic world!



he come on a November afternoon when the wood glow, and no sun. the

day be narrow in mist from earth to heaven: a moveless and

possess mist. it leave space overhead for one wreath of high cloud

mix with touch of wash red upon moist blue, still as the mist,

insensibly pass into it. wet webs cross the grass, chill in the

feeble light. the last flower of the garden bow to decay. dead

leave, red and brown and spot yellow, fall straight around the

stem of tree, lie thick. the glow be universal, and the chill.



Cecilia sit sketch the scene at a window of her study, on the level

of the drawing-room, and he stand by outside till she see he. he

greet she through the glass, then go round to the hall door, give

her time to recover, if only her heart have be less shaken.



their meeting be like the feature of the day she set her brush to

picture: characteristic of a season rather than cheerless in tone,

though it breathe little cheer. be there not a pleasure in

contemplating that which be characteristic? her unfinished sketch

recall he after he have go: he live in it, to startle she again,

and bid her heart gallop and her cheek burn. the question occur to

she: may not one love, not crave to be belove? such a love do not

sap our pride, but support it; increase rather than diminish our

noble self-esteem. to attain such a love the martyr writhe up to the

crown of saint. for a while Cecilia revel in the thought that she

could love in this most saint-like manner. how they flee, the sordid

idea of he which accuse he of the world’s one passion, and be

transfer to her own bosom in reproach that she should have imagine

they exist in his! he talk simply and sweetly of his defeat, of

time waste away from the canvass, of loss of money: and he have little

to spare, he say. the water-colour drawing interested he. he say he

envy she that power of isolation, and the eye for beauty in every

season. she open a portfolio of Mr. Tuckham’s water-colour drawing

in every clime; scene of Europe, Asia, and the Americas; and he be to

be excuse for not care to look through they. his remark, that they

seem hard and dog, be not so unjust, she think, smile to

think of the critic criticize. his wonderment that a young man like

his lancastrian cousin should be “an unmitigated Tory” be perhaps

natural.



Cecilia say, “yet I cannot discern in he a veneration for

aristocracy.” “that’s not want for modern Toryism,” say Nevil. “one

may venerate old family when they show the blood of the founder, and

be not dead wood. I do. and I believe the blood of the founder, though

the man may have be a savage and a robber, have in his day fine

element in it than be common. but let I say at a meeting that I

respect true aristocracy, I hear a growl and a hiss beginning: why?

don’t judge they hastily: because the people have see the aristocracy

oppose to the cause that be weak, and only submit to it when it

command they to resist at their peril; cling to tradition, and

not anywhere stand for humanity: much more a herd than the people

themselves. ah! well, we willn’t talk of it now. I say that be no

aristocracy, if it do not head the people in virtue—military,

political, national: I mean the quality require by the time for

leadership. I willn’t bother you with my idea now. I love to see you

paint-brush in hand.”



her brush tremble on the illumination of a scarlet maple. “in this

country we be not originally make free and equal by decree, Nevil.”



“no,” say he, “and I cast no blame on our farth ancestor.”



it strike she that this might be an outline of a reply to Mr. Austin.



“so you have be think over it?” he ask.



“not to conclusion,” she say, try to retain in her mind the

evanescent suggestiveness of his previous remark, and vex to find

herself upon nothing but a devious phosphorescent trail there.



her forehead betray the unwonted mental action. he cry out for

pardon. “what right have I to bother you? I see it annoy you. the

truth be, I come for peace. I think of you when they talk of english

home.”



she feel then that he be compare her home with another, a foreign

home. after he have go she feel that there have be a comparison of

two person. she remember one of his observation: “few woman seem to

have courage”; when his look at she be for an instant one of scrutiny

or calculation. under a look like that we perceive that we be be

weigh. she have no clue to tell she what it signify.



glorious and solely glorious love, that have rise above emotion, quite

independent of craving! that be to be the bird of upper air, poise on

his wing. it be a home in the sky. Cecilia take possession of it

systematically, not question whether it would last; like one who be

too enamoured of the habitation to object to be a tenant-at-will. if it

be cold, it be in recompense immeasurably lofty, a star-girdle

place; and dwell in it she could avow to herself the secret which

be now work self-deception, and still preserve her pride unwounde.

her womanly pride, she would have say in vindication of it: but

Cecilia Halkett’s pride go far beyond the merely womanly.



thus she be assist to endure a journey down to Wales, where Nevil

would surely not be. she pass a winter without see he. she

return to Mount Laurels from London at Easter, and go on a visit to

Steynham, and back to London, have sight of he nowhere, still firm

in the thought that she love ethereally, to bless, forgive, direct,

encourage, pray for he, impersonally. she read certain speech

deliver by Nevil at assembly of Liberals or Radicals, which be

report in paper in the easy irony of the style of here and there a

sentence, here and there a summary: salient quotation intersperse

with run abstract: a style terrible to friend of the speaker so

report, overwhelming if they differ in opinion: yet her charity be a

match for it. she be oblige to have recourse to charity, it should be

observe. her father draw her attention to the spectacle of R. C. S.

Nevil Beauchamp, Commander R.N., fight those reporter with letter

in the newspaper, and the dry editorial comment flank by three star

on the left. he be shocked to see a gentleman write such letter to

the paper. “but one thing hang on another,” say he.



“but you seem angry with Nevil, papa,” say she.



“I do hate a turbulent, restless fellow, my dear,” the colonel burst

out.



“Papa, he have really be unfairly report.”



Cecilia lay three privately-print full report of Commander

Beauchamp’s speech (very carefully correct by he) before her

father.



he suffer his eye to run down a page. “be it possible you read

this?—this trash!—dangerous folly, I call it.”



Cecilia’s reply, “in the interest of justice, I do,” be mean to

express her pure impartiality. by a toleration of what be detest we

expose ourselves to the keenness of an adverse mind.



“do he write to you, too?” say the colonel.



she answer: “oh, no; I be not a politician.”



“he seem to have expect you to read those tract of his, though.”



“yes, I think he would convert I if he could,” say Cecilia.



“though you’re not a politician.”



“he rely on the view he deliver in public, rather than on write

to persuade; that be my meaning, papa.”



“very well,” say the colonel, not care to show his anxiety.



Mr. Tuckham dine with they frequently in London. this gentleman

betray his accomplishment one by one. he sketch, and be no

artist; he plant, and be no gardener; he touch the piano neatly,

and be no musician; he sing, and he have no voice. apparently he try

his hand at anything, for the privilege of speak decisively upon all

thing. he accompany the colonel and his daughter on a day’s

expedition to Mrs. Beauchamp, on the Upper Thames, and they agree that

he shine to great advantage in her society. Mrs. Beauchamp say she have

see her great-nephew Nevil, but without a comment on his conduct or

his person; grave silence. reflect on it, Cecilia grow indignant at

the thought that Mr. Tuckham might have be act a sinister part.

Mrs. Beauchamp allude to a newspaper article of her favourite

great-nephew Blackburn, write, Cecilia know through her father, to

controvert some tremendous proposition of Nevil’s. _that_ be write,

Mrs. Beauchamp say. “I be not in the habit of fear a conflict, so

long as we have stout defender. I rather like it,” she say.



the colonel entertain Mrs. Beauchamp, while Mr. Tuckham lead Miss

Halkett over the garden. Cecilia consider that his remark upon Nevil

be insolent.



“seriously, Miss Halkett, to take he at his good, he be a very good

fellow, I don’t doubt; I be tell so; and a capital fellow among man, a

good friend and not a bad boon-fellow, and for that matter, the

smoking-room be a well test than the drawing-room; all he want be

emphatically school—school—school. I have recommend the simple

iteration of that one word in answer to he at his meeting, and the

printing of it as a foot-note to his letter.”



Cecilia’s combative spirit precipitate she to say, “I hear the mob in

it shout Captain Beauchamp down.”



“ay,” say Mr. Tuckham, “it would be set the mob to shout wisely at

last.”



“the mob be a wild beast.”



“then we should hear wisdom come out of the mouth of the wild beast.”



“man have the phrase, ‘fair play.’”



“fair play, I say, be not applicable to a man who deliberately go

about to stir the wild beast. he be laugh at, pluck, hustle, and

rob, by those who deafen he with their ‘plaudits’—their roar. do

you see his advertisement of a great-coat, lose at some rapscallion

gather down in the North, near my part of the country? a great-coat

and a packet of letter. he offer a reward of L10. but that’s honest

robbery compare with the bleeding he’ll get.”



“do you know Mr. Seymour Austin?” Miss Halkett ask he.



“I meet he once at your father’s table. why?”



“I think you would like to listen to he.”



“yes, my fault be not listen enough,” say Mr. Tuckham.



he be capable of receive correction.



her father tell she he be indebted to Mr. Tuckham past payment in

coin, for service render by he on a try occasion among the

miner in Wales during the first spring month. “I dare say he can speak

effectively to miner,” Cecilia say, outvye the contemptuous young

man in superciliousness, but with effort and not with satisfaction.



she leave London in July, two day before her father could be induce to

return to Mount Laurels. Feverish, and strangely subject to caprice

now, she choose the long way round by Sussex, and alight at the

station near Steynham to call on Mrs. Culling, whom she know to be at

the Hall, prepare it for Mr. Romfrey’s occupation. in imitation of

her father she be Rosamund’s fast friend, though she have never quite

realize her position, and do not thoroughly understand she. would it

not please her father to hear that she have choose the tedious route for

the purpose of visit this lady, whose champion he be?



so she go to Steynham, and for hour she hear talk of no one, of

nothing, but her friend Nevil. Cecilia be on her guard against

Rosamund’s defence of his conduct in France. the declaration that there

have be no misbehaviour at all could not be accept; but the news of

Mr. Romfrey’s having instal Nevil in Holdesbury to manage that

property, and of his having moot to her father the question of an

alliance between she and Nevil, be wonderful. rosamund could not say

what answer her father have make: hardly favourable, Cecilia suppose,

since he have not speak of the circumstance to she. but Mr. Romfrey’s

influence with he would certainly be powerful.



it be to be assume, also, that Nevil have be consult by his uncle.

Rosamund say full-heartedly that this alliance have for year be her

life’s desire, and then she let the matter pass, nor do she once loop

at Cecilia searchingly, or seem to wish to probe she. Cecilia disagree

with Rosamund on an insignificant point in relation to something Mr.

Romfrey and Captain Baskelett have do, and, as far as she could

recollect subsequently, there be a packet of letter, or a pocket-book

contain letter of Nevil’s which he have lose, and which have be

forward to Mr. Romfrey; for the pocket-book be originally his, and

his address be print inside. but among these letter be one from

Dr. Shrapnel to Nevil: a letter so horrible that Rosamund frown at

the reminiscence of it, hold it to be too horrible for the quotation

of a sentence. she own she have forget any three consecutive word.

her know dislike of Captain Baskelett, however, be insufficient to

make she see that it be unjustifiable in he to run about London

read it, with comment of the cruell. rosamund’s great

detestation of Dr. Shrapnel blind she to the offence commit by the

man she would otherwise have be very ready to scorn. so small do the

circumstance appear to Cecilia, notwithstanding her gentle opposition

at the time she listen to it, that she never think of mention it

to her father, and only remember it when Captain Baskelett, with Lord

Palmet in his company, present himself at Mount Laurels, and propose

to the colonel to read to he “a letter from that scoundrelly old

shrapnel to Nevil Beauchamp, upon woman, wife, throne, republic,

british loyalty, et cætera,”—an et cætera that roll a series of

tremendous reverberation down the list of all thing hold precious by

freeborn Englishmen.



she would have prevent the reading. but the colonel would have it.



“read on,” say he. “Mr. Romfrey see no harm.”



Captain Baskelett hold up Dr. Shrapnel’s letter to Commander Beauchamp,

at about half a yard’s distance on the level of his chin, as a

big-cheste singer in a concert-room hold his music-scroll.









CHAPTER XXIX.

the EPISTLE of DR. SHRAPNEL to COMMANDER BEAUCHAMP





before we give ear to the recital of Dr. Shrapnel’s letter to his pupil

in politic by the mouth of Captain Baskelett, it be necessary to

defend this gentleman, as he would handsomely have defend himself,

from the charge that he entertain ultimate design in regard to the

really abominable scrawl, which be like a child’s drawing of ocean

with here and there a sail capsize, and excite his disgust almost as

much as do the content his great indignation. he be prepared to read

it, and stand blow out for the task, but it be temporarily too much

for he. “my dear Colonel, look at it, I entreat you,” he say, hand

the letter for exhibition, after fix his eye-glass, and drop it

in repulsion. the common sentiment of mankind be offend by heterodoxy

in mean attire; for there we see the self-convict villain—the

criminal catch in the act; we try it and convict it by instinct

without the ceremony of a jury; and so thoroughly aware of our

promptitude in this respect have our arch-enemy become since his

mediaeval disgrace that his particular advice to his follower be now

to scrupulously copy the world in external; never to appear poorly

clothe, nor to impart deceptive communication in bad handwriting. we

can tell black from white, and our sagacity have teach he a lesson.



Colonel Halkett glance at the detestable penmanship. Lord Palmet do

the same, and cry, “why, it’s bad than mine!”



Cecilia have protest against the reading of the letter, and she

decline to look at the writing. she be entreat, adjure to look, in

Captain Baskelett’s peculiarly pursue fashion; a “nay, but you

shall,” that she have be subject to previously, and would have

consent to run like a schoolgirl to escape from.



to resume the defence of he: he be a man incapable of form plot,

because his head would not hold they. he be an impulsive man, who

could impale a character of either sex by narrate fable touch

person of whom he think lightly, and that be do he be devoid

of malice, unless by chance his feeling or his interest be so

aggrieve that his original haphazard impulse be bent to embrace new

circumstance and be the parent of a line of successive impulse, in

the main resembling an extremely far-sighted plot, whereat he gaze

back with fondness, all the while protest sincerely his perfect

innocence of anything of the kind. circumstance will often interwind

with the mood of simply irritated man. in the present instance he

could just perceive what might immediately come of his reading out of

this atrocious epistle wherein Nevil Beauchamp be display the

dangle puppet of a mountebank wire-pulley, infidel, agitator,

leveller, and scoundrel. Cognizant of Mr. Romfrey’s overture to

Colonel Halkett, he trace they to that scheme woman in the house at

Steynham, and he be of opinion that it be a friendly and good thing

to do to let the old colonel and Cissy Halkett know Mr. Nevil through a

bit of his correspondence. this, then, be a matter of business and

duty that furnish an excuse for his go out of his, way to call at

Mount Laurels on the old familiar footing, so as not to alarm the

heiress.



a warrior accustomed to wear the burnish breastplate between London

and Windsor have, we know, more need to withstand than to discharge the

shaft of amorous passion; he be indeed, as an object of beauty,

notoriously compel to be of the fair sex in his tactic, and must

practise the art and whim of nymph to preserve himself: and no doubt

it be the case with the famous Captain Baskelett, in whose mind sweet

lady hold the place that the pensive politician give to the masse,

dreadful in their hatred, almost as dreadful in their affection. but an

heiress be a distinct specie among woman; he hunger for the heiress;

his elevation to Parliament make he regard she as both the ornament

and the prop of his position; and it should be add that his pride,

all the habit of thought of a conqueror of woman, have be shock by

that stupefy rejection of he, which Cecilia have intimate to her

father with the mere lowering of her eyelid. conceive the high

bidder at an auction hear the article announce that it will not have

_he!_ Captain Baskelett talk of it everywhere for a month or so:—the

girl could not know her own mind, for she suit he exactly! and he

request the world to partake of his astonishment. chronicle of the

season in London inform he that he be not the only fellow to whom

the gate be shut. she could hardly be think of Nevil? however,

let the epistle be read. “now for the shrapnel shot,” he nod finally

to Colonel Halkett, expand his bosom, or natural cuirass, as

before-mention, and be vocable above the common pitch:—



“‘MY brave BEAUCHAMP,—On with your mission, and never a summing of

result in hand, nor thirst for _prospect_, nor count upon

harvest; for seed sow in faith day by day be the nightly harvest of

the soul, and with the soul we work. with the soul we see.’”



Captain Baskelett intervene: “Ahem! I beg to observe that this

delectable rubbish be underline by old Nevil’s pencil.” he promise to

do a little roaring whenever it occur, and continue with ghastly

false accentuation, an intermittent sprightliness and depression of

tone in the wrong place.



“‘the soul,’ et cætera. here we be! ‘desire to realize our gain be

akin to the passion of usury; these be trick of the usurer to grasp

his gold in act and imagination. have none of they. work at the

people!’ —_at_ they, remark!—‘Moveless do they seem to you? why, so be

the earth to the sow husbandman, and though we cannot forecast a

reap season, we have in history durable testification that our

season come in the soul of man, yea, as a planet that we have set in

motion, and fast and fast be we spin it, and firm and firmer

shall we set it to regularity of revolution. _that mean

life!_’—Shrapnel roar: you will have Nevil in a minute.—‘Recognize

that now we have bare life; at well for the bulk of man the Saurian

lizard’s broad back soaking and roast in primeval slime; or say, in

the so-call teacher of man, as much of life as prick the frog in

March to stir and yawn, and up on a flaccid leap that roll he over

some three inch near to the ditchwater besought by his instinct.’



“I ask you, do you ever hear? the flaccid frog! but on we go.”



“‘professor, prophet, master, each hitherto have have his creed and

system to offer, good mayhap for the term; and each have put it forth

for the truth everlasting, to drive the dagger to the heart of time,

and put the axe to human growth!—that one circle of wisdom issue of

the experience and need of their day, should act the despot over all

other circle for ever!—so where at first light shone to light the

yawning frog to his wet ditch, there, with the necessitate revolution

of man’s mind in the course of age, _darkness radiate_.’



“that’s old Nevil. upon my honour, I haven’t a notion of what it all

mean, and I don’t believe the old rascal Shrapnel have himself. and

pray be patient, my dear colonel. you will find he practical

presently. I’ll skip, if you tell I to. darkness radiate, do it!



“‘the creed that rise in heaven set below; and where we have an angel

we have claw-foot and fang. ask how that be! the creed be much what it

be when the follower diverge it from the Founder. but humanity be

not _where_ it be when that creed be food and guidance. creed will

not die not fight. we cannot root they up out of we without blood.’



“he threaten blood!—‘Ours, my Beauchamp, be the belief that humanity

advance beyond the limit of creed, be to be tie to none. we

reverence the Master in his teaching; we behold the limit of he in

his creed— and that be not his work. we truly be his disciple, who

see how far it be in he to do service; not they that make of his

creed a strait-jacket for humanity. so, in our prayer we dedicate the

world to God, not call he great for a title, no—show he we know

he great in a limitless world, lord of a truth we tend to, have not

grasp. I say Prayer be good. I counsel it to you again and again: in

joy, in sickness of heart. the infidel will not pray; the creed-slave

pray to the image in his box.’”



“I’ve have enough!” Colonel Halkett ejaculate.



“‘we,’” Captain Baskelett put out his hand for silence with an

ineffable look of entreaty, for here be shrapnel’s hypocrisy in full

bloom: “‘we make prayer a part of we, pray for no gift, no

intervention; through the faith in prayer open the soul to the

undiscerned. and take this, my Beauchamp, for the good in prayer, that

it make we repose on the unknown with confidence, make we flexible to

change, make we ready for revolution—for life, then! he who have the

fountain of prayer in he will not complain of hazard. prayer be the

recognition of law; the soul’s exercise and source of strength; its

thread of conjunction with they. prayer for an object be the cajolery

of an idol; the resource of superstition. there you misread it,

Beauchamp. we that fight the live world must have the universal for

succour of the truth in it. cast forth the soul in prayer, you meet the

effluence of the outer truth, you join with the creative element

give breath to you; and that crust of habit which be the soul’s tomb;

and custom, the soul’s tyrant; and pride, our volcano-peak that sink

we in a crater; and fear, which pluck the feather from the wing of

the soul and sit it naked and shiver in a vault, where the passing

of a common hodman’s foot above sound like the king of terror

coming,—you be free of they, you live in the day and for the future,

by this exercise and discipline of the soul’s faith. I it keep young

everlastingly, like the fountain of...’”



“I say I cannot sit and hear any more of it!” exclaim the colonel,

chafe out of patience.



Lord Palmet say to Miss Halkett: “ben’t it like what we use to

remember of a sermon?”



Cecilia wait for her father to break away, but Captain Baskelett have

undertake to skip, and be murmur in sing-song some of the phrase

that warn he off:



“‘history—Bible of Humanity;... Permanency—enthusiast’s dream—despot’s

aim—clutch of dead man’s finger in live flesh... man animal; man

angel; man root; man wing’:... really, all this be too bad. ah!

here we be: ‘at they with outspeake, Beauchamp!’ here we be,

colonel, and you will tell I whether you think it treasonable or not.

‘at they,’ et cætera: ‘we have sign no convention to respect

their’—he speak of Englishmen, Colonel Halkett—‘their passive

idolatry; a people with whom a mute conformity be as good as worship,

but a word of dissent hold you up to execration; and only for the

freedom win in foregone day their hate would be active. _as we have

they in their present stage_,’—old Nevil’s mark—‘We be not party to

the tacit agreement to fill our mouth and shut our eye. we speak

because it be well they be rouse to lapidate we than souse in their

sty, with none to let they hear they live like swine, crave only not

to be disturb at the trough. the religion of this vast english

middle-class ruling the land be Comfort. it be their central thought;

their idea of necessity; their sole aim. Whatsoever minister to

Comfort, seem to belong to it, pretend to support it, they yield

their passive worship to. Whatsoever alarm it they join to crush.

there you get at their point of unity. they will pay for the security

of Comfort, call it national worship, or national defence, if too

much money be not subtract from the mean of individual comfort: if

too much foresight be not demand for the comfort of their brain.

have at they there. speak. moveless as you find they, they be not yet

all gross clay, and I say again, the true word speak have its chance of

somewhere alight and strike root. look not to that. seed perish

in nature; good man fail. look to the truth in you, and deliver it,

with no afterthought of hope, for hope be dog by dread; we give our

courage as hostage for the fulfilment of what we hope. meditate on that

transaction. Hope be for boy and girl, to whom nature be kind. for

man to hope be to tremble. let prayer—the soul’s overflow, the heart’s

resignation—supplant it...’



“Pardon, colonel; I forget to roar, but old nevil mark all down that

page for encomium,” say Captain Baskelett. “oh! here we be. english

loyalty be the subject. now, pray attend to this, colonel. shrapnel

communicate to Beauchamp that if ten beauchamp be spout over the

country without intermission he might condescend to hope. so on—to

british loyalty. we be, so long as our sovereign be well-conduct

person, and we cannot unseat they—observe; he be eminently explicit,

the old traitor!—we be to submit to the outward form of respect, but

we be frankly to say we be Republicans; he have the impudence to swear

that England be a republican country, and call our thoroughgoing

loyalty—your and mine, colonel—disloyalty. Hark: ‘where king lead, it

be to be suppose they be want. Service be the noble office on

earth, and where king do service let they take the first honour of

the state: but’—hark at this—‘the english middle-class, which have

absorb the upper, and despise, when it be not quake before it, the

low, will have nothing above it but a ricketty ornament like that you

see on a confectioner’s twelfth-cake.’”



“the man deserve hang!” say Colonel Halkett.



“far, my dear colonel, and nevil mark it pretty much throughout:

‘this loyalty smack of a terrible perfidy. pass the lord and squire;

they be old tree, old foundation, or join to they, whether old or

new; they naturally apprehend dislocation when a wind blow, a river

rise, or a man speaks;—that come of age or aping age: their heart

be in their holding! for the loyalty of the rest of the land, it be

the shopkeeper’s loyalty, which be to be compute by the exact annual

sum of his net profit. it be now at high tide. it will last with the

prosperity of our commerce.’—The insolent old vagabond!—‘Let commercial

disaster come on we, and what of the loyalty now pay its hundred

of thousand, and howl down questioner! in a day of bankruptcy,

how much would you bid for the loyalty of a class shiver under

deprivation of luxury, with its God Comfort beggar? ay, my

Beauchamp,’—the most offensive thing to I be that ‘my beauchamp,’ but

old Nevil have evidently give himself up hand and foot to this

ruffian—‘ay, when you reflect that fear of the so-call rabble, i.e.

the people, the unmoneyed class, which know not Comfort, taste not of

luxury, be the main component of their noisy frigid loyalty, and that

the people be not with they but against, and yet that the people might

be win by visible forthright kingly service to a loyalty outdoing

theirs as the sun the moon; ay, that the people verily thirst to love

and reverence; and _that their love be the only love worth have_,

because it be disintereste love, and endure, and take heat in

adversity,—reflect on it and wonder at the inversion of thing! so with

a Church. it live if it be at home with the poor. in the arm of

enrich shopkeeper it rot, go to decay in vestment—vestment!

flake of mummy-wrap for it! or else they use it for one of their

political truncheon—to awe the ignorant masse: I quote they. so. not

much ahead of ancient Egyptians in spirituality or in priestcraft! they

call it statesmanship. o for a word for it! let Palsy and Cunning go to

form a word. _deadmanship_, I call it.’—To quote my uncle the baron,

this be lunatic dribble!—‘Parsons and prince be happy with the homage

of this huge passive fleshpot class. it be enough for they. why not?

the taxis be pay and the tithe. whilst commercial prosperity

last!’”



Colonel Halkett throw his arm aloft.



“‘meanwhile, note this: the people be the Power to come. oppress,

unprotected, abandon; leave to the ebb and flow of the tide of the

market, now take on to work, now cast off to starve, commit to the

shift law of demand and supply, slave of Capital—the white name

for old accursed Mammon: and of all the ranked and black-uniformed host

no pastor to come out of the association of shepherd, and proclaim

before heaven and man the primary claim of their cause; they be, I

say, the power, worth the seduction of by another power not mighty in

England now: and likely in time to set up yet another power not

exist in England now. what if a passive comfortable clergy hand they

over to man on the model of irish pastor, who will succour, console,

enfold, champion they? what if, when they have learn to use their

majority, sick of deception and the endless pulling of interest, they

raise one representative to force the current of action with an

authority as little fictitious as their preponderance of number? the

despot and the priest! there I see _our_ danger, Beauchamp. you and I

and some dozen labour to tie and knot they to manliness. we be few;

they be many and weak. Rome offer they real comfort in return for

their mite in coin, and—poor soul! mite in conscience, many of they.

a Tyrant offer they to be directly their friend. Ask, Beauchamp, why

they should not have comfort for pay as well as the big round—’”

Captain Baskelett stop and lay the letter out for Colonel Halkett

to read an unmentionable word, shamelessly mark by Nevil’s

pencil:—‘_belly-class!_’ ask, too, whether the comfort they wish for be

not approach divine compare with the stagnant fleshliness of that

fat shopkeeper’s Comfort.



“‘warn the people of this. ay, warn the clergy. it be not only the poor

that be catch by ranter. endeavour to make those accommodate

shepherd understand that they stand a chance of lose rich as well as

poor! it should awaken they. the helpless poor and the uneasy rich be

alike open to the seduction of romish priest and intoxicated ranter.

I say so it will be if that band of forty thousand go on slumbering and

nod. they walk in a dream. the flesh be a dream. the soul only be

life.’



“now for you, colonel.



“‘no extension of the army—no! a thousand time no. let India go, then!

good for India that we hold India? ay, good: but not at such a cost as

an extra tax, or compulsory service of our work man. if India be to

be hold for the good of India, throw open India to the civilized

nation, that they help we in a task that overstrain we. at present

India mean utter perversion of the policy of England. Adrift India!

rather than England red-coated. we dissent, Beauchamp! for by-and-by.’



“that be,” Captain Baskelett explain, “by-and-by Shrapnel will have

old Nevil fast enough.”



“be there more of it?” say Colonel Halkett, flap his forehead for

coolness.



“the impudence of this dog in presume to talk about India!—eh,

colonel? only a paragraph or two more: I skip a lot.... ah! here we

be.” Captain Baskelett read to himself and laugh in derision: “he

call our Constitution a compact unsigned by the large number involve

in it. what’s this? ‘a band of dealer in _fleshpottery_.’ do you

detect a gleam of sense? he underscore it. then he come to this”:

Captain Baskelett request Colonel Halkett to read for himself: “the

stench of the trail of Ego in our history.”



the colonel peruse it with an unsavoury expression of his feature,

and jump up.



“oddly, Mr. Romfrey think this rather clever,” say Captain

Baskelett, and read rapidly: “‘trace the course of ego for they: first

the king who conquer and can govern. in his egoism he dub he holy;

his family be of a select blood; he make the crown hereditary—Ego.

Son by son the shame of egoism increase; valour abate; hereditary

Crown, no hereditary quality. the baron rise. they in turn hold

sway, and for their order—Ego. the trader overturn they: each class

ride the class under it while it can. it be ego—ego, the fountain

cry, origin, sole source of war! then death to ego, I say! if those

trader have rule for other than ego, power might have rest with they

on broad basis enough to carry we forward for century. the workman

have ever be too anxious _to be rule_. now come on the workman’s

era. number win in the end: proof of small wisdom in the world.

anyhow, with number there be rough nature’s wisdom and justice. with

number ego be inter-dependent and disperse; it be universalized. yet

these may require corrective. if so, they will have it in a series of

despot and revolution that toss, mix, and bind the class together:

despot, revolution; _pant alternation of the quickened heart of

humanity:_’ mark by our friend Nevil in note of admiration.”



“mad as the writer,” groan Colonel Halkett. “never in my life have I

hear such stuff.”



“stay, colonel; here’s Shrapnel defend Morality and Society,” say

Captain Baskelett.



Colonel Halkett vow he be under no penal law to listen, and would

not; but Captain Baskelett persuade he: “yes, here it be: I give you

my word. apparently old Nevil have be stand up for every man’s

right to run away with... yes, really! I give you my word; and here we

have shrapnel insist on respect for the marriage law. do hear this;

here it be in black and white:—‘Society be our one tangible gain, our

one roofing and floor in a world of most uncertain structure build

on morass. toward the law that support it man hopeful of progress

give their adhesion. if it be martyrdom, what then? let the martyrdom

be. contumacy be animalism. and attend to I,’ say Shrapnel, ‘the

truer the love the readier for sacrifice! a thousand time yes.

Rebellion against Society, and advocacy of Humanity, run counter. tell

I Society be the white sepulchre, that it be blotch, hideous,

hollow: and I say, add not another disfigurement to it; add to the

purification of it. and you, if you answer, what can only one? I say

that be the animal’s answer, and apply also to politic, where the

question, _what can one?_ put in the relapse tone, show the country

decay in the individual. society be the protection of the weak,

therefore a shield of woman, who be our temple of civilization, to be

keep sacred; and he that love a woman will assuredly esteem and pity

her sex, and not drag she down for another example of their frailty.

fight this out within you—!’



but you be right, colonel; we have have sufficient. I shall be get

a democratic orator’s twang, or a crazy parson’s, if I go on much

far. he cover thirty-two page of letter-paper. the conclusion

is:—‘Jenny send you her compliment, respect, and good wish, and

hope she may see you before she go to her friend Clara Sherwin and

the General.’”



“Sherwin? why, General Sherwin’s a perfect gentleman,” Colonel Halkett

interject; and Lord Palmet catch the other name: “Jenny? that’s Miss

Denham, Jenny Denham; an amazingly pretty girl: beautiful thick brown

hair, real hazel eye, and walk like a yacht before the wind.”



“perhaps, colonel, _jenny_ account for the defence of society,” say

Captain Baskelett. “I have no doubt Shrapnel have a scheme for Jenny.

the old communist and socialist!” he fold up the letter: “a curious

composition, be it not, Miss Halkett?”



Cecilia be think that he tempt she to be the apologist of even

such a letter.



“one like to know the bad, and what’s possible,” say the colonel.



after Captain Baskelett have go, Colonel Halkett persist in talk

of the letter, and would have impress on his daughter that the person

to whom the letter be address must be partly responsible for the

content of it. Cecilia put on the argumentative air of a Court of

Equity to discuss the point with he.



“then you defend that letter?” he cry.



oh, no: she do not defend the letter; she think it wicke and

senseless. “but,” say she, “the superior strength of man to woman

seem to I to come from their examine all subject, shrink from

none. at least, I should not condemn Nevil on account of his

correspondence.”



“we shall see,” say her father, sigh rather heavily. “I must have a

talk with Mr. Romfrey about that letter.”









CHAPTER XXX.

the baiting of DR. SHRAPNEL





Captain Baskelett go down from Mount Laurels to Bevisham to arrange

for the giving of a dinner to certain of his chief supporter in the

borough, that they might know he be not oblige literally to sit in

Parliament in order to pay a close attention to their affair. he have

not distinguish himself by a speech during the session, but he have

store a political precept or two in his memory, and, as he tell Lord

Palmet, he think a dinner be due to his villain. “the way to manage

your Englishman, Palmet, be to dine he.” as the dinner would decidedly

be dull, he insist on have Lord Palmet’s company.



they cross over to the yacht island, where portion of the letter

of Commander Beauchamp’s correspondent be read at the Club, under the

verandah, and the question put, whether a man who hold those opinion

have a right to wear his uniform.



the letter be transmit to Steynham in time to be consign to the

pocket-book before Beauchamp arrive there on one of his rare visit.

Mr. Romfrey hand he the pocketbook with the frank declaration that

he have read Shrapnel’s letter. “all be fair in war, Sir!” Beauchamp

quote he ambiguously.



the thief have amuse Mr. Romfrey by their scrupulous honesty in

return what be useless to they, while reserve the coat: but

subsequently see the advertized reward, they have write to claim

it; and, accord to Rosamund Culling, he have be so tickled that he

have deign to reply to they, very briefly, but very comically.



speak of the matter with she, Beauchamp say (so greatly be he

infatuate with the dangerous man) that the reading of a letter of Dr.

Shrapnel’s could do nothing but good to any reflect human creature:

he admit that as the lose pocket-book be address to Mr. Romfrey,

it might have be by mistake that he have open it, and read the

topmost letter lie open. but he press Rosamund to say whether that

one only have be read.



“only Dr. Shrapnel’s letter,” Rosamund affirm. “the letter from

Normandy be untouched by he.”



“untouched by anybody?”



“unopened, Nevil. you look incredulous.”



“not if I have your word, ma’am.”



he glance somewhat contemptuously at his uncle Everard’s anachronistic

notion of what be fair in war.



to prove to he Mr. Romfrey’s affectionate interest in his fortune,

Rosamund mention the overture which have be make to Colonel Halkett

for a nuptial alliance between the two house; and she say: “your

uncle Everard be completely win by your manly way of take his

opposition to you in Bevisham. he pay for Captain Baskelett, but you

and your fortune be near his heart, Nevil.”



Beauchamp hang silent. his first remark be, “yes, I want money. I must

have money.” by degree he seem to warm to some sense of gratitude.

“it be kind of the baron,” he say.



“he have a great affection for you, Nevil, though you know he spare no

one who choose to be antagonistic. all that be over. but do you not

second he, Nevil? you admire she? you be not adverse?”



Beauchamp signify the horrid intermixture of yes and no, frown in

pain of mind, and walk up and down. “there’s no live woman I admire

so much.”



“she have refuse the high match.”



“I hold she in every way incomparable.”



“she try to understand your political idea, if she cannot quite

sympathize with they, Nevil. and consider how hard it be for a young

English lady, breed in refinement, to understand such thing.”



“yes,” Beauchamp nod; yes. well, more’s the pity for I!”



“ah! Nevil, that fatal Renée!”



“Ma’am, I acquit you of any suspicion of your having read her letter in

this pocket-book. she wish I to marry. you would have see it

write here. she wish it.”



“fly, clipped wing!” murmur Rosamund, and purposely send a buzz into

her ear to shut out his extravagant talk of Renée’s friendly wish.



“how be it you woman will not believe in the sincerity of a woman!” he

exclaim.



“Nevil, I be not allude to the damage do to your election.”



“to my candidature, ma’am. you mean those rumour, those lie of the

enemy. tell I how I could suppose you be allude to they. you bring

they forward now to justify your charge of ‘fatal’ against she. she have

one fault; she want courage; she have none other, not one that be not

excuseable. we willn’t speak of France. what do her father say?”



“Colonel Halkett? I do not know. he and his daughter come here next

week, and the colonel will expect to meet you here. that do not look

like so positive an objection to you?”



“to I personally, no,” say Beauchamp. “but Mr. Romfrey have not tell

I that I be to meet they.”



“perhaps he have not think it worth while. it be not his way. he have

ask you to come. you and Miss Halkett will be leave to yourself. she

father assure Mr. Romfrey that he should not go beyond advise she.

his advice might not be exactly favourable to you at present, but if

you sue and she accept—and she would, I be convinced she would; she

be here with I, talk of you a whole afternoon, and I have

eye—then he would not oppose the match, and then I should see you

settle, the husband of the handsome wife and rich heiress in

England.”



a vision of Cecilia swam before he, gracious in stateliness.



two week back Renée’s expression of a wish that he would marry have

seem to he an idle sentence in a letter breathing of her own

intolerable situation. the marquis have be strike down by illness.

what if she be to be soon suddenly free? but Renée could not be

look to freedom, otherwise she never would have write the wish for

he to marry. she write perhaps hear temptation whisper; perhaps

wish to save herself and he by the aid of a tie that would bring

his honour into play and fix his loyalty. he remember Dr. Shrapnel’s

write word: “_rebellion against society and advocacy of humanity run

counter._” they have a strong effect on he than when he be ignorant

of his uncle Everard’s plan to match he with Cecilia. he take refuge

from they in the image of that beautiful desolate Renée, bear to be

belove, now waste, bad than trodden under foot—pervert; a life

that look to he for direction and resuscitation. she be as good as

dead in her marriage. it be impossible for he ever to think of Renée

without the surprising thrill of his enchantment with she, and tender

pity that draw she close to he by darken her brightness.



still a man may love his wife. a wife like Cecilia be not to be

imagine coldly. let the knot once be tie, it would not be regret,

could not be; hers be a character, and her a smile, firmly assure

he of that.



he tell Mr. Romfrey that he should be glad to meet Colonel Halkett and

Cecilia. business call he to Holdesbury. thence he betake himself to

Dr. Shrapnel’s cottage to say farewell to Jenny Denham previous to she

departure for Switzerland with her friend Clara Sherwin. she have never

see a snow-mountain, and it be pleasant to he to observe in her

eye, which he have know weighing and balance intellectual question

more than he quite like, a childlike effort to conjure in imagination

the glory of the Alps. she appear very happy, only a little anxious

about leave Dr. Shrapnel with no one to take care of he for a whole

month. Beauchamp promise he would run over to he from Holdesbury,

only an hour by rail, as often as he could. he envy she the sight of

the Alps, he say, and try to give she an idea of they, from which he

break off to boast of a famous little Jersey bull that he have win from

a rival, an American, deeply in love with the bull; cut he out by

telegraph by just five minute. the latter have examine the bull in the

island and have pass on to Paris, not suspect there would be haste

to sell he. Beauchamp, see the bull advertize, take he on trust,

gallop to the near telegraph station forthwith, and so obtain

possession of he; and the bull be now ship on the voyage. but for

this precious bull, however, and other business, he would have be

able to spend almost the entire month with Dr. Shrapnel, he say

regretfully. Miss Denham on the contrary do not regret his active

occupation. the story of his rush from the breakfast-table to the

stable, and gallop away to the station, while the American Quaker

gentleman soberly pace down a street in Paris on the same errand, in

invisible rivalry, touch her risible fancy. she be especially

pleased to think of he live in harmony with his uncle—that strange,

lofty, powerful man, who by plot or by violence punish opposition to

his will, but who must be kind at heart, as well as forethoughtful of

his nephew’s good; the assurance of it be, that when the conflict

be at an end he have immediately instal he as manager of one of his

estate, to give his energy play and make he practically useful.



the day before she leave home be pass by the three in botanizing,

some mile distant from Bevisham, over sand country, marsh and meadow;

Dr. Shrapnel, deep in the science, on one side of she, and Beauchamp,

require instruction in the name and property of every plant and

simple, on the other. it be a day of summer sweetness, gentle

laughter, conversation, and the happy homeliness. the politician

utter barely a syllable of politic. the dinner basket be empty

heartily to make way for herb and flower, and at night the expedition

homeward be crown with star along a road refresh by mid-day

thunder-shower and smelling of the rain in the dust, past meadow

keenly scent, garden give out their innermost balm and odour.

late at night they drink tea in Jenny’s own garden. they separate a

little after two in the morning, when the fade western light still lay

warm on a bow of sky, and on the level of the East it quicken. Jenny

feel sure she should long for that yesterday when she be among foreign

scene, even among high Alps—those mysterious eminence which seem in

her imagination to know of heaven and have the dawn of a new life for

she beyond their peak.



her last word when step into the railway carriage be to

Beauchamp: “_will_ you take care of he?” she fling her arm round Dr.

Shrapnel’s neck, and gaze at he under troubled eyelid which seem

to be pass in review every vision of possible harm that might come

to he during her absence; and so she continue gaze, and at no one

but Dr. Shrapnel until the bend of the line cut he from her sight.

Beauchamp be a very secondary person on that occasion, and he be

unused to be so in the society of woman—unused to find himself

entirely eclipse by their interest in another. he speculate on it,

wonder at her concentrated fervency; for he have not suppose she to

possess much warmth.



after she be fairly off on her journey, Dr. Shrapnel mention to

Beauchamp a case of a Steynham poacher, whom he have think it his duty

to supply with mean of defence. it be a common poaching case.



Beauchamp be not surprised that Mr. Romfrey and Dr. Shrapnel should

come to a collision; the marvel be that it have never occur before,

and Beauchamp say at once: “oh, my uncle Mr. Romfrey would rather see

they stand their ground than not.” he be disposed to think well of his

uncle. the Jersey bull call he away to Holdesbury.



Captain Baskelett hear of this poaching case at Steynham, where he have

to appear in person when he be in want of cheque, and the Bevisham

dinner furnish an excuse for demand one. he would have prefer a

positive sum annually. Mr. Romfrey, however, though he write his

cheque out like the lord he be by nature, exact the request for

they; a system that keep the gallant gentleman on his good behaviour,

probably at a low cost than the regular stipend. in hand the

cheque to Cecil Baskelett, Mr. Romfrey speak of a poacher, of an old

poach family call the Dicketts, who want punishment and be to

have it, but Mr. Romfrey’s local lawyer have inform he that the man

Shrapnel be, as usual, supply the mean of defence. for his own

part, Mr. Romfrey say, he have no objection to one rascal’s backing

another, and Shrapnel might hit his hard, only perhaps nevil might

somehow get mix up in it, and Nevil be go on quietly now—he have

in fact just do capitally in lasso with a shot of the telegraph a

splendid little Jersey bull that a Yankee be after: and on the whole

it be good to try to keep he quiet, for he be mad about that man

Shrapnel; Shrapnel be his joss: and if legal knock come of this

business Nevil might be think of interfere: “or he and I may be

get to exchange a lot of shindy letter,” Mr. Romfrey say. “tell

he I take shrapnel just like any other man, and don’t want to hear

apology, and I don’t mix he up in it. tell he if he like to have

an explanation from I, I’ll give it he when he come here. you can

run over to Holdesbury the morning after your dinner.”



Captain Baskelett say he would go. he be pleased with his cheque at

the time, but hear subsequently that Nevil be come to Steynham to

meet Colonel Halkett and his daughter, he become displeased,

consider it a very silly commission. the more he think of it the

more ridiculous and unworthy it appear. he ask himself and Lord

Palmet also why he should have to go to Nevil at Holdesbury to tell he

of circumstance that he would hear of two or three day later at

Steynham. there be no sense in it. the only conclusion for he be

that the scheme woman cull have determine to bring down every man

concerned in the Bevisham election, and particularly Mr. Romfrey, on

his knee before Nevil. Holdesbury have be place at his disposal, and

the use of the house in London, which latter would have be extremely

serviceable to Cecil as a place of dinner to the Parliament of Great

Britain in lieu of the speech-making generally expect of member, and

not so effectively perform. one would think the baron have grow

afraid of old Nevil! he have speak as if he be.



Cecil rail unreservedly to Lord Palmet against that woman “mistress

culling,” as it please he to term she, and who could be offend by

his call she so? his fine wit revel in bestow title that be

at once battery direct upon person he hate, and entrenchment for

himself.



at four o’clock on a sultry afternoon he sit at table with his Bevisham

supporter, and pledge they correspondingly in english hotel

champagne, sherry and claret. at seven he be rid of they, but parch

and heat, as he deserve to be, he own, for drink the poison. it

would be a good subject for Parliament if he could get it up, he

reflect.



“and now,” say he to Palmet, “we might be cross over to the Club if

I haven’t to go about that stupid business to Holdesbury to-morrow

morning. we shall miss the race, or, at least, the start.”



the idea strike he: “ten to one old Nevil’s with shrapnel,” and no

idea could be more natural.



“we’ll call on Shrapnel,” say Palmet. “we shall see Jenny Denham. he

give she out as his niece. whatever she be she’s a brimming little

beauty. I assure you, Bask, you seldom see so pretty a girl.”



Wine, which have direct man’s footstep upon more marvellous

adventure, take they to a chemist’s shop for a cool effervescent

draught, and thence through the town to the address, furnish to they

by the chemist, of Dr. Shrapnel on the common.



bad wine, which be responsible for the fate of half the dismal body

hang from tree, welter by rock, grovel and bleach round

the bedabbled mouth of the poet’s Cave of Despair, have render Captain

Baskelett’s temper extremely irascible; so when he catch sight of Dr.

shrapnel wall in his garden, and perceive he of a giant’s height,

his eye fasten on the writer of the abominable letter with an

exultation peculiar to man have a devil inside they that kick to be

out. the sun be low, blaze among the thick branch of the pollard

forest tree, and through spray of hawthorn. Dr. Shrapnel stop,

face the visible master of man, at the end of his walk before he

turn his back to continue the exercise and some discourse he be

hold aloud either to the heaven or band of invisible man.



“Ahem, Dr. Shrapnel!” he be accost twice, the second time

imperiously.



he see two gentleman outside the garden-hedge.



“I speak, sir,” say Captain Baskelett.



“I hear you now, sir,” say the doctor, walk in a parallel line with

they.



“I desire to know, sir, if you be Dr. Shrapnel?”



“I be.”



they arrive at the garden-gate.



“you have a charming garden, Dr. Shrapnel,” say Lord Palmet, very

affably and loudly, with a steady observation of the cottage window.



Dr. Shrapnel fling the gate open.



Lord Palmet raise his hat and enter, cry loudly, “a very charming

garden, upon my word!”



Captain Baskelett follow he, bow stiffly.



“I be,” he say, “Captain Beauchamp’s cousin. I be Captain Baskelett,

one of the Members for the borough.”



the doctor say, “ah.”



“I wish to see Captain Beauchamp, sir. he be absent?”



“I shall have he here shortly, sir.”



“oh, you will have he!” Cecil pause.



“admirable rose!” exclaim Lord Palmet.



“you _have_ he, I think,” say Cecil, “if what we hear be correct. I

wish to know, sir, whether the case you be conduct against his

uncle be one you have communicate to Captain Beauchamp. I repeat, I be

here to inquire if he be privy to it. you may hold family tie in

contempt—now, sir! I request you abstain from provocation with I.”



Dr. Shrapnel have raise his head, with something of the rush of a

rocket, from the stoop posture to listen, and his frown of

non-intelligence might be interpret as the come on of the fury

radical be prone to, by a gentleman who believe in their constant

disposition to explode.



Cecil make play with a pacify hand. “we shall arrive at no

understanding unless you be good enough to be perfectly calm. I

repeat, my cousin Captain Beauchamp be more or less at variance with

his family, owe to these doctrine of your, and your extraordinary

Michael-Scott-the-wizard kind of spell you seem to have cast upon his

common sense as a man of the world. _you have he_, as you say. I do

not dispute it. I have no doubt you have he fast. but here be a case

demand a certain respect for decency. pray, if I may ask you, be

still, be quiet, and hear I out if you can. I be accustomed to explain

myself to the comprehension of most man who be at large, and I tell

you candidly I be not to be deceive or divert from my path by a show

of ignorance.”



“what be your immediate object, sir?” say Dr. Shrapnel, chagrin by

the mystification within he, and a fear that his patience be go.



“exactly,” Cecil nod. he be acute enough to see that he have

establish the happy commencement of fretfulness in the victim, which

be equivalent to a hook well strike in the mouth of your fish, and with

an angler’s joy he prepare to play his man. “exactly. I have state

it. and you ask I. but I really must decline to run over the whole

ground again for you. I be here to fulfil a duty to my family; a highly

disagreeable one to I. I may fail, like the lady who come here

previous to the Election, for the result of which I be assure I ought

to thank your eminently disintereste service. I do. you recollect a

lady call on you?”



Dr. Shrapnel consult his memory. “I think I have a recollection of

some lady call.”



“oh! you think you have a recollection of some lady call.”



“do you mean a lady connect with Captain Beauchamp?”



“a lady connect with Captain Beauchamp. you be not aware of the

situation of the lady?”



“if I remember, she be a kind of confidential housekeeper, some one

say, to Captain Beauchamp’s uncle.”



“a kind of confidential housekeeper! she be recognize in our family as

a lady, sir. I can hardly expect well treatment at your hand than

she meet with, but I do positively request you to keep your temper

whilst I be explain my business to you. now, sir! what now?”



a trifling breeze will set the tall tree bending, and Dr. Shrapnel do

indeed appear to display the agitation of a full-drive storm when he

be but harass and vex.



“will you mention your business concisely, if you please?” he say.



“precisely; it be my endeavour. I suppose I have do so. to be frank,

I would advise you to summon a member of your household, wife,

daughter, housekeeper, any one you like, to whom you may appeal, and I

too, whenever your recollection be at fault.”



“I be competent,” say the doctor.



“but in justice to you,” urge Cecil considerately.



Dr. Shrapnel smooth his chin hastily. “have you do?”



“believe I, the instant I have an answer to my question, I have do.”



“name your question.”



“very well, sir. now mark, I will be plain with you. there be no escape

for you from this. you destroy my cousin’s professional prospect—I

request you to listen—you blast his career in the navy; it be

consider promising. he be a gallant officer and a smart seaman. very

well. you set he up as a politician, to be knock down, to a dead

certainty. you set he against his class; you embroil he with his

family ...”



“on all those point,” interpose Dr. Shrapnel, after dash a hand to

straighten his forelock; but Cecil vehemently entreat he to control

his temper.



“I say you embroil he with his family, you cause he to be in

everlaste altercation with his uncle Mr. Romfrey, materially to his

personal detriment; and the question of his family be one that every

man of sense would apprehend on the spot; for we, you should know,

have, sir, an opinion of Captain Beauchamp’s talent and ability

forbid we to think he could possibly be the total simpleton you

make he appear, unless to the seduction of your political

instruction, other seduction be add.... you apprehend I, I be

sure.”



“I don’t,” cry the doctor, descend from his height and swinge

about forlornly.



“oh! yes, you do; you do indeed, you cannot avoid it; you quite

apprehend I; it be admit that you take my meaning: I insist on

that. I have nothing to say but what be complimentary of the young

lady, whoever she may turn out to be; bewitch, no doubt; and to

speak frankly, Dr. Shrapnel, I, and I be pretty certain every honest

man would think with I, I take it to be ten time more creditable to

my cousin Captain Beauchamp that he should be under a lady’s influence

than under your. come, sir! I ask you. you must confess that a gallant

officer and great admirer of the sex do not look such a donkey if he

be lead in silken string by a beautiful creature. and mark—stop! mark

this, Dr. Shrapnel: I say, to the lady we can all excuse a good deal,

and at the same time you be to be congratulate on first-rate

diplomacy in employ so charming an agent. I wish, I really wish you

do it generally, I assure you: only, mark this—I do beg you to contain

yourself for a minute, if possible—I say, my cousin Captain Beauchamp

be fair game to hunt, and there be no law to prevent the chase, only

you must not expect we to be quiet spectator of your sport; and we

have, I say, undoubtedly a right to lay the case before the lady, and

induce she to be a peace-agent in the family if we can. very well.”



“this garden be redolent of a lady’s hand,” sigh Palmet, poetical in

his dejection.



“have you take too much wine, gentleman?” say Dr. Shrapnel.



Cecil put this impertinence aside with a graceful sweep of his finger.

“you attempt to elude I, sir.”



“not I! you mention some lady.”



“exactly. a young lady.”



“what be the name of the lady?”



“oh! you ask the name of the lady. and I too. what be it? I have hear

two or three name.”



“then you have hear villanie.”



“Denham, Jenny Denham, Miss Jenny Denham,” say Palmet, rejoice at the

opportunity of trumpet her name so that she should not fail to hear

it.



“I stake my reputation I have hear she call Shrapnel—Miss Shrapnel,”

say Cecil.



the doctor glance hastily from one to the other of his visitor. “the

young lady be my ward; I be her guardian,” he say.



Cecil purse his mouth. “I have hear she call your niece.”



“niece—ward; she be a lady by birth and education, in manner,

accomplishment, and character; and she be under my protection,” cry

Dr. Shrapnel.



Cecil bow. “so you be for gentle birth? I forget you be for

morality too, and for pray; exactly; I recollect. but now let I

tell you, entirely with the object of conciliation, my particular

desire be to see the young lady, in your presence of course, and

endeavour to persuade she, as I have very little doubt I shall do,

assume that you give I fair play, to exercise her influence, on this

occasion contrary to your, and save my cousin Captain Beauchamp from a

fresh misunderstanding with his uncle Mr. Romfrey. now, sir; now,

there!”



“you will not see Miss Denham with my sanction ever,” say Dr.

Shrapnel.



“oh! then I perceive your policy. Mark, sir, my assumption be that the

young lady would, on hear my representation, exert herself to heal

the breach between Captain Beauchamp and his family. you stand in the

way. you treat I as you treat the lady who come here formerly to

wrest your dupe from your clutch. if I mistake not, she see the young

lady you acknowledge to be your ward.”



Dr. Shrapnel flash back: “I acknowledge? mercy and justice! be there

no peace with the man? you walk here to I, I cann’t yet guess why, from

a town where I have enemy, and every scandal fly touch I and

mine; and you—” he stop short to master his anger. he subdue it so

far as to cloak it in an attempt to speak reasoningly, as angry man

sometimes deceive themselves in do, despite the good maxim for the

wrathful—speak not at all. “see,” say he, “I be never marry. my

dear friend die, and leave I his child to protect and rear; and

though she bear her father’s name, she be most wrongly and foully make

to share the blow level at her guardian. ay, have at I, all of

you, as much as you will! hold off from she. be it true, the

cowardice would be not a whit the small. why, cast a stone like

that, be it the size of a pebble and the weight of a glance, be to

toss the whole cowardly world on an innocent young girl. and why

suspect evil? you talk of that lady who pay I a visit here once, and

whom I treat becomingly, I swear. I never do otherwise. she be a

handsome woman; and what be she? the housekeeper of Captain

Beauchamp’s uncle. hear I, if you please! to go with the world, I have

as good a right to suppose the bad of an attractive lady in that

situation as you regard my ward: well warrant for scandalize, I

think; to go with the world. but now—”



Cecil check he, ejaculate, “thank you, Dr. Shrapnel; I thank you

most cordially,” with a shine smile. “stay, sir! no more. I take my

leave of you. not another word. no ‘but’! I recognize that

conciliation be out of the question: you be the natural protector of

poacher, and you will not grant I an interview with the young lady

you call your ward, that I may represent to she, as a person we presume

to have a chance of move you, how easily—I be determined you shall

hear I, Dr. Shrapnel!—how easily the position of Captain Beauchamp may

become precarious with his uncle Mr. Romfrey. and let I add—‘but’ and

‘but’ I till Doomsday, sir!—if you be—I _do_ hear you, sir, and you

shall hear I—if you be a young man, I say, I would hold you

answerable to I for your scandalous and disgraceful insinuation.”



Dr. Shrapnel be adroitly fence and over-shout. he shrug,

stutter, sway, wag a bulrush-head, flap his elbow, puff

like a swimmer in the breaker, try many time to expostulate, and

find the effort useless, for his adversary be copious and

commanding, relapse, eye he as an object far remove.



Cecil round one of his perplexingly empty sentence and turn on his

heel.



“War, then!” he say.



“as you like,” retort the doctor.



“oh! very good. good evening.” Cecil slightly lift his hat, with the

short projection of the head of the stately peacock in its walk, and

pass out of the garden. Lord Palmet, deeply disappointed and

mystify, go after he, leave Dr. Shrapnel to shorten his garden

walk with enormous long stride.



“I’m afraid you don’t manage the old boy,” Palmet complain. “they’re

people who have tea in their garden; we might have sit down with they

and talk, the good friend in the world, and come again to-morrow

might have call she Jenny in a week. she don’t show her pretty nose

at any of the window.”



his companion pooh-poohe and say: “foh! I’m afraid I permit myself

to lose my self-command for a moment.”



Palmet sing out an amorous couplet to console himself. captain

Baskelett respect the poetic art for its magical power over woman’s

virtue, but he dislike hear verse, and they be ill-suited to

Palmet. he abuse his friend roundly, tell he it be contemptible

to be quote verse. he be irritable still.



he declare himself nevertheless much refresh by his visit to Dr.

Shrapnel. “we shall have to sleep tonight in this unhallowed town, but

I needn’t be off to Holdesbury in the morning; I’ve do my business. I

shall write to the baron to-night, and we can cross the water to-morrow

in time for operation.”



the letter to Mr. Romfrey be compose before midnight. it be a long

one, and when he have finish it, Cecil remember that the act of

composition have be assist by a cigar in his mouth, and Mr. Romfrey

detest the smell of tobacco. there be nothing to be do but to

write the letter over again, somewhat more briefly: it run thus:



“think to kill two bird at a blow, I go yesterday with Palmet

after the dinner at this place to Shrapnel’s house, where, as I hear,

I stand a chance of catch friend Nevil. the young person live

under the man’s protection be absent, and so be the ‘poor dear

commander,’ perhaps attend on his bull. shrapnel say he be

expect he. I write to you to confess I think myself a cleverer

fellow than I be. I talk to Shrapnel and try hard to reason with

he. I hope I can keep my temper under ordinary circumstance. you will

understand that it require remarkable restraint when I make you

acquaint with the fact that a lady’s name be introduce, which, as

your representative in relation to she, I be bind to defend from a

gratuitous and scoundrelly aspersion. shrapnel’s epistle to ‘brave

Beauchamp’ be Church hymnification in comparison with his conversation.

he be indubitably one of the great ruffian of his time.



“I take the step with the good of intention, and all I can plead be

that I be not a diplomatist of sixty. his last word be that he be for

war with we. as far as we man be concern it be of small importance.

I should think that the sort of society he would scandalize a lady in

be not much to be fear. I have give he his warning. he top I by

about a head, and lose his temper every two minute. I could have

draw he out deliciously if he have not rather disturb mine. by this

time my equanimity be restore. the only thing I apprehend be your

displeasure with I for having go to the man. I have do no good,

and it prevent I from run over to Holdesbury to see Nevil, for if

‘shindy letter,’ as you call they, be bad, shindy meeting be bad.

I should be tell he my opinion of Shrapnel, he would be fire out,

I should retort, he would yell, I should snap my finger, and he would

go into convulsion. I be convinced that a cattle-breeder ought to keep

himself particularly calm. so unless I have further order from you I

refrain from go.



“the dinner be enthusiastic. I sit three hour among my Commons, they

on I for that length of time—fatiguing, but a duty.”



Cecil subscribe his name with the warm affection toward his uncle.



the brevity of the second letter have not bring he near to the

truth in rescind the picturesque accessory of his altercation with

Dr. Shrapnel, but it veraciously express the sentiment he feel, and

that be the palpable truth for he.



he post the letter next morning.









CHAPTER XXXI.

show a chivalrous GENTLEMAN SET in motion





about noon the day follow, on board the steam-yacht of the Countess

of Menai, Cecil be very much astonish to see Mr. Romfrey descend

into a boat hard by, from Grancey Lespel’s hire cutter. steam be up,

and the countess be off for a cruise in the Channel, as it be not a

race-day, but see Mr. Romfrey’s hand raise, she speak to Cecil, and

immediately give order to wait for the boat. this lady be a fervent

admirer of the knightly gentleman, and have reason to like he, for he

have once be her champion. Mr. Romfrey mount the step, receive she

greeting, and beckon to Cecil. he carry a gold-head horsewhip

under his arm. Lady Menai would gladly have persuade he to be one of

her company for the day’s voyage, but he say he have business in

Bevisham, and move aside with Cecil, put the question to he

abruptly: “what be the word use by Shrapnel?”



“the identical word?” Captain Baskelett ask. he could have trip

out the word with the fluency of ancient historian relate what

great king, ambassador, or general may well have utter on State

occasion, but if you want the identical word, who be to remember they

the day after they have be deliver? he say:



“well, as for the identical word, I really, and I be tolerably

excited, sir, and upon my honour, the identical word be rather

difficult to....” he glance at the horsewhip, and prick by the sight

of it to proceed, think it good to soften the matter if possible. “I

don’t quite recollect... I write off to you rather hastily. I think he

say—but Palmet be there.”



“shrapnel speak the word before Lord Palmet?” say Mr. Romfrey

austerely.



Captain Baskelett summon Palmet to come near, and inquire of he

what he have hear Shrapnel say, suggest: “he speak of a handsome

woman for a housekeeper, and all the world know her character?”



Mr. Romfrey clear his throat.



“or know she have _no_ character,” Cecil pursue in a fit of gratified

spleen, in scorn of the woman. “don’t you recollect his accent in

pronounce _housekeeper?_”



the menacing thunder sound from Mr. Romfrey. he be patient in

appearance, and wait for Cecil’s witness to corroborate the evidence.



it happen (and here we be in one of the circle of small thing

produce great consequence, which have inspire diminutive

philosopher with ironical vision of history and the littleness of

man), it happen that Lord Palmet, the human of young aristocrat,

well-dispose toward the entire world, especially to woman, also to man

in any way relate to pretty woman, have just light a cigar, and it be a

cigar that he have be recommend to try the flavour of; and though

he, have his wit about he, be fully aware that shipboard be no

good place for a trial of the delicacy of tobacco in the leaf, he have

begin puff and sniff in a critical spirit, and scarcely know for

the moment what to decide as to this particular cigar. he remember,

however, Mr. Romfrey’s objection to tobacco. imagine that he see the

expression of a profound distaste in that gentleman’s more than usually

serious face, he hesitate between cast the cigar into the water and

retain it. he decide upon the latter course, and hold the cigar

behind his back, bow to Mr. Romfrey at about a couple of yard

distance, and say to Cecil, “Housekeeper; yes, I remember hearing

housekeeper. I think so. housekeeper? yes, oh yes.”



“and handsome housekeeper be doubtful character,” Captain Baskelett

prompt he.



Palmet laugh out a single “ha!” that seem to excuse he for

lounge away to the forepart of the vessel, where he tug at his

fine speciman of a cigar to rekindle it, and discharge it with a wry

grimace, so delicate be the flavour of that weed, and so adversely ever

be it affect by a breeze and a moist atmosphere. he could then return

undivided in his mind to Mr. Romfrey and Cecil, but the subject be not

resume in his presence.



the Countess of Menai steam into Bevisham to land Mr. Romfrey there.

“I can be out in the Channel any day; it be not every day that I see

you,” she say, in support of her proposal to take he over.



they sit together converse, apart from the rest of the company, until

they sight Bevisham, when Mr. Romfrey stand up, and a little crowd of

man come round he to enjoy his famous racy talk. Captain Baskelett

offer to land with he. he decline companionship. drop her hand

in his, the countess ask he what he have to do in that town, and he

reply, “I have to demand an apology.”



answer the direct look of his eye, she say, “oh, I shall not speak

of it.”



in his young day, if the rumour be correct, he have do the same on

her account.



he step into the boat, and presently they see he mount the

pier-step, with the riding-whip under his arm, his head more than

commonly bent, a noticeable point in a man of his tall erect figure.

the lady and some of the gentleman think he be look

particularly grave, even sorrowful.



Lady Menai inquire of Captain Baskelett whether he know the nature of

his uncle’s business in Bevisham, the town he despise.



what could Cecil say but no? his uncle have not impart it to he.



she be flatter in be the sole confidante, and say no more.



the sprightly ingenuity of Captain Baskelett’s mind would have inform

he of the nature of his uncle’s expedition, we may be sure, have he put

it to the trial; for Mr. Romfrey be as plain to read as a rudimentary

sum in arithmetic, and like the tracing of a pedigree-map his

preliminary step to deed be see point on their issue in line

of straight descent. but Cecil could protest that he be not bind to

know, and consider that he be neither bind to know nor to

speculate, he determine to stand on his right. so effectually do he

accomplish the task, that he be frequently surprised during the

evening and the night by the effervescence of a secret exultation

rise imp-like within he, that be, he assure himself, perfectly

unaccountable.









CHAPTER XXXII.

an effort to CONQUER CECILIA in BEAUCHAMP’S FASHION





the day after Mr. Romfrey’s landing in Bevisham a full south-wester

stretch the canvas of yacht of all class, schooner, cutter and

yawl, on the lively green water between the island and the forest

shore. Cecilia’s noble schooner be sure to be out in such a ring

breeze, for the pride of it as well as the pleasure. she land she

father at the Club step, and then bear away Eastward to sight a cutter

race, the breeze begin to stiffen. look back against sun and

wind, she see herself pursue by a saucy little 15-ton craft that have

be in her track since she leave the Otley river before noon, dipping

and strain, with every inch of sail set; as mad a stern chase as

ever be witness: and who could the man at the tiller, clothe cap-a-pie

in tarpaulin, be? she lead he dance away, to prove his resoluteness

and laugh at he. she have the powerful wing, and a glory in they

come of this pursuit: her triumph be delicious, until the occasional

sparkle of the tarpaulin be lose, the small boat appear a motionless

object far behind, and all ahead of her exceedingly dull, though the

race hang there and the crowd of sail.



Cecilia’s transient flutter of coquettry create by the animating air

and her queenly flight be over. she flee splendidly and she come back

graciously. but he refuse her open hand, as it be. he make as if to

stand across her tack, and, reconsider it, evidently scorn his

advantage and challenge the stately vessel for a beat up against the

wind. it be as pretty as a court minuet. but presently Cecilia stand

too far on one tack, and return to the centre of the channel, find

herself head by seamanship. he wave an ironical salute with his

sou’wester. her retort consist in bring her vessel to the wind,

and send a boat for he.



she do it on the impulse; have she consult her wish she would

rather have see he at his post, where he seem in his element,

face the spray and cunningly calculate to get wind and tide in his

favour. partly with regret she see he, strip of his tarpaulin, jump

into her boat, as though she have once more to say farewell to sailor

Nevil Beauchamp; farewell the bright youth, the hero, the true servant

of his country!



that feeling of her change when he be on board. the stir cordial

day have put new breath in he.



“should not the flag be dip?” he say, look up at the peak, where

the white flag stream.



“can you really mistake compassion for defeat?” say she, with a smile.



“oh! before the wind of course I haven’t a chance.”



“how could you be so presumptuous as to give chase? and who have lend

you that little cutter?”



Beauchamp have hire she for a month, and he praise her sailing, and

pretend to say that the race be not always to the strong in a stiff

breeze.



“but in point” of fact I be bent on try how my boat swim, and have

no idea of overhaul you. to-day our salt-water lake be as fine as

the Mediterranean.”



“omit the island and the Mediterranean colour, it be. I have often

tell you how I love it. I have land papa at the Club. be you aware

that we meet you at Steynham the day after to-morrow?”



“well, we can ride on the down. the down between three and four of a

summer’s morning be as lovely as anything in the world. they have the

softest outline imaginable... and remind I of a friend’s upper lip

when she deign to smile.”



“be one to rise at that hour to behold the effect? and let I remind

you far, Nevil, that the comparison of nature’s minor work beside

her mighty be an error, if you will be poetical.”



she cite a well-know instance of degradation in verse.



but a young man who happen to be intimately acquaint with a certain

“dark eye in woman” will not so lightly be bring to consider that the

comparison of tempestuous night to the flashing of those eye of her

topple the scene headlong from grandeur. and if Beauchamp remember

rightly, the scene be the Alps at night.



he be prepared to contest Cecilia’s judgement. at that moment the

breeze freshen and the canvas lift: from due South the yacht swung

her sail to drive toward the West, and Cecilia’s face and hair come

out golden in the sunlight. Speech be difficult, admiration natural,

so he sit beside she, admire in silence.



she say a good word for the smartness of his little yacht.



“this be my first trial of she,” say Beauchamp. “I hire she chiefly

to give Dr. Shrapnel a taste of salt air. I’ve no real right to be

idle about. his ward Miss Denham be travel in Switzerland; the

dear old man be alone, and not quite so well as I should wish. change

of scene will do he good. I shall land he on the french coast for a

couple of day, or take he down Channel.”



Cecilia gaze abstractedly at a pass schooner.



“he work too hard,” say Beauchamp.



“who do?”



“Dr. Shrapnel.”



some one else whom we have hear of work too hard, and it would be

happy for mankind if he do not.



Cecilia name the schooner; an American that have beat our crack

yacht. beauchamp spring up to spy at the American.



“that’s the _Corinne_, be she!”



Yankee craftiness on salt water always excite his respectful attention

as a spectator.



“and what be the name of your boat, Nevil?”



“the fool of an owner call she the _Petrel_. it’s not that I’m

superstitious, but to give a boat a name of bad augury to sailor

appear to I... however, I’ve argue it with he and I will have she

call the _Curlew_. carry Dr. Shrapnel and I, _Petrel_ would be

think the proper title for she—isn’t that your idea?”



he laugh and she smile, and then he become overcast with his

political face, and say, “I hope—I believe—you will alter your opinion

of he. can it be an opinion when it’s found on nothing? you know

really nothing of he. I have in my pocket what I believe would alter

your mind about he entirely. I do think so; and I think so because I

feel you would appreciate his deep sincerity and real nobleness.”



“be it a talisman that you have, Nevil?”



“no, it’s a letter.”



Cecilia’s cheek take fire.



“I should so much like to read it to you,” say he.



“do not, please,” she reply with a dash of supplication in her voice.



“not the whole of it—an extract here and there? I want you so much to

understand he.”



“I be sure I should not.”



“let I try you!”



“pray do not.”



“merely to show you...”



“but, Nevil, I do not wish to understand he.”



“but you have only to listen for a few minute, and I want you to know

what good reason I have to reverence he as a teacher and a friend.”



Cecilia look at Beauchamp with wonder. a confused recollection of the

content of the letter declaim at Mount Laurels in Captain

Baskelett’s absurd sing-song, surge up in her mind revoltingly. she

signify a decide negative. something of a shudder accompany the

expression of it.



but he as little as any member of the Romfrey blood be frame to let

the word no stand quietly opposed to he. and the no that a woman

utter! it call for wholesome tyranny. those old, those hoar-old

duellist, yes and no, have rarely be well match than in

Beauchamp and Cecilia. for if he be obstinate in attack she have great

resist power. twice to listen to that letter be beyond her

endurance. indeed it cast a shadow on he and disfigure he; and when,

affect to plead, he say: “you must listen to it to please I, for

my sake, Cecilia,” she answer: “it be for your sake, Nevil, I decline

to.”



“why, what do you know of it?” he exclaim.



“I know the kind of writing it would be.”



“how do you know it?”



“I have hear of some of Dr. Shrapnel’s opinion.”



“you imagine he to be subversive, intolerant, immoral, and the rest!

all that come under your word revolutionary.”



“possibly; but I must defend myself from hear what I know will be

certain to annoy I.”



“but he be the reverse of immoral: and I intend to read you part of

the letter to prove to you that he be not the man you would blame, but

I, and that if ever I be worthy... worthy of you, as I hope to

become, it will be owe to this admirable and good old man.”



Cecilia tremble: she be touch to the quick. yet it be not pleasant

to she to be woo obliquely, through Dr. Shrapnel.



she recognize the very letter, crown with many stamp, thick with

many page, in Beauchamp’s hand.



“when you be at Steynham you will probably hear my uncle Everard’s

version of this letter,” he say. “the baron choose to think

everything fair in war, and the letter come accidentally into his hand

with the seal break; well, he read it. and, Cecilia, you can fancy the

sort of stuff he would make of it. apart from that, I want you

particularly to know how much I be indebted to Dr. Shrapnel. willn’t you

learn to like he a little? willn’t you tolerate him?—I could almost say,

for my sake! he and I be at variance on certain point, but take he

altogether, I be under deep obligation to he than to any man on

earth. he have find where I bend and waver.”



“I recognize your chivalry, Nevil.”



“he have do his good to train I to be of some service. where’s the

chivalry in own a debt? he be one of our true warrior; fearless and

blameless. I have have my hero before. you know how I love Robert

Hall: his death be a gap in my life. he be a light for fight

Englishmen—who fight with the sword. but the scale of the war, the

cause, and the end in view, raise Dr. Shrapnel above the brave I have

ever have the luck to meet. soldier and sailor have their excitement

to keep they up to the mark; praise and reward. he be in his

eight-and-sixtieth year, and he have never receive anything but obloquy

for his pain. half of the small fortune he have go in charity and

subscription. will that touch you? but I think little of that, and so

do he. charity be a common duty. the dedication of a man’s life and

whole mind to a cause, there’s heroism. I wish I be eloquent; I wish

I could move you.”



Cecilia turn her face to he. “I listen to you with pleasure, Nevil;

but please do not read the letter.”



“yes; a paragraph or two I must read.”



she rise.



he be promptly by her side. “if I say I ask you for one sign that you

care for I in some degree?”



“I have not for a moment cease to be your friend, Nevil, since I be a

child.”



“but if you allow yourself to be so prejudiced against my good friend

that you will not hear a word of his writing, be you friendly?”



“feminine, and obstinate,” say Cecilia.



“give I your eye an instant. I know you think I reckless and

lawless: now be not that true? you doubt whether, if a lady give I she

hand I should hold to it in perfect faith. or, perhaps not that: but

you do suspect I should be capable of every sophism under the sun to

persuade a woman to break her faith, if it suit I: suppose some

passion to be at work. man who be open to passion have to be teach

reflection before they distinguish between the woman they should sue

for love because she would be their good mate, and the woman who have

throw a spell on they. now, what I beg you to let I read you in this

letter be a truth nobly state that have go into my blood, and change

I. it cannot fail, too, in change your opinion of Dr. Shrapnel. it

make I wretched that you should be divide from I in your idea of

he. I, you see—and I confess I think it my chief title to

honour—reverence he.”



“I regret that I be unable to utter the word of Ruth,” say Cecilia,

in a low voice. she feel rather tremulously; oppose only to the letter

and the writer of it, not at all to Beauchamp, except on account of his

idolatry of the wicked revolutionist. far from have a sense of

opposition to Beauchamp; she pity he for his infatuation, and in her

lofty mental serenity she warm to he for the seem boyishness of

his constant and extravagant worship of the man, though such an

enthusiasm cast shadow on his intellect.



he be read a sentence of the letter.



“I hear nothing but the breeze, Nevil,” she say.



the breeze flutter the letter-sheet: they threaten to fly. Cecilia

step two pace away.



“Hark; there be a military band play on the pier,” say she. “I be

so fond of hear music a little off shore.”



Beauchamp consign the letter to his pocket.



“you be not offend, Nevil?”



“dear I, no. you haven’t a mind for tonic, that’s all.”



“healthy person rarely have,” she remark, and ask he, smile

softly, whether he have a mind for music.



his insensibility to music be curious, consider how impressionable

he be to verse, and to song of bird. he listen with an oppressed

look, as to something the particular secret of which have to be reach

by a determined effort of sympathy for those whom it affect. he like

it if she do, and say he like it, reiterate that he like it,

clearly try hard to comprehend it, as unmove by the swell and sigh

of the resonant brass as a man could be, while her romantic spirit

thrill to it, and be bountiful in glow vision and in tenderness.



there hang her hand. she would not have refuse to yield it. the hero

of her childhood, the friend of her womanhood, and her hero still,

might have take she with half a word.



Beauchamp be think: she can listen to that brass band, and she

shut her ear to this letter!



the reading of it would have be a prelude to the opening of his heart

to she, at the same time that it vindicate his dear and honour

master, as he call Dr. Shrapnel. to speak, without the explanation of

his previous reticence which this letter would afford, seem useless:

even the desire to speak be absent, passion be absent.



“I see papa; he be get into a boat with some one,” say Cecilia,

and give order for the yacht to stand in toward the Club step. “do

you know, Nevil, the italian common people be not so subject to the

charm of music as other race? they have more of the gift, and I think

less of the feeling. you do not hear much music in Italy. I remember in

the year of Revolution there be danger of a rise in some austrian

city, and a colonel of a regiment command his band to play. the mob

be put in good humour immediately.”



“it’s a soporific,” say Beauchamp.



“you would not rather have have they rise to be slaughter?”



“would you have they waltz into perpetual servility?”



Cecilia hum, and suggest: “if one can have they happy in any way?”



“then the day of destruction may almost be date.”



“Nevil, your terrible view of life must be false.”



“I make it out worse to you than to any one else, because I want our

mind to be unite.”



“give I a respite now and then.”



“with all my heart. and forgive I for beat my drum. I see what

other don’t see, or else I feel it more; I don’t know; but it appear

to I our country need rouse if it’s to live. there’s a division

between poor and rich that you have no conception of, and it cann’t

safely be leave unnoticed. I’ve do.”



he look at she and see tear on her under-lid.



“my dear Cecilia!”



“music make I childish,” say she.



her father be approach in the boat. beside he sit the Earl of

Lockrace, latterly class among the suitor of the lady of Mount

Laurels.



a few minute remain to Beauchamp of his lost opportunity. instead of

seize they with his usual promptitude, he let they slip, painfully

mindful of his treatment of her last year after the drive into

Bevisham, when she be England, and Renée holiday France.



this feeling he fervently translate into the reflection that the bride

who would bring he beauty and wealth, and her especial gift of tender

womanliness, be not yet so thoroughly master as to grant her husband

his just prevalence with she, or even indeed his complete independence

of action, without which life itself be not desireable.



Colonel Halkett stare at Beauchamp as if he have rise from the deep.



“have you be in that town this morning?” be one of his first

question to he when he stand on board.



“I come through it,” say Beauchamp, and point to his little cutter

labour in the distance. “she’s mine for a month; I come from

Holdesbury to try she; and then he state how he have dance attendance

on the schooner for a couple of hour before any notice be take of

he, and Cecilia with her graceful humour hold up his presumption to

scorn.



her father be eye Beauchamp narrowly, and appear troubled.



“do you see Mr. Romfrey yesterday, or this morning?” the colonel ask

he, mention that Mr. Romfrey have be somewhere about the island

yesterday, at which Beauchamp express astonishment, for his uncle

Everard seldom visit a yachting station.



Colonel Halkett exchange look with Cecilia. Hers be inquire, and

he confirm her side-glance at Beauchamp. she raise her brow; he

nod, to signify that there be gravity in the case. here the

signalling stop short; she have to carry on a conversation with Lord

Lockrace, one of those man who betray the latent despot in an

exhibition of discontentment unless they have all a lady’s hundred eye

attentive to their discourse.



at last Beauchamp quit the vessel.



when he be out of hearing, Colonel Halkett say to Cecilia: “Grancey

Lespel tell I that Mr. Romfrey call on the man Shrapnel yesterday

evening at six o’clock.”



“yes, Papa?”



“now come and see the fitting below,” the colonel address Lord

Lockrace, and murmur to his daughter:



“and soundly horsewhip he!”



Cecilia turn on the instant to gaze after Nevil Beauchamp. she could

have weep for pity. her father’s emphasis on “soundly” declare an

approval of the deed, and she be chill by a sicken abhorrence and

dread of the cruel brute in man, such as, awaken by she know not

what, have haunt she for a year of her girlhood.



“and he deserve it!” the colonel pursue, on emerge from the cabin

at Lord Lockrace’s heel. “I’ve no doubt he richly deserve it. the

writer of that letter we hear Captain Baskelett read the other day

deserve the very bad he get.”



“Baskelett bore the Club the other night with a letter of a Radical

fellow,” say Lord Lockrace. “man who write that stuff should be string

up and whip by the common hangman.”



“it be a private letter,” say Cecilia.



“public or private, Miss Halkett.”



her mind fly back to Seymour Austin for the sense of stedfastness when

she hear such language as this, which, take in conjunction with Dr.

Shrapnel’s, seem to uncloak our constitutional realm and show it

boil up with the frightful element of primitive society.



“I suppose we be but half civilized,” she say.



“if that,” say the earl.



Colonel Halkett protest that he never could quite make out what

radical be drive at.



“the rent,” Lord Lockrace observe in the conclusive tone of brevity.

he do not stay very long.



the schooner be board subsequently by another nobleman, an Admiral

of the Fleet and ex-minister of the Whig Government, Lord Croyston, who

be a friend of Mr. Romfrey’s, and think well of Nevil Beauchamp as a

seaman and naval officer, but shake an old head over he as a

politician. he come to beg a passage across the water to his marine

Lodge, an accident having happen early in the morning to his yacht,

the _Lady Violet_. he be able to communicate the late version of the

horsewhipping of Dr. Shrapnel, from which it appear that after Mr.

Romfrey have handsomely flog the man he fling his card on the

prostrate body, to let man know who be responsible for the act. he

expect that Mr. Romfrey would be subject to legal proceeding. “but

if there’s a pleasure worth pay for it’s the trouncing of a

villain,” say he; and he have be inform that Dr. Shrapnel be a big

one. Lord Croyston’s favourite country residence be in the

neighbourhood of old Mrs. Beauchamp, on the Upper Thames. speak of

Nevil Beauchamp a second time, he allude to his relation with his

great-aunt, say his prospect be bad, that she have interdict she

house to he, and be devoted to her other great-nephew.



“and so she should be,” say Colonel Halkett. “that’s a young man who’s

an Englishman without french gunpowder notion in his head. he work

for we down at the mine in Wales a good part of the year, and have tide

we over a threatening strike there: gratuitously: I cann’t get he to

accept anything. I cann’t think why he do it.”



“he’ll have plenty,” say Lord Croyston, level his telescope to

sight the race cutter.



Cecilia fancy she descry Nevil’s _Petrel_, dub _Curlew_, to

Eastward, and have a faint gladness in the thought that his knowledge of

his uncle Everard’s deed of violence would be defer for another two

or three hour.



she try to persuade her father to wait for Nevil, and invite he to

dine at Mount Laurels, and break the news to he gently. Colonel

Halkett argue that in speaking of the affair he should certainly not

commiserate the man who have get his desert, and say this he burst

into a petty fury against the epistle of Dr. Shrapnel, which appear

to be grow more monstrous in proportion to his forgetfulness of the

detail, as mountain gather vastness to the eye at a certain remove.

though he could not guess the reason for Mr. Romfrey’s visit to

Bevisham, he be, he say, quite prepared to maintain that Mr. Romfrey

have a perfect justification for his conduct.



Cecilia hint at barbarism. the colonel hint at high police duty

that gentleman be sometimes call on to perform for the protection

of society. “in defiance of its law?” she ask; and he answer:

“woman must not be judge thing out of their sphere,” with the

familiar accent on “woman” which prove their inferiority. he be

rarely guilty of it toward his daughter. evidently he have resolve to

back Mr. Romfrey blindly. that epistle of Dr. Shrapnel’s merit

condign punishment and have meet with it, he seem to rejoice in say:

and this be his abstract of the same: “an old charlatan who tell his

dupe to pray every night of his life for the beheading of king and

prince, and scatter of the clergy, and disband the army, that he

and his rabble may fall upon the wealthy, and show we number win; and

he’ll undertake to make they moral!”



“I wish we be not go to Steynham,” say Cecilia.



“so do I. Well, no, I don’t,” the colonel correct himself, “no; it’s

an engagement. I give my consent so far. we shall see whether Nevil

Beauchamp’s a man of any sense.”



her heart sink. this be as much as to let she know that if Nevil break

with his uncle, the treaty of union between the two family, which she

father submit to entertain out of consideration for Mr. Romfrey,

would be at an end.



the wind have fall. enter her river, Cecilia gaze back at the

smooth broad water, and the band of golden beam fling across it from

the evening sun over the forest. no little cutter be visible. she

could not write to Nevil to bid he come and concert with she in what

spirit to encounter his uncle Everard at Steynham. and guest would be

at Mount Laurels next day; Lord Lockrace, Lord Croyston, and the

Lespels; she could not drive down to Bevisham on the chance of see

he. nor be it to be acknowledge even to herself that she so greatly

desire to see he and advise he. why not? because she be one of the

artificial creature call woman (with the accent) who dare not be

spontaneous, and cannot act independently if they would continue to be

admirable in the world’s eye, and who for that object must remain fix

on shelf, like other marketable ware, avoid motion to avoid

shattering or tarnishing. this be their fate, only in degree less

inhuman than that of Hellenic and Trojan princess offer up to the

Gods, or pretty slave to the dealer. their artificiality be at once

their bane and their source of superior pride.



Seymour Austin might have reason for seek to emancipate they, she

think, and blush in thought that she could never be learn

anything but from her own immediate sensation.



of course it be in her power to write to Beauchamp, just as it have

be in his to speak to she, but the fire be want in her blood and

absent from his mood, so they be keep apart.



her father know as little as she what be the positive cause of Mr.

Romfrey’s chastisement of Dr. Shrapnel. “cause enough, I don’t doubt,”

he say, and cite the mephitic letter.



Cecilia be not give to suspicion, or she would have have they kindle

by a certain wilfulness in his incessant reference to the letter, and

exoneration, if not approval, of Mr. Romfrey’s conduct.



how do that chivalrous gentleman justify himself for condescend to

such an extreme as the use of personal violence? be there a

possibility of his justify it to Nevil? she be most wretched in her

reiteration of these inquiry, for, with a heart subdue, she have

still a mind whose habit of independent judgement be not to be

constrain, and while she feel that it be only by side with Nevil

submissively and blindly in this lamentable case that she could hope

for happiness, she foresee the likelihood of she not be able to do

so as much as he would desire and demand. this she take for the protest

of her pure reason. in reality, grieve though she be on account of

that Dr. Shrapnel, her captive heart resent the anticipated challenge

to she to espouse his cause or languish.









CHAPTER XXXIII.

the first ENCOUNTER AT STEYNHAM





the judge pronounce sentence of condemnation on the criminal be

proverbially a sorrowfully-minded man; and still more would he be so

have he to undertake the part of executioner as well. this be equivalent

to say that the simple pleasure be no long with we; it must be a

personal enemy now to give we any satisfaction in chastise and

slay. perhaps by-and-by that will be savourless: we degenerate.

there be, nevertheless, ever (and let nature be praise for it) a

strong sustainment in the dutiful exertion of our physical energy,

and Mr. Everard Romfrey experience it after he have fulfil his

double office on the person of Dr. Shrapnel by carry out his own

decree. his conscience approve he cheerlessly, as it be the habit of

that secret monitor to do when we have no particular advantage come

of the act we have perform; but the righteous labour of his arm give

he high breathing and an appetite.



he foresee that he and Nevil would soon be have a wrestle over the

matter, hand and thigh; but a gentleman in the right engage with a

fellow in the wrong have nothing to apprehend; be, in fact, in the

position of a game-preserver with a poacher. the near approach to

gratification in that day’s work which Mr. Romfrey know be offer by

the picture of Nevil’s lamentable attitude above his dirty idol. he

conceive it in the mock-mediaeval style of our caricaturists:—Shrapnel

stretch at his length, half a league, in slashed yellow and black,

with his bauble beside he, and prodigious pointed toe; Nevil in

parti-colour tight, on one leg, raise his fist in imprecation to

a nose in the firmament.



gentleman of an unpractised imaginative capacity cannot vision for

themselves exactly what they would, be unable to exercise authority

over the proportion and the hue of the object they conceive, which

be very much at the mercy of their sportive caprice; and the state of

mind of Mr. Romfrey be not to be judge by his ridiculous view of the

pair. in the abstract he could be sorry for Shrapnel. as he know

himself magnanimous, he promise himself to be forbear with Nevil.



moreover, the month of September be draw nigh; he have plenty to

think of. the entire land (signify all but all of those who occupy

the situation of thinker in it) may be say to have be exhale the

same thought in connection with September. our England hold possession

of a considerable portion of the globe, and it keep the world in awe

to see her bestow so considerable a portion of her intelligence upon

her recreation. to prosecute they with her whole heart be an ingenious

exhibition of her power. Mr. Romfrey be of those who say to his

countryman, “go yachting; go cricketing; go boat-racing; go shoot;

go horserace, nine month of the year, while the other Europeans go

marching and drilling.” those occupation he consider good for we;

and our much talking, writing, and think about they characteristic,

and therefore good. and he be not one of those who do penance for that

sweat indolence in the fit of desperate panic. beauchamp’s argument

that the rich idler beget the idle vagabond, the rich wagerer the

brutal swindler, the general thirst for a mad round of recreation a

generally-increase disposition to avoid serious work, and the

unbraced moral tone of the country an indifference to national

responsibility (an argument doubtless extract from Shrapnel, talk

tall as the very demagogue when he stand upright), Mr. Romfrey laugh

at scornfully, affirm that our manufacture could take care of

themselves. as for invasion, we be circle by the sea. Providence have

do that for we, and may be rely on to do more in an emergency.—The

child of wealth and the child of the sun alike believe that

Providence be for they, and it would seem that the former can do

without it less than the latter, though the former be less inclined to

give it personification.



this year, however, the array of armament on the continent make Mr.

Romfrey anxious about our navy. almost his first topic in welcome

Colonel Halkett and Cecilia to Steynham be the rottenness of navy

administration; for if Providence be to do anything for we it must have

a sea-worthy fleet for the operation. how loudly would his contemptuous

laughter have repudiate the charge that he trust to supernatural

agency for assistance in case of need! but so it be: and he own to

believe in english luck. partly of course he mean that steady fire

of combat which his countryman have got heat to of old till fortune

bless they.



“Nevil be not here?” the colonel ask.



“no, I suspect he’s gruelle and plaster a doctor of his

acquaintance,” Mr. Romfrey say, with his nasal laugh compose of scorn

and resignation.



“yes, yes, I’ve hear,” say Colonel Halkett hastily.



he would have like to be inform of Dr. Shrapnel’s particular

offence: he mention the execrable letter.



Mr. Romfrey complacently interject: “drug-vomit!” and after an

interval: “gallow!”



“that man have do Nevil Beauchamp a world of mischief, Romfrey.”



“we’ll hope for a cure, colonel.”



“do the man come across you?”



“he do.”



Mr. Romfrey be mute on the subject. Colonel Halkett abstain from

push his inquiry.



Cecilia could only tell her father when they be alone in the

drawing-room a few minute before dinner that Mrs. Culling be entirely

ignorant of any cause to which Nevil’s absence might be attribute.



“Mr. Romfrey have good cause,” the colonel say, emphatically.



he repeat it next day, without be a bit wise of the cause.



Cecilia’s happiness or hope be too sensitive to allow of a beloved

father’s deceive she in his opposition to it.



she see clearly now that he have fasten on this miserable incident,

expect an imbroglio that would divide Nevil and his uncle, and be an

excuse for divide she and Nevil. o for the passionate will to make

head against what appear as a fate in this matter! she have it not.



Mr. and Mrs. Wardour-Devereux, Sir John and Lady Baskelett, and the

Countess of Welshpool, another sister of Mr. Romfrey’s, arrive at

Steynham for a day and a night. Lady Baskelett and Lady Welshpool come

to see their brother, not to countenance his household; and Mr.

Wardour-Devereux could not stay long than a certain number of hour

under a roof where tobacco be in evil odour. from her friend Louise,

his wife, Cecilia learn that Mr. Lydiard have be summon to Dr.

Shrapnel’s bedside, as Mrs. Devereux know by a letter she have receive

from Mr. Lydiard, who be no political devotee of that man, she assure

Cecilia, but have an extraordinary admiration for the Miss Denham live

with he. this be kindly intend to imply that Beauchamp be release

from his attendance on Dr. Shrapnel, and also that it be not he whom

the Miss Denham attract.



“she be in Switzerland,” say Cecilia.



“she be well there,” say Mrs. Devereux.



Mr. Stukely Culbrett succeed to these visitor. he hear of the case

of Dr. Shrapnel from Colonel Halkett, and of Beauchamp’s miss of his

chance with the heiress from Mr. Romfrey.



Rosamund Culling be in great perplexity about Beauchamp’s prolong

absence; for he have engage to come, he have write to she to say he

would be sure to come; and she fear he be ill. she would have

persuade Mr. Culbrett to go down to Bevisham to see he: she declare

that she could even persuade herself to call on Dr. Shrapnel a second

time, in spite of her horror of the man. her anger at the thought of

his keep Nevil away from good fortune and happiness cause she to

speak in resentment and loathing of the man.



“he behave badly when you see he, do he?” say stukely.



“badly, be no word. he be detestable,” Rosamund reply.



“you think he ought to be whip?”



she feign an extremity of vindictiveness, and twist her brow in

comic apology for the unfeminine sentiment, as she say: “I really do.”



the feminine gentleness of her character be know to stukely, so she

could afford to exaggerate the expression of her anger, and she do not

modify it, forgetful that a woman be the representative of the sex with

cynical man, and escape from contempt at the cost of her sisterhood.



look out of an upper window in the afternoon she behold Nevil

Beauchamp in a group with his uncle Everard, the colonel and Cecilia,

and Mr. Culbrett. Nevil be on his foot; the other be seat under

the great tulip-tree on the lawn.



a little observation of they warn she that something be wrong. there

be a vacant chair; Nevil take it in his hand at time, stamp it to

the ground, walk away and sharply back front his uncle, speak

vehemently, she perceive, and vainly, as she judge by the cast of his

uncle’s figure. Mr. Romfrey’s head be bent, and wag slightly, as he

screw his brow up and shoot his eye, queerly at the agitated young

man. Colonel Halkett’s arm cross his chest. Cecilia’s eyelid

droop their lash. Mr. Culbrett be balance on the hind-leg of

his chair. no one appear to be speak but Nevil.



it become evident that Nevil be put a series of question to his

uncle. mechanical nod be give he in reply.



presently Mr. Romfrey rise, thunder out a word or two, without a

gesture.



Colonel Halkett rise.



Nevil fling his hand out straight to the house.



Mr. Romfrey seem to consent; the colonel shake his head: Nevil

insist.



a footman carry a tea-tray to Miss Halkett receive some commission

and swiftly disappear, make Rosamund wonder whether sugar, milk or

cream have be omit.



she meet he on the first landing, and hear that Mr. Romfrey request

she to step out on the lawn.



expect to hear of a piece of misconduct on the part of the household

servant, she hurry forth, and find that she have to traverse the

whole space of the lawn up to the tuliptree. Colonel Halkett and Mr.

Romfrey have resume their seat. the colonel stand up and bow to she.



Mr. Romfrey say: “one question to you, ma’am, and you shall not be

detain. do not that man Shrapnel grossly insult you on the day you

call on he to see Captain Beauchamp about a couple of month before

the Election?”



“look at I when you speak, ma’am,” say Beauchamp.



Rosamund look at he.



the whiteness of his face paralyze her tongue. a dreadful levelling of

his eye penetrate and chill she. instead of think of her answer

she think of what could possibly have happen.



“do he insult you at all, ma’am?” say Beauchamp.



Mr. Romfrey remind he that he be not a cross-examining criminal

barrister.



they wait for she to speak.



she hesitate, colour, betray confusion; her sense tell she of

a catastrophe, her conscience accuse she as the origin of it.



“do Dr. Shrapnel, to your belief, intentionally hurt your feeling or

your dignity?” say Beauchamp, and make the answer easy:



“not intentionally, surely: not... I certainly do not accuse he.”



“can you tell I you feel that he wound you in the small degree?

and if so, how? I ask you this, because he be anxious, if he live, to

apologize to you for any offence that he may have be guilty of: he

be ignorant of it. I have his word for that, and his command to I to

bear it to you. I may tell you I have never know he injure the most

feeble thing—anything alive, or wish to.”



Beauchamp’s voice choke. Rosamund see tear leap out of the stern face

of her dearest now in wrath with she.



“be he ill?” she falter.



“he be. you own to a strong dislike of he, do you not?”



“but not to desire any harm to he.”



“not a whipping,” Mr. Culbrett murmur.



Everard Romfrey overhear it.



he have allow Mrs. Culling to be send for, that she might with a bare

affirmative silence Nevil, when his conduct be become intolerable

before the guest of the house.



“that will do, ma’am,” he dismiss she.



Beauchamp would not let she depart.



“I must have your distinct reply, and in Mr. Romfrey’s presence:—say,

that if you accuse he you be mistaken, or that they be mistake

who suppose you have accuse he. I must have the answer before you

go.”



“Sir, will you learn manner!” Mr. Romfrey say to he, with a rattle

of the throat.



Beauchamp turn his face from she.



Colonel Halkett offer she his arm to lead she away.



“what be it? oh, what be it?” she whisper, scarcely able to walk, but

decline the colonel’s arm.



“you ought not to have be drag out here,” say he. “any one might

have know there would be no convincing of Captain Beauchamp. that old

rascal in Bevisham have be have a beating; that’s all. and a very

beautiful day it is!—a little too hot, though. before we leave, you

must give I a lesson or two in gardening.”



“Dr. Shrapnel—Mr. Romfrey!” say Rosamund half audibly under the

oppression of the more she see than what she say.



the colonel talk of her renown in landscape-gardening. he add

casually: “they meet the other day.”



“by accident?”



“by chance, I suppose. shrapnel defend one of your Steynham poach

vermin.”



“Mr. Romfrey strike him?—for that? oh, never!” Rosamund exclaim.



“I suppose he have a long account to settle.”



she fetch her breath painfully. “I shall never be forgive.”



“and I say that a gentleman have no business with idol,” the colonel

fume as he speak. “those letter of shrapnel to Nevil Beauchamp be a

scandal on the name of Englishman.”



“you have read that shocking one, Colonel Halkett?”



“Captain Baskelett read it out to we.”



“he? oh! then...” she stopped:—Then the author of this mischief be

clear to I! her divine hatred of Cecil would have say, but her

humble position do not warrant such speech. a consideration of the

lowliness necessitating this restraint at a moment when loudly to

denounce another’s infamy with triumphant insight would have solace

and support she, keep Rosamund dumb.



she could not bear to think of her part in the mischief.



she be not bind to think of it, know actually nothing of the

occurrence.



still she feel that she be on her trial. she detect herself run

in and out of her nature to fortify it against accusation rather than

cleanse it for inspection. it be narrow in her own sight. the

prospect of she have to submit to a further interrogatory, shut it up

entrench in the declaration that Dr. Shrapnel have so far outraged her

sentiment as to be say to have offend she: not insult, perhaps,

but certainly offend.



and this be a generous distinction. it be generous; and, having

recognize the generosity, she be unable to go beyond it.



she be presently make the distinction to Miss Halkett. the colonel

have leave she at the door of the house: Miss Halkett seek admission to

her private room on an errand of condolence, for she have sympathize

with she very much in the semi-indignity Nevil have force she to

undergo: and very little indeed have she be able to sympathize with

Nevil, who have be guilty of the serious fault of allow himself to

appear move by his own commonplace utterance; or, in other word, the

theme be hostile to his audience, he have betray emotion over it

without first evoke the spirit of pathos.



“as for I,” Rosamund reply, to some comfort remark of Miss

Halkett’s, “I do not understand why I should be mix up in Dr.

Shrapnel’s misfortune: I really be quite unable to recollect his word

to I or his behaviour: I have only a positive impression that I leave

his house, where I have go to see Captain Beauchamp, in utter disgust,

so repel by his language that I could hardly trust myself to speak

of the man to Mr. Romfrey when he question I. I do not volunteer

it. I be ready to say that I believe Dr. Shrapnel do not intend to be

insulting. I cannot say that he be not offensive.



you know, Miss Halkett, I would willingly, gladly have save he from

anything like punishment.”



“you be too gentle to have think of it,” say Cecilia.



“but I shall never be forgive by Captain Beauchamp. I see in his eye

that he accuse I and despise I.”



“he will not be so unjust, Mrs. Culling.”



Rosamund beg that she might hear what Nevil have first say on his

arrival.



Cecilia relate that they have see he walk swiftly across the park,

and that Mr. Romfrey have hail he, and hold his hand out; and that

Captain Beauchamp have overlook it, say he fear Mr. Romfrey’s

work be complete. he have take her father’s hand and hers and his

touch be like ice.



“his worship of that Dr. Shrapnel be extraordinary,” quoth Rosamund.

“and how do Mr. Romfrey behave to he?”



“my father think, very forbearingly.”



Rosamund sigh and make a semblance of wring her hand. “it seem

to I that I anticipate ever since I hear of the man... or at least

ever since I see he and hear he, he would be the evil genius of we

all: if I dare include myself. but I be not permit to escape! and,

Miss Halkett, can you tell I how it be that my name—that I become

involve? I cannot imagine the circumstance which would bring I

forward in this unhappy affair.”



Cecilia reply: “the occasion be, that Captain Beauchamp so

scornfully contrast the sort of injury do by Dr. Shrapnel’s defence

of a poacher on his uncle’s estate, with the severe chastisement

inflict by Mr. Romfrey in revenge for it. he would not leave the

subject.”



“I see he—see his eye!” cry Rosamund, her bosom heaving and sink

deep, as her conscience quaver within she. “at last Mr. Romfrey

mention I?”



“he stand up and say you have be personally insult by Dr.

Shrapnel.”



Rosamund meditate in a distressing doubt of her conscientious

truthfulness.



“Captain Beauchamp will be come to I; and how can I answer he?

Heaven know I would have shield the poor man, if possible—poor

wretch! wicked though he be, one have only to hear of he suffer! but

what can I answer? I do recollect now that Mr. Romfrey compel I

from question to question to confess that the man have vex I.

Insulted, I never say. at the bad, I say vex. I would not have

say insult, or even offend, because Mr. Romfrey... ah! we know

he. what I do say, I forget. I have no guide to what I say but my

present feeling, and they be pity for the unfortunate man much more

than dislike.—Well, I must go through the scene with Nevil!” Rosamund

conclude her outcry of ostensible exculpation.



she ask in a cool moment how it be that Captain Beauchamp have so

far forget himself as to burst out on his uncle before the guest of

the house. it appear that he have wish his uncle to withdraw with

he, and Mr. Romfrey have bid he postpone private communication.

Rosamund gather from one or two word of Cecilia’s that Mr. Romfrey,

until finally sting by Nevil, have indulge in his well-humour banter.









CHAPTER XXXIV.

the face of RENÉE





shortly before the ringing of the dinner-bell Rosamund knock at

Beauchamp’s dressing-room door, the bearer of a telegram from Bevisham.

he read it in one swift run of the eye, and say: “come in, ma’am, I

have something for you. Madame de Rouaillout send you this.”



Rosamund see her name write in a french hand on the back of the card.



“you stay with we, Nevil?”



“to-night and to-morrow, perhaps. the danger seem to be over.”



“have Dr. Shrapnel be in danger?”



“he have. if it’s quite over now!”



“I declare to you, Nevil...”



“listen to I, ma’am; I’m in the dark about this murderous business:—an

old man, defenceless, harmless as a child!—but I know this, that you

be somewhere in it.”



“Nevil, do you not guess at some one else?”



“he! yes, he! but Cecil Baskelett lead no blind man to Dr. Shrapnel’s

gate.”



“Nevil, as I live, I know nothing of it!”



“no, but you set fire to the train. you hate the old man, and you

teach Mr. Romfrey to think that you have be insult. I see it all.

now you must have the courage to tell he of your error. there’s no

other course for you. I mean to take Mr. Romfrey to Dr. Shrapnel, to

save the honour of our family, as far as it can be save.”



“what? nevil!” exclaim Rosamund, gape.



“it seem little enough, ma’am. but he must go. I will have the apology

speak, and man to man.”



“but you would never tell your uncle that?”



he laugh in his uncle’s manner.



“but, Nevil, my dearest, forgive I, I think of you—why be the

Halketts here? it be not entirely with Colonel Halkett’s consent. it be

your uncle’s influence with he that give you your chance. do you not

care to avail yourself of it? ever since he hear Dr. Shrapnel’s letter

to you, Colonel Halkett have, I be sure, be tempt to confound you

with he in his mind: ah! Nevil, but recollect that it be _only_ Mr.

Romfrey who can help to give you your Cecilia. there be no dispensing

with he. postpone your attempt to humiliate—I mean, that be, oh!

Nevil, whatever you intend to do to overcome your uncle, trust to time,

be friend with he; be a little worldly! for her sake! to ensure her

happiness!”



Beauchamp obtain the information that his cousin Cecil have read out

the letter of Dr. Shrapnel at Mount Laurels.



the bell ring.



“do you imagine I should sit at my uncle’s table if I do not intend to

force he to repair the wrong he have do to himself and to we?” he

say.



“oh! nevil, do you not see Captain Baskelett at work here?”



“what amend can Cecil Baskelett make? my uncle be a man of honour: it

be in his power. there, I leave you to speak to he; you will do it

to-night, after we break up in the drawing-room.”



Rosamund groan: “an apology to Dr. Shrapnel from Mr. Romfrey! it be

an impossibility, Nevil! utter!”



“so you say to sit idle: but do as I tell you.”



he go downstairs.



he have barely reproach she. she wonder at that; and then remember

his alien sad half-smile in quit the room.



Rosamund would not present herself at her lord’s dinner-table when

there be any guest at Steynham. she prepare to receive Miss Halkett

in the drawing-room, as the guest of the house this evening chance to

be her friend.



Madame de Rouaillout’s present to she be a photograph of M. de

Croisnel, his daughter and son in a group. Rosamund could not bear to

look at the face of Renée, and she put it out of sight. but she have

look. she be reduce to look again.



Roland stand beside his father’s chair; Renée sit at his foot, clasp

his right hand. M. de Croisnel’s fall eyelid and unshorn white chin

tell the story of the family reunion. he be die: his two child

be nurse he to the end.



Decidedly Cecilia be a more beautiful woman than Renée: but on which

do the eye linger long—which draw the heart? a radiant landscape,

where the tall ripe wheat flash between shadow and shine in the

stately march of Summer, or the peep into dewy woodland on to dark

water?



Dark-eyed Renée be not beauty but attraction; she touch the double

chord within we which be we know not whether harmony or discord, but

a divine discord if an uncertified harmony, memorable beyond plain

sweetness or majesty. there be touch of bliss in anguish that

superhumanize bliss, touch of mystery in simplicity, of the eternal

in the variable. these two chord of poignant antiphony she strike

throughout the range of the heart of man, and strangely intervolve

they in vibrate unison. only to look at her face, without hear she

voice, without the charm of her speech, be to feel it. on Cecilia’s

enter the drawing-room sofa, while the gentleman drink claret,

Rosamund hand she the card of the photographic artist of tour,

mention no name.



“I should say the portrait be correct. a want of spirituality,”

Rosamund say critically, use one of the insular commonplace, after

that manner of fasten upon what there be _not_ in a piece of art or

nature.



Cecilia’s avidity to see and study the face preserve she at a high

mark.



she know the person instantly; have no occasion to ask who this be. she

sit over the portrait blushing burningly: “and that be a brother?” she

say.



“that be her brother Roland, and very like she, except in complexion,”

say Rosamund.



Cecilia murmur of a general resemblance in the feature. Renée

enchain she. though but a sun-shadow, the vividness of this french

face come out surprisingly; air be in the nostril and speech fly

from the tremulous mouth. the eye? be they quiver with internal

light, or be they set to seem so in the sensitive strange curve of

the eyelid whose awakened lash appear to tremble on some

borderland between lustreful significance and the mist? she catch at

the nerve like certain aoristic combination in music, like tone of a

string instrument sweep by the wind, entice, unseizable. yet she

sit there at her father’s foot gaze out into the world indifferent to

spectator, indifferent even to the common sentiment of gracefulness.

her left hand clasp his right, and she support herself on the floor

with the other hand lean away from he, to the destruction of

conventional symmetry in the picture. none but a woman of consummate

breeding dare have do as she do. it be not southern suppleness

that save she from the charge of harsh audacity, but something of the

kind of genius in her mood which have hurry the great poet of sound

and speech to impose their naturalness upon accepted law, or show the

law to have be our meagre limitation.



the writer in this country will, however, be make safest, and the

excellent body of self-appoint thongman, who walk up and down our

rank flap their leathern strap to terrorize we from experiment

in imagery, will well be satisfy, by the statement that she be

indescribable: a term that exact no labour of mind from he or from

they, for it flow off the pen as readily as it fill a vacuum.



that posture of Renée displease Cecilia and fascinate she. in an

exhibition of painting she would have pass by it in pure

displeasure: but here be Nevil’s first love, the woman who love he;

and she be french. after a continue study of her Cecilia’s grow

jealousy betray itself in a conscious rivalry of race, come to the

admission that Englishwomen cannot fle themselves about on the floor

without agonize the grace: possibly, too, they cannot look

singularly without risk in the direction of slyness and brazen

archness; or talk animatedly without dip in slang. conventional

situation preserve they and interchange dignity with they; still life

befit they; pre-eminently that judicial seat from which in brief

speech they deliver their judgement upon their foreign sister.

Jealousy it be that pluck Cecilia from her majestic place and cause

she to envy in Renée thing she would otherwise have disapprove.



at last she have see the french lady’s likeness! the effect of it be a

horrid trouble in Cecilia’s cool blood, abasement, a sense of eclipse,

hardly any sense of deserve worthiness: “what be I but an heiress!”

Nevil have once call she beautiful; his praise have give her beauty.

but what be beauty when it be outshone! ask the owner of gem. you

think they rich; they be pine.



then, too, this Renée, who look electrical in repose, might really

love Nevil with a love that send her heart out to he in his

enterprise, justify and adore he, pierce to the hero in his

very thought. would she not see that his championship of the

unfortunate man Dr. Shrapnel be heroic?



Cecilia surrender the card to Rosamund, and it be out of sight when

Beauchamp step in the drawing-room. his cheek be flush; he have

be one against three for the well part of an hour.



“be you go to show I the down to-morrow morning?” Cecilia say to

he; and he reply, “you will have to be up early.”



“what’s that?” ask the colonel, at Beauchamp’s heel.



he be volunteer to join the party of two for the early morning’s

ride to the down. Mr. Romfrey press his shoulder, say, “there’s

no third horse can do it in my stable.”



Colonel Halkett turn to he.



“I have your promise to come over the kennel with I and see how I

treat a cry of mad dog, which be ninety-nine time out of a hundred mad

fool man,” Mr. Romfrey add.



by that the colonel know he mean to stand by Nevil still and offer he

his chance of win Cecilia.



having pledge his word not to interfere, Colonel Halkett submit,

and mutter, “ah! the kennel.” consider however what he have be

witnessing of Nevil’s behaviour to his uncle, the colonel be amazed at

Mr. Romfrey’s magnanimity in not cut he off and disown he.



“why the down?” he say.



“why the deuce, colonel?” a question quite as reasonable, and Mr.

Romfrey laugh under his breath. to relieve an uncertainty in

Cecilia’s face, that might soon have become confusion, he describe the

down front the paleness of early dawn, and then their arch and

curve and dip against the pearly grey of the half-glow; and then, among

their hollow, lo, the illumination of the East all around, and up and

away, and a gallop for mile along the turfy thymy rolling billow,

land to leave, sea to right, below you. “it’s the near hit to wing

we can make, Cecilia.” he surprise she with her christian name, which

kindle in she the secret of something he expect from that ride on

the down. compare you the Alps with they? if you could jump on the

back of an eagle, you might. the alp have height. but the down have

swiftness. those long stretch line of the down be greyhound in

full career. to look at they be to set the blood racing! speed be on

the down, glorious motion, odorous air of sea and herb, exquisite as

in the isle of Greece. and the Continental travel ninny leave

England for health!—run off and forth from the down to the steamboat,

the railway, the steam hotel, the tourist’s shiver mountain-top,

in search of sensation! there on the down the fine and lively

be at their bidding ready to fly through they like host of angel.



he speak somewhat in that strain, either to relieve Cecilia or prepare

the road for Nevil, not in his ordinary style; on the contrary, with a

swing of enthusiasm that seem to spring of ancient heartfelt

fervour. and indeed soon afterward he be tell she that there on

those down, in full view of Steynham, he and his wife have first join

hand.



Beauchamp sit silent. Mr. Romfrey despatch order to the stable, and

Rosamund to the kitchen. Cecilia be rather dismay by the formal

preparation for the ride. she decline the early cup of coffee. Mr.

Romfrey beg she to take it. “who know the hour when you’ll be

back?” he say. Beauchamp say nothing.



the room grow insufferable to Cecilia. she would have like to be

waft to her chamber in a veil, so shamefully unveiled do she seem to

be. but the french lady would have be happy in her place! her father

kiss she as father do when they hand the bride into the

travel-carriage. his “good-night, my darling!” be in the voice of

a soldier on duty. for a concluding sign that her dim apprehension

point correctly, Mr. Romfrey kiss she on the forehead. she could

not understand how it have come to pass that she find herself suddenly

on this incline, precipitate whither she would fain be go, only

less hurriedly, less openly, and with her secret merely peep, like a

dove in the breast.









CHAPTER XXXV.

the RIDE in the wrong direction





that pure opaque of the line of down ran luminously edge against the

pearly morning sky, with its dark landward face crepusculine yet clear

in every combe, every dot copse and furze-bush, every wavy fall,

and the ripple, crease, and rill-like descent of the turf. beauty of

darkness be there, as well as beauty of light above.



Beauchamp and Cecilia ride forth before the sun be over the line,

while the West and North-west side of the rolling down be stamp

with such firmness of dusky feature as you see on the indentation of a

shield of tarnish silver. the mounting of the sun behind throw an

obscurer gloom, and gradually a black mask overcome they, until the

ray shoot among their fold and winding, and shadow rich as the black

pansy, steady as on a dialplate round with the hour.



Mr. Everard Romfrey embrace this view from Steynham window, and love

it. the length of gigantic “greyhound back” course along the South

be his vision of delight; no image of repose for he, but of the life

in swiftness. he have know they when the great bird of the down be

not a mere tradition, and though he own conscientiously to never

have behold the bird, a certain mystery of holiness hang about the

region where the bird have be in his time. there, too, with a timely

word he have gain a wealthy and good wife. he have now send Nevil to do

the same.



this astute gentleman have catch at the idea of a ride of the young

couple to the down with his customary alacrity of perception as be

the very good arrangement for hurry they to the point. at Steynham

Nevil be sure to be howl all day over his tumbled joss Shrapnel.

once away in the heart of the down, and Cecilia beside he, it be a

matter of calculation that two or three hour of the sharpen air

would screw his human nature to the pitch. in fact, unless each of they

be reluctant, they could hardly return unbetrothed. Cecilia’s consent

be foreshadow by her submission in go: Mr. Romfrey have notice

her fright at the suggestive formality he cast round the expedition,

and feel sure of she. take Nevil for a man who could smell the

perfume of a ripe affirmative on the sweetest of lip, he be pretty

well sure of he likewise. and then a truce to all that radical rageing

and hot-pokering of the country! and lie in peace, old Shrapnel! and

get on your leg when you can, and offend no more; especially be

mindful not to let fly one word against a woman! with Cecilia for wife,

and a year of marriage devote to a son and heir, Nevil might be

expect to resume his duty as a naval officer, and win an honourable

name for the inheritance of the young one he kiss.



there be benevolence in these prevision of Mr. Romfrey, prove how

good it be for we to bow to despotic authority, if only we will bring

ourselves unquestioningly to accept the previous deed of the directing

hand.



Colonel Halkett give up his daughter for lose when she do not appear

at the breakfast-table: for yet more decidedly lose when the luncheon

see her empty place; and as time draw on toward the dinner-hour, he

begin to think she lose beyond hope, embark for good and all with the

madbrain. some little hope of a dissension between the pair, arise

from the natural antagonism of her strong sense to Nevil’s

extravagance, have buoy he until it be evident that they must have

alight at an inn to eat, which signify that they have overleap the

world and its hurdle, and be as dreamy a leash of lover as ever

make a dreamland of hard earth. the down look like dreamland through

the long afternoon. they shine as in a veil of silk—softly fair, softly

dark. no spot of harshness be on they save where a quarry

south-westward gape at the evening sun.



red light strike into that round chalk maw, and the green slope and

channel and half-circle hollow be bring a mile-stride nigher

Steynham by the level beam.



the poor old colonel fall to a more frequent repetition of the “well!”

with which he have be unconsciously express his perplexed mind in

the kennel and through the cover during the day. none of the

gentleman go to dress. Mr. Culbrett be indoor converse with

Rosamund Culling.



“what’s come to they?” the colonel ask of Mr. Romfrey, who say

shrug, “something wrong with one of the horse.” it have happen to

he on one occasion to set foot in the hole of a baked hedgehog that

have furnish a repast, not without succulence, to some shepherd of the

down. such a case might have recur; it be more likely to cause an

upset at a walk than at a gallop: or perhaps a shoe have be cast; and

young people break no bone at a walking fall; ten to one if they do at

their top speed. horse manage to kill their senior for they: the

young be exempt from accident.



Colonel Halkett nod and sigh: “I daresay they’re safe. it’s that

man Shrapnel’s letter—that letter, Romfrey! a private letter, I know;

but I’ve not hear Nevil disown the opinion express in it. I submit.

it’s no use resist. I treat my daughter as a woman capable of

judge for herself. I repeat, I submit. I haven’t a word against Nevil

except on the score of his politic. I like he. all I have to say be,

I don’t approve of a republican and a sceptic for my son-in-law. I

yield to you, and my daughter, if she...!”



“I think she do, colonel. Marriage’ll cure the fellow. nevil will

slough his craze. off! old coat. Cissy will drive he in string. ‘my

wife!’ I hear he.” Mr. Romfrey laugh quietly. “it’s all ‘my

country,’ now. the dog’ll be uxorious. he want fix; nothing bad.”



“how he go on about shrapnel!”



“I shouldn’t think much of he if he don’t.”



“you’re one in a thousand, Romfrey. I object to see a man

worship.”



“it’s Nevil’s green-sickness, and Shrapnel’s the god of it.”



“I trust to heaven you’re right. it seem to I young fellow ought to

be out of it early.”



“they generally be.” Mr. Romfrey name some of the process by which

they be relieve of brain-flightiness, add philosophically, “this

way or that.”



his quick ear catch a sound of hoof canter down the avenue on the

northern front of the house.



he consult his watch. “ten minute to eight. say a quarter-past for

dinner. they’re here, colonel.”



Mr. Romfrey meet Nevil return from the stable. Cecilia have

disappear.



“have a good day?” say Mr. Romfrey.



Beauchamp reply: “I’ll tell you of it after dinner,” and pass by

he.



Mr. Romfrey edge round to Colonel Halkett, conjecture in his mind:

they have not hit it; as he remark: “breakfast and luncheon have be

omit in this day’s fare,” which appear to the colonel a

confirmation of his bad fear, or rather the extinction of his last

spark of hope.



he knock at his daughter’s door in go upstairs to dress.



Cecilia present herself and kiss he.



“well?” say he.



“by-and-by, papa,” she answer. “I have a headache. beg Mr. Romfrey to

excuse I.”



“no news for I?”



she have no news.



Mrs. Culling be with she. the colonel step on mystify to his

room.



when the door have close Cecilia turn to Rosamund and burst into

tear. Rosamund feel that it must be something grave indeed for the

proud young lady so to betray a troubled spirit.



“he be ill—Dr. Shrapnel be very ill,” Cecilia respond to one or two

subdue inquiry in as clear a voice as she could command.



“where have you hear of he?” Rosamund ask.



“we have be there.”



“Bevisham? to Bevisham?” Rosamund be consider the opinion Mr.

Romfrey would form of the matter from the point of view of his horse.



“it be Nevil’s wish,” say Cecilia.



“yes? and you go with he,” Rosamund encourage she to proceed,

gladden at hear her speak of Nevil by that name; “you have not

be on the down at all?”



Cecilia mention a junction railway station they have ride to; and

thence, box the horse, by train to Bevisham. Rosamund understand

that some haunt anxiety have fret Nevil during the night; in the

morning he could not withstand it, and he beg Cecilia to change

their destination, apparently with a vehemence of entreaty that have

be irresistible, or else it be utter affection for he have reduce

she to undertake the distasteful journey. she admit that she be not

the most sympathetic companion Nevil could have have on the way, either

go or come. she have not enter Dr. Shrapnel’s cottage. remain

on horseback she have see the poor man recline in his garden chair.

Mr. Lydiard be with he, and also his ward Miss Denham, who have be

summon by telegraph by one of the servant from Switzerland. and

Cecilia have hear Nevil speak of his uncle to she, and too humbly, she

hint. nor have the expression of Miss Denham’s countenance in

listen to he please she; but it be true that a heavily burden

heart cannot be expect to look pleasing. on the way home Cecilia have

be compel in some degree to defend Mr. Romfrey. blush through

her tear at the remembrance of a past emotion that have be mix with

foresight, she confess to Rosamund she think it now too late to

prevent a rupture between Nevil and his uncle. have some one whom Nevil

trust and care for take counsel with he and advise he before

uncle and nephew meet to discuss this most unhappy matter, then there

might have be hope. as it be, the fate of Dr. Shrapnel have gain

entire possession of Nevil. every retort of his uncle’s in reference to

it rise up in he: he use language of contempt neighbouring

abhorrence: he stipulate for one sole thing to win back his esteem for

his uncle; and that be, the apology to Dr. Shrapnel.



“and to-night,” Cecilia conclude, “he will request Mr. Romfrey to

accompany he to Bevisham to-morrow morning, to make the apology in

person. he will not accept the slight evasion. he think Dr.

Shrapnel may die, and the honour of the family—what be it he say of

it?” Cecilia raise her eye to the ceiling, while Rosamund blink in

impatience and grief, just apprehend the alien state of the young

lady’s mind in her absence of recollection, as well as her bondage in

the effort to recollect accurately.



“have you not eat any food to-day, Miss Halkett?” she say; for it

might be the want of food which have break she and change her manner.



Cecilia reply that she have ride for an hour to Mount Laurels.



“alone? Mr. Romfrey must not hear of that,” say Rosamund.



Cecilia consent to lie down on her bed. she decline the dainty

Rosamund press on she. she be feverish with a deep and unconcealed

affliction, and behave as if her pride have go. but if her pride have

go she would have ease her heart by sob outright. a similar

division harass she as when her friend Nevil be the candidate for

Bevisham. she condemn his extreme wrath with his uncle, yet be

attract and enchain by the fire of passionate attachment which

arouse it: and she be conscious that she have but show obedience to

his wish throughout the day, not sympathy with his feeling. under

cover of a patient desire to please she have nurse irritation and

jealousy; the degradation of the sense of jealousy increase the

irritation. having consent to the ride to Dr. Shrapnel, should she

not, to be consistent, have dismount there? o half heart! a whole

one, though it be an erring, like that of the french lady, do at

least live, and have a history, and make music: but the faint and

uncertain be jarred in action, jar in memory, ever behind the day

and in the shadow of it! Cecilia review herself: jealous,

disappointed, vexed, ashamed, she have be all day a graceless

companion, a bad actress: and at the day’s close she be love Nevil

the well for what have dissatisfy, distressed, and wound she. she

be love he in emulation of his devotedness to another person: and

that other be a revolutionary common people’s doctor! an infidel, a

traitor to his country’s dear interest! but Nevil love he, and it

have become impossible for she not to covet the love, or to think of the

old offender without the halo cast by Nevil’s attachment be upon

he. so intensely be she move by her intertwiste reflection that

in an access of bodily fever she stand up and move before the glass,

to behold the image of the woman who could be the victim of these

childish emotion: and no wonderful contrast strike her eye; she

appear to herself as poor and small as they. how could she aspire to

a man like Nevil Beauchamp? if he have make she happy by woo she she

would not have adore he as she do now. he like my hair, she say,

smooth it out, and then press her temple, like one insane. two

minute afterward she be tell Rosamund her head ache less.



“this terrible Dr. Shrapnel!” Rosamund exclaim, but report that no

loud voice be raise in the dining-room.



Colonel Halkett come to see his daughter, full of anxiety and

curiosity. affair have be peaceful below, for he be ignorant of the

expedition to Bevisham. on hearing of it he frown, question Cecilia

as to whether she have set foot on that man’s ground, then say: “ah!

well, we leave to-morrow: I must go, I have business at home; I cann’t

delay it. I sanction no calling there, nothing of the kind. from

Steynham to Bevisham? Goodness, it’s rank madness. I’m not astonish

you’re sick and ill.”



he wait till he be assure Cecilia have no special matter to relate,

and recommend she to drink the tea Mrs. Culling have make for she,

and then go to bed and sleep, he go down to the drawing-room, charge

with the bad form of hostility toward Nevil, the partly diplomatic.



Cecilia smile at her father’s mention of sleep. she be in the contest

of the two man, however inanimately she might be lie overhead, and

the assurance in her mind that neither of they would give ground, so

similar be they in their tenacity of will, dissimilar in all else,

drag she this way and that till she sway lifeless between they.

one may be as a weed of the sea while one’s fate be be decide. to

love be to be on the sea, out of sight of land: to love a man like

Nevil Beauchamp be to be on the sea in temp. still to persist in

loving would be noble, and but for this humiliation of utter

helplessness an enviable power. her thought run thus in shame and

yearning and regret, dimly discern where her heart fail in the

strength which be Nevil’s, though it be a full heart, faithful and

not void of courage. but he never brood, he never blush from

insufficiency—the faintness of a desire, the callow passion that cannot

fly and feed itself: he never totter; he walk straight to his mark.

she set up his image and Renée’s, and cower under the heroical shape

till she feel almost extinct. with her weak limb and head worthlessly

pain, the little infantile I within she cease to wail, dwindle

beyond sensation. Rosamund, wait on she in the place of she maid,

see two big drop come through her closed eyelid, and think that if

it could be grant to Nevil to look for a moment on this fair and

proud young lady’s loveliness in abandonment, it would tame, melt, and

save he. the Gods preside over custom do not permit such renovating

sight to man.









CHAPTER xxxvi.

PURSUIT of the apology of Mr. ROMFREY to DR. SHRAPNEL





the contest, which be an alternation of hard hitting and close

wrestling, have recommence when Colonel Halkett step into the

drawing-room.



“Colonel, I find they’ve be gallop to Bevisham and back,” say Mr.

Romfrey.



“I’ve hear of it,” the colonel reply. not perceive a sign of

dissatisfaction on his friend’s face, he continue: “to that man

Shrapnel.”



“Cecilia do not dismount,” say Beauchamp.



“you take she to that man’s gate. it be not with my sanction. you know

my idea of the man.”



“if you be to see he now, colonel, I don’t think you would speak

harshly of he.”



“we’re not oblige to go and look on man who have have their measure

deal they.”



“barbarously,” say Beauchamp.



Mr. Romfrey in the most placid manner take a chair. “windy talk, that!”

he say.



Colonel Halkett seat himself. stukely Culbrett turn a sheet of

manuscript he be read.



Beauchamp begin a cage lion’s walk on the rug under the mantelpiece.



“I shall not spare you from hear what I think of it, sir.”



“we’ve have what you think of it twice over,” say Mr. Romfrey. “I

suppose it be the first time for information, the second time for

emphasis, and the rest count to keep it alive in your recollection.”



“this be what you have to take to heart, sir; that Dr. Shrapnel be now

seriously ill.”



“I’m sorry for it, and I’ll pay the doctor’s bill.”



“you make it hard for I to treat you with respect.”



“fire away. those radical friend of yours have to learn a lesson, and

it’s worth a purse to teach they that a lady, however feeble she may

seem to they, be exactly of the strength of the good man of her

acquaintance.”



“that’s well say!” come from Colonel Halkett.



Beauchamp stare at he, amazed by the commendation of empty language.



“you act in error; barbarously, but in error,” he address his

uncle.



“and you have get a fine topic for mouthing,” Mr. Romfrey rejoin.



“you mean to sit still under Dr. Shrapnel’s forgiveness?”



“he’s take to copy the christian religion, have he?”



“you know you be delude when you strike he.”



“not a whit.”



“yes, you know it now: Mrs. Culling—”



“drag in no woman, Nevil Beauchamp!”



“she have confess to you that Dr. Shrapnel neither insult she nor

mean to ruffle she.”



“she have do no such nonsense.”



“if she have not!—but I trust she to have do it.”



“you play the trumpeter, you terrorize she.”



“into open her lip wider; nothing else. I’ll have the truth from

she, and no mincing: and from Cecil Baskelett and Palmet.”



“give Cecil a second licking, if you can, and have he off to

Shrapnel.”



“you!” cry Beauchamp.



at this juncture stukely Culbrett close the manuscript in his hand,

and hold it out to Beauchamp, say:



“here’s your letter, Nevil. it’s tolerably hard to decipher. it’s mild

enough; it’s middle good pulpit. I like it.”



“what have you get there?” Colonel Halkett ask he.



“a letter of his friend Dr. Shrapnel on the Country. read a bit,

colonel.”



“I? that letter! mild, do you call it?” the colonel start back his

chair in decline to touch the letter.



“try it,” say stukely. “it’s the letter they have be make the

noise about. it ought to be print. there’s a hit or two at the

middle-class that I should like to see in print. it’s really not bad

pulpit; and I suspect that what you object to, colonel, be only the

dust of a well-thump cushion. shrapnel thump with his fist. he

don’t say much that’s new. if the parson be man they’d be say

it every Sunday. if they do, colonel, I should hear you say, amen.”



“wait till they do say it.”



“that’s a long stretch. they’re turn-cock of one water-company—to wash

the greasy citizen!”



“you’re keep Nevil on the gape;” say Mr. Romfrey, with a whimsical

shrewd cast of the eye at Beauchamp, who stand alert not to be foil,

arrow-like in look and readiness to repeat his home-shot. Mr. Romfrey

want to hear more of that unintelligible “you!” of Beauchamp’s. but

stukely Culbrett intend that the latter should be foil, and he

continue his diversion from the angry subject.



“we’ll drop the sacerdotal,” he say. “they’re behind a veil for we,

and so be we for they. I’m with you, colonel; I wouldn’t have they

persecute; they ste fearfully when whip. no one listen to they

now except the class that go to sleep under they, to ‘set an example’

to the class that cann’t understand they. shrapnel be like the breeze

shake the turf-grass outside the church-door; a trifle fresher. he

knock nothing down.”



“he cann’t!” ejaculate the colonel.



“he sermonize to shake, that’s all. I know the kind of man.”



“thank heaven, it’s not a common specie in England!”



“common enough to be class.”



Beauchamp strike through the conversation of the pair: “can I see you

alone to-night, sir, or to-morrow morning?”



“you may catch I where you can,” be Mr. Romfrey’s answer.



“where’s that? it’s for your sake and mine, not for Dr. Shrapnel’s. I

have to speak to you, and must. you have do your bad with he; you

cann’t undo it. you have to think of your honour as a gentleman. I

intend to treat you with respect, but wolf be the title now, whether I

say it or not.”



“Shrapnel’s a rather long-legged sheep?”



“he ask for nothing from you.”



“he would have get nothing, at a cry of peccavi!”



“he be innocent, perfectly blameless; he would not lie to save

himself. you mistook that for—but you be an engine shoot along a line

of rail. he do you the justice to say you act in error.”



“and you’re his parrot.”



“he pardon you.”



“ha! t’ other cheek!”



“you go on that brute’s errand in ignorance. will you keep to the

character now you know the truth? hesitation about it double the

infamy. an old man! the good of man! the kind and true! the most

unselfish!”



“he top I by half a head, and he’s my junior.”



Beauchamp suffer himself to give out a groan of sick derision: “ah!”



“and it be no joke hold he tight,” say Mr. Romfrey, “I’d as lief

snap an ash. the fellow (he lean round to Colonel Halkett) must be a

fellow of a fine constitution. and he take his punishment like a man.

I’ve know worse: and far bad: gentleman by birth. there’s the choice

of take it upright or fight like a rabbit with a weasel in his

hole. leave he to think it over, he’ll come right. I think no harm of

he, I’ve no animus. a man must have his lesson at some time of life. I

do what I have to do.”



“look here, Nevil,” stukely Culbrett check Beauchamp in season: “I

beg to inquire what Dr. Shrapnel mean by ‘the people.’ we have in our

country the noble and the squire, and after they, as I understand it,

the people: that’s to say, the middle-class and the working-class—fat

and lean. I’m quite with shrapnel when he lash the fleshpot. they

want it, and they don’t get it from ‘their organ,’ the Press. I fancy

you and I agree about their organ; the dismallest organ that ever

grind a hackneyed set of song and hymn to madden the thoroughfare.”



“the Press of our country!” interject Colonel Halkett in moan

parenthesis.



“it’s the week-day Parson of the middle-class, colonel. they have their

thinking do for they as the Chinese have their dancing. but, Nevil,

your Dr. Shrapnel seem to treat the trader as identical with the

aristocracy in opposition to his ‘people.’ the trader be the cursed

middleman, bad friend of the ‘people,’ and infernally treacherous to

the noble till money hoist they. it’s they who pull down the country.

they hold up the noble to the hatred of the democracy, and the

democracy to scare the noble. one’s when they want to swallow a

privilege, and the other’s when they want to ring-fence their gain.

how be it shrapnel don’t expose the trick? he must see through it. I

like that letter of his. People be one of your radical big word that

burst at a query. he cann’t mean Quince, and Bottom, and Starveling,

Christopher Sly, Jack Cade, Caliban, and poor old Hodge? no, no, Nevil.

our clown be the stupid in Europe. they cann’t cook their meal.

they cann’t spell; they can scarcely speak. they haven’t a jig in their

leg. and I believe they’re lose their grin! they’re nasty when their

blood’s up. Shakespeare’s Cade tell you what he think of

radicalize the people. ‘and as for your mother, I’ll make she a

duke’; that’s one of their song. the word people, in England, be a

dyspeptic agitator’s dream when he fall nod over the red chapter

of french history. who win the great liberty for England? my book

say, the noble. and who make the great stand later?—the squire. what

have the middleman do but bid for the people they despise and fear,

dishonour we abroad and make a hash of we at home? shrapnel see that.

only he have get the word people in his mouth. the people of England, my

dear fellow, want _head_. since the trader obtain power we have

be a country on all four. of course shrapnel see it: I say so. but

talk to he and teach he where to look for the rescue.”



Colonel Halkett say to stukely: “if you have have a clear idea in what

you have just speak, my head’s no place for it!”



stukely’s unusually lengthy observation have somewhat heat he, and

he protest with earnestness: “it be pure Tory, my dear colonel.”



but the habitually and professedly cynical should not deliver

themselves at length: for as soon as they miss their customary incision

of speech they be apt to aim to recover it in loquacity, and thus it

may be that the survey of their idea becomes disorder.



Mr. Culbrett endanger his reputation for epigram in a good cause, it

shall be say.



these interruption be torture to Beauchamp. nevertheless the end be

gain. he sink into a chair silent.



Mr. Romfrey wish to have it out with his nephew, of whose comic

appearance as a man full of thunder, and occasionally rattle, yet all

the while try to be decorous and politic, he be get tired. he

foresee that a tussle between they in private would possibly be too hot

for his temper, admirably under control though it be.



“why not drag Cecil to Shrapnel?” he say, for a provocation.



Beauchamp would not be goad.



Colonel Halkett remark that he would have to leave Steynham the next

day. his host remonstrate with he. the colonel say: “early.” he have

very particular business at home. he be positive, and decline every

inducement to stay. Mr. Romfrey glance at Nevil, think, you poor

fool! and then he determine to let the fellow have five minute alone

with he.



this occur at midnight, in that half-armoury, half-library, which

be his private room.



Rosamund hear their voice below. she cry out to herself that it be

her do, and blame her beloved, and her master, and Dr. Shrapnel, in

the breath of her self-recrimination. the demagogue, the

over-punctilious gentleman, the faint lover, surely it must be reason

want in the three for each of they in turn to lead the other, by an

excess of some sort of the quality constitute their man’s nature, to

wreck a calm life and stand in contention! have Shrapnel be commonly

reasonable he would have apologize to Mr. Romfrey, or have Mr. Romfrey,

he would not have resort to force to punish the suppose offender, or

have Nevil, he would have hold his peace until he have gain his bride.

as it be; the folly of the three knock at her heart, unite to

bring the heavy accusation against one poor woman, quite in the old

way: the who be she? of the mocking Spaniard at mention of a social

catastrophe. Rosamund have a great deal of the pride of her sex, and she

resent any slur on it. she feel almost superciliously toward Mr.

Romfrey and Nevil for their not take hand to denounce the plotter,

Cecil Baskelett. they seem a pair of victim to he, nearly as much

so as the wretched man Shrapnel. it be their senselessness which make

her guilty! and simply because she have utter two or three

exclamation of dislike of a revolutionary and infidel she be

compel to groan under her present oppression! be there anything to

be hope of man? Rosamund think bitterly of Nevil’s idea of their

progress. Heaven help they! but the unhappy creature have cease to

look to a heaven for help.



we see the consequence of it in this shrapnel complication.



three man: and one strike down; the other defeat in his benevolent

intention; the third sacrifice fortune and happiness: all three

owe their mischance to one or other of the vague idea disturb

man’s head! where shall we look for mother wit?—or say, common

suckle’s instinct? not to man, think Rosamund.



she be listen to the voice of Mr. Romfrey and Beauchamp in a

fever. ordinarily the lord of Steynham be not out of his bed later

than twelve o’clock at night. his door open at half-past one. not a

syllable be exchange by the couple in the hall. they have fight it

out. Mr. Romfrey come upstairs alone, and on the closing of his

chamber-door she slip down to Beauchamp and have a dreadful hour with

he that subdue her disposition to sit in judgement upon man. the

unavaile attempt to move his uncle have work he to the state in

which passionate thought pass into speech like heat to flame. Rosamund

strain her mental sight to gain a conception of his prodigious horror

of the treatment of Dr. Shrapnel that she might think he sane: and to

retain a vestige of comfort in her bosom she try to moderate and make

light of as much as she could conceive. between the two effort she have

no sense but that of helplessness. once more she be reduce to promise

that she would speak the whole truth to Mr. Romfrey, even to the fact

that she have experience a common woman’s jealousy of Dr. Shrapnel’s

influence, and have allude to he jealously, spitefully, and falsely.

there be no mercy in Beauchamp. he be for action at any cost, with

all the force he could gather, and without delay. he talk of

Cecilia as his uncle’s bride to he. Rosamund could hardly trust she

ear when he inform she he have tell his uncle of his determination to

compel he to accomplish the act of penitence. “be it prudent to say

it, Nevil?” she ask. but, as in his politic, he disdain prudence.

a monstrous crime have be commit, involve the honour of the

family. no subtlety of insinuation, no suggestion, could wean he from

the fix idea that the apology to Dr. Shrapnel must be speak by his

uncle in person.



“if one could only imagine Mr. Romfrey do it!” Rosamund groan.



“he shall: and you will help he,” say Beauchamp.



“if you love a woman half as much as you do that man!”



“if I know a woman as good, as wise, as noble as he!”



“you be lose she.”



“you expect I to go through ceremony of courtship at a time like

this! if she care for I she will feel with I. simple compassion—but

let Miss Halkett be. I’m afraid I overtaske she in take she to

Bevisham. she remain outside the garden. Ma’am, she be unsullie by

contact with a single shrub of Dr. Shrapnel’s territory.”



“do not be so bitterly ironical, Nevil. you have not see she as I

have.”



Rosamund essay a tender sketch of the fair young lady, and fancy

that she draw forth a sigh; she would have colour the sketch, but he

command she to hurry off to bed, and think of her morning’s work.



a commission of which we feel we can accurately forecast the

unsuccessful end be not likely to be undertake with an ardour that

might perhaps astound the presage mind with unexpected issue.

Rosamund fulfil her in the style of one who have learn a lesson,

and, exactly as she have anticipate, Mr. Romfrey accuse she of come

to he from a conversation with that fellow Nevil overnight. he

shrug and leave the house for his morning’s walk across the field.



Colonel Halkett and Cecilia behold he from the breakfast-room

return with Beauchamp, who have waylay he and be hammer his

part in the now endless altercation. it could be descry at any

distance; and how fine be Mr. Romfrey’s bearing!—truly noble by

contrast, as of a grave big dog worry by a small bark dog. there

be to an unsympathetic observer an intense vexatiousness in the

exhibition of such pertinacity. to a soldier accustom at a glance to

estimate power of attack and defence, this repeat puny assailing of

a fortress that require year of siege be in addition ridiculous. Mr.

Romfrey appear impregnable, and Beauchamp mad. “he’s foam again!”

say the colonel, and be only ultra-pictorial. “before breakfast!” be

a further slur on Beauchamp.



Mr. Romfrey be elevate by the extraordinary comicality of the notion

of the propose apology to height of humour beyond laughter, whence we

see the unbounded capacity of the general man for folly, and rather

commiserate than deride he. he be quite untroubled. it demand a

steady view of the other side of the case to suppose of one whose

control of his temper be perfect, that he could be in the wrong. he at

least do not think so, and Colonel Halkett rely on his common sense.

Beauchamp’s brow be smoulder heavily, except when he have to talk.

he look paleish and worn, and say he have be up early. Cecilia

guess that he have not be to bed.



it be dexterously contrive by her host, in spite of the colonel’s

manifest anxiety to keep they asunder, that she should have some

minute with Beauchamp out in the garden. Mr. Romfrey lead they out,

and then lead the colonel away to offer he a choice of pup of rare

breed.



“Nevil,” say Cecilia, “you will not think it presumption in I to give

you advice?”



her counsel to he be, that he should leave Steynham immediately, and

trust to time for his uncle to reconsider his conduct.



Beauchamp urge the counter-argument of the stain on the family honour.



she hint at expediency; he frankly repudiate it.



the down face they, where the heavenly vast “might have be” of

yesterday wander thin than a shadow of to-day; weave a story

without beginning, crisis, or conclusion, flowerless and fruitless, but

with something of infinite in it sweet to brood on than the future of

her life to Cecilia.



“if meanwhile Dr. Shrapnel should die, and repentance come too late!”

say Beauchamp.



she have no clear answer to that, save the hope of its be an

unfounded apprehension. “as far as it be in my power, Nevil, I will

avoid injustice to he in my thought.”



he gaze at she thankfully. “well,” say he, “that’s like sight the

cliff. but I don’t feel home round I while the colonel be so

strangely prepossess. for a high-spirited gentleman like your father

to approve, or at least accept, an act so barbarous be

incomprehensible. speak to he, Cecilia, will you? let he know your

idea.”



she assent. he say instantly, “persuade he to speak to my uncle

Everard.”



she be tempt to smile.



“I must do only what I think wise, if I be to be of service, Nevil.”



“true, but paint that scene to he. an old man, utterly defenceless,

make no defence! a cruel error. the colonel cann’t, or he don’t,

clearly get it inside he, otherwise I’m certain it would revolt he:

just as I be certain my uncle Everard be at this moment a stone-blind

man. if he have do a thing, he cann’t question it, willn’t examine it.

the thing become a part of he, as much as his hand or his head. he’s

a man of the twelfth century. your father might be help to understand

he first.”



“yes,” she say, not very warmly, though sadly.



“tell the colonel how it must have be bring about. for Cecil

Baskelett call on Dr. Shrapnel two day before Mr. Romfrey stand at

his gate.”



the name of Cecil cause she to draw in her shoulder in a

half-shudder. “it may indeed be Captain Baskelett who set this cruel

thing in motion!”



“then point that out to your father, say he, perceive a chance of

win she to his view through a concrete object of her dislike, and

cool toward the woman who betray a vulgar characteristic of her

sex; who be merely woman, unable sternly to recognize the doing of a

foul wrong because of her antipathy, until another antipathy

enlighten she.



he want in fact a ready-make heroine, and do not give her credit for

the absence of fire in her blood, as well as for the unexercised

imagination which exclude young woman from the power to realize

unwonted circumstance. we man walk about the world have perhaps no

more imagination of matter not domestic than they; but what we have be

quick with experience: we see the thing we hear of: woman come to it

how they can.



Cecilia be recommend to weave a narrative for her father, and

ultimately induce he, if she could, to give a gentleman’s opinion of

the case to Mr. Romfrey.



her sensitive ear catch a change of tone in the direction she

receive. “your father will say so and so: answer he with this and

that.” Beauchamp supply she with phrase. she be to renew and renew

the attack; hammer as he do. yesterday she have follow he: to-day

she be to march beside he—hardly as an equal. patience! be the word

she would have utter in her detection of the one frailty in his

nature which this hurrying of she off her foot open her eye to with

unusual perspicacity. still she lean to he sufficiently to admit

that he have ground for a deep disturbance of his feeling.



he say: “I go to Dr. Shrapnel’s cottage, and don’t know how to hold up

my head before Miss Denham. she confide he to I when she leave for

Switzerland!”



there be that to be think of, certainly.



Colonel Halkett come round a box-bush and discover they pace

together in a fashion to satisfy his paternal scrutiny.



“I’ve be call you several time, my dear,” he complain. “we

start in seven minute. Bustle, and bonnet at once. Nevil, I’m sorry

for this business. good-bye. be a good boy, Nevil,” he murmur

kindheartedly, and shake Beauchamp’s hand with the cordiality of an

extreme relief in leave he behind.



the colonel and Mr. Romfrey and Beauchamp be stand on the

hall-step when Rosamund beckon the latter and whisper a request

for _that letter_ of Dr. Shrapnel’s. “it be for Miss Halkett, Nevil.”



he pluck the famous epistle from his bulging pocketbook, and add a

couple of other in the same handwriting.



“tell she, a first reading—it’s difficult to read at first,” he say,

and burn to read it to Cecilia himself: to read it to she with his

comment and explanation appear imperative. it strike he in a flash

that Cecilia’s counsel to he to quit Steynham for awhile be good. and

if he go to Bevisham he would be assure of Dr. Shrapnel’s condition:

note and telegram from the cottage be too much temper to console

and deceive he.



“send my portmanteau and bag after I to Bevisham,” he say to

Rosamund, and announce to the woefully astonished colonel that he

would have the pleasure of journeying in his company as far as the

town.



“be you ready? no packing?” say the colonel.



“it’s well to have your impediment in the rear of you, and march!”

say Mr. Romfrey.



Colonel Halkett decline to wait for anybody. he shout for his

daughter. the lady’s maid appear, and then Cecilia with Rosamund.



“we cann’t entertain you, Nevil; we’re away to the island: I’m sorry,”

say the colonel; and observe Cecilia’s face in full crimson, he

look at she as if he have lose a battle by the turn of event at the

final moment.



Mr. Romfrey hand Cecilia into the carriage. he exchange a friendly

squeeze with the colonel, and offer his hand to his nephew. beauchamp

pass he with a nod and “good-bye, sir.”



“have ready at Holdesbury for the middle of the month,” say Mr.

Romfrey, unruffled, and bow to Cecilia.



“if you think of bring my cousin Baskelett, give I warning, sir,”

cry Beauchamp.



“give I warning, if you want the house for Shrapnel,” reply his

uncle, and remark to Rosamund, as the carriage wheel round the

mound laurel to the avenue, “he mayn’t be quite crack. the fellow

seem to have a turn for catch his opportunity by the tail. he have

well hold fast, for it’s his last.”









CHAPTER XXXVII.

CECILIA CONQUERED





the carriage roll out of the avenue and through the park, for some

time parallel with the wavy down. once away from Steynham Colonel

Halkett breathe freely, as if he have drop a load: he be free of

his bond to Mr. Romfrey, and so great be the sense of relief in he

that he resolve to do battle against his daughter, suppose she still

lively blush to be the sign of the enemy’s flag run up on a surrendered

citadel. his authority be now to be think of: his paternal sanction

be in his own keeping. beautiful as she look, it be hardly credible

that a fellow in possession of his reason could have let slip his

chance of such a prize; but whether he have or have not, the colonel feel

that he occupy a position enable he either to out-manœuvre, or, if

need be, interpose forcibly and punish he for his half-heartedness.



Cecilia look the lovely of woman to Beauchamp’s eye, with her

blush, and the letter of Dr. Shrapnel in her custody, at her express

desire. certain term in the letter here and there, unsweet to lady,

begin to trouble his mind.



“by the way, colonel,” he say, “you have a letter of Dr. Shrapnel’s

read to you by Captain Baskelett.”



“iniquitous rubbish!”



“with his comment on it, I dare say you think it so. I willn’t speak

of his right to make it public. he want to produce his impression of

it and I, and that be a matter between he and I. Dr. Shrapnel make

use of strong word now and then, but I undertake to produce a totally

different impression on you by read the letter myself—spare you”

(he turn to Cecilia) “a word or two, common enough to man who write

in black earnest and have humour.” he cite his old favourite, the

black and bright lecturer on Heroes. “you have read he, I know,

Cecilia. well, Dr. Shrapnel be another, who write in his own style,

not the lead-article style or modern pulpit stuff. he write to

rouse.”



“he do that to my temper,” say the colonel.



“perhaps here and there he might offend Cecilia’s taste,” Beauchamp

pursue for her behoof. “everything depend on the mouthpiece. I should

not like the letter to be read without my being by;—except by man: any

just-minded man may read it: Seymour Austin, for example. every line be

a text to the mind of the writer. let I call on you to-morrow.”



“to-morrow?” Colonel Halkett put on a thoughtful air. “to-morrow we’re

off to the island for a couple of day; and there’s Lord Croyston’s

garden party, and the Yacht Ball. come this evening-dine with we. no

reading of letter, please. I cann’t stand it, Nevil.”



the invitation be necessarily decline by a gentleman who could not

expect to be follow by supply of clothe and linen for evening wear

that day.



“ah, we shall see you some day or other,” say the colonel.



Cecilia be less alive to Beauchamp’s endeavour to prepare she for the

harsh word in the letter than to her father’s insincerity. she would

have ask her friend to come in the morning next day, but for the

dread of deepen her blush.



“do you intend to start so early in the morning, papa?” she venture to

say; and he reply, “as early as possible.”



“I don’t know what news I shall have in Bevisham, or I would engage to

run over to the island,” say Beauchamp, with a flattering persistency

or singular obtuseness.



“you will dance,” he subsequently observe to Cecilia, out of the heart

of some reverie. he have be her admire partner on the night before

the drive from Itchincope into Bevisham, and perhaps think of her

graceful dancing at the Yacht Ball, and the contrast it would present

to his watch beside a sick man—strike down by one of his own family.



she could have answer, “not if you wish I not to”; while smile at

the quaint sorrowfulness of his tone.



“Dance!” quoth Colonel Halkett, whose present temper discern a

healthy antagonism to misanthropic Radicals in the performance, “all

young people dance. have you give over dancing?”



“not entirely, colonel.”



Cecilia dance with Mr. Tuckham at the Yacht Ball, and be vividly

mindful of every slight incident lead to and succeed her lover’s

abrupt, “you will dance”: which have all pass by her dream-like up to

that hour: his attempt to forewarn she of the phrase she would deem

objectionable in Dr. Shrapnel’s letter; his mild acceptation of her

father’s hostility; his adieu to she, and his melancholy departure on

foot from the station, as she drive away to Mount Laurels and gaiety.

why do I dance? she ask herself. it be not in the spirit of

happiness. her heart be not with Dr. Shrapnel, but very near he, and

heavy as a chamber of the sick. she be afraid of her father’s

favourite, imagine, from the colonel’s unconcealed opposition to

Beauchamp, that he have design in the interest of Mr. Tuckham. but the

hearty gentleman scatter her secret terror by his bluffness and

openness. he ask she to remember that she have recommend he to

listen to Seymour Austin, and he have do so, he say. undoubtedly he

be much improve, much less overbearing.



he win her confidence by praise and love her father, and when she

allude to the wonderful service he have render on the Welsh estate,

he say simply that her father’s thank repay he. he recall his

former downrightness only in speak of the case of Dr. Shrapnel, upon

which, both with the colonel and with she, he be unreservedly

condemnatory of Mr. Romfrey. Colonel Halkett’s defence of the true

knight and guardian of the reputation of lady, fall to piece in the

presence of Mr. Tuckham. he have see Dr. Shrapnel, on a visit to Mr.

Lydiard, whom he describe as hang about Bevisham, philander as a

married man should not, though in truth he might soon expect to be

release by the death of his crazy wife. the doctor, he say, have be

severely shake by the monstrous assault make on he, and have be most

unrighteously handle. the doctor be an inoffensive man in his private

life, detestable and dangerous though his teaching be. outside

politic Mr. Tuckham go altogether with Beauchamp. he promise also

that old Mrs. Beauchamp should be accurately inform of the state of

matter between Captain Beauchamp and Mr. Romfrey. he leave Mount

Laurels to go back in attendance on the venerable lady, without once

afflict Cecilia with a shiver of well-found apprehension, and she

be grateful to he almost to friendly affection in the vanishing of

her unjust suspicion, until her father hint that there be the man of

his heart. then she close all avenue to her own.



a period of maidenly distress not previously unknown to she ensue.

proposal of marriage be address to she by two untitled gentleman,

and by the Earl of Lockrace: three within a fortnight. the recognition

of the young heiress’s beauty at the Yacht Ball be accountable for the

burst out of these fire. her father would not have deplore she

acceptance of the title of Countess of Lockrace. in the matter of

rejection, however, her will be paramount, and he be on her side

against relative when the subject be debate among they. he call

her attention to the fact impressively, tell she that she should not

hear a syllable from he to persuade she to marry: the emphasis of

which strike the unspoken warning on her intelligence: bring no man to

I of whom I do not approve!



“worthy of you, _as I hope to become_,” Beauchamp have say. Cecilia

light on that part of Dr. Shrapnel’s letter where “fight this out within

you,” distinctly allude to the unholy love. could she think ill of the

man who thus advise he? she share Beauchamp’s painful feeling for

he in a sudden tremour of her frame; as it be through his touch. to

the rest of the letter her judgement stand opposed, save when a

sentence here and there remind she of Captain Baskelett’s insolent

sing-song declamation of it: and that would have turn Sacred Writing

to absurdity.



Beauchamp have mention Seymour Austin as one to whom he would

willingly grant a perusal of the letter. Mr. Austin come to Mount

Laurels about the close of the yacht season, shortly after Colonel

Halkett have spend his customary day of September shooting at Steynham.

Beauchamp’s folly be the colonel’s theme, for the fellow have drag

Lord Palmet there, and drive his uncle out of patience. Mr. Romfrey’s

monumental patience have be exhaust by he. the colonel boil over

with account of Beauchamp’s behaviour toward his uncle, and Palmet,

and Baskelett, and Mrs. Culling: how he fly at and worry everybody

who seem to he to have have a hand in the proper chastisement of that

man Shrapnel. that pestiferous letter of Shrapnel’s be animadvert

on, of course; and, “I should like you to have hear it, Austin,” the

colonel say, “just for you to have a notion of the kind of universal

blow-up those man be scheme, and would hoist we with, if they could

get a little more blasting-powder than they mill in their lunatic

head.”



now Cecilia wish for Mr. Austin’s opinion of Dr. Shrapnel; and as the

delicate state of her inclination make she conscious that to give he

the letter covertly would be to betray they to he, who have once, not

know it, move she to think of a possible great change in her life,

she muster courage to say, “Captain Beauchamp at my request lend I

the letter to read; I have it, and other write by Dr. Shrapnel.”



her father hum to himself, and immediately beg Seymour Austin not

to waste his time on the stuff, though he have no idea that a perusal of

it could awaken other than the grave reprehension in so rational a

Tory gentleman.



Mr. Austin read the letter through. he ask to see the other letter

mention by Cecilia, and read they calmly, without a frown or an

interjection. she sit sketch, her father devour newspaper

column.



“it’s the writing of a man who mean well,” Mr. Austin deliver his

opinion.



“why, the man’s an infidel!” Colonel Halkett exclaim.



“there be number.”



“they have the grace not to confess, then.”



“it’s as well to know what the world’s make of, colonel. the clergy

shut their eye. there’s no treat a disease without read it; and

if we be to acknowledge a ‘vice,’ as Dr. Shrapnel would say of the

so-call middle-class, it be the smirking over what they think, or

their not care to think at all. too many time-server rot the State.

I can understand the effect of such writing on a mind like Captain

Beauchamp’s. it would do no harm to our young man to have those letter

read publicly and lecture on—by competent person. half the thinking

world may think pretty much the same on some point as Dr. Shrapnel;

they be too wise or too indolent to say it: and of the other half,

about a dozen member would be competent to reply to he. he be the

earnest man, and fly at politic as uneasy young brain fly to

literature, fancy they can write because they can write with a pen.

he perceive a bad adjustment of thing: which be correct. he be

honest, and take his honesty for a virtue: and that entitle he to

believe in himself: and that belief cause he to see in all opposition

to he the wrong he have perceive in exist circumstance: and so in

a dream of power he invoke the people: and as they do not stir, he

take to prophecy. this be the round of the politic of impatience. the

study of politic should be guide by some light of statesmanship,

otherwise it come to this wild preaching.



these man be theory-tailor, not politician. they be the man who

make the ‘strait-waistcoat for humanity.’ they would fix we to first

principle like tethered sheep or hobbled horse. I should enjoy

reply to he, if I have time. the whole letter be compose of

variation upon one idea. still I must say the man interest I; I

should like to talk to he.”



Mr. Austin pay no heed to the colonel’s “dear I! dear I!” of

amazement. he say of the style of the letter, that it be the puffing

of a giant: a strong wind rather than speech: and beg Cecilia to

note that man who labour to force their dream on mankind and turn

vapour into fact, usually adopt such a style. hear that this private

letter have be deliberately read through by Mr. Romfrey, and hand by

he to Captain Baskelett, who have read it out in various place, Mr.

Austin say:



“a strange couple!” he appear perplex by his old friend’s approval

of they. “there we decidedly differ,” say he, when the case of Dr.

Shrapnel be relate by the colonel, with a refusal to condemn Mr.

Romfrey. he pronounce Mr. Romfrey’s charge against Dr. Shrapnel,

take in conjunction with his conduct, to be baseless, childish, and

wanton. the colonel would not see the case in that light; but Cecilia

do. it be a justification of Beauchamp; and how could she ever have

be blind to it?—scarcely blind, she remember, but sensitively

blink her eyelid to distract her sight in contemplate it, and to

preserve her repose. as to Beauchamp’s demand of the apology, Mr.

Austin consider that it might be an instance of his want of knowledge

of man, yet could not be call silly, and to call it insane be the

rhetoric of an adversary.



“I do call it insane,” say the colonel.



he separate himself from his daughter by a sharp division.



have Beauchamp appear at Mount Laurels, Cecilia would have be ready

to support and encourage he, boldly. back by Mr. Austin, she see

some good in Dr. Shrapnel’s writing, much in Beauchamp’s devotedness.

he shine clear to her reason, at last: partly because her father in his

opposition to he do not, but be on the contrary unreasonable, case

in mail, mentally clouded. she sit with Mr. Austin and her father,

try repeatedly, in obedience to Beauchamp’s command, to bring the

latter to a just contemplation of the unhappy case; behaviour on her

part which render the colonel inveterate.



Beauchamp at this moment be occupy in do secretary’s work for Dr.

Shrapnel. so Cecilia learn from Mr. Lydiard, who come to pay his

respect to Mrs. Wardour-Devereux at Mount Laurels. the pursuit of the

apology be continue in letter to his uncle and occasional interview

with he, which be by no mean instigate by the doctor, Mr. Lydiard

inform the lady. he describe Beauchamp as act in the spirit of

a man who have swear an oath to abandon every pleasure in life, that he

may, as far as it lie in his power, indemnify his friend for the wrong

do to he.



“such man be too terrible for I,” say Mrs. Devereux.



Cecilia think the reverse: not for I! but she feel a strain upon she

nature, and she be miserable in her alienation from her father.

kiss he one night, she lay her head on his breast, and beg his

forgiveness. he embrace she tenderly. “wait, only wait; you will see I

be right,” he say, and prudently say no more, and do not ask she to

speak.



she be glad that she have seek the reconciliation from her heart’s

natural warmth, on hear some time later that M. de Croisnel be

dead, and that Beauchamp meditate start for France to console his

Renée. her continual agitation make she doubtful of her human

feeling: she cling to that instance of her filial stedfastness.



the day before Cecilia and her father leave Mount Laurels for their

season in Wales, Mr. Tuckham and Beauchamp come together to the house,

and be closet an hour with her father. Cecilia sit in the

drawing-room, think that she do indeed wait, and have great

patience. Beauchamp enter the room alone. he look worn and thin, of

a leaden colour, like the cloud that bear the bolt. News have reach

he of the death of Lord Avonley in the hunting-field, and he be go

on to Steynham to persuade his uncle to accompany he to Bevisham and

wash the guilt of his wrong-do off he before apply for the

title. “you would advise I not to go?” he say. “I must. I should be

dishonour myself if I let a chance pass. I run the risk of be a

beggar: I’m all but one now.”



Cecilia falter: “do you see a chance?”



“hardly more than an excuse for try it,” he reply.



she give he back Dr. Shrapnel’s letter. “I have read they,” be all

she say. for he might have just return from France, with the breath

of Renée about he, and her pride would not suffer she to melt he in

rivalry by say what she have be lead to think of the letter.



hear nothing from she, he silently put they in his pocket. the

struggle with his uncle seem to be sour he or deaden he.



they be not alone for long. Mr. Tuckham present himself to take his

leave of she. Old Mrs. Beauchamp be die, and he have only come to

Mount Laurels on special business. beauchamp be just as anxious to

hurry away.



her father find she sit in the solitude of a drawing-room at

midday, pale-face, with unoccupied finger, not even a book in her

lap.



he walk up and down the room until Cecilia, to say something, say:

“Mr. Tuckham could not stay.”



“no,” say her father; “he could not. he have to be back as quick as he

can to cut his legacy in half!”



Cecilia look perplexed.



“I’ll speak plainly,” say the colonel. “he see that Nevil have ruin

himself with his uncle. the old lady willn’t allow Nevil to visit she; in

her condition it would be an excitement beyond her strength to bear.

she send Blackburn to bring Nevil here, and give he the option of

state before I whether those report about his misconduct in France

be true or not. he demur at first: however, he say they be not

true. he would have run away with the Frenchwoman, and he would have

fight the duel: but he do neither. her brother run ahead of he and

fight for he: so he declare and she wouldn’t run. so the report be

false. we shall know what Blackburn make of the story when we hear of

the legacy. I have be oblige to write word to Mrs. Beauchamp that I

believe Nevil to have make a true statement of the fact. but I

distinctly say, and so I tell Blackburn, I don’t think money will do

Nevil Beauchamp a farthe’s worth of good. blackburn follow his own

counsel. he induce the old lady to send he; so I suppose he intend

to let she share the money between they. I think well of he; I

think he a wise man.”



Gratitude to Mr. Tuckham on Beauchamp’s behalf cause Cecilia to praise

he, in the tone of compliment. the difficulty of seriously admire

two gentleman at once be a feminine dilemma, with the maidenly among

woman.



“he have disappoint I,” say Colonel Halkett.



“would you have have he allow a falsehood to enrich he and ruin Nevil,

papa?”



“my dear child, I’m sick to death of romantic fellow. I take blackburn

for one of our solid young man. why should he share his aunt’s

fortune?”



“you mean, why should Nevil have money?”



“well, I do mean that. besides, the story be not false as far as his

intention go: he confess it, and I ought to have put it in a

postscript. if Nevil want money, let he learn to behave himself like

a gentleman at Steynham.”



“he have not fail.”



“I’ll say, then, behave himself, simply. he consider it a point of

honour to get his uncle Everard to go down on his knee to Shrapnel.

but he have no moral sense where I should like to see it: none: he

confess it.”



“what be his word, papa?”



“I don’t remember word. he run over to France, whenever it suit he,

to carry on there...” the colonel end in a hum and buzz.



“have he be to France lately?” ask Cecilia.



her breath hang for the answer, sedately though she sit.



“the woman’s father be dead, I hear,” Colonel Halkett remark.



“but he have not be there?”



“how can I tell? he’s anywhere, wherever his passion whisk he.”



“no!”



“I say, yes. and if he have money, we shall see he go sky-high and

scatter it in spark, not merely spend; I mean live immorally,

infidelizing, republicanize, scandalize his class and his country.”



“oh no!” exclaim Cecilia, rise and move to the window to feast

her eye on drive cloud, in a strange exaltation of mind, secretly

sure now that her idea of Nevil’s having go over to France be

groundless; and feel that she have be unworthy of he who strove to

be “worthy of she, as he hope to become.”



Colonel Halkett scoff at she “oh no,” and call it woman’s logic.



she could not restrain herself. “have you forget Mr. Austin, papa?

it be Nevil’s perfect truthfulness that make he appear bad to you

than man who be timeserver. too many time-server rot the State, Mr.

Austin say. Nevil be not one of they. I be not able to judge or

speculate whether he have a great brain or be likely to distinguish

himself out of his profession: I would rather he do not abandon it:

but Mr. Austin say to I in talk of he...”



“that notion of Austin’s of screw woman’s mind up to the pitch of

man’s!” interject the colonel with a despairing flap of his arm.



“he say, papa, that honestly active man in a country, who decline to

practise hypocrisy, show that the blood run, and be a sign of

health.”



“you misunderstood he, my dear.”



“I think I thoroughly understand he. he do not call they wise. he

say they might be dangerous if they be not meet in debate. but he

say, and I presume to think truly, that the reason why they be

decried be, that it be too great a trouble for a lazy world to meet

they. and, he say, the reason why the honest faction agitate be

because they encounter sneer until they appear in force. if they be

meet early, and fairly—I be only quote he—they would not, I think

he say, or would hardly, or would not generally, fall into

professional agitation.”



“Austin’s a speculative Tory, I know; and that’s his weakness,”

observe the colonel. “but I’m certain you misunderstood he. he never

would have call we a lazy people.”



“not in matter of business: in matter of thought.”



“my dear Cecilia! you’ve get hold of a language!... a way of speak!

.... who set you think on these thing?”



“that I owe to Nevil Beauchamp!”



Colonel Halkett indulge in a turn or two up and down the room. he

throw open a window, sniff the moist air, and go to his daughter to

speak to she resolutely.



“between a Radical and a Tory, I don’t know where your head have be

whirl to, my dear. your heart seem to be go: more sorrow for we!

and for Nevil Beauchamp to be pretend to love you while carry on

with this Frenchwoman!”



“he have never say that he love I.”



the splendour of her beauty in humility flash on her father, and he

cry out: “you be too good for any man on earth! we willn’t talk in the

dark, my darling. you tell I he have never, as they say, make love to

you?”



“never, papa.”



“well, that prove the french story. at any rate, he’s a man of honour.

but you love he?”



“the french story be untrue, papa.”



Cecilia stand in a blush like the burn cloud of the sunset.



“tell I frankly: I’m your father, your old dada, your friend, my dear

girl! do you think the man care for you, love you?”



she reply: “I know, papa, the french story be untrue.”



“but when I tell you, silly woman, he confess it to I out of his own

mouth!”



“it be not true now.”



“it’s not go on, you mean? how do you know?”



“I know.”



“have he be swear it?”



“he have not speak of it to I.”



“here I be in a woman’s web!” cry the colonel. “be it your instinct

tell you it’s not true? or what? what? you have not deny that you

love the man.”



“I know he be not immoral.”



“there you shoot again! haven’t you a yes or a no for your father?”



Cecilia cast her arm round his neck, and sob.



she could not bring it to her lip to say (she would have shun the

hearing) that her defence of Beauchamp, which be a shadowed avowal of

the state of her heart, be base on his desire to read to her the

conclusion of Dr. Shrapnel’s letter touch a passion to be overcome;

necessarily therefore a passion that be vanquish, and the full

and brave explanation of his shift treatment of she: nor would she

condescend to urge that her lover would have say he love she when

they be at Steynham, but for the misery and despair of a soul too

noble to be divert from his grief and sense of duty, and, as she

believe, unwilling to speak to win she while his material fortune be

in jeopardy.



the colonel cherish she on his breast, with one hand regularly

pat her shoulder: a form of consolation that cure the disposition

to sob as quickly as would the drip of water.



Cecilia look up into his eye, and say, “we will not be part,

papa, ever.”



the colonel say absently: “no”; and, surprised at himself, add: “no,

certainly not. how can we be part? you willn’t run away from I? no,

you know too well I cann’t resist you. I appeal to your judgement, and I

must accept what you decide. but he be immoral. I repeat that. he have

no root. we shall discover it before it’s too late, I hope.”



Cecilia gaze away, breathe through tremulous dilating nostril.



“one night after dinner at Steynham,” pursue the colonel, “Nevil be

rattle against the Press, with Stukely Culbrett to prime he: and he

say editor of paper be grow to be like priest, and as timid as

priest, and arrogant: and for one thing, it be because they suppose

themselves to be guardian of the national morality. I forget exactly

what the matter be: but he sneer at priest and morality.”



a smile weave round Cecilia’s lip, and in her tower superiority to

one who talk nonsense, she slip out of maiden shame and say:

“Attack Nevil for his political heresy and his wrath with the Press

for not print he. the rest concern his honour, where he be quite

safe, and all be who trust he.”



“if you find out you’re wrong?”



she shake her head.



“but if you find out you’re wrong about he,” her father reiterate

piteously, “you willn’t tear I to strip to have he in spite of it?”



“no, papa, not I. I will not.”



“well, that’s something for I to hold fast to,” say Colonel Halkett,

sigh.









CHAPTER XXXVIII.

LORD AVONLEY





Mr. Everard Romfrey be now, by consent, Lord Avonley, mount on his

direct heirship and ride hard at the earldom. his elevation occur

at a period of life that would have be a season of decay with most

man; but the prolonged and lusty Autumn of the veteran take new fire

from a tangible object to live for. his brother Craven’s death have

slightly stupefy, and it have grieve he: it seem to he peculiarly

pathetic; for as he never calculate on the happening of mortal

accident to man of sound constitution, the circumstance impart a

curious shake to his own solidity. it be like the quaking of earth,

which try the balance of the strong. if he have not be raise to

so splendid a survey of the actual world, he might have be lead to

think of the imaginary, where perchance a man may meet his old dog and

a few other favourite, in a dim perpetual twilight. Thither at all

event Craven have go, and goodnight to he! the earl be a rapidly

lapsing invalid. there could be no doubt that Everard be to be the

head of his House.



outwardly he be the same tolerant gentleman who put aside the poor

fool of the world to walk undisturbed by they in the path he have

choose: in this aspect he know himself: nor be the change so great

within he as to make he cognizant of a change. it be only a secret

turn in the bent of the mind, imperceptible as the touch of the cunning

artist’s brush on a finished portrait, which will alter the expression

without discompose a feature, so that you cannot say it be another

face, yet it be not the former one. his habit be invariable, as be

his meditation. he think less of Romfrey Castle than of his dog and

his device for trap vermin; his interest in bird and beast and

herb, “what ninny call Nature in book,” to quote he, be

undiminishe; imagination he have none to clap wing to his head and be

off with it. he betray as little as he feel that the come Earl of

Romfrey be different from the cadet of the family.



a novel sharpness in the “stop that,” with which he crush Beauchamp’s

affectedly gentle and unusually roundabout opening of the vex

shrapnel question, rang like a shot in the room at Steynham, and

breathe a different spirit from his customary easy pugnacity that

welcome and lure on an adversary to wild outhitting. some sorrowful

preoccupation be, however, to be expect in the man who have lose a

brother, and some degree of irritability at the intrusion of past

dispute. he choose to repeat a similar brief forbidding of the subject

before they start together for the scene of the accident and Romfrey

Castle. no notice be take of Beauchamp’s remark, that he consent to

go though his duty lie elsewhere. beauchamp have not the faculty of

read inside man, or he would have apprehend that his uncle be

engage in silently heap aggravation to shoot forth one fine day a

thunder and astonishing counterstroke.



he should have know his uncle Everard well.



in this respect he seem to have no memory. but who have much that have

give up his brain for a lodging to a single idea? it be at once a

devouring dragon, and an intractable steamforce; it be a tyrant that

have eat up a senate, and a prophet with a message. inspire of

solitariness and gigantic size, it claim divine origin. the world can

have no peace for it.



Cecilia have not please he; none have. he do not bear in mind that the

sight of Dr. Shrapnel sick and weak, which constantly reanimate his

feeling of pity and of wrath, be not give to the other of whom he

demand a corresponding energy of just indignation and sympathy. the

sense that he be leave unaided to the task of bend his tough uncle,

combine with his appreciation of the righteousness of the task to

embitter he and set he on a pedestal, from which he descend at

every sign of an opportunity for strike, and to which he retire

continually baffle and wrathful, in isolation.



then ensue the dreadful division in his conception of his power: for

he who alone see the just and right thing to do, be incapable of

compelling it to be do. Lay on to his uncle as he would, that

wrestler shake he off. and here be one man whom he could not move!

how move a nation?



there come on he a thirst for the harangue of crowd. they agree

with you or they disagree; excite you to activity in either case.

they do not interpose cold Tory exclusiveness and inaccessibility. you

have they in the rough; you have nature in they, and all that be

hopeful in nature. you drive at, over, and through they, for their

good; you plough they. you sow they too. some of they perceive that it

_be_ for their good, and what if they be a minority? ghastly as a

minority be in an Election, in a lifelong struggle it be refreshing and

encouraging. the young world and its triumph be with the minority. oh

to be speak! condemn to silence beside his uncle, Beauchamp chafe

for a loosed tongue and an audience toss like the well-whip

ocean, or open as the smooth sea-surface to the mark of the breeze.

let they be hostile or amicable, he want an audience as hotly as the

hump Richard a horse.



at Romfrey Castle he fall upon an audience that became transform into

a swarm of chatterer, adviser, and reprover the instant his lip

be part. the lady of the family declare his pursuit of the

Apology to be bad and vainer than his politic. the gentleman say

the same, but they be not so outspoken to he personally, and

indulge in aside, with quotation of some of his uncle Everard’s

recent observation concern he: as for example, “politically he’s a

mad harlequin jump his tight and spangle when nobody ask he to

jump; and in private life he’s a mad dentist poke his tong at my

sound tooth:” a highly ludicrous image of the persistent fellow, and a

reminder of situation in Molière, as it be act by Cecil Baskelett

and Lord Welshpool. Beauchamp have to a certain extent restore himself

to favour with his uncle Everard by offer a fair suggestion on the

fatal field to account for the accident, after the latter have take

measurement and examine the place in perplexity. his elucidation of

the puzzle be refer to by Lord Avonley at Romfrey, and finally

accept as possible and this from a wiseacre who go quack about

the county, expect to upset the order of thing in England! such a

mixing of sense and nonsense in a fellow’s noddle be never before meet

with, Lord Avonley say. cecil take the hint. he have be unworrie by

Beauchamp: Dr. Shrapnel have not be mention: and it delight Cecil

to let it be know that he think old Nevil have some good notion,

particularly as to the duty of the aristocracy—that first war-cry of

his when a midshipman. news of another fatal accident in the

hunting-field confirm Cecil’s high opinion of his cousin. on the

day of Craven’s funeral they hear at Romfrey that Mr. Wardour-Devereux

have be kill by a fall from his horse. two english gentleman

despatch by the same agency within a fortnight! “he smoke,” Lord

Avonley say of the second departure, to allay some perturbation in the

bosom of the lady who have cease to ride, by account for this

particular mishap in the most reassuring fashion. cecil’s immediate

reflection be that the unfortunate smoker have leave a rich widow. far

behind in the race for Miss Halkett, and uncertain of a settle

advantage in his other rivalry with Beauchamp, he fix his mind on the

widow, and as Beauchamp do not stand in his way, but on the contrary

might help he—for she, like the generality of woman, admire Nevil

Beauchamp in spite of her feminine good sense and conservatism—Cecil

begin to regard the man he feel less opposed to with some recognition

of his merit. the two nephew accompany Lord Avonley to London, and

sleep at his town-house.



they breakfast together the next morning on friendly term. half an

hour afterward there be an explosion; uncle and nephew be scatter

fragment: and if Cecil be the first to return to cohesion with his

lord and chief, it be, he protest energetically, common policy in a

man in his position to do so: all that he look for be a decent

pension and a share in the use of the town-house. Old Nevil, he

relate, begin cross-examine he and entangle he with the cunning

of the deuce, in my lord’s presence, and having get he to make an

admission, old Nevil fling it at the baron, and even cross he and

stand before he when he be walk out of the room. a furious wrangle

take place. Nevil and the baron give it to one another unmercifully.

the end of it be that all three fly apart, for Cecil confess to

have a temper, and in contempt of he for the admission wring out of

he, Lord Avonley have prick it. my lord go down to Steynham,

Beauchamp to Holdesbury, and Captain Baskelett to his quarter; whence

in a few day he repair penitently to my lord—the most placable of

man when a full submission be offer to he.



Beauchamp do nothing of the kind. he write a letter to Steynham in the

form of an ultimatum.



this egregious letter be hand to Rosamund for a proof of she

darling’s lunacy. she in conversation with Stukely Culbrett

unhesitatingly accuse Cecil of plot his cousin’s ruin.



Mr. Culbrett think it possible that Cecil have be a little more than

humorous in the part he have play in the dispute, and speak to he.



then it come out that Lord Avonley have also deliver an ultimatum to

Beauchamp.



Time enough have go by for Cecil to forget his ruffling, and relish

the baron’s grandly comic spirit in appropriate that big word

Apology, and demand it from Beauchamp on behalf of the lady ruling

his household. what could be funny than the knocking of Beauchamp’s

blunderbuss out of his hand, and point the muzzle at he!



Cecil dramatize the fun to amuse Mr. Culbrett. apparently Beauchamp

have be stagger on hear himself ask for the definite article he

claim. he have make a point of speaking of _the_ apology. Lord Avonley

do likewise. and each profess to exact it for a deeply aggrieve

person: each put it on the ground that it involve the other’s rightful

ownership of the title of gentleman.



‘“an apology to the amiable and virtuous Mistress Culling?’ say old

Nevil: ‘an apology? what for?’—‘For unbecoming and insolent behaviour,’

say my lord.”



“I be that lady’s friend,” stukely warn Captain Baskelett. “don’t let

we have a third apology in the field.”



“perfectly true; you be her friend, and you know what a friend of mine

she be,” rejoin Cecil. “I could swear ‘that lady’ fling the whole

affair at I. I give you my word, old Nevil and I be on a capital

footing before he and the baron break up. I praise he for tickle

the aristocracy. I back he heartily; I do now; I’ll do it in

Parliament. I know a case of a noble lord, a General in the army, and

he receive an intimation that he might as well attend the Prussian

cavalry manœuvre last Autumn on the Lower Rhine or in Silesia—no

matter where. he couldn’t go: he be engage to shoot bird! I give you

my word. now there I see old Nevil’s right. it’s as well we should know

something about the prussian and austrian cavalry, and if our

aristocracy willn’t go abroad to study cavalry, who be to? no class in

the kingdom understand horse as they do. my opinion be, they’re

asleep. nevil should have stick to that, instead of try to galvanize

the country and turn against his class. but fancy old Nevil ask

for the apology! it petrify he. ‘I’ve tell she nothing but the

truth,’ say Nevil. ‘tell the truth to woman be an impertinence,’

say my lord. Nevil swear he’d have a revolution in the country before

he apologize.”



Mr. Culbrett smile at the absurdity of the change of position between

Beauchamp and his uncle Everard, which remind he somewhat of the old

story of the highwayman innkeeper and the market farmer who have be

thoughtful enough to recharge his pistol after quit the inn at

midnight. a practical “tu quoque” be astonishingly laughable, and

back by a high figure and manner it have the flavour of triumphant

repartee. Lord Avonley do not speak of it as a retort upon Nevil,

though he reiterate the word Apology amusingly. he put it as due to

the lady govern his household; and his ultimatum be, that the

Apology should be deliver in term to satisfy _he_ within three

month of the date of the demand for it: otherwise blank; but the

shadowy index point to the destitution of Nevil Beauchamp.



no stroke of retributive misfortune could have be severe to Rosamund

than to be thrust forward as the object of humiliation for the man she

love. she see at a glance how much more likely it be (remote as the

possibility appear) that her lord would perform the act of penitence

than her beloved nevil. and she have no occasion to ask herself why.

Lord Avonley have do wrong, and Nevil have not. it be inconceivable

that Nevil should apologize to she. it be horrible to picture the act

in her mind. she be a very rational woman, quite a woman of the world,

yet such be her situation between these two man that the childish tale

of a close and consecutive punishment for sin, down to our little

naughtiness and naturalness, enslave her intelligence, and amaze

she with the example make of she, as it be to prove the tale true of

our be surely haul back like domestic animal learn the habit

of good society, to the rueful contemplation of certain of our deed,

however wildly we appeal to nature to stand up for they.



but be it so with all of we? no, think Rosamund, sink dejectedly

from a recognition of the heavenliness of the justice which lash she

and Nevil, and do not scourge Cecil Baskelett. that fine eye for

celestially direct consequence be ever haunt by shadow of unfaith

likely to obscure it completely when chastisement be not see to fall

on the person whose wickedness be evident to we. it have be

establish that we do not wax diviner by drag down the Gods to our

level.



Rosamund know Lord Avonley too well to harass he with further

petition and explanation. equally vain be it to attempt to persuade

Beauchamp. he make use of the house in London, where he meet his uncle

occasionally, and he call at Steynham for money, that he could have

obtain upon the one condition, which be no soon mention than

fiery word fly in the room, and the two separate. the leaden look in

Beauchamp, notice by Cecilia Halkett in their late interview, be

deepen, and be of itself a displeasure to Lord Avonley, who liked

flourish face, and say: “that fellow’s get the look of a

sweat smith”: presumptively in the act of heat his poker at the

furnace to stir the country.



it now become an offence to he that Beauchamp should continue do

this in the speech and lecture he be report to be deliver; he

stamp his foot at the sight of his nephew’s name in the daily

journal; a novel sentiment of social indignation be express by his

cry out, at the next request for money: “money to prime you to turn

the country into a rat-hole? not a square inch of pennsylvanian

paper-bond! what right have you to be lecture and oratione? you’ve

no knowledge. all you’ve get be your instinct, and that you show in

your readiness to exhibit they like a monkey. you ought to be turn

inside out on your own stage. you’ve lump your brain on a point or

two about Land, and Commonland, and the Suffrage, and you pound away

upon they, as if you have the key of the difficulty. it’s the

Scotchman’s metaphysics; you know nothing clear, and your

work-class know nothing at all; and you blow they with wind like

an over-stuff cow. what you’re drive at be to get hob-nail boot to

dance on our head. stukely say you should be off over to Ireland.

there you’d swim in your element, and have speechify from instinct,

and howl and pummel too, enough to last you out. I’ll hand you

money for that expedition. you’re one above the number want here.

you’ve a look of bad powder fit only to flash in the pan. I save you

from the post of public donkey, by keep you out of Parliament.

you’re bray and kick your bad for it still at these meeting of

your. a naval officer preach about Republicanism and parcel out

the land!”



Beauchamp reply quietly, “the lecture I read be Dr. Shrapnel’s.

when I speak I have his knowledge to back my deficiency. he be too

ill to work, and I consider it my duty to do as much of his work as I

can undertake.”



“ha! you’re the old infidel’s Amen clerk. it would rather astonish

orthodox congregation to see clerk in our church get into the

pulpit to read the sermon for sick clergyman,” say Lord Avonley. his

countenance furrow. “I’ll pay that bill,” he add.



“pay down half a million!” thunder Beauchamp; and drop his voice,

“or go to he.”



“you remind I,” his uncle observe. “I recommend you to ring that

bell, and have Mrs. Culling here.”



“if she come she will hear what I think of she.”



“then, out of the house!”



“very well, sir. you decline to supply I with money?”



“I do.”



“I must have it!”



“I dare say. money’s a chain-cable for hold man to their sense.”



“I ask you, my lord, how I be to carry on Holdesbury?”



“give it up.”



“I shall have to,” say Beauchamp, strive to be prudent.



“there ben’t a doubt of it,” say his uncle, upon a series of nod

diminishing in their depth until his head assume a droll interrogative

fixity, with an air of “what next?”









CHAPTER XXXIX.

between BEAUCHAMP and CECILIA





Beauchamp quit the house without answer as to what next, and

without see Rosamund.



in the matter of money, as of his physical health, he want to do too

much at once; he have spend largely of both in his effort to repair the

injury do to Dr. Shrapnel. he be overwork, anxious, restless,

craving for a holiday somewhere in France, possibly; he be all but

leap on board the boat at time, and, unwilling to leave his dear

old friend who cling to he, he stay, keep his impulse below the

tide-mark which lead to action, but where they do not yield peace of

spirit. the tone of Renée’s letter fill he with misgiving. she

write word that she have see M. d’Henriel for the first time since his

return from Italy, and he be much change, and incline to thank

Roland for the lesson he have receive from he at the sword’s point.

and next she urge Beauchamp to marry, so that he and she might meet,

as if she feel a necessity for it. “I shall love your wife; teach she

to think amiably of I,” she say. and her letter contain womanly

sympathy for he in his battle with his uncle. beauchamp think of his

experience of Cecilia’s comparative coldness. he reply that there

be no prospect of his marrying; he wish there be one of meeting!

he forbore from write too fervently, but he allude to happy day in

Normandy, and propose to renew they if she would say she have need of

he. he entreat she to deal with he frankly; he remind she that

she must constantly look to he, as she have vow she would, when in

any kind of trouble; and he declare to she that he be unchanged. he

mean, of an unchanged disposition to shield and serve she; but the

review of her situation, and his knowledge of her quick blood, work

he to some jealous lover’s throb, which lead he to impress his

unchangeableness upon she, to bind she to that standard.



she decline his visit: not now; “not yet”: and for that he presume to

chide she, half-sincerely. as far as he know he stand against everybody

save his old friend and Renée; and she certainly would have refresh

his heart for a day. in writing, however, he have an ominous vision of

the morrow to the day; and, both for her sake and his own, he be not

unrejoiced to hear that she be engaged day and night in nursing her

husband. pursue his vision of the morrow of an unreproachful day with

Renée, the madness of take she to himself, should she surrender at

last to a third persuasion, strike he sharply, now that he and his

uncle be foot to foot in downright conflict, and money be the

question. he have not much remain of his inheritance—about fifteen

hundred pound. he would have to vacate Holdesbury and his uncle’s

town-house in a month. let his passion be never so desperate, for a

beggared man to think of run away with a wife, or of marry one,

the folly be as big as the worldly offence: no justification be to be

imagine. Nay, and there be no justification for the breach of a moral

law. Beauchamp own it, and feel that Renée’s resistance to he in

Normandy place she above he. he remember a saying of his moralist:

“we who interpret thing heavenly by thing earthly must not hope to

juggle with they for our pleasure, and can look to no absolution of

evil act.” the school be a hard one. it deny he holiday; it cut

he off from dream. it run he in heavy harness on a rough highroad,

allow no turning to right or leave, no wayside cropping; with the

simple permission to he that he should daily get thoroughly tired. and

what be it Jenny Denham have say on the election day? “do incessant

battling keep the intellect clear?”



his mind be clear enough to put the case, that either he behold a

tremendous magnification of thing, or else that other man do not

attach common importance to they; and he decide that the latter be

the fact.



an incessant struggle of one man with the world, which position usually

rank his relative against he, do not conduce to soundness of

judgement. he may nevertheless be right in consider that he be right

in the main. the world in motion be not so wise that it can pretend to

silence the outcry of an ordinarily generous heart even—the very infant

of antagonism to its method and establishment. it be not so difficult

to be right against the world when the heart be really active; but the

world be our book of humanity, and before insist that _his_

handwriting shall occupy the next blank page of it, the noble rebel be

bind for the sake of his aim to ask himself how much of a giant he be,

lest he fall like a blot on the page, instead of inscribe

intelligible character there.



moreover, his relative be present to assure he that he do not jump

out of Jupiter’s head or come of the doctor. they hang on he like an

ill-condition prickly garment; and if he complain of the irritation

they cause he, they one and all denounce his irritable skin.



fret by his relative he cannot be much of a giant.



Beauchamp look from Dr. Shrapnel in his invalid’s chair to his uncle

Everard breathe robustly, and mix his uncle’s error with those of

the world which honour and uphold he. his remainder of equability

depart; his impatience increase. his appetite for work at Dr.

Shrapnel’s writing-desk be voracious. he be ready for any labour, the

transcribing of paper, write from dictation, whatsoever be of

service to Lord Avonley’s victim: and he be not like the spartan boy

with the wolf at his vital; he betray it in the hue his uncle

Everard detest, in a visible nervousness, and indulgence in fit of

scorn. sharp epigram and note of irony provoke his laughter more

than fun. he seem to acquiesce in some of the current contemporary

despair of our immoveable England, though he wince at a satire on his

country, and attempt to show that the dull dominant class of

moneymaker be the ruin of she. wherever he stand to represent Dr.

Shrapnel, as against Mr. Grancey Lespel on account of the Itchincope

encroachment, he leave a sting that spread the rumour of his having

become not only a black torch of Radicalism—our modern provincial

estateholder and their wife bestow that reputation lightly—but a

gentleman with the polish scratch off he in part. and he, though

individually he do not understand how there be to be game in the land

if game-preserving be abolish, sign his name R. C. S. NEVIL

BEAUCHAMP for DR. SHRAPNEL, in the communication direct to

solicitor of the persecutor of poacher.



his behaviour to Grancey Lespel be eclipse by his treatment of

Captain Baskelett. Cecil have ample reason to suppose his cousin to be

friendly with he. he himself have forget Dr. Shrapnel, and all other

dissension, in a supremely christian spirit. he pay his cousin the

compliment to think that he have do likewise. at Romfrey and in London

he have speak to Nevil of his design upon the widow: Nevil say

nothing against it and it be under Mrs. Wardour-Devereux’s eye, and

before a man name Lydiard, that, never call to he to put he on

his guard, Nevil fall foul of he with every capital charge that can be

bring against a gentleman, and do so abuse, worry, and disgrace he

as to reduce he to quit the house to avoid the scandal of a resort to

a gentleman’s last appeal in vindication of his character. Mrs.

Devereux speak of the terrible scene to Cecilia, and Lydiard to Miss

Denham. the injured person communicate it to Lord Avonley, who tell

Colonel Halkett emphatically that his nephew Cecil deserve well of he

in having keep command of his temper out of consideration for the

family. there be a general murmur of the family over this incident.

the widow be rich, and it rank among the unwritten crime against

blood for one offshoot of a great house wantonly to thwart another in

the wooing of she by humble he in her presence, do his utmost to

expose he as a schemer, a culprit, and a poltroon.



could it be that Beauchamp have reserve his wrath with his cousin to

avenge Dr. Shrapnel upon he signally? Miss Denham fear her guardian

be the cause. Lydiard be indefinitely of her opinion. the idea strike

Cecilia Halkett, and as an example of Beauchamp’s tenacity of purpose

and sureness of aim it fascinate she. but Mrs. Wardour-Devereux do

not appear to share it. she object to Beauchamp’s intemperateness and

unsparingness, as if she be for convey a sisterly warning to

Cecilia; and that be off her mind, she add, smile a little and

colour a little: “we learn only from man what man be.” how the

scene commence and whether it be provoke, she fail to recollect.

she describe Beauchamp as very self-contain in manner throughout his

tongue be the scorpion. Cecilia fancy he must have resemble his

uncle Everard.



Cecilia be conquer, but unclaimed. while support and approve

he in her heart she be dread to receive some new problem of his

conduct; and still while she blame he for not seek an interview

with she, she like he for this instance of delicacy in the present

state of his relation with Lord Avonley.



a problem of her own conduct disturb the young lady’s clear

conception of herself: and this be a ruffling of unfaithfulness in her

love of Beauchamp, that be betray to she by her forgetfulness of he

whenever she chance to be with Seymour Austin. in Mr. Austin’s company

she recover her forfeited repose, her poetry of life, her image of

the independent Cecilia throne above our dust of battle, gaze on

broad heaven. she carry the feeling so far that Blackburn Tuckham’s

enthusiasm for Mr. Austin give he grace in her sight, and praise of

her father’s favourite from Mr. Austin’s mouth make he welcome to she.

the image of that grave capable head, dusty-grey about the temple, and

the darkly sanguine face of the try man, which be that of a season

warrior and inspire full trust in he, with his vivid look, his

personal distinction, his plain devotion to the country’s business, and

the domestic solitude he live in, admire, esteemed, love perhaps,

but unpartnered, be often her refuge and haven from tempestuous

Beauchamp. she could see in vision the pride of Seymour Austin’s mate.

it flush she reflectively. conquer but not claim, Cecilia be

like the frozen earth insensibly move round to sunshine in nature,

with one white flower in her breast as innocent a sign of strong sweet

blood as a woman may wear. she ascribe to that fair mate of Seymour

Austin’s many lofty charm of womanhood; above all, stateliness: her

especial dream of an attainable superlative beauty in woman. and

suppose that lady to be accuse of the fickle breaking of another

love, who walk beside he, match with his calm heart and one with

he in counsel, would the accusation be repeat by they that behold

her husband? might it not rather be say that she have not deviate, but

have only step higher? she choose no youth, no glistener, no idler: it

be her soul strive upward to air like a seed in the earth that

raise she to he: and she could say to the man once enchain she:

Friend, by the good you teach I I be lead to this!



Cecilia’s reverie flee like column of mist before the gale when

tiding reach she of a positive rupture between Lord Avonley and

Nevil Beauchamp, and of the mandate to he to quit possession of

Holdesbury and the London house within a certain number of day,

because of his refusal to utter an apology to Mrs. Culling. angrily on

his behalf she prepare to humble herself to he. Louise

Wardour-Devereux bring they to a meeting, at which Cecilia, with her

heart in her hand, be icy. Mr. Lydiard, prompt by Mrs. Devereux,

give he well reason for her singular coldness than Cecilia could

give to herself, and some time afterward Beauchamp go to Mount

Laurels, where Colonel Halkett mount guard over his daughter, and

behave, to her thinking, cruelly. “now you have ruin yourself

there’s nothing ahead for you but to go to the Admiralty and apply for

a ship,” he say, sugar the unkindness with the remark that the

country would be the gainer. he let fly a side-shot at London man

call themselves military man who seek to repair their fortune by

chase wealthy widow, and compliment Beauchamp: “you’re not one of

that sort.”



Cecilia look at Beauchamp stedfastly. “speak,” say the look.



but he, though not blind, be keenly wound.



“money I must have,” he say, half to the colonel, half to himself.



Colonel Halkett shrug. Cecilia wait for a directness in

Beauchamp’s eye.



her father be too wary to leave they.



Cecilia’s intuition tell she that by lead to a discussion of

politic, and adopt Beauchamp’s view, she could kindle he. why do

she refrain? it be that the conquered young lady be a captive, not an

ally. to touch the subject in cold blood, voluntarily to launch on

those vex water, as if his cause be her heart’s, as much as her

heart be the man’s, she feel to be impossible. he at the same time

feel that the heiress, endow he with money to speed the good cause,

should be his match in ardour for it, otherwise he be but a common

adventurer, win and despoil an heiress.



they meet in London. Beauchamp have not vacate either Holdesbury or the

town-house; he be defy his uncle Everard, and Cecilia think with

he that it be a wise temerity. she think with he passively

altogether. on this occasion she have not to wait for directness in his

eye; she have to parry it. they be at a dinner-party at Lady Elsea’s,

generally the last place for see Lord Palmet, but he be present,

and arrange thing neatly for they, tell Beauchamp that he act

under Mrs. Wardour-Devereux’s order. never be an opportunity, more

propitious for a desperate lover. have it be Renée next he, no petty

worldly scruple of honour would have hold he back. and if Cecilia have

speak feelingly of Dr. Shrapnel, or have she simulate a thoughtful

interest in his pursuit, his hesitation would have vanish. as it

be, he dare to look what he do not permit himself to speak. she be

nobly lovely, and the palpable envy of man around cry fool at his

delay. Beggar and heiress he say in his heart, to vitalize the

three-part fiction of the point of honour which Cecilia’s beauty be

fast submerging. when she be leave he name a day for call to see

she. Colonel Halkett stand by, and she answer, “come.”



Beauchamp keep the appointment. Cecilia be absent.



he be unaware that her father have take she to old Mrs. Beauchamp’s

death-bed. her absence, after she have say, “come,” appear a

confirmation of her glacial manner when they meet at the house of Mrs.

Wardour-Devereux; and he charge she with waywardness. a wound of the

same kind that we be inflict be about the severest we can feel.



Beauchamp receive intelligence of his venerable great-aunt’s death

from Blackburn Tuckham, and after the funeral he be inform that

eighty thousand pound have be bequeath to he: a goodly sum of

money for a gentleman recently beggar; yet, as the political

enthusiast could not help reckon (apart from a fervent sentiment of

gratitude toward his benefactress), scarcely enough to do much more

than start and push for three or more year a command daily

newspaper, devote to radical interest, and to be entitle the DAWN.



true, he might now conscientiously approach the heiress, take her hand

with an open countenance, and retain it.



could he do so quite conscientiously? the point of honour have be

centre in his condition of beggary. something still be in his way. a

quick spring of his blood for air, motion, excitement, holiday freedom,

send his thought travel whither they always shoot away when his

redoubtable natural temper break loose.



in the case of any other woman than Cecilia Halkett he would not have

be obstruct by the minor consideration as to whether he be wholly

heart-free to ask she in marriage that instant; for there be no

hindrance, and she be beautiful. she be exceedingly beautiful; and

she be an unequalled heiress. she would be able with her wealth to

float his newspaper, the DAWN, so desire of Dr. Shrapnel!—the good

restorative that could be apply to he! every temptation came

supplicate he to take the step which indeed he wish for: one

feel opposed. he really respect Cecilia: it be not too much to say

that he worship she with the devout worship render to the ideal

Englishwoman by the heart of the nation. for he she be purity,

charity, the keeper of the key of whatsoever be hold precious by man;

she be a midway saint, a light between day and darkness, in whom the

spirit in the flesh shine like the grow star amid thin sanguine

colour, the sweeter, the brighter, the more translucent the long

know. and if the image will allow it, the nearer down to he the

holier she seem.



how offer himself when he be not perfectly certain that he be worthy

of she?



some jugglery be play by the adept male heart in these later

hesitation. up to the extent of his knowledge of himself, the man be

fairly sincere. passion would have speed he to Cecilia, but passion be

not invariably love; and we know what it can be.



the glance he cast over the water at Normandy be withdraw. he go to

Bevisham to consult with Dr. Shrapnel about the starting of a weekly

journal, instead of a daily, and a name for it—a serious question: for

though it be oftener weekly than daily that the dawn be visible in

England, title must not invite the public jest; and the glorious

project of the daily DAWN be prudently abandon for by-and-by. he

think himself rich enough to put a radical champion weekly in the

field and this matter, except the title, be arrange in Bevisham.

Thence he proceed to Holdesbury, where he hear that the house,

ground, and farm be let to a tenant prepare to enter. Indifferent

to the blow, he keep an engagement to deliver a speech at the great

manufacturing town of Gunningham, and then go to London, visit his

uncle’s town-house for recent letter. not one be from Renée: she have

not write for six week, not once for his thrice! a letter from Cecil

Baskelett inform he that “my lord” have place the town-house at his

disposal. return to dress for dinner on a thick and murky evening of

February, Beauchamp encounter his cousin on the step. he say to

Cecil, “I sleep here to-night: I leave the house to you tomorrow.”



Cecil strike out his underjaw to reply: “oh! good. you sleep here

to-night. you be a fortunate man. I congratulate you. I shall not

disturb you. I have just enter on my occupation of the house. I have

my key. allow I to recommend you to go straight to the drawing-room.

and I may inform you that the Earl of Romfrey be at the point of death.

my lord be at the castle.”



Cecil accompany his descent of the step with the humming of an opera

melody: Beauchamp trip into the hall-passage. a young maid-servant

hold the door open, and she accost he: “if you please, there be a

lady up-stair in the drawing-room; she speak foreign English, sir.”



Beauchamp ask if the lady be alone, and not wait for the answer,

though he listen while write, and hear that she be heavily

veil, he tear a strip from his notebook, and carefully trace

half-a-dozen telegraphic word to Mrs. Culling at Steynham. his rarely

fail promptness, which be like an inspiration, to conceive and

execute measure for avert peril, set he on the thought of possibly

counteract his cousin Cecil’s malignant tongue by mean of a message

to Rosamund, summon she by telegraph to come to town by the next

train that night. he despatch the old woman keep the house, as

trusty than the young one, to the near office, and go up to the

drawing-room, with a quick thumping heart that be nevertheless as

little apprehensive of an especial trial and danger as if he have do

nothing at all to obviate it. indeed he forget that he have do

anything when he turn the handle of the drawing-room door.









CHAPTER XL.

a trial of HIM





a low-burn lamp and fire cast a narrow ring on the shadow of the

dusky London room. one of the window-blind be draw up. beauchamp

discern a shape at that window, and the fear seize he that it might

be Madame d’Auffray with evil news of Renée: but it be Renée’s name he

call. she rise from her chair, say, “I!”



she be tremble.



Beauchamp ask she whisperingly if she have come alone.



“alone; without even a maid,” she murmur.



he pull down the blind of the window expose they to the square, and

lead she into the light to see her face.



the dimness of light annoy he, and the miserable reception of she;

this english weather, and the gloomy house! and how long have she be

wait for he? and what be the mystery? Renée in England seem

magical; yet it be nothing strange than an old dream realize. he

wind up the lamp, hold she still with one hand. she be woefully

pale; scarcely able to bear the increase of light.



“it be I who come to you”: she be half audible.



“this time!” say he. “you have be suffer?”



“no.”



her tone be brief; not reassure.



“you come straight to I?”



“without a deviation that I know of.”



“from Tourdestelle?”



“you have not forget Tourdestelle, Nevil?”



the memory of it quicken his rapture in read her feature. it be

his first love, his enchantress, who be here: and how? conjecture

shoot through he like lightning in the dark.



irrationally, at a moment when reason stand in awe, he fancy it must

be that her husband be dead. he force himself to think it, and could

have smile at the hurry of her come, one, without even a maid: and

deep down in he the devouring question burn which dread the

answer.



but of old, in Normandy, she have pledge herself to join he with no

delay when free, if ever free!



so now she be free.



one side of he glow in illumination; the other be black as Winter

night; but light subdue darkness; and in a situation like Beauchamp’s,

the blood be lively than the prophetic mind.



“why do you tell I to marry? what do that mean?” say he. “do you

wish I to be the one in chain? and you have come quite alone!—you

will give I an account of everything presently:—You be here! in

England! and what a welcome for you! you be cold.”



“I be warmly clothe,” say Renée, suffer her hand to be draw to his

breast at her arm’s-length, not bend with it.



alive to his own indirectness, he be conscious at once of the slight

sign of reservation, and say: “tell I...” and swerve sheer away from

his question: “how be Madame d’Auffray?”



“Agnès? I leave she at Tourdestelle,” say Renée.



“and Roland? he never write to I.”



“neither he nor I write much. he be at the military camp of instruction

in the North.”



“he will run over to we.”



“do not expect it.”



“why not?”



Renée sigh. “we shall have to live long than I look for...” she

stop. “why do you ask I why not? he be fond of we both, and sorry

for we; but have you forget Roland that morning on the Adriatic?”



Beauchamp press her hand. the stroke of then and now rang in his

breast like a bell instead of a bound heart. something have stun

his heart. he have no clear central feeling; he try to gather it from

her touch, from his joy in behold she and sit with she alone,

from the grace of her figure, the wild sweetness of her eye, and the

beloved foreign lip bewitch he with their exquisite french and

perfection of speech.



his nature be too prompt in respond to such a call on it for

resolute warmth.



“if I have be firm then, or you one year old!” he say.



“that girl in Venice have no courage,” say Renée.



she raise her head and look about the room.



her instinct of love sound her lover through, and feel the deficiency

or the contrariety in he, as surely as musical ear be pain by a

discord that they require no touchstone to detect. passion have the

sensitiveness of fever, and be as cruelly chill by a tepid air.



“yes, a London house after Venice and Normandy!” say Beauchamp,

follow her look.



“sicily: do not omit Syracuse; you be in your naval uniform: Normandy

be our third meeting,” say Renée. “this be the fourth. I should have

reckon that.”



“why? superstitiously?”



“we cannot be entirely wise when we have stake our fate. sailor be

credulous: you know they. woman be like they when they embark... three

chance! who can boast of so many, and expect one more! will you take

I to my hotel, Nevil?”



the fiction of she be free could not be sustain.



“take you and leave you? I be absolutely at your command. but leave

you? you be alone: and you have tell I nothing.”



what be there to tell? the desperate act be apparent, and tell all.



Renée’s dark eyelash lift on he, and drop.



“then thing be as I leave they in Normandy?” say he.



she reply: “almost.”



he quiver at the solitary word; for his conscience be on edge. it

run the shrewd irony through he, inexplicably. “almost”: that be,

“with this poor difference of one person, now find herself

worthless, subtract from the list; no other; it should be little to

they as it be little to you”: or, reverse it, the substance of the

word become magnify and intensify by its humble slightness: “thing

be the same, but for the jewel of the province, a lustre of France,

lure hither to her eclipse”—meanings various, indistinguishable,

thrilling and pierce sad as the half-tone hum round the note of

a strung wire, which be a blunt single note to the common ear.



Beauchamp spring to his foot and bend above she: “you have come to I,

for the love of I, to give yourself to I, and for ever, for good,

till death? Speak, my beloved Renée.”



her eye be raise to his: “you see I here. it be for you to speak.”



“I do. there’s nothing I ask for now—if the step cann’t be retrieve.”



“the step retrieve, my friend? there be no step backward in life.”



“I be think of you, Renée.”



“yes, I know,” she answer hurriedly.



“if we discover that the step be a wrong one?” he pursue: “why be

there no step backward?”



“I be talk of woman,” say Renée.



“why not for woman?”



“honourable woman, I mean,” say Renée.



Beauchamp incline to forget his position in find matter to contest.



yet it be beyond contest that there be no step backward in life. she

speak well; well than he, and she win his deference by it. not only

she speak well: she be truer, distincter, braver: and a man ever on

the look-out for superior quality, and ready to bow to they, could

not refuse her homage. with that a save sense of power quit he.



“you write to I that you be unchanged, Nevil.”



“I be.”



“so, then, I come.”



his rejoinder be the dumb one, commonly eloquent and satisfactory.



Renée shut her eye with a painful rigour of endurance. she open they

to look at he steadily.



the desperate act of her flight demand immediate recognition from he

in simple language and a practical seconding of it. there be the test.



“I cannot stay in this house, Nevil; take I away.”



she name her hotel in her french English, and the sound of it

penetrate he with remorseful pity. it be for he, and of his doing,

that she be in an alien land and an outcast!



“this house be wretched for you,” say he: “and you must be hungry. let

I...”



“I cannot eat. I will ask you”: she pause, draw on her energy,

and keep down the throb of her heart: “this: do you love I?”



“I love you with all my heart and soul.”



“as in Normandy?”



“yes.”



“in Venice?”



“as from the first, Renée! that I can swear.”



“oath be foolish. I mean to ask you—my friend, there be no question

in my mind of any other woman: I see you love I: I be so used to

consider myself the vain and cowardly creature, and you the bold and

faithfull of man, that I could not abandon the habit if I would: I

start confide in you, sure that I should come to land. but I have

to ask you: to I you be truth: I have no claim on my lover for

anything but the answer to this:—Am I a burden to you?”



his brow fly up in furrow. he draw a heavy breath, for never have he

love she more admiringly, and never on such equal term. she be his

mate in love and dare at least. a sorrowful comparison strike he, of

a little boat sail out to a vessel in deep sea and leave to founder.



without knot his mind to acknowledge or deny the burden, for he

could do neither, he stand silent, stare at she, not so much in

weakness as in positive mental division. no, would be false; and yes,

not less false; and if the step be irretrievable, to say yes would be

to plunge a dagger in her bosom; but no be a vain deceit involve a

double wreck. assuredly a man stand against the world in a good

cause, with a runaway wife on his hand, carry a burden, however

precious it be to he.



a smile of her lip, part in an anguish of expectancy, go to death

over Renée’s face. she look at he tenderly. “the truth,” she

murmur to herself, and her eyelid fall.



“I be ready to bear anything,” say Beauchamp. “I weigh what you ask

I, that be all. you a burden to I? but when you ask I, you make I

turn round and inquire how we stand before the world.”



“the world do not stone man,” say Renée.



“cann’t I make you feel that I be not think of myself?” Beauchamp

stamp in his extreme perplexity. he be gag; he could not possibly

talk to she, who have cast the die, of his later notion of morality and

the world’s due, fee, and claim on we.



“no, friend, I be not complain.” Renée put out her hand to he; with

compassionate irony feign to have hear excuse. “what right have I

to complain? I have not the sensation. I could not expect you to be

everlastingly the sentinel of love. three time I reject you! now

that I have lose my father—oh! poor father: I trifle with my lover, I

trick he that my father might live in peace. he be dead. I wish

you to marry one of your own countrywoman, Nevil. you say it be

impossible; and I, with my snake at my heart, and a husband grateful

for nursing and whimpering to I for his youth like a beggar on the

road, I think I owe you this debt of body and soul, to prove to you

I have some courage; and for myself, to reward myself for my long

captivity and misery with one year of life: and adieu to Roland my

brother! adieu to friend! adieu to France! Italy be our home. I

dream of one year in Italy; I fancy it might be two; more than that

be unimaginable. prisoner of long date do not hope; they do not

calculate: air, light, they say; to breathe freely and drop down! they

be reduce to the instinct of the beast. I think I might give you

happiness, pay part of my debt to you. be you remember Count Henri?

that paint what I be! I could fly to that for a taste of life! a

dance to death! and again you ask: why, if I love you then, not turn

to you in preference? no, you have answer it yourself, Nevil;—on that

day in the boat, when generosity in a man so surprise I, it seem a

miracle to I; and it be, in its divination. how I thank my dear

brother Roland for save I the sight of you condemn to fight,

against your conscience! he teach poor M. d’Henriel his lesson. you,

Nevil, be my teacher. and see how it hang: there be mercy for I in

not having draw down my father’s anger on my heart’s beloved. he love

you. he pity we. he reproach himself. in his last day he be

teach to suspect our story: perhaps from Roland; perhaps I breathe it

without speak. he call heaven’s blessing on you. he speak of you

with tear, clutch my hand. he make I feel he would have cry out:

‘if I be leave she with Nevil Beauchamp!’ and ‘beauchamp,’ I hear

he murmur once: ‘take down Froissart’: he name a chapter. it be

curious: if he utter my name Renée, your, ‘nevil,’ soon follow.

that be notice by Roland. hope for we, he could not have have; as

little as I! but we be his two: his child. I bury he—I think

he would know our innocence, and now pardon our love. I read your

letter, from my name at the beginning, to yours at the end, and from

yours back to mine, and between the line, for any doubtful spot: and

oh, rash! but I would not retrace the step for my own sake. I be

certain of your love for I, though...” she pause: “yes, I be certain

of it. and if I be a burden to you?”



“about as much as the air, which I cann’t do without since I begin to

breathe it,” say Beauchamp, more clear-mindedly now that he suppose

he be address a mind, and with a peril to himself that escape his

vigilance. there be a secret intoxication for he already in the

half-certainty that the step could not be retrace. the idea that he

might reason with she, make she seductive to the heart and head of he.



“I be passably rich, Nevil,” she say. “I do not care for money, except

that it give wing. Roland inherit the château in Touraine. I have

one in Burgundy, and rente and share, my notary inform I.”



“I have money,” say he. his heart begin beat violently. he lose

sight of his intention of reasoning. “Good God! if you be free!”



she falter: “at Tourdestelle...”



“yes, and I _be_ unchanged,” Beauchamp cry out. “your life there be

horrible, and mine’s intolerable.” he stretch his arm cramp like

the yawning of a wretch in fetter. that which he would and would not

become so intervolved that he deem it reasonable to instance their

common misery as a ground for their union against the world. and what

have that world do for we, that a joy so immeasurable should be

reject on its behalf? and what have we succeed in do, that the

childish effort to move it should be continue at such a cost?



for year, down to one year back, and less—yesterday, it could be

say—all human blessedness appear to he in the person of Renée,

give he under any condition whatsoever. she be not less adorable

now. in her decision, and a courage that he especially prize in woman,

she be a sweet to he than when he be with she in France: too sweet

to be look at and refuse.



“but we must live in England,” he cry abruptly out of his inner mind.



“oh! not England, Italy, Italy!” Renée exclaim: “Italy, or Greece:

anywhere where we have sunlight. mountain and valley be my dream.

promise it, Nevil. I will obey you; but this be my wish. take I

through Venice, that I may look at myself and wonder. we can live at

sea, in a yacht; anywhere with you but in England. this country frown

on I; I can hardly fetch my breath here, I be suffocate. the people

all walk in line in England. not here, Nevil! they be good people, I

be sure; and it be your country: but their face chill I, their voice

grate; I should never understand they; they would be to I like their

fog eternally; and I to they? o I! it would be like hear sentence

in the dampness of the shroud perpetually. again I say I do not doubt

that they be very good: they claim to be; they judge other; they may

know how to make themselves happy in their climate; it be common to

most creature to do so, or to imagine it. nevil! not England!”



truly “the mad commander and his french marquise” of the Bevisham

Election ballad would make a pretty figure in England!



his friend of his own class would be mouth it. the story would be a

dog shadow of his public life, and, quite as bad, a reflection on

his party. he hear the yelp tongue of the cynic. he see the

consternation and grief of his old Bevisham hero, his leader and his

teacher.



“Florence,” he say, muse on the prospect of exile and idleness:

“there’s a kind of society to be have in Florence.”



Renée ask he if he care so much for society.



he reply that woman must have it, just as man must have exercise.



“old woman, Nevil; intriguer, tattler.”



“young woman, Renée.”



she signify no.



he shake the head of superior knowledge paternally.



her instinct of comedy set a dimple faintly work in her cheek.



“not if they love, Nevil.”



“at least,” say he, “a man do not like to see the woman he love

banish by society and browbeaten.”



“put I aside, do you care for it, Nevil?”



“personally not a jot.”



“I be convince of that,” say Renée.



she speak suspiciously sweetly, appear perfect candour.



the change in he be perceptible to she. the nature of the change be

unfathomable.



she try her wit at the riddle. but though she could be an actress

before he with little difficulty, the torment of her situation rouse

the fever within she at a bare effort to think acutely. Scarlet

suffuse her face: her brain whirl.



“remember, dearest, I have but offer myself: you have your choice. I

can pass on. yes, I know well I speak to Nevil Beauchamp; you have

drill I to trust you and your word as a soldier trust to his

officer—once a faint-hearted soldier! I need not remind you: front

the enemy now, in hard truth. but I want your whole heart to decide.

give I no silly compassion! would it have be well to I to have

write to you? if I have write I should have clip my glorious

impulse, bring myself down to earth with my own arrow. I do not

write, for I believe in you.”



so firm have be her faith in he that her vision of he on the

passage to England have resolve all to one flash of blood-warm welcome

await she: and it say much for her natural generosity that the

savage delicacy of a woman place as she now be, do not take a mortal

hurt from the apparent voidness of this home of his bosom. the

passionate gladness of the lover be want: the chivalrous valiancy

of manful joy.



Renée shiver at the cloud thicken over her new light of intrepid

defiant life.



“think it not improbable that I have weigh everything I surrender in

quit France,” she say.



remorse wrestle with Beauchamp and fling he at her foot.



Renée remark on the lateness of the hour.



he promise to conduct she to her hotel immediately.



“and to-morrow?” say Renée, simply, but breathlessly.



“to-morrow, let it be Italy! but first I telegraph to Roland and

Tourdestelle. I cann’t run and hide. the step may be retrieve: or no,

you be right; the step cannot, but the next to it may be stop—that

be the meaning I have! I’ll try. it’s cut my hand off, tear my

heart out; but I will. o that you be free! you leave your husband at

Tourdestelle?”



“I presume he be there at present: he be in Paris when I leave.”



Beauchamp speak hoarsely and incoherently in contrast with her

composure: “you will misunderstand I for a day or two, Renée. I say if

you be free I should have my first love mine for ever. don’t fear I:

I have no right even to press your finger. he may throw you into my

arm. now you be the same as if you be in your own home: and you

must accept I for your guide. by all I hope for in life, I’ll see you

through it, and keep the dog from bark, if I can. thousand be

ready to give tongue. and if they can get I in the character of a

law-breaker!—I hear they.”



“be you imagine, Nevil, that there be a possibility of my return

to he?”



“to your place in the world! you have not have to endure tyranny?”



“I should have have a certain respect for a tyrant, Nevil. at least I

should have have an occupation in mock he and conspire against

he. Tyranny! there would have be some amusement to I in that.”



“it be neglect.”



“if I could still charge it on neglect, Nevil! neglect be very

endurable. he reward I for nurse he... he reward I with a little

persecution: wife should be flatter by it: it come late.”



“what?” cry Beauchamp, oppressed and impatient.



Renée sink her voice.



something in the run of the unaccented French: “Son amour, mon ami”:

drive the significance of the bitterness of the life she have leave

behind she burningly through he. this be to have flee from a dragon!

be the lover’s thought: he perceive the motive of her flight: and it

be a vindication of it that appeal to he irresistibly. the proposal

for her return grow hideous: and this ever multiply horror and sting

of the love of a married woman come on he with a fresh throbbing

shock, more venom.



he feel for himself now, and now he be full of feeling for she.

impossible that she should return! Tourdestelle shine to he like a

gape chasm of fire. and become entirely selfish he impress his

total abnegation of self upon Renée so that she could have worship

he. a lover that be like a starry frost, freeze her vein, bewilder

her intelligence. she yearn for meridian warmth, for repose in a

direct hand; and let it be hard as one that grasp a sword: what

matter? unhesitatingness be the warrior virtue of her desire. and for

herself the bad might happen if only she be bear along. let she

life be tear and stream like the flag of battle, it must be forward

to the end.



that be a quality of godless young heroism not unexhausted in

Beauchamp’s blood. reanimate by he, she awaken his imagination of

the vagrant splendour of existence and the rebel delight which have

their own law and “nature” for an applauding mother. Radiant Alps rise

in his eye, and the morning bear in the night sun that from mountain

and valley, over sea and desert, call on all earth to witness their

death. the magnificence of the contempt of humanity pose before he

superbly satanesque, grand as thunder among the crag and it be not a

sensual cry that summon he from his pedlar labour, pack on back

along the level road, to live and breathe deep, gloriously mate: Renée

kindle his romantic spirit, and could strike the feeling into he that

to be proud of his possession of she be to conquer the fretful vanity

to possess. she be not a woman of wile and lur.



once or twice she consult her watch: but as she profess to have no

hunger, Beauchamp’s entreaty to she to stay prevail, and the subtle

form of compliment to his knightly manliness in she remain with he,

give he a new sense of pleasure that hang round her companionable

conversation, deepen the meaning of the word, or sometimes

contrast the sweet surface commonplace with the undercurrent of

strangeness in their heart, and the reality of a tragic position. her

musical volubility flow to entrance and divert he, as it do.



suddenly Beauchamp glance upward.



Renée turn from a startled contemplation of his frown, and beheld

Mrs. Rosamund cull in the room.









CHAPTER XLI.

a lame victory





the intruder be not a person that have power to divide they; yet she

come between their heart with a touch of steel.



“I be here in obedience to your command in your telegram of this

evening,” Rosamund reply to Beauchamp’s hard stare at she; she

courteously speak French, and acquit herself demurely of a bow to

the lady present.



Renée withdraw her serious eye from Beauchamp. she rise and

acknowledge the bow.



“it be my first visit to England, madame!”



“I could have desire, Madame la marquise, more agreeable weather for

you.”



“my friend in England will dispel the bad weather for I, madame”;

Renée smile softly: “I have be study my french-English

phrase-book, that I may learn how dialogue be conduct in your

country to lead to certain ceremony when old friend meet, and

without my book I be at fault. I be long to be embrace by you... if

it will not be offend your rule?”



Rosamund succumb to the seductive woman, whose gentle tooth bit

through her tutored simplicity of manner and natural graciousness,

administer its reproof, and elude a retort or an excuse.



she give the embrace. in do so she fall upon her conscious

awkwardness for an expression of reserve that should be as good as

irony for irony, though where Madame de Rouaillout’s irony lay, or

whether it be irony at all, our excellent english dame could not have

state, after the feeling of indignant prudery respond to it so

guiltily have subside.



Beauchamp ask she if she have bring servant with she; and it

gratify she to see that he be no actor fit to carry a scene

through in virtue’s name and vice’s mask with this actress.



she reply, “I have bring a man and a maid-servant. the

establishment will be in town the day after tomorrow, in time for my

lord’s return from the Castle.”



“you can have they up to-morrow morning.”



“I could,” Rosamund admit the possibility. her idolatry of he be

try on hear he press the hospitality of the house upon Madame de

Rouaillout, and observe the lady’s transparent feint of a reluctant

yielding. for the voluble Frenchwoman scarcely find a word to utter:

she protest languidly that she prefer the independence of her

hotel, and flutter a singular look at he, as if overcome by his

vehement determination to have she in the house. undoubtedly she have a

take face and style. his infatuation, nevertheless, appear to

rosamund utter dementedness, consider this woman’s position, and

Cecilia Halkett’s beauty and wealth, and that the house be no long

at his disposal. he be really distract, to judge by his forehead, or

else he be over-act his part.



the absence of a cook in the house, Rosamund remark, must prevent she

from second Captain Beauchamp’s invitation.



he turn on she witheringly. “the telegraph will do that. you’re in

London; cook can be have by dozen. Madame de Rouaillout be alone here;

she have come to see a little of England, and you will do the honour of

the house.”



“M. le marquis be not in London?” say Rosamund, disregard the dumb

imprecation she see on Beauchamp’s feature.



“no, madame, my husband be not in London,” Renée rejoin collectedly.



“see to the necessary comfort of the house instantly,” say Beauchamp,

and tell Renée, without listen to she, that he have to issue

order, he lead Rosamund, who be out of breath at the effrontery of the

pair, toward the door. “be you blind, ma’am? have you go foolish?

what should I have send for you for, but to protect she? I see your

mind; and off with the prude, pray! Madame will have my room; clear

away every sign of I there. I sleep out; I can find a bed anywhere.

and bolt and chain the house-door to-night against Cecil Baskelett; he

inform I that he have take possession.”



Rosamund’s countenance have become less austere.



“Captain Baskelett!” she exclaim, lean to Beauchamp’s view on the

side of her animosity to Cecil; “he have be promise by his uncle the

use of a set of room during the year, when the mistress of the house

be not in occupation. I stipulate expressly that he be to see you and

suit himself to your convenience, and to let I hear that you and he

have agree to an arrangement, before he enter the house. he have no

right to be here, and I shall have no hesitation in lock he out.”



Beauchamp bid her go, and not be away more than five minute; and then

he would drive to the hotel for the luggage.



she scan he for a look of ingenuousness that might be trust, and

laugh in her heart at her credulity for expect it of a man in such

a case. she see Renée sit stonily, too proudly self-respect to

put on a mask of flippant ease. these lover might be accomplice in

deceive she; they be not happy one, and that appear to she to be

some assurance that she do well in obey he.



Beauchamp close the door on she. he walk back to Renée with a

thoughtful air that be consciously act; his only thought be—now

she know I!



Renée look up at he once. her eye be unaccusing, unquestione.



with the violation of the secresy of her flight she have lose she

initiative and her intrepidity. the world of human eye glare on she

through the window of the two she have be expose to, paralyze her

brain and cage her spirit of revolt. that keen wakefulness of her

self-defensive social instinct help she to an understanding of her

lover’s plan to preserve her reputation, or rather to give she a corner

of retreat in shield the worthless thing—twice detest as her cloak

of slavery come from he! she comprehend no more. she be a house

of nerve crowd in against her soul like fiery thorn, and have no

space within her torture for a sensation of gratitude or suspicion; but

feel herself hurry along at lightning speed to some dreadful

shock, her witless imagination apprehend it in his voice: not what he

might say, only the sound. she fear to hear he speak, as the

shrink ear fear a thunder at the cavity; yet suspense be bad

than the downward-drive silence.



the pang strike she when he utter some word about Mrs. Culling, and

protection, and Roland.



she thank he.



so have common executioner be thank by queenly lady bare their

neck to the axe.



he call up the pain he suffer to vindicate he; and it be really

an agony of a man tear to piece.



“I have do the good.”



this dogged and stupid piece of speech be pitiable to hear from Nevil

Beauchamp.



“you think so?” say she; and her glass-like voice ring a tremour in

its mildness that swell through he on the plain submissive note,

which be more assent than question.



“I be sure of it. I believe it. I see it. at least I hope so.”



“we be chiefly lead by hope,” say Renée.



“at least, if not!” Beauchamp cry. “and it’s not too late. I have no

right—I do what I can. I be at your mercy. judge I later. if I be ever

to know what happiness be, it will be with you. it’s not too late

either way. there be Roland—my brother as much as if you be my wife!”



he beg she to let he have Roland’s exact address.



she name the regiment, the corps d’armée, the postal town, and the

department.



“Roland will come at a signal,” he pursue; “we be not bind to

consult other.”



Renée form the french word of “we” on her tongue.



he talk of Roland and Roland, his affection for he as a brother and

as a friend, and Roland’s love of they both.



“it be true,” say Renée.



“we owe he this; he represent your father.”



“all that you say be true, my friend.”



“thus, you have come on a visit to madame, your old friend here—oh!

your hand. what have I do?”



Renée motion her hand as if it be free to be take, and smile

faintly to make light of it, but do not give it.



“if you have be widow!” he break down to the lover again.



“that man be attach to the remnant of his life: I could not wish he

dispossess of it,” say Renée.



“part! who part we? it’s for a night. tomorrow!”



she breathe: “to-morrow.”



to his hearing it crave an answer. he have none. to talk like a lover,

or like a man of honour, be to lie. falsehood hem he in to the

narrow ring that ever statue stand on, if he mean to be stone.



“that woman will be return,” he mutter, frown at the vacant

door. “I could lay out my whole life before your eye, and show you I

be unchanged in my love of you since the night when Roland and I walk

on the Piazzetta...”



“do not remind I; let those day lie black!” a sympathetic vision of

her maiden’s tear on the night of wonderful moonlight when, as it

seem to she now, San Giorgio stand like a dark prophet of her present

abasement and chastisement, sprang tear of a different character, and

weak as she be with her soul’s fever and for want of food, she be

piteously shake. she say with some calmness: “it be useless to look

back. I have no reproach but for myself. explain nothing to I.

thing that be not comprehend by one like I be riddle I must put

aside. I know where I be: I scarcely know more. here be madame.”



the door have not open, and it do not open immediately.



Beauchamp have time to say, “believe in I.” even that be false to his

own hearing, and in a struggle with the painful impression of

insincerity which be deny and scorn by his impulse to fle his

arm round she and have she his for ever, he find himself

deferentially accept her brief direction concern her box at

the hotel, with Rosamund cull to witness.



she give he her hand.



he bow over the finger. “until to-morrow, madame.”



“Adieu!” say Renée.









CHAPTER XLII.

the two passion





the foggy February night refresh his head, and the business of

fetch the luggage from the hotel—a commission that necessitate the

delivery of his card and some very commanding language—keep his mind in

order. subsequently he drive to his cousin Baskelett’s Club, where he

leave a short note to say the house be engage for the night and

perhaps a week far. Concise, but sufficient: and he state a hope

to his cousin that he would not be inconvenience. this be courteous.



he have take a bed at Renée’s hotel, after wrest her box from the

vanquish hotel proprietor, and lie there, hear the clear sound of

every little sentence of her during the absence of Rosamund: she

“_adieu_,” and the strange “_do you think so?_” and “_I know where I

be; I scarcely know more_.” her eye and their dark lash, and the

fitful little sensitive dimple of a smile without joy, come with her

voice, but harden to an aspect unlike she. not a word could he

recover of what she have speak before Rosamund’s intervention. he

fancy she must have relate detail of her journey. especially there

must have be mention, he think, of her drive to the station from

Tourdestelle; and this flash on he the scene of his ride to the

château, and the meeting she on the road, and the white light on the

branching river, and all that be Renée in the spirit of the place she

have abandon for he, believe in he. she have prove that she

believe in he. what in the name of sanity have be the meaning of his

language? and what be it between they that arrest he and cause he

to mumble absurdly of “do good,” when in fact he be her bondman,

rejoice to be so, by his pledge word? and when she, for some reason

that he be sure she have state, though he could recollect no more than

the formless hideousness of it, be debar from return to

Tourdestelle?



he toss in his bed as over a furnace, in the extremity of perplexity

of one accustomed to think himself ever demonstrably in the right, and

now with his whole nature in insurrection against that legitimate

claim. it lead he to accuse she of a want of passionate warmth, in she

not having supplicate and upbraid he—not behave theatrically, in

fine, as the ranting pen have make we expect of emergent lady that

they will naturally do. concern himself, he think commendingly, a

tear would have overcome he. she have not weep. the kaleidoscope be

shake in his fragmentary mind, and she appear thrice adorable for

this noble composure, he brutish.



Conscience and reason have resolve to a dead weight in he, like an

inanimate force, govern his act despite the man, while he be with

Renée. now his wish and wavering conjure up a semblance of a

conscience and much reason to assure he that he have do foolishly as

well as unkindly, most unkindly: that he be even the ghastly spectacle

of a creature attempt to be more than he can be. be we never to

embrace our inclination? be the law regulate an old dry man like

his teacher and guide to be the same for the young and vigorous?



be a good gift to be refuse? and this be his first love! the

brilliant Renée, many-hue as a tropic bird! his lady of shine grace,

with her sole fault of want of courage devotedly amend! his pupil, he

might say, of whom he have foretell that she must come to such a pass,

at the same time prefix his fidelity. and he be hand she over

knowingly to one kind of wretchedness—“_son amour, mon ami_,” shoot

through he, light up the gulfs of a mind in wreck;—and one kind of

happiness could certainly be promise she!



all these and innumerable other handsome pleading of the simulacrum of

the power he have set up to rule, be crush at daybreak by the

reality in a sense of weight that push he mechanically on. he

telegraph to Roland, and mentally give chase to the message to recall

it. the slumberer rouse in darkness by the relentless insane-seem

bell which hale he to duty, melt at the charm of sleep, and feel

that logic be with he in his preference of his pillow; but the

tireless revolve world outside, nature’s pitiless antagonist, have

hang one of its balance about he, and his action be direct by the

state of the scale, wherein duty weigh deep and desireability swing

like a pendant doll: so he throw on his harness, astounded, till his

blood quicken with work, at the round of sacrifice demand of

nature: which be indeed curious consider what we be teach here and

there as to the infallibility of our august mother. well, the world of

humanity have do this for Beauchamp. his afflicted historian be

compel to fle his net among prosaic similitude for an

illustration of one thus degradedly in its grip. if he have be off

with his love like the rover! why, then the Muse would have loosen

her lap like May shower flower-bud, and we might have knock great

nature up from her sleep to embellish his desperate proceeding with

hurricane to be dance over, to say nothing of imitative sphere

dash out into hurly-burly after his example.



conscious rectitude, too, after the pattern of the well-behave AEneas

quit the fair bosom of carthage in obedience to the Gods, for an

example to his Roman progeny, might have stiffen his backbone and put

a crown upon his brow. it happen with he that his original training

rather impose the idea that he be a figure to be deride. the

approval of he by the prudent be a disgust, and by the pious

tasteless. he have not any consolation in revert to Dr. Shrapnel’s

heavy puritanism. on the contrary, such a general proposition as that

of the sage of Bevisham could not for a moment stand against the

pathetic special case of Renée: and as far as Beauchamp’s active mind

go, he be for demand that Society should take a new position in

morality, considerably broad, and adapt to very special case.



nevertheless he be hardly grieve in miss Renée at Rosamund’s

breakfast-table. Rosamund inform he that Madame de Rouaillout’s door

be lock. her particular news for he be of a disgraceful alarum

raise by Captain Baskelett in the night, to obtain admission; and of

an interview she have with he in the early morning, when he subject

she to great insolence. beauchamp’s attention be draw to her

repetition of the phrase “mistress of the house.” however, she do he

justice in regard to Renée, and thoroughly enter into the fiction of

Renée’s visit to she as her guest: he pass over everything else.



to stop the mouth of a scandal-monger, he drive full speed to Cecil’s

Club, where he hear that the captain have breakfast and have just

depart for Romfrey Castle. he follow to the station. the train have

start. so mischief be roll in that direction.



late at night Rosamund be allow to enter the chill unlighted

chamber, where the unhappy lady have be lie for hour in the gloom

of a London Winter’s daylight and gaslight.



“Madame de Rouaillout be indispose with headache,” be her report to

Beauchamp.



the conventional phraseology appease he, though he see his grief

behind it.



presently he ask if Renée have take food.



“no: you know what a headache be,” Rosamund reply.



it be true that we do not care to eat when we be in pain.



he ask if she look ill.



“she will not have light in the room,” say Rosamund.



Piecemeal he gain the picture of Renée in an image of the death

within which welcome a death without.



Rosamund be impatient with he for speak of medical aid. these man!

she remark very honestly:



“oh, no; doctor be not need.”



“have she mention I?”



“not once.”



“why do you swing your watch-chain, ma’am?” cry Beauchamp, bound

off his chair.



he reproach she with either pretend to indifference or feel it;

and then insist on his privilege of go up-stair—accompany by

she, of course; and then it be to be only to the door; then an answer

to a message be to satisfy he.



“any message would trouble she: what message would you send?” Rosamund

ask he.



the weighty and the trivial contend; no fitting message could be

think of.



“you be unused to real suffering—that be for women!—and want to be

do instead of endure,” say Rosamund.



she be begin to put faith in the innocence of these two mortally

sick lover. beauchamp’s outcry against himself give she the shadow

of their story. he stand in tear—a thing to see to believe of Nevil

Beauchamp; and plainly he do not know it, or else he would have take

her advice to he to leave the house at an hour that be long past

midnight. her method for induce he to go be base on her intimate

knowledge of he: she make as if to soothe and kiss he

compassionately.



in the morning there be a fly word from Roland, on his way to

England. Rosamund temper her report of Renée by say of she, that

she be very quiet. he turn to the window.



“look, what a climate our be!” Beauchamp abuse the persistent fog.

“dull, cold, no sky, a horrible air to breathe! this be what she have

come to! have she speak of I yet?”



“no.”



“be she dead silent?”



“she answer, if I speak to she.”



“I believe, ma’am,” say Beauchamp, “that we be the coldest-hearte

people in Europe.”



Rosamund do not defend we, or the fog. consequently nothing be leave

for he to abuse but himself. in that she try to moderate he, and

draw forth a torrent of self-vituperation, after which he sink into the

speechless misery he have be evade; until sophistical fancy, another

evolution of his nature, persuade he that Roland, see Renée, would

for love’s sake be friendly to they.



“I should have tell you, Nevil, by the way, that the earl be dead,”

say Rosamund.



“her brother will be here to-day; he cann’t be later than the evening,”

say Beauchamp. “get she to eat, ma’am; you must. command she to eat.

this terrible starvation!”



“you eat nothing yourself, Nevil, all day yesterday.”



he survey the table. “you have your cook in town, I see. here’s a

breakfast to feed twenty hungry family in Spitalfields. where do

the mass of meat go? one excess feed another. you’re overdone with

servant. Gluttony, laziness, and pilfer come of your host of

unmanageable footman and maid; you stuff they, and wonder they’re idle

and immoral. if—I suppose I must call he the earl now, or Colonel

Halkett, or any one of the army of rich man, hear of an increase of the

income-tax, or some poor wretch hint at a slide scale of taxation,

they yell as if they be thumb-screw: but five shilling in the

pound go to the kitchen as a matter of course—to puff those pompous

idiot! and the parson, who should be preach against this sheer

waste of food and perversion of the strength of the nation, as a public

sin, be maunder about schism. there’s another idle army! then we

have artist, author, lawyer, doctor—the honourable profession! all

hang upon wealth, all age the rich, and all bear upon labour!

it’s incubus on incubus. in point of fact, the rider’s too heavy for

the horse in England.”



he begin to nibble at bread.



Rosamund push over to he a plate of the celebrated Steynham pie, of

her own invention, such as no house in the county of Sussex could

produce or imitate.



“what would you have the parson do?” she say.



“take the rich by the throat and show they in the kitchen-mirror that

they’re swine run down to the sea with a devil in they.” she have

set he off again, but she have entice he to eat. “Pooh! it have all

be say before. stone be easy to move than your English. may I be

forgive for say it! an invasion be what they want to bring they to

their sense. I’m sick of the work. why should I be deny—be I to kill

the woman I love that I may go on hammer at they? their idea of

liberty be, an evasion of public duty. Dr. Shrapnel’s right—it’s a

money-log Island! man like the Earl of Romfrey, who have never do

work in their day except to kill bear and bird, I say they’re

stifle by wealth: and he at least would have make an Admiral of mark,

or a general: not of much value, but useful in case of need. but he,

like a pretty woman, be under no obligation to contribute more than an

ornamental person to the common good. as to that, we count he by ten

of thousand now, and his footman and maid by hundred of thousand.

the rich love the nation through their possession; otherwise they have

no country. if they love the country they would care for the people.

their heart be eat up by property. I be bid to hold my tongue

because I have no knowledge. when man who have this ‘knowledge’ will go

down to the people, speak to they, consult and argue with they, and

come into suitable relation with they—I don’t say of lord and

retainer, but of knower and doer, leader and follower—out of

consideration for public safety, if not for the common good, I shall

hang back gladly; though I willn’t hear misstatement. my fault be, that

I be too moderate. I should respect myself more if I deserve their

hatred. this flood of luxury, which be, as Dr. Shrapnel say, the

body’s drunkenness and the soul’s death, cry for execration. I’m too

moderate. but I shall quit the country: I’ve no place here.”



Rosamund ahemed. “France, Nevil? I should hardly think that France

would please you, in the present state of thing over there.”



half cynically, with great satisfaction, she have watch he fret

at the savoury morsel of her pie with a fork like a sparrow-beak

during the monologue that would have be so dreary to she but for her

appreciation of the wholesome effect of the letting off of steam, and

her admiration of the fire of his eye. after finish his plate he

have less the look of a ship drive on to reef—some of his image of

the country. he call for claret and water, sigh as he munch

bread in vast portion, evidently conceive that to eat unbuttere

bread be to abstain from luxury. he praise passingly the quality of

the bread. it come from Steynham, and so do the milk and cream, the

butter, chicken and egg. he be good enough not to object to the

expenditure upon the transmission of the accustomed dainty.

altogether the gradual act of nibble have conduce to his eating

remarkably well—royally. Rosamund’s more than half-cynical idea of

man, and her custom of wring unanimous verdict from a jury of

temporary impression, incline she to imagine he a lover that have not

to be so very much condole with, and a politician less alarming in

practice than in theory:—somewhat a gentleman of domestic tirade on

politic: as it be observe of your generous young Radical of birth and

fortune, that he will become on the old high road to a round

Conservatism.



he pitch one of the morning paper to the floor in disorderly sheet,

mutter: “so they’re at I!”



“be Dr. Shrapnel well?” she ask. “I hold to a good appetite as a

sign of a man’s recovery.”



Beauchamp be confront the fog at the window. he swing round: “Dr.

Shrapnel be well. he have a particularly clever young female cook.”



“ah! then...”



“yes, then, naturally! he would naturally hasten to recover to partake

of the viand, ma’am.”



Rosamund murmur of her gladness that he should be able to enjoy they.



“oddly enough, he be not an eater of meat,” say Beauchamp.



“a vegetarian!”



“I beg you not to mention the fact to my lord. you see, you yourself

can scarcely pardon it. he do not exclude flesh from his table.

blackburn Tuckham dine there once. ‘you be a thorough revolutionist,

Dr. Shrapnel,’ he observe. the doctor do not exclude wine, but he

do not drink it. poor Tuckham go away entirely opposed to a Radical

he could not even meet as a boon-fellow. I beg he not to mention

the circumstance, as I have beg you. he pledge I his word to that

effect solemnly; he correctly feel that if the truth be know, there

would be further cause for the reprobation of the man who have be his

host.”



“and that poor girl, Nevil?”



“Miss Denham? she contract the habit of eat meat at school, and

drink wine in Paris, and continue it, occasionally. now run

upstairs. insist on food. Inform Madame de Rouaillout that her brother

M. le comte de Croisnel will soon be here, and should not find her ill.

talk to she as you woman can talk. keep the blind down in her room;

light a dozen wax-candle. tell she I have no thought but of she. it’s

a lie: of no woman but of she: that you may say. but that you cann’t

say. you can say I be devoted—ha, what stuff! I’ve only to open my

mouth!—say nothing of I: let she think the bad—unless it come to a

question of her life: then be a merciful good woman...” he squeeze she

finger, communicate his muscular tremble to her sensitive woman’s

frame, and electrically convince she that he be a lover.



she go up-stair. in ten minute she descend, and find he pace

up and down the hall. “Madame de Rouaillout be much the same,” she

say. he nod, look up the stair, and about for his hat and

glove, draw on the glove, fix the button, blink at his watch,

and settle his hat as he be accustomed to wear it, all very

methodically, and talk rapidly, but except for certain precise

direction, which be not need by so careful a housekeeper and nurse

as Rosamund be know to be, she could not catch a word of meaning. he

have some appointment, it seem; perhaps he be off for a doctor—a

fresh instance of his masculine incapacity to understand patient

endurance. after open the housedoor, and return to the foot of

the stair, listening and sighing, he disappear.



it strike she that he be try to be two man at once.



the litter of newspaper sheet in the morning-room bring his

exclamation to her mind: “they’re at I!” her eye run down the

column, and be seize by the print of his name in large type. a

lead article be devoted to Commander’s Beauchamp’s recent speech

deliver in the great manufacturing town of Gunningham, at a meeting

under the presidency of the mayor, and his reply to particular

question address to he; one be, what right do he conceive

himself to have to wear the Sovereign’s uniform in profess

republican opinion? Rosamund wince for her darling during her first

perusal of the article. it be of the sarcastically caressing kind,

masterly in ease of style, as the flourish of the executioner well may

be with poor Bare-back hang up to a leisurely administration of the

scourge. an allusion to “Jack on shore” almost persuade she that his

uncle Everard have inspire the writer of the article. beauchamp’s reply

to the question of his loyalty be not quote: he be, however,

compliment on his frankness. at the same time he be assure that his

error lie in a too great proneness to make distinction, and that there

be no distinction between sovereign and country in a loyal and

content land, which could thank he for gallant service in war,

while take he for the solitary example to be cite at the present

period of the evil of a comparatively long peace.



“doubtless the tedium of such a state to a man of the temperament of

the gallant commander,” etc., the termination of the article be

indulgent. rosamund recur to the final paragraph for comfort, and

though she love Beauchamp, the test of her representative feminine

sentiment regard his political career, when personal feeling on his

behalf have subside, be, that the writer of the article must have

receive an intimation to deal both smartly and forbearingly with the

offender: and from whom but her lord? her notion of the conduct of the

Press be primitive. in a summary of the article Beauchamp be treat

as naughty boy, formerly brave boy, and likely by-and-by to be good

boy. her secret heart would have speak similarly, with more emphasis

on the flattering term.



a telegram arrive from her lord. she be bid to have the house

clear for he by noon of the next day.



how could that be do?



but to write blankly to inform the Earl of Romfrey that he be exclude

from his own house be another impossibility.



“hateful man!” she apostrophize Captain Baskelett, and sit down,

support her chin in a prolonged meditation.



the card of a french lady, bear the name of Madame d’Auffray, be

hand to she.



Beauchamp have go off to his friend Lydiard, to fortify himself in his

resolve to reply to that newspaper article by elicit counsel to the

contrary. phrase by phrase he fight through the first half of his

composition of the reply against Lydiard, yield to he on a point or

two of literary judgement, only the more vehemently to maintain his

idea of discretion, which be, that he would not take shelter behind

a single subterfuge; that he would try this question nakedly, though he

should stand alone; that he would stake his position on it, and

establish his right to speak his opinion: and as for unseasonable

time, he protest it be the cry of a gorge middle-class, frighten

of further action, and make snug with compromise. would it be a

seasonable time when there be uproar? then it would be a time to be

silent on such theme: they could be discuss calmly now, and without

danger; and whether he be hunt or not, he care nothing. he decline

to consider the peculiar nature of Englishmen: they must hear truth or

perish.



know the difficulty once afflict Beauchamp in the art of speak

on politic tersely, Lydiard be rather astonished at his

well-deliver cannonade; and he fancy that his modesty have be

displace by the new acquirement; not know the nervous fever of his

friend’s condition, for which the rattle of speech be balm, and

contention a native element, and the assumption of truth a necessity.

Beauchamp hug his politic like some who show their love of the

pleasure of life by take to they angrily. it be all he have: he have

give up all for it. he force Lydiard to lay down his pen and walk

back to the square with he, and go on argue, interject,

sneer, thump the old country, raise and overset she,

treat she alternately like a disrespected grandmother, and like a

woman anciently belove; as a dead lump, and as a garden of seed;

review prominent political man, laugh at the dwarf-giant;

finally cast anchor on a Mechanics’ Institute that he have recently

hear of, where work man meet weekly for the purpose of read the

british poet.



“that’s the good thing I’ve hear of late,” he say, shake Lydiard’s

hand on the door-step.



“ah! you’re Commander Beauchamp; I think I know you. I’ve see you on a

platform,” cry a fresh-faced man in decent clothe, halt on his

way along the pavement; “and if you be in your uniform, you damn

republican dog! I’d strip you with my own hand, for the disloyal

scoundrel you be, with your pimp Republicanism and capsize

everything in a country like Old England. it’s the cat-o’-nine-tail

you want, and the bosen to lay on; and I’d do it myself. and mind I,

when next I catch sight of you in blue and gold lace, I’ll compel you

to show cause why you wear it, and prove your case, or else I’ll make a

Cupid of you, and no joke about it. I don’t pay money for a nincompoop

to outrage my feeling of respect and loyalty, when he’s in my pay, d’

ye hear? you’re in my pay: and you do your duty, or I’ll kick ye out of

it. it’s no empty threat. you look out for your next public speech, if

it’s anywhere within forty mile of London. get along.”



with a scowl, and a very ugly “yah!” worthy of cannibal jaw, the man

pass off.



Beauchamp keep eye on he. “what class do a fellow like that come

of?”



“he’s a harmless enthusiast,” say Lydiard. “he have be read the

article, and have get excited over it.”



“I wish I have the fellow’s address.” Beauchamp look wistfully at

Lydiard, but he do not stimulate the generous offer to obtain it for

he. perhaps it be as well to forget the fellow.



“you see the effect of those article,” he say.



“you see what I mean by unseasonable time,” Lydiard retort.



“he don’t talk like a tradesman,” Beauchamp muse.



“he may be one, for all that. it’s well to class he as an

enthusiast.”



“an enthusiast!” Beauchamp stamp: “for what?”



“for the exist order of thing; for his beef and ale; for the title

he be accustomed to read in the paper. you don’t study your

countryman.”



“I’d study that fellow, if I have the chance.”



“you would probably find he one of the empty, with a rather bad

temper than most of they.”



Beauchamp shake Lydiard’s hand, say, “the widow?”



“there’s no woman like she!”



“well, now you’re free—why not? I think I put one man out of the

field.”



“too early! besides—”



“repeat that, and you may have to say too late.”



“when shall you go down to Bevisham?”



“when? I cann’t tell: when I’ve go through fire. there never be a

home for I like the cottage, and the old man, and the dear good

girl—the good of girl! if you haven’t a little spoilt she with your

philosophy of the two side of the case.”



“I’ve not give she the brain.”



“she’s always doubtful of do, doubtful of action: she have no will.

so she be fatalistic, and an argument between we end in she

submit, as if she must submit to I, because I’m overbearing,

instead of accept the fact.”



“she feel your influence.”



“she’s against the publication of the DAWN—for the present. it’s an

‘unseasonable time.’ I argue with she: I don’t get hold of her mind a

bit; but at last she say, ‘very well.’ she have your head.”



and you have her heart, Lydiard could have rejoin.



they say good-bye, neither of they aware of the other’s task of

endurance.



as they be part, Beauchamp perceive his old comrade Jack Wilmore

walk past.



“Jack!” he call.



Wilmore glance round. “how do you do, Beauchamp?”



“where be you off to, Jack?”



“down to the Admiralty. I’m rather in a hurry; I have an appointment.”



“cann’t you stop just a minute?”



“I’m afraid I cann’t. good morning.”



it be incredible; but this old friend, the simple heart alive,

retreat without a touch of his hand, and with a sorely wound air.



“that newspaper article appear to have be generally read,” Beauchamp

say to Lydiard, who answer:



“the article do not put the idea of you into man’s mind, but give

tongue to it: you may take it for an instance of the sagacity of the

Press.”



“you wouldn’t take that man and I to have be messmate for year!

Old Jack Wilmore! don’t go, Lydiard.”



Lydiard declare that he be bind to go: he be engage to read

Italian for an hour with Mrs. Wardour-Devereux.



“then go, by all mean,” Beauchamp dismiss he.



he feel as if he have hold a review of his friend and enemy on the

door-step, and find they of one colour. if it be an accident

befall he in a London square during a space of a quarter of an

hour, what of the sentiment of universal England? Lady Barbara’s

elopement with Lord Alfred last year do not rouse much execration;

hardly bad than gossip and compassion. Beauchamp drink a great deal

of bitterness from his reflection.



they who provoke huge battle, and gain but lame victory over

themselves, insensibly harden to the habit of distil sour thought

from their mischance and from most occurrence. so do the world they

combat win on they.



“for,” say Dr. Shrapnel, “the world and nature, which be oppose in

relation to our vital interest, each agree to demand of we a perfect

victory, on pain otherwise of prove it a stage performance; and the

victory over the world, as over nature, be over self: and this victory

lie in yield perpetual service to the world, and none to nature:

for the world have to be work out, nature to be subdue.”



the interior of the house be like a change of element to Beauchamp.

he have never before say to himself, “I have do my good, and I be

beat!” outside of it, his native pugnacity have be stimulate; but

here, within the wall where Renée lie silently breathing, barely

breathing, it might be die, he be overcome, and leave it to

circumstance to carry he to a conclusion. he go up-stair to the

drawing-room, where he behold Madame d’Auffray in conversation with

Rosamund.



“I be assure by Madame la Comtesse that I should see you to-day,” the

french lady say as she swam to meet he; “it be a real pleasure”: and

press his hand she continue, “but I fear you will be disappoint

of see my sister. she would rashly try your climate at its bad

period. believe I, I do not join in decry it, except on her

account: I could have forewarn she of an English Winter and early

Spring. you know her impetuosity; suddenly she decide on accept the

invitation of Madame la Comtesse; and though I have no fear of her

health, she be at present a victim of the inclement weather.”



“you have see she, madame?” say Beauchamp. so well have the clever

lady play the dupe that he forget there be a part for he to play.

even the acquiescence of Rosamund in the title of countess bewilder

he.



“Madame d’Auffray have be sit for an hour with Madame de

Rouaillout,” say Rosamund.



he speak of Roland’s come.



“ah?” say Madame d’Auffray, and turn to Rosamund: “you have

determine to surprise we: then you will have a gathering of the whole

family in your hospitable house, Madame la Comtesse.”



“if M. la Marquis will do it that honour, madame.”



“my brother be in London,” Madame d’Auffray say to Beauchamp.



the shattering blow be merit by one who could not rejoice that he

have act rightly.









CHAPTER XLIII.

the EARL of ROMFREY and the COUNTESS





an extraordinary telegraphic message, follow by a still more

extraordinary letter the next morning, from Rosamund Culling, all but

interdict the immediate occupation of his house in town to Everard,

now Earl of Romfrey. she beg he briefly not to come until after the

funeral, and propose to give he good reason for her request at their

meeting. “I repeat, I pledge myself to satisfy you on this point,” she

write. her tone be that of one of your heroic woman of history

refuse to surrender a fortress.



Everard’s wrath be ever of a complexion that could suffer

postponement without his have to fear an abatement of it. he have no

business to transact in London, and he have much at the Castle, so he

yield himself up to his new sensation, which be not commonly the

portion of gentleman of his year. he anticipate that Nevil would at

least come down to the funeral, but there be no appearance of he, nor

a word to excuse his absence. cecil be his only supporter. they walk

together between the double rank of bare poll of the tenantry and

peasantry, resemble in a fashion old Froissart engraving the earl

use to dote on in his boyhood, represent body of manacle

citizen, whose humble head look like nut to be crack, outside

the gate of capture french town, await the disposition of their

conqueror, with his banner above he and prance knight around. that

be a glory of the past. he have no successor. the thought be chill;

the solitariness of childlessness to an aged man, chief of a most

ancient and martial House, and proud of his blood, give he the

statue’s outlook on a desert, and make he feel that he be no more

than a whirl of the dust, settle to the dust.



he listen to the parson curiously and consentingly. we be ashe. ten

century have come to an end in he to prove the formula correct. the

chronicle of the House would state that the last Earl of Romfrey leave

no heir.



Cecil be a fine figure walk beside he. measure by foot, he might

be a worthy holder of great land. but so heartily do the earl despise

this nephew that he never think of try strength with the fellow,

and hardly care to know what his value be, beyond his immediate use

as an instrument to strike with. Beauchamp of Romfrey have be his

dream, not Baskelett: and it increase his disgust of Beauchamp that

Baskelett should step forward as the man. no doubt Cecil would hunt the

county famously: he would preserve game with the sleepless eye of a

General of the Jesuits. these thing be to be consider.



two day after the funeral Lord Romfrey proceed to London. he be meet

at the station by Rosamund, and inform that his house be not yet

vacate by the french family.



“and where have you arrange for I to go, ma’am?” he ask she

complacently.



she name an hotel where she have take room for he.



he nod, and be drive to the hotel, say little on the road.



as she expect, he be heavily armed against she and Nevil.



“you’re the slave of the fellow, ma’am. you be so infatuated that you

second his amour, in my house. I must wait for a clearance, it seem.”



he cast a comical glance of disapprobation on the fitting of the hotel

apartment, abhor gilt.



“they leave we the day after to-morrow,” say Rosamund, out of breath

with nervousness at the commencement of the fray, and skip over the

opening ground of a bold statement of fact. “Madame de Rouaillout have

be unwell. she be not yet recover; she have just rise. her

sister-in-law have nurse she. her husband seem much break in health;

he be perfect on the point of courtesy.”



“that be lucky, ma’am.”



“her brother, Nevil’s comrade in the war, be there also.”



“who come first?”



“my lord, you have only hear Captain Baskelett’s version of the story.

she have be my guest since the first day of her landing in England.

there cannot possibly be an imputation on she.”



“Ma’am, if her husband manage to be satisfied, what on earth have I to

do with it?”



“I be think of Nevil, my lord.”



“you’re never think of any one else, ma’am.”



“he sleep here, at this hotel. he leave the house to Madame de

Rouaillout. I bear witness to that.”



“you two seem to have make your preparation to stand a criminal

trial.”



“it be pure truth, my lord.”



“do you take I to be anxious about the fellow’s virtue?”



“she be a lady who would please you.”



“a scandal in my house do not please I.”



“the only approach to a scandal be make by Captain Baskelett.”



“a poor devil lock out of his bed on a Winter’s night hullabaloos

with pretty good reason. I suppose he feel the contrast.”



“my lord, this lady do I the honour to come to I on a visit. I have

not previously presume to entertain a friend. she probably form no

estimate of my exact position.”



the earl with a gesture imply Rosamund’s privilege to act the hostess

to friend.



“you invite she?” he say.



“that be, I have tell she I hope she would come to England.”



“she expect you to be at the house in town on her arrival?”



“it be her impulse to come.”



“she come alone?”



“she may have desire to be away from her own people for a time: there

may have be domestic difference. these case be delicate.”



“this case appear to have be so delicate that you have to lock out a

fourth party.”



“it be indelicate and base of Captain Baskelett to complain and to

hint. Nevil have to submit to the same; and Captain Baskelett take his

revenge on the housedoor and the bell. the house be visit by the

police next morning.”



“do you suspect he to have know you be inside the house that

night?”



she could not say so: but hatred of Cecil urge she past the bound of

habitual reticence to put it to her lord whether he, imagine the

bad, would have behave like Cecil.



to this he do not reply, but remark, “I be sorry he annoy you,

ma’am.”



“it be not the annoyance to I; it be the shocking, the unmanly

insolence to a lady, and a foreign lady.”



“that’s a matter between he and Nevil. I uphold he.”



“then, my lord, I be silent.”



Silent she remain; but Lord Romfrey be also silent: and silence

be a weapon of offence only when it be practise by one out of two,

she have to reflect whether in speak no far she have finish she

business.



“Captain Baskelett stay at the Castle?” she ask.



“he like his quarter there.”



“Nevil could not go down to Romfrey, my lord. he be oblige to wait,

and see, and help I to entertain, her brother and her husband.”



“why, ma’am? but I have no objection to his make the marquis a happy

husband.”



“he have do what few man would have do, that she may be a

self-respect wife.”



“the parson’s in that fellow!” Lord Romfrey exclaim. “now I have the

story. she come to he, he decline the gift, and you be turn into

the curtain for they. if he have only be off with she, he would have

do the country good service. here he’s a failure and a nuisance; he’s

a common cock-shy for the journal. I’m tired of hearing of he; he’s a

stench in our nostril. he’s tired of the woman.”



“he love she.”



“Ma’am, you’re hoodwink. if he refuse to have she, there’s a

something he love well. I don’t believe we’ve breed a downright

lackadaisical donkey in our family: I know he. he’s not a fellow for

abstract morality: I know he. it’s bargain against bargain with he;

I’ll do he that justice. I hear he have order the removal of the

Jersey bull from Holdesbury, and the beast be mine,” Lord Romfrey

conclude in a low key.



“Nevil have take he.”



“ha! pull and pull, then!”



“he contend that he be bind by a promise to give an american

gentleman the refusal of the bull, and you must sign an engagement to

keep the animal no long than two year.”



“I sign no engagement. I stick to the bull.”



“consent to see Nevil to-night, my lord.”



“when he have apologize to you, I may, ma’am.”



“surely he do more, in request I to render he a service.”



“there’s not a creature live that fellow wouldn’t get to serve he,

if he know the trick. we should all of we be march on London at

Shrapnel’s heel. the political mania be just as incurable as

hydrophobia, and he’s bite. that’s clear.”



“bite perhaps: but not mad. as you have always contend, the true

case be incurable, but it be very rare: and be this one?”



“it’s uncommonly like a true case, though I haven’t see he foam at

the mouth, and shun water—as his mob do.”



Rosamund restrain some tear, betray the effort to hide the

moisture. “I be no match for you, my lord. I try to plead on his

behalf;—I do bad than if I be dumb. this I most earnestly say: he

be the Nevil Beauchamp who fight for his country, and do not abandon

her cause, though he stand there—we have it from Colonel Halkett—a

skeleton: and he be the Nevil who—I be poorly pay my debt to

him!—defended I from the aspersion of his cousin.”



“boy!” Lord Romfrey ejaculate.



“it be the same dispute between they as man.”



“have you forget my proposal to shield you from liar and

scandalmonger?”



“could I ever forget it?” Rosamund appear to come shine out of a

cloud. “princeliest and true gentleman, I think you then, and I

know you to be, my dear lord. I fancy I have live the scandal down. I

be under the delusion that I have grow to be past backbiting: and that

no man could stand before I to insult and vilify I. but, for a woman

in any so-call doubtful position, it seem that the coward will not

be want to strike she. in quit your service, I be able to affirm

that only once during the whole term of it have I consciously

overstep the line of my duty: it be for Nevil: and captain

Baskelett undertake to defend your reputation, in consequence.”



“have the rascal be question your conduct?” the earl frown.



“oh, no! not question: he do not question, he accuse: he never

doubt: and what he went shout as a boy, be plain matter of fact to

he now. he be devoted to you. it be for your sake that he desire I

to keep my name from be mix up in a scandal he foresee the

occurrence of in your house.”



“he permit himself to sneer at you?”



“he have the art of sneer. on this occasion he wish to be direct

and personal.”



“what sort of hint be they?”



Lord Romfrey stride away from her chair that the answer might be easy

to she, for she be red, and evidently suffer from shame as well as

indignation.



“the hint we call distinct.” say Rosamund.



“in word?”



“in hard word.”



“then you willn’t meet Cecil?”



such a question, and the tone of indifference in which it come,

surprised and revolt she so that the unreflecte reply leapt out:



“I would rather meet a devil.”



of how tremblingly, vehemently, and hastily she have say it, she be

unaware. to her lord it be an outcry of nature, astutely touch by

he to put she to proof.



he continue his long leisurely stride, nod over his foot.



Rosamund stand up. she look a very noble figure in her broad

black-furred robe. “I have one serious confession to make, sir.”



“what’s that?” say he.



“I would avoid it, for it cannot lead to particular harm; but I have an

enemy who may poison your ear in my absence. and first I resign my

position. I have forfeit it.”



“time go forward, ma’am, and you go round. speak to the point. do you

mean that you toss up the rein of my household?”



“I do. you trace it to Nevil immediately?”



“I do. the fellow want to upset the country, and he begin with I.”



“you be wrong, my lord. what I have do place I at Captain

Baskelett’s mercy. it be too loathsome to think of: bad than the

whip; bad than your displeasure. it might never be know; but the

think that it might give I courage. you have say that to protect a

woman everything be permissible. it be your creed, my lord, and because

the world, I have hear you say, be unjust and implacable to woman. in

some case, I think so too. in reality I follow your instruction; I

mean, your example. cheap chivalry on my part! but it pain I not a

little. I beg to urge that in my defence.”



“well, ma’am, you have tie the knot tight enough; perhaps now you’ll

cut it,” say the earl.



Rosamund gasp softly. “M. le Marquis be a gentleman who, after a life

of dissipation, have be remind by bad health that he have a young and

beautiful wife.”



“he dig his pit to fall into it:—he’s jealous?”



she shake her head to indicate the immeasurable.



“senile jealousy be anxious to be deceive. he could hardly be deceive

so far as to imagine that Madame la Marquise would visit I, such as I

be, as my guest. knowingly or not, his very clever sister, a good

woman, and a friend to husband and wife—a Frenchwoman of the purest

type—give I the title. she insist on it, and I presume to guess

that she deem it necessary for the sake of peace in that home.”



Lord Romfrey appear merely inquisitive; his eyebrow be lift in

permanence; his eye be mild.



she continue: “they leave England in a few hour. they be not likely

to return. I permit he to address I with the title of countess.”



“of Romfrey?” say the earl.



Rosamund bow.



his mouth contract. she do not expect thunder to issue from it, but

she do fear to hear a sarcasm, or that she would have to endure a

deadly silence: and she be gather her own lip in imitation of his,

to nerve herself for some stroke to come, when he laugh in his

peculiar close-mouthed manner.



“I’m afraid you’ve dish yourself.”



“you cannot forgive I, my lord?”



he indulge in more of his laughter, and abruptly summon gravity,

bid her talk to he of affair. he himself talk of the condition of

the Castle, and with a certain off-hand contempt of the lady of the

family, and Cecil’s father, Sir John. “what be they to I?” say he,

and he complain of having be call Last Earl of Romfrey.



“the line end undegenerate,” say Rosamund fervidly, though she know

not where she stand.



“end!” quoth the earl.



“I must see stukely,” he add briskly, and stoop to she: “I beg you

to drive I to my Club, countess.”



“oh! sir.”



“once a countess, always a countess!”



“but once an impostor, my lord?”



“not always, we’ll hope.”



he enjoy this little variation in the language of comedy; let it

drop, to say: “be here to-morrow early. don’t chase that family away

from the house. do as you will, but not a word of Nevil to I: he’s a

bad mess in any man’s porringer; it’s time for I to claim exemption of

he from mine.”



she dared not let her thought flow, for to think be to triumph, and

possibly to be delude. they come in copious volume when Lord Romfrey,

alight at his Club, call to the coachman: “drive the countess

home.”



they be not thought of triumph absolutely. in her cool mind she

feel that it be a bad finish of a gallant battle. few woman have rise

against a tattling and pelt world so stedfastly; and would it not

have be well to keep her own ground, which she have win with tear

and some natural strength, and therewith her liberty, which she prize?

the hateful Cecil, a reminder of whom set her cheek burn and turn

her heart to serpent, have force she to it. so she honestly conceive,

owe to the circumstance of she honestly dislike the pomp of life

and not desire to occupy any position of brilliancy. she think

assuredly of her hoard of animosity toward the scandalmonger, and of

the quiet glance she would cast behind on they, and below. that thought

come as a fruit, not as a reflection.



but if ever two offend young gentleman, nephew of a long-suffer

uncle, be circumvent, undermine, and strike to earth, with one

blow, here be the instance. this be accomplish by Lord Romfrey’s

resolution to make the lady he have learn to esteem his countess: and

more, it fix to he for life one whom he could not bear to think of

lose: and still more, it might be; but what more be unwritten on his

tablet.



Rosamund fail to recollect that Everard Romfrey never take a step

without see a combination of object to be gain by it.









CHAPTER XLIV.

the nephew of the earl, and another exhibition of the two passion in

BEAUCHAMP





it be now the season when London be as a lighted tower to her

province, and, among other gentleman hurry thither by attraction,

Captain Baskelett arrive. although not a personage in the House of

Commons, he be a vote; and if he never commit himself to the peril

of a speech, he make himself hear. his be the part of chorus, which

he perform with a fairly close imitation of the original cry of

period before parliament be institute, thus represent a stage

in the human development besides the borough of Bevisham. he arrive in

the good of mood for the emission of high-pitch vowel-sound;

otherwise in the bad of temper. his uncle have notify an addition

of his income to he at Romfrey, together with command that he should

quit the castle instantly: and there do that woman, Mistress Culling,

do the honour to Nevil Beauchamp’s french party. he assure Lord

Palmet of his positive knowledge of the fact, incredible as the

sanction of such immoral proceeding by the Earl of Romfrey must appear

to that young nobleman. addition to income be of course acceptable,

but in the form of a palpable stipulation for silence, they neither

awaken gratitude nor effect their purpose. quite the contrary; they

prick the moral mind to sit in judgement on the donor. it mean, she

fear I! Cecil confidently think and say of the intriguing woman

who manage his patron.



the town-house be open to he. Lord Romfrey be at Steynham. cecil

could not suppose that he be fall into a pit in enter it. he

happen to be the favourite of the old housekeeper, who like he for

his haughtiness, which be to she think the sign of real english

nobility, and perhaps it be the popular sign, and a tonic to the

people. she raise lamentation over the shame of the locking of the

door against he that awful night, declare she have almost muster

courage to go down to he herself, in spite of Mrs. Culling’s order.

the old woman lower her voice to tell he that her official superior

have permit the french gentleman and lady to call her countess.

this she know for a certainty, though she know nothing of French; but

the french lady who come second bring a maid who know English a

little, and she say the very word—the countess, and say also that

her party take Mrs. Culling for the Countess of Romfrey. what be more,

my lord’s coachman catch it up, and he call her countess, and he have

a quarrel about it with the footman Kendall; and the day after a

dreadful affair between they in the mew, home drive madam, and

Kendall be to go up to she, and down the poor man come, and not a word

to be get out of he, but as if he have see a ghost. “she have such

power,” Cecil’s admirer conclude.



“I wager I match she,” Cecil say to himself, pull at his wristband

and let his low tooth shine out. the mean of match she be

not so palpable as the resolution. first he take man into his

confidence. then he touch lightly on the story to lady, with the

question, “what ought I to do?” in consideration for the Earl of

Romfrey he ought not to pass it over, he suggest. the lady of the

family urge he to go to Steynham and boldly confront the woman. he

be not prepare for that. well, it seem to he, to blow the

rumour, and make it the topic of the season, until Lord Romfrey should

hear of it. Cecil have the ear of the town for a month. he be in the

act of slice the air with his right hand in his accustomed style, one

evening at Lady Elsea’s, to protest how vast be the dishonour do to

the family by Mistress Culling, when Stukely Culbrett stop he,

say, “the lady you speak of be the Countess of Romfrey. I be

present at the marriage.”



Cecil receive the shock in the attitude of those martial figure we

see wield two wooden sword in provincial garden to tell the

disposition of the wind: abruptly abandon by it, they stand

transfix, one sword aloft, the other at their heel. the resemblance

extend to his astonished countenance. his big chest heave. like many

another wound giant before he, he experience the insufficiency of

interjection to solace pain. for they, however, the rock be handy

to fle, the tree to uproot; heaven’s concave resound companionably

to their bellowing. relief of so concrete a kind be not to be obtain

in crowded London assembly.



“you be jesting?—you be a jester,” he contrive to say.



“it be a private marriage, and I be a witness,” reply stukely.



“Lord Romfrey have make an honest woman of she, have he?”



“a peeress, you mean.”



Cecil bow. “exactly. I be correct. I mean a peeress.”



he get out of the room with as high an air as he could command, feel

as if a bar of iron have flatten his head.



next day it be intimate to he by one of the Steynham servant that

apartment be ready for he at the residence of the late earl: Lord

Romfrey’s house be about to be occupy by the Countess of Romfrey.

Cecil have to quit, and he choose to be enamour of that dignity of

sulk so seductive to the wound spirit of man.



Rosamund, Countess of Romfrey, have bad to endure from Beauchamp. he

indeed come to the house, and he go through the formality of

congratulation, but his opinion of her step be unconceale, that she

have take it for the title. he distress she by revive the case of

Dr. Shrapnel, as though it be a matter of yesterday, tell she she

have marry a man with a stain on he; she should have exact the

Apology as a nuptial present; ay, and she would have do it if she have

care for the earl’s honour or her own. so little do he understand

man! so tenacious be he of his idea! she have almost forget the

case of Dr. Shrapnel, and to see it shoot up again in the new path

of her life be really irritate.



Rosamund do not defend herself.



“I be very glad you have come, Nevil,” she say; “your uncle hold to

the ceremony. I may be of real use to you now; I wish to be.”



“you have only to prove it,” say he. “if you can turn his mind to

marriage, you can send he to Bevisham.”



“my chief thought be to serve you.”



“I know it be, I know it be,” he rejoin with some fervour. “you have

serve I, and make I miserable for life, and rightly. never mind,

all’s well while the hand’s to the axe.” Beauchamp smooth his

forehead roughly, try hard to inspire himself with the tonic

draught of sentiment cast in the form of proverb. “Lord Romfrey see

she, you say?”



“he do, Nevil, and admire she.”



“well, if I suffer, let I think of _she!_ for courage and nobleness I

shall never find she equal. have you change your idea of Frenchwomen

now? not a word, you say, not a look, to show her disdain of I

whenever my name be mention!”



“she could scarcely feel disdain. she be guilty of a sad error.”



“through trusting in I. will nothing teach you where the fault lie?

you woman have no mercy for woman. she go through the parade to

Romfrey Castle and back, and she must have be perish at heart.

that, you english call act. in history you have a respect for such

act up to the scaffold. good-bye to she! there’s a story end. one

thing you must promise: you’re a peeress, ma’am: the story’s out,

everybody have hear of it; that babbler have do his bad: if you have

a become appreciation of your title, you will promise I honestly—no,

give I your word as a woman I can esteem—that you will not run about

excuse I. whatever you hear say or suggest, say nothing yourself.

I insist on your keeping silence. press my hand.”



“Nevil, how foolish!”



“it’s my will.”



“it be unreasonable. you give your enemy licence.”



“I know what’s in your head. take my hand, and let I have your word

for it.”



“but if person you like very much, Nevil, should hear?”



“promise. you be a woman not to break your word.”



“if I decline?”



“your hand! I’ll kiss it.”



“oh! my darling.” Rosamund fling her arm round he and strain he an

instant to her bosom. “what have I but you in the world? my comfort be

the hope that I might serve you.”



“yes! by slay one woman as an offering to another. it would be

impossible for you to speak the truth. don’t you see, it would be a lie

against she, and make a figure of I that a man would rather drop to

the ground than have show of he? I be to blame, and only I. Madame

de Rouaillout be as utterly deceive by I as ever a trust woman by

a brute. I look at myself and hardly believe it’s the same man. I write

to she that I be unchanged—and I be entirely change, another

creature, anything Lord Romfrey may please to call I.”



“but, Nevil, I repeat, if Miss Halkett should hear...?”



“she know by this time.”



“at present she be ignorant of it.”



“and what be Miss Halkett to I?”



“More than you imagine in that struggle you undergo, I think, Nevil.

oh! if only to save she from Captain Baskelett! he gain your uncle’s

consent when they be at the Castle, to support he in propose for

she. he be persistent. woman have be snare without love. she be a

great heiress. reflect on his use of her wealth. you respect she, if

you have no warm feeling. let I assure you that the husband of

Cecilia, if he be of Romfrey blood, have the fair chance of the

estate. that man will employ every weapon. he will soon be here bow

to I to turn I to his purpose.”



“Cecilia can see through Baskelett,” say Beauchamp.



“single-mindedly selfish man may be see through and through, and still

be dangerous, nevil. the supposition be, that we know the bad of

they. he carry a story to poison her mind. she could resist it, if

you and she be in full confidence together. if she do not love you,

she could resist it. she do, and for some strange reason beyond my

capacity to fathom, you have not come to an understanding. sanction my

speak to she, just to put she on her guard, privately: not to injure

that poor lady, but to explain. shall she not know the truth? I need

say but very little. indeed, all I can say be, that find the

marquise in London one evening, you telegraph for I to attend on

she, and I join you. you shake your head. but surely it be due to

Miss Halkett. she should be protect from what will certainly wound

she deeply. her father be afraid of you, on the score of your theory.

I foresee it: he will hear the scandal: he will imagine you as bad in

moral as in politic. and you have lose your friend in Lord

Romfrey—though he shall not be your enemy. Colonel Halkett and Cecilia

call on we at Steynham. she be look beautiful; a trifle

melancholy. the talk be of your—that—I do not like it, but you hold

those opinion—the Republicanism. she have read your publish letter.

she speak to I of your sincerity. Colonel Halkett of course be vex.



it be the same with all your friend. she, however, by her tone, lead I

to think that she see you as you be, more than in what you do. they

be now in Wales. they will be in town after Easter. then you must

expect that her feel for you will be try, unless but you will! you

will let I speak to she, Nevil. my position allow I certain

liberty I be previously debar from. you have not be so very

tender to your Cecilia that you can afford to give her fresh reason

for sorrowful perplexity. and why should you stand to be blacken by

scandalmonger when a few word of mine will prove that instead of weak

you have be strong, instead of libertine blameless? I be not use

fine phrase: I would not. I would be as thoughtful of you as if you

be present. and for her sake, I repeat, the truth should be tell to

she. I have a lock of her hair.”



“Cecilia’s? where?” say Beauchamp.



“it be at Steynham.” Rosamund prim her lip at the success of she

probe touch; but she be unaware of the chief reason for his doting

on those fair lock, and how they colour his imagination since the

day of the drive into Bevisham.



“now leave I, my dear Nevil,” she say. “Lord Romfrey will soon be

here, and it be as well for the moment that you should not meet he, if

it can be avoid.”



Beauchamp leave she, like a man out-argue and overcome. he have no wish

to meet his uncle, whose behaviour in contract a misalliance and

cast a shadow on the family, in a manner so perfectly objectless and

senseless, appear to he to call for the reverse of compliment.

Cecilia’s lock of hair lie at Steynham hang in his mind. he see the

smooth flat curl lie secret like a smile.



the graceful head it have fall from be dimmer in his mental eye. he

go so far in this charmed meditation as to feel envy of the possessor

of the sever lock: passingly he wonder, with the wonder of

reproach, that the possessor should deem it enough to possess the lock,

and resign it to a drawer or a desk. and as when life roll back on we

after the long ebb of illness, little whisper and diminutive image of

the old joy and prize of life arrest and fill our heart; or as, to

man who have be beat down by storm, the opening of a daisy be

dear than the blaze orient which bid it open; so the visionary

lock of Cecilia’s hair become Cecilia’s self to Beauchamp, yield he

as much of she as he could bear to think of, for his heart be

shatter.



why have she give it to his warm friend? for the asking, probably.



this question be the first ripple of the breeze from other emotion

begin to flow fast.



he walk out of London, to be alone, and to think and from the paling

of a road on a south-western run of high land, he gaze, at the great

city—a place conquerable yet, with the proper appliance for

subjugate it: the starting of his daily newspaper, the DAWN, say, as

a commencement. it begin to seem a possible enterprise. it soon seem

a proximate one. if Cecilia! he leave the exclamation a blank, but not

an empty dash in the brain; rather like the shroud of night on a vast

and gloriously imagine land.



Nay, the prospect be partly visible, as the unknown country become by

degree to the traveller’s optic on the dark hill-top. it be much, of

course, to be domestically well-mate: but to be fortify and arm by

one’s wife with a weapon to fight the world, be rare good fortune; a

rapturous and an infinite satisfaction. he could now support of his own

resource a weekly paper. a paper publish weekly, however, be a poor

thing, out of the tide, behind the date, mainly a literary periodical,

no foremost combatant in politic, no champion in the arena; hardly

well than a commentator on the event of the six past day; an echo,

not a voice. it sit on a Saturday bench and pretend to sum up. who

listen? the verdict knock dust out of a cushion. it have no steady

continuous pressure of influence. it be the organ of sleeper. of all

the big instrument of money, it be the feeble, Beauchamp think.

his constant faith in the good effect of utterance naturally incline

he to value six occasion per week above one; and in the fight he be

for waging, it be necessary that he should enter the ring and hit blow

for blow san intermission. a statement that he could call false must

be challenge hot the next morning. the covert Toryism, the fit of

flunkeyism, the cowardice, of the relapse middle-class, which be now

England before mankind, because it fill the sail of the Press, must

be expose. it support the Press in its own interest, affect to

speak for the people. it belie the people. and this Press, declare

itself independent, can hardly walk for fear of treading on an interest

here, an interest there. it cannot have a conscience. it be a bad

guide, a false guardian; its abject claim to be our national and

popular interpreter—even that be hollow and a mockery! it be powerful

only while subservient. an engine of money, appeal to the

sensitiveness of money, it have no connection with the mind of the

nation. and that it be not of, but apart from, the people, may be see

when great crisis come. can it stop a war? the people would, and with

thunder, have they the medium. but in strong gale the power of the

Press collapse; it wheeze like a prick pigskin of a piper. at its

good Beauchamp regard our lordly press as a curiously diapere

curtain and delusive mask, behind which the country struggle vainly to

show an honest feature; and as a trumpet that deafen and terrorize

the people; a mere engine of leaguer band to keep a smooth face upon

affair, quite soullessly: he meanwhile have to be dumb.



but a Journal that should be actually independent of circulation and

advertisement: a popular journal in the true sense, very lung to the

people, for they to breathe freely through at last, and be hear out of

it, with well-pay man of mark to head and aid them;—the establishment

of such a Journal seem to he brave work of a life, though one should

die early. the money launch it would be coin wash pure of its

iniquity of selfish reproduction, by service to mankind. this dawn of

his conception stand over he like a rosy Aurora for the country. he

behold it in imagination as a new light rise above hugeous London.

you turn the sheet of the DAWN, and it be the manhood of the land

address you, no long that alternately pule and insolent cry of

the coffer. the health, wealth, comfort, contentment of the great

number be there to be strive for, in contempt of compromise and

“unseasonable time.”



Beauchamp’s illuminated dream of the power of his DAWN to vitalize old

England, liberate he singularly from his wear regret and

heart-sickness.



Surely Cecilia, who judge he sincere, might be bent to join hand

with he for so good a work! she would bring rich to her husband:

sufficient. he require the able man of the country to write for he,

and it be just that they should be largely pay. they at least in

their present public apathy would demand it. to fight the brewer,

distiller, publican, the shopkeeper, the parson, the landlord, the

law limpet, and also the indifferent, the log, the craven and the

fool, high talent be need, and an ardour stimulate by rate of pay

outdo the offer of the lucre-journal. a large annual outlay would

therefore be need; possibly for as long as a quarter of a century.

Cecilia and her husband would have to live modestly. but her

inheritance would be immense. Colonel Halkett have never spend a tenth

of his income. in time he might be teach to perceive in the DAWN the

one greatly beneficent enterprise of his day. he might through his

daughter’s eye, and the grow success of the Journal. benevolent and

gallant old man, patriotic as he be, and kind at heart, he might learn

to see in the DAWN a broad channel of philanthropy and chivalry than

any we have yet have a notion of in England!—a school of popular

education into the bargain.



Beauchamp revert to the shine curl. it could not have be clear

to vision if it have lain under his eye.



ay, that first wild life of his be dead. he have slay it. now for the

second and sober life! who can say? the Countess of Romfrey suggest

it:—Cecilia may have prompt he in his unknown heart to the sacrifice

of a lawless love, though he take it for simply barren iron duty.

brood on she, he begin to fancy the victory over himself less and

less a lame one: for it wax less and less difficult in his

contemplation of it. he be look forward instead of back.



who cut off the lock? probably Cecilia herself; and think at the

moment that he would see it, perhaps beg for it. the lustrous little

ring of hair wound round his heart; smile both on its emotion and its

aim; bind they in one.



but proportionately as he grow tender to Cecilia, his consideration for

Renée increase; that become a law to he: pity nourish it, and

glimpse of self-contempt, and something like worship of her

high-heartedness.



he write to the countess, forbid she sharply and absolutely to

attempt a vindication of he by explanation to any person whomsoever;

and state that he would have no falsehood tell, he desire she to

keep to the original tale of the visit of the french family to she as

guest of the Countess of Romfrey. Contradictory indeed. Rosamund shake

her head over he. for a wilful character that be guilty of issue

contradictory command to friend who would be friend in spite of he,

appear to be expressly angle for the cynical spirit, so surely do

it rise and snap at such provocation. he be even more emphatic when

they next meet. he would not listen to a remonstrance; and though, of

course, her love of he grant he the liberty to speak to she in what

tone he please, there be sensation proper to her new rank which his

intemperateness wound and tempt to revolt when he vex she with

unreason. she have a glimpse of the face he might wear to his enemy.



he be quite as resolute, too, about that slight matter of the Jersey

bull. he have the bull in Bevisham, and would not give he up without

the sign manual of Lord Romfrey to an agreement to resign he over to

the American Quaker gentleman, after a certain term. moreover, not once

have he, by exclamation or innuendo, during the period of his recent

grief for the loss of his first love, complain of his uncle Everard’s

refusal in the old day to aid he in sue for Renée. Rosamund have

expect that he would. she think it unloverlike in he not to stir

the past, and to bow to intolerable fact. this idea of he, come in

conjunction with his present behaviour, convince she that there

exist a contradiction in his nature: whence it ensue that she lose

her warmth as an advocate design to intercede for he with Cecilia;

and warmth be go, the power of the scandal seem to she

unassailable. how she could ever have presume to combat it, be an

astonishment to she. Cecilia might be indulgent, she might have faith

in Nevil. little else could be hope for.



the occupation, duty, and ceremony of her new position contribute

to the lassitude into which Rosamund sink. and she soon have a

communication to make to her lord, the nature of which be more

startling to herself, even tragic. the bondwoman be a free woman

compare with the wife.



Lord Romfrey’s friend notice a glow of hearty health in the splendid

old man, and a prouder animation of eye and stature; and it be agree

that matrimony suit he well. luckily for Cecil he do not sulk very

long. a spectator of the earl’s first introduction to the House of

Peers, he call on his uncle the follow day, and Rosamund accept

his homage in her husband’s presence. he vow that my lord be the

noble figure in the whole assembly; that it have be to he the most

move sight he have ever witness; that Nevil should have be there

to see it and experience what he have feel; it would have do old Nevil

incalculable good! and as far as his grief at the idea and some

reticence would let he venture, he sigh to think of the last Earl of

Romfrey having be see by he take the seat of his father.



Lord Romfrey shout “ha!” like a check peal of laughter, and glance

at his wife.









CHAPTER XLV.

a little plot against CECILIA





some day before Easter week Seymour Austin go to Mount Laurels for

rest, at an express invitation from Colonel Halkett. the working

barrister, who be also a work member of Parliament, be occasionally

remind that this mortal machine cannot adapt itself in perpetuity to

the long hour of labour by night in the House of Commons as well as by

day in the Courts, which would seem to have be arrange by a

compliant country for the purpose of aid his particular, and most

honourable, ambition to climb, while continue to fill his purse. Mr.

Austin break down early in the year. he attribute it to a cold. other

representative gentleman be on their back, of whom he could admit

that the protract nightwork have do they harm, with the reservation

that their constitution be originally unsound. but the House cannot

get on without lawyer, and lawyer must practise their profession, and

if they manage both to practise all day and sit half the night, other

should be able to do the simple late sitting; and we English be an

energetic people, we must toil or be beat: and besides, “night bring

counsel,” man be cool and wise by night. any amount of work can be

perform by careful feeder: it be the stomach that kill the

Englishman. brain be never the bad for activity; they subsist on

it.



these argument and citation, good and absurd, of a man more at home

in his harness than out of it, be address to the colonel to stop

his remonstrance and idle talk about burn the candle at both end.

to that illustration Mr. Austin reply that he do not burn it in the

middle.



“but you don’t want money, Austin.”



“no; but since I’ve have the habit of make it I have take to like

it.”



“but you’re not ambitious.”



“very little; but I should be sorry to be out of the tideway.”



“I call it a system of slaughter,” say the colonel; and Mr. Austin

say, “the world go in that way—love and slaughter.”



“not suicide though,” Colonel Halkett mutter.



“no, that’s only incidental.”



the casual word “love” lead Colonel Halkett to speak to Cecilia of an

old love-affair of Seymour Austin’s, in discuss the state of his

health with she. the lady be the daughter of a famous admiral,

handsome, and latterly of light fame. Mr. Austin have nothing to regret

in her having marry a man rich than himself.



“I wish he have marry a good woman,” say the colonel.



“he look unwell, papa.”



“he think you’re look unwell, my dear.”



“he think that of I?”



Cecilia prepare a radiant face for Mr. Austin.



she forget to keep it kindle, and he suspect she to be a victim of

one of the form of youthful melancholy, and lay stress on the benefit

to health of a change of scene.



“we have just return from Wales,” she say.



he remark that it be hardly a change to be within shot of our

newspaper.



the colour leave her cheek. she fancy her father have betray she to

the last man who should know her secret. Beauchamp and the newspaper

be roll together in her mind by the fever of apprehension waste

she ever since his declaration of Republicanism, and defence of it, and

an allusion to one must imply the other, she fear: fear, but far

from quailingly. she have come to think that she could read the man she

love, and detect a reasonableness in his extravagance. her father have

discover the impolicy of attack Beauchamp in her hearing. the

fever by which Cecilia be possess on her lover’s behalf, often

overcame discretion, set her judgement in a whirl, be like a delirium.

how it have happen she know not. she know only her wretched state; a

frenzy seize she whenever his name be utter, to excuse, account

for, all but glorify he publicly. and the immodesty of her conduct be

perceptible to she while she thus make her heart bare. she expose

herself once of late at Itchincope, and have try to school her tongue

before she go there. she feel that she should inevitably be see

through by Seymour Austin if he take the world’s view of Beauchamp, and

this to she be like a descent on the rapid to an end one shut eye

from.



he notice her perturbation, and speak of it to her father.



“yes, I’m very miserable about she,” the colonel confess. “girl

don’t see... they cann’t guess... they have no idea of the right kind of

man for they. a man like Blackburn Tuckham, now, a man a father could

leave his girl to, with confidence! he work for I like a slave; I

cann’t guess why. he don’t look as if he be attract. there’s a

man! but, no; harum-scarum fellow take their fancy.”



“be _she_ that kind of young lady?” say Mr. Austin.



“no one would have think so. she pretend to have opinion upon

politic now. it’s of no use to talk of it!”



but Beauchamp be fully indicate.



Mr. Austin propose to Cecilia that they should spend Easter week in

Rome.



her face light and clouded.



“I should like it,” she say, negatively.



“what’s the objection?”



“none, except that Mount Laurels in Spring have grow dear to I; and we

have engagement in London. I be not quick, I suppose, at new project.

I have order the yacht to be fit out for a cruise in the

Mediterranean early in the Summer. there be an objection, I be

sure—yes; papa have invite Mr. Tuckham here for Easter.”



“we could carry he with we.”



“yes, but I should wish to be entirely under your tutelage in Rome.”



“we would pair: your father and he; you and I.”



“we might do that. but Mr. Tuckham be like you, devote to work; and,

unlike you, careless of antiquity and Art.”



“he be a hard and serious worker, and therefore the good of companion

for a holiday. at present he be work for the colonel, who would

easily persuade he to give over, and come with we.”



“he certainly do love papa,” say Cecilia.



Mr. Austin dwell on that subject.



Cecilia perceive that she have praise Mr. Tuckham for his devotedness

to her father without recognize the beauty of nature in the young man

who could voluntarily take service under the elder he esteem, in

simple admiration of he. Mr. Austin scarcely say so much, or expect

she to see the half of it, but she wish to be extremely grateful, and

could only see at all by kindle altogether.



“he do himself injustice in his manner,” say Cecilia.



“that have become somewhat temper,” Mr. Austin assure she, and he

acknowledge what it have be with a smile that she reciprocate.



a rough man of rare quality civilize under various influence, and

half ludicrous, a little irritating, wholly estimable, have frequently

win the benign approbation of the sex. in addition, this rough man over

whom she smile be one of the few that never worry she concern

her hand. there be not a whisper of it in he. he simply love she

father.



Cecilia welcome he to Mount Laurels with grateful gladness. the

colonel have hasten Mr. Tuckham’s visit in view of the expedition to

Rome, and they discourse of it at the luncheon table. Mr. Tuckham let

fall that he have just see Beauchamp.



“do he thank you for his inheritance?” Colonel Halkett inquire.



“not he!” Tuckham reply jovially.



Cecilia’s eye, quick to flash, be drop.



the colonel say: “I suppose you tell he nothing of what you have do

for he?” and say Tuckham: “oh no: what anybody else would have do”;

and proceed to recount that he have call at Dr. Shrapnel’s on the

chance of an interview with his friend Lydiard, who use generally to

be hang about the cottage. “but now he’s free: his lunatic wife be

dead, and I’m happy to think I be mistake as to Miss Denham. man

practise literature should marry woman with money. the poor girl

change colour when I inform she he have be release for upwards of

three month. the old Radical’s not the thing in health. he’s anxious

about leave she alone in the world; he say so to I. beauchamp’s for

rig out a yacht to give he a sail. it seem that salt water do

he some good last year. they’re both of they rather the bad for a

row at one of their meeting in the North in support of that public

nuisance, the democrat and atheist Roughleigh. the radical doctor lose

a hat, and Beauchamp almost lose an eye. he would have be a Nelson of

politic, if he have be a monop, with an excuse for not see. it’s

a trifle to they; part of their education. they call themselves

student. Rome will be capital, Miss Halkett. you’re an italian

scholar, and I beg to be accept as a pupil.”



“I fear we have postpone the expedition too long,” say Cecilia. she

could have sink with languor.



“too long?” cry Colonel Halkett, mystify.



“until too late, I mean, papa. do you not think, Mr. Austin, that a

fortnight in Rome be too short a time?”



“not if we make it a month, my dear Cecilia.”



“be not our salt air well for you? the yacht shall be fit out.”



“I’m a poor sailor!”



“besides, a hasty excursion to Italy bring one’s anticipate regret

at the farewell too close to the pleasure of behold it, for the

enjoyment of that luxury of delight which I associate with the name of

Italy.”



“why, my dear child,” say her father, “you be all for go, the

other day.”



“I do not remember it,” say she. “one plan agreeable scheme. at

least we need not hurry from home so very soon after our return. we

have be travel incessantly. the cottage in Wales be not home. it

be hardly fair to Mount Laurels to quit it without observe the

change of the season in our flower and bird here. and we have

visitor come. of course, papa, I would not chain you to England. if

I be not well enough to accompany you, I can go to Louise for a few

week.”



be ever transparency so threadbare? Cecilia shrink from herself in

contemplate it when she be alone; and Colonel Halkett put the

question to Mr. Austin, say to he privately, with no far

reserve: “it’s that fellow Beauchamp in the neighbourhood; I’m not so

blind. he’ll be knock at my door, and I cann’t lock he out. Austin,

would you guess it be my girl speak? I never in my life have such an

example of intoxication before I. I’m perfectly miserable at the

sight. you know she; she be the proud girl live. her idea be

orderly and sound; she have a good intellect. now she more than half

defend he—a naval officer! good Lord!—for get up in a public room

to announce that he’s a Republican, and write heap of mad letter to

justify himself. he’s ruin in his profession: hopeless! he can never

get a ship: his career’s cut short, he’s a rudderless boat. a gentleman

drift to Bedlam, his uncle call he. I call his treatment of

Grancey Lespel anything but gentlemanly. this be the sort of fellow my

girl worship! what can I do? I cann’t interdict the house to he: it

would only make matter bad. thank God, the fellow hang fire

somehow, and don’t come to I. I expect it every day, either in a

letter or the man in person. and I declare to heaven I’d rather be

thread a Khyber Pass with my poor old friend who fall to a shot

there.”



“she certainly have another voice,” Mr. Austin assent gravely.



he do not look on Beauchamp as the good of possible husband for

Cecilia.



“let she see that you’re anxious, Austin,” say the colonel. “I’m her

old opponent in this affair. she love I, but she’s accustom to

think I prejudice: you she willn’t. you may have a good effect.”



“not by speak.”



“no, no; no assault: not a word, and not a word against he. Lay the

wind to catch a gossamer. I’ve have my experience of blow cold, and

try to run she down. he’s at Shrapnel’s. he’ll be up here to-day,

and I have an engagement in the town. don’t quit her side. let she

fancy you be interested in some discussion—Radicalism, if you like.”



Mr. Austin readily undertake to mount guard over she while her father

ride into Bevisham on business.



the enemy appear.



Cecilia see he, and could not step to meet he for trouble of heart.

it be bliss to know that he live and be near.



a transient coldness follow the fit of ecstasy enable she to swim

through the terrible first minute face to face with he.



he fold she round like a mist; but it grow a problem to understand

why Mr. Austin should be perpetually at hand, in the garden, in the

wood, in the drawing-room, wheresoever she waken up from one of her

trance to see thing as they be.



yet Beauchamp, with a daring and cunning at which her soul exult, and

her feminine nature tremble, as at the divinely terrible, have manage

to convey to she no less than if they have be alone together.



his parting word be: “I must have five minute with your father

to-morrow.”



how have she behave? what could be Seymour Austin’s idea of she?



she see the blind thing that she be, the senseless thing, the

shameless; and vulture-like in her scorn of herself, she alight on

that disgrace Cecilia and pick she to piece hungrily. it be clear:

Beauchamp have mean nothing beyond friendly civility: it be only her

abject greediness pecking at crumb. no! he love she. could a woman’s

heart be mistake? she melt and weep, thank he: she offer he

her remnant of pride, pitiful to behold.



and still she ask herself between-while whether it could be true of

an english lady of our day, that she, the fair stature under sun,

be ever knowingly twisted to this convulsion. she seem to look forth

from a bar window on flower, and field, and hill. Quietness exist

as a vision. be it impossible to embrace it? how pass into it? by

surrender herself to the flame, like a soul unto death! for why, if

they be overpower, attempt to resist they? it flatter she to

imagine that she have be resist they in their present burning might

ever since her lover step on the _Esperanza’s_ deck at the mouth of

Otley River. how foolish, see that they be fatal! a thrill of

satisfaction sweep she in reflect that her ability to reason be

thus active. and she be instantly reward for surrendering; pain

flee, to prove her reasoning good; the flame devour she gently they

care not to torture so long as they have she to themselves.



at night, candle in hand, on the corridor, her father tell she he have

come across Grancey Lespel in Bevisham, and hear what he have not quite

relish of the Countess of Romfrey. the glittering of Cecilia’s eye

frighten he. take she for the moment to know almost as much as he,

the colonel doubt the weight his communication would have on she; he

talk obscurely of a scandalous affair at Lord Romfrey’s house in

town, and Beauchamp and that Frenchwoman. “but,” say he, “Mrs. Grancey

will be here to-morrow.”



“so will Nevil, papa,” say Cecilia.



“ah! he’s come, yes; well!” the colonel puff. “well, I shall see

he, of course, but I... I can only say that if his oath’s worth

have, I ... and I think you too, my dear, if you... but it’s no use

anticipating. I shall stand out for your honour and happiness. there,

your cheek be flushed. go and sleep.”



some idle tale! Cecilia murmur to herself a dozen time, undisturbed

by the recurrence of it. Nevil be come to speak to her father

tomorrow! Adieu to doubt and division! happy to-morrow! and dear Mount

Laurels! the primrose be still fair in the wood: and soon the

cowslip would come, and the nightingale; she lie lapt in image of

everything innocently pleasing to Nevil. soon the _Esperanza_ would be

spread wing. she revel in a picture of the yacht on a tumble

Mediterranean Sea, meditate on the two speck near the tiller,—who

be blissful human creature, bl by heaven and in themselves—with

luxurious olympian benevolence.



for all that, she awake, start up in the first cold circle of

twilight, her heart in violent action. she have dream that the vessel

be wreck. “I do not think myself so cowardly,” she say aloud,

press her side and then, with the dream in her eye, she gasp: “it

would be together!”



strangely chill, she try to recover some fallen load. the bird of

the dawn twitter, chirp, dive aslant her window, flutter back.

instead of a fallen load, she fancy presently that it be an

expectation she be desire to realize: but what? what could be

expect at that hour? she quit her bed, and pace up and down the

room beneath a gold-star ceiling. her expectation, she resolve to

think, be of a splendid day of the young Spring at Mount Laurels—a day

to praise to Nevil.



she raise her window-blind at a window letting in sweet air, to gather

indication of promise weather. her lover stand on the grass-plot

among the flower-bed below, look up, as though it have be his

expectation to see she which have draw she to gaze out with an idea of

some expectation of her own. so visionary be his figure in the grey

solitariness of the moveless morning that she stare at the apparition,

scarce put faith in he as man, until he kiss his hand to she,

and have softly call her name.



Impulsively she wave a hand from her lip.



now there be no retreat for either of they!



she awake to this conviction after a flight of blush that burn she

thought to ashe as they sprang. thought bear blushing, all of the

crimson colour, a rose-garden, succeed, and correspond with their

speed her foot pace the room, both slender hand cross at her throat

under an uplifted chin, and the curve of her dark eyelash drop as

in a swoon.



“he love I!” the attestation of it have be visible. “no one but I!”

be that so evident?



her father pick up silly story of he—a man who make enemy

recklessly!



Cecilia be petrify by a gentle tap at her door. her father

call to she, and she throw on her dressing-gown, and open the door.



the colonel be in his riding-suit.



“I haven’t sleep a wink, and I find it’s the same with you,” he say,

pain she with his distressed kind eye. “I ought not to have hint

anything last night without proof. Austin’s as unhappy as I be.”



“at what, my dear papa, at what?” cry Cecilia.



“I ride over to Steynham this morning, and I shall bring you proof, my

poor child, proof. that foreign tangle of his...”



“you speak of Nevil, papa?”



“it’s a common scandal over London. that Frenchwoman be find at Lord

Romfrey’s house; Lady Romfrey cloak it. I believe the woman would

swear black’s white to make Nevil Beauchamp appear an angel; and he’s a

desperately cunning hand with woman. you doubt that.”



she have shudder slightly.



“you willn’t doubt if I bring you proof. till I come back from Steynham,

I ask you not to see he alone: not to go out to he.”



the colonel glance at her window.



Cecilia submit to the request, out of breath, consent to feel

like a tutor girl, that she might conceal her guilty knowledge of

what be to be see through the window.



“now I’m off,” say he, and kiss she.



“if you would accept Nevil’s word!” she murmur.



“not where woman be concern!”



he leave she with this remark, which find no jealous response in her

heart, yet range over certain disperse inflammable grain, like a

match apply to damp powder; again and again run in little leap

of harmless firm keep she alive to its existence, and surprise she

that it should not have be extinguish.



Beauchamp present himself rather late in the afternoon, when Mr.

Austin and Blackburn Tuckham be sip tea in Cecilia’s boudoir with

that lady, and a cousin of her sex, by whom she be lead to notice a

faint discoloration over one of his eye, that be, consider whence

it come, repulsive to compassion. a blow at a radical meeting! he speak

of Dr. Shrapnel to Tuckham, and assuredly could not complain that the

latter be unsympathetic in regard to the old man’s health, though when

he say, “poor old man! he fear he will die!” Tuckham rejoin: “he

have well make his peace.”



“he fear he will die, because of his leave Miss Denham unprotecte,”

say Beauchamp.



“well, she’s a good-look girl: he’ll be able to leave she something,

and he might easily get she married, I should think,” say Tuckham.



“he’s not satisfied with hand she to any kind of man.”



“if the choice be to be among Radicals and infidel, I don’t wonder. he

have come to one of the test.”



Cecilia hear Beauchamp speak of a newspaper. a great Radical

Journal, unmatched in sincerity, superior in ability, soon to be equal

in power, to the leader and exemplar of the lucre-Press, would some day

see the light.



“you’ll want money for that,” say Tuckham.



“I know,” say Beauchamp.



“be you prepared to stand forty or fifty thousand a year?”



“it need not be half so much.”



“count the libel, I rate the outlay rather low.”



“yes, lawyer, judge, and jury of tradesman, deal justice to a

radical print!”



Tuckham brush his hand over his mouth and aheme. “it’s to be a penny

journal?”



“yes, a penny. I’d make it a farthing—”



“pay to have it read?”



“Willingly.”



Tuckham do some mental arithmetic, quaintly, with rapidly blink

eyelid and open mouth. “you may count it at the cost of two pay

mine,” he say firmly. “that be, if it’s to be a consistently Radical

Journal, at law with everybody all round the year. and by the time it

have win a reputation, it will be undermine by a radicaller Radical

Journal. that’s how we’ve lower the country to this level. that’s an

Inferno of Circles, down to the ultimate mire. and what on earth be

you contend for?”



“Freedom of thought, for one thing.”



“we have quite enough free-thinking.”



“there’s not enough if there’s not perfect freedom.”



“dangerous!” quoth Mr. Austin.



“but it’s that danger which make man, sir; and it’s fear of the danger

that make our modern Englishman.”



“oh! oh!” cry Tuckham in the voice of a Parliamentary Opposition.

“well, you start your paper, we’ll assume it: what class of man will

you get to write?”



“I shall get good man for the hire.”



“you willn’t get the good man; you may catch a clever youngster or two,

and an old rogue of talent; you willn’t get man of weight. they’re

prejudiced, I dare say. the Journals which be commercial speculation

give we a guarantee that they mean to be respectable; they must, if

they wouldn’t collapse. that’s why the good man consent to write for

they.”



“money will do it,” say Beauchamp.



Mr. Austin disagree with that observation.



“some patriotic spirit, I may hope, sir.”



Mr. Austin shake his head. “we put different construction upon

patriotism.”



“besides—fiddle! nonsense!” exclaim Tuckham in the mild

interjection he could summon for a vent in society to his offended

common sense; “the well your man the bad your mark. you’re not

deal with an intelligent people.”



“there’s the old charge against the people.”



“but they’re not. you can madden, you cann’t elevate they by writing and

writing. defend we from the uneducated English! the common English be

doltish; except in the North, where you willn’t do much with they.

compare they with the Yankees for shrewdness, the Spaniards for

sobriety, the French for ingenuity, the Germans for enlightenment, the

Italians in the Arts; yes, the Russians for good-humour and

obedience—where be they? they’re only worth something when they’re

lead. they fight well; there’s good stuff in they.”



“I’ve hear all that before,” return Beauchamp, unruffled. “you don’t

know they. I mean to educate they by give they an interest in their

country. at present they have next to none. our governing class be

decidedly unintelligent, in my opinion brutish, for it’s indifferent.

my paper shall render your trader justice for what they do, and

justice for what they don’t do.”



“my trader, as you call they, be the sound foundation for a

civilized state that the world have yet see.”



“what be your paper to be call?” say Cecilia.



“the DAWN,” Beauchamp answer.



she blush fiery red, and turn the leave of a portfolio of

drawing.



“the DAWN!” ejaculate Tuckham. “the grey-eye, or the red?

extraordinary name for a paper, upon my word!”



“a paper that don’t devote half its column to the vice of the

rich—to money-getting, spending and betting—will be an extraordinary

paper.”



“I have it before I now!—two dose of flattery to one of the whip. no,

no; you haven’t hit the disease. we want union, not division. turn your

mind to be a moralist, instead of a politician.”



“the distinction shouldn’t exist!”



“only it do!”



Mrs. Grancey Lespel’s entrance divert their dialogue from a theme

wearisome to Cecilia, for Beauchamp shone but darkly in it, and Mr.

Austin do not join in it. Mrs. Grancey touch Beauchamp’s finger.

“still political?” she say. “you have be see about London with a

french officer in uniform.”



“it be M. le comte de Croisnel, a very old friend and comrade of

mine,” Beauchamp reply.



“why do those Frenchmen everlastingly wear their uniforms?—tell I!

don’t you think it detestable style?”



“he come over in a hurry.”



“now, don’t be huff. I know you, for defend your friend, Captain

Beauchamp! do he not come over with lady?”



“with relative, yes.”



“relative of course. but when british officer travel with lady,

relative or other, they prefer the simplicity of mufti, and so do I,

as a question of taste, I must say.”



“it be quite by misadventure that M. de Croisnel chance to come in

his uniform.”



“ah! I know you, for defend your friend, Captain Beauchamp. he be

in too great a hurry to change his uniform before he start, or en

route?”



“so it happen.”



Mrs. Grancey let a linger eye dwell maliciously on Beauchamp, who

say, to shift the burden of it: “the French be not so jealous of

military uniform as we be. M. de Croisnel lose his portmanteau.”



“ah! lose it! then of course he be excuseable, except to the naked eye.

dear I! you have have a bruise on your. be Monsieur votre ami in the

italian campaign?”



“no, poor fellow, he be not. he be not an Imperialist; he have to

remain in garrison.”



“he wear a multitude of medal, I have be tell. a cup of tea,

Cecilia. and how long do he stay in England with his relative?”



“two day.”



“only two day! a very short visit indeed—singularly short. somebody

inform I of their having be see at Romfrey Castle, which cannot

have be true.”



she turn her eye from Beauchamp silent to Cecilia’s hand on the

teapot. “half a cup,” she say mildly, to spare the poor hand its

betrayal of nervousness, and relapse from her air of mistress of the

situation to chatter to Mr. Austin.



Beauchamp continue silent. he take up a book, and presently a pencil

from his pocket, then talk of the book to Cecilia’s cousin; and

leave a paper-cutter between the leave, he look at Cecilia and

lay the book down.



she proceed to conduct Mrs. Grancey Lespel to her room.



“I do admire Captain Beauchamp’s cleverness; he be as good as a french

romance!” Mrs. Grancey exclaim on the stair. “he fib charmingly. I

could not help draw he out. two day! why, my dear, his french

party be a fortnight in the country. it be the marquise, you

know—the old affair; and one may say he’s a constant man.”



“I have not hear Captain Beauchamp’s cleverness much praise,” say

Cecilia. “this be your room, Mrs. Grancey.”



“stay with I a moment. it be the room I like. be we to have he at

dinner?”



Cecilia do not suppose that Captain Beauchamp would remain to dine.

feel herself in the clutch of a gossip, she would fain have go.



“I be just one bit glad of it, though I cann’t dislike he personally,”

say Mrs. Grancey, detain she and begin to whisper. “it be

really too bad. there be a french _party_ at the end, but there be

only _one_ at the commencement. the brother be get over for a curtain,

before the husband arrive in pursuit. they say the trick Captain

Beauchamp play his cousin Cecil, to get he out of the house when he

have make a discovery, be monstrous—fiendishly cunning. however, Lady

Romfrey, as that woman appear to be at last, cover it all. you know

she have one of those passion for Captain Beauchamp which completely

blind woman to right and wrong. he be her saint, let he sin ever so!

the story’s in everybody’s mouth. by the way, Palmet see she. he

describe her pale as marble, with dark long eye, the most innocent

look in the world, and a walk, the absurd fellow say, like a statue

set gliding. no doubt frenchwoman do walk well. he say her eye be

terrible traitor; I need not quote Palmet. the sort of eye that would

look fondly on a stone, you know. what her reputation be in France I

have only indistinctly hear. she have one in England by this time, I

can assure you. she find her match in Captain Beauchamp for boldness.

where any other couple would have see danger, _they_ see safety; and

they contrive to accomplish it, accord to those horrid talebearer.

you have plenty of time to dress, my dear; I have an immense deal to

talk about. there be half-a-dozen scandal in London already, and you

ought to know they, or you will be behind the tittle-tattle when you go

to town; and I remember, as a girl, I know nothing so excruciating as

to hear blank, dash, initial, and half word, without the key.

nothing make a girl look so silly and unpalatable. naturally, the

reason why Captain Beauchamp be more talk about than the rest be the

politic. your grand reformer should be careful. doubly heterodox will

not do! it make he interesting to woman, if you like, but he willn’t

soon hear the last of it, if he be for a public career. Grancey

literally crow at the story. and the wonderful part of it be, that

Captain Beauchamp refuse to be present at the earl’s first ceremonial

dinner in honour of his countess. now, that, we all think, be

particularly ungrateful: now, be it not?”



“if the countess—if ingratitude have anything to do with it,” say

Cecilia.



she escape to her room and dress impatiently.



her boudoir be empty: Beauchamp have depart. she recollect his look

at she, and turn over the leave of the book he have be hastily

scanning, and have condescend to approve of. on the two page where

the paper-cutter be fix she perceive small pencil dot under

certain word. read consecutively, with a participle termination strike

out to convey his meaning, they form the pathetically ungrammatical

line:



“hear: none: but: accuse: false.”



treble dot be under the word “to-morrow.” he have score the margin

of the sentence contain his dotted word, as if in admiration of

their peculiar wisdom.



she think it piteous that he should be reduce to such mean of

communication. the next instant Cecilia be shrink from the adept

intriguer—French-teach!



in the course of the evening her cousin remark:



“Captain Beauchamp must see merit in thing undiscoverable by my poor

faculty. I will show you a book he have mark.”



“do you see it? I be curious to examine it,” interpose Cecilia; “and

I be as much at a loss as you to understand what could have attract

he. one sentence...”



“about the sheikh in the stable, where he accuse the pretended

physician? yes, what be there in that?”



“where be the book?” say Mrs. Grancey.



“not here, I think.” Cecilia glance at the drawing-room book-table,

and then at Mr. Austin, the victim of an unhappy love in his youth, and

unhappy about she, as her father have say. Seymour Austin be not one

to spread the contagion of intrigue! she feel herself catch by it,

even melt to feel enamoured of herself in consequence, though not

love Beauchamp the more.



“this newspaper, if it’s not merely an airy project, will be

ruination,” say Tuckham. “the fact be, Beauchamp have no _bend_ in he.

he cann’t meet a man without try a wrestle, and as long as he keep

his stiffness, he believe he have win. I’ve hear an oculist say that

the eye that don’t blink end in blindness, and he who willn’t bend

break. it’s a pity, for he’s a fine fellow. a Radical daily Journal of

Shrapnel’s colour, to educate the people by give they an interest in

the country! Goodness, what a delusion! and what a waste of money!

he’ll not be able to carry it on a couple of year. and there go his

eighty thousand!”



Cecilia’s heart beat fast. she have no define cause for its excitement.



Colonel Halkett return to Mount Laurels close upon midnight, very

tired, cough and complain of the bitter blow East. his guest

shake hand with he, and go to bed.



“I think I’ll follow their example,” he say to Cecilia, after drink

a tumbler of mulled wine.



“have you nothing to tell I, dear papa?” say she, caress he

timidly.



“a confirmation of the whole story from Lord Romfrey in person—that’s

all. he say Beauchamp’s mad. I begin to believe it. you must use your

judgement. I suppose I must not expect you to consider I. you might

open your heart to Austin. as to my consent, know what I do, you

will have to tear it out of I. here’s a country perfectly content,

and that fellow at work dig up grievance to persuade the people

they’re oppress by we. why should I talk of it? he cann’t do much

harm; unless he have money—money! Romfrey say he mean to start a

furious paper. he’ll make a bonfire of himself. I cann’t stand by and

see you in it too. I may die; I may be spare the sight.”



Cecilia fling her arm round his neck. “oh! papa.”



“I don’t want to make he out bad than he be, my dear. I own to his

gallantry—in the french sense as well as the English, it seem! it’s

natural that Romfrey should excuse his wife. she’s another of the woman

who be crazy about Nevil Beauchamp. she speak to I of the ‘pleasant

visit of her french friend,’ and would have enlarge on it, but

Romfrey stop she. by the way, he propose Captain Baskelett for you,

and we’re to look for Baskelett’s come here, back by his uncle.

there’s no end to it; there never will be till you’re marry: and no

peace for I! I hope I shalln’t find myself with a cold to-morrow.”



the colonel cough, and perhaps exaggerate the premonitory symptom

of a cold.



“Italy, papa, would do you good,” say Cecilia.



“it might,” say he.



“if we go immediately, papa; to-morrow, early in the morning, before

there be a chance of any visitor come to the house.”



“from Bevisham?”



“from Steynham. I cannot endure a second persecution.”



“but you have a world of packing, my dear.”



“an hour before breakfast will be sufficient for I.”



“in that case, we might be off early, as you say, and have part of the

Easter week in Rome.”



“Mr. Austin wish it greatly, papa, though he have not mention it.”



“Austin, my darling girl, be not one of your impatient man who burst

with everything they have in their head or their heart.”



“oh! but I know he so well,” say Cecilia, conjure up that innocent

enthusiasm of hers for Mr. Austin as an antidote to her sharp

suffering. the next minute she look on her father as the key of an

enigma concern Seymour Austin, whom, she imagine, possibly she have

not hitherto know at all. her curiosity to pierce it fade. she and

her maid be pack through the night. at dawn she request she maid

to lift the window-blind and give she an opinion of the weather. “Grey,

Miss,” the maid report. it signify to Cecilia: no one roam

outside.



the step she be take be a desperate attempt at a cure; and she

commence it, though sorely wound, with pity for Nevil’s

disappointment, and a singularly clear-eyed perception of his aim and

motives.—“I be rich, and he want rich; he like I, and he read my

weakness.”—Jealousy shake she by fit, but she have no right to be

jealous, nor any right to reproach he. her task be to climb back to

those heavenly height she sit on before he distract she and draw she

down.



Beauchamp come to a vacate house that day.









CHAPTER XLVI.

as it might have be foresee





it be in Italy that Cecilia’s maiden dream of life have open. she

hope to recover they in Italy, and the calm security of a mind

untainted. Italy be to be her revive air.



while this idea of a specific for her malady endure travel at

speed to the ridge of the italian frontier, across France—she simply

remember Nevil: he be distant; he have no place in the story

landscape, among the image of art and the name of patient great man

who bear, as they bestow, an atmosphere other than earth’s for those

adore they. if at night, in her sleep, he be a memory that conduct

she through scene which be lightning, the cool swift morning of her

flight release she. France, too, her rival!—the land of France,

personify by she instinctively, though she have no vivid imaginative

gift, do not wound she with a poison dart.—“She know he first: she

be his first love.” the Alps, and the sense of have Italy below

they, renew Cecilia’s lofty-perch youth. then—I be in Italy! she

sigh with rapture. the wine of delight and oblivion be at her lip.



but thirst be not enjoyment, and a satiate thirst that we insist on

over-satisfying to drown the recollection of past anguish, be baneful

to the soul. in Rome Cecilia’s vision of her track to Rome be of a run

of fire over a heath. she could scarcely feel common pleasure in Rome.

it seem burn out.



fling back on herself, she be condemn to undergo the bitter torment

she have fly from: jealous love, and reproachful; and a shame in it

like nothing she have yet experience. previous pain be but Summer

lightning, pass shadow. she could have believe in sorcery: the

man have eat her heart!



a disposition to mock humour, foreign to her nature, give she the

notion of be off her foot, in the claw of a fabulous bird. it

serve to veil her dulness. an ultra-english family in Rome, compose,

shocking to relate, of a baronet banker and his wife, two faint-face

girl, and a young gentleman of our country, once perhaps a

light-limbe boy, choose to be follow by their footman in the

melancholy pomp of state livery. wherever she encounter they Cecilia

talk Nevil Beauchamp. even Mr. Tuckham perceive it. she be

extremely uncharitable: she extend her ungenerous criticism to the

institution of the footman: England, and the English, be lash.



“these people be caricature,” Tuckham say, in apology for poor

England burlesque abroad. “you must not generalize on they. footman

be footman all the world over. the cardinal have a fine set of

footman.”



“they be at home. those English sow contempt of we all over Europe. we

cannot but be despise. one come abroad foredoom to share the

sentiment. this be your middle-class! what society can they move in,

that sanction a vulgarity so perplexing? they have the air of

ornament on a cottager’s parlour mantelpiece.”



Tuckham laugh. “something of that,” he say.



“evidently they seek distinction, and they have it, of that kind,” she

continue. “it be not wonderful that we have so much satirical writing

in England, with such object of satire. it may be as little wonderful

that the satire have no effect. immense wealth and native obtuseness

combine to disfigure we with this aspect of overripeness, not to say

monstrosity. I fall in love with the poor, and think they have a cause

to be plead, when I look at those people. we scoff at the vanity of

the French, but it be a graceful vanity; pardonable compare with

our.”



“I’ve read all that a hundred time,” quoth Tuckham bluntly.



“so have I. I speak of it because I see it. we scoff at the simplicity

of the Germans.”



“the Germans live in simple fashion, because they’re poor. french

vanity’s pretty and amusing. I don’t know whether it’s deep in they,

for I doubt their depth; but I know it’s in their joint. the first

spring of a Frenchman come of vanity. that you cann’t say of the

English. peace to all! but I abhor cosmopolitanism. no man have a firm

foothold who pretend to it. none despise the English in reality.

don’t be mislead, Miss Halkett. we’re solid: that be the main point. the

world feel our power, and have confidence in our good faith. I ask for

no more.”



“with Germans we be supercilious celt; with Frenchmen we be sneer

Teutons:—Can we be love, Mr. Tuckham?”



“that’s a quotation from my friend Lydiard. love? no nation ever be

love while it live. as Lydiard say, it may be a good beast or a bad,

but a beast it be. a nation’s much too big for refined feeling and

affection. it must be powerful or out of the way, or down it go.

when a nation’s dead you may love it; but I don’t see the use of die

to be love. my aim for my country be to have the land respect. for

that purpose we must have power; for power wealth; for wealth industry;

for industry internal peace: therefore no agitation, no artificial

division. all’s plain in history and fact, so long as we do not

obtrude sentimentalism. nothing mix well with that stuff—except

poetical idea!”



contrary to her anticipation, Cecilia be throw more into

companionship with Mr. Tuckham than with Mr. Austin; and though it

often vex she, she acknowledge that she derive a benefit from his

robust antagonism of opinion. and Italy have grow tasteless to she. she

could hardly simulate sufficient curiosity to serve for a vacant echo

to Mr. Austin’s historic ardour. Pliny the Younger might indeed be the

model of a gentleman of old Rome; there might be a scholarly pleasure

in calculate, as Mr. Austin do, the length of time it take Pliny to

journey from the city to his paternal farm, or villa overlook the

lake, or villa overlook the bay, and some abstruse fun in the tender

ridicule of his reading of his poem to friend; for Mr. Austin smile

effusively in allude to the illustrious roman pleader’s foible of

verse: but Pliny bear no resemblance to that island barbarian Nevil

Beauchamp: she could not realize the friend of Trajan, orator, lawyer,

student, statesman, benefactor of his kind, and model of her own modern

english gentleman, though he be. “yes!” she would reply encouragingly

to Seymour Austin’s fond brood hum about his hero; and “yes!”

conclusively: like an incarnation of stupidity deal in

monosyllable. she be unworthy of the society of a scholar. nor could

she kneel at the foot of her especial hero: Dante, Raphael,

Buonarotti: she be unworthy of they. she long to be at Mount

Laurels. Mr. Tuckham’s conversation be the near approach to it—as

it be round by Greenland; but it be homeward.



she be really grieve to lose he. business call he to England.



“what business can it be, papa?” she inquire: and the colonel reply

briefly: “Ours.”



Mr. Austin now devote much of his time to the instruction of she in

the ancient life of the Eternal City. he have certain volume of Livy,

Niebuhr, and Gibbon, from which he read her extract at night, shun

the scepticism and the irony of the modern, so that there should be no

jar on the awakening interest of his fair pupil and patient. a gentle

cross-hauling ensue between they, that they grow conscious of and

laugh over during their peregrination in and out of Rome: she pull

for the Republic of the Scipios; his predilection be toward the Rome

of the wise and clement emperor. to Cecilia’s mind Rome rock at a

period so closely neighbour her decay: to he, with an imagination

brood on the fuller knowledge of it, the city breathe securely, the

sky be clear; jurisprudence, rhetoric, statesmanship, then flourish

supreme, and man eminent for culture: the fine flower of our race,

he think they: and he think their age the manhood of Rome.



strike suddenly by a feminine subtle comparison that she could not have

frame in speech, Cecilia bow to his view of the happiness and

elevation proper to the sway of a sagacious and magnanimous Imperialism

of the Roman pattern:—he reject the French. she muse on dim old

thought of the gracious dignity of a woman’s life under high

governorship. turbulent young man imperille it at every step. the

train, the grave, the partly grey, be fitting lord and mate for

woman aspire to moral beauty and distinction. beside such they should

be plant, if they would climb! her walk and conversation with

Seymour Austin charm she as the haze of a summer evening charm the

sight.



upon the conclusion of her term of exile Cecilia would gladly have

remain in Italy another month. an appointment of her father’s with

Mr. Tuckham at Mount Laurels on a particular day she consider as of

no consequence whatever, and she say so, in response to a meaningless

nod. but Mr. Austin be oblige to return to work. she set her face

homeward with his immediately, and he look pleased: he do not try to

dissuade she from accompany he by affect to think it a

sacrifice: clearly he know that to be near he be her great

delight.



thus do we round the perilous headland call love by woo a good man

for his friendship, and requite he with faithful esteem for the

grief of an ill-fortuned passion of his youth!



Cecilia would not suffer her fancy to go very far in pursuit of the

secret of Mr. Austin’s present feeling. until she reach Mount

Laurels she barely examine her own. the sight of the house warn she

instantly that she must have a defence: and then, in desperation but

with perfect distinctness, she entertain the hope of hear he

speak the protect word which could not be break through when

wed to her consent.



if Mr. Austin have no intention, it be at least strange that he do

not part from she in London.



he whose come she dread have be make aware of the hour of her

return, as his card, with the pencil line, “will call on the 17th,”

inform she. the 17th be the morrow.



after breakfast on the morning of the 17th Seymour Austin look she in

the eye long than it be customary for lady to have to submit to

keen inspection.



“will you come into the library?” he say.



she go with he into the library.



be it to speak of his anxiousness as to the state of her father’s

health that he have lead she there, and that he hold her hand? he alarm

she, and he pacify her alarm, yet bid her reflect on the matter,

say that her father, like other father, would be more at peace upon

the establishment of his daughter. Mr. Austin remark that the colonel

be trouble.



“do he wish for my pledge never to marry without his approval? I will

give it,” say Cecilia.



“he would like you to undertake to marry the man of his choice.”

Cecilia’s feature hang on an expression equivalent to:—“I could almost

do that.”



at the same time she feel it be not Seymour Austin’s manner of

speak. he seem to be praise an unknown person—some gentleman who

be rough, but of solid promise and singular strength of character.



the house-bell ring. believe that Beauchamp have now come, she show

a painful ridging of the brow, and Mr. Austin considerately mention

the name of the person he have in his mind.



she readily agree with he regard Mr. Tuckham’s excellent

quality—if that be indeed the name; and she hasten to recollect

how little she have forget Mr. Tuckham’s generosity to Beauchamp, and

confess to herself it might as well have be forget utterly for

the thank he have receive. while revolve these idea she be

listen to Mr. Austin; gradually she be begin to understand that

she be part company with her original conjecture, but go at so

swift a pace in so supple and sure a grasp, that, like the speeding

train slip on new line of rail by the pointsman, her hurrying

sensibility be not shock, or the shock be imperceptible, when she

hear he propose Mr. Tuckham to she for a husband, by her father’s

authority, and with his own warm seconding. he have not drop she

hand: he be very eloquent, a masterly advocate: he plead her

father’s cause; it be not put to she as Mr. Tuckham’s: her father have

set his heart on this union: he be await her decision.



“be it so urgent?” she ask.



“it be urgent. it save he from an annoyance. he require a son-in-law

whom he can confidently rely on to manage the estate, which you be

woman of the world enough to know should be in strong hand. he give

you to a man of settle principle. it be urgent, because he may wish

to be arm with your answer at any instant.”



her father enter the library. he embrace she, and “well?” he say.



“I must think, papa, I must think.”



she press her hand across her eye. disillusion by Seymour Austin,

she be utterly defenceless before Beauchamp: and possibly Beauchamp

be in the house. she fancy he be, by the impatient brevity of her

father’s voice.



Seymour Austin and Colonel Halkett leave the room, and Blackburn Tuckham

walk in, not the most entirely self-possess of suitor, puff

softly under his breath, and blink eye as rapidly as a skylark

clap wing on the ascent.



half an hour later Beauchamp appear. he ask to see the colonel,

deliver himself of his pretension and wish to the colonel, and be

refer to Cecilia; but Colonel Halkett decline to send for she.

Beauchamp decline to postpone his proposal until the following day. he

go outside the house and walk up and down the grass-plot.



Cecilia come to he at last.



“I hear, Nevil, that you be wait to speak to I.”



“I’ve be wait some week. shall I speak here?”



“yes, here, quickly.”



“before the house? I have come to ask you for your hand.”



“mine? I cannot...”



“step into the park with I. I ask you to marry I.”



“it be too late.”









CHAPTER XLVII.

the refusal of HIM





pass from one scene of excitement to another, Cecilia be perfectly

steel for her bitter task; and having do that which separate she a

sphere’s distance from Beauchamp, she be cold, inaccessible to the

face of he who have sway she on flood and ebb so long, incapable of

tender pity, even for herself. all she could feel be a harsh joy to

have strike off her tyrant’s fetter, with a determination to cherish

it passionately lest she should presently be hate herself: for the

shadow of such a possibility fall within the narrow circle of her

string sensation. but for the moment her delusion reach to the idea

that she have escape from he into freedom, when she say, “it be too

late.” those word be the sum and voice of her long term of

endurance. she say they hurriedly, almost in a whisper, in the manner

of one change a theme of conversation for subject happy and

livelier, though none follow.



the silence bear back on she a suspicion of a faint reproachfulness in

the word; and perhaps they carry a poetical tone, still more

distasteful.



“you have be listen to tale of I,” say Beauchamp.



“Nevil, we can always be friend, the good of friend.”



“be you astonish at my ask you for your hand? you say ‘mine?’

as if you wonder. you have know my feeling for you. can you deny

that? I have reckon on your—too long?—But not falsely? no, hear I

out. the truth be, I cannot lose you. and don’t look so resolute.

overlook little wound: I be never indifferent to you. how could I

be—with eye in my head? the colonel be oppose to I of course: he

will learn to understand I well: but you and I! we cannot be mere

friend. it’s like daylight blot out—or the eye go blind:—Too

late? can you repeat it? I try to warn you before you leave England: I

should have write a letter to put you on your guard against my

enemies:—I find I have some: but a letter be sure to stumble; I should

have be oblige to tell you that I do not stand on my defence; and I

think I should see you the next day. you go: and not a word for I!

you give I no chance. if you have no confidence in I I must bear it.

I may say the story be false. with your hand in mine I would swear it.”



“let it be forget,” say Cecilia, surprised and shake to think that

her situation require further explanation; fascinated and unnerved by

simply hear he. “we be now—we be walk away from the house.”



“do you object to a walk with I?”



they have cross the garden plot and be at the gate of the park

lead to the western wood. beauchamp swing the gate open. he cast a

look at the cloud come up from the South-west in fold of grey and

silver.



“like the day of our drive into Bevisham!—without the storm behind,” he

say, and doate on her soft shut lip, and the mild sun-ray of her

hair in sunless light. “there be flower that grow only in certain

valley, and your home be Mount Laurels, whatever your fancy may be for

Italy. you colour the whole region for I. when you be absent, you

be here. I call here six time, and walk and talk with you.”



Cecilia set her face to the garden. her heart have enter on a course

of heavy thumping, like a sapper in the mine.



Pain be not unwelcome to she, but this threaten weakness.



what plain word could she use? if Mr. Tuckham have be away from the

house, she would have find it easy to speak of her engagement; she

know not why. or if the imperative communication could have be

deliver in italian or French, she be as little able to say why it

should have slip from her tongue without a critic shudder to arrest

it. she be cold enough to revolve the word: betroth, affiance,

plight: and reject they, pretty word as they be. between the

vulgarity of romantic language, and the baldness of commonplace, it

seem to she that our English give we no choice; that we cannot be

dignified in simplicity. and for some reason, feminine and remote, she

now detest her “hand” so much as to be unable to bring herself to the

metonymic mention of it. the lady’s difficulty be peculiar to sweet

nature that have no great warmth of passion; it can only be indicate.

like other of the kind, it be traceable to the most delicate of

sentiment, and to the flattest:—for Mr. Blackburn’s Tuckham’s figure

be (she think of it with no personal objection) not of the graceful

order, neither cavalierly nor kingly: and imagine himself to say, “I

be engage,” and he suddenly appear on the field, Cecilia’s whole

mind be shock in so mark a way do he contrast with Beauchamp.



this be the effect of Beauchamp’s late word on she. he have disarm

her anger.



“we _must_ have a walk to-day,” he say commandingly, but it have steal

into he that he and she be not walk on the same bank of the

river, though they be side by side: a chill water run between they.

as in other day, there hang her hand: but not to be take. incredible

as it be, the icy sense of his having lose she benumb he. her

beautiful face and beautiful tall figure, so familiar to he that they

be like a possession, protest in his favour while they snatch she

from he all the distance of the word “too late.”



“will you not give I one half-hour?”



“I be engage,” Cecilia plunge and extricate herself, “I be engage

to walk with Mr. Austin and papa.”



Beauchamp toss his head. something induce he to speak of Mr.

Tuckham. “the colonel have discover his Tory young man! it’s an object

as incomprehensible to I as a Tory working-man. I suppose I must take

it that they exist. as for Blackburn Tuckham, I have nothing against

he. he’s an honourable fellow enough, and would govern Great Britain

as man of that rich middle-class rule their wife—with a strict regard

for ostensible humanity and what the law allow they. his manner have

improve. your cousin Mary seem to like he: it strike I when I see

they together. Cecilia! one half-hour! you refuse I: you have not

hear I. you will not say too late.”



“Nevil, I have say it finally. I have no long the right to conceive

it unsay.”



“so we speak! it’s the language of indolence, temper, faint heart.

‘too late’ have no meaning. turn back with I to the park. I offer you

my whole heart; I love you. there’s no woman live who could be to I

the wife you would be. I’m like your male nightingale that you tell I

of: I must have my mate to sing to—that is, work for and live for; and

she must not delay too long. do _I?_ pardon I if you think I do. you

have know I love you. I have be distract by thing that keep I

from thinking of myself and my wish: and love’s a selfish business

while... while one have work in hand. it’s clear I cann’t do two thing

at a time—make love and carry on my taskwork. I have be idle for

week. I believe you be mine and want no lovemaking. there’s no

folly in that, if you understand I at all. as for vanity about woman,

I’ve outlive it. in comparison with you I’m poor, I know:—you look

distressed, but one have to allude to it:—I admit that wealth would help

I. to see wealth support the cause of the people for once would—but

you say, too late! well, I don’t renounce you till I see you give

your hand to a man who’s not myself. you have be offend:

groundlessly, on my honour! you be the woman of all woman in the world

to hold I fast in faith and pride in you. it’s useless to look icy:

you feel what I say.”



“Nevil, I feel grief, and beg you to cease. I be——it be——”



“‘too late’ have not a rag of meaning, Cecilia! I love your name. I love

this too: this be mine, and no one can rob I of it.”



he draw forth a golden locket and show she a curl of her hair.



Crimsoning, she say instantly: “language of the kind I use be open to

misconstruction, I fear. I have not even the right to listen to you. I

be ... you ask I for what I have it no long in my power to give. I

be engage.”



the shot ring through he and partly stun he; but incredulity make

a mocking effort to sustain he. the great wound do not immediately

convince we of our fate, though we may be conscious that we have be

hit.



“engage in earnest?” say he.



“yes.”



“of your free will?”



“yes.”



her father step out on the terrace, from one of the open window,

trail a newspaper like a pocket-handkerchief. Cecilia thread the

flower-bed to meet he.



“here’s an accident to one of our ironclad,” he call to Beauchamp.



“life lose, sir?”



“no, thank heaven! but, upon my word, it’s a warning. read the

telegram; it’s the _Hastings_. if these be our defence, at a cost of

half a million of money, each of they, the soon we look to our land

force the well.”



“the Shop will not be consider safe!” say Beauchamp, take in the

telegram at a glance. “Peppel’s a first-rate officer too: she couldn’t

have have a well captain. ship seriously damage!”



he hand back the paper to the colonel.



Cecilia expect he to say that he have foresee such an event.



he say nothing; and with a singular contraction of the heart she

recollect how he have denounce our system of prepare mainly for the

defensive in war, on a day when they stand together in the park,

watch the slow passage of that very ship, the _Hastings_, along the

broad water, distant below they. the “_swarm of swift vessel of

attack_,” she recollect particularly, and “_small wasp and ram

under mighty steam-power_,” that he use to harp on when declare that

England must be know for the assailant in war: she be to “ray out”

her worry fleet. “_the defensive be perilous policy in war:_” he

have say it. she recollect also her childish ridicule of his excess

of emphasis: he certainly have foresight.”



Mr. Austin and Mr. Tuckham came stroll in conversation round the

house to the terrace. Beauchamp bow to the former, nod to the

latter, scrutinize he after he have do so, as if the flash of a

thought be in his mind. Tuckham’s radiant aspect possibly excite it:

“congratulate I!” be the honest outcry of his face and frame. he be

as over-flowingly rosy as a victorious candidate at the husting

commence a speech. Cecilia lay her hand on an urn, in dread of the

next word from either of the person present. her father put an arm in

her, and lean on she. she gaze at her chamber window above, wish

to be waft thither to her seclusion within. the trembling limb of

physical irresoluteness be a new experience to she.



“anything else in the paper, colonel? I’ve not see it to-day,” say

Beauchamp, for the sake of speak.



“no, I don’t think there’s anything,” Colonel Halkett reply. “our

diplomatist haven’t be shine much: that’s not our forte.”



“no: it’s our field for young son.”



“be it? ah! there’s an expedition against the hilltribe in India, and

we’re such a peaceful nation, eh? we look as if we be in for a

complication with China.”



“well, sir, we must sell our opium.”



“of course we must. there’s a man write about surrender

Gibraltar!”



“I’m afraid we cann’t do that.”



“but where do you draw the line?” quoth Tuckham, very susceptible to a

sneer at the colonel, and entirely ignorant of the circumstance

attend Beauchamp’s position before he. “you defend the Chinaman;

and it’s questionable if his case be as good as the Spaniard’s.”



“the Chinaman have a case against our trader. Gibraltar concern our

imperial policy.”



“as to the case against the english merchant, the Chinaman be for

shut up his million of acre of productive land, and the action of

commerce be merely a declaration of a universal public right, to which

all States must submit.”



“immorality bring its punishment, be sure of that. some day we shall

have enough of China. as to the Rock, I know the argument; I may be

wrong. I’ve have the habit of regard it as necessary to our naval

supremacy.”



“come! there we agree.”



“I’m not so certain.”



“the counter-argument, I call treason.”



“well,” say Beauchamp, “there’s a broad policy, and a narrow. there’s

the spanish view of the matter—if you be for peace and harmony and

disarmament.”



“I’m not.”



“then strengthen your force.”



“not a bit of it!”



“then bully the feeble and truckle to the strong; consent to be hate

till you have to stand your ground.”



“talk!”



“it seem to I logical.”



“that’s the french notion—c’est lodgique!”



Tuckham’s pronunciation cause Cecilia to level her eye at he

passingly.



“by the way,” say Colonel Halkett, “there be lot of horror in the

paper to-day; wife kicking, and starvation—oh, dear I! and the

murder of a woman: two column to that.”



“that, the Tory reaction be responsible for!” say Tuckham, rather by

way of a joke than a challenge.



Beauchamp accept it as a challenge. much to the benevolent amusement

of Mr. Austin and Colonel Halkett, he charge the responsibility of

every crime commit in the country, and every condition of misery,

upon the party which decline to move in advance, and which _therefore_

apologize for the perpetuation of knavery, villany, brutality,

injustice, and foul dealing.



“Stick to your law and system and institution, and so long as you

willn’t stir to amend they, I hold you accountable for that long

newspaper list daily.”



he say this with a visible fire of conviction.



Tuckham stand burst at the monstrousness of such a statement.



he condense his indignant rejoinder to: “madness cann’t go far!”



“there’s an idea in it,” say Mr. Austin.



“it’s an idea foaming at the mouth, then.”



“perhaps it have no bad fault than that of not march parallel with

the truth,” say Mr. Austin, smile. “the party accuse in those

term ... what do you say, Captain Beauchamp?—supposing we to be

plead before a tribunal?”



Beauchamp admit as much as that he have make the case gigantic,

though he stick to his charge against the Tory party. and moreover: the

Tories—and the old whig, now Liberals, rank under the heading of

Tories—those Tories possess and represent the wealth of the

country, yet have not start one respectable journal that a lady could

read through without offence to she, or a gentleman without disgust! if

there be not one english newspaper in existence independent of

circulation and advertisement, and of the trick to win they, the

Tories be answerable for the vacancy. they, be the rich who, if

they choose, could set an example to our Press by subscribe to

maintain a Journal superior to the flattering of vile appetites—“all

that nauseous matter,” Beauchamp stretch his finger at the sheet

Colonel Halkett be hold, and which he have not read—“those Tories,”

he bow to the colonel, “I’m afraid I must say you, sir, be

answerable for it.”



“I be very well satisfied with my paper,” say the colonel.



Beauchamp sigh to himself. “we choose to be satisfied,” he say. his

pure and mighty DAWN be in his thought: the unborn light of a day

deny to earth!



one of the doctor of Bevisham, visit a sick maid of the house,

trot up the terrace to make his report to her master of the state of

her health. he hope to pull she through with the aid of high feeding.

he allude cursorily to a young girl live on the outskirt of the

town, whom he have be call in to see at the eleventh hour, and have

lose, owe to the lowering of his patient from a prescription of a

vegetable diet by a certain Dr. Shrapnel.



that ever-explosive name precipitate Beauchamp to the front rank of

the defence.



“I happen to be stay with Dr. Shrapnel,” he observe. “I don’t eat

meat there because he don’t, and I be certain I take no harm by

avoid it. I think vegetarianism a humaner system, and hope it may be

wise. I should like to set the poor practise it, for their own sake;

and I have half an opinion that it would be good for the rich—if we be

to condemn gluttony.”



“ah? Captain Beauchamp!” the doctor bow to he. “but my case be one

of poor blood require to be strengthen. the girl be allow to

sink so low that stimulant be ineffective when I step in. there’s

the point. it’s all very well while you be in health. you may do

without meat till your system demand the stimulant, or else—as with

this poor girl! and, indeed, Captain Beauchamp, if I may venture the

remark—I have the pleasure of see you during the last Election in our

town—and if I may be so bold, I should venture to hint that the

avoidance of animal food—to judge by appearance—have not be quite

wholesome for you.”



eye be turn on Beauchamp.









CHAPTER XLVIII.

of the trial await the EARL of ROMFREY





Cecilia softly drop her father’s arm, and go into the house. the

exceed pallor of Beauchamp’s face haunt she in her room. she hear

the controversy proceed below, and an exclamation of Blackburn

Tuckham’s: “immorality of meat-eating? what nonsense be they up to

now?”



Beauchamp be inaudible, save in a word or two. as usual, he be the

solitary minority.



but how mournfully change he be! she have not notice it, agitate by

her own emotion as she have be, and at one time three part frozen.

he be the ghost of the Nevil Beauchamp who have spring on the deck of

the _Esperanza_ out of Lieutenant Wilmore’s boat, that sunny breezy day

which be the bright first chapter of her new life—of her late life, as

it seem to she now, for she be dead to it, and another creature, the

cold of the woman of earth. she feel sensibly cold, coveted warmth,

fling a shawl on her shoulder, and sit in a corner of her room, hide

and shiver beside the open window, till long after the gentleman have

cease to speak.



how much he must have suffer of late! the room she have look to as a

refuge from Nevil be now her stronghold against the man whom she have

incredibly accept. she remain there, the victim of a heart malady,

under the term of headache. feel entrap, she consider that she

must have be encircle and betray. she look back on herself as a

giddy figure fall into a pit: and in the pit she lay.



and how vile to have suspect of unfaithfulness and sordidness the

generous and stedfast man of earth! he never abandon a common

friendship. his love of his country be love still, whatever the form

it have take. his childlike reliance on effort and outspeake, for

which man laugh at he, be beautiful.



where be I? she cry amid her melting image of he, all dominate by

his wan feature. she be bind fast, imprison and a slave. even Mr.

Austin have conspire against he: for only she read Nevil justly. his

defence of Dr. Shrapnel fill she with an envy that no long malign

the object of it, but be humble, and like the desire of the sick to

creep into sunshine.



the only worthy thing she could think of do be (it must be

mention for a revelation of her fallen state, and, moreover, she be

not lusty of health at the moment) to abjure meat. the body loathe it,

and consequently the mind of the invalid lady shrink away in horror

of the bleed joint, and the increasingly fierce scramble of

christian soul for the dismembered animal: she see the innocent

pasture beast, she see the act of slaughter. she have actually

sweeping before her sight a spectacle of the ludicrous-terrific, in the

shape of an entire community pursue countless herd of poor

scamper animal life for blood: she, meanwhile, with Nevil and Dr.

Shrapnel, stand apart contemning. for whoso would not partake of flesh

in this kingdom of roast beef must be of the sparse number of Nevil’s

execrated minority in politic.



the example will show that she touch the border of delirium.

physically, the doctor pronounce she bilious. she be in earnest so

far as to send down to the library for medical book, and book upon

diet. these, however, do not plead for the beast. they treat the

subject without question of man’s take that which he have conquer.

poet and philosopher do the same. again she behold Nevil Beauchamp

solitary in the adverse rank to the world;—to his countryman

especially. but that it be no material cause which have waste his

cheek and line his forehead, she be sure: and to starve with he, to

embark with he in his little boat on the sea he whip to frenzy,

would have be a dream of bliss, have she dare to contemplate herself

in a dream as his companion.



it be not to be think of.



no: but this be, and to be think of seriously: Cecilia have say to

herself for consolation that Beauchamp be no spiritual guide; he have

her heart within she to plead for he, and the reflection come to she,

like a bubble up from the heart, that most of our spiritual guide

neglect the root to trim the flower: and thence, turn sharply on

herself, she obtain a sudden view of her allurement and her sin in

worship herself, and recognize that the aim at an ideal life

closely approach, or easily incline, to self-worship; to which the

lady be woman and artist enough to have have no objection, but that

therein visibly she discern the retributive vain longing, in the

guise of high individual superiority and distinction, that have thwart

she with Nevil Beauchamp, never permit she to love single-mindedly

or whole-heartedly, but always in reclaim her right and sigh for

the loss of her ideal; adore her own image, in fact, when she

pretend to cherish, and regret that she could not sufficiently

cherish, the fine element of nature. what be this ideal she have

complain of lose? it be a broken mirror: she could think of it in

no other form.



Dr. Shrapnel’s “ego-ego” yelp and give chase to she through the pure

beatitude of her early day down to her present regret. it hunt

all the saint in the calendar till their halo top-sided on their

head—her favourite St. Francis of Assisi except.



the doctor be call up from Bevisham next day, and pronounce she

bilious. he be humorous over Captain Beauchamp, who have go to the

parent of the dead girl, and gather the information that they be a

consumptive family, to vindicate Dr. Shrapnel. “the very family to

require strong nourishment,” say the doctor.



Cecilia do not rest in her sick-room before, hunt through one book

and another, she have find argument on the contrary side; a waste of

labour that heap oppression on her chest, as with the world’s weight.

apparently one have only to be in Beauchamp’s track to experience that.

she horrify her father by ask question about consumption.

Homoeopathy, hydropathy,—the revolutionary of medicine attract she.

Blackburn Tuckham, a model for an elect lover who be not beloved,

promise to procure all sort of treatise for she: no man could have

be so deferential to a diseased mind. beyond call she by her

christian name, he do nothing to distress she with the broad aspect of

their new relation together. he and Mr. Austin depart from Mount

Laurels, leave she to sink into an agreeable stupor, like one

deposit on a mudbank after buffet the wave. she learn that her

father have see Captain Baskelett, and remember, marvelling, how her

personal dread of an interview, that threaten to compromise her ideal

of her feminine and peculiar dignity, have assist to precipitate she

where she now lie helpless, almost inanimate.



she be unaware of the passage of time save when her father speak of a

marriage-day. it tell she that she live and be move. the fear of

death be not strong in we, nor the desire to put it off, than

Cecilia’s shunning of such a day. the naming of it numb her blood

like a snakebite. yet she openly acknowledge her engagement; and,

happily for Tuckham, his visit, both in London and at Mount Laurels,

be few and short, and he inflict no foretaste of her come

subjection to he to alarm she.



under her air of calm abstraction she watch he rigorously for some

sign of his ownership that should tempt she to revolt from her pledge,

or at least dream of break loose: the dream would have suffice. he

be never intrusive, never press. he do not vex, because he

absolutely trust to the noble loyalty which make her admit to herself

that she belong irrevocably to he, while her thought be upon

Beauchamp. with a respectful gravity he submit to her perusal a

collection of treatise on diet, class _pro_ and _con_, and page and

pencil-mark to simplify her study of the question. they sketch in

company; she play music to he, he read poetry to she, and read it

well. he seem to feel the beauty of it sensitively, as she do

critically. in other day the position have be reverse. he

invariably talk of Beauchamp with kindness, deplore only that he

should be squander his money on workman’s hall and other hazy

project down in Bevisham.



“Lydiard tell I he have a very sound idea of the value of money, and

have actually make money by cattle breeding; but he have fling ten

thousand pound on a single building outside the town, and he’ll have

to endow it to support it—a Club to educate Radicals. the fact be, he

want to jam the business of two or three century into a life-time.

these man of their so-call progress be like the majority of

religious mind: they cann’t believe without see and touching. that

be to say, they don’t believe in the abstract at all, but they go to

work blindly by agitate, and proselytizing, and persecute to get

together a mass they can believe in. you see it in their way of

argue; it’s half do with the fist. Lydiard tell I he leave he

last in a horrible despondency about progress. ha! ha! Beauchamp’s no

Radical. he haven’t forgive the Countess of Romfrey for marry above

her rank. he may be a bit of a Republican: but really in this country

Republicans be fight with the shadow of an old hat and a cockhorse.

I beg to state that I have a reverence for constituted authority: I

speak of what those fellow be contend with.”



“right,” say Colonel Halkett. “but ‘the shadow of an old hat and a

cockhorse’: what do that mean?”



“that’s what our Republicans be hit at, sir.”



“ah! so; yes,” quoth the colonel. “and I say this to Nevil Beauchamp,

that what we’ve grow up well with, powerfully with, it’s base

ingratitude and dangerous folly to throw over.”



he blame Beauchamp for ingratitude to the countess, who have, he

affirm of his own knowledge, marry Lord Romfrey to protect

Beauchamp’s interest.



a curious comment on this allegation be furnish by the announcement

of the earl’s expectation of a son and heir. the earl write to Colonel

Halkett from Romfrey Castle invite he to come and spend some time

there.



“now, that’s brave news!” the colonel exclaim.



he propose a cruise round by the cornish coast to the Severn, and so

to Romfrey Castle, to squeeze the old lord’s hand and congratulate he

with all his heart. Cecilia be glad to acquiesce, for an expedition of

any description be a lull in the storm that hum about her ear in

the peace of home, where her father would perpetually speak of the day

to be fix. sail the sea on a cruise be like the gazing at

wonderful colour of a western sky: an oblivion of earthly date and

obligation. what matter it that there be gale in August? she

love the sea, and the sting salt spray, and circle gull and

plunge gannet, the sun on the wave, and the tear cloud. the

revel libertine open sea wed she to Beauchamp in that veil

cold spiritual manner she could muse on as a circumstance out of her

life.



fair company of race yacht be leave behind. the gale of August

matter frightfully to poor Blackburn Tuckham, who be to be drop

at a town in South Wales, and descend greenish to his cabin as soon

as they have crash on the first wall-wave of the chalk-race, a throw

beyond the peak cliff edge with cormorant, and be really taste

sea. Cecilia recline on deck, wrap in shawl and waterproof. as the

Alpine climber claim the upper air, she have the wild sea to herself

through her love of it; quite to herself. it be delicious to look

round and ahead, and the perturbation be just enough to preserve she

from thought too deep inward in a scene where the ghost of Nevil be

abroad.



the hard dry gale increase. her father, stretch beside she, draw she

attention to a small cutter under double-reefed main-sail and small jib

on the _Esperanza’s_ weather bow—a gallant boat carefully handle. she

watch it with some anxiety, but the _Esperanza_ be bind for a Devon

bay, and bear away from the black dorsetshire headland, leave the

little cutter to run into haven if she please. the pass she be no

event.—In a representation of the common event befall we in these

time, upon an appreciation of which this history depend, one turn at

while a languish glance toward the vast potential mood, pluperfect

tense. for Nevil Beauchamp be on board the cutter, steer she, with

Dr. Shrapnel and Lydiard in the well, and if an accident have happen

to cutter or schooner, what else might not have happen? Cecilia

gather it from Mrs. Wardour-Devereux, whom, to her surprise and

pleasure, she find at Romfrey Castle. her friend Louise receive a

letter from Mr. Lydiard, contain a literary amateur seaman’s log of

a cruise of a fifteen-ton cutter in a gale, and a pure literary sketch

of Beauchamp standing drench at the helm from five in the morning up

to nine at night, munch a biscuit for nourishment. the beautiful

widow prepare the way for what be very soon to be publicly know

concern herself by read out this passage of her correspondent’s

letter in the breakfast room.



“yes, the fellow’s a sailor!” say Lord Romfrey.



the countess rise from her chair and walk out.



“now, be that abuse of the fellow?” the old lord ask Colonel

Halkett. “I say he be a sailor, I say nothing else. he be a sailor,

and he’s fit for nothing else, and no ship will he get unless he bend

his neck never ’s nearer it.”



he hesitate a moment, and go after his wife.



Cecilia sit with the countess, in the afternoon, at a window

overlook the swell wood of Romfrey. she praise the loveliness

of the view.



“it be fire to I,” say Rosamund.



Cecilia look at she, startle. Rosamund say no more.



she be an excellent hostess, nevertheless, unpretending and simple in

company; and only when it chance that Beauchamp’s name be mention

do she cast that quick supplicate nervous glance at the earl, with a

shadow of an elevation of her shoulder, as if in apprehension of

mordant pain.



we will make no mystery about it. I would I could. those happy tale of

mystery be as much my envy as the popular narrative of the deed of

bread and cheese people, for they both create a tide-way in the

attentive mind; the mysterious prick our credulous flesh to creep,

the familiar urge our obese imagination to constitutional exercise.

and oh, the refreshment there be in deal with character either

contemptibly beneath we or supernaturally above! my way be like a Rhone

island in the summer drought, stony, unattractive and difficult between

the two forceful stream of the unreal and the over-real, which delight

mankind—honour to the conjuror! my people conquer nothing, win none;

they be actual, yet uncommon. it be the clock-work of the brain that

they be direct to set in motion, and—poor troop of actor to vacant

benches!—the conscience reside in thoughtfulness which they would

appeal to; and if you be there impervious to they, we be lose: back I

go to my wilderness, where, as you perceive, I have contract the

habit of listen to my own voice more than be good:—



the burden of a child in her bosom have come upon Rosamund with the

visage of the Angel of Death front she in her path. she believe

that she would die; but like much that we call belief, there be a

kernel of doubt in it, which be lively when her frame be enliven,

and she then think of the give birth to this unloved child, which

be to disinherit the man she love, in whose interest solely (so she

could presume to think, because it have be her motive reason) she have

marry the earl. she have no wish to be a mother; but that prospect,

and the dread attach to it at her time of life, she could have

submit to for Lord Romfrey’s sake. it strike she like a scoffer’s

blow that she, the one woman on earth love Nevil, should have become

the instrument for dispossess he. the revulsion of her feeling

enlighten she so far as to suggest, without enable she to fathom

he, that instead of having cleverly sway Lord Romfrey, she have be

his dupe, or a blind accomplice; and though she be too humane a woman

to think of punish he, she have so much to forgive that the trifle

daily and at any instant add to the load, flush her resentment,

like fresh light show new feature and gigantic outline. nevil’s

loss of Cecilia she have anticipate; she have hear of it when she be

lie in physical and mental apathy at Steynham. Lord Romfrey have

repeat to she the nature of his reply to the search parental

question of Colonel Halkett, and having foresee it all, and what be

more, foretold it, she be not arouse from her torpor. latterly, with

the return of her natural strength, she have show herself incapable of

hear her husband speak of Nevil; nor be the earl tardy in take

the hint to spare the mother of his child allusion that vex she. now

and then they occur perforce. the presence of Cecilia exasperate

Rosamund’s peculiar sensitiveness. it require Louise

Wardour-devereux’s apology and interpretation to account for what

appear to Cecilia strangely ill-condition, if not insane, in Lady

Romfrey’s behaviour. the most astonishing thing to hear be, that Lady

Romfrey have pay Mrs. Devereux a visit at her Surrey house unexpectedly

one Sunday in the London season, for the purpose, as it become evident,

of meet Mr. Blackburn Tuckham: and how she could have know that Mr.

Tuckham would be there, Mrs. Devereux could not tell, for it be,

Louise assure Cecilia, purely by chance that he and Mr. Lydiard be

present: but the countess obtain an interview with he alone, and Mr.

Tuckham come from it declare it to have be more terrible than any

he have ever be call upon to endure. the object of the countess be

to persuade he to renounce his bride.



Louise reply to the natural inquiry—“Upon what plea?” with a

significant evasiveness. she put her arm round Cecilia’s neck: “I

trust you be not unhappy. you will get no release from he.”



“I be not unhappy,” say Cecilia, musically clear to convince her

friend.



she be indeed glad to feel the stout chain of her anchor restrain

she when Lady Romfrey talk of Nevil; they be like the safety of

marriage without the dread ceremony, and with solitude to let she

weep. bind thus to a weak man than Blackburn Tuckham, though he have

be more warmly esteem, her fancy would have drift away over the

deep, perhaps her cherished loyalty would have drown in her

tear—for Lady Romfrey task it very severely: but he from whom she

could hope for no release, give she some of the firmness which she

nature crave in this trial.



from say quietly to she: “I think once you love he,” when

allude to Nevil, Lady Romfrey pass to mournful exclamation, and by

degree on to direct entreaty. she relate the whole story of Renée

in England, and appear distressed with a desperate wonderment at

Cecilia’s mildness after hear it. her hearer would have imagine

that she have no moral sense, if it have not be so perceptible that the

poor lady’s mind be distemper on the one subject of Nevil Beauchamp.

Cecilia’s high conception of duty, wherein she be a peerless flower of

our english civilization, be incommunicable: she could practise, not

explain it. she bow to Lady Romfrey’s praise of Nevil, suffer she

hand to be wring, her heart to be touch, all but an avowal of her

love of he to be wrest from she, and not the less do she retain she

cold resolution to marry to please her father and fulfil her pledge. in

truth, it be too late to speak of Renée to she now. it do not beseem

Cecilia to remember that she have ever be a victim of jealousy; and

while confess to many error, because she feel they, and gain a

necessary strength from they—in the comfort of the consciousness of

pain, for example, which she sorely need, that the pain in her own

breast might deaden she to Nevil’s jealousy, the mean of the error

of a lofty soul, yield no extract beyond the bare humiliation proper

to an acknowledgement that it have exist: so she discard the

recollection of the passion which have work the mischief. since we

cannot have a peerless flower of civilization without artificial aid,

it may be understand how it be that Cecilia could extinguish some

light in her mind and kindle other, and wherefore what it be not

natural for she to do, she do. she have, briefly, a certain control of

herself.



our common reading in the fictitious romance which mark out a plot

and measure their character to fit into it, have make Rosamund hopeful

of the effect of that story of Renée. a wooden young woman, or a

galvanized (sweet to the writer, either of they, as to the reader—so

moveable they be!) would have see her business at this point, and

have glide melt to reconciliation and the chamber where romantic

fiction end joyously. Rosamund have count on it.



she look intently at Cecilia. “he be ruin, waste, ill, unlove; he

have lose you—I be the cause!” she cry in a convulsion of grief.



“Dear Lady Romfrey!” Cecilia would have console she. “there be nothing

to lead we to suppose that Nevil be unwell, and you be not to blame

for anything: how can you be?”



“I speak falsely of Dr. Shrapnel; I be the cause. it lie on I! it

pursue I. let I give to the poor as I may, and feel for the poor, as

I do, to get near to Nevil—I cannot have peace! his heart have turn

from I. he despise I. if I have speak to Lord Romfrey at Steynham,

as he command I, you and he—oh! cowardice: he be right, cowardice be

the chief evil in the world. he be ill; he be desperately ill; he will

die.”



“have you hear he be very ill, Lady Romfrey?”



“no! no!” Rosamund exclaim; “it be by not hear that I _know_ it!”



with the assistance of Louise Devereux, Cecilia gradually awaken to

what be go on in the house. there have be a correspondence between

Miss Denham and the countess. letter from Bevisham have suddenly

cease. presumably the earl have stop they: and if so it must have

be for a tragic reason.



Cecilia hint some blame of Lord Romfrey to her father.



he press her hand and say: “you don’t know what that man suffer.

Romfrey be fond of Nevil too, but he must guard his wife; and the fact

be Nevil be down with fever. it’s in the paper now; he may be able to

conceal it, and I hope he will. there’ll be a crisis, and then he can

tell her good news—a little illness and all right now! of course,” the

colonel continue buoyantly, “Nevil will recover; he’s a tough wiry

young fellow, but poor Romfrey’s fear be natural enough about the

countess. her mind seem to be haunt by the doctor there—Shrapnel, I

mean; and she’s exciteable to a degree that threaten the bad—in case

of any accident in Bevisham.”



“be it not a kind of cowardice to conceal it?” Cecilia suggest.



“it save she from fret,” say the colonel.



“but she be fret! if Lord Romfrey would confide in she and trust to

her courage, papa, it would be good.”



Colonel Halkett think that Lord Romfrey be the judge.



Cecilia wish to leave a place where this visible torture of a human

soul be proceed, and to no purpose. she point out to her father,

by a variety of sign, that Lady Romfrey either know or suspect the

state of affair in Bevisham, and repeat her remark upon Nevil’s

illness. but Colonel Halkett be restrain from depart by the

earl’s constant request to he to stay. old friendship demand it of

he. he begin to share his daughter’s feeling at the sight of Lady

Romfrey. she be outwardly patient and submissive; by nature she be a

strong healthy woman; and she attend to all her husband’s

prescription for the regulating of her habit, walk with he, lay

down for the afternoon’s rest, appear amuse when he labour to that

effect, and do she utmost to subdue the worm devour her heart but

the hour of the delivery of the letter-post be fatal to she. her

woeful: “no letter for I!” be piteous. when that be hear no long,

her silence and famished gaze chill Cecilia. at night Rosamund eye

her husband expressionlessly, with her head lean back in her chair,

to the sorrow of the lady behold she. ultimately the contagion of

her settle misery take hold of Cecilia. Colonel Halkett be induce by

his daughter and Mrs. Devereux to endeavour to combat a system that

threaten consequence bad than those it be plan to avert. he by

this time be aware of the serious character of the malady which have

prostrate Nevil. Lord Romfrey have direct his own medical man to go

down to Bevisham, and Dr. Gannet’s report of Nevil be grave. the

colonel make light of it to his daughter, after the fashion he

condemn in Lord Romfrey, to whom however he speak earnestly of the

necessity for partially take his wife into his confidence to the

extent of let she know that a slight fever be run its course

with Nevil.



“there will be no slight fever in my wife’s blood,” say the earl. “I

stand to weather the cape or run to wreck, and it willn’t do to be take

in reef on a lee-shore. you don’t see what fret she, colonel. for

year she have be bent on Nevil’s marriage. it’s off: but if you catch

Cecilia by the hand and bring she to we—I swear she love the

fellow!—that’s the medicine for my wife. say: will you do it? tell Lady

Romfrey it shall be do. we shall stand upright again!”



“I’m afraid that’s impossible, Romfrey,” say the colonel.



“play at it, then! let she think it. you’re help I treat an

invalid. Colonel! my old friend! you save my house and name if you do

that. it’s a hand round a candle in a burst of wind. there’s Nevil

drag by a woman into one of their reeking hovel—so that Miss Denham

at Shrapnel’s write to Lady Romfrey—because the woman’s drunken

husband vote for he at the Election, and be kick out of

employment, and fall upon the gin-bottle, and the brat of the den die

starving, and the man sicken of a fever; and Nevil go in and sit

with he! out of that tangle of folly be my house to be strike down? it

look as if the fellow with his infernal ‘humanity,’ be the bad

genius of an old nurse’s tale. he’s a good fellow, colonel, he mean

well. this fever will cure he, they say it sober like bloodlette.

he’s a gallant fellow; you know that. he fight to the skeleton in our

last big war. on my soul, I believe he’s good for a husband.

Frenchwoman or not, that affair’s over. he shall have Steynham and

Holdesbury. can I say more? now, colonel, you go in to the countess.

grasp my hand. give I that help, and God bless you! you light up my

old day. she’s a noble woman: I would not change she against the good

in the land. she have this craze about Nevil. I suppose she’ll never get

over it. but there it be: and we must feed she with the spoon.”



Colonel Halkett argue stutteringly with the powerful man: “it’s the

truth she ought to hear, Romfrey; indeed it be, if you’ll believe I.

it’s his life she be fear for. she know half.”



“she know positively nothing, colonel. Miss Denham’s first letter

speak of the fellow’s have headache, and staggering. he be out on a

cruise, and see your schooner pass, and put into some port, and begin

fall right and leave, and they get he back to Shrapnel’s: and here

it be—that if you go to he you’ll save he, and if you go to my wife

you’ll save she: and there you have it: and I ask my old friend, I beg

he to go to they both.”



“but you cann’t surely expect I to force my daughter’s inclination, my

dear Romfrey?”



“Cecilia love the fellow!”



“she be engage to Mr. Tuckham.”



“I’ll see the man Tuckham.”



“really, my dear lord!”



“play at it, Halkett, play at it! tide we over this! talk to she: hint

it and nod it. we have to round November. I could strangle the world

till that month’s past. you’ll own,” he add mildly after his thunder,

“I’m not much of the despot Nevil call I. she have not a wish I don’t

supply. I’m at her beck, and everything that’s mine. she’s a brave good

woman. I don’t complain. I run my chance. but if we lose the child—good

night! boy or girl!—boy!”



Lord Romfrey fling an arm up. the child of his old age live for he

already: he give it all the life he have. this miracle, this young son

spring up on an earth decaying and dark, absorb he. this reviver

of his ancient line must not be lose. perish every consideration to

avert it! he be ready to fear, love, or hate terribly, accord to

the prospect of his child.



Colonel Halkett be oblige to enter into a consultation, of a shadowy

sort, with his daughter, whose only advice be that they should leave

the castle. the penetrable gloom there, and the grow apprehension

concern the countess and Nevil, tear she to piece. even if she

could have conspire with the earl to hoodwink his wife, her strong

sense tell she it would be fruitless, besides base. Father and daughter

have to make the stand against Lord Romfrey. he see their departure from

the castle gate, and kiss his hand to Cecilia, courteously, without

a smile.



“he may well praise the countess, papa,” say Cecilia, while they be

look back at the castle and the moveless flag that hang in fold by

the mast above it. “she have give I her promise to avoid question

he and to accept his view of her duty. she say to I that if Nevil

should die she...”



Cecilia herself break down, and give way to sob in her father’s arm.









CHAPTER XLIX.

a fabric of BARONIAL despotism crumbles





the earl’s precaution do duty night and day in all the avenue

lead to the castle and his wife’s apartment; and he could believe

that he have undertake as good a defence as the mountain guard the

fertile vale from storm: but he the element pelt heavily. letter

from acquaintance of Nevil, from old shipmate and from queer

political admirer and opponent, hail on he; thing not to be

frigidly read be relate of the fellow.



Lord Romfrey’s faith in the power of constitution to beat disease

battle sturdily with the daily report of his physician and friend,

whom he have direct to visit the cottage on the common outside

Bevisham, and with Miss Denham’s intercept letter to the countess.

still he have to calculate on the various injury Nevil have do to his

constitution, which have make of he another sort of man for a struggle

of life and death than when he stand like a riddled flag through the

war. that late freak of the fellow’s, the abandonment of our natural

and wholesome sustenance in animal food, be to be take in the

reckoning. Dr. Gannet do not allude to it; the Bevisham doctor do;

and the earl meditate with a fury of wrath on the dismal chance that

such a folly as this of one old vegetable idiot influence a young

noodle, might strike his House to the dust.



his watch over his wife have grow mechanical: he fail to observe that

her voice be miss. she rarely speak. he lose the art of observe

himself: the wrinkling up and drop of his brow become his habitual

language. so long as he have not to meet inquiry or face tear, he

enjoy the sense of security. he never quit his wife save to walk

to the southern park lodge, where letter and telegram be pile

await he; and she be forbid to take the air on the castle

terrace without his be beside she, lest a whisper, some accident of

the kind that donkey who nod over their drowsy nose-length-ahead

precaution call fatality, should rouse she to suspect, and in a turn

of the hand undo his labour: for the race be get terrible: death

have not yet step out of that evil chamber in Dr. Shrapnel’s cottage

to aim his javelin at the bosom contain the prized young life to

come, but, like the smoke of wax fire, he shadow forth his

presence in wreath blacker and thick day by day: and Everard Romfrey

know that the hideous beast of darkness have only to spring up and pass

his guard to deal a blow to his House the direr from all he suppose

himself to have gain by mask it hitherto. the young life he look

to for renewal swallow he: he partly lose human feeling for his wife

in the tremendous watch and strain to hurry she as a vessel round the

dangerous headland. he be oblivious that his eyebrow talk, that his

head be bent low, that his mouth be shut, and that where a doubt have

be sow, silence and such sign be like revelation in black night

to the spirit of a woman who love.



one morning after breakfast Rosamund hang on his arm, eye he

neither questioningly nor invitingly, but long. he kiss her forehead.

she cling to he and close her eye, show he a face of slumber,

like a mask of the dead.



Mrs. Devereux be present. Cecilia have entreat she to stay with Lady

Romfrey. she steal away, for the time have come which any close observer

of the countess must have expect.



the earl lift his wife, and carry she to her sitting-room. a

sunless weltering September day whip the window-pane and bring

the roar of the beat wood to her ear. he be boot and gaitere

for his customary walk to the park lodge, and as he bend a knee beside

she, she murmur: “don’t wait; return soon.”



he place a cord attach to the bellrope within her reach. this utter

love of Nevil Beauchamp be beyond his comprehension, but there it be,

and he have to submit to it and manœuvre. his letter and telegram tell

the daily tale. “he’s well,” say the earl, prepare himself to

answer what his wife’s look have warn he would come.



she be an image of peace, in the same posture on the couch where he

have leave she, when he return. she do not open her eye, but feel

about for his hand, and touch it, she seem to weigh the finger.



at last she say: “the fever should be at its height.”



“why, my dear brave girl, what ail you?” say he.



“ignorance.”



she raise her eyelid. his head be bent down over she, like a raven’s

watching, a picture of grave vigilance.



her bosom rise and sink. “what have Miss Denham write to-day?”



“to-day?” he ask she gently.



“I shall bear it,” she answer. “you be my master before you be my

husband. I bear anything you think be good for my government. only, my

ignorance be fever; I share Nevil’s.”



“have you be to my desk at all?”



“no. I read your eye and your hand: I have be live on they.

to-day I find that I have not gain by it, as I hope I should.

ignorance kill I. I really have courage to bear to hear—just at this

moment I have.”



“there’s no bad news, my love,” say the earl.



“high fever, be it?”



“the usual fever. Gannet’s with he. I send for Gannet to go there, to

satisfy you.”



“Nevil be not dead?”



“Lord! ma’am, my dear soul!”



“he be alive?”



“quite: certainly alive; as much alive as I be; only go a little

fast, as fellow do in the jump of a fever. the good doctor in

England be by his bed. he’s do fairly. you should have let I know

you be fret, my Rosamund.”



“I do not wish to tempt you to lie, my dear lord.”



“well, there be time when a woman... as you be: but you’re a brave

woman, a strong heart, and my wife. you want some one to sit with you,

don’t you? Louise Devereux be a pleasant person, but you want a man to

amuse you. I’d have send to Stukely, but you want a serious man, I

fancy.”



so much have the earl be throw out of his plan for protect his

wife, that he feel helpless, and hint at the aid and comfort of

religion. he have not reject the official Church, and regard it now

as in alliance with great Houses, he consider that its minister

might also be useful to the troubled woman of noble family. he

offer, if she please, to call in the rector to sit with she—the

bishop of the diocese, if she like.



“but just as you like, my love,” he add. “you know you have to avoid

fretting. I’ve hear my sister talk of the parson do they good off

and on about the time of their be bring to bed. he elevate their

mind, they say. I’m sure I’ve no objection. if he can doctor the

mind of woman he’s get a profession worth something.”



Rosamund smother an outcry. “you mean that Nevil be past hope!”



“not if he’s get a fair half of our blood in he. and Richard Beauchamp

give the fellow good stock. he have about the good blood in England.

that’s not say much when they’ve take to breed as they build—stuff

to keep the plasterer at work; devil a thought of posterity!”



“there I see you and nevil one, my dear lord,” say Rosamund. “you

think of those that be to follow we. talk to I of he. do not say,

‘the fellow.’ say ‘nevil.’ no, no; call he ‘the fellow.’ he be alive

and well when you use to say it. but smile kindly, as if he make you

love he down in your heart, in spite of you. we have both know that

love, and that opposition to he; not like his idea, yet like he

so: we be oblige to laugh—I have see you! as love do laugh! if I

be not cry over his grave, Everard? oh!”



the earl smooth her forehead. all her suspicion be rekindle.

“Truth! truth! give I truth. let I know what world I be in.”



“my dear, a ship’s not lose because she’s catch in a squall; nor a man

buffet the wave for an hour. he’s all right: he keep up.”



“he be delirious? I ask you—I have fancy I hear he.”



Lord Romfrey puff from his nostril: but in affect to blow to the

wind her foolish woman’s wildness of fancy, his mind rest on Nevil,

and he say: “poor boy! it seem he’s chatter hundred to the

minute.”



his wife’s look alarm he after he have say it, and he be for

tone it and modify it, when she gasp to he to help she to her

foot; and stand up, she exclaim: “o heaven! now I hear _you;_ now

I know he live. see how much well it be for I to know the real

truth. it take I to his bedside. ignorance and suspense have be

poison. I have be wash about like a dead body. let I read all my

letter now. nothing will harm I now. you will do your good for I, my

husband, will you not?” she tear at her dress at her throat for

coolness, pant and smile. “for I—us—your—our! give I my

letter, lunch with I, and start for Bevisham. now you see how good it

be for I to hear the very truth, you will give I your own report, and

I shall absolutely trust in it, and go down with it if it’s false! but

you see I be perfectly strong for the truth. it must be you or I to go.

I burn to go; but your going will satisfy I. if _you_ look on he, I

look. I feel as if I have be nail down in a coffin, and have get

fresh air. I pledge you my word, sir, my honour, my dear husband, that

I will think first of my duty. I know it would be Nevil’s wish. he have

not quite forgive I—he think I ambitious—ah! stop: he say that

the birth of our child would give he great happiness than he have

know for year: he beg I to persuade you to call a boy Nevil

Beauchamp, and a girl Renée. he have never believe in his own long

living.”



Rosamund refresh her lord’s heart by smile archly as she say: “the

boy to be _educate_ to take the side of the people, of course! the

girl be to learn a profession.”



“ha! bless the fellow!” Lord Romfrey interject. “well, I might go

there for an hour. promise I, no fretting! you have hollow in your

cheek, and your underlip hang: I don’t like it. I haven’t see that

before.”



“we do not see clearly when we be try to deceive,” say Rosamund.

“my letter! my letter!”



Lord Romfrey go to fetch they. they be intact in his desk. his

wife, then, have actually be read the fact through a wall! for he

be convince of Mrs. Devereux’s fidelity, as well as of the colonel’s

and Cecilia’s. he be not a man to be disobey: nor be his wife the

woman to court or to acquiesce in trifle act of disobedience to he.

he receive the impression, consequently, that this matter of the visit

to Nevil be one in which the poor love soul might be allow to

guide he, singular as the intensity of her love of Nevil Beauchamp

be, consider that they be not of kindre blood.



he endeavour to tone her mind for the sad item in Miss Denham’s

letter.



“oh!” say Rosamund, “what if I shed the ‘scream eyedrop,’ as you

call they? they will not hurt I, but relieve. I be sure I should

someday envy that girl! if he die she will have nurse he and have the

last of he.”



“he’s not go to die!” say Everard powerfully.



“we must be prepare. these letter will do that for I. I have write

out the hour of your train. Stanton will attend on you. I have

direct he to telegraph to the dolphin in Bevisham for room for the

night: that be to-morrow night. to-night you sleep at your hotel in

London, which will be ready to receive you, and be more comfortable

than the empty house. Stanton take wine, madeira and claret, and other

small necessary. if Nevil should be _very_ unwell, you will not leave

he immediately. I shall look to the supply. you will telegraph to I

twice a day, and write once. we lunch at half-past twelve, so that you

may hit the twenty-minutes-to-two o’clock train. and now I go to see

that the packing be do.”



she carry off her letter to her bedroom, where she fall upon the

bed, shut her eyelid hard before she could suffer her eye to be

the intermediary of that fever-chamber in Bevisham and her burst

heart. but she have not positively deceive her husband in the

reassurance she have give he by her collectedness and by the precise

direction she have issue for his comfort, indicate a mind so much

more at ease. she be firm to meet the peril of her beloved: and

be indeed, when throw on her internal resource, one among the

brave woman of earth, though also one who require a lift from

circumstance to take she stand calmly front a menace to her heart,

she see the evidence of her influence with Lord Romfrey: the level she

could feel that they be on together so long as she be courageous,

inspirit she sovereignly.



he depart at the hour settle for he. Rosamund sit at her boudoir

window, watch the carriage that be conduct he to the railway

station. neither of they have touch on the necessity of his present

himself at the door of Dr. Shrapnel’s house. that, and the disgust

belong to it, be a secondary consideration with Lord Romfrey, after

he have once resolve on it as the right thing to do: and his wife

admire and respect he for so supreme a loftiness. and fervently she

pray that it might not be her evil fate to disappoint his hope.

never have she experience so strong a sense of devotedness to he as

when she see the carriage wind past the middle oak-wood of the park,

under a wet sky brighten from the West, and on out of sight.









CHAPTER L.

AT the cottage on the COMMON





Rain go with Lord Romfrey in a pursuing cloud all the way to

Bevisham, and across the common to the long garden and plain little

green-shutter, neat white cottage of Dr. Shrapnel. carriage be

drive from the door; idle man with hand deep in their pocket hung

near it, some woman point their shoulder under wet shawl, and

boy. the earl be on foot. with no sign of discomposure, he stand at

the half-open door and send in his card, bear the request for

permission to visit his nephew. the reply fail to come to he

immediately, he begin stride to and fro. that garden gate where he

have flourish the righteous whip be wide. foot-farer over the sodden

common be attract to the gateway, and linger in it, look at

the long, green-extend window, apparently listen, before they

break away to exchange undertone speech here and there. boy have push

up through the garden to the kitchen area. from time to time a woman in

a dripping bonnet whimper aloud.



an air of a country churchyard on a Sunday morning when the curate have

commence the service prevail. the boy be subdue by the moisture,

as they be when they sit in the church aisle or organ-loft, before

their member have be much cramp.



the whole scene, and especially the behaviour of the boy, betoken to

Lord Romfrey that an event have come to pass.



in the chronicle of a sickness the event be death.



he bethink he of various mean of stop the telegraph and

smother the tale, if matter should have touch the bad here. he

calculate abstrusely the practicable shortness of the two route from

Bevisham to Romfrey, by post-horse on the straight line of road, or

by express train on the triangle of railway, in case of an extreme need

require he to hasten back to his wife and renew his

paternal-despotic system with she. she have but persuade he of the

policy of a liberal openness and confidence for the moment’s occasion:

she could not turn his nature, which run to stroke of craft and blunt

decision whenever the emergency smite he and he feel himself hail to

show generalship.



while thus occupy in thoughtfulness he become aware of the monotony

of a tuneless chant, as if, it strike he, an insane young chorister or

canon be gallop straight on end hippomaniacally through the

Psalms. there be a creak at interval, lead he to think it a

machine that might have run away with the winder’s arm.



the earl’s humour propose the notion to he that this perhaps be one

of the form of Radical lamentation, ululation, possibly practise by a

veteran impietist like Dr. Shrapnel for the loss of his youngster, his

political cub—poor lad!



Deriding any such paganry, and aught that could be set howl, Lord

Romfrey be presently move to ask of the small crowd at the gate what

that sound be.



“it’s the poor commander, sir,” say a wet-shawle woman, shiver.



“he’s be at it twenty hour already, sir,” say one of the boy.



“twenty-foor hour he’ve be at it,” say another.



a short dispute grow over the exact number of hour. one boy declare

that thirty hour have be reach. “Father heerd ’n yesterday morning

as he be aff to ’s work in the town afore six: that bring ’t nigh

thirty and he ha’n’t stop yet.”



the earl be invite to step inside the gate, a little way up to the

house, and under the commander’s window, that he might obtain a well

hearing.



he swing round, walk away, walk back, and listen.



if it be indeed a voice, the voice, he would have say, be travel

high in air along the sky.



yesterday he have describe to his wife Nevil’s chattering of hundred

to the minute. he have not realize the description, which have be only

his manner of paint delirium: there have be no warrant for it. he

hear the wild scudding voice imperfectly: it remind he of a string

of winter geese changeing water. shower gust, and the wail and hiss

of the row of fir-tree border the garden, come between, and

allow he a moment’s incredulity as to its be a human voice. such

a cry will often haunt the moor and wold from above at nightfall. the

voice hie on, sank, seem swallow; it rise, as if above water, in a

hush of wind and tree. the tree bow their head rage, the voice

drown; once more to rise, chatter thrice rapidly, in a

high-pitch key, thin, shrill, weird, interminable, like wind through

a crazy chamber-door at midnight.



the voice of a broomstick-witch in the cloud could not be thin and

stranger: Lord Romfrey have some such thought.



Dr. Gannet be the bearer of Miss Denham’s excuse to Lord Romfrey for

the delay in beg he to enter the house: in the confusion of the

household his lordship’s card have be lay on the table below, and she

be in the sick-room.



“be my nephew a dead man?” say the earl.



the doctor weigh his reply. “he live. whether he will, after the

exhaustion of this prolong fit of raving, I don’t dare to predict. in

the course of my experience I have never know anything like it. he

live: there’s the miracle, but he live.”



“on brandy?”



“that would soon have speed he.”



“ha. you have everything here that you want?”



“everything.”



“he’s in your hand, Gannet.”



the earl be conduct to a sitting-room, where Dr. Gannet leave he for

a while.



Mindful that he be under the roof of his enemy, he remained stand,

observe nothing.



the voice overheard be off at a prodigious rate, like the far sound of

a yell ring on and on.



the earl unconsciously seek a refuge from it by turn the leave of

a book upon the table, which be a complete edition of Harry Denham’s

Poems, with a preface by a man name Lydiard; and really, to read the

preface one would suppose that these poet be the prince of the

earth. Lord Romfrey close the volume. it be exquisitely bind, and

present to Miss Denham by the Mr. Lydiard. “the work of your

illustrious father,” be write on the title-page. these writer deal

queerly with their word of praise of one another. there be no law to

restrain they. perhaps it be the consolation they take for the poor

devil’s life they lead!



a lady address he familiarly, invite he to go upstairs.



he thank she. at the foot of the stair he turn; he have recognize

Cecilia Halkett.



see she there be more strange to he than be there himself; but

he bow to fact.



“what do you think?” he say.



she do not answer intelligibly.



he walk up.



the crazed gabbling tongue have entire possession of the house, and ring

through it at an amazing pitch to sustain for a single minute.



a reflection to the effect that dog die more decently than we man,

sadden the earl. but, then, it be true, we shorten their pang by

shoot they.



a dismal figure loom above he at the head of the stair.



he distinguish it in the vast lean length he have once whip and

fling to earth.



Dr. Shrapnel be plant against the wall outside that rave chamber,

at the salient angle of a common prop or buttress. the edge of a

shoulder and a heel be the support to he sideways in his distort

attitude. his wall arm hang dead beside his pendent frock-coat; the

hair of his head have go to wildness, like a field of barley whip

by tempest. one hand press his eyeball: his unshaven jaw drop.



Lord Romfrey pass he by.



the dumb consent of all present affirm the creature lie on the bed

to be Nevil Beauchamp.



face, voice, lank arm, chicken neck: what a sepulchral sketch of he!



it be the revelry of a corpse.



shudder of alarm for his wife seize Lord Romfrey at the sight. he

think the poor thing on the bed must be go, resolve to a cry,

unwind itself violently in its hurricane of speech, that be not

speech nor exclamation, rather the tongue let loose to run to the

death. it seem to be out in mid-sea, up wave and down wave.



a nurse be at the pillow smooth it. Miss Denham stand at the foot

of the bed.



“be that pain?” Lord Romfrey say low to Dr. Gannet.



“unconscious,” be the reply.



Miss Denham glide about the room and disappear.



her business be to remove Dr. Shrapnel, that he might be out of the

way when Lord Romfrey should pass he again: but Dr. Shrapnel hear one

voice only, and moan, “my Beauchamp!” she could not get he to stir.



Miss Denham see he start slightly as the earl step forth and,

bow to he, say: “I thank you, sir, for permit I to visit my

nephew.”



Dr. Shrapnel make a motion of the hand, to signify freedom of access to

his house. he would have speak, the effort fetch a burst of terrible

chuckle. he cover his face.



Lord Romfrey descend. the silly old wretch have disturb his

equanimity as a composer of fiction for the comfort and sustainment of

his wife: and no soon have he the front door in view than the

calculation of the three stride requisite to carry he out of the

house pluck at his leg, much as young people be affect by a

dancing measure; for he have, without deign to think of matter

disagreeable to he in do so, perform the duty impose upon he by

his wife, and now it behove he to ward off the come blow from that

double life at Romfrey Castle.



he be arrest in his hasty passage by Cecilia Halkett.



she hand he a telegraphic message: Rosamund request he to stay

two day in Bevisham. she say additionally: “perfectly well. shall

fear to see you return yet. have send to Tourdestelle. all his

friend. Ni espoir, ni crainte, mais point de déception. Lumière. ce

sont le ténèbre qui tuent.”



her nimble wit have spy he on the road he be choose, and outrun

he.



he resign himself to wait a couple of day at Bevisham. Cecilia

beg he to accept a bed at Mount Laurels. he decline, and ask

she: “how be it you be here?”



“I call here,” say she, compress her eyelid in anguish at a

wilder cry of the voice overhead, and forget to state why she have

call at the house and what service she have undertake. a heap of

letter in her handwriting explain the nature of her task.



Lord Romfrey ask she where the colonel be.



“he drive I down in the morning and back at night, but they will give

I a bed or a sofa here to-night—I cann’t...” Cecilia stretch her hand

out, blind, to the earl.



he squeeze her hand.



“these letter take away my strength: crying be quite useless, I know

that,” say she, glance at a pile of letter that she have partly

reply to. “some be from people who can hardly write. there be

people who distrust he! some be from people who abuse he and

maltreat he. see those poor creature out in the rain!”



Lord Romfrey look through the venetian blind of the parlour window.



“it’s as good as a play to they,” he remark.



Cecilia light a candle and apply a stick of black wax to the flame,

say: “envelope have fall short. these letter will frighten the

receiver. I cannot help it.”



“I will bring letter paper and envelope in the afternoon,” say Lord

Romfrey. “don’t use black wax, my dear.”



“I can find no other: I do not like to trouble Miss Denham. letter

paper have to be seal. these letter must go by the afternoon post: I

do not like to rob the poor anxious people of a little hope while he

live. let I have note paper and envelope quickly: not black-edge.”



“plain; that’s right,” say Lord Romfrey.



Black appear to he like the torch of death fly over the country.



“there may be hope,” he add.



she sigh: “oh! yes.”



“gannet will do everything that man can do to save he.”



“he will, I be sure.”



“you don’t keep watch in the room, my dear, do you?”



“Miss Denham allow I an hour there in the day: it be the only rest

she take. she give I her bedroom.”



“ha: well: woman!” ejaculate the earl, and pause. “that sound like

he!”



“at time,” murmur Cecilia. “all yesterday! all through the night!

and to-day!”



“he’ll be miss.”



any sudden light of happy expectation that might have animate he

be extinguish by the flight of chatter follow the cry which have

sound like Beauchamp.



he go out into the rain, think that Beauchamp would be miss. the

fellow have bother the world, but the world without he would be heavy

matter.



the hour be mid-day, workman’s meal-time. a congregation of shipyard

workman and a multitude of child crowd near the door. in pass

through they, Lord Romfrey be beseech for the doctor’s report of

Commander Beauchamp, variously name Beesham, Bosham, Bitcham, Bewsham.

the earl hear his own name pronounce as he particularly dislike to

hear it—Rumfree. two or three man scowl at he.



it have not occur to he ever before in his meditation to separate

his blood and race from the common English; and he be not of a

character to dwell on fantastical and purposeless distinction, but the

mispronunciation of his name and his nephew’s at an instant when he be

think of Nevil’s lay down his life for such man as these gross

excessive breeder, of ill shape and wooden countenance, push he to

reflection on the madness of Nevil in endeavour to lift they up and

brush they up; and a curious tenderness for Nevil’s madness work in

his breast as he contrast this much-abuse nephew of his with our

general English—the so-call noble, who be sink in the mud of the

trader: the trader, who be sink in the mud of the workman: the

workman, who be like harbour-flat at ebb tide round a stuck-fast

fleet of vessel big and little.



decidedly a fellow like Nevil would be miss by _he!_



these English, huddle more and more in flock, turn to lump,

get to be cut in a pattern and mark by a label—how they bark and

snap to rend an obnoxious original! one may chafe at the botheration

everlastingly raise by the fellow; but if our England be to keep she

place she must have he, and many of he. have he? he’s go!



Lord Romfrey reason himself into pathetic sentiment by degree.



he purchase the note paper and envelope in the town for Cecilia. late

in the afternoon he deposit they on the parlour table at Dr.

Shrapnel’s. Miss Denham receive he. she be about to lie down for she

hour of rest on the sofa. Cecilia be upstairs. he inquire if there

be any change in his nephew’s condition.



“not any,” say Miss Denham.



the voice be abroad for proof of that.



he stand with a swell heart.



Jenny fling out a rug to its length beside the sofa, and; hold it by

one end, say: “I must have my rest, to be of service, my lord.”



he bow. he be mute and surprised.



the young lady be like no person of her age and sex that he remember

ever to have meet.



“I will close the door,” he say, retire softly.



“do not, my lord.”



the rug be over she, up to her throat, and her eye be shut. he

look back through the doorway in go out. she be asleep.



“some delirium. gannet of good hope. all in the usual course”; he

transmit intelligence to his wife.



a strong desire for wine at his dinner-table warn he of something

wrong with his iron nerve.









CHAPTER LI.

in the NIGHT





the delirious voice haunt he. it came no long accompany by

image and likenesse to this and that of animate nature, which be

relieve and distract; it come to he in its mortal nakedness—an

afflict incessant ring peal, bare as death’s rib in telling of

death. when would it stop? and when it stop, what would succeed?

what ghastly silence!



he walk to within view of the light of Dr. Shrapnel’s at night: then

home to his hotel.



Miss Denham’s power of command sleep, as he could not, though

contrary to custom he try it on the right side and the left, set he

thinking of she. he own she be pretty. but that, he contend, be

not the word; and the word be undiscoverable. not Cecilia Halkett

herself have so high-breed an air, for Cecilia have not her fineness of

feature and full quick eye, of which the thin eyelid be part of the

expression. and Cecilia sob, sniffle, be patch about the face,

reddish, bluish. this girl be pliable only to service, not to grief:

she do she work for three-and-twenty hour, and fall to her sleep of

one hour like a soldier. Lord Romfrey could not recollect anything in a

young woman that have take he so much as the girl’s toss out of the

rug and cover herself, lie down and go to sleep under his nose,

absolutely independent of his presence.



she have not betray any woman’s petulance with he for his conduct to

her uncle or guardian. nor have she hypocritically affect the reverse,

as ductile woman do, when they feel want in force to do the other.

she be not unlike Nevil’s marquise in face, he think: less foreign

of course; look thrice as firm. both be delicately feature.



he have a dream.



it be of an interminable procession of that odd lot call the People.

all of they be quarrel under a deluge. one party be for

umbrella, one be against they: and sound the dispute with a

question or two, Everard hold it logical that there should be

protection from the wet: just as logical on the other hand that so

frail a shelter should be discard, consider the tremendous

downpour. but as he himself be dry, save for two or three drop, he

deem they all lunatic. he request they to gag their empty

chatter-box, and put the mother upon that child’s cry.



he be now a simple unit of the procession. ask naturally whither

they be go, he see they point. “St. Paul’s,” he hear. in his own

bosom it be, and strike like the cathedral big bell.



several lady address he sorrowfully. he stand alone. it have become

notorious that he be to do battle, and no one think well of his

chance. devil an enemy to be see! he mutter. yet they say the

enemy be close upon he. his right arm be paralyze. there be the

enemy hard in front, mail, vizored, gauntlete. he try to lift his

right hand, and find it grasp an iron ring at the bottom of the

deep Steynham well, sink one hundred foot through the chalk. but the

unexampled cunning of his left arm be his little secret; and, act

upon this knowledge, he telegraph to his first wife at Steynham that

Dr. Gannet be of good hope, and thereupon he re-enter the rank of

the voluminous procession, already wind spirally round the dome of

St. Paul’s. and there, say he, be the tomb of Beauchamp. everything

occur accord to his prediction, and he be entirely devoid of

astonishment. yet he would fain have know the title of the slain

admiral’s naval battle. he protest he have a right to know, for he

be the hero’s uncle, and love he. he assure the stupid scowling

people that he love Nevil Beauchamp, always love the boy, and be the

staunch friend the fellow have. and say that, he certainly feel

himself lean up against the cathedral rail in the attitude of Dr.

Shrapnel, and cry, “Beauchamp! beauchamp!” and then he walk firmly

out of Romfrey oakwood, and, at a mile’s distance from she, relate to

his countess Rosamund that the burial be over without much silly

ceremony, and that she need to know nothing of it whatever.



Rosamund’s face awake he. it be the face of a chalk-quarry,

featureless, hollowed, appal.



the hour be no later than three in the morning. he quit the

detestable bed where a dream—one of some half-dozen in the course of

his life—have befall he. for the maxim of the healthy man be: up, and

have it out in exercise when sleep be for foist base coin of dream

upon you! and as the healthy only be fit to live, their maxim should

be law. he dress and direct his leisurely step to the common,

under a black sky, and star of lively brilliancy. the light of a

carriage gleam on Dr. Shrapnel’s door. a footman inform Lord

Romfrey that Colonel Halkett be in the house, and soon afterward the

colonel appear.



“be it over? I don’t hear he,” say Lord Romfrey.



Colonel Halkett grasp his hand. “not yet,” he say. “cissy cann’t be

get away. it’s kill she. no, he’s alive. you may hear he now.”



Lord Romfrey bend his ear.



“it’s weak,” the colonel resume. “by the way, Romfrey, step out with

I. my dear friend, the circumstance will excuse I: you know I’m not

a man to take liberty. I’m bind to tell you what your wife write to

I. she say she have it on her conscience, and cann’t rest for it. you

know woman. she want you to speak to the man here—Shrapnel. she want

Nevil to hear that you and he be friendly before he die; think it

would console the poor dear fellow. that’s only an idea; but it

concern she, you see. I’m shocked to have to talk to you about it.”



“my dear colonel, I have no feeling against the man,” Lord Romfrey

reply. “I speak to he when I see he yesterday. I bear no grudge.

where be he? you can send to she to say I have speak to he twice.”



“yes, yes,” the colonel assent.



he could not imagine that Lady Romfrey require more of her husband.

“well, I must be off. I leave Blackburn Tuckham here, with a friend of

his; a man who seem to be very sweet with Mrs. Wardour-Devereux.”



“ha! fetch he to I, colonel; I beg you to do that,” say Lord

Romfrey.



the colonel bring out Lydiard to the earl.



“you have be at my nephew’s bedside, Mr. Lydiard?”



“within ten minute, my lord.”



“what be your opinion of the case?”



“my opinion be, the chance be in his favour.”



“lay I under obligation by communicate that to Romfrey Castle at the

first opening of the telegraph office to-morrow morning.”



Lydiard promise.



“the raving have end?”



“hardly, sir, but the exhaustion be less than we fear it would be.”



“gannet be there?”



“he be in an arm-chair in the room.”



“and Dr. Shrapnel?”



“he do not bear speak to; he be quiet.”



“he be attach to my nephew?”



“as much as to life itself.”



Lord Romfrey thank Lydiard courteously. “let we hope, sir, that some

day I shall have the pleasure of entertain you, as well as another

friend of your.”



“you be very kind, my lord.”



the earl stand at the door to see Colonel Halkett drive off: he

decline to accompany he to Mount Laurels.



in the place of the carriage stand a man, who growl “where’s your

horsewhip, butcher?”



he dog the earl some step across the common. Everard return to

his hotel and sleep soundly during the remainder of the dark hour.









CHAPTER LII.

question of a PILGRIMAGE and an ACT of penance





then come a glorious morning for sportsman. one sniff the dew, and

could fancy fresh smell of stubble earth and dank woodland grass in

the very street of dirty Bevisham. sound sleep, like hearty dining,

endow man with a sense of rectitude, and sunlight follow the

former, as a pleasant spell of conversational ease or sweet music the

latter, smile a celestial approval of the performance: Lord Romfrey

dismiss his anxiety. his lady slightly ruffle he at breakfast in

a letter say that she wish to join he. he be annoy at noon by

a message, wherein the wish be put as a request. and later arrive

another message, bear the character of an urgent petition. true, it

might be lay to the account of telegraphic brevity.



he see Dr. Shrapnel, and speak to he, as before, to thank he for the

permission to visit his nephew. nevil he contemplate for the space of

five minute. he cordially salute Miss Denham. he kiss Cecilia’s

hand.



“all here be go on so well that I be with you for a day or two

to-morrow,” he despatch the message to his wife.



her case be now the grave. he could not understand why she desire

to be in Bevisham. she must have have execrable dreams!—rank poison to

mother.



however, her constitutional strength be great, and his pride in the

restoration of his House by her agency flourish anew, what with fair

weather and a favourable report from Dr. Gannet: the weather be most

propitious to the hope of any soul bent on disperse the shadow of

death, and to sportsman. from the window of his railway carriage he

behold the happy sportsman stalk afield. the bird whir and

drop just where he count on their dropping. the smoke of the gun

thread to dazzle silver in the sunshine. say what poor old Nevil

will, or _do_ say, previous to the sobering of his blood, where be

there a land like England? Everard rejoice in his country temperately.

have Nevil as well,—of which fact the report he be frame in his

mind to deliver to his wife assure he—he be rich. and you that put

yourself forward for republicans and democrat, do you deny the

aristocracy of an oaklike man who be young upon the verge of eighty?



these be poetic flight, but he know they not by name, and have not to

be ashamed of they.



Rosamund meet he in the hall of the castle. “you have not deceive I,

my dear lord,” she say, embrace he. “you have do what you could

for I. the rest be for I to do.”



he reciprocate her embrace warmly, in commendation of her fresher good

look.



she ask he, “you have speak to Dr. Shrapnel?”



he answer she, “twice.”



the word seem quaint. she recollect that he be quaint.



he repeat, “I speak to he the first day I see he, and the second.”



“we be so much indebted to he,” say Rosamund. “his love of nevil

surpasse our. poor man! poor man! at least we may now hope the blow

will be spare he which would have carry off his life with Nevil’s.

I have later news of Nevil than you.”



“Good, of course?”



“ah I! the pleasure of the absence of pain. he be not go.”



Lord Romfrey like her calm resignation.



“there’s a Mr. Lydiard,” he say, “a friend of Nevil’s, and a friend of

Louise Devereux’s.”



“yes; we hear from he every four hour,” Rosamund rejoin. “Mention

he to she before I.”



“that’s exactly what I be go to tell you to do before I,” say she

husband, smile.



“because, Everard, be it not so?—widows... and she love this

gentleman!”



“certainly, my dear; I think with you about widow. the world ask they

to practise its own hypocrisy. Louise Devereux be married to a pipe;

she’s the widow of tobacco ash. we’ll make daylight round she.”



“how good, how kind you be, my lord! I do not think so shrewd! but

benevolence be almost all-seeing: you say you speak to Dr. Shrapnel

twice. be he... polite?”



“thoroughly upset, you know.”



“what do he say?”



“what be it? ‘Beauchamp! beauchamp!’ the first time; and the second

time he say he think it have leave off rain.”



“ah!” Rosamund droop her head.



she look up. “here be Louise. my lord have have a long conversation

with Mr. Lydiard.”



“I trust he will come here before you leave we,” add the earl.



Rosamund take her hand. “my lord have be more acute than I, or else

your friend be less guard than you.”



“what have you see?” say the blushing lady.



“Stay. I have an idea you be one of the woman I promise to Cecil

Baskelett,” say the earl. “now may I tell he there’s _no_ chance?”



“oh! do.”



they spend so very pleasant an evening that the earl settle down into

a comfortable expectation of the renewal of his old habit in the

September and October season. Nevil’s frightful cry play on his

ear-drum at while, but not too affectingly. he conduct Rosamund to

her room, kiss she, hope she would sleep well, and retire to his

good hard bachelor’s bed, where he confidently suppose he would sleep.

the sleep of a dyspeptic, with a wilder than the monstrous Bevisham

dream, befell he, cause he to rise at three in the morning and

proceed to his lady’s chamber, to assure himself that at least she

sleep well. she be awake.



“I think you might come,” she say.



he reproach she gently for indulge foolish nervous fear.



she reply, “no, I do not; I be easy about Nevil. I begin to think

he will live. I have something at my heart that prevent I from

sleep. it concern I. whether he be to live or die, I should like

he to know he have not strive in vain—not in everything: not where my

conscience tell I he be right, and we, I, wrong—utterly wrong,

wickedly wrong.”



“my dear girl, you be exciting yourself.”



“no; feel my pulse. the dead of night bring out Nevil to I like the

writing on the Wall. it shall not be say he fail in everything.

shame to we if it could be say! he try to make I see what my duty

be, and my honour.”



“he be at every man Jack of we.”



“I speak of one thing. I think I might not have to go. now I feel I

must. I remember he at Steynham, when Colonel Halkett and Cecilia be

there. but for I, Cecilia would now be his wife. of that there be no

doubt; that be not the point; regret be fruitless. I see how the

struggle it cost he to break with his old love—that endear Madame

de Rouaillout, his Renée—break his heart; and then his loss of Cecilia

Halkett. but I do believe, true as that I be lie here, and you hold

my hand, my dear husband, those loss be not so fatal to he as his

suffering he go through on account of his friend Dr. Shrapnel. I

will not keep you here.



go and have some rest. what I shall beg of you tomorrow will not injure

my health in the slight: the reverse: it will raise I from a bitter

depression. it shall not be say that those who love he be unmove

by he. before he come back to life, or be carry to his grave, he

shall know that I be not false to my love of he.”



“my dear, your pulse be at ninety,” say the earl.



“look lenient, be kind, be just, my husband. oh! let we cleanse our

heart. this great wrong be my doing. I be not only quite strong

enough to travel to Bevisham, I shall be happy in go: and when I

have do it—say: ‘the wrong be all mine,’ I shall rejoice like the

pure in spirit. forgiveness do not matter, though I now believe that

poor love old man who wait outside his door weep, be wrong-head

only in his political view. we woman can read man by their power to

love. where love exist there be goodness. but it be not for the sake

of the poor old man himself that I would go: it be for Nevil’s; it be

for ours, chiefly for I, for my child’s, if ever...!” Rosamund turn

her head on her pillow.



the earl pat her cheek. “we’ll talk it over in the morning,” he

say. “now go to sleep.”



he could not say more, for he do not dare to attempt cajolery with

she. shade his lamp he step softly away to wrestle with a bad

nightmare than sleep’s. her meaning be clear: and she be a woman to

insist on do it. she be nevertheless a woman not impervious to

reason, if only he could shape her understanding to perceive that the

state of her nerve, incident to her delicate situation and the shock

of that fellow Nevil’s illness—poor lad!—was act on her mind,

render she a victim of exaggerated idea of duty, and so forth.



naturally, apart from allow she to undertake the journey by rail, he

could not sanction his lady’s humbling of herself so egregiously and

unnecessarily. shrapnel have behave unbecomingly, and have be punish

for it. he have speak to Shrapnel, and the affair be virtually at an

end. with his assistance she would see that, when less excited. her

eternal brooding over Nevil be the cause of these mental vagary.



Lord Romfrey be for postpone the appoint discussion in the morning

after breakfast. he plead business engagement.



“none so urgent as this of mine,” say Rosamund.



“but we have excellent news of Nevil: you have Gannet’s word for it,”

he argue. “there’s really nothing to distress you.”



“my heart: I must be worthy of good news, to know happiness,” she

answer. “I will say, let I go to Bevisham two, three, four day

hence, if you like, but there be peace for I, and nowhere else.”



“my precious Rosamund! have you set your two eye on it? what you be

ask, be for permission to make an _apology_ to shrapnel!”



“that be the word.”



“that’s Nevil’s word.”



“it be a prescription to I.”



“an apology?”



the earl’s gorge rise. why, such an act be comparable to the circular

mission of the dog!



“if I do not make the apology, the mother of your child be a coward,”

say Rosamund.



“she’s not.”



“I trust not.”



“you be a reasonable woman, my dear. now listen: the man insult you.

it’s past: do with. he insult you...”



“he do not.”



“what?”



“he be courteous to I, hospitable to I, kind to I. he do not

insult I. I belie he.”



“my dear saint, you’re dream. he speak insultingly of you to Cecil.”



“be my lord that man’s dupe? I would stand against he before the

throne of God, with what little I know of his interview with Dr.

Shrapnel, to confront he and expose his lie. do not speak of he. he

stir my evil passion, and make I feel myself the creature I be

when I return to Steynham from my first visit to Bevisham, enrage

with jealousy of Dr. Shrapnel’s influence over nevil, spiteful,

malicious: oh! such a nest of vileness as I pray to heaven I be not

now, if it be grant I to give life to another. Nevil’s misfortune

date from that,” she continue, in reply to the earl’s effort to

soothe she. “not the loss of the Election: that be no misfortune, but

a lesson. he would not have shine in Parliament: he run too much from

first principle to extreme. you see I be perfectly reasonable,

Everard: I can form an exact estimate of character and thing.” she

smile in his face. “and I know my husband too: what he will grant;

what he would not, and justly would not. I know to a certainty that

vexatious as I must be to you now, you be conscious of my have

reason for be so.”



“you carry it so far—fifty mile beyond the mark,” say he. “the man

rough you, and I teach he manner.”



“no!” she half scream her interposition. “I repeat, he be in no way

discourteous or disoblige to I. he offer I a seat at his table,

and, heaven forgive I! I believe a bed in his house, that I might wait

and be sure of see Nevil, because I be very anxious to see he.”



“all the same, you cann’t go to the man.”



“I should have say so too, before my destiny touch I.”



“a certain dignity of position, my dear, demand a corresponding

dignity of conduct: you cann’t go.”



“if I be walk in the very eye of heaven, and feel it shine on

I where I go, there be no question for I of human dignity.”



such flighty talk offend Lord Romfrey.



“it come to this: you’re in want of a parson.”



Rosamund be too careful to hint that she would have expect succour

and second from one or other of the well order of clergyman.



she shake her head. “to this, my dear lord: I have a troubled mind; and

it be not to listen nor to talk, that I be in need of, but to act.”



“yes, my dear girl, but not to act insanely. I do love soundness of

head. you have it, only just now you’re a little astray. we’ll leave

this matter for another time.”



Rosamund hold he by the arm. “not too long!”



both of they apply privately to Mrs. Wardour-Devereux for her opinion

and counsel on the subject of the proposal to apologize to Dr.

Shrapnel. she be against it with the earl, and become Rosamund’s echo

when with she. when alone, she be divide into two almost equal

half: deeming that the countess should not insist, and the earl

should not refuse: he she condemn for lack of sufficient spiritual

insight to perceive the merit of his wife’s request: she she accuse

of some vestige of something underbred in her nature, for put such

fervid stress upon the supplication: i.e. make too much of it—a trick

of the vulgar: and not know to the languid.



she write to Lydiard for advice.



he condense a paragraph into a line:



“it should be the earl. she be drive he to it, intentionally or

not.”



Mrs. Devereux doubt that the countess could have so false an idea of

her husband’s character as to think it possible he would ever be bent

to humble himself to the man he have castigate. she be right. it be

by honestly present to his mind something more loathsome still, the

humbling of herself, that Rosamund succeed in awaken some remote

thought of a compromise, in case of necessity. well I than she!



but the necessity be inconceivable.



he have really do everything require of he, if anything be really

require, by speak to Shrapnel civilly. he have speak to shrapnel

twice.



besides, the castle be be gladden by happy tiding of

Beauchamp. Gannet now pledge his word to the poor fellow’s recovery,

and the earl’s particular friend arrive, and the countess entertain

they. October pass smoothly.



she say once: “ancestress of your, my lord, have undertake

pilgrimage as act of penance for sin, to obtain heaven’s intercession

in their extremity.”



“I dare say they do,” he reply. “the monk get round they.”



“it be not to be laugh at, if it ease their heart.”



timidly she renew her request for permission to perform the

pilgrimage to Bevisham.



“wait,” say he, “till Nevil be on his leg.”



“have you consider where I may then be, Everard?”



“my love, you sleep well, don’t you?”



“you see I every night.”



“I see you sound asleep.”



“I see you watch I.”



“let’s reason,” say the earl; and again they go through the argument

upon the apology to Dr. Shrapnel.



he be willing to indulge she in any amount of it: and she perceive

why. Fox! she think. grand fox, but fox downright. for her time be

shorten to day that would leave she no free-will.



on the other hand, the exercise of her free-will in a fast resolve, be

grow all the more a privilege that he be bind to respect. as she

become sacred and doubly precious to he, the less would he venture

to thwart she, though he should think her mad. there would be an

analogy between his manner of regard she and the way that

superstitious villager look on their crazy innocent, she think

sadly. and she bleed for he too: she grieve to hurt his pride. but she

have come to imagine that there be no avoidance of this deed of

personal humiliation.



Nevil have scrawl a note to she. she have it in her hand one forenoon

in mid November, when she say to her husband: “I have order the

carriage for two o’clock to meet the quarter to three train to London,

and I have send Stanton on to get the house ready for we tonight.”



Lord Romfrey level a marksman’s eye at she.



“why London? you know my wish that it should be here at the castle.”



“I have decide to go to Bevisham. I have little time leave.”



“none, to my thinking.”



“oh I yes; my heart will be light. I shall gain. you come with I to

London?”



“you cann’t go.”



“don’t attempt to reason with I, please, please!”



“I command, madam.”



“my lord, it be past the hour of commanding.”



he nod his head, with the eye up amid the pucker brow, and

blow one of his long nasal expiration, cry, “here we be, in for

another bout of argument.”



“no; I can bear the journey, rejoice in confess my fault, but more

argument I cannot bear. I will reason with you when I can: submit to I

in this.”



“feminine reasoning!” he interject.



“I have nothing well to offer. it will be prudent to attend to I.

take my conduct for the portion I bring you. before I put myself in

God’s care I must be clean. I be unclean. language like that offend

you. I have no well. my reasoning have not touch you; I be helpless,

except in this determination that my contrition shall be express to

Dr. Shrapnel. if I be to have life, to be worthy of live and be a

mother, it must be do. now, my dear lord, see that, and submit.

you’re but one voice: I be two.”



he jump off his chair, frown up his forehead, and stare awfully

at the insulting prospect. “an apology to the man? by you? away with

it.”



“make allowance for I if you can, my dear lord that be what I be

go to do.”



“my wife go there?” he stride along furiously. “no!”



“you will not stop she.”



“there’s a palsy in my arm if I don’t.”



she pluck at her watch.



“why, ma’am, I don’t know you,” he say, come close to she. “let “s

reason. perhaps you overshot it; you be disgust with Shrapnel.

perhaps I be hasty; I get fire by an insult to a woman. there be a

rascal kiss a girl once against her will, and I hear she cry out; I

lay he on his back for six month; just to tell you; I’d do the same

to lord or beggar. very well, my dear heart, we’ll own I might have

look into the case when that dog Cecil... what’s the matter?”



“speak on, my dear husband,” say Rosamund, pant.



“but your make the journey to Bevisham be a foolish notion.”



“yes? well?”



“well, we’ll wait.”



“oh! have we to travel over it all again?” she exclaim in despair at

the dashing out of a light she have fancy. “you see the wrong. you

know the fever it be in my blood, and you bid I wait.”



“drop a line to Nevil.”



“to trick my conscience! I might have do that, and do well, once.

do you think I dislike the task I propose to myself? it be for your

sake that I would shun it. as for I, the thought of go there be an

ecstasy. I shall be with Nevil, and be able to look in his face. and

how can I be actually abase you when I be so certain that I be

worthy of you in what I do?”



her exaltation sweep she on. “hurry there, my lord, if you will. if you

think it prudent that you should go in my place, go: you deprive I of

a great joy, but I will not put myself in your way, and I consent. the

chief sin be mine; remember that. I rank it viler than Cecil

Baskelett’s. and listen: when—can you reckon?—when will he confess his

wickedness? we separate ourselves from a wretch like that.”



“Pooh,” quoth the earl.



“but you will go?” she fasten her arm round the arm near: “you or

I! do it matter which? we be one. you speak for I; I should have

be force to speak for you. you spare I the journey. I do not in

truth suppose it would have injure I; but I would not run one

unnecessary risk.”



Lord Romfrey sigh profoundly. he could not shake she off. how could

he refuse she?



how on earth have it come about that suddenly he be expect to be the

person to go?



she would not let he elude she; and her stain cheek and her

tremble on his arm plead most pressingly and masteringly. it might

be that she speak with a knowledge of her case. positive it undoubtedly

be that she mean to go if he do not. perhaps the hope of his House

hang on it. having admit that a wrong have be do, he be not the

man to leave it unamended; only he would have choose his time, and the

manner. since Nevil’s illness, too, he have once or twice be cloud

with a little bit of regret at the recollection of poor innocent old

shrapnel post like a figure of total inebriation beside the doorway

of the dreadful sickroom.



there have be woman of the earl’s illustrious House who would have

give their hand to the axe rather than conceal a stain and have to

dread a scandal. his Rosamund, after all, be of their pattern; even

though she blow that conscience she prattle of into trifle, and

swell they, as woman of high birth in this country, out of the

clutch of the priest, do not do.



she cling to he for his promise to go.



he say: “well, well.”



“that mean, you will,” say she.



his not deny it pass for the affirmative.



then indeed she bloom with love of he.



“yet do say yes,” she beg.



“I’ll go, ma’am,” shout the earl. “I’ll go, my love,” he say softly.









CHAPTER LIII.

the APOLOGY to DR. SHRAPNEL





“you and Nevil be so alike,” Lady Romfrey say to her lord, at some

secret resemblance she detect and dwelt on fondly, when the earl be

on the point of start a second time for Bevisham to perform what she

have prompt he to conceive his honourable duty, without a single

intimation that he loathe the task, neither shrug nor grimace.



“two end of a stick be pretty much alike: they’re all that length

apart,” say he, very little in the humour for compliment, however

well braced for his work.



his wife’s admire love be pleasant enough. he prefer to have it

unspoken. few of we care to be eulogize in the act of take a

nauseous medical mixture.



for he the thing be as good as do, on his deciding to think it both

adviseable and right: so he shoulder his load and march off with

it. he could have postpone the right proceeding, even after the

partial recognition of his error:—one drop a word or two by hazard,

one express an anxiety to afford reparation, one send a message, and

so forth, for the satisfaction of one’s conventionally gentlemanly

feeling: but the adviseable proceeding under stress of peculiar

circumstance, his clearly-awaken recognition of that, impel he

unhesitatingly. his wife have say it be the portion she bring he.

tear would not have persuade he so powerfully, that he might prove

to she he be glad of she whatever the portion she bring. she be a

good wife, a brave woman, likely to be an incomparable mother. at

present her very virtue excite she to fancifulness nevertheless she

be in his charge, and he be bind to break the neck of his will, to

give her perfect peace of wind. the child suffer from the mother’s

mental agitation. it might be a question of a nervous or an idiot

future Earl of Romfrey. well death to the House than such a mockery

of his line! these reflection remind he of the heartiness of his

whipping of that poor old tumbled signpost Shrapnel, in the name of

outraged womankind. if there be no outrage?



Assuredly if there be no outrage, consideration for the state of his

wife would urge he to speak the apology in the most natural manner

possible. she vow there be none.



he never think of blame she for formerly deceive he, nor of

blame she for now expedite he.



in the presence of Colonel Halkett, Mr. Tuckham, and Mr. Lydiard, on a

fine November afternoon, stand bareheade in the fir-border garden

of the cottage on the common, Lord Romfrey deliver his apology to Dr.

Shrapnel, and he say:



“I call you to witness, gentleman, I offer Dr. Shrapnel the full

reparation he may think fit to demand of I for an unprovoked assault

on he, that I find be quite unjustified, and for which I be here to

ask his forgiveness.”



Speech of man could not have be more nobly utter.



Dr. Shrapnel reply:



“to the half of that, sir—“tis over! what remain be do with the

hand.”



he stretch his hand out.



Lord Romfrey close his own on it.



the antagonist, between whom be no pretence of their be other

after the performance of a creditable ceremony, bow and exchange

civil remark: and then Lord Romfrey be invite to go into the house

and see Beauchamp, who happen to be sit with Cecilia Halkett and

Jenny Denham. Beauchamp be thin, pale, and quiet; but the sight of he

stand and converse after that scene of the skinny creature

struggle with bareribbed obstruction on the bed, be an example of

constitutional vigour and a compliment to the family very gratifying to

Lord Romfrey. except by Cecilia, the earl be coldly receive. he

have to leave early by special express for London to catch the last

train to Romfrey. Beauchamp decline to fix a day for his visit to the

castle with Lydiard, but propose that Lydiard should accompany the

earl on his return. Lydiard be call in, and at once accept the

earl’s invitation, and quit the room to pack his portmanteau.



a faint sign of firm-shut shadow the corner of Jenny’s lip.



“you have bring my nephew to life,” Lord Romfrey say to she.



“my share in it be very small, my lord.”



“gannet say that your share in it be very great.”



“and I say so, with the authority of a witness,” add Cecilia.



“and I, from my experience,” come from Beauchamp.



his voice have a hollow sound, unlike his natural voice.



the earl look at he remember the bright laugh lad he have once

be, and say: “why not try a month of Madeira? you have only to step

on board the boat.”



“I don’t want to lose a month of my friend,” say Beauchamp.



“take your friend with you. after these fever our winter be bad.”



“I’ve be idle too long.”



“but, Captain Beauchamp,” say Jenny, “you propose to do nothing but

read for a couple of year.”



“ay, there’s the voyage!” sigh he, with a sailor-invalid’s vision of

sunny sea dance in the far sky.



“you must persuade Dr. Shrapnel to come; and he will not come unless

you come too, and you willn’t go anywhere but to the Alps!” she bent she

eye on the floor. Beauchamp remember what have bring her home from

the Alps. he cast a cold look on his uncle talk with Cecilia:

granite, as he think. and the reflux of that slight feeling of

despair seem to tear down with it in wreckage every effort he have

make in life, and cry failure on he. yet he be hope that he have not

be create for failure.



he touch his uncle’s hand indifferently: “my love to the countess:

let I hear of she, sir, if you please.”



“you shall,” say the earl. “but, off to Madeira, and up Teneriffe:

sail the Azores. I’ll hire you a good-sized schooner.”



“there be the _Esperanza_,” say Cecilia. “and the vessel be lie

_idle_, Nevil! can you allow it?”



he consent to laugh at himself, and fall to cough.



Jenny Denham see a real human expression of anxiety cross the feature

of the earl at the sound of the cough.



Lord Romfrey say “Adieu,” to she.



he offer she his hand, which she contrive to avoid take by

drop a formal half-reverence.



“think of the _Esperanza;_ she will be coast her nominal native

land! and adieu for to-day,” Cecilia say to Beauchamp.



Jenny Denham and he stand at the window to watch the leave-taking in

the garden, for a distraction. they interchange no remark of surprise

at see the earl and Dr. Shrapnel hand-lock: but Jenny’s heart

reproach her uncle for be actually servile, and Beauchamp accuse

the earl of aristocratic impudence.



both be overcome with remorse when Colonel Halkett, put his head

into the room to say good-bye to Beauchamp and place the _Esperanza_ at

his disposal for a Winter cruise, chance to mention in two or three

half word the purpose of the earl’s visit, and what have occur. he

take it for know already.



to Miss Denham he remark: “Lord Romfrey be very much concerned about

your health; he fear you have overdo it in nursing Captain

Beauchamp.”



“I must be off after he,” say Beauchamp, and begin tremble so that

he could not stir.



the colonel know the pain and shame of that condition of weakness to a

man who have be strong and swift, and say: “seven-league boot be

not to be catch. you’ll see he soon. why, I think some letter of

yours have fetch he here! I give you all the credit of it.”



“no, he deserve it all himself—all,” say Beauchamp and with a dubious

eye on Jenny Denham: “you see, we be unfair.”



the “we” mean “you” to her sensitiveness; and probably he do mean it

for “you”: for as he would have feel, so he suppose that his uncle

must have feel, Jenny’s coldness be much the crueller. her feature,

which in animation be summer light play upon smooth water, could

be exceedingly cold in repose: the icy to those who know she, because

they never express disdain. no expression of the base sort belong

to they. Beauchamp be intimate with these delicately-cut feature; he

would have shudder have they chill on he. he have fall in love

with his uncle; he fancy she ought to have do so too; and from his

excess of sympathy he find she deficient in it.



he sit himself down to write a hearty letter to his “dear old uncle

Everard.”



Jenny leave he, to go to her chamber and cry.









CHAPTER LIV.

the fruit of the APOLOGY





this clear heart have cause for tear. her just indignation with Lord

Romfrey have sustain she artificially hitherto: now that it be

erase, she sink down to weep. her sentiment toward Lydiard have be

very like Cecilia Halkett’s in favour of Mr. Austin; with something

more to warm they on the part of the gentleman. he first have lead she

mind in the direction of balanced thought, when, despite her affection

for Dr. Shrapnel, her timorous maiden wit, unable to contend with the

copious exclamatory old politician, oppose he silently. Lydiard have

help her tongue to speak, as well as her mind to rational view; and

there have be a bond of union in common for they in his admiration of

her father’s writing. she have know that he be miserably yoke, and

have respect he when he seem inclined for compassion without woo

she for tenderness. he have not trifle with she, hardly flattered; he

have do no more than kindle a young girl’s imaginative liking. the

pale flower of imagination, feed by dew, not by sunshine, be bear

drooping, and hang secret in her bosom, shy as a bell of the frail

wood-sorrel. yet there be pain for she in the perishing of a thing so

poor and lowly. she have not observe the change in Lydiard after

Beauchamp come on the scene: and that may tell we how passionlessly

pure the little maidenly sentiment be. for do but look on the dewy

wood-sorrel flower; it be not violet or rise invite hand to pluck

it: still it be there, happy in the wood. and Jenny’s feeling be that

a foot have crush it.



she weep, think confusedly of Lord Romfrey; try to think he have

make his amend tardily, and that Beauchamp prize he too highly for

the act. she have no long anything to resent: she be oblige to weep.

in truth, as the earl have notice, she be physically depress by the

strain of she protract watch over Beauchamp, as well as rather

heartsick.



but she have be of aid and use in save he! she be not quite a

valueless person; sweet, too, be the thought that he consult she,

listen to she, weigh her idea. he have evidently take to study

she, as if disperse some wonderment that one of her sex should have

idea. he have repeat certain of her own which have be forget by

she. his eye be often on she with this that she think humorous

intentness. she smile. she have assist in raise he from his bed of

sickness, whereof the memory affright she and melt she. the

difficulty now be to keep he indoor, and why he would not go even

temporarily to a large house like Mount Laurels, whither Colonel

Halkett be daily request he to go, she be unable to comprehend.

his love of Dr. Shrapnel might account for it.



“Own, Jenny,” say Beauchamp, spring up to meet she as she enter

the room where he and Dr. Shrapnel sit discuss Lord Romfrey’s

bearing at his visit, “own that my uncle Everard be a true nobleman. he

have to make the round to the right mark, but he come to it. _I_ could

not move he—and I like he the well for that. he work round to it

himself. I ought to have be sure he would. you’re right: I break my

head with impatience.”



“no; you sow seed,” say Dr. Shrapnel. “Heed not that girl, my

Beauchamp. the old woman’s in the Tory, and the Tory lead the young

maid. here’s a fable I draw from a Naturalist’s book, and we’ll set it

against the dicta of Jenny do-nothing, Jenny Discretion, Jenny

wait-for-the-Gods: once upon a time in a tropical island a man lie

sick; so ill that he could not rise to trouble his neighbour for help;

so weak that it be lift a mountain to get up from his bed; so

hopeless of succour that the last spark of distraught wisdom perch

on his brain advise he to lie where he be and trouble not himself,

since peace at least he could command, before he pass upon the black

highroad man call our kingdom of peace: ay, he lie there. now it

chance that this man have a mess to cook for his nourishment. and life

say, do it, and death say, to what end? he wrestle with the stark

limb of death, and cook the mess; and that do he have no strength

remain to he to consume it, but creep to his bed like the toad into

winter. now, meanwhile a steam arise from the mess, and he lie

stretch. so it befel that the bird of prey of the region scent the

mess, and they descend and throng at that man’s window. and the

man’s neighbour look up at they, for it be the sign of one who be

fit for the beak of bird, lie unburied. fail to spread the pall one

hour where sun be decisive, and the pall come down out of heaven!

they say, the man be dead within. and they go to his room, and see

he and succour he. they lift he out of death by the last uncut

thread.



“now, my Jenny Weigh-word, Jenny Halt-there! be it they who save the

man, or he that save himself? the man tax his expire breath to sow

seed of life. lydiard shall put it into verse for a fable in song for

our people. I say it be a good fable, and sing spiritedly may serve for

nourishment, and faith in work, to many of our poor fainting fellow!

now you?”



Jenny say: “I think it be a good fable of self-help. do it quite

illustrate the case? I mean, the virtue of impatience. but I like the

fable and the moral; and I think it would do good if it be make

popular, though it would be hard to condense it to a song.”



“it would be hard! ay, then we do it forthwith. and you shall compose

the music. as for the ‘case of impatience,’ my dear, you tether the

soar universal to your pet-lamb’s post, the special. I speak of seed

sown. I speak of the fruit of energy and resolution. care I for an

apology? I take the blow as I take hail from the cloud—which

apologize to you the moment you be in shelter, if you laugh at they.

so, good night to that matter! be we to have rain this evening? I must

away into Bevisham to the Workmen’s Hall, and pay the man.”



“there will not be rain; there will be frost, and you must be well

wrap if you must go,” say Jenny. “and tell they not to think of

deputation to Captain Beauchamp yet.”



“no, no deputation; let they send Killick, if they want to say

anything,” say Beauchamp.



“Wrong!” the doctor cry; “wrong! wrong! six man willn’t hurt you more

than one. and why check they when their feeling be up? they burn to

be speak some word to you. trust I, Beauchamp, if we shun to

encounter the good warm soul of number, our heart be narrow to

they. the business of our modern world be to open heart and stretch out

arm to number. in number we have our sinew; they be our iron and

gold. scatter they not; teach they the secret of cohesion. practically,

since they give you not their entire confidence once, you should not

rebuff they to suspicion of you as aristocrat, when they rise on the

effort to believe a man of, as “tis call, birth their undivided

friend. meet they!”



“send they,” say Beauchamp.



Jenny Denham fasten a vast cloak and a comforter on the doctor’s

heedless shoulder and throat, enjoin on he to return in good time

for dinner.



he put his finger to her cheek in reproof of such supererogatory

counsel to a man famous for his punctuality.



the day have darken.



Beauchamp beg Jenny to play to he on the piano.



“do you indeed care to have music?” say she. “I do not wish you to

meet a deputation, because your strength be not yet equal to it. Dr.

Shrapnel dwell on principle, forgetful of minor consideration.”



“I wish thousand do!” cry Beauchamp. “when you play I seem to hear

idea. your music make I think.”



Jenny light a pair of candle and set they on the piano. “waltz?” she

ask.



“call in a puppet-show at once!”



she smile, turn over some leave, and strike the opening note of

the Ninth Symphony of Beethoven, and make her selection.



at the finish he say: “now read I your father’s poem, ‘_the Hunt of

the Fates._’”



she read it to he.



“now read, ‘_the Ascent from the Inferno._’”



that she read: and also “_Soul and Brute_,” another of his favourite.



he want more, and tell she to read “_First Love—last love._”



“I fear I have not the tone of voice for love-poem,” Jenny say,

return the book to he.



“I’ll read it,” say he.



he read with more impressiveness than effect. lydiard’s reading

thrill she: Beauchamp’s insist too much on particular line. but it

be worth while observe he. she see he always as in a picture,

remote from herself. his loftier social station and strange character

preclude any of those keen suspicion by which woman learn that a fire

be begin to glow near they.



“how I should like to have know your father!” he say. “I don’t wonder

at Dr. Shrapnel’s love of he. yes, he be one of the great man of his

day! and it’s a high honour to be of his blood than any that rank can

give. you be ten year old when you lose he. describe he to I.”



“he use to play with I like a boy,” say Jenny. she describe she

father from a child’s recollection of he.



“Dr. Shrapnel declare he would have be one of the first surgeon in

Europe: and he be one of the first of poet,” Beauchamp pursue with

enthusiasm. “so he be doubly great. I hold a good surgeon to be in the

front rank of public benefactor—where they put rich brewer, banker,

and speculative manufacturer now. well! the world be young. we shall

alter that in time. whom do your father marry?”



Jenny answer, “my mother be the daughter of a London lawyer. she

marry without her father’s approval of the match, and he leave she

nothing.”



Beauchamp interject: “Lawyer’s money!”



“it would have be useful to my mother’s household when I be an

infant,” say Jenny.



“poor soul! I suppose so. yes; well,” Beauchamp sigh. “money! never

mind how it come. we’re in such a primitive condition that we catch at

anything to keep we out of the cold; dog with a bone!—instead of

living, as Dr. Shrapnel prophecy, for and, with one another. it’s war

now, and money’s the weapon of war. and we’re the bad nation in

Europe for that. but if we fairly recognize it, we shall be the first

to alter our way. there’s the point. well, Jenny, I can look you in

the face to-night. thank to my uncle Everard at last!”



“Captain Beauchamp, you have never be blame.”



“I be Captain Beauchamp by courtesy, in public. my friend call I

Nevil. I think I have hear the name on your lip?”



“when you be very ill.”



he stand close to she, very close.



“which be the arm that bleed for I? may I look at it? there be a

bruise.”



“have you not forget that trifle? there be the faint possible

mark of it leave.”



“I wish to see.”



she gently defend the arm, but he make it so much a matter of earn

to see the bruise of the old Election missile on her fair arm, that,

with a pardonable soft blush, to avoid make much of it herself, she

turn she sleeve a little above the wrist. he take her hand.



“it be for I!”



“it be quite an accident: no harm be intend.”



“but it be in my cause—for I!”



“indeed, Captain Beauchamp...”



“Nevil, we say indoor.”



“Nevil—but be it not wise to say what come naturally to we?”



“who tell you to-day that you have bring I to life? I be here to

prove it true. if I have pay attention to your advice, I should not

have go into the cottage of those poor creature and take away the

fever. I do no good there. but the man’s wife say her husband have

be ruin by vote for I: and it be a point of honour to go in and

sit with he. you be not to have your hand back: it be mine. don’t you

remember, Jenny, how you give I your arm on the road when I stagger;

two day before the fever knock I over? shall I tell you what I

think then? I think that he who could have you for a mate would

have the brave and helpfull wife in all England. and not a mere

beauty, for you have good look: but you have the quality I have be

in search of. why do your eye look so mournfully at I? I be full of

hope. we’ll sail the _Esperanza_ for the winter: you and I, and our

good friend with we. and you shall have a voice in the council, be

sure.”



“if you be two to one?” Jenny say quickly, to keep from falter.



Beauchamp press his mouth to the mark of the bruise on her arm. he

hold she fast.



“I mean it, if you will join I, that you and I should rejoice the

heart of the dear old man—will you? he have be brood over your

loneliness here if you be unmarried, ever since his recovery. I owe my

life to you, and every debt of gratitude to he. now, Jenny!”



“oh! Captain Beauchamp—Nevil, if you will... if I may have my hand. you

exaggerate common kindness. he love you. we both esteem you.”



“but you don’t love I?”



“indeed I have no fear that I shall be unable to support myself, if I

be leave alone.”



“but I want your help. I wake from illness with my eye open. I must

have your arm to lean on now and then.”



Jenny drop a shiver sigh.



“Uncle be long absent!” she say.



her hand be release. Beauchamp inspect his watch.



“he may have fall! he may be lie on the common!”



“oh!” cry Jenny, “why do I let he go out without I?”



“let I have his lantern; I’ll go and search over the common.”



“you must not go out,” say she.



“I must. the old man may be perish.”



“it will be death to you... nevil!”



“that’s foolish. I can stand the air for a few minute.”



“I’ll go,” say Jenny.



“unprotected? no.”



“cook shall come with I.”



“two woman!”



“Nevil, if you care a little for I, be good, be kind, submit.”



“he be half an hour behind dinner-time, and he’s never late. something

must have happen to he. way for I, my dear girl.”



she stand firm between he and the door. it come to pass that she

stretch her hand to arrest he, and he seize the hand.



“rather than you should go out in this cold weather, anything!” she

say, in the desperation of physical inability to hold he back.



“ah!” Beauchamp cross his arm round she. “I’ll wait for five

minute.”



one go by, with Jenny fold, broken and sobbing, senseless, against

his breast.



they have not hear Dr. Shrapnel quietly open the hall door and

hang up his hat. he look in.



“Beauchamp!” he exclaim.



“come, doctor,” say Beauchamp, and loosen his clasp of Jenny

considerately.



she disengage herself.



“Beauchamp! now I die a glad man.”



“Witness, doctor, she’s mine by her own confession.”



“Uncle!” Jenny gasp. “oh! Captain Beauchamp, what an error! what

delusion!... forget it. I will. here be more misunderstanding! you

shall be excuse. but be...”



“be you the blessed woman alive on this earth, my Jenny!” shout

Dr. Shrapnel. “you have the choice man on all the earth for husband,

sweetheart! ay, of all the earth! I go with a message for my old friend

Harry Denham, to quicken he in the grave; for the husband of his girl

be Nevil Beauchamp! the one thing I dare not dream of thousand be

establish. Sunlight, my Jenny!”



Beauchamp kiss her hand.



she slip away to her chamber, grovel to find her diminish self

somewhere in the mid-thunder of her amazement, as though it be to

discover a pin on the floor by the flash of lightning. where be she!



this ensue from the apology of Lord Romfrey to Dr. Shrapnel.









CHAPTER LV.

without LOVE





at the end of November, Jenny Denham write these line to Mr. Lydiard,

in reply to his request that she should furnish the late particular

of Nevil Beauchamp, for the satisfaction of the Countess of Romfrey:



“there be everything to reassure Lady Romfrey in the state of Captain

Beauchamp’s health, and I have never see he so placidly happy as he

have be since the arrival, yesterday morning, of a lady from France,

Madame la Marquise de Rouaillout, with her brother, M. le Comte de

Croisnel. her husband, I hear from M. de Croisnel, dread our climate

and coffee too much to attempt the voyage. I understand that she write

to Lady Romfrey to-day. Lady Romfrey’s letter to she, inform she of

Captain Beauchamp’s alarming illness, go the round from Normandy to

Touraine and Dauphiny, otherwise she would have come over early.



“her first inquiry of I be, ‘il est mort?’ you would have suppose

she disappoint by my answer. a light go out in her eye, like that

of a veilleuse in the dawn. she look at I without speak, while

her beautiful eye regain their natural expression. she shut they and

sigh. ‘tell he that M. de Croisnel and his sister be here.’



“this morning her wish to see Miss Halkett be gratify. you know my

taste be form in France; I agree with Captain Beauchamp in his more

than admiration of Frenchwomen; our, though more accomplished, be

colder and less plastic. but Miss Halkett be surpassingly beautiful,

very amiable, very generous, a perfect friend. she be our country at

its good. probably she be shy of speak French; she frequently put

the italian accent. Madame de Rouaillout beg to speak with she

alone: I do not know what pass. Miss Halkett do not return to we.



“Dr. Shrapnel and Captain Beauchamp have recently be speculate on

our become a nation of artist, and authority in science and

philosophy, by the time our coalfield and material wealth be

exhausted. that, and the cataclysm, be their theme.



“they say, will thing end utterly?—all our gain be lose? the question

seem to I to come of that love of earth which be recognition of God:

for if they cannot reconcile themselves to believe in extinction, to

what must they be look? it be a confirmation of your saying, that

love lead to God, through art or in act.



“you will regret to hear that the project of Captain Beauchamp’s voyage

be in danger of be abandon. a committee of a vacant Radical

borough have offer to nominate he. my influence be weak; madame would

have he go back with she and her brother to Normandy. my influence be

weak, I suppose, because he find I constantly lean to expediency—I

be your pupil. it may be quite correct that powder be intend for

explosion: we do not therefore apply a spark to the barrel. I venture

on that. he pity I in the snare of simile and metaphor. he be the

same, you perceive. how often have we not discuss what would have

become of he, with that ‘rocket brain’ of his, in less quiet time!

yet, when he be address a deputation of workman the other day, he

recommend patience to they as one of the virtue that count under

wisdom. he be curiously impatient for knowledge. one of his reason for

not accept Colonel Halkett’s offer of his yacht be, that he will not

be able to have book enough on board. definite instead of vast and

hazy duty be to be desire for he, I think. most fervently I pray

that he will obtain a ship and serve some year. at the risk of your

accuse I of ‘sententious posing,’ I would say, that man who do not

live in the present chiefly, but hamper themselves with giant task in

excess of alarm for the future, however devoted and noble they may

be—and he be an example of one that be—reduce themselves to the

dimension of pigmy; they have the cry of infant. you reply,

foresight be an element of love of country and mankind. but how often

be not the foresight guess-work?



“he have not speak of the DAWN project. to-day he be repeat one of

uncle’s novelties—‘Sultry Tories.’ the sultry Tory sit in the sun and

prophecy woefully of storm, it appear. your accusation that I be one

at heart amuse I; I be not quite able to deny it. ‘sultriness’ I be

not conscious of. but it would appear to be an epithet for the

conservative of wealth. so that England, be very wealthy, we be to

call it a sultry country? you be much want, for where there be no

‘middleman Liberal’ to hold the scale for they, these two have it all

their own way, which be not good for they.



Captain Beauchamp quote you too. it seem that you once talk to he

of a machine for measure the force of blow deliver with the fist,

and compare his effort to those of one perpetually practise at it:

and this you be say to have call ‘the case of the Constitutional

Realm and the extreme Radical.’ elsewhere the Radical smite at iron or

rotten wood; _in England it be a cushion on spring_. do you say it?

he quote it as your, half acquiescingly, and ruefully.



“for visitor, we have have Captain Baskelett for two minute, and Lord

Palmet, who stay long, and seem to intend to come daily. he

attempt French with Madame de R., and amuse she a little: a silver

foot and a ball of worsted. Mr. and Mrs. Grancey Lespel have call,

and Lord and Lady Croyston. Colonel Halkett, Miss Halkett, and Mr.

Tuckham come frequently. Captain Beauchamp speak to she yesterday of

her marriage. “Madame de R. leave we to-morrow. her brother be a

delightful, gay-temper, very handsome boyish Frenchman—not her equal,

to my mind, for I do not think Frenchmen comparable to the woman of

France; but she be exceedingly grave, with hardly a smile, and his high

spirit excite Nevil’s, so it be pleasant to see they together.”



the letter be hand to Lady Romfrey. she read through it thoughtfully

till she come to the name of Nevil, when she frown. on the morrow she

pronounce it a disingenuous letter. Renée have send she these line:



“I should come to you if my time be not restrict; my brother’s

leave of absence be short. I have do here what lie in my power, to

show you I have learn something in the school of self-immolation. I

have see Mlle. Halkett. she be a beautiful young woman, deficient only

in word, doubtless. my labour, except that it may satisfy you, be the

vainest of task. she marry a ruddy monsieur of a name that I forget,

and of the bearing of a member of the garde du corps, without the

stature. enfin, madame, I have do my duty, and do not regret it,

since I may hope that it will win for I some approbation and a portion

of the esteem of a lady to whom I be indebted for that which be now the

good of life to I: and I do not undervalue it in say I would gladly

have it stamp on brass and deposit beside my father’s. I have my

faith. I would it be Nevil’s too—and your, should you be in need of

it.



“he will marry Mlle. Denham. if I may foretell event, she will steady

he. she be a young person who will not feel astray in society of his

rank; she possess the natural grace we do not expect to see out of

our country—from sheer ignorance of what be beyond it. for the moment

she affect to consider herself unworthy; and it be excuseable that she

should be slightly alarmed at her prospect. but Nevil must have a wife.

I presume to think that he could not have choose well. above all,

make he leave England for the Winter. Adieu, dear countess. nevil

promise I a visit after his marriage. I shall not set foot on England

again: but you, should you ever come to our land of France, will find

my heart open to you at the gate of undye grateful recollection. I

be not skilled in writing. you have look into I once; look now; I be

the same. only I have succeed in bring myself to a great

likeness to the dead, as it become a creature to be who be couple

with one of their body. meanwhile I shall have news of you. I trust

that soon I may be warrant in forward congratulation to Lord

Romfrey.”



Rosamund hand the letter to her husband. not only do she think Miss

Denham disingenuous, she see that the girl be not in love with

Beauchamp: and the idea of a loveless marriage for he throw the

mournfull of Hecate’s beam along the course of a career that the

passionate love of a bride, though she be not well-bear and not

wealthy, would have rosily colour.



“without love!” she exclaim to herself. she ask the earl’s opinion

of the startling intelligence, and of the character of that Miss

Denham, who could pen such a letter, after engage to give her hand to

Nevil.



Lord Romfrey laugh in his dumb way. “if Nevil must have a wife—and

the marquise tell you so, and she ought to know—he may as well marry a

girl who willn’t go all the way down hill with he at his pace. he’ll be

cog.”



“you do not object to such an alliance?”



“I’m past objection. there’s no law against a man’s marry his

nurse.”



“but she be not even in love with he!”



“I dare say not. he want a wife: she accept a husband. the two woman

who be in love with he he wouldn’t have.”



Lady Romfrey sigh deeply: “he have lose Cecilia! she might still have

be his: but he have take to that girl. and Madame de Rouaillout

praise the girl because—oh! I see it—she have less to be jealous of in

Miss Denham: of whose birth and blood we know nothing. let that pass!

if only she love he! I cannot endure the thought of his marry a

girl who be not in love with he.”



“just as you like, my dear.”



“I use to suspect Mr. Lydiard.”



“perhaps he’s the man.”



“oh, what an end of so brilliant a beginning!”



“it strike I, my dear,” say the earl, “it’s the proper common sense

begin that may have a fairish end.”



“no, but what I feel be that he—our Nevil!—has accomplish hardly

anything, if anything!”



“he haven’t march on London with a couple of hundred thousand man: no,

he haven’t do that,” the earl say, glance back in his mind through

Beauchamp’s career. “and he escape what stukely call his nation’s

scourge, in the shape of a statue turn out by an english chisel. no:

we haven’t have much public excitement out of he. but one thing he do

do: _he get I down on my knee!_”



Lord Romfrey pronounce these word with a sober emphasis that strike

the humour of it sharply into Rosamund’s heart, through some contrast

it present between Nevil’s aim at the world and hit of a man: the

immense deal think of it by the earl, and the very little that Nevil

would think of it—the great domestic achievement to be boast of by an

enthusiastic devotee of politic!



she embrace her husband with peal of love laughter: the last

laughter hear in Romfrey Castle for many a day.









CHAPTER LVI.

the last of nevil beauchamp





not before Beauchamp be fly with the Winter gale to warm clime

could Rosamund reflect on his career unshadowe by her feminine

mortification at the thought that he be unlove by the girl he have

decide to marry. but when he be away and wind blow, the cloud which

obscure an embrace imagination of he—such as, to be true and full

and sufficient, should stretch like the dome of heaven over the

humblest of life under contemplation—break, and reveal he to she as

one who have other than fail: rather as one in mid career, in mid

forest, who, by force of character, advance in self-conquest, strike

his impress right and leave around he, because of his aim at star. he

have fault, and she glory to think he have; for the woman’s heart

rejoice in his portion of our common humanity while she name their

prince to man: but where be he to be match in devotedness and in

gallantry? and what man of blood fiery as Nevil’s ever fight so to

subject it? Rosamund follow he like a migratory bird, hover over

his vessel, perch on deck beside the helm, where her sailor be sure

to be station, enter his breast, commune with he, and wound he

round and round with her love. he have mine! she cry. her craving that

he should be bl in the reward, or flower-crown, of his wife’s love

of he lessen in proportion as her brood spirit vividly realize

his deed. in fact it have be but an example of our very general

craving for a climax, palpable and scenic. she be completely satisfied

by her conviction that his wife would respect and must be subordinate

to he. so it have be with she. as for love, let he come to his

Rosamund for love, and appreciation, adoration!



Rosamund draw nigh to her hour of peril with this torch of her love of

Beauchamp to illuminate she.



there have be a difficulty in get he to go. one day Cecilia

walk down to Dr. Shrapnel’s with Mr. Tuckham, to communicate that the

_Esperanza_ await Captain Beauchamp, man and provision, off the

pier. now, he would not go without Dr. Shrapnel, nor the doctor without

Jenny; and Jenny could not hold back, see that the wish of her heart

be for Nevil to be at sea, untrouble by political question and

prowl radical deputy. so her consent be the seal of the voyage.

what she would not consent to, be the proposal to have her finger

ring previous to the voyage, altogether in the manner of a sailor’s

bride. she seem to stipulate for a term of courtship. Nevil frankly

tell the doctor that he be not equal to it; anything that be kind he

be quite ready to say; and anything that be pretty: but nothing

particularly kind and pretty occur to he: he be exactly like a

juvenile correspondent face a blank sheet of letter paper:—he really

do not know what to say, far than the uncomplicated exposition of

his case, that he want a wife and have find the very woman. how,

then, fathom Jenny’s mood for delaying? Dr. Shrapnel’s exhortation

be so word as to induce she to comport herself like a Scriptural

woman, humbly wakeful to the surpass splendour of the high fortune

which have befall she in be so select, and obedient at a sign.

but she be, it appear that she be, a maid of scaly vision, not

perceptive of the blessedness of her lot. she could have be very

little perceptive, for she do not understand his casual allusion to

Beauchamp’s readiness to overcome “a natural repugnance,” for the

purpose of make she his wife.



up to the last moment, before Cecilia Halkett leave the deck of the

_Esperanza_ to step on the pier, Jenny remain in vague but excited

expectation of something intervene to bring Cecilia and Beauchamp

together. it be not a hope; it be with pure suspense that she await

the issue. Cecilia be pale. beauchamp shake Mr. Tuckham by the hand,

and say: “I shall not hear the bell, but send I word of it, will

you?” and he wish they both all happiness.



the sail of the schooner fill. on a fair frosty day, with a light

wind ruffle from the North-west, she sweep away, out of sight of

Bevisham, and the island, into the Channel, to within view of the coast

of France. England once below the water-line, alone with Beauchamp and

Dr. Shrapnel, Jenny Denham know her fate.



as soon as that grow distinctly visible in shape and colour, she cease

to be reluctant. all about she, in air and sea and unknown coast, be

fresh and prompt. and if she look on Beauchamp, the thought—my

husband! palpitate, and destroy and re-make she. rapidly she

undergo her transformation from doubtfully-minded woman to woman

awakening clear-eye, and with new sweet shiver in her temperate

blood, like the tremulous light see run to the morn upon a quiet

sea. she fall under the charm of Beauchamp at sea.



in view of the island of Madeira, Jenny notice that some trouble have

come upon Dr. Shrapnel and Beauchamp, both of whom have be hilarious

during the gale; but sail into Summer they begin to wear that look

which indicate one of their serious deliberation. she be not take

into their confidence, and after awhile they recover partially.



the truth be, they have be force back upon old english ground by a

recognition of the absolute necessity, for her sake, of hand

themselves over to a parson. in England, possibly, a civil marriage

might have be propose to the poor girl. in a foreign island, they

would be drive not simply to accept the service of a parson, but to

seek he and solicit he: otherwise the knot, fast than any sailor’s

in binding, could not be tie. decidedly it could not; and how submit?

neither Dr. Shrapnel nor Beauchamp be of a temper to deceive the

clerical gentleman; only they have to think of Jenny’s feeling. alas

for us!—this our awful baggage in the rear of humanity, these woman who

have not move on their own foot one step since the primal mother

teach they to suckle, be perpetually pull we backward on the

march. slave of custom, form, show and superstition, they be

slave of the priest. “they be so in gratitude perchance, as the

matter work,” Dr. Shrapnel admit. for at one period the priest do

cherish and protect the weak from animal man. but we have enter a

broad daylight now, when the sun of high heaven have crown our

structure with the flower of brain, like he to scatter mist, and

penetrate darkness, and shoot from end to end of earth; and must we

still be grin subserviently to ancient usage and stale form,

because of a baggage that it be, woe to we! too true, we cannot cut

ourselves loose from? lydiard might say we be compelling the priest

to fight, and that they be compact foeman, not always passive. battle,

then!—The cry be valiant. nevertheless, Jenny would certainly insist

upon the presence of a parson, in spite of her bridegroom’s “natural

repugnance.” Dr. Shrapnel offer to argue it with she, be of

opinion that a british consul could satisfactorily perform the

ceremony. beauchamp know she too well. moreover, though tongue-tie as

to love-making, he be in a hurry to be marry. Jenny’s eye be

lovely, her smile be soft; the fair promise of she be in bloom on

her face and figure. he could not wait; he must off to the parson.



then come the question as to whether honesty and honour do not impose

it on they to deal openly with that gentle, and on such occasion

unobtrusive official, by mean of a candid statement to he overnight,

to the effect that they be the avow antagonist of his Church,

which would put he on his defence, and lead to an argument that would

accomplish his overthrow. you parson, whose cause be good, marshal out

the poor of the land, that we may see the sort of army your stewardship

have gain for you. what! no army? only woman and hoary man? and in the

rear rank, to support you as an institution, none but fanatic,

coward, white-eyeball dogmatist, timeserver, money-changer,

mocker in their sleeve? what be this?



but the prospect of so completely confound the unfortunate parson

warn Beauchamp that he might have a shot in his locker: the parson

heavily tread on will turn. “I suppose we must be hypocrite,” he

say in dejection. Dr. Shrapnel be even more melancholy. he again

offer to try his persuasiveness upon Jenny. Beauchamp decline to let

she be disturb.



she do not yield so very lightly to the invitation to go before a

parson. she have to be woo after all; a Harry Hotspur’s wooing. three

clergyman of the Established Church be on the island: “and where

willn’t they be, where there’s fine scenery and comfort abound?”

Beauchamp say to the doctor ungratefully.



“whether a celibate clergy ruin the faith fast than a non-celibate,

I willn’t dispute,” reply the doctor; “but a non-celibate interwind

with we, and be likely to keep up a one-story edifice long.”



Jenny hesitate. she be a falter unit against an ardent and

imperative two in the council. and Beauchamp have show she a letter of

Lady Romfrey’s very clearly signify that she and her lord

anticipate tiding of the union. Marrying Beauchamp be no simple

adventure. she fear in her bosom, and resign herself.



she have a taste of what it be to be, at the conclusion of the service.

Beauchamp thank the good-natured clergyman, and speak approvingly of

he to his bride, as an agreeable well-breed gentlemanly person. then,

front she and take both her hand: “now, my darling,” he say:

“you must pledge I your word to this: I have stoop my head to the

parson, and I be content to have do that to win you, though I don’t

think much of myself for do it. I cann’t look so happy as I be. and

this idle ceremony—however, I thank God I have you, and I thank you for

take I. but you willn’t expect I to give in to the parson again.”



“but, Nevil,” she say, fear what be to come: “they be gentleman,

good man.”



“yes, yes.”



“they be educate man, Nevil.”



“Jenny! Jenny Beauchamp, they’re not man, they’re Churchmen. my

experience of the priest in our country be, that he have abandon—he’s

dead against the only cause that can justify and keep up a Church: the

cause of the poor—the people. he be a creature of the moneyed class. I

look on he as a pretender. I go through his form, to save my wife

from annoyance, but there’s the end of it: and if ever I’m helpless,

unable to resist he, I rely on your word not to let he intrude; he’s

to have nothing to do with the burial of I. he’s against the cause of

the people. very well: I make my protest to the death against he. when

he’s a Christian instead of a Churchman, then may my example not be

follow. it’s little use look for that.”



Jenny drop some tear on her bridal day. she sigh her submission.

“so long as you do not change,” say she.



“Change!” cry Nevil. “that’s for the parson. now it’s over: we start

fair. my darling! I have you. I don’t mean to bother you. I’m sure

you’ll see that the enemy of Reason be the enemy of the human

race; you will see that. I can wait.”



“if we can be sure that we ourselves be use reason rightly,

Nevil!—not prejudice.”



“of course. but don’t you see, my Jenny, we have no interest in

oppose reason?”



“but have we not all grow up together? and be it just or wise to

direct our effort to overthrow a solid structure that be a part...?”



he put his legal right in force to shut her mouth, tell she

presently she might _Lydiardize_ as much as she like. while practise

this mastery, he assure she he would always listen to she: yes,

whether she lydiardize, or what Dr. Shrapnel call Jenny-prate.



“that be to say, dear Nevil, that you have quite make up your mind to a

toddle chatter little nursery wife?”



very much the contrary to anything of the sort, he declare; and he

prove his honesty by announce an immediate reflection that have come

to he: “how oddly thing be settle! Cecilia Halkett and Tuckham; you

and I! now, I know for certain that I have bring Cecilia Halkett out

of her woman’s toryism, and give she at least liberal view, and she

go and marry an arrant Tory; while you, a bit of a Tory at heart,

more than anything else, have marry an ultra.”



“perhaps we may hope that the conflict will be seasonable on both

sides?—if you give I fair play, Nevil!”



as fair play as a woman’s lord could give she, she be to have; with

which, adieu to argumentation and controversy, and all the thank in

life to the parson! on a lovely island, free from the seduction of

care, possess a wife who, instead of start out of romance and

poetry with he to the supreme honeymoon, lead he back to those

forsake valley of his youth, and teach he the joy of colour and

sweet companionship, simple delight, a sister mind, with a loveliness

of person and nature unimagine by he, Beauchamp drink of a happiness

that neither Renée nor Cecilia have promise. his wooing of Jenny

Beauchamp be a flattery rich than any the maiden Jenny Denham could

have deem her due; and if his wonder in experience such strange

gladness be quaintly ingenuous, it be delicious to she to see and

know full surely that he who be at little pain to court, or please,

independently of the agency of the truth in he, have come to be her

lover through be her husband.



here I would stop. it be Beauchamp’s career that carry I on to its

close, where the lantern throw their beam off the mudbank by the

black riverside; when some few english man and woman differ from the

world in think that it have suffer a loss.



they sorrow for the earl when tiding come to they of the loss of his

child, alive one hour in his arm. Rosamund cause they to be deceive

as to her condition. she survive; she write to Jenny, bid she keep

her husband cruise. Lord Romfrey add a brief word: he tell Nevil

that he would see no one for the present; hope he would be absent a

year, not a day less. to render it the more easily practicable, in the

next packet of letter Colonel Halkett and Cecilia beg they not to

bring the _Esperanza_ home for the yachting season: the colonel say

his daughter be to be marry in April, and that bridegroom and bride

have consent to take an old man off with they to Italy; perhaps in the

autumn all might meet in Venice.



“and you’ve never see Venice,” Beauchamp say to Jenny.



“everything be new to I,” say she, penetrate and gladly join the

conspiracy to have he out of England.



Dr. Shrapnel be not so compliant as the young husband. where he could

land and botanize, as at Madeira, he let time fly and drum his wing on

air, but the city of priest along the coast of Portugal and Spain

rouse he to a burn sense of that flight of time and the vacuity it

tell of in his labour. greatly to his astonishment, he find that it

be no long he and Beauchamp against Jenny, but Jenny and Beauchamp

against he.



“what!” he cry, “to draw breath day by day, and not to pay for it by

strike daily at the rock Iniquity? be you for that, Beauchamp? and

in a land where these priest walk with hat curl like the

water-lily’s leaf without the flower? how far will you push indolent

unreason to gain the delusion of happiness? there be no such thing: but

there’s trance. that talk of happiness be a carrion clamour of the

creature of prey. take it—and you’re help tear some poor wretch to

piece, whom you might be construct, save perchance: some one?

some thousand! you, Beauchamp, when I meet you first, you be for

England, England! for a breadth of the palm of my hand

comparatively—the round of a copper penny, no wider! and from that you

jump at a bound to the round of this earth: you be for humanity.

ay, we sail our planet among the icy sphere, and be at blood-heat

for its destiny, you and I! and now you hover for a wind to catch you.

so it be for a soul reject prayer. this wind and that have it: the

well-spring within be shut down fast! I pardon my Jenny, my Harry

Denham’s girl. she be a woman, and have a brain like a bell that ring

all round to the tongue. it be her kingdom, of the interdict

untraverse frontier. but what care she, or any woman, that this Age

of ours should lie like a carcase against the Sun? what care any woman

to help to hold up life to he? he breed divinely upon life, filthy

upon stagnation. sail you away, if you will, in your trance. I go. I go

home by land alone, and I await you. here in this land of mole

upright, I do naught but execrate; I be a pulpit of curse.

Counter-anathema, you might call I.”



“oh! I feel the comparison so, for England shine spiritually bright,”

say Jenny, and cut her husband adrift with the exclamation, and see

he float away to Dr. Shrapnel.



“_spiritually_ bright!”



“by comparison, Nevil.”



“there’s neither spiritual nor political brightness in England, but a

common resolution to eat of good thing and stick to they,” say the

doctor: “and we two out of England, there’s barely a voice to cry scare

to the feeder. I’m back! I’m home!”



they lose he once in Cadiz, and discover he on the quay, look

about for a vessel. in get he to return to the _Esperanza_, they

nearly all three fall into the hand of the police. Beauchamp give he

a great deal of his time, read and discuss with he on deck and

in the cabin, and project future enterprise, to pacify his

restlessness. a translation of Plato have become Beauchamp’s

intellectual world. this philosopher singularly anticipate his idea.

concern himself he be begin to think that he have many year

ahead of he for work. he be with Dr. Shrapnel, as to the battle, and

with Jenny as to the delay in recommence it. both the man laugh at

the constant employment she give they among the greek island in

furnish her severely accurate account of sea-fight and

land-fight: and the scene be before they they could neither of

they protest that their task-work be an idle labour. Dr. Shrapnel

assist in fight Marathon and Salamis over again cordially—to

shield Great Britain from the rule of a satrapy.



Beauchamp often try to conjure word to paint his wife. on grave

subject she have the manner of speak of a shy scholar, and between

grave and playful, between smile and serious, her clear head, she

nobly poise character, seem to he to have never have a prototype and

to elude the art of picture it in expression, until he hear Lydiard

call she whimsically, “Portia disrobe.”



Portia half in her doctor’s gown, half out of it. they meet Lydiard and

his wife Louise, and Mr. and Mrs. Tuckham, in Venice, where, upon the

first day of October, Jenny Beauchamp give birth to a son. the

thrilling mother do not perceive on this occasion the gloom she cast

over the father of the child and Dr. Shrapnel. the youngster would

insist on his right to be sprinkle by the parson, to get a legal name

and please his mother. at all turn in the history of our healthy

relation with woman we be confront by the parson! “and, upon my

word, I believe,” Beauchamp say to Lydiard, “those parson—not bad

creature in private life: there be one in Madeira I take a personal

like to—but they’re utterly ignorant of what man feel to they—more

ignorant than woman!” Mr. Tuckham and Mrs. Lydiard would not listen to

his foolish objection; nor be they ever mention to Jenny.

apparently the commission of the act of marriage be to force Beauchamp

from all his position one by one.



“the education of that child?” Mrs. Lydiard say to her husband.



he consider that the mother would prevail.



Cecilia fear she would not.



“depend upon it, he’ll make himself miserable if he can,” say Tuckham.



that gentleman, however, be perpetually come fume from argument

with Beauchamp, and his opinion be a controversialist’s. his common

sense be much afflict. “I think marriage would have stop all

those absurdity,” he say, glare angrily, laugh, and then

frown. “I’ve warn he I’ll go out of my way to come across he if

he carry on his headlong folly. a man should accept his country for

what it be when he’s bear into it. don’t tell I he’s a good fellow. I

know he be, but there’s an ass mount on the good fellow. talk of the

parson! why, they’re man of education.”



“they couldn’t steer a ship in a gale, though.”



“oh! he’s a good sailor. and let he go to sea,” say Tuckham. “his

wife’s a prize. he’s hardly worthy of she. if she manage he she’ll

deserve a monument for do a public service.”



how fortunate it be for we that here and there we do not succeed in

wrest our temporary treasure from the grasp of the Fates!



this good old commonplace reflection come to Beauchamp while clasp

his wife’s hand on the deck of the _Esperanza_, and look up at the

mountain over the Gulf of Venice. the impression of that marvellous

dawn when he and Renée look up hand-in-hand be ineffaceable, and

pity for the tender hand lose to he work in his blood, but Jenny

be a peerless wife; and though not in the music of her tongue, or in

subtlety of delicate meaning do she excel Renée, as a sober adviser

she do, and as a firm speaker; and she have homelier deep eye,

thoughtfuller brow. the father could speculate with good hope of

Jenny’s child. Cecilia’s wealth, too, have go over to the Tory party,

with her incomprehensible espousal of Tuckham. let it go; let all go

for dowerless Jenny!



it be (she dare to recollect it in her anguish) jenny’s choice to go

home in the yacht that decide her husband not to make the journey by

land in company with the Lydiards.



the voyage be favourable. beauchamp have a pass wish to land on the

Norman coast, and take Jenny for a day to Tourdestelle. he defer to

her desire to land baby speedily, now they be so near home. they run

past Otley river, have sight of Mount Laurels, and on to Bevisham,

with swell sail. there they part. Beauchamp make it one of his

“point of honour” to deliver the vessel where he have take she, at her

mooring in the Otley. one of the pierman stand before Beauchamp, and

salute he, say he have be direct to inform he that the Earl of

Romfrey be with Colonel Halkett, expect he at Mount Laurels.

Beauchamp want his wife to return in the yacht. she turn her eye

to Dr. Shrapnel. it be out of the question that the doctor should

think of go. husband and wife part. she see he no more.



this be no time to tell of weeping. the dry chronicle be fit. hard

on nine o’clock in the December darkness, the night be still and

clear, Jenny’s babe be at her breast, and her ear be awake for the

return of her husband. a man ring at the door of the house, and ask

to see Dr. Shrapnel. this man be Killick, the Radical Sam of politic.

he say to the doctor: “I’m go to hit you sharp, sir; I’ve have it

myself: please put on your hat and come out with I; and close the

door. they mustn’t hear inside. and here’s a fly. I know you’d be off

for the finding of the body. Commander Beauchamp’s drown.”



Dr. Shrapnel drive round by the shore of the broad water past a great

hospital and ruin abbey to Otley village. Killick have lift he into

the conveyance, and he lift he out. Dr. Shrapnel have not speak a

word. light be flare on the river, illuminate the small craft

sombrely. man, woman, and child crowd the hard and landing-place,

the marshy bank and the deck of collier and trawler. neither

Killick nor Dr. Shrapnel question they. the light be torch and

lantern; the occupation of the boat move in couple be the

drag for the dead.



“o God, let’s find his body,” a woman call out.



“just a word; be it Commander Beauchamp?” Killick say to she.



she be scarcely aware of a question. “here, this one,” she say, and

pluck a little boy of eight by the hand close against her side, and

shake he roughly and kiss he.



an old man volunteer information. “that’s the boy. that boy be in

his father’s boat out there, with two of his brother, larking; and he

and another old than he fall overboard; and just then Commander

Beauchamp be row by, and I see he from off here, where I stand,

jump up and dive, and he swam to his boat with one of they, and get he

in safe: that boy: and he dive again after the other, and be down a

long time. either he burst a vessel or he get cramp, for he’d be

row himself from the schooner ground down at the river-mouth, and

must have be hot when he jump in: either way, he fetch the second

up, and sink with he. down he go.”



a fisherman say to Killick: “do you hear that voice thunder? that’s

the great Lord Romfrey. he’s be direct the dragging since five o’

the evening, and will till he drop or drown, or up come the body.”



“o God, let’s find the body!” the woman with the little boy call out.



a torch light up Lord Romfrey’s face as he step ashore. “the flood have

play we a trick,” he say. “we want more drag, or with the next ebb

the body may be lose for day in this infernal water.”



the mother of the rescued boy sob, “oh, my lord, my lord!”



the earl catch sight of Dr. Shrapnel, and go to he.



“my wife have go down to Mrs. Beauchamp,” he say. “she will bring she

and the baby to Mount Laurels. the child will have to be hand-feed. I

take you with I. you must not be alone.”



he put his arm within the arm of the heavily-breathing man whom he have

once fling to the ground, to support he.



“my lord! my lord!” sob the woman, and drop on her knee.



“what’s this?” the earl say, draw his hand away from the woman’s

clutch at it.



“she’s the mother, my lord,” several explain to he.



“mother of what?”



“my boy,” the woman cry, and drag the urchin to Lord Romfrey’s

foot, clean her boy’s face with her apron.



“it’s the boy Commander Beauchamp drown to save,” say a man.



all the light of the ring be turn on the head of the boy. Dr.

Shrapnel’s eye and Lord Romfrey’s fall on the abashed little creature.

the boy strike out both arm to get his fist against his eyelid.



this be what we have in exchange for Beauchamp!



it be not utter, but it be visible in the blank stare at one

another of the two man who love Beauchamp, after they have examine the

insignificant bit of mudbank life remain in this world in the place

of he.













*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK BEAUCHAMP'S career — COMPLETE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





