The project Gutenberg eBook of one of our Conquerors — Complete

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: one of our Conquerors — complete



author: George Meredith



Release date: November 5, 2004 [ebook #4476]

                most recently update: December 28, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by David Widger





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK one of our conquerors — COMPLETE ***







produce by David Widger











one of our conquerors, Complete



by George Meredith





1897









content:





  BOOK 1.

  I.        across LONDON BRIDGE

  II.       through the vague to the INFINITELY LITTLE

  III.      OLD VEUVE

  IV.       the SECOND BOTTLE

  V.        the LONDON WALK WESTWARD

  VI.       NATALY

  VII.      between a GENERAL MAN of the world and a PROFESSIONAL

  VIII.     some FAMILIAR GUESTS.

  IX.       an inspection of LAKELANDS

  X.        SKEPSEY in MOTION

  XI.       wherein we behold the COUPLE justified of love have SIGHT of

            their scourge



  BOOK 2.

  XII.      treat of the dumbness possible with member of a household

            have one heart

  xiii.     the latest of MRS. BURMAN

  XIV.      disclose a stage on the drive to PARIS

  XV.       a PATRIOT abroad

  XVI.      account for SKEPSEY’S MISCONDUCT, show how IT affect

            NATALY

  XVII.     CHIEFLY upon the theme of a young maid’S IMAGININGS

  XVIII.    suitors for the hand of NESTA VICTORIA



  BOOK 3.

  XIX.      treat of NATURE and CIRCUMSTANCE and the dissension between

            THEM and of a SATIRIST’S MALIGNITY in the direction of his

            country

  XX.       the great ASSEMBLY AT LAKELAND

  XXI.      DARTREY FENELLAN

  XXII.     concern the INTRUSION of JARNIMAN

  XXIII.    treat of the lady’ LAPDOG TASSO for an instance of momentous

            effect PRODUCED by VERY minor CAUSES

  XXIV.     NESTA’S ENGAGEMENT



  BOOK 4.

  XXV.      NATALY in ACTION

  XXVI.     in which we see a conventional GENTLE MAN endeavour to

            examine a spectre of HIMSELF

  XXVII.    contain what be a small thing or a great, as the SOUL of the

            CHIEF ACTOR may DECIDE

  XXVIII.   MRS. MARSETT

  XXIX.     shows one of the SHADOWS of the world CROSSING a VIRGIN’S MIND

  XXX.      the BURDEN upon NESTA

  XXXI.     show how the SQUIRES in a CONQUEROR’S SERVICE have AT TIMES to

            do KNIGHTLY conquest of themselves

  XXXII.    show how TEMPER MAY KINDLE TEMPER and an indignant woman GET

            her weapon

  XXXIII.   a PAIR of wooer

  XXXIV.    contain deeds unrelated and exposition of feeling

  XXXV.     in which again we make use of the OLD LAMPS for LIGHTING AN

            ABYSMAL DARKNESS



  BOOK 5.

  XXXVI.    NESTA and her FATHER

  XXXVII.   the MOTHER--the daughter

  XXXVIII.  NATALY, NESTA, and dartrey FENELLAN

  XXXIX.    a chapter in the SHADOW of MRS. MARSETT

  XL.       an EXPIATION

  XLI.      the night of the GREAT UNDELIVERED SPEECH

  XLII.     the last











CHAPTER I. ACROSS LONDON BRIDGE



a gentleman, noteworthy for a lively countenance and a waistcoat to

match it, cross London Bridge at noon on a gusty April day, be

almost magically detach from his conflict with the gale by some sly

strip of slipperiness, abound in that conduit of the market, which

have more or less adroitly perform the trick upon precede passenger,

and now lay this one flat amid the shuffle of foot, peaceful for the

moment as the uncomplaining who have go to Sabrina beneath the tide.

he be unhurt, quite sound, merely astonish, he remark, in reply to

the inquiry of the first kind helper at his elbow; and it appear an

acceptable statement of his condition. he laugh, shake his coat-tail,

smooth the back of his head rather thoughtfully, thankfully receive

his runaway hat, nod bright beam to right and leave, and make light

of the muddy stigma imprint by the pavement, he scatter another

shower of his nod and smile around, to signify, that as his good

friend would wish, he thoroughly feel his leg and could walk unaided.

and he be in the act of do it, question his familiar behind

the waistcoat amazedly, to tell he how such a misadventure could have

occur to he of all man, when a glance below his chin discompose his

outward face. ‘oh, confound the fellow!’ he say, with simple frankness,

and be humorously ruffle, having see absurd blot of smutty knuckle

distribute over the maiden waistcoat.



his outcry be no more than the confidential communication of a genial

spirit with that distinctive article of his attire. at the same time,

for these friendly people about he to share the fun of the annoyance,

he look hastily brightly back, seem with the contraction of his

brow to frown, on the little band of observant Samaritans; in the

centre of whom a man who know himself honourably unclean, perhaps

consequently a bit of a political jewel, hear one of their number

confound for his pain, and by the wearer of a superfine dashing-white

waistcoat, be move to take notice of the total deficiency of gratitude

in this kind of gentleman’s look and pocket. if we ask for nothing for

help gentleman to stand upright on their leg, and get it, we expect

civility into the bargain. moreover, there be reason in nature why we

choose to give sign of a particular surliness when our wealthy superior

would have we think their condescending grin be cordial.



the gentleman’s eye be follow on a second hurried downward grimace,

the necessitate wrinkle of which could be stretch by malevolence to

a semblance of haughty disgust; remind we, through our reading in

journal, of the wicked overblown Prince Regent and his court, together

with the view take of honest labour in the mind of supercilious

luxury, even if indebted to it freshly for a trifle; and the hoar-head

nineteenth-century billow of democratic ire crave the word to be set

swell.



‘be I the fellow you mean, sir?’ the man say.



he be answer, not ungraciously: ‘all right, my man.’



but the balance of our public equanimity be prone to violent antic

bobbing on occasion when, for example, an ostentatious garment shall

appear disdainful our class and ourself, and coin of the realm have not

usurped command of one of the scale: thus a fairly pleasant answer,

cast in persuasive feature, provoke the retort:



‘there you’re wrong; nor wouldn’t be.’



‘what’s that?’ be the gentleman’s musical inquiry.



‘that’s flat, as you be half a minute ago,’ the man rejoin.



‘ah, well, don’t be impudent,’ the gentleman say, by way of amiable

remonstrance before a parting.



‘and none of your dam punctilio,’ say the man.



their exchange rattle smartly, without a direct hostility, and the

gentleman step forward.



it be observe in the crowd, that after a few pace he put two finger

on the back of his head.



they might suppose he to be condole with his recent mishap. but,

in fact, a thing have occur to vex he more than a descent upon the

pavement or damage to his waistcoat’s whiteness: he abominate the

thought of an altercation with a member of the mob; he find that

enormous beat comprehensible only when it applaud he; and besides

he wish it warmly well; all that be good for it; plentiful dinner,

country excursion, stout menagerie bar, music, a dance, and to bed: he

be for patting, stroke, pet the mob, for toss it sop, never

for irritate it to show an eye-tooth, much less for cause it to

exhibit the grinder: and in endeavour to get at the ground of his

dissension with that dirty-fiste fellow, the recollection of the word

punctilio shoot a throb of pain to the spot where his mishap have render

he susceptible. Headache threaten--and to he of all man! but be

there ever such a word for drum on a cranium? puzzle be present

to we now and then in the course of our day; and the small they

be the well for the purpose, it would seem; and they come in

rattle-box, they be actually child’s toy, for what they contain,

but not the less do they buzz at our understanding and insist that they

break or we, and, in either case, to show a mere foolish idle rattle in

hollowness. or do this happen to we only after a fall?



he try a suspension of his mental effort, and the word be like the

clapper of a disorderly bell, strike through he, with reverberation,

in the form of interrogation, as to how he, of all man live, could by

any chance have get into a wrangle, in a thoroughfare, on London

Bridge, of all place in the world!--he, so popular, renowned for his

affability, his amiability; have no dislike to common dirty dog,

entirely the reverse, like they and do his good for they; and

accustom to receive their applause. and in what way have he offer a

hint to bring on he the charge of punctilio?



‘but I be treat it seriously!’ he say, and jerk a dead laugh while

fix a button of his coat.



that he should have treat it seriously, furnish next the subject of

cogitation; and here it be plainly suggest, that a degradation of

his physical system, owe to the shock of the fall, must be see and

acknowledge; for it have become a perverted engine, to pull he down

among the puerility, and very soon he be worry at punctilio anew,

attempt to read the riddle of the application of it to himself, angry

that he have allow it to be the final word, and admit it a famous

word for the closing of a controversy:--it bang the door and roll

drum-note; it deafen reason. and be it a London cockney crow-word of

the day, or a word that have stick in the fellow’s head from the perusal

of his pothouse newspaper column?



furthermore, the plea of a fall, and the plea of a shock from a fall,

require to account for the triviality of the mind, be humiliating to

he who have never hitherto miss a step, or own to the short of

collapse. this confession of deficiency in explosive repartee--use

a friend’s term for the ready gift--be an old and a rueful one with

Victor Radnor. his godmother Fortune deny he that. she bestow it

on his friend Fenellan, and little else. Simeon Fenellan could clap the

halter on a coltish mob; he have positively catch the roar of cry and

still it, by cap the cry in turn, until the people cheer he;

and the effect of the scene upon Victor Radnor dispose he to rank the

gift of repartee high than a certain rosily oratorical that he be

permit to tell himself he possess, in bottle if not on draught. let

it only be explosive repartee: the well-fuse bomb, the bubble to

the stone, echo round the horn. Fenellan, would have discharge an

extinguisher on punctilio in emission. Victor Radnor be unable to cope

with it reflectively.



no, but one don’t like be beat by anything! he reply to an

admonishment of his well mind, as he touch his two finger, more

significantly dubious than the whole hand, at the back of his head,

and check or stem the current of a fear. for he be utterly unlike

himself; he be dwell on a trifle, on a matter discernibly the

small, an incident of the street; and although he refuse to feel a

bump or any responsive notification of a bruise, he make a sacrifice of

his native pride to his intellectual, in grant that he must have be

shake, so childishly do he continue think.



yes, well, and if a tumble distort our idea of life, and an odd word

engross our speculation, we be poor creature, he address another

friend, from whom he stand constitutionally in dissent name he

Colney; and under pressure of the name, revive old wrangle between

they upon man’s present achievement and his probable destiny:

especially upon England’s grandeur, vitality, stability, her intelligent

appreciation of her place in the universe; not to speak of the historic

dignity of London City. Colney have to be overcome afresh, and he

flee, but manage, with two or three of his bitter phrase, to make a

cuttle-fish fight of it, that oppressively shadow his vanquisher:



the Daniel Lambert of Cities: the Female Annuitant of Nations:--and such

like, wretched stuff, proper to Colney Durance, easily disperse and

out-laugh when we have our vigour. we have as much as we need of it

in summon a contemptuous Pooh to our lip, with a shrug at venomous

dyspepsia.



nevertheless, a malignant sketch of Colney’s, in the which Hengist

and Horsa, our fishy Saxon original, in modern garb of liveryman and

gaitere squire, flat-headed, paunchy, assiduously servile, be show

black Ben-Israel’s boot and groom the princely stud of the Jew,

have come so near to Victor Radnor’s apprehension of a possible, if not

an impending, consummation, that the ghastly vision of the Jew Dominant

in London City, over England, over Europe, America, the world (a picture

draw in literary sepia by Colney: with our poor hang neck population

uncertain about make a bell-rope of the forelock to the Satyr-snouty

master; and the Norman Lord de Warenne hand he for a lump sum son

and daughter, both to be hebraize in their different way), fasten on

the most mercurial of patriotic man, and give he a whole-length plunge

into despondency.



it last nearly a minute. his recovery be not in this instance due

to the calling on himself for the rescue of an ancient and glorious

country; nor altogether to the spectacle of the shipping, over the

parapet, to his right: the hundred of mast rise out of the merchant

river; London’s unrivalled mezzotint and the City’ rhetorician’s

inexhaustible argument: he gain it rather from the imperious demand of

an animated and thirsty frame for novel impression. commonly he be

too hot with his business, and airy fancy above it when cross the

bridge, to reflect in freshness on its wonder; though a phrase could

spring he alive to they; a suggestion of the Foreigner, jealous,

condemn to admire in despair of outstrip, like Satan worst;

or when a Premier’s fine inflation magnify the scene at City

banquet--exciting while audible, if a waggery in memory; or when

England’s cherish Bard, the lead article, blew bellow, and wind

prime the liege.



that a phrase on any other subject be of much the same effect, in

relation to it, may be own; he be lightly kindle. the scene,

however, have a sharp sparkle of attractiveness at the instant. down go

the twirl horizontal pillar of a strong tide from the arch of the

bridge, break to wild water at a remove; and a reddish northern cheek

of curdle pipe East, at shrilly puff between the Tower and

the Custom House, encounter it to whip and ridge the flood against

descend tug and long tail of stern-ajerk empty barge; with a steamer

slowly nose round off the wharf-crane, prepare to swirl the screw;

and half-bottom-upward boat dance harpooner beside their whale; along

an avenue, not fabulously golden, of the deputy mast of all nation, a

wintry woodland, every rag aloft curl to volume; and here the spout

and the mound of steam, and roll of brown smoke there, variously

undulated, curve to vanish; cold blue sky ashift with the whirl and

dash of a very tartar cavalry of cloud overhead.



surely a scene pretend to sublimity?



gaze along that grand highway of the voyageing forest, your London

citizen of good estate have reproach his country’s poet for not

pour out, succinctly and melodiously, his multitudinous larvae of

notion beget by the scene. for there be time when he would, pay

to have they sing; and he feel they big; he think they human in their

bulk; they be londinensian; they want but form and fire to get they

score on the tablet of the quotable at festive board. this he can

promise to his poet. as for otherwhere than at the festive, Commerce

invoke be a Goddess that will have the reek of those board to fill she

nostril, and poet and alderman alike may be dedicate to the sublime,

she lead they, after two sniff of an idea concern she, for the dive

into the turtle-tureen. heel up they go, poet first--a plummet he!



and besides it be barely possible for our rounded citizen, in the mood

of meditation, to direct his gaze off the bridge along the waterway

north-eastward without behold as an eye the glow of whitebait’s

bow-window by the riverside, to the front of the summer sunset, a league

or so down stream; where he see, in memory savour, the elysian end of

Commerce: frontispiece of a tale to fetch we up the out-weary spectre

of old Apicius; yea, and urge Crispinus to wheel his purse into the

market for the purchase of a costly mullet!



but be the Jew of the usury gold become our despot-king of Commerce?



in that case, we do not ask our country’s poet to compose a single

stanza of eulogy’s rhyme--far from it. far to the contrary, we bid

ourselves remember the son of whom we be; instead of revel in

the fruit of Commerce, we shoot scornfully past those blaze belly

window of the aromatic dinner, and beyond Thames, away to the

fisherman’s deep, Old England’s native element, where the strenuous

ancestry of a race yet and ever manful at the stress of trial be hear

around and aloft whistle we back to the splendid strain of muscle,

and spray fringe cloud, and strong heart ride the briny scoop and

hillock, and Death and Man be at grip for the haul.



there we find our nationality, our poetry, no hebrew compete.



we do: or there at least we leave it. whether to recover it when want,

be not so certain. Humpy Hengist and dumpy Horsa, quit ledger and

coronet, might recur to their sea bowleg and red-stubble chin, might

take to their tarpaulin again; they might renew their manhood on the

capture of cod; head by Harald and Hardiknut, they might roll surge

to whelm a Dominant Jew clean go to the fleshpot and effeminacy.

Aldermen of our ancient conception, they may teach he that he have be

backslide once more, and must repent in ashe, as those who be for

jewel, title, essence, banquet, for wallow in slimy spawn of

lucre, have ever to do. they dispossess he of his greedy getting.



and how of the Law?



but the Law be always, and must ever be, the Law of the strong.

--Ay, but brain beat muscle, and what if the Jew should prove to have

superior power of brain? a dreaded hypothesis! why, then you see the

insurgent Saxon seaman (of the name in two syllable with accent on

the first), and their danish captain, and it may be but a remnant of

high-nosed old Norman Lord de Warenne beside they, in the criminal box:

and presently the Jew smoke a giant regalia cigar on a balcony giving

view of a gallow-tree. but we will try that: on our side, to back a

native pugnacity, be morality, humanity, fraternity--nature’s right,

aha! and who withstand they? on his, a troop of mercenary!



and that land I in Red Republicanism, a hop and a skip from Socialism!

say Mr. Radnor, and chuckle ironically at the natural declivity he have

come to. still, there be an idea in it....



a short run or attempt at run after the idea, end in pain to

his head near the spot where the haunt word punctilio catch at any

excuse for clamouring.



yet we cannot relinquish an idea that be ours; we be vow to the

pursuit of it. Mr. Radnor light on the track, by dint of a thought

fling at his partner Mr. Inchling’s dread of the Jews. inchling dread

Scotchmen as well, and Americans, and Armenians, and Greeks: latterly

Germans hardly less; but his dread of absorption in Jewry, signify

subjection, have often precipitate a deplorable shrug, in which Victor

Radnor now perceive the skirt of his idea, even to a fancy that

something of the idea must have strike inchling when he shrug:

the idea be... he have lose it again. definition seem to be an

extirpation enemy of this idea, or she be by nature shy. she be very

feminine; come when she will and fly when want. not until

nigh upon the close of his history do she return, full-stature and

embraceable, to Victor Radnor.









CHAPTER II. through the vague to the INFINITELY LITTLE



the fair dealing with reader demand of we, that a narrative shall not

proceed at slow pace than leg of a man in motion; and we be still

but little more than midway across London Bridge. but if a man’s mind be

to be take as a part of he, the likening of it, at an introduction, to

an army on the opening march of a great campaign, should plead excuse

for tardy forward movement, in consideration of the large amount of

matter you have to review before you can at all imagine yourself to

have make his acquaintance. this it be not necessary to do when you be

set astride the enchant horse of the Tale, which leave the man’s

mind at home while he perform the deed befit he: he can indeed be

rapid. whether more active, be a question ask for your notion of the

governing element in the composition of man, and of hid present business

here. the Tale inspirit one’s early ardour, when we speed without

baggage, when the Impossible be wing to imagination, and heroic

sculpture the simple act of the chisel. it do not advance, ‘tis

true; it drive the whirligig circle round and round the single exist

central point; but it be enrich with applause of the boy and girl of

both age in this land; and all the english critic heap their

honour on its brave old simplicity: our national literary flag, which

signalize we while we float, subsequently to flap above the shallow.

one may sigh for it. an ill-fortuned minstrel who have by fateful

direction be bring to see with distinctness, that man be not as much

comprise in external feature as the monkey, will be devoted to the

task of the fuller portraiture.



after his ineffectual catch at the volatile idea, Mr. Radnor find

repose in thought of his daughter and her dear mother. they have beg

he to put on an overcoat this day of bitter wind, or a silken kerchief

for the throat. faithful to the spring, it have be his habit since

boyhood to show upon his person something of the hue of the vernal

month, the white of the daisied meadow, and although he own a light

overcoat to dangle from shoulder at the Opera crush, he decline to

wear it for protection. his gesture of shake and expand whenever

the tender request be urge on he, signify a physical opposition to

the control of garment. mechanically now, while doate in fancy over

the couple beseech he, he loosen the button across his deface

waistcoat, expose a large measure of chest to flaw of a wind barb on

norwegian peak by the brewer of cough and catarrh--horrid woman of the

whistle clout, in the pay of our doctor. he brave they; he starve

the profession. he be that man in fifty thousand who despise hostile

element and go unpunished, calmly erect among a sneeze and tumble

host, as a lighthouse overhead of breezy fleet. the coursing of his

blood be by comparison electrical; he have not the sensation of cold,

other than that of an effort of the element to arouse he; and so quick

be he, through this fine animation, to feel, think, act, that the three

successive tributary of conduct appear as an irreflective flash and

a gamester’s daring in the vein to man who have no deep knowledge of he

and his lightning arithmetic for measure, sound, and decide.



naturally he be among the happy of human creature; he will it so,

with consent of circumstance; a boisterous consent, as when vote be

reckon for a favourite candidate: except on the part of a small

band of black dissentient in a corner, a minute opaque body, devilish

in their irreconcilability, who maintain their struggle to provoke

discord, with a cry disclose the one error of his youth, the sole bad

step chargeable upon his antecedent. but do we listen to they? shall

we not have they turn out? he give the sign for it; and he leave his

buoy constituent to outroar they: and he tell a friend that it

be not, as one may say, an error, although an erratic step: but let we

explain to our bosom friend; it be a step quite unregretted, glory

in; a step deliberately mark, to be do again, be the time renew:

it be a step necessitate (emphatically) by a false precede step;

and have youth to plead for it, in the first instance, youth and

ignorance; and secondly, and o how deeply truly! love. deep true love,

prove by year, be the advocate.



he tell himself at the same time, after lend ear to the advocate’s

exordium and a favourite sentence, that, judge by the Powers (to they

only can he expose the whole skeleton-cupboard of the case), judge by

those clear-sighted Powers, he be exonerated.



to be exonerate by those awful Powers, be to be approve.



as to that, there be no doubt: whom they, all-seeing, discern as they

do, acquit they justify.



whom they justify, they compliment.



they, see all the fact, be not unintelligent of distinction, as

the world be.



what, to they, be the spot of the error?--admitting it as an error.

they know it for a thing of convention, not of Nature. we stand forth to

plead it in proof of an adherence to Nature’s law: we affirm, that far

from a defilement, it be an illumination and stamp of nobility. on the

beloved who share it with we, it be a stamp of the high nobility.

our world have many way for signify its displeasure, but it cannot

brand an angel.



this be another favourite sentence of Love’s grand oration for the

defence. so seductive be it to the Powers who sit in judgement on the

case, that they all, when the sentence come, turn eye upon the angel,

and they smile.



they do not smile on the condemnable.



she, then, be he rebuke, would have strength to uplift he. and who,

call she his own, could be place in second rank among the blissful!



Mr. Radnor could rationally say that he be make for happiness; he

fly to it, he breathe, dispense it. how conceive the clear-sight

celestial Powers as oppose his claim to that estate? not they. he

know, for he have they safe in the locked chamber of his breast, to yield

he subservient response. the world, or puritanic member of it, have

push he to the trial once or twice--or have put on an air of do

so; create a temporary disturbance, end in a merry duet with his

daughter Nesta Victoria: a glorious trio when her mother Natalia, sweet

lily that she be, shake the rainwater from her cup and follow the

good example to shine in the sun.



he have a secret for they.



Nesta’s promising soprano, and her mother’s contralto, and his

baritone--a true baritone, not so well train as their accurate

note--should be rise in spirited union with the curtain of that

secret: there be matter for song and concert, triumph and gratulation

in it. and during the whole passage of the bridge, he have not once

cast thought on a secret so palpitating, the cause of the morning’s

expedition and a long year’s prospect of the present day! it seem to

have be knock clean out of it--punctilioe out, Fenellan might say.

nor have any combination upon the theme of business displace it. just

before the fall, the whole drama of the unfolding of that secret be

brilliant to his eye as a scene on a stage.



he refuse to feel any sensible bruise on his head, with the admission

that he perhaps might think he feel one which be virtually no more than

the feeling of a thought;--what his friend Dr. Peter Yatt would define

as feel a rotifer astir in the curative compartment of a homoeopathic

globule: and a playful fancy may do that or anything. only, Sanity do

not allow the infinitely little to disturb we.



Mr. Radnor have a quaint experience of the effect of the infinitely

little while thread his way to a haberdasher’s shop for new white

waistcoat. under the shadow of the representative statue of City

Corporations and London’s majesty, the figure of Royalty, worshipful in

its marbled redundancy, front the bridge, on the slope where the sea

of fish and fruit below throw up a thin line of their drift, he

stand contemplate the not unamiable, reposefully-jolly, Guelphic

countenance, from the loose jowl to the bent knee, as if it be a

novelty to he; unwilling to trust himself to the roadway he have often

traverse, equally careful that his hesitation should not be see. a

trifle more impressible, he might have imagine the smoky figure and

magnum of pursiness bar the City against he. he could have laugh

aloud at the hypocrisy behind his quiet look of provincial wonderment

at London’s sculptor’s art; and he be partly tickle as well by the

singular fit of timidity enchain he. Cart, omnibus, cab, van,

barrow, donkey-tray, go by in string, break here and there, and he

could not induce his leg to take advantage of the gap; he listen

to a warning that he would be down again if he try it, among those

wheel; and his nerve clutch he, like a troop of household woman, to

keep he from the hazard of an exposure to the horrid crunch, pitiless

as tiger’s tooth; and we may say truly, that once down, or once out of

the rut line, you be food for lion and jackal--the force of the

world will have you in their mandible.



an idea be there too; but it would not accept pursuit.



‘a pretty scud overheard?’ say a voice at his ear.



‘for fine!--to-day at least,’ Mr. Radnor affably reply to a stranger;

and gaze on the face of his friend Fenellan, know the voice, and

laugh: ‘you?’ he straighten his back immediately to cross the road,

dismiss nervousness as a vapour, ask, between a cab and a van:

‘anything do in the City?’ for Mr. Fenellan’s proper station face

Westward.



the reply be defer until they have reach the pavement, when Mr.

Fenellan say: ‘I’ll tell you,’ and look a dubious preface, to his

friend’s thinking.



but it be merely the mental inquiry follow a glance at mud-spot on

the coat.



‘we’ll lunch; lunch with I, I must eat, tell I then,’ say Mr. Radnor,

add within himself: ‘emptiness! want of food!’ to account for recent

ejaculation and qualm. he have not eat for a good four hour.



Fenellan’s tone signify to his feverish sensibility of the moment,

that the matter be personal; and the intimation of a touch on domestic

affair cause sinking in his vacuity, much as though his heart be

have a fall.



he mention the slip on the bridge, to explain his: need to visit a

haberdasher’s shop, and point at the waistcoat.



Mr. Fenellan be compassionate over the ‘poor virgin of the smoky city!’



‘they have their ready-make at these shop--last year’s: perhaps, never

mind, do for the day,’ say Mr. Radnor, impatient for eat, now that

he have speak of it. ‘a basin of turtle; I cann’t wait. a brush of the

coat; mud must be dry by this time. clear turtle, I think, with a bottle

of the Old Veuve. not bad news to tell? you like that Old Veuve?’



‘too well to tell bad news of she,’ say Mr. Fenellan in a manner to

reassure his friend, as he intend. ‘you wouldn’t credit it for the

Spring of the year, without the spotless waistcoat?’



‘something of that, I suppose.’ and so say, Mr. Radnor enter the

shop of his quest, to be compliment by the shopkeeper, while the

attendant climb the ladder to upper stage for white-waistcoat box,

on his being; the first bird of the season; which it please he to

hear; for the small of our gratification in life could give a happy

tone to this brightly-constitute gentleman.









CHAPTER III. OLD VEUVE



they be know at the house of the turtle and the attractive Old

Veuve: a champagne of a sobered sweetness, of a great year, a great age,

count up to the extremer maturity attain by wine of stilly depth;

and their worthy comrade, despite the wanton sparkle, for the promoting

of the state of reverential wonderment in rapture, which an ancient wine

will lead to, well you wot. the silly girly sugary crudity his give

way to womanly suavity, matronly composure, with yet the sparkle; they

ascend; but hue and flavour tell of a soul that have come to a lodgement

there. it conduct the youthful man to temple of dusky thought:

philosopher partake of it be draw by the arm of garlanded nymph

about their neck into the fathomless of inquiry. it present we with

a sphere, for the pursuit of the thing we covet most. it bubble over

mellowness; it have, in the marriage with Time, extract a spice of

individuality from the saccharine: by miracle, one would say, be it

not for our knowledge of the right noble issue of Time when he and

good thing unite. there should be somewhere legend of he and the

wine-flask. there must be meaning to that effect in the mythology,

await unravelment. for the subject open to deep than cellar, and

be a tree with vast ramification of the root and the spread growth,

whereon half if not all the mythic Gods, Inferior and Superior, Infernal

and Celestial, might be show sit in concord, perform in concert,

harmoniously receive sacrificial offering of the black or the

white; and the black not extinguish the fair fellow. tell we of a

certainty that Time have embrace the wine-flask, then may it be assert

(assume the great year for the wine, i.e. combination above) that

a speck of the white within we who drink will conquer, to rise in main

ascension over volume of the black. it may, at a great venture, but

confidently, be say in plain speech, that the Bacchus of auspicious

birth induce ever to the worship of the loftier deity.



think as you will; forbear to come haul up example of malarious man,

in whom these pouring of the golden ray of life breed fog; and be

move, since you be scarcely under an obligation to hunt the meaning,

in tolerance of some dithyrambic inebriety of narration (quivering of

the reverent pen) when we find ourselves enter the circle of a

most magnetic polarity. take it for not bad than accompany choric

flourish, in accord with Mr. Victor Radnor and Mr. Simeon Fenellan at

their sipping of the venerable wine.



seat in a cosy corner, near the grey City window edge with a sooty

maze, they praise the wine, in the neuter and in the feminine; that for

the glass, this for the widow-brand bottle: not as poet hymn;

it be do in the City manner, briefly, part pensively, like man

travel to the utmost bourne of fly flavour (a dell in infinite

nether), and still master of themselves and at home.



such a wine, in its capturing permeation of we, insist on be for a

time a theme.



‘I wonder!’ say Mr. Radnor, completely restore, eye his

half-empty second glass and his boon-fellow.



‘low!’ Mr. Fenellan shake his head.



‘half a dozen dozen leave?’



‘nearer the half of that. and who’s the culprit?’



‘old day! they willn’t let I have another dozen out of the house now.’



‘they’ll never hit on such another discovery in their cellar, unless

they unearth a fifth corner.’



‘I don’t blame they for make the price prohibitive. and sound as

ever!’



Mr. Radnor watch the deliberate constant ascent of bubble through

their rose-topaz transparency. he drink. that notion of the dish of

turtle be an inspiration of the right: he ought always to know it for

the want of replenishment when such a man as he go quake. his late

experience of himself be incredible; but they pass, as the dimple

of the stream. he finish his third glass. the bottle, like the

cellar-wine, be at ebb: unlike the cellar-wine, it could be set flow

again: he prattle, in the happy ignorance of compulsion:



‘Fenellan, remember, I have a sort of right to the wine--to the good I

could get; and this Old Veuve, more than any other, be a bridal wine! we

hear of Giulia Sanfredini’s marriage to come off with the Spanish Duke,

and drink it to the toast of our little Nesta’s godmother. I ‘ve tell

you. we take the girl to the Opera, when quite a little one--that

high:--and I declare to you, it be marvellous! next morning after

breakfast, she plant herself in the middle of the room, and strike

her attitude for song, and positively, almost with the Sanfredini’s

voice--illusion of it, you know,--trills we out more than I could have

believe credible to be recollect by a child. but I’ve tell you the

story. we call she Fredi from that day. I send the diva, with

excuse and compliment, a nuptial present-necklace, roman goldwork,

locket-pendant, contain sunny curl, and below a fine pearl; really

pretty; tell she our ground for the liberty. she reply, accept

the responsible office; touching letter--we find it so; frame in

Fredi’s room, under her godmother’s photograph. Fredi have another

heroine now, though she worship her old one still; she never abandon

her old one. you’ve hear the story over and over!’



Mr. Fenellan nod; he have a tenderness for the garrulity of Old Veuve,

and for the damsel. Chatter on that subject run pleasantly with their

entertainment.



Mr. Radnor meanwhile scribble, and despatch a strip of his note-book,

bear a scrawl of order, to his office. he be now fully himself,

benevolent, combative, gay, alert for amusement or the probeing of

scheme to the quick, weigh the good and the bad in they with his

fine touch on proportion.



‘city dead flat? a monotonous key; but it’s about the same as fetch a

breath after a run; only, true, it last too long--not healthy! Skepsey

will bring I my letter. I be down in the country early this morning,

look over the house, with Taplow, my architect; and he speak fairly

well of the contractor. yes, down at lakeland; and see my first lemon

butterfly in a dell of sunshine, out of the wind, and have half a mind

to catch it for Fredi,--and should have catch it myself, if I have! the

truth be, we three be country bear and breed; we pine in London. good

for a season; you know my old feeling. they be to learn the secret of

lakeland to-morrow. it ‘s great fun; they think I don’t see they’ve have

their suspicion for some time. you say--somebody said--“the eye of a

needle for what they let slip of their secret, and the point of it

for penetrate yours”:--women. but no; my dear soul don’t prick

and bother. and they deal with a man in armour. I carry they down to

Lakelands to-morrow, if the City’s flat.’



‘keep a secret’s the lid on a boiling pot with you,’ Mr. Fenellan

say; and he muse on the profoundness of the flavour at his lip.



‘I do it.’



‘you do: up to burst at the breast.’



‘I keep it from Colney!’



‘as Vesuvius keep it from Palmieri when shake he.’



‘have old Colney an idea of it?’



‘he have be foretell an eruption of an edifice.’



the laugh between they subside to pensiveness.



Mr. Fenellan’s delay in the delivery of his news be eloquent to reveal

the one hateful topic; and this be see, it wax to such increase of

size with the pass second, that prudence call for it.



‘come!’ say Mr. Radnor.



the appeal be understand.



‘nothing very particular. I come into the City to look at a warehouse

they want to mount double guard on. your idea of the fireman’s

night-patrol and wire have do wonder for the office.’



‘I guarantee the City if all my direction be follow.’



Mr. Fenellan’s remark, that he have nothing very particular to tell,

reduce it to the mere touch upon a vexatious matter, which one have

to endure in the ear at time; but it may be postpone. so Mr. Radnor

encourage he to talk of an Insurance Office Investment. where it be

all bog and mist, as in the City to-day, the maxim be, not to take a

step, they agree. whether it be attributable to an unconsumed glut

of the market, or apprehension of a panic, have to be consider. both

gentleman be angry with the Birds on the flag of foreign nation,

which would not imitate a sawdust Lion to couch reposefully. incessantly

they scream and sharpen talon.



‘they crack the City bubble and bladder, at all event,’ Mr. Fenellan

say. ‘but if we let our journal go on make use of they, in the shape

of sham hawk overhead, we shall pay for their one good day of the

game with our loss of the covey. an unstable London’s no world’s

market-place.’



‘no, no; it’s a niggardly national purse, not the journal,’ Mr. Radnor

say. ‘the journal be trading engine. panic be grist to they; so

be war; but they do their duty in warn the taxpayer and rousing

Parliament. Dr. Schlesien’s right: we go on believe that our God

Neptune will do everything for we, and willn’t see that Steam have

paralyze his Trident: good! you and Colney be hard on Schlesien--or

at he, I should say. he’s right: if we willn’t learn that we have become

Continentals, we shall be march over. Laziness, cowardice, he say.’



‘oh, be hang!’ interrupt Fenellan. ‘as much of the former as you

like. he ‘s right about our “individualismus” be another name for

selfishness, and show the usual deficiency in external feature; it’s

an individualism of all of a pattern, as when a mob cut its lucky, each

fellow his own way. well, then, conscript they, and they’ll be all of a

well pattern. the only thing to do, and the cheap. by heaven! it’s

the only honourable thing to do.’



Mr. Radnor disapprove. ‘no conscription here.’



‘not till you’ve get the drop of poison in your blood, in the form of an

army land. that will teach you to catch at the drug.’



‘no, Fenellan! besides they’ve get to land. I guarantee a trusty army

and navy under a contract, at two-third of the present cost. we’ll

start a National Defence Insurance Company after the next panic.’



‘during,’ say Mr. Fenellan, and there be a flutter of laughter at the

unobtrusive hint for seize Dame England in the mood.



both drop a sigh.



‘but you must try and run down with we to Lakelands to-morrow,’ Mr.

Radnor resume on a cheerfuller theme. ‘you have not yet see all I

‘ve do there. and it ‘s a castle with a drawbridge: no exchangeing

of visit, as we do at Craye Farm and at Creckholt; we be there for

country air; we don’t court neighbour at all--perhaps the elect; it

will depend on Nataly’s wish. we can accommodate our Concert-set, and

about thirty or forty more, for as long as they like. you see, that be

my intention--to be independent of neighbouring society. Madame Callet

guarantee dinner or hot supper for eighty--and Armandine be the last

person to be recklessly boasting.--When be it I be think last of

Armandine?’ he ask himself that, as he rub at the back of his head.



Mr. Fenellan be read his friend’s character by the light of his

remark and in opposition to they, after the critical fashion of

intimate who know as well as hear: but it be amiably and trippingly,

on the dance of the wine in his vein.



his look, however, be one that remind; and Mr. Radnor cry: ‘now!

whatever it be!’



‘I have an interview: I assure you,’ Mr. Fenellan interpose to pacify:

‘the small of trifle, and to be expect: I think you ought to

know it:--an interview with her lawyer; office business, increase of

insurance on one of her City warehouse.’



‘speak her name, speak the woman’s name; we’re talk like a pair of

conspirator,’ exclaim Mr. Radnor.



‘he inform I that Mrs. Burman have hear of the new mansion.’



‘my place at Lakelands?’



Mr. Radnor’s clear-water eye harden to stony as their vision run

along the consequence of she having hear it.



‘early this time!’ he add, thrum on the table, and thump with

knuckle. ‘I make my stand at Lakelands for good! nothing mortal move

I!’



‘that butler of hers--’



‘Jarniman, you mean: he’s her butler, yes, the scoundrel--h’m-pah!

Heaven forgive I! she’s an honest woman at least; I wouldn’t rob she of

her little: fifty-nine or sixty next September, fifteenth of the month!

with the constitution of a break drug-bottle, poor soul! she hear

everything from Jarniman: he catch wind of everything. all foresee,

Fenellan, foresee. I have make my stand at Lakelands, and there’s my

flag till it’s haul down over Victor Radnor. London kill Nataly as

well as Fredi--and I: that be--I can use the word to you--I get back

to primal innocence in the country. we all three have the feeling.

you’re a man to understand. my beast, and the wild flower,

hedge-bank, and star. Fredi’s poetess will tell you. quiet water

reflect. I should feel it in Paris as well, though they have

nightingale in their Bois. it’s the rustic I want to bathe I; and I

have the feeling at school, bite at Horace. well, this be my Sabine

Farm, rather on a large scale, for the sake of friend. come, and pure

air, water from the spring, walk and ride in lane, high sand-lane;

Nataly love they; Fredi worship the old root of tree: she call they

the face of those weedy sandy lane. and the two dear soul on their

own estate, Fenellan! and their poultry, cow, cream. and a certain

influence one have in the country socially. I make my stand on a

home--not empty punctilio.’



Mr. Fenellan repeat, in a pause, ‘punctilio,’ and not emphatically.



‘don’t bawl the word,’ say Mr. Radnor, at the drum of whose ear it

rang and sing. ‘here in the City the woman’s harmless; and here,’ he

strike his breast. ‘but she can shoot and hit another through I. ah,

the witch!--poor wretch! poor soul! only, she’s malignant. I could

swear! but Colney ‘s right for once in something he say about

oaths--“dropping empty bucket,” or something.’



‘“empty bucket to haul up impotent demon, whom we have to pay as

heavily as the ready devil himself,”’ Mr. Fenellan supply the phrase.

‘only, the moment old Colney moralize, he’s what the critic call

sententious. we’ve all a parlous lot too much pulpit in we.’



‘come, Fenellan, I don’t think...’



‘oh, yes, but it’s true of I too.’



‘you reserve it for your enemy.’



‘I ‘d like to distract it a bit from the big of ‘em.’ he point

finger at the region of the heart.



‘here we have Skepsey,’ say Mr. Radnor, observe the rapid approach

of a lean small figure, that in about the time of a straight-aim

javelin’s cast, shoot from the doorway to the table.









CHAPTER IV. the SECOND BOTTLE



this little dart of a man come to a stop at a respectful distance from

his master, have the look of an arrest needle in mechanism. his lean

slip of face be an illumination of vivacious grey from the quick

of prominent large eye. he place his master’s letter legibly on the

table, and fall to his posture of attention, alert on stiff leg, the

hand like sucking-cub at play with one another.



Skepsey wait for Mr. Fenellan to notice he.



‘how about the Schools for boxing?’ that gentleman say.



deplore in motion the announcement he have to make, Skepsey reply: ‘I

have a difficulty in get the plan treat seriously: a person of no

station:--it do not appear of national importance. lady be against.

they decline their signature; and lady have great influence; because

of the blood; which we know be very slight, rather healthy than not; and

it could be prove for the advantage of the frailer sex. they seem to be

unaware of their own interest--lady. the contention all around we be

with ignorance. my plan be write; I have show it, and signature

of gentleman, to many of our City notable favourable in most case:

gentleman of the Stock Exchange highly. the clergy and the medical

profession be quite with I.’



‘the surgical, perhaps you mean?’



‘also, sir. the clergy strongly.’



‘on the ground of--what, Skepsey?’



‘Morality. I have fully explain to them:--after his work at the desk

all day, the young City clerk want refreshment. he need it, must

have it. I propose to catch he on his way to his music-hall and other

place, and take he to one of our establishment. a short term of

instruction, and he would find a pleasure in the glove; it would

delight he more than excess-beer and tobacco. the female in her right

place, certainly.’ Skepsey supplicate honest interpretation of his

hearer, and pursue,



‘it would improve his physical strength, at the same time add to his

sense of personal dignity.’



‘would you teach female as well--to divert they from their

frivolity?’



‘that would have to be think over, sir. it would be well for they

than use their nail.’



‘I don’t know, Skepsey: I’m rather a Conservative there.’



‘yes; with regard to the female, sir: I confess, my scheme do not

include they. they dance; that be a healthy exercise. one have only to

say, that it do not add to the national force, in case of emergency.

I look to that. and I be particular in propose an exercise independent

of--I have to say--sex. not that there be harm in sex. but we be for

training. I hope my meaning be clear?’



‘quite. you would have box with the glove to be a kind of monastic

recreation.’



‘recreation be the word, sir; I have often admire it,’ say Skepsey,

blink, unsure of the signification of monastic.



‘I be a bit of a boxer once,’ Mr. Fenellan say, conscious of height

and breadth in measure the wisp of a figure before he.



‘something might be do with you still, sir.’



Skepsey pay he the encomium after a respectful summary of his gift in

a glimpse. Mr. Fenellan bow to he.



Mr. Radnor raise head from the note he be pencil upon letter

peruse.



‘Skepsey’s craze: regeneration of the english race by box--nucleus of

a national army?’



‘to face an enemy at close quarter--it teach that, sir. I have always

be of opinion, that courage may be teach. I do not say heroism. and

set aside for a moment thought of an army, we create more valuable

citizen. protection to the weak in street and by-place--shock

example of ruffian maltreat woman, in view of a crowd.’



‘one strong man be an overmatch for your mob,’ say Mr. Fenellan.



Skepsey tone his assent to the diminish thinness where a suspicion

of the negative begin to wind upon a distant horn.



‘know his own intention; and before an ignorant mob:--strong, you

say, sir? I venture my word that a decent lad, with science, would beat

he. it be a question of the study and practice of first principle.’



‘if you be to see a rascal giant mishandle a woman?’ Skepsey

conjure the scene by bend his head and peer abstractedly, as if

over spectacle.



‘I would beg he to abstain, for his own sake.’



Mr. Fenellan know that the little fellow be not boast.



‘my brother Dartrey have a lesson or two from you in the first

principle, I think?’



‘Captain Dartrey be an athlete, sir: exceedingly quick and clever; a

hard boxer to beat.’



‘you will not call he captain when you see he; he have dismiss the

army.’



‘I much regret it, sir, much, that we have lose he. Captain Dartrey

Fenellan be a beautiful fencer. he give I some instruction; unhappily,

I have to acknowledge, too late. it be a beautiful art. Captain Dartrey

say, the French excel at it. but it ask for a weapon, which nature have

not give: whereas the fist...’



‘so,’ Mr. Radnor hand note and paper to Skepsey: ‘no sign of life?’



‘it be not yet see in the City, sir.’



‘the first principle of commercial activity have retreat to earth’s

mazy penetralia, where no tide be! be it not so, Skepsey?’ say

Mr. Fenellan, whose initiative and exuberance in loquency have be

restrain by a slight oppression, know to guest; especially to the

guest in the early process of his magnification and illumination by

virtue of a grand old wine; and also when the news he have to communicate

may be a stir to unpleasant heap. the shine lip and eye of

his florid face now proclaim speech, with his puckish fancy

jack-o’-lanterning over it. ‘business hang to swing at every City door,

like a ragshop Doll, on the gallow of overproduction. stock and share

be hollow nuts not a squirrel of the lot would stop to crack for sight

of the milky kernel moulder to beard.



Percentage, like a cabman without a fare, have go to sleep inside his

vehicle. dividend may just be see by tiptoe: stockholder, twinkle

heel over the far horizon. too true!--and our merchant, broker,

banker, projector of company, parade our City to remind we of the

poor steamed fellow troop out of the burst-boiler-room of the big

ship Leviathan, in old year; a shade or two pale than the crowd o’ the

passenger, apparently alive and conversible, but corpse, all of they

to lie their length in fifteen minute.’



‘and you, Fenellan?’ cry his host, inspire for a second bottle by the

lovely nonsense of a voluble friend wind up to the mark.



‘Doctor of the ship! with this prescription!’ Mr. Fenellan hold up his

glass.



‘empty?’



Mr. Fenellan make it completely so. ‘confident!’ he affirm.



an order be toss to the waiter, and both gentleman screw their

lip in relish of his heavy consent to score off another bottle from the

narrow list.



‘at the office in forty minute,’ Skepsey’s master nod to he and

shoot he forth, call he back: ‘by the way, in case a man name

Jarniman should ask to see I, you turn he to the rightabout.’



Skepsey repeat: ‘Jarniman!’ and fly.



‘a good servant,’ Mr. Radnor say. ‘few of we think of our country

so much, whatever may be say of the specific he offer. Colney have

impress he somehow immensely: he study to write too; push to

improve himself; altogether a worthy creature.’



the second bottle appear. the waiter, in sincerity a reluctant

executioner, heighten his part for the edification of the admiring

couple.



‘take heart, Benjamin,’ say Mr. Fenellan; ‘it’s only the bottle die;

and we be the angel above to receive the spirit.’



‘I’m think of the house,’ Benjamin reply. he tell they that again.



‘it ‘s the loss of the fame of have the wine, that he mourn. but,

Benjamin,’ say Mr. Fenellan, ‘the fame enter into the partaker of it,

and we spread it, and perpetuate it for you.’



‘that don’t keep a house upright,’ return Benjamin.



Mr. Fenellan murmur to himself: ‘true enough, it ‘s elegy--though we

perform it through a trumpet; and there’s not a doubt of our be down

or having knock the world down, if we’re loudly praise.’



Benjamin wait to hear approval sound on the lip uncertain as a

woman be a wine of ticklish age. the gentleman nod, and he retire.



a second bottle, just as good as the first, should, one thoughtlessly

suppose, procure we a similar reposeful and excursive enjoyment, as of

man lie on their back and fly imagination like a kite. the effect

be quite other. Mr. Radnor drink hastily and speak with heat: ‘you tell

I all? tell I that!’



Mr. Fenellan gather himself together; he sip, and relax his

bracing. but there really be a bit more to tell: not much, be it? not

likely to puff a gale on the voluptuous indolence of a man draw along

by nereid over sunny sea-wave to behold the birth of the Foam-Goddess?

‘accord to Carling, her lawyer; that is, he hint she meditate a

blow.’



‘Mrs. Burman mean to strike a blow?’



‘the lady.’



‘do he think I fear any--do he mean a blow with a weapon? be it a

legal...? at last? Fenellan!’



‘so I fancy I understand.’



‘but can the good woman dream of that as a blow to strike and hurt, for

a punishment?--that’s her one aim.’



‘she may have her hallucination.’



‘but a blow--what a word for it! but it’s life to we life! it’s the blow

we’ve pray for. why, you know it! let her strike, we bless she. we’ve

never have an ill feeling to the woman; utterly the contrary--pity, pity,

pity! let she do that, we’re at her foot, my Nataly and I. if you know

what my poor girl suffer! she ‘s a saint at the stake. chiefly on

behalf of her family. Fenellan, you may have a sort of guess at my

fortune: I’ll own to luck; I put in a claim to courage and calculation.’



‘you’ve be a bulwark to your friend.’



‘all, Fenellan, all-stock, share, mine, company, industry at

home and--abroad--all, at a sweep, to have the woman strike that blow!

cheerfully would I begin to build a fortune over again--singe! ha! the

woman have threaten it before. it’s probably feline play with we.’



his chin take support, he frown.



‘you may have touch she.’



‘she willn’t be touch, and she willn’t be drive. what ‘s the secret of

she? I cann’t guess, I never could. she’s a riddle.’



‘riddle with wig and false tooth have to be take and shake for the

ardently seek secret to reveal itself,’ say Mr. Fenellan.



his picture, with the skeleton issue of any shaking, smite Mr. Radnor’s

eye, they turn over. ‘Oh!--her charm! she have a desperate belief

in her beauty. the woman ‘s undoubtedly charitable; she’s not without a

mind--sort of mind: well, it show no crack till it’s put to use. heart!

yes, against I she have plenty of it. they say she use to be court;

she talk of it: “my courtier, Mr. Victor!” there, heaven forgive I,

I wouldn’t mock at she to another.’



‘it look as if she be only inexorably human,’ say Mr. Fenellan,

crush a delicious gulp of the wine, that foam along the channel to

flavour. ‘we read of the tester of a bandit-bed; and it flatten unwary

recumbent to pancakes. an escape from the like of that seem pleadable,

should be: none but the drowsy would fail to jump out and run, or the

insane.’



Mr. Radnor be take with the illustration of his case. ‘for the sake of

my sanity, it be! to preserve my.... but any word make nonsense of

it. could--I must ask you--could any sane man--you be abroad in those

day, horrible day! and never meet she: I say, could you consent to

be tie--I admit the vow, ceremony, so forth-tie to--I be

barely twenty-one: I put it to you, Fenellan, be it in reason an

engagement--which be, I take it, a mutual plight of faith, in good

faith; that be, with capacity on both side to keep the engagement:

between the man you know I be in youth and a more than middle-aged

woman crazy up to the edge of the cliff--as Colney say half the world

be, and she positively be when her spite be rouse. no, Fenellan, I have

nothing on my conscience with regard to the woman. she have wealth: I

leave she not one penny the bad for--but she be not one to reckon it,

I own. she could be generous, be, with her money. if she have strike

this blow--I know she think of it: or if she would strike it now, I

could not only forgive she, I could beg forgiveness.’



a sight of that extremity fetched prickle to his forehead.



‘you’ve bear your part bravely, my friend.’



‘I!’ Mr. Radnor shrug at mention of his personal burden. ‘praise my

Nataly if you like! make for one another, if ever two in this world! you

know we both, and do you doubt it? the sin would have be for we two to

meet and--but enough when I say, that I be she, she I, till death and

beyond it: that’s my firm faith. Nataly teach I the religion of

life, and you may learn what that be when you fall in love with a woman.

eighteen-nineteen-twenty year!’



tear fall from he, two drop. he blink, bugle in his throat, eye

his watch, and smile: ‘the finishing glass! we should have have to put

Colney to bed. few man stand their wine. you and I be not lamed by it;

we can drink and do business: my first experience in the City be,

that the power to drink--keep a sound head--conduce to the doing of

business.’



‘it’s a pleasant way of instruct man to submit to their conqueror.’



‘if it double the energy, mind.’



‘not if it fiddle inside. I confess to that effect upon I. I’ve a

waltz go on, like the snake with the tail in his mouth, eternal; and

it willn’t allow of a thought upon Investments.’



‘consult I to-morrow,’ say Mr. Radnor, somewhat pained for having

inconsiderately mislead the man he have hitherto helpfully guide. ‘you’ve

look at the warehouse?’



‘that’s perform.’



‘make a practice of get over as much of your business in the early

morning as you well can.’



Mr. Radnor add hint of advice to a frail humanity he be indulgent,

the giant speak in good fellowship. it would have be to have strain

his meaning, for purpose of sarcasm upon he, if one have take he to

boast of a personal exemption from our common weakness.



he stop, and laugh: ‘now I ‘m pump my pulpit-eh? you come with

we to Lakelands. I drive the lady down to my office, ten A.M.: if it’s

fine; train half-past. we take a basket. by the way, I have no letter

from Dartrey last mail.’



‘he have bury his wife. it happen to some man.’



Mr. Radnor stand gaze. he ask for the name of the place of the

burial. he hear without seize it. a simulacrum spectre-spark of

hopefulness shoot up in his imagination, glow and quiver, darken

at the utterance of the dutch syllable, leave a tinge of witless

envy. Dartrey--Fenellan have bury the wife whose behaviour vex and

dishonour he: and it be in Africa! one would have to go to Africa

to be free of the galling. but Dartrey have go, and he be free!--The

strange faint freak of our sensation when strike to leap and throw off

their load after a long affliction, play these disorderly prank on the

brain; and they be faint, but they come in number, they be recur,

always in ambush. we do not speak of they: we have not word to stamp

the indefinite thing; generally we should leave they unspoken if we have

the word; we know they as out of reason: they haunt we, pluck at we,

fret we, nevertheless.



Dartrey free, he be relieve of the murderous drama incessantly in the

mind of shackle man.



it seem like one of the miracle of a divine intervention, that

Dartrey should be free, suddenly free; and free while still a youngish

man. he be in himself a wonderful fellow, the pick of his country

for vigour, gallantry, trustiness, high-mindedness; his heavenly good

fortune deck he as a prodigy.



‘no harm to the head from that fall of your?’ Mr. Fenellan say.



‘none.’ Mr. Radnor withdraw his hand from head to hat, clap it on and

cry cheerily: ‘now to business’; as man may, who have confidence in

their ability to concentrate an instant attention upon the substantial.

‘you dine with we. the usual quartet: Peridon, Pempton, Colney, Yatt, or

Catkin: Priscilla Graves and Nataly--the Rev. Septimus; Cormyn and his

wife: Young Dudley Sowerby and I--flute: he have precision, as naughty

Fredi say, when some one speak of expression. in the course of the

evening, Lady Grace, perhaps: you like she.’



‘human nature in the upper circle be particularly likeable.’



‘Fenellan,’ say Mr. Radnor, embolden to judge hopefully of his

fortune by mere pressure of the thought of Dartrey’s, ‘I put it to

you: would you say, that there be anything this time behind your friend

Carling’s report?’



although it have not be phrase as a report, Mr. Fenellan’s answer

look and gesture, and a run of indiscriminate word, enrol it in that

form, greatly to the inspiriting of Mr. Radnor.



Old Veuve in one, to the soul of Old Veuve in the other, they recall

a past day or two, touch the sky; and merriment or happiness in

the time behind they hold a mirror to the present: or the hour of the

reverse of happiness work the same effect by contrast: so that notion

of the singular election of we by Dame Fortune, spring like vinous

bubble. for it be write, that however powerful you be, you shall not

take the Winegod on board to entertain he as a simple passenger;

and you may captain your vessel, you may pilot it, and keep to your

reckoning, and steer for all the port you have a mind to, even to

do profitable exchange with Armenian and Jew, and still you shall do

the something more, which prove that the Winegod be on board: he be the

pilot of your blood if not the captain of your thought.



Mr. Fenellan be unused to the copious outpouring of Victor Radnor’s

confidence upon his domestic affair; and the unwonted excitement of

Victor’s manner of speech would have perplex he, have there not be

such a fiddling of the waltz inside he.



Payment for the turtle and the bottle of Old Veuve be perform

apart with Benjamin, while Simeon Fenellan stroll out of the

house, question a tumbled mind as to what description of suitable

entertainment, which would be dance and flirt and fal-lallery in

the season of youth, London City could provide near meridian hour for

a man of middle age carry his bottle of champagne, like a guest of an

old-fashioned wedding-breakfast. for although he could stand his wine

as well as his friend, his friend’s potent capacity martially after the

feast to buckle to business at a sign of the clock, be beyond he. it

point to one of the embodied element, hot from Nature’s workshop. it

tell of the endurance of power, that partly explain the successful,

astonishing career of his friend among a people make urgent, if

unequal, demand perpetually upon stomach and head.









CHAPTER V. the LONDON WALK WESTWARD



in that nationally interesting Poem, or Dramatic Satire, once famous,

the rajah in LONDON (London, Limbo and Sons, 1889), now obliterate

under the long wash of Press-matter, the reflection--not unknown to

philosophical observer, and natural perhaps in the mind of an oriental

Prince--produce by his observation of the march of London citizen

Eastward at morn, Westward at eve, attribute their practice to a

survival of the zoroastrian form of worship. his Minister, favourable

to the people or for the sake of foster an idea in his Master’s head,

remark, that they show more than the fidelity of the sunflower to her

God. the Rajah, it would appear, frown interrogatively, in the princely

fashion, accuse he of obscureness of speech:--princes and the loud

member of the grey public be fraternally instant to spurn at the whip

of that which they do not immediately comprehend. it be explain by the

Minister: not even the flower, he say, would hold constant, as they,

to the constantly unseen--a trebly cataphractic Invisible. the Rajah

profess curiosity to know how it be that the singular people nourish

their loyalty, since they cannot attest to the continued being of the

object in which they put their faith. he be inform by his prostrate

servant of a settle habit they have of diligently seek their

divinity, hide above, below; and of copiously take inside they dose

of what be deny to their external vision: thus they fortify credence

chemically on an abundance of meat and liquor; fire they eat, and they

drink fire; they become consequently instinct with fire. necessarily

therefore they believe in fire. believe, they worship. worship,

they march Eastward at morn, Westward at eve. for that way lie the key,

this way the cupboard, of the supply, their fuel.



accord to Stage direction, the rajah and his MINISTER enter a

Gin-Palace.--It be to witness a service that they have learn to

appreciate as anglicanly religious.



on the step of the return to their indian clime, they speak of the

hat sect, which be most, or most commercially, succoured and fatten

by our rule there: they wave adieu to the conquering Islanders, as to

‘parsee beneath a cloud.’



the two be see last on the deck of the vessel, in perusal of a medical

pamphlet compose of statistic and sketch, tracery, horrid blot,

diagram with number refer to note, of the various malady cause

by the prolong prosecution of that form of worship.



‘but can they suffer so and live?’ exclaim the Rajah, vex by the

physical sympathetic twinge which set he wince.



‘science,’ his Minister answer, ‘take they up where Nature, in pity

of their martyrdom, drop they. they do not live; they be engine,

insensible thing of repair and patch; insteame to pursue their

infuriate course, to the one end of exhausting supply for the renewing

of they, on peril of an instant suspension if they deviate a step or

stop: nor do they.’



the Rajah be of opinion, that he sail home with the key of the riddle

of their power to vanquish. in some apparent allusion to an indian story

of a married couple who successfully make their way, he account for

their solid and resistless advance, resemble that of--



             the doubly-wed man and wife,

        pledge to each other and against the world

        with mutual union.



one would like to think of the lengthened tide-flux of pedestrian

citizen face South-westward, as be draw by devout attraction to

our nourishing luminary: at the hour, mark, when the Norland cloud-king,

after a day of wild invasion, sit he on his restful bank of bluefish

smack-o’-cheek red above Whitechapel, to spy where his last puff of icy

javelin pierce and dismember the vapoury masse in cluster about

the circle of flame descend upon the great and most elevated of

Admirals at the head of the Strand, with illumination of smoke-plume

chimney, house-roof, window-pane, weather-vane, monument and

pedimental monster, and omnibus umbrella. one would fair believe that

they advance admire; they be assuredly make handsome by the beam.

no long mere concurrent atom of the furnace of business (from

coal-dust to spark, rush, as it be, on respiratory blast of an

enormous engine’s centripetal and centrifugal energy), their step be

leisurely to meet the rosy Dinner, which be ever a see-saw with the God

of Light in his fall; the mask of the noble human visage upon they

be not roughen, as at midday, by those knot hard ridge of the

scrambler’s hand see from forehead down to jaw; when indeed they have

all the appearance of sour scientific production. and unhappily for

the national portrait, in the Poem quote, the Rajah’s Minister choose

an hour between morning and meridian, or at least before an astonish

luncheon have come to composure inside their person, for draw his

Master’s attention to the quaint similarity of feature in the unit of

the busy antish congregate they have travel so far to visit and to

study:



               these Britons wear

        the driven and perplexed look of man

        Begotten hastily ‘twixt business hour



it could not have be late afternoon.



these Orientals should have see they, with Victor Radnor among they,

front the smoky splendour of the sunset. in April, the month of

pile and hurried cloud, it be a rape of the Sabines overhead from

all quarter, either one of the wind brawnily larcenous; and London,

smoke royally to the open sky, build image of a dusty epic fray

for possession of the portly dame. there be immensity, swinge motion,

collision, dusky richness of colouring, to the sight; and to the mind

idea. London present it. if we can allow ourselves a moment for not

inquire scrupulously (you will do it by inhale the aroma of the

ripe kitchen hour), here be a noble harmony of heaven and the earth of

the work of man, speak a grander tongue than barren sea or wood or

wilderness. just a moment; it go; as, when a well-attune barrel-organ

in a street have draw we to recollection of the Opera or Italy, another

harshly crash, and the postman knock at door, and perchance a

costermonger cry his mash of fruit, a beggar woman wail her hymn. for

the pinched be here, the dinnerless, the weedy, the gutter-growth,

the force repress they. that grand tongue of the giant City

inspire none human to bardic eulogy while we let those discord be. an

embitter Muse of Reason prompt her victim to the composition of

the adulatory Essay and of the lead article, that she may satiate an

angry irony ‘upon those who pay fee for their filling with the stuff.

song of praise she do not permit. a moment of satisfaction in a

strike picture be accord, and no more. for this London, this

England, Europe, world, but especially this London, be rather a thing

for hospital operation than for poetic rhapsody; in aspect, too,

streaked scarlet and pock-pit under the most cumbrous of jewelled

tiara; a titanic work of long-tolerate pygmy; of whom the leader,

until sorely discomforte in body and doubtful in soul, will give

gold and labour, will impose restriction upon activity, to maintain

a conservatism of disease. mind be absent, or somewhere so low down

beneath material accumulation that it be inexpressive, powerless to

drive the ponderous bulk to such excising, purgeing, purifying as

might--as may, we will suppose, render it acceptable, for a theme of

panegyric, to the Muse of Reason; ultimately, with her consent, to the

Spirit of Song.



but first there must be the cleansing. when Night have fall upon

London, the Rajah remark:



        Monogamic Societies present

        a decent visage and a hideous rear.



his Minister (satirically, or in sympathetic Conservatism) would

have they not to move on, that they may preserve among beholder the

impression of their handsome frontage. night, however, will come; and

they, adore the decent face, be move on, make to expose what the

Rajah see. behind his courteousness, he be an antagonistic observer of

his conqueror; he push his question far than the need for they;

his Minister the same; apparently to retain the discountenanced people

in their state of exposure. up to the time of the explanation of the

puzzle on board the depart vessel (on the road to Windsor, at the

Premier’s reception, in the cell of the Police, in the presence of the

Magistrate-whose crack of a totally inverse decision upon their

case, when he become acquainted with the title and station of

these imputedly peccant, refresh they), they hold debate over the

mysterious contrariety of a people profess in one street what they

confound in the next, and practise by day a demureness that yell with

the cat of the tile at night.



grant all that, it be a transient novelist’s business to please

the light-wing host which live for the hour, and give he his only

chance of half of it, let he identify himself with they, in keep to

the quadrille on the surface and shirk the disagreeable.



cloud of high colour above London City be as the light of the Goddess

to lift the angry heroic head over human. they gloriously transfigure.

a Murillo beggar be not more precious than sight of London in any of the

street admit coloured cloud-scene; the cunning of the sun’s hand

so speak to we. and if haply down an alley some olive mechanic of

street-organ have quicken little child’s leg to rhythmic footing,

they strike on thought braver than pastoral. Victor Radnor, lover of

the country though he be, would have be the first to say it. he

would indeed have say it too emphatically. open London as a theme, to a

citizen of London ardent for the clear air out of it, you have rouse

an orator; you have certainly fire a magazine, and must listen to his

reminiscence of one of its paragraph or page.



the figure of the hurtle fair one in sky be wreathe Nelson’s

cocked hat when Victor, distinguishably bright-face amid a crowd of

the irradiate, emerge from the tideway to cross the square, have

thought upon Art, which be due rather to the suggestive proximity of

the National Gallery than to the flemish moulding of cloud-form under

venetian brush. his purchase of picture have be his unhappiest

venture. he have rely and repose on the dicta of newspaper critic;

who be sometimes unanimous, and be then take for guide, and be

fatal. he be lead to the conclusion that our modern-laud picture do

not ripen. they have a chance of it, if abuse. but who think of

buy the abused? exalt by the critic, they have, during the day

of exhibition, a glow, a significance or a fun, abandon they where

examination be close and constant, and the critic’s trumpet-note

disperse to the thinness of the fee for his blowing. as to foreign

picture, classic picture, Victor have know his purse to leap for a

Raphael with a history in stage of descent from the Master, and critic

to swarm: a Raphael of the dealer, expose to be condemn by

the critic, universally deride. a real Raphael in your house be

aristocracy to the roof-tree. but the wealthy trader will reach to title

before he may hope to get the real Raphael or a Titian. yet he be the

one who would, it may be, after enjoyment of his prize, bequeath it to

the nation--present to the nation by VICTOR MONTGOMERY RADNOR. there

stand the letter in gilt; and he have a thrill of his generosity;

for few be the generous act he could not perform; and if an object

haunt the deed, it come of his trader’s habit of mind.



he revel in benevolent project of gift to the nation, which

would coat a sensitive name. Say, an ornamental City Square, flower,

fountain, afternoon band of music--comfortable seat in it, and a

shelter, and a ready supply of good cheap coffee or tea. Tobacco? why

not roll of honest tobacco! nothing so much soothe the labourer. a

volume of plan for the benefit of London smoke out of each ascending

pile in his brain. London be at night a moaning outcast round the

policeman’s’ leg. what of an all-night-long, cosy, brightly light,

odoriferous coffee-saloon for rich or poor, on the model of the

hospitable Paduan? owner of a penny, no soul among we shall be rightly

an outcast....



dream of this kind be take at time by wealthy people as a cordial

at the bar of benevolent intention. but Victor be not the man to steal

his refreshment in that know style. he mean to make deed of they, as

far as he could, consider their immense extension; and except for the

sensitive social name, he be of single-minded purpose.



turn to the step of a chemist’s shop to get a prescription make up

for his Nataly’s doctoring of her domestic, he be arrest by a rap

on his elbow; and no one be near; and there could not be a doubt of

the blow--a sharp hard stroke, spare the funny-bone, but ring. his

head, at the punctilio bump, throb responsively--owe to which

or indifference to the prescription, as of no instant requirement,

he pursue his course, resemble mentally the wanderer along a misty

beach, who hear cannon across the water.



he certainly have feel it. he remember the shock: he could not remember

much of pain. how about intimation? his asking cause a smile.



very soon the riddle answer itself. he have come into view of the

diminutive marble cavalier of the infantile cerebellum; recollect a

couplet from the pen of the disrespectful Satirist Peter, he think of

a fall: his head and his elbow respond simultaneously to the thought.



all be explain save his consequent rightabout from the chemist’s

shop: and that belong to the minor involution of circumstance and

the will. it pass like a giver’s wrinkle. he read the placard of the

Opera; remind himself of the day when it be the single Opera-house;

and now we have two-or three. we have also a distract couple of

Clowns and Pantaloons in our pantomime: though Colney say that the

multiplication of the pantaloon be a distinct advance to representative

truth--and bother Colney! two columbine also. we forbear to speak

of man, but where be the boy who can set his young heart upon two

columbine at once! Victor feel the boy within he cold to both: and in

his youth he have doate on the solitary twirling spangle lovely Fairy.

the tale of a delicate lady dancer leap as the kernel out of a nut

from the arm of Harlequin to the legalized embrace of a wealthy brewer,

and thenceforth live, by repute, with unagitated leg, as holy

a matron, despite her starry past, as any to be show in a country

breed the like abundantly, have always delight he. it seem a

reconcilement of oppose station, a defeat of Puritanism. ay, and poor

women!--women in the worse plight under the Puritan’s eye. they may be

err and good: yes, find the man to lift they the one step up! read

the history of the error. but presently we shall teach the Puritan to

act by the standard of his religion. all be come right--must come

right. Colney shall be confound.



Hereupon Victor hop on to Fenellan’s hint regard the design of

Mrs. Burman.



his Nataly might have to go through a short sharp term of

scorch--Godiva to the gossip.



she would come out of it glorify. she would be reconcile with her

family. with her story of her devotion to the man love she, the world

would know she for the heroine she be: a bear lady, in appearance

and manner an empress among woman. it be a story to be plead in

any court, before the stern public. Mrs. Burman have throw she into

temptation’s way. it be a story to touch the heart, as none other ever

write of over all the earth be there a woman equal his Nataly!



and their Nesta would have a dowry to make princess envious:--she

would inherit... he run up an arithmetical column, down to a line of

figure in addition, during three pace of his foot. Dartrey Fenellan

have say of little Nesta once, that she have a nature pure and sparkling

as mid-sea foam. happy he who win she! but she be one of the young

woman who be easily pleased and hardly enthral. her father strain

his mind for the shape of the man to accomplish the feat. whether she

have an ideal of a youth in her feminine head, be beyond his guessing.

she be not the damsel to weave a fairy waistcoat for the identical

prince, and try it upon all comer to discover he: as be do by

some; excuseably, if we would be just. Nesta be of the elect, for whom

excuse have not to be make. she would probably like a flute-player

well; because her father play the flute, and she love he--laughably

a little maiden’s reason! her father laugh at she.



along the street of Clubs, where a bruise fancy may see black ball

raining, the narrow way between ducal mansion offer prospect of the

sweep of greensward, all but touch up to the sunset to draw it to the

dance.



formerly, in his very early youth, he clasp a dream of gain way

to an alliance with one of these great surround house; and he have

a passion for the acquisition of money as a mean. and it have to be

confess, he have sacrifice in youth a slice of his youth, to gain it

without labour--usually a costly purchase. it have end disastrously:

or say, a running of the engine off the rail, and a speedy

re-establishment of traffic. could it be a loss, that have lead to the

winning of his Nataly? can we really loathe the first of the step when

the one in due sequence, cousin to it, be a blessedness? if we have be

right to health by a medical draught, we be bind to be respectful to

our drug. and so we be, in spite of Nature’s wry face and shiver at

a mention of what we go through during those day, those horrible

days:--hide they!



the smothering of they from sight set they sound he have to listen.

Colney Durance accuse he of enter into bond with somebody’s

grandmother for the simple sake of browse on her thousand: a picture

of himself too abhorrent to Victor to permit of any sort of acceptance.

consequently he strike away to the other extreme of those who have a

choice in mixed motive: he protest that compassion have be the cause

of it. look at the circumstance now, he could see, allow for human

frailty-perhaps a wish to join the rank of the wealthy compassion for

the woman as the principal motive. how often have she not in those old

day praise his generosity for ally his golden youth to her wither

age--Mrs. Burman’s very word! and she be a generous woman or have be:

she be generous in say that. well, and she be generous in have

a well-bear, well-breed beautiful young creature like Nataly for

her companion, when it be a case of need for the dear girl; and

compassionately insist, against remonstrance: they be speak by

he, though they be but partial. how, then, have she become--at least,

how be it that she could continue to behave as the vindictive Fury who

persecute remorselessly, would give no peace, poison the well round

every place where he and his dear one pitch their tent!



but at last she have come to charity, as he could well believe. not too

late! victor’s feeling of gratitude to Mrs. Burman assure he it be

genuine because of his genuine conviction, that she have determine to

end she incomprehensibly lengthen day in reconcilement with he: and

he have always be ready to ‘forget and forgive.’ a truly beautiful old

phrase! it thrill off the most susceptible of man.



his well-keep secret of the spacious country-house dance he behind a

sober demeanour from one park to another; and along beside the drive

to view of his townhouse--unbeloved of the inhabitant, although by

acknowledgement it have, as Fredi funnily drawl, to express her sense

of justice in depreciation, ‘good accommodation.’ Nataly be at home,

he be sure. time to be dress: sun set at six-forty, he say, and

glance at the stain West, with an accompany vision of outspread

primrose flood bank of shadowy field near Lakelands.



he cross the road and rang.



upon the opening of the door, there be a cascade of muslin downstair.

his darling Fredi stand out of it, a dramatic Undine.









CHAPTER VI. NATALY



‘Il segreto!’ the girl cry commandingly, with a forefinger at his

breast.



he cross arm, tone in similar recitative, with anguish, ‘dove

volare!’



they join in half a dozen bar of operatic duet.



she fly to he, embrace and kiss.



‘I must have it, my papa! unlock. I’ve be spy the bird on its

hedgerow nest so long! and this morning, my own dear cunning papa,

ben’t you as bare as winter twig? “tomorrow perhaps we will have a

day in the country.” to go and see the nest? only, please, not a big

one. a real nest; where mama and I can wear dairymaid’s hat and apron

all day--the style you like; and strike root. we’ve be tear away two

or three time: twice, I know.’



‘fix, this time; nothing shall tear we up,’ say her father, move on

to the stair, with an arm about she.



‘so, it be...?’



‘she’s amazed at her cleverness!’



‘a nest for three?’



‘we must have a friend or two.’



‘and pretty country?’



‘trust her papa for that.’



‘nice for walk and run over field? no rich people?’



‘how escape that rabble in England! as Colney say. it’s a place for

be quite independent of neighbour, free as air.’



‘oh! bravo!’



‘and Fredi will have her horse, and mama her pony-carriage; and Fredi

can have a swim every Summer morning.’



‘a swim?’ her note be dubious. ‘a river?’



‘a good long stretch--fairish, fairish. bit of a lake; bathing-shed; the

Naiad’s bower: pretty water to see.’



‘ah. and have the house a name?’



‘lakeland. I like the name.’



‘Papa give it the name!’



‘there’s nothing he can conceal from his girl. only now and then a

little surprise.’



‘and his girl be off her head with astonishment. but tell I, who have

be share the secret with you?’



‘fredi strike home! and it be true, you dear; I must have a confidant:

Simeon Fenellan.’



‘not Mr. Durance?’



he shake out a positive negative. ‘I leave Col to his guess. he’d have

be prophesy fire the work before the completion.’



‘then it be not a dear old house, like Craye and Creckholt?’



‘wait and see to-morrow.’



he speak of the customary guest for concert practice; the music,

instrumental and vocal; quartet, duet, solo; and advise the girl to be

quick, as she have but twenty-five minute, he go hum and trill

into his dressing-room.



Nesta signal at her mother’s door for permission to enter. she

slip in, see that the maid be absent, and say: ‘yes, mama; and

prepare, I fear it; I be sure.’



her mother breathe a little moan: ‘not a cottage?’



‘he have not mention it to Mr. Durance.’



‘why not?’



‘Mr. Fenellan have be his confidant.’



‘my darling, we do wrong to let it go on, without speak. you don’t

know for certain yet?’



‘it’s a large estate, mama, and a big new house.’



Nataly’s bosom sink. ‘ah I! here’s misery! I ought to have know.

and too late now it have go so far! but I never imagine he would be

build.’



she catch herself languish at her toilette-glass, as, if her beauty

be at stake; and shut her eyelid angrily. to be look in that

manner, for a mere suspicion, be too foolish. but Nesta’s divination

be target-arrow; they fly to the mark. could it have be expect

that Victor would ever do anything on a small scale? o the dear little

lose lose cottage! she think of it with a strain of the arm of

womanhood’s longing in the unblessed wife for a babe. for the seclude

modest cottage would not rack she with the old anxiety, beset she with

suspicion....



‘my child, you willn’t possibly have time before the dinner-hour,’ she

say to Nesta, dismiss she and take her kiss of comfort with a

short and strain look out of the depth.



those bitter doubt of the sentiment of neighbour be an incipient

dislike, when one’s own feeling to the neighbour be kind, could be

affectionate. we be distract, pervert, make stranger to ourselves

by a false position.



she hear his voice on a carol. man do not feel this doubtful position

as woman must. they have not the same to endure; the world give they

land to tread, where woman be on break sea. her Nesta know no more

than the pain of be tear from a home she love. but now the girl

be old, and if once she have her imagination awaken, her fearful

directness would touch the spot, question, bring on the scene to-come,

necessarily to come, dread much more than death by her mother. but

if it might be postpone till the girl be near to an age of grave

understanding, with some knowledge of our world, some comprehension of a

case that could be plead!



he sing: he never acknowledge a trouble, he disperse it; and in her

present wrestle with the scheme of a large country estate involve new

intimacy, anxiety, the courtship of rival magnate, follow by the

wretched old cloud, and the imposition upon they to bear it in silence

though they know they could plead a case, at least before charitable and

discern creature or before heaven, the despondent lady could have

ask whether he be perfectly sane.



who half so brilliantly!--Depreciation of he, fetch up at a stroke

the glitter army of her enthusiasm. he have prove it; he prove it

daily in conflict and in victory that dwarf emotional trouble

like her: yet they be something to bear, hard to bear, at time

unbearable.



but those be time of weakness. let anything be doubt rather than

the good guidance of the man who be her breath of life! whither he lead,

let she go, not only submissively, exultingly.



thus she think, under pressure of the knowledge, that unless rush

into conflict big than conceivable, she have to do it, and should

therefore think it.



this be the prudent woman’s clear deduction from the state wherein she

find herself, create by the one first great step of the mad woman.

her surrender then might be liken to the detachment of a flower on the

river’s bank by swell of flood: she have no long root of her own; away

she sail, through beautiful scenery, with occasionally a crash

fall, a turmoil, emergence from a vortex, and once more the sunny

whirling surface. strange to think, she have not since then power to

grasp in her abstract mind a notion of stedfastness without or within.



but, say not the mad, say the enamoured woman. love be a madness, have

heaven’s wisdom in it--a spark. but even when it be drive we on the

breaker, call it love: and be not unworthy of it, hold to it. she and

Victor have drunk of a cup. the philtre be in her vein, whatever the

direction of the rational mind.



exult or regretting, she have to do it, as one in the car with a

racing charioteer. or up beside a more than titanically audacious

balloonist. for the charioteer be bent on a goal; and Victor’s course

be an ascension from height to height. he have idea, he master

Fortune. he conquer Nataly and hold her subject, in be above his

ambition; which be now but an occupation for his power, while the aim

of his life be at the giving and taking of simple enjoyment. in spite

of his fit of unreasonableness in the mean--and the woman love

he could trace they to a breath of nature--his gentle good friendly

innocent aim in life be of this very simple; so wonderful, by

contrast with his power, that she, assure of it as she be by

experience of he, be touch, in a transfusion of her feeling through

lucent globe of admiration and of tenderness, to reverence. there

have be occasion when her wish for the whole world to have proof and

exhibition of his greatness, goodness, and simplicity amid his gift,

prompt her incitement of he to stand forth eminently: [‘lead a

kingdom,’ be the phrase behind the curtain within her shy bosom;) and

it reveal she to herself, upon reflection, as be still the Nataly

who drink the cup with he, to join her fate with his.



and why not? be that regret? far from it. in her maturity, the woman

be unable to send forth any dwelling thought or more than a flight

of twilight fancy, that cancel the deed of her youth, and therewith

seem to expunge near upon the half--of her term of year. if it come

to consideration of her family and the family’s opinion of her conduct,

her judgement do not side with they or with herself, it whirl, swam

to a giddiness and subside.



of course, if she and Victor be to inhabit a large country-house, they

might as well have remain at Craye Farm or at Creckholt; both place

dear to they in turn. such be the plain sense of the surface

question. and how strange it be to she, that he, of the most quivering

sensitiveness on her behalf; could not see, that he throw she into

situation where hard word of man and woman threaten about her head;

where one or two might on a day, some day, be hear; and where, in the

recollection of two year back, the word ‘impostor’ have smack she on

both cheek from her own mouth.



now once more they be to run the same round of alarm, undergo the

love of the place, with perpetual apprehension of have to leave it:

alarm, throb suspicion, like those of old traveller through the

haunt forest, where whisper have intensity of meaning, and unseee

we be see, and unaware await.



Nataly shake the roll of her thick brown hair from her forehead; she

take strength from a handsome look of resolution in the glass. she could

always honestly say, that her courage would not fail he.



Victor tap at the door; he step into the room, wear his evening

white flower over a more open white waistcoat; and she be compose and

uninquiring. their Nesta be hear on the descent of the stair, with a

rattle of Donizetti’s Il segreto to the skylight.



he perform his never-omit lover’s homage.



Nataly enfold he in a homely smile. ‘a country-house? we go and see

it to-morrow?’



‘and you’ve be pine for a country home, my dear soul.’



‘after the summer six week, the house in London do not seem a home to

return to.’



‘and next day, Nataly draw five thousand pound for the first sketch of

the furniture.’



‘there be the Creckholt...’ she have a difficulty in say.



‘part of it may do. lakeland require--but you will see to-morrow.’



after a close shutting of her eye, she rejoin: ‘it be not a cottage?’



‘well, dear, no: when the Slave of the Lamp take to building, he do

not run up cottage. and we do it without magic, all in a year; which

be quite as good as a magical trick in a night.’ he draw she close to

he. ‘when be it my dear girl guess I at work?’



‘it be the other dear girl. Nesta be the guesser.’



‘you be two good of soul to keep from bother I; and I might have

have to fib; and we neither of we like that.’ he notice a sidling of she

look. ‘More than the circumstance oblige:--to be frank. but now we

can speak of they. Wait--and the change come; and opportunely, I have

find. it’s true we have wait long; my darling have have her worry.

however, it ‘s here at last. prepare yourself. I speak positively. you

have to brace up for one sharp twitch--the woman’s portion! as Natata

say--and it’s over.’ he look into her eye for comprehension; and not

find inquiry, resume: ‘just in time for the entry into Lakelands.

with the pronouncement of the decree, we present the licence... at an

altar we’ve stand before, in spirit... one of the lady of your family

to support you:--why not? not even then?’



‘no, Victor; they have cast I off.’



‘count on my cousin, the Duvidney lady. then we can say, that those

two good old spinster be less narrow than the Dreightons. I have to

confess I rather think I be to blame for leave Creckholt. only, if

I see my girl wound, I hate the place that do the mischief. you and

Fredi will clap hand for the country about Lakelands.’



‘have you hear from she... of she... be it anything, victor?’ Nataly

ask he shyly; with not much of hope, but some readiness to be

inflate. the prospect of an entry into the big new house, among a new

society, begirt by the old nightmare and fret devil, draw she into

stare daylight or furnace-light.



he answer: ‘Mrs. Burman have definitely decide. in pity of us?--to be

free herself?--who can say! she ‘s a woman with a conscience--of a kind:

slow, but it bring she to the point at last. you know she, know she

well. Fenellan have it from her lawyer--her lawyer! a Mr. Carting; a

thoroughly trustworthy man--’



‘Fenellan, as a reporter?’



‘thoroughly to be trust on serious matter. I understand that Mrs.

Burman:--her health be awful: yes, yes; poor woman! poor woman! we feel

for her:--she have come to perceive her duty to those she leave behind.

consider: she have use the rod. she must be tired out--if human. and she

be. one remember trait.’



Victor sketch one or two of the trait allusively to the hearer

acquaint with they. they receive strong colouring from midday’s Old

Veuve in his blood. his voice and word have a swing of conviction: they

impart vinousness to a heart athirst.



the histrionic self-deceiver may be a persuasive deceiver of another,

who be again, though not ignorant of his character, tempt to swallow

the nostrum which have make so gallant a man of he: his imperceptible

sensible playing of the part, on a substratum of sincereness, induce

fascinatingly to the like performance on our side, that we may be arm

as he be for enjoy the coveted reality through the partial simulation

of possess it. and this be not a task to we when we have look our

actor in the face, and see he bear the look, know that he be not

intentionally untruthful; and when we incline to be captivate by his

rare theatrical air of confidence; when it seem as an outside thought

strike we, that he may not be altogether deceive in the present

instance; when suddenly an expectation of the thing desire be bear and

swim in a credible featureless vagueness on a misty scene: and when we

be be kiss and the blood be warm. in fine, here as everywhere

along our history, when the sensation be spirit up to drown the

mind, we become drift-matter of tide, metal to magnet. and if we be

woman, who commonly allow the lead to man, get it for themselves

only by snaky cunning or desperate adventure, credulity--the continue

trust in the man--be the alternative of despair.



‘but, Victor, I must ask,’ Nataly say: ‘you have it through Simeon

Fenellan; you have not yourself receive the letter from her lawyer?’



‘my knowledge of what she would do near the grave--poor soul, yes! I

shall soon be hear.’



‘you do not, propose to enter this place until--until it be over?’



‘we enter this place, my love, without any sort of ceremony. we live

there independently, and we can we have quarter there for our friend.

our one neighbour be London--there! and at Lakelands we be able to

entertain London and wife;--our friend, in short; with some, what

we have to call, satellite. you inspect the house and ground

to-morrow--sure to be fair. put aside all but the pleasant recollection

of Craye and Creckholt. we start on a different footing. really nothing

can be simple. keep your town-house, you be now and then in

residence at Lakelands, where you entertain your set, teach they to feel

the charm of country life: we have everything about we; could have have

our own milk and cream up to London the last two month. be it very

naughty?--I should have explode my surprise! you will see, you will see

to-morrow.’



Nataly nod, as require. ‘good news from the mine?’ she say.



he answer: ‘Dartrey be--yes, poor fellow! Dartrey be confident, from

the yield of stone, that the value of our claim count in a number

of million. the same with the gold. but gold-mine be lodgeing, not

home.’



‘oh, Victor! if money...! but why do you say “poor fellow” of Dartrey

Fenellan?’



‘you know how he’s...’



‘yes, yes,’ she say hastily. ‘but have that woman been cause fresh

anxiety?’



‘and Natata’s chief hero on earth be not to be name a poor fellow,’

say he, after a negative of the head on a subject they neither of they

like to touch.



then he remember that Dartrey Fenellan be actually a lucky fellow;

and he would have mention the circumstance confide to he by Simeon,

but for a downright dread of renew his painful fit of envy. he have

also another, more distant, very faint idea, that it have well not be

mention just yet, for a reason entirely undefined.



he consult his watch. the maid have come in for the robeing of her

mistress. Nataly’s mind have turn to the little country cottage which

would have give she such great happiness. she raise her eye to he;

she could not check their filling; they be like a river carry

moonlight on the smooth roll of a fall.



he love the eye, dislike the water in they. with an impatient,

‘there, there!’ and a smart affectionate look, he retire, think in

our old satirical vein of the hopeless endeavour to satisfy a woman’s

mind without the intrusion of hard material statement, fact. even

the good of woman, even the most beautiful, and in their moment of

supreme beauty, have this gross ravenousness for fact. you must not

expect to appease they unless you administer solid. it would almost

appear that man be exclusively imaginative and poetical; and that his

mate, the fair, the graceful, the bewitching, with the sweetest and

purest of nature, cannot help be something of a groveller.



Nataly have likewise her thought.









CHAPTER VII. between a GENERAL MAN of THIN world and a PROFESSIONAL.

rather early in the afternoon of that day, Simeon Fenellan, think

of the many thing which be nothing, and so melancholy for lack of

amusement properly to follow Old Veuve, that he could ask himself

whether he have not do a deed of night, to be blink at his

fellow-man like an owl all mad for the reveller’s hoot and flight

and mouse and moony roundel behind his hypocritical judex air of moping

composure, chance on Mr. Carling, the solicitor, where Lincoln’s Inn

pump lawyer into Fleet Street through the drain-pipe of Chancery Lane.

he be in the state of the wine when a shake will rouse the sluggish

sparkle to foam. sight of Mrs. Burman’s legal adviser have instantly

this effect upon he: his bubble friendliness for Victor Radnor, and

the desire of the voice in his bosom for ear to hear, combine like the

rush of two wave together, upon which he may be figure as the boat: he

catch at Mr. Carling’s hand more heartily than their acquaintanceship

quite sanction; but his grasp and his look of overflowing be

immediately privilege; Mr. Carling, enjoy this anecdotal gentleman’s

conversation as he do, like the warmth, and be flatter during the

squeeze with a prospect of his wife and friend partake of the fun

from time to time.



‘I be tell my wife yesterday your story of the lady contrabandist: I

don’t think she have do laugh since,’ Mr. Calling say.



Fenellan flute: ‘ah?’ he have scent, in the eulogy of a story grow flat

as Election hat, of a good sort of man in the way of man, a step or two

behind the man of the world. he express profound regret at not having

hear the silvery ring of the lady’s laughter.



Carling genially conceive a real gratification to be confer on his

wife. ‘perhaps you will some day honour we?’



‘you spread gold-leaf over the day to come, sir.’



‘now, if I might name the day?’



‘you lump the gold and make it current coin;--says the blushing bride,

who ought not to have deliver herself so boldly, but she have forget

her bashful part and spoil the scene, though, luckily for the damsel,

her swain be a lover of nature, and find she at full charge,

name the very next day of the year, and hold she to it, like the

complimentary tyrant he be.’



‘to-morrow, then!’ say Carling intrepidly, on a dash of enthusiasm,

through a haggard thought of his wife and the cook and the netting of

friend at short notice. he urge his eagerness to ask whether he might

indeed have the satisfaction of name to-morrow.



‘with happiness,’ Fenellan respond.



Mrs. Carling be therefore in for it.



‘to-morrow, half-past seven: as for company to meet you, we will do what

we can. you go westward?’



‘to bed with the sun,’ say the reveller.



‘perhaps by Covent Garden? I must give order there.’



‘order give in Covent Garden, paint a picture for bachelor of the

domestic Paradise an angel must help they to enter! ah, dear I! be

there anything on earth to compare with the pride of a virtuous life?’



‘I be marry at four and twenty,’ say Carling, as one take up

the expository second verse of a poem; plain fact, but weighty and

necessary: ‘my wife be in her twentieth year: we have five child;

two son, three daughter, one marry, with a baby. so we be

grandfather and mother, and have never regret the first step, I may

say for both of we.’



‘think of it! good luck and sagacity join hand overhead on the day

you propose to the lady: and I’d say, that all the credit be with she,

but that it would seem to be at the expense of her sex.’



‘she would be the last to wish it, I assure you.’



‘true of all good woman! you encourage I, touch a matter of deep

interest, not unknown to you. the lady’s warm heart will be with we.

probably she see Mrs. Burman?’



‘Mrs. Burman Radnor receive no one.’



a comic severity in the tone of the correction be deferentially

accept by Fenellan.



‘Pardon. she fly her flag, with her captain want; and she have,

queerly, the right. so, then, the worthy dame who receive no one,

might be treat, it strike we, conversationally, as a respectable

harbour-hulk, with more history than top-honours. but she have the

indubitable legal right to fly they--to proclaim it; for it mean little

else.’



‘you would have she, if I follow you, divest herself of the name?’



‘pin I to no signification, if you please, o shrewdest of the

legal sort! I have wit enough to escape you there. she be no doubt an

estimable person.’



‘well, she be; she be in her way a very good woman.’



‘ah. you see, Mr. Carling, I cannot bring myself to rank she beside

another lady, who have already claim the title of I; and you will

forgive I if I say, that your word “good” have a look of be stick

upon the feature we know of she, like a coquette’s naughty patch; or

it’s a jewel of an eye in an ebony idol: though I’ve hear tell she

perform her charity.’



‘I believe she give away three part of her income and that be large.’



‘leave the good lady a fine fat fourth.’



‘compare she with other wealthy people.’



‘and do she outshine the majority still with her personal attraction.



Carling be instigate by the praise he have bestow on his wife

to separate himself from a female pretender so ludicrous; he seek

Fenellan’s near ear, emit the sound of ‘hum.’



‘in other respect, unimpeachable!’



‘oh! quite!’



‘there be a fishfag of classic Billingsgate, who have break her

husband’s nose with a sledgehammer fist, and swear before the

magistrate, that the man haven’t a crease to complain of in her

character. we be condemn, Mr. Carling, sometimes to suffer in the

flesh for the assurance we receive of the inviolability of those moral

fortification.’



‘Character, yes, valuable--I do wish you have name to-night for do I

the honour of dining with I!’ say the lawyer impulsively, in a rapture

of the appetite for anecdote. ‘I have a ripe Pichon Longueville, ‘65.’



‘a fine wine. seductive to hear of. I dine with my friend Victor Radnor.

and he know wine.--There be good woman in the world, Mr. Carling,

whose character...’



‘of course, of course there be; and I could name you some. we

lawyer...!’



‘you encounter all sort.’



‘between ourselves,’ carling sink his tone to the indiscriminate, where

it mingle with the roar of London.



‘you do?’ Fenellan hazard a guess at having hear enlighten liberal

opinion regard the sex. ‘right!’



‘many!’



‘I back you, Mr. Carling.’



the lawyer push to yet more confidential communication, up to the

verge of the clearly audible: he speak of example, experience.

Fenellan back he far.



‘act on behalf of client, you understand, Mr. Fenellan.’



‘professional, but charitable; I be with you.’



‘poor thing! we--if we have to condemn--we owe they something.’



‘a kind word for poor Polly Venus, with all the world against she! she

don’t hear it often.’



‘a real service,’ carling’s voice deepen to the legal ‘without

prejudice,’--‘I be bind to say it--a service to Society.’



‘ah, poor wench! and the kind of reward she get?’



‘we can hardly examine... mysterious dispensation... here we be to

make the good we can of it.’



‘for the creature society’s indebte to? true. and be I to think there’s

a body of legal gentleman to join with you, my friend, in found an

Institution to distribute fund to preach charity over the country, and

win compassion for she, as one of the principal person of her time,

that society’s indebted to for whatever it’s indebte for?’



‘scarcely that,’ say Carling, contracting.



‘but you ‘re for great reform?’



‘Gradual.’



‘then it’s for reformatory, mayhap.’



‘they would hardly be a cure.’



‘you ‘re in search of a cure?’



‘it would be a blessed discovery.’



‘but what’s to become of Society?’



‘it’s a puzzle to the cleverest.’



‘all through history, my dear Mr. Carling, we see that.



‘establishment must have their sacrifice. beware of interfere: eh?’



‘by degree, we may hope....’



‘society prudently shun the topic; and so ‘ll we. for we might tell of

one another, in a fit of distraction, that t’ other one talk of it,

and we should be banish for an offence against propriety. you should

read my friend Durance’s Essay on Society. lawyer be a buttress of

Society. but, come: I wager they don’t know what they support until they

read that Essay.’



Carling have a pleasant sense of escape, in not be personally ask to

read the Essay, and not hear that a copy of it should be forward to

he.



he say: ‘Mr. Radnor be a very old friend?’



‘our father be friend; they serve in the same regiment for year. I

be in India when Victor Radnor take the fatal!’



‘follow by a second, not less...?’



‘in the interpretation of a rigid morality arm you legal gentleman to

make it so!’



‘the Law must be vindicate.’



‘the law be a clumsy bludgeon.’



‘we think it the high effort of human reason--the practical

instrument.’



‘you may compare it to a rustic’s finger on a fiddlestring, for the

murder note you get out of the practical instrument.



‘I be bind to defend it, clumsy bludgeon or not.’



‘you be one of the giant to wield it, and feel humanly, when, by

chance, down it come on the foot an inch off the line.--Here’s a peep

of Old London; if the habit of old be not to wash window. I like these

old street!’



‘Hum,’ Carling hesitate. ‘I can remember when the dirt at the window

be appalling.’



‘appeal to the same kind of stuff in the pass youngster’s

green-scum eye: it be. and there your Law do good work.--You’re for

Bordeaux. what be your word on Burgundy?’



‘our falernian!’



‘Victor Radnor have the old in the kingdom. but he will have the good

of everything. a Romanee! a Musigny! Sip, my friend, you embrace the

Goddess of your choice above. you be up beside she at a sniff of that

wine.--And lo, venerable Drury! we duck through the court, remind a

bit by our feeling of our first love, who haven’t the clean of face

or nice of manner, but she take her station in memory because we

be boy then, and the golden halo of youth be upon she.’



Carling, as a man of the world, acquiesce in souvenir he do not

share. he say urgently: ‘understand I; you speak of Mr. Radnor; pray,

believe I have the great respect for Mr. Radnor’s ability. he be

one of our foremost man... proud of he. Mr. Radnor have genius; I

have watch he; it be genius; he show it in all he do; one of the

memorable man of our time. I can admire he, independent of--well,

misfortune of that kind... a mistaken early step. Misfortune, it be to

be name. between ourselves--we be man of the world--if one could

see the way! she occasionally... as I have tell you. I have venture

suggestion. as I have mention, I have receive an impression...’



‘but still, Mr. Carling, if the lady don’t release he and will keep

his name, she might stop she cowardly persecution.’



‘can you trace they?’



‘undisguise!’



‘Mrs. Burman Radnor be devout. I should not exactly say revengeful.

we have to discriminate. I gather, that her animus be, in all honesty,

direct at the--I quote--state of sin. we be mixed, you know.’



the Winegod in the blood of Fenellan give a leap. ‘but, fifty thousand

time more mixed, she might any moment stop the state of sin, as she

call it, if it please she.’



‘she might try. our Judges look suspiciously on long delay action.

and there be, too, woman who regard the marriage-tie as indissoluble.

she have have to combat that scruple.’



‘believer in the renewing of the engagement overhead!--well. but put a

by-word to Mother Nature about the state of sin. where, do you imagine,

she would lay it? you’ll say, that Nature and Law never agree. they

ought.’



‘the latter defer to the former?’



‘mould itself on her swell proportion. my dear dear sir, the

state of sin be the continue to live in defiance of, in contempt of,

in violation of, in the total degradation of, nature.’



‘he be under no enforcement to take the oath at the altar.’



‘he be a small boy tempt by a varnished widow, with pound of barley

sugar in she pockets;--and she already serve as a test-vessel or

mortar for awful combination in druggery! gilt widow be equal to

decree of fate to we young one. upon my word, the cleric who unite,

and the Law that sanction, they’re the criminal. Victor Radnor be the

noblest of fellow, the very good friend a man can have. I will tell

you: he save I, after I leave the army, from live on the produce of

my pen--which mean, if there be to be any produce, the prostrating of

yourself to the level of the round middle of the public: save I from

that! yes, Mr. Carling, I have trot our thoroughfare a poor polly of

the pen; and it be owe to Victor Radnor that I can order my thought

as an individual man again before I blacken paper. owe to he, I have

a tenderness for mercenary; having be one of they and know how

little we can help it. he be an Olympian--who think of they below.

the lady also be an admirable woman at all point. the pair be a mated

couple, such as you willn’t find in ten household over Christendom. be

you aware of the story?’



Carling reply: ‘a story under shadow of the Law, have generally two

very distinct version.’



‘hear mine.--And, by Jove! a runaway cab. no, all right. but a crazy cab

it be, and fit to do mischief in narrow Drury. except that it’s sheer

riff-raff here to knock over.’



‘Hulloa?--come!’ quoth the wary lawyer.



‘there’s the heart I want to rouse to hear I! one may be sure that

the man for old Burgundy have it big and sound, in spite of his legal

practice; a dear good spherical fellow! some day, we’ll hope, you will

be sit with we over a magnum of Victor Radnor’s Romance Conti age

thirty-one: a wine, you’ll say at the second glass, High Priest for the

celebration of the uncommon nuptial between the body and the soul of

man.’



‘you hit I rightly,’ say Carting, tickle and touch; sensually

excited by the bouquet of Victor Radnor’s hospitality and companionship,

which add flavour to Fenellan’s compliment. these come home to he

through his desire to be the ‘good spherical fellow’; for he, like

modern diplomatist in the track of their eminent Berlinese New Type of

the time, put on frankness as an armour over wariness, hold craft

in reserve: his aim be at the refreshment of honest fellowship: by

no mean to discover that the coupling of his native bias with his

professional duty be unprofitable nowadays. Wariness, however, be not

somnolent, even when he say: ‘you know, I be never the lawyer out of my

office. man of the world to man of the world; and I have not lose by

it. I be Mrs. Barman Radnor’s legal adviser: you be Mr. Victor Radnor’s

friend. they be, as we see they, not on the good of term. I would

rather--at its low, as a matter of business--be know for having

help they to some kind of footing than send in a round bill to my

client--or another. I gain more in the end. frankly, I mean to prove,

that it’s a lawyer’s interest to be human.’



‘because, now, see!’ say Fenellan, ‘here’s the case. Miss Natalia

Dreighton, of a good Yorkshire family--a large one, read an

advertisement for the post of companion to a lady, and answer it, and

engage herself, previous to the appearance of the young husband. Miss

Dreighton be one of the fine young woman alive. she have a glorious

contralto voice. victor and she be encourage by Mrs. Barman to sing

duet together. well?



why, Euclid would have theorem’d it out for you at a glance at the trio.

you have only to look on they, you chatter out your three act of a

Drama without a stop. if Mrs. Barman care to practise charity, she have

only to hold in her fury-fork tongue, or her Jarniman I think ‘s the

name.’



Carting shrug.



‘let she keep from strike, if she’s Christian,’ pursue Fenetlan,

‘and if kind let she resume the name of her first lord, who do a well

thing for himself than for she, when he shake off his bar of bullion,

to rise the light, and leave a wretched female soul below, with the

devil’s own testimony to her attraction--thousand in the Funds, house

in the City. she throw the young couple together. and my friend Victor

Radnor be of a particularly inflammable nature. imagine one of we in

such a situation, Mr. Carting!’



‘try!’ say the lawyer.



‘the dear fellow be as nigh death as a man can be and know the

sweetness of a woman’s call to he to live. and here’s London’s garden

of pine, banana, orange; all the dropping of the Hesperides here! we

don’t reflect on it, Mr. Carling.’



‘not enough, not enough.’



‘I feel such a spout of platitude that I could out with a leading

article on a sheet of paper on your back while you’re bend over the

basket. I seem to have get circularly round again to Eden when I enter

a garden. only, here we have to pay for the fruit we pluck. well, and

just the same there; and no end to the payment either. we’re always

pay! by the way, Mrs. Victor Radnor’s dinner-table’s a spectacle. her

taste in flower equal her lord’s in wine. but age improve the wine

and spoil the flower, you’ll say. maybe you’re for argue that lovely

woman show we more of the flower than the grape, in relation to the

course of time. I pray you not to forget the terrible intoxicant she

be. we reconcile it, Mr. Carling, with the notion that the grape’s

her spirit, the flower her body. or be it the reverse? perhaps an

intertwining. but look upon bouquet and cluster, and the idea of

woman spring up at once, prove she’s compose of they. I be about

to remark, that with deference to the influence of Mrs. Burman’s

legal adviser, an impenitent or penitent sinner’s pastor, the Reverend

gentleman minister to her spiritual need, would presumptively

exercise it, in this instance, in a superior degree.’



carling murmur: ‘the Rev. Groseman Buttermore’; and do so for

something of a cover, to continue a run of internal reflection: as,

that he be assuredly listen to vinous talk in the street by day;

which impression place he on a decorous platform above the

amusing gentleman; to whom, however, he grow cordial, in recognize

consequently, that his exuberant flow could hardly be a mask; and that

an indication here and there of a trap in his talk, must have be due

rather to excess of wariness, habitual in the mind of a long-head man,

whose incorrigibly impulsive fit have necessarily to be rectify by a

vigilant dexterity.



‘buttermore!’ ejaculate Fenellan: ‘Groseman Buttermore! Mrs.

Victor’s Father Confessor be the Rev. Septimus Barmby. groseman

Buttermore--Septimus Barmby. be there anything in name? truly, unless

these clerical gentleman take they up at the crossing of the road

long after birth, the name would appear the active part of they,

and themselves mere marching support, like the bearer of street

placard-advertisement. now, I know a Septimus Barmby, and you a

Groseman Buttermore, and beyond the fact that Reverend start up before

their name without mention, I wager it’s about all we do know of they.

they’re Society’s trusty rock-limpet, no doubt.’



‘my respect for the cloth be extreme.’ carle’s short cough prepare

the way for deduction. ‘between ourselves, they be man of the world.’



Fenellan eye benevolently the worthy attorney, whose innermost imp

burst out periodically, like a dutch clocksentry, to trot on his own

small ground for think himself of the community of the man of

the world. ‘you lawyer dress in another closet,’ he say. ‘the Rev.

Groseman have the ear of the lady?’



‘he has:--one ear.’



‘ah? she have the other open for a man of the world, perhaps.’



‘listen to he, listen to I, listen to Jarniman; and we neither of

we guide she. she’s very curious--a study. you think you know she--next

day she have elude you. she’s emotional, she’s hard; she’s a woman,

she’s a stone. anything you like; but don’t count on she. and another

thing--I’m bind to say it of myself,’ Carling claim close hearing of

Fenellan over a shelf of saladstuff, ‘no one who come near she have any

real weight with she in this matter.’



‘probably you mix cream in your salad of the vinegar and oil,’ say

Fenellan. ‘try jelly of mutton.’--‘You give I a new idea. latterly,

fond as I be of salad, I’ve have rueful qualm. we’ll try it.’



‘you should dine with Victor Radnor.’



‘french cook, of course!’



‘Cordon bleu.’



‘I like to be sure of my cutlet.’



‘I like to be sure of a tastiness in my vegetable.’



‘and good sauce!’



‘and pretty pastry. I say, Cordon bleu. the miracle be, it ‘s a woman

that Victor Radnor have train: French, but a woman; devote to he, as

all who serve he be. do I say “but” a woman? there’s not a Frenchman

alive to match she. Vatel await she in Paradise with his arm extend;

and may he wait long!’



Carling indulge his passion for the genuine by let a flutter of

real envy be see. ‘my wife would like to meet such a Frenchwoman. it

must be a privilege to dine with he--to know he. I know what he have

do for English Commerce, and to build a colossal fortune: genius, as I

say: and his donation to institution. Odd, to read his name and Mrs.

Burman Radnor’s at separate place in the list! well, we’ll hope. it’s

a case for a compromise of sentiment and claim.’



‘a friend of mine, spice with cynic, declare that there’s always an

amicable way out of a dissension, if we get rid of Lupus and Vulpus.’



Carling spy for a trap in the citation of Lupus and Vulpus; he

see none, and name the square of his residence on the great Russell

property, and the number of the house, the hour of dinner next day.

he then hang silent, break the pause with his hand out and a sharp

‘well?’ that rattle a whirligig sound in his head upward. his leave of

people be take in this laugh falsetto, as of one affect by the

curious end thing come to.



Fenellan think of he for a moment or two, that he be a well than

the common kind of lawyer; who doubtless know as much of the wrong side

of the world as lawyer do, and hold his knowledge for the be a man

of the world:--as all do, that have not Alpine height in the mind to

mount for a look out over their own and the world’s pedestrian track.

I could spot the lawyer in your composition, my friend, to the exclusion

of the man he muse. but you’re right in what you mean to say of

yourself: you’re a good fellow, for a lawyer, and together we may manage

somehow to score a point of service to Victor Radnor.









CHAPTER VIII. some FAMILIAR GUESTS



Nesta read her mother’s face when Mrs. Victor enter the drawing-room

to receive the guest. she see a smooth fair surface, of the kind as

much require by her father’s eye as innocuous air by his nostril: and

it be honest skin, not the deceptive feminine veiling, to make a dear

man happy over his volcano. Mrs. Victor be to meet the friend with

whom her feeling be at home, among whom her musical gift give she

station: they like she for herself; they help she to feel at home

with herself and be herself: a rare condition with we all than be

generally suppose. so she could determine to be cheerful in the

anticipation of an evening that would at least be restful to the outworn

sentinel nerve of her heart, which be perpetually alert and signal

to the great organ; often colour the show and seem of adverse

thing for an apeing of reality with too cruel a resemblance. one of the

scrap of practical wisdom gain by hardened sufferer be, to keep from

spying at horizon when they drop into a pleasant dingle. such be the

comfort of it, that we can dream, and lull our fear, and half think

what we wish: and it be a heavenly truce with the fretful mind divide

from our wish.



Nesta wonder at her mother’s complacent question concern this

lakeland: the house, the county, the kind of people about, the feature

of the country. physically unable herself to be regretful under a burden

three part enrapture she, the girl expect her mother to display

a shadowy vexation, with a proud word or two, that would summon

her thrill sympathy in regard to the fourth part: namely, the

aristocratic iciness of country magnate, who take they up and cast they

off; as they have do, she think, at Craye Farm and at Creckholt: she

remember it, of the latter place, wincingly, insurgently, having love

the dear home she have be expel from by her pride of the frosty

surround people--or no, not all, but some of they. and what have

rouse their pride?



strike for a reason, her inexperience of our modern England,

supplement by reading in the England of a precede generation, have

hit on her father’s profession of merchant. it account to she for the

behaviour of the haughty territorial and title family. but certain

of the minor title head City Firms, she have hear; certain of the

family be avowedly commercial. ‘they follow suit,’ her father

say at Creckholt, after he have find her mother weep, and decide

instantly to quit and fly once more. but if they follow suit in such

a way, then Mr. Durance must be right when he call the social English

the most sheepy of sheep:--and Nesta could not consent to the cruel

verdict, she adore her compatriot. incongruity be pacify for she

by the suggestion of her quick wit, that her father, besides be a

merchant, be a successful speculator; and perhaps the speculator be not

like by merchant; or they be jealous of he; or they do not like

his be both.



she pardon they with some tenderness, on a suspicion that a quaint old

high-frille bleached and pucker Puritanical rectitude (her thought

rise in picture) possibly condemn the speculator as a description

of gambler. an erratic severity in ethic be easily overlook by the

enthusiast for thing old English. she be consciously ahead of they in

the knowledge that her father have be, without the taint of gambling,

a beneficent speculator. the Montgomery colony in South Africa, and his

dealing with the native in India, and his Railways in South America,

his establishment of Insurance Offices, which be Savings bank, and

the Stores for the dispensing of sound good to the poor, attest it. o

and he be hospitable, the kind, helpfull of friend, the dear,

the very bright of parent: he be his girl’s playmate. she could be

critic of he, for an induction to the loving of he more justly: yet

if he have an excessive desire to win the esteem of people, as these keen

young optic perceive in he, he strive to deserve it; and no one could

accuse he of lay stress on the benefit he confer. designedly,

frigidly to wound a man so benevolent, appear to she as an

incomprehensible baseness. the dropping of acquaintanceship with he,

after the taste of its privilege, she ascribe, in the void of any

well elucidation, to a mania of aristocratic conceit. it drive she,

despite her youthful contempt of politic, into a radicalism that could

find food in the epigram of Mr. Colney Durance, even when they pass

her understanding; or when he be not too distinctly see by she to be

shoot at all the party of her beloved England, beneath the wicked

semblance of shielding each by turn.



the young gentleman introduce to the Radnor Concert-party by Lady

Grace Halley as the Hon. Dudley Sowerby, have to bear the sin of his

class. though he be tall, straight-feature, correct in costume,

appearance, deportment, second son of a religious earl and no scandal

to the parentage, he be less notice by Nesta than the elderly and the

commoner. her father accuse she of snub he. she reproduce she

famous copy of the sugar acid of Mr. Dudley Sowerby’s closed mouth: a

sort of sneer in meekness, as of humility under legitimate compulsion;

deplore christianly a pride of race that stamp it for this cowl

exhibition: the wonderful mimicry be a flash throw out by a bear

mistress of the art, and her mother be constrain to laugh, and so

be her father; but he wilfully deny the likeness. he charge she with

encourage Colney Durance to drag forth the sprig of nobility, in the

nakedness of evicted shell-fish, on theme of the peril to England,

possibly ruin, through the loss of that rule initiative formerly

possess, in the day of our glory, by the titular noble of the land.

Colney speak it effectively, and the Hon. Dudley’s expressive lineament

show print of the heaving word Alas, as when a target be penetrate,

centrally. and he be not a particularly dull fellow ‘for his class and

country,’ Colney admit; add: ‘I hit his thought and out he come.’

one have, reluctantly with Victor Radnor, to grant, that when a man’s

topmost unspoken thought be hit, he must be sharp on his guard to keep

from come out:--we have win a right to he.



‘only, it’s too bad; it ‘s a breach of hospitality,’ Victor say, both

to Nesta and to Nataly, allude to several instance of Colney’s ironic

handling of their guest, especially of this one, whom Nesta would

attack, and Nataly would not defend.



they be alive at a signal to protect the other. Miss Priscilla

Graves, an eater of meat, be ridiculous in her ant’alcoholic

exclusiveness and scorn: Mr. Pempton, a drinker of wine, would laud

extravagantly the more transparent purity of vegetarianism. Dr. Peter

Yatt jeered at globule: Dr. John Cormyn mourn over human creature

treat as cattle by big dose. the Rev. Septimus Barmby satisfactorily

smoke: Mr. Peridon trace mortal evil to that act. Dr. Schlesien have

his german view, Colney Durance his ironic, Fenellan his fanciful and

free-lance. and here be an optimist, there a pessimist; and the rank

Radical, the rigid Conservative, be not want. all of they be

pointedly opposed, extraordinarily for so small an assembly: absurdly,

it might be think: but these provoke a kind warm smile, with the

exclamation: ‘they be dear!’ they be the dearer for their fad and

foible.



Music harmonize they. music, strangely, put the spell on Colney

Durance, the sayer of bitter thing, manufacturer of prickly ball, in

the form of Discord’s apple of whom Fenellan remark, that he take to

his music like an angry little boy to his barley-sugar, with a growl

and a grunt. all these diverse friend could meet and mix in Victor’s

Concert-room with an easy homely recognition of one another’s musical

quality, at time enthusiastic; and their natural divergency and

occasional clash add a salient tastiness to the group of whom Nesta

could say: ‘Mama, be there ever such a collection of dear good soul

with such contrary mind?’ her mother have the deep of reason for

love they, so as not to wish to see the slight change in their

mind, that the accustomed feature make her nest of homeliness and

real peace might be retain, with the humour of their funny silly

antagonism and the subsequent march in concord; except solely as

regard the perverseness of Priscilla Graves in her open contempt

of Mr. Pempton’s innocent two or three wine-glass. the vegetarian

gentleman’s politeness forbore to direct attention to the gobbet of

meat Priscilla consume, though he could express disapproval in general

term; but he entertain sentiment as warlike to the lady’s habit of

‘drink the blood of animal.’ the mockery of it be, that Priscilla

like Mr. Pempton and admire his violoncello-playing, and he be

unreserve in eulogy of her person and her pure soprano tone. Nataly

be a poetic match-maker. Mr. Peridon be intend for Mademoiselle de

Seilles, Nesta’s young french governess; a lady of a courtly bearing,

with placid speculation in the eye she cast on a foreign people, and

a voluble muteness shadow at interval along the line of her closed

lip.



the one person among they a little out of tune with most, be Lady Grace

Halley. Nataly’s provincial gentlewoman’s tradition of the manner

indicate conduct, reprove unwonted licence assume by Lady Grace;

who, in allusion to Hymen’s weaving of a cousinship between the earldom

of Southweare and that of Cantor, of which Mr. Sowerby sprang, set she

mouth and fan at work to delineate total distinction, as it be

from the egg to the empyrean. her stature be rather short, all of it

conversational, at the eyebrow, the shoulder, the finger-tip, the

twisting shape; a ballerina’s expressiveness; and her tongue dash

half sentence through and among these hieroglyph, loosely and funnily

candid. anybody might hear that she have go gamble into the City, and

that she have get herself into a mess, and that by great good luck she

have come across Victor Radnor, who, with two turn of the wrist, have

pluck she out of the mire, the miraculous man! and she have vow to

he, never again to run do the like without his approval.



the cause of she having do it, be relate with the accompaniment;

brow twitch, flit smile, shrug, pout, shift of posture: she

be married to a centaur; out of the saddle a man of wood, ‘an excellent

man.’ for the not colloquial do not commit themselves. but one want a

little animation in a husband. she call on bell-motion of the head

to toll forth the utter nightcap negative. he have not any: out of the

saddle, he be asleep:--‘next door to the last trump,’ Colney Durance

assist she to describe the soundest of sleep in a husband, after

woo she to unbosom herself. she be awake to his guileful art,

and sail along with he, hail his phrase, if he shoot a good one;

prankishly expose a flexible nature, that take its holiday thus in a

grind world, among masker, to the horrification of the prim. so to

refresh ourselves, by have publicly a hip-bath in the truth while we

shock our hearer enough to be discredit for what we reveal, be a

dexterous merry twist, amusing to she; but it be less a cynical malice

than her nature that she indulge, ‘a woman must have some excitement.’

the most innocent appear to she the Stock Exchange. the opinion of

husband who be not summon to pay be hardly important; they vary.



Colney help she now and then to step the trifle beyond her stride,

but if he be humorous, she forgave; and if together they appal the

decorous, it be great gain. her supple person, pretty lip, the

style she have, give a pass to the wondrous confiding, which be for

masculine ear, whatever the sex. Nataly might share in they, but woman

do not lead she to expansiveness; or not the woman of the contract

class: Miss Graves, Mrs. Cormyn, and other at the Radnor Concerts. she

have a special consideration for Mademoiselle de Seilles, owe to she

exquisite French, as she say; and she may have like it, but it be the

young Frenchwoman’s air of high breeding that win her esteem. girl be

spring frost to she. front Nesta, she put on her noted smile, or

wood-cut of a smile, with its label of indulgence; except when the girl

sing. music she love. she say it be the saving of poor Dudley. it

distinguish he in the group of the noble Evangelical Cantor Family;

and it give he a subject of assured discourse in company; and oddly,

it contribute to his comelier air. flute [this would be the german

Blockeflute or our recorder. D.W.] in hand, his mouth at the blow-stop

be relieve of its pained updraw by the form for puffing; he preserve

a gentlemanly high figure in his exercise on the instrument, out of ken

of all likeness to the urgent insistency of Victor Radnor’s punctuating

trunk of the puff frame at almost every bar--an Apollo brilliancy in

energetic pursuit of the nymph of sweet sound. too methodical one, too

fiery the other.



in duet of Hauptmann’s, with Nesta at the piano, the contrast of dull

smoothness and overstressed significance be very noticeable beside the

fervent accuracy of her balanced fingering; and as she could also flute,

she could criticize; though latterly, the flute be box away from

lip that have devote themselves wholly to song: song be one of the

damsel’s present press ambition. she find nothing to correct in

Mr. Sowerby, and her father be open to all the censure; but her father

could plead vitality, passion. he hold his performance cheap after the

vehement display; he be a happy listener, whether to the babble of

his ‘dear old Corelli,’ or to the majesty of the rattle heaven and

sway forest of Beethoven.



his air of listening be a thing to see; it have a look of disembodiment;

the sparkle conjure up from deep, and the life in the sparkle, as of

a soul at holiday. eye have be give this man to spy the pleasure

and reveal the joy of his pasture on they: gateway to the sunny

within, issue to all the outer Edens. few of we possess that double

significance of the pure sparkle. it captivate Lady Grace. she say a

word of it to Fenellan: ‘there be a man who can feel rapture!’ he have

not to follow the line of her sight: she say so on a previous evening,

in a similar tone; and for a woman to repeat herself, use the very

emphasis, be quaint. she could feel rapture; but her feature and limb

be in motion to designate it, between simply and wilfully; she have

the instinct to be dimple, and would not for a moment control it, and

delight in its effectiveness: only when observe that wing sparkle

of eye do an idea of envy, hardly a consciousness, inform she of be

surpass; and it might be in the capacity to feel besides the gift to

express. such a reflection relate to a man, will make woman mortally

sensible that they be the feminine of he.



‘his girl have the look,’ Fenellan say in answer.



she cast a glance at Nesta, then at Nataly.



and it be true, that the figure of a mother, not pretend to the

father’s vividness, eclipse it somewhat in their child. the mother give

richness of tone, hue and voice, and stature likewise, and the thick

brown lock, which in her own be thread of gold along the brush from

the temple: she give the girl a certain degree of the composure of

manner which Victor could not have bestow; she give nothing to clash

with his genial temper; she might be suppose to have give various

quality, moral if you like. but vividness be Lady Grace’s admirable

meteor of the hour: she be unable to perceive, so as to compute, the

value of obscurer light. under the charm of Nataly’s rich contralto

during a duet with Priscilla Graves, she gesticulate ecstasy, and

utter they, and genuinely; and still, when reduce to meditation,

they would have have no weight, they would hardly have seem an apology

for language, beside Victor’s gaze of pleasure in the noble forthroll of

the note.



Nataly hear the invitation of the guest of the evening to Lakelands

next day.



her anxiety be at once run about to gather provision for the

basket. she speak of they at night. but Victor have already put the

matter in the hand of Madame Callet; and all that could be do, would

be do by Armandine, he know. ‘if she cann’t muster enough at home,

she’ll be off to her Piccadilly shop by seven A.M. Count on plenty for

twice the number.’



Nataly be repose on the thought that they be her friend, when

Victor mention his have in the afternoon despatch a note to his

relative, the Duvidney lady, invite they to join he at the station

to-morrow, for a visit of inspection to the house of his building on his

new estate. he startle she. the Duvidney lady be, to his knowledge,

of the order of the fragile mind which hold together by the cement of

a common trepidation for the support of thing establish, and have

it not in they to be able to recognize the unsanctioned. good woman,

unworldly of the world, they be perforce hard than the world, from

be narrow and more timorous.



‘but, Victor, you be sure they would refuse!’



he answer: ‘they may have go back to Tunbridge Wells. by the way,

they have a society down there I want for Fredi. sure, do you say, my

dear? perfectly sure. but the accumulation of invitation and refusal

in the end soften they, you will see. we shall and must have they for

Fredi.’



she be use to the long reach of his forecast, his burn activity

on a project; she find it idle to speak her thought, that his ingenuity

would have be needless in a position dictate by plain prudence, and

so much happy for they.



they talk of Mrs. Burman until she have to lift a prayer to be save

from dark thought, dreadfully prolific, not to be face. part of her

prayer be on behalf of Mrs. Burman, for life to be extend to she, if

the poor lady clung to life--if it be really humane to wish it for she:

and heaven would know: heaven have mercy on the afflict.



Nataly hear the snuffle of hypocrisy in her prayer. she have to cease to

pray.









CHAPTER IX. an inspection of LAKELANDS



one may not have an intention to flourish, and may be pardon for a

semblance of it, in exclaim, somewhat royally, as creator and owner

of the place: ‘there you see Lakelands.’



the conveyance from the railway station draw up on a rise of road

front an undulation, where our modern English architect’s fantasia

in crimson brick sweep from central gable to fly wing, over pent,

crook, curve, peak, cowl porch, balcony, recess, projection,

away to a red village of stable and dependent cottage; harmonious

in irregularity; and colour homely with the greensward about it, the

pine beside it, the cloud above it. not many palace would be reckon

as large. the fold and swell and stream of the building along the

roll of ground, have an appearance of an enormous banner on the wind.

Nataly look. her next look be at Colney Durance. she send the

expect nod to Victor’s carriage. she would have give the whole

prospect for the cover solitariness of her chamber. a multitude of

clash sensation, and a throat-thickening hateful to she, compel

she to summon so as to force herself to feel a groundless anger,

direct against none, against nothing, perfectly crazy, but her only

resource for keep down the great wave surgent at her eye.



Victor be like a swimmer in morning sea amid the exclamation

encircle he. he lead through the straight passage of the gallerie

hall, offer two fair landscape at front door and at back, down to

the lake, Fredi’s lake; a good oblong of water, notable in a district

not abound in the commodity. he would have it a feature of the

district; and it have be deepen and extend; up rise the spring,

many run the duct. Fredi’s pretty little bathshed or bower have a space

of marble on the three-foot shallow it overhang with a shade of carve

woodwork; it have a diving-board for an eight-foot plunge; a punt and

small row-boat of elegant build hard by. Green run the bank about, and

a beechwood fringe with birch curtain the Northward length: morning

sun and evening have a fair face of water to paint. see man ever the like

for please a poetical damsel? so be Miss Fredi, the cold of the

party hitherto, and dream a preference of ‘old place’ like Creckholt

and Craye Farm, ‘capture to be enrapture,’ quite accord to man’s

ideal of his beneficence to the sex. she press the hand of her young

french governess, Louise de Seilles. as in everything he do for his

girl, Victor point boastfully to his forethought of her convenience

and her taste: the pine-panel of the interior, the shelf for her

book, peg to hang her favourite drawing, and the couch-bunk under a

window to conceal the summerly recliner while throw full light on

her book; and the hearth-square for log, when she want fire: because

Fredi bathe in any weather: the oaken towel-coffer; the wood-carving

of dove, tit, fish; the rod for the flower silken hanging she be

to choose, and have shy odalisque peep of sunny water from her couch.



‘Fredi’s Naiad retreat, when she wish to escape Herr Strauscher or

Signor Ruderi,’ say Victor, have his grateful girl warm in an arm;

‘and if they head after she into the water, I back she to leave they

puffing; she’s a dolphin. that water have three spring and get all the

drainage of the upland round we. I choose the place chiefly on account of

it and the pine. I do love pine!’



‘but, excellent man! what do you not love?’ say Lady Grace, with the

timely hit upon the obvious, which ring.



‘it save he from accumulation of tissue,’ say Colney.



‘what do?’ be eagerly ask by the wife of the homoeopathic Dr. John

Cormyn, a sentimental lady beset with fear of stoutness.



Victor cry: ‘tush; don’t listen to Colney, pray.’



but she hear Colney speak of a positive remedy; more immediately

effective than an abjuration of potato and sugar. she be oblige by

her malady to listen, although detest the irreverent ruthless man,

who could direct expand frame, in a serious tone, to love; love

everybody, everything; violently and universally love; and so without

intermission pay out the fat create by a rapid assimilation of

nutriment. obeseness be the most sensitive of our ailment: probably as

be aware, that its legitimate appeal to pathos be ever smother in

its pudding-bed of the grotesque. she be pain, and show it, and

be ashamed of herself for show it; and that very nearly fetch the

tear.



‘our host be an instance in proof,’ Colney say. he wave hand at the

house. his meaning be hide; evidently he want victim. sight

of Lakelands have grip he with the fall satiric itch; and it be a

passion to sting and tear, on rational ground. his face meanwhile,

which have point of the handsome, signify a smile asleep, as if

beneath a cloth. only those who know he well be aware of the

claw-like alertness under the droop of eyelid.



admiration be the common note, in the various key. the station

select for the South-eastward aspect of the dark-red gable pile on

its white shell-terrace, back by a plantation of tall pine, a mound

and full-plume company, above the left wing, be admire, in file and

in volley. marvellous, effectively miraculous, be the tale of the vow

to have the great edifice finish within one year: and the strike of

workman, and the friendly colloquy with they, the good reasoning, the

unanimous return to duty; and the doubling, the trebling of the number

of they; and the most glorious of sight--o the grand old English

work with a will! as englishman do when they come at last to heat;

and they conquer, there be then nothing that they cannot conquer. so

the conqueror said.--And admirable be the conservatory run three

long line, one from the drawing-room, to a central dome for tropical

growth. and the parterre be admire; also the newly-plant irish

juniper bound the West-walk; and the three tier of stately descent

from the three green terrace bank to the grassy slope over the lake.

again the lake be admire, the house admire. admiration be evoke for

great orchid-house ‘over yonder,’ soon to be set up.



off we go to the kitchen-garden. there the admiration be genial,

practical. we admire the extent of the bed mark out for asparagus,

and the french disposition of the planting at wide interval; and the

french system of training peach, pear, and plum tree on the wall to

win length and catch sun, we much admire. we admire the gardener. we be

induce temporarily to admire the french people. they be sagacious

in fruit-garden. they have not the English Constitution, you think

rightly; but in fruit-garden they grow for fruit, and not, as Victor

quote a friend, for wood, which the valiant English achieve. we hear

and we see example of sagacity; and we be far bring round to

the old confession, that we cannot cook; Colney Durance have we there; we

have not study herb and savour; and so we be shock backward

step by step until we retreat precipitately into the nook where waxen

taper, carefully tend by writer on the Press, light-up mysterious

image of our national self for admiration. something surely we do, or

we should not be where we be. but what be it we do (except cricket,

of course) which other cannot do? Colney ask; and he exclude cricket

and football.



an acutely satiric man in an english circle, that do not resort to the

fist for a reply to he, may almost satiate the excessive fury rouse

in his mind by an illogical people of a provocative prosperity, mainly

tongueless or of leaden tongue above the pressure of their necessity,

as he take they to be. they give he so many opportunity. they be

angry and helpless as the log hiss to the saw. their instinct to make

use of the downright in retort, restrain as it be by a buttoned coat

of civilization, be amusing, invite. Colney Durance allure they to

the quag’s edge and plunge they in it, to writhe patriotically; and

although it may be say, that they feel their situation less than do he

the venom they spring in his blood, he be cruel; he cause discomfort.

but these good friend about he stand for the country, an illogical

country; and as he could not well attack his host Victor Radnor, an

irrational man, he select the abstract entity for the discharge of his

honest spite.



the irrational friend be deep at the source of his irritation than

the illogical old motherland. this house of Lakelands, the senselessness

of his friend in build it and design to live in it, after

experience of an incapacity to stand in a serene contention with the

world he challenge, excite Colney’s wasp. he be punish, half way

to frenzy behind his placable demeanour, by have Dr. Schlesien for

chorus. and here again, it be the unbefitting, not the person, which

stir his wrath. a german on english soil should remember the due of

a guest. at the same time, Colney say thing to snare the acclamation

of an observant gentleman of that race, who be no long in his first

enthusiasm for english beef and the complexion of the woman. ‘ah, ya,

it be true, what you say: “the English grow as fast as odder, but

they grow to corn instead of brain.” they be Bull. Quaat true.’ he

bellow on a laugh the last half of the quotation.



Colney mark he. his encounter with Fenellan be enliven

engagement and leave no malice; only a regret, when the fencing pass

his guard, that Fenellan should prefer to flash for the minute. he would

have meet a pert defender of England, in the person of Miss Priscilla

Graves, if she have not be occupy with observation of the bearing

of Lady Grace Halley toward Mr. Victor Radnor; which displease she on

behalf of Mrs. Victor; she be besides hostile by race and class to an

aristocratic assumption of licence. Sparing Colney, she with some scorn

condemn Mr. Pempton for allow his country to be ridicule without

a word. Mr. Pempton believe that the vegetarian movement be

more progressive in England than in other land, but he be at the

disadvantage with the fair Priscilla, that eulogy of his compatriot

on this account would win her cold approval. ‘Satire be never an

argument,’ he say, too evasively.



the Rev. Septimus Barmby receive the meed of her smile, for say in

his many-fathom bass, with an eye on Victor: ‘at least we may boast of

breed man, who be leader of man.’



the announcement of luncheon, by Victor’s butler Arlington, opportunely

follow and freight the remark with a happy recognition of that which

come to we from the hand of conqueror. Dr. Schlesien himself, no

antagonist to England, but like Colney Durance, a critic, speculate in

view of the spread of pic-nic provision beneath the great glass dome, as

to whether it might be, that these English be on another start out of

the dust in vigorous commercial enterprise, under leadership of one of

their chance masterly mind-merchant, in this instance: and be debate

within, whether Genius, occasionally develop in a surprising superior

manner by these haphazard English, may not sometimes wrest the prize

from Method; albeit we count for the long run, that Method have assurance

of success, however late in the race to set forth.



Luncheon be a merry meal, with Victor and Nataly for host and hostess;

Fenellan, Colney Durance, and Lady Grace Halley for the talker. a gusty

bosom of sleet overhang the dome, rattle on it, and roll Westward,

become a radiant mountain-land, partly worthy of Victor’s phrase: ‘a

range of Swiss Alps in air.’



‘with periwig Louis Quatorze for peak,’ Colney add.



and Fenellan improve on he: ‘or a magnify Bench of Judges at the

trial of your caerulean Phryne.’



the strip of white cloud fly on a whirl from the blue, to confirm it.



but Victor and Lady Grace reject any play of conceit upon nature.

violent and horrid intervention of the counterfeit, such mad simile

appear to they, when pure coin be offer. they loathe the Rev.

Septimus Barmby for proclaim, that he have see ‘chapter of Hebrew

history in the grouping of cloud.’



his gaze be any one of the Chapters upon Nesta. the clerical

gentleman’s voice be of a depth to claim for it the profound which

can be think or utter; and Nesta’s tender youth have take so strong

an impression of sacredness from what Fenellan call ‘his chafer

tone,’ that her look be often give he in gratitude, for the mere

sound. Nataly also have her sense of safety in acquiesce to such a

voice come from such a garb. consequently, whenever Fenellan and

Colney be at he, draw he this way and that for utterance

cathedral in sentiment and sonorousness, these lady shed protect

beam; insomuch that he be inspire to the agreeable conception

whereof frequently rash project be an issue.



touch the neighbour of Lakelands, they be principally enrich

merchant, it appear; a snippet or two of the fringe of aristocracy

lie here and there among they; and one racy-of-the-soil old son of

Thames, have the manner proper to last century’s yeoman. Mr. Pempton

know something of this quaint squire of Hefferstone, Beaves urmsing by

name; a ruddy man, right heartily Saxon; a still glow brand amid the

ashe of the Heptarchy hearthstone; who have a song, the Marigolds, which

he would troll out for you anywhere, on any occasion. to have so near

to the metropolis one from the centre of the venerable rotundity of

the country, be rare. victor exclaim ‘come!’ in ravishment over the

picturesqueness of a neighbour carry imagination away to the fount

of England; and his look at Nataly propose. her countenance be

inapprehensive. he perceive resistance, and say: ‘I have meet two

or three of they in the train: agreeable man: Gladding, the banker; a

General Fanning; that man Blathenoy, great billbroker. but the fact

be, close on London, we’re independent of neighbour; we mean to be.

lakeland and London practically join.’



‘the mother city become the suburb,’ murmur Colney, in report of the

union.



‘you must expect to be invade, sir,’ say Mr. Sowerby; and Victor

shrug: ‘we be pretty safe.’



‘the lock of a door seem a potent security until some one outside be

hear finger the handle nigh midnight,’ Fenellan throw out his airy

nothing of a remark.



it strike on Nataly’s heart. ‘so you will not let we be lonely here,’

she say to her guest.



the Rev. Septimus Barmby be mouthpiece for congregation. sound of a

subterranean roar, with a blast at the orifice, inform she of their

‘very deep happiness in the privilege.’



he comfort she. Nesta smile on he thankfully.



‘don’t imagine, Mrs. Victor, that you can be shut off from neighbour,

in a house like this; and they have a claim,’ say Lady Grace, quit

the table.



Fenellan and Colney think so:



‘like mouse at a cupboard.’



‘Beetles in a kitchen.’



‘no, no-no, no!’ Victor shake head, pitiful over the good people liken

to thing unclean, and royally upraise they: in do which, he

scatter to vapour the leaden incubi they have be upon his flatter

mood of late. ‘no, but it’s a rapture to breathe the air here!’ his

lift chest and nostril be for the encouragement of Nataly to soar

beside he.



she summon her smile and nod.



he speak aside to Lady Grace: ‘the dear soul want time to compose

herself after a grand surprise.’



she reply: ‘I think I could soon be reconcile. how much land?’



‘in treaty for some hundred and eighty or ninety acre... in all

at present three hundred and seventy, include plantation, lake,

outhouse.’



‘large enough; land pay as it do--that be, not pay. we shall be

have to gamble in the City systematically for subsistence.’



‘you will not so much as jest on the subject.’



come from such a man, that be clear sky thunder. the lady play

it off in a shadowy pout and shrug while take a stamp of his

masterfulness, not so volatile.



she say to Nataly: ‘our place in Worcestershire be about half the size,

if as much. large enough when we’re not crowd out with gout and can

open to no one. some day you will visit we, I hope.’



‘you we count on here, Lady Grace.’



it be an over-accentuate response; unusual with this well-breed woman;

and a bit of speech that do not flow, cause we to speculate. the lady

resume: ‘I value the favour. we’re in a horsey-doggy-foxy circle down

there. we want enliven. if we have your set of musician and talker!’



Nataly smile in vacuous kindness, at a loss for the retort of a

compliment to a person she measure. Lady Grace also be an amiable

hostile reviewer. each could see, to have cite in the other, defect

common to the low specie of the race, admit a superior personal

quality or two; which might be plead in extenuation; and if the

apology prove too effective, could be disperse by insistence upon it,

under an imply appeal to benevolence. when we have not a liking for

the creature whom we have no plain cause to dislike, we be minutely

just.



during the admiratory stroll along the ground-floor room, Colney

Durance find himself beside Dr. Schlesien; the latter smoking,

stride, emphasizing, but bearable, as the one of the party who be

not perpetually at the gape in laudation. Colney be hear to say:

‘no doubt: the German be the race the least mixed in Europe: it might

challenge aboriginal for that. oddly, it have invent the Cyclopaedia

for knowledge, the sausage for nutrition! how would you explain it?’



Dr. Schlesien reply with an Atlas shrug under fleabite to the

insensately infantile interrogation.



he in turn be presently hear.



‘but, my good sir! you quote I your English Latin. I must beg of you

you write it down. it be orally incomprehensible to Continentals.’



‘we be islander!’ Colney shrug in languishment.



‘oh, you do great thing...’ Dr. Schlesien rejoin in kindness, make

his voice a musical intimation of the smallness of the thing.



‘we build great house, to employ our brick’



‘no, Colney, to live in,’ say Victor.



‘scarcely long enough to warm they.’



‘what do you... fiddle!’



‘they be not Hohenzollerns!’



‘it be true,’ Dr. Schlesien call. ‘no, but you learn discipline; you

build. I say wid you, not Hohenzollerns you build! but you shall look

above: eye up. Ire necesse est. good, but mount; you come to something.

have idea.’



‘good, but when do we reach your level?’



‘Sir, I do not say more than that we do not want instruction from

foreigner.’



‘pupil to paedagogue indeed. you have the wreath in Music, in

Jurisprudence, Chemistry, Scholarship, Beer, Arms, Manners.’



Dr. Schlesien puff a tempest of tobacco and strode.



‘he be chisel for wit in the teutonic block,’ Colney say, fall

back to Fenellan.



Fenellan observe: ‘you might have credit he with the finish

sculpture.’



‘they’re ahead of we in stick at the charge of wit.’



‘they’ve a widening of their swallow since Versailles.’



‘manner?’



‘well, that’s a tight cravat for the teutonic thrapple! but he’s off by

himself to loosen it.’



Victor come on the couple testily. ‘what be you two concoct! I

say, do keep the peace, please. an excellent good fellow; well up in

politic than any man I know; understand music; mean well, you can

see. you two hate a man at all serious. and he don’t bore with his

knowledge. a scholar too.’



‘if he’ll bring we the atmosphere of the grove of Academe, he may swing

his ferule pickle in himself, and welcome,’ say Fenellan.



‘yes!’ Victor nod at a recognize antagonism in Fenellan; ‘but

Colney’s always lift the Germans high above we.’



‘it’s to exercise his muscle.’



Victor head to the other apartment, think that the Rev. Septimus

and young Sowerby, Old England herself, be spare by the diversion

of these light skirmish shot from their accustomed victim to the

‘masculine people of our time. his friend would want a drilling to be

of aid to he in his campaign to come. for it be one, and a great one.

he remember his complete perception of the plan, all the element of

it, the forward whirling of it, just before the fall on London Bridge.

the greatness of his enterprise lay such hold of he that the small

of obstacle have a villanous aspect; and when, as anticipate, Colney

and Fenellan be sultry fly for whomsoever they could fret, he be

blind to the reading of absurdity which cause Fredi’s eye to stream

and Lady Grace beside he to stand awhile and laugh out her fit. Young

Sowerby appear forgive enough--he be a perfect gentleman: but

Fredi’s appalling sense of fun must try he hard. and those young

fellow be often more wound by a girl’s thoughtless laughter than by

a man’s contempt. Nataly should have protect he. her face have the

air of a smile general satisfaction; sign of a pleasure below the

mark require; sign too of a sleepy partner for a battle. even in the

wonderful kitchen, arch and pillare (where the explanation come to

Nesta of Madame Callet’s frequent leave of absence of late, when an

inferior dinner trouble her father in no degree), even there his Nataly

listen to the transport of the guest with benign indulgence.



‘Mama!’ say Nesta, ready to be entrance by kitchen in her bubble

animation: she mean the recalling of instance of the conspirator she

father have be.



‘you none of you guess Armandine’s business!’ Victor cry, in a glee

that push to make the utmost of this matter and count against chagrin.

‘she be off to Paris; go to test the last inventions:--French brain

be always alert:--and in fact, those kitchen-range, gas and coal, and

the apparatus for warming plate and dish, the whole of the battery be

on the model of the Duc d’Ariane’s--fine in Europe. well,’ he agree

with Colney, ‘to say France be enough.’



Mr. Pempton speak to Miss Graves of the task for a woman to conduct a

command so extensive. and, as when an inoffensive wayfarer have chance

to set foot near a wasp’s nest, out on he come woman and her champion,

the worthy and the sham, like a blast of powder.



Victor ejaculate: ‘Armandine!’ whoever doubt her capacity, know not

Armandine; or not know Armandine, know not the capacity in woman.



with that utterance of her name, he see the orangey spot on London

Bridge, and the sink Tower and mast and funnel, and the rise of

they, on his return to his leg; he recollect, that at the very edge

of the fall he have Armandine strongly in his mind. she be to do she

part: Fenellan and Colney on the surface, she below: and hospitality

be to do its part, and music be impress--the innocent Concerts; his

wealth, all his inventiveness be to serve;--and merely to attract

and win the taste of people, for a social support to Lakelands! merely

that? much more:--if Nataly’s coldness to the place would but allow he

to form an estimate of how much. at the same time, be in the grasp of

his present disappointment, he perceive a meanness in the result,

that be astonishing and afflict. he have not ever previously feel

imagination starve at the vision of success. Victor have yet to learn,

that the man with a material object in aim, be the man of his object;

and the nearer to his mark, often the far be he from a sober self;

he be more the arrow of his bow than bow to his arrow. this we pay for

scheming: and success be costly; we find we have pledge the well half

of ourselves to clutch it; not to be redeem with the whole handful of

our prize! he be, however, learn after his leap fashion. Nataly’s

defective sympathy make he look at thing through the feeling she

depress. a shadow of his miss Idea on London Bridge seem to cross

he from the close flapping of a wing within reach. he could say only,

that it would, if catch, have be an answer to the thought disturb

he.



Nataly draw Colney Durance with her eye to step beside she, on the

descent to the terrace. Little Skepsey hove in sight, come swift as

the point of an outrigger over the flood.









CHAPTER X. SKEPSEY in MOTION



the bearer of his master’s midday letter from London shoot beyond

Nataly as soon as see, with an apparent snap of his body in pass. he

steam to the end of the terrace and deliver the packet, return

at the same rate of speed, to do proper homage to the lady he so much

respect. he have leave the railway-station on foot instead of take a

fly, because of a calculation that he would save three minute; which

he have not lose for have to come through the raincloud. ‘perhaps the

contrary,’ Skepsey say: it might be judge to have accelerate his

course: and his hat drip, and his coat shine, and he soap his

hand, cheerful as an ouzel-cock when the sun be out again.



‘many crack crown lately, in the manly art?’ Colney inquire of he.

and Skepsey answer with precision of statement: ‘crown, no, sir; the

nose, it may happen; but it cannot be say to be the rule.’



‘you be of opinion, that the practice of scientific Pugilism offer we

compensation for the broken bridge of a nose?’



‘in an increase of manly self-esteem: I do, sir, yes.’



Skepsey be shy of this gentleman’s bite; and he fancy his defence have

be correct. perceive a crumple of the lip of Mr. Durance, he take

the attitude of a watchful dubiety.



‘but, my goodness, you be wet through!’ cry Nataly, reproach

herself for the tardy compassion; and Nesta run up to they and heap

a thousand pity on her ‘poor dear Skip,’ and drive he in beneath the

glass-dome to the fragment of pic-nic, and pour champagne for he,

‘lest his wife should have to doctor he for a cold,’ and pour afresh,

when he have obey she: ‘for the toasting of Lakelands, dear Skepsey!’

impossible to resist: so he drank, and blink; and be then tell, that

before use his knife and fork he must betake himself to some fire

of shaving and chip, where coffee be be make, for the purpose of

dry his clothe. but this he would not hear of: he be pledge to

business, to convey his master’s letter, and he might have to catch a

train by the last quarter-minute, unless it be behind the time-table;

he must hold himself ready to start. entreat, adjure, command,

Skepsey commiseratingly observe to Colney Durance, ‘the lady do not

understand, sir!’ for Turk of Constantinople have never a more hareme

opinion of the unfitness of woman in the brave world of action. the

persistence of these lady endeavour to obstruct he in the course

of his duty, must have succeed save that for one word of theirs he have

two, and twice the promptitude of motion. he explain to they, as to

good child, that the loss of five minute might be the loss of a

Post, the loss of thousand of pound, the loss of the character of a

firm; and he be away to the terrace. Nesta head he and wave he

back. she and her mother rebuke he: they call he unreasonable;

wherein they resemble the chief example of the sex to he, in a wife he

have at home, who level that charge against her husband when most she

need discipline: the woman lay hand on the very word legitimately his

own for the justification of his process with she.



‘but, Skips! if you be ill and we have to nurse you!’ say Nesta.



she forget the hospital, he tell she cordially, and laugh at the

notion of a ducking produce a cold or a cold a fever, or anything

consumption, with he. so the lady have to keep down their anxious

mind and allow he to stand in wet clothing to eat his cold pie and

salad.



Miss Priscilla Graves enter to they, become a witness that they be

seductress for induce he to drink wine--and a sparkling wine.



‘it be to warm he,’ they plead; and she say: ‘he must be warm from

his walk’; and they say: ‘but he be wet’; and say she, without a show

of feeling: ‘warm water, then’; and Skepsey writhe, as if in the grasp

of anatomist, at be the subject of female contention or humane

consideration. Miss Graves catch sign of the possible proselyte in

he; she remark encouragingly:



‘I be sure he do not like it; he still have a natural taste.’



she distress his native politeness, for the glass be in his hand, and

he be fully aware of her high-principle aversion; and he profoundly

bow to principle, believe his England to be pillare on they; and

the lady look like one who bear the standard of a principle; and if we

slap and pinch and starve our appetite, the idea of a principle seem

enter we to support. subscribe to a principle, our energy be

refresh; we have a faith in the country that be not with we before

the act; and of a real well-found faith come the glow thought

which we have at time: thought of England head the nation; when

the smell of an english lane under shower challenge Eden, and the

threading of a London crowd tune discord to the swell of a cathedral

organ. it may be, that by the renunciation of any description of

alcohol, a man will stand clearer-headed to serve his country. he may

expect to have a clear memory, for certain: he will not be ask

himself, unable to decide, whether his master name a Mr. Journeyman or

a Mr. Jarniman, as the person he decline to receive. either of the

two be repulse upon his application, owe to the guilty similarity of

sound but what we be to think of be, our own sad state of inefficiency

in fail to remember; which accuse our physical condition, therefore

our habits.--Thus the little man debate, scarcely require more than

to hear the right word, to be a convert and make he a garland of the

proselyte’s fetter.



destructively for the cause she advocate, Miss Priscilla gesture the

put forth of an abjuring hand, with the recommendation to he, so to

put aside temptation that instant; and she signify in a very ugly jerk

of her feature, the vilely filthy stuff Morality think it, however

please it might be to a palate corrupt by indulgence of the sensual

appetite.



but the glass have be hand to he by the lady he respect, who

look angelical in offer it, divinely other than ugly; and to she

he could not be discourteous; not even to pay his homage to the

representative of a principle. he bow to Miss Graves, and drank, and

rush forth; hear shout behind he.



his master have a packet of paper ready, easy for the pocket.



‘by the way, Skepsey,’ he say, ‘if a man name Jarniman should call at

the office, I will see he.’



Skepsey’s grey eye come out.



or be it Journeyman, that his master would not see; and Jarniman that

he would?



his habit of obedience, pride of apprehension, and the time to catch

the train, forbade inquiry. besides he know of himself of old, that his

puzzle be well unriddled run.



the quick of pace be soon in the quick of thought.



Jarniman, then, be a man whom his master, not want to see, one day,

and want to see, on another day, might wish to conciliate: a case of

policy. let Jarniman go. Journeyman, on the other hand, be nobody

at all, a ghost of the fancy. yet this Journeyman be as important an

individual, he be a dread reality; more important to Skepsey in

the light of patriot: and only in that light be he permit of a

scrupulous conscience and modest mind to think upon himself when the

immediate subject be his master’s interest. for this Journeyman have

not an excuse for existence in Mr. Radnor’s pronunciation: he be bear

of the buzz of a troubled ear, come of a disorder brain, consequent

necessarily upon a disorderly stomach, that might protest a degree of

comparative innocence, but would be shame utterly under inspection of

the eye of a lady of principle.



what, then, be the value to his country of a servant who could not

accurately recollect his master’s word! Miss Graves within he ask

the rapid little man, whether indeed his idea be his own after

draught of champagne.



the idea, excited to an urgent animation by his race trot, be a

quiverful in flight over an England terrible to the foe and dance on

the green. right so: but would we keep up the dance, we must be red iron

to touch: and the fighter for conquering be the one who can last and have

the open brain;--and there you have a point against alcohol. yes, and

Miss Graves, if she would press it, with her natural face, could be

pleasant and persuasive: and she ought to be tell she ought to marry,

for the good of the country. woman take liquor: Skepsey have a vision

of his wife with rheumy peeper and miauly mouth, as he have once beheld

the creature:--Oh! they need discipline not such would we have for the

mother of our english young. decidedly the woman of principle be bind

to enter wedlock; they should be bind by law. whereas, in the oppose

case--the binding of the unprincipled to a celibate state--such a law

would have save Skepsey from the necessitate commission of deed of

discipline with one of the female sex, and have rescue his progeny from

a likeness to the corn-stalk revert to weed. he have but a son for

England’s defence; and the frame of his boy might be set quake by a

thump on the wind of a drum; the courage of William Barlow Skepsey would

not stand against a sheep; it would wind-up hare to have a run at he

out in the field. offspring of a woman of principle!... but there be no

rub out in life: why dream of it? only that one would not have one’s

country the loser!



Dwell a moment on the reverse--and first remember the lesson of

the Captivity of the Jews and the outcry of their backsliding and

repentance:--see a nation of the honourably begotten; muscular man

disdain the luxury they will occasionally condescend to taste,

like some tribe in Greece; boxer, rower, runner, climber; braced,

indomitable; magnanimous, as only the strong can be; an army at word,

win at a stroke the double battle of the hand and the heart: man

who can walk the path through the garden of the pleasure. they receive

fitting mate, of a build to promise or aid in ensure depth of chest

and long reach of arm for their progeny.



Down go the world before they.



and we see how much would be due for this to a corps of lady like Miss

grave, not allow to remain too long on the stalk of spinsterhood. she

age might count twenty-eight: too long! she should be teach that

man can, though truly ordinary woman cannot, walk these orderly path

through the garden. an admission to woman, hint restriction, on a

ticket mark ‘in moderation’ (mean, that they may pluck a flower or

fruit along the pathway border to which they be confine), speedily,

alas, exhibit they at a mad scramble across the pleasure-bed. they

know not moderation. neither for their own sake nor for the sake of

Posterity will they hold from excess, when they be not pledge to shun

it.



the reason be, that their mind cannot conceive the abstract, as man do.



but there be ground for suppose that the example before they of a

sex exercise self-control in freedom, would induce woman to pledge

themselves to a similar abnegation, until they gain some sense of touch

upon the impalpable duty to the generation come after we thank to

the voluntary example we set they.



the stupendous task, which have hitherto baffle Skepsey in the course of

conversational remonstrance with his wife;--that of get the Idea of

Posterity into the understanding of its principal agent, might then be

master.



therefore clearly man have to begin the salutary movement: it manifestly

devolve upon they. let they at once take to rigorous physical

training. woman under compulsion, as vessel: man in their magnanimity,

patriotically, voluntarily.



Miss Graves must have have an intimation for he; he guess it; and it

plunge he into a conflict with she, that do not suffer he to

escape without ruefully feel the feebleness of his vocabulary: and

consequently he make a reluctant appeal to figure, and it hang upon the

bold exhibition of list and table as to whether he be beat; and

if beat, he be morally her captive; and this be the case, nothing

could be more repulsive to Skepsey; see that he, unable of his nature

passively or partially to undertake a line of conduct, beheld himself

wear a detestable ‘ribbon,’ for sign of an oath quite needlessly

swear (simply to satisfy the lady overcome he with nimbler tongue),

and block the street, march in band beneath banner, howl

hymn.



statistic, upon which his master and friend, after exchange opinion

in argument, always fall back, frighten he. as long as they have

no opponent of their own kind, they sweep the field, they be

intelligible, as the word ‘principle’ have become. but the appearance of

one body of Statistics invariably bring up another; and the stroke

and counterstroke be like a play of quarter-staff on the sconce,

to knock all comprehension out of Skepsey. otherwise he would not

unwillingly have inquire to-morrow into the Statistics of the

controversy between the water of the well and of the cask, prepare

to walk over to the victorious, however objectionable that proceeding.

he hope to question his master some day except that his master would

very naturally have a tendency to sum-up in favour of wine--good

wine, in moderation; just as Miss Graves for the cup of tea--not so

thoughtfully stipulate that it should be good and not too copious.

statistic be accord to their conjuror; they be not independent

body, with native colour; they need must be paint by the different

hand they pass through, and they may be multiply; a nought or so

count for nothing with the teller. Skepsey see that. yet they can

overcome: even as fictitious battalion, they can overcome. he shrink

from the result of a cipher match have he for object, and be

ashamed of feel to Statistics as woman to giant; nevertheless he

acknowledge that the badge be upon he, if Miss Graves should beat

her master in her array of figure, to insist on his wear it, as she

would, she certainly would. and against his internal conviction perhaps;

with the knowledge that the figure be an unfortified display, and his

oath of bondage an unmanly servility, the silly of ceremony! he be

shockingly feminine to Statistics.



Mr. Durance despise they: he call they, argue against Mr. Radnor,

‘those emotional thing,’ not comprehensibly to Skepsey. but Mr.

Durance, a very clever gentleman, could not be right in everything. he

make strange remark upon his country. Dr. Yatt attribute they to the

state of ‘his digestion.



and Mr. Fenellan have say of Mr. Durance that, as ‘a barrister want

brief, the speech in he have be bottle too long and be an overripe

wine drip sour drop through the rotten cork.’ Mr. Fenellan say it

laugh, he mean no harm. Skepsey be sure he have the word. he hear

no more than other people hear; he remember whole sentence, and many:

on one of his run, this active little machine, quicken by motion to

fire, revive the audible of year back; whatever suit his turn of

mind at the moment rush to the rapid wheel within he. his master’s

business and friend, his country’s welfare and advancement, these, with

record, item, anticipation, of the manly sport to decorate, be

his current theme; all be chop and toss and mix in salad

accordance by his fervour of velocity. and if you would like a further

definition of Genius, think of it as a form of swiftness. it be the

lively young great-grandson, in the brain, of the travel force which

mathematician put to paper, in a row of astounding cipher, for the

motion of earth through space; to the generating of heat, whereof

be multiplication, whereof deposited matter, and so your chaos, your

half-light labyrinth, your, ceaseless pressure to evolvement; and then

Light, and so Creation, order, the work of Genius. what do you say?



without have a great brain, the measure of it possess by Skepsey be

alive under strong illumination. in his heart, while do penance for

his presumptuousness, he believe that he could lead regiment of man.

he be not the army’s General, he be the General’s Lieutenant, now and

then venture to suggest a piece of counsel to his chief. on his own

particular drill regiment, his Chief may rely; and on his knowledge

of the country of the campaign, road, morass, mask hill, divide

river. he have map for himself mentally the battle of conqueror in

his favourite historic reading; and he understand the value of a plan,

and the danger of stick to it, and the advantage of a big army for

flanking; and he manoeuvre a small one cunningly to make it a bolt at

the tell instant. Dartrey Fenellan have explain to he Frederick’s

oblique attack, Napoleon’s employment of the artillery arm preparatory

to the hurling of the cataract on the spot of weakness, Wellington’s

parallel march with Marmont up to the hour of the decisive cut through

the latter at Salamanca; and Skepsey treat his enemy to the like,

deferentially report the engagement to a Chief whom his modesty keep

in eminence, for the receiving of the principal honour. as to his man,

of all class and sort, they be so supple with training that they

sustain a defeat like the sturdy pugilist a knock off his leg, and up

smile a minute after--one of the truly beautiful sight on this

earth! they go at the double half a day, never sound a single pair

of bellow among they. they have their appetite in full control, to eat

when they can, or cheerfully fast. they have healthy frame, you see;

and as the healthy frame be not artificially heat, it ensue that,

under any title you like, they profess the principle--into the bog we

go, we have get round to it!--the principle of those horrible marching

and chant people!



then, must our England, to be redoubtable to the enemy, be a detestable

country for habitation?



here be a knot.



Skepsey’s head drop lower, he go as a ram. the saying of Mr.

Durance about his dear England: that ‘her remainder of life be in the

activity of she diseases’--that ‘she have so feed upon pap of Compromise

as to be unable any long to conceive a muscular resolution’: that ‘she

be animate only as the carcase to the blow-fly’; and so forth:--charged

on he during his wrestle with his problem. and the gentleman have say,

have permit himself to say, that our England’s recent history be a

provincial apothecary’s exhibition of the battle of bane and antidote.

Mr. Durance could hardly mean it. but how could one answer he when he

speak of the torpor of the people, and of the succeed government as

a change of lacquey--or the purse-string’s lacquey? he say, that Old

England have take to the arm-chair for good, and think it her whole

business to pronounce opinion and listen to herself; and that, in the

face of an armed Europe, this great nation be live on sufferance. oh!



Skepsey have utter the repudiating exclamation.



‘feel quite up to it?’ he be ask by his neighbour.



the mover of armed host for the defence of the country sit in a

third-class carriage of the train, approach the first of the station

on the way to town. he be instantly up to the level of an external

world, and fall into give and take with a burly broad communicative man;

locate in London, but bear in the North, in view of Durham cathedral,

as he thank his Lord; who be of the order of pork-butcher; which

succulent calling have carry he down to near upon the border of

Surrey and Sussex, some mile beyond the new big house of a Mister

whose name he have forget, though he have hear it mention by an

acquaintance interested in the gentleman’s doing. but his object be to

have a look at a rare breed of swine, worth the journey; that don’t

run to fat so much as to flavour, have long leg, sharp snout to plump

their ham; over from Spain, it seem; and the gentleman own

they be for sell they, find they wild past correction. but the

acquaintance mention, who be down to visit t’ other gentleman’s big

new edifice in workman’s hand, have a mother, who have be cook to a

family, and be now widow of a cook’s shop; ham, beef, and sausage,

prime pie to order; and a good speciman herself; and if ever her son

see her spirit at his bedside, there wouldn’t be room for much else in

that chamber--suppose we to keep our shape. but he be the right sort

of son, anxious to push his mother’s shop where he see a chance, and

do it cheap; and those foreign pig, after a disappointment to their

importer, might be have pretty cheap, and be account tasty.



Skepsey’s main thought be upon war: the man have discourse of pig.



he inform the man of his having hear from a scholar, that pig have

be the cause of more bloody battle than any other animal.



how so? the pork-butcher ask, and say he be not much of a scholar,

and pig might be provoke, but he have not hear they be a cause of

strife between man and man. for possession of they, Skepsey explain.

oh! possession! why, we’ve hear of bloody battle for the possession of

woman! man will fight for almost anything they care to get or call their

own, the pork-butcher say; and he praise Old England for avoid war.

Skepsey nod. how if war be force on we? then we fight. suppose we

be not prepared?--We soon get that up. Skepsey request he to state

the degree of resistance he might think he could bring against a pair of

skilful fist, in a place out of hearing of the police.



‘say, you!’ say the pork-butcher, and sharply smile, for he be a man

of size.



‘I would give you two minute,’ rejoin Skepsey, eye he intently

and kindly: insomuch that it could be see he be not in the conundrum

vein.



‘rather short allowance, eh, master?’ say the big man. ‘feel here’;

he straighten out his arm and double it, raise a proud bridge of

muscle.



Skepsey perform the national homage to muscle.



‘twice that, would not help without the science,’ he remark, and let

his arm be grip in turn.



the pork-butcher’s throat sound, as it be, comma and colon,

punctuation in his reflection, while he tighten finger along the

iron lump. ‘stringy. you’re a wiry one, no mistake.’ it be encomium.

with the ingrained contempt of size for a smallness that have not yet

teach it the prostrate lesson, he say: ‘weight tell.’



‘in a wrestle,’ Skepsey admit. ‘allow I to say, you would not touch

I.’



‘and how do you know I’m not a trifle handy with the mauler myself?’



‘you will pardon I for say, it would be bad for you if you be.’



the pork-butcher be fling backward. ‘be you a Professor, may I

inquire?’



Skepsey reject the title. ‘I can engage to teach young man, upon a

proper observance of first principle.’



‘they be hang!’ cry the ruffle pork-butcher. ‘our good man never

get it out of book. now, you tell I--you’ve get a spiflicate style

of talk about you--no brag, you tell I--course, the good man win, if

you mean that: now, if I be one of ‘em, and I fetch you a bit of a

flick, how then? would you be ready to step out with a real professor?’



‘I should claim a fair field,’ be the answer, make in modesty.



‘and you’d expect to whop I with they there principle of your?’



‘I should expect to.’



‘Bang I!’ be roar. after a stare at the mild little figure with the

fitfully dead-level large grey eye in front of he, the pork-butcher

resume: ‘take you for the man you say you be, you’re just the man for

my friend Jam and I. he dearly love to see a set-to, self the same.

what pretty? and if you would be so oblige some day as to favour we

with a display, we’d head a cap conformably, whether you’d the good of

it, accord to your expectation, or t’ other way:--For there never

be shame in a jolly good licking as the song say: that be, if you take

it and make it appear jolly good. and find you an opponent meet and fit,

never doubt. ever have the bad of an encounter, sir?’



‘often, Sir.’



‘well, that’s good. and it don’t destroy your confidence?’



‘add to it, I hope.’



at this point, it become a cry necessity for Skepsey to escape from

an area of boastfulness, into which he have fall inadvertently; and he

hasten to apologize ‘for his personal reference,’ that be intend

for an illustration of our country catch unawares by a highly train

pick soldiery, inferior in number to the patriotic levy, but sharp

at the edge and know how to strike. measure the axe, measure the

tree; and which go down first?



‘Invasion, be it?--and you mean, we’re not to hit back?’ the

pork-butcher bellow, and presently secure a murmured approbation from

an audience of three, that have begin to comprehend the dialogue, and

strengthen he in a manner to teach Skepsey the foolishness of ever

urge analogy of too extend a circle to close sharply on the mark.

he have no long a chance, he be overborne, identify with the fated

invader, roll away into the chop of the Channel, to be swallow

up entire, and not a rag leave of he, but John Bull tuck up his

shirtsleeve on the shingle beach, ready for a second or a third; cry

to they to come on.



warm by his bullish victory, and friendly to the vanquish, the

pork-butcher tell Skepsey he should like to see more of he, and

introduce himself on a card Benjamin Shaplow, not far from the Bank.



they part at the Terminus, where three shriek of an engine, sound

like merry message of the damned to their congener in the anticipatory

stench of the cab-dropping above, disconnected sane hearing; pervert

it, no doubt. or else it be the stamp of a particular name on his mind,

which impress Skepsey, as he bore down the street and across the

bridge, to fancy in recollection, that Mr. Shaplow, when reiterate the

wish for self and friend to witness a display of his cunning with the

fist, have speak the name of Jarniman. an unusual name yet more

than one Jarniman might well exist. and unlikely that a friend of the

pork-butcher would be the person whom Mr. Radnor first prohibit and

then desire to receive. it hardly mattered:--considering that the Dutch

Navy do really, incredible as it seem now, come sail a good way

up the River Thames, into the very main artery of Old England. and

what think the Tower of it? Skepsey look at the Tower in sympathy,

wonder whether the Tower have see those impudent dutch a nice people

at home, he have hear. Mr. Shaplow’s Jarniman might actually be Mr.

Radnor’s, he incline to think. at any rate he be now sure of the name.









CHAPTER XI. wherein we behold the COUPLE justified of love have sight

of their scourge



Fenellan, in a musing exclamation, that be quite spontaneous, have put

a picture on the depart Skepsey, as observe from an end of the

Lakelands upper terrace-walk.



‘queer little water-wagtail it be!’ and Lady Grace Halley and Miss

Graves and Mrs. Cormyn, snugly silken dry one, be so take with the

pretty likeness after hear Victor call the trip dripping creature

the happy man in England, that they nurse it in their mind for a

Bewick tailpiece to the chapter of a pleasant rural day. it imbed the

day in an idea that it have be rural.



we be indebted almost for construction to those who will define we

briefly: we be but scatter leave to the general comprehension of

we until such a work of bind and labelling be do. and should the

definition be not so correct as brevity pretend to make it at one

stroke, we be at least render portable; thus we pass into the

conception of our fellow, into the record, down to posterity.

Anecdotes of England’s happy man be relate, outline of

his personal history request. his nomination in chief among the

traditionally very merry Islanders be hardly bear out by the tale

of his enchainment with a drunken yokefellow--unless upon the Durance

version of the felicity of his countryman; still, the water-wagtail

carry it, Skepsey trot into memory. hero conduct up Fame’s

temple-step by ceremonious historian, who be studious, when the

platform be reach, of the art of set they beneath the flambeau

of a final image, before thrust they inside to be rivette on their

pedestal, have an excellent chance of do the same, let but the

provident narrator direct that image to paint the thing a moth-like

humanity desire, in the thing it shrink from. Miss Priscilla Graves

now fasten her meditation upon Skepsey; and it be important to he.



Tobacco withdraw the haunt shadow of the Rev. Septimus Barmby from

Nesta. she stroll beside Louise de Seilles, to breathe sweet-sweet in

the dear friend’s ear and tell she she love she. the presence of the

German have, without rouse animosity, damp the young Frenchwoman,

even to a revulsion when her feeling have be touch by hear praise

of her France, and wound by the subject of the praise. she bear the

national scar, which be barely skin-clothing of a gash that will not

heal since her country be overthrow and dismember. Colney Durance

could excuse the unreasonableness in she, for it have a dignity, and she

control it, and quietly suffer, trust to the steady, tireless,

concentrated aim of her France. in the Gallic mind of our time, France

appear as a prematurely bury Glory, that heave the mound oppress

breath and cannot cease; and call hourly, at time keenly, to be

remember, rescue from the pain and the mould-spot of that foul

sepulture. Mademoiselle and Colney be friend, partly divide by

she speak once of revanche; whereupon he assume the chair of the

Moralist, with its right to lecture, and go over to the enemy; his

talk savour of a German. our holding of the balance, take two side,

be incomprehensible to a people quiver with the double wound to body

and soul. she be of Breton blood. cymric enough be in Nesta to catch

any thrill from she and join to her mood, if it hang out a colour sad or

gay, and be noble, as any mood of this dear Louise would surely be.



Nataly be not so sympathetic. only the Welsh and pure Irish be quick

at the feeling of the Celtic French. Nataly come of a Yorkshire stock;

she have the bravery, humaneness and generous temper of our civilized

North, and a taste for mademoiselle’s fine breeding, with a distaste

for the singular air of superiority in composure which it be grant to

mademoiselle to wear with an unassailable reserve when the roughness of

the commercial boor be obtrusive. she say of she to Colney, as they

watch the couple stroll by the lake below: ‘Nesta bring she out of

her frost. I suppose it’s the presence of Dr. Schlesien. I have know

it the same after an evening of Wagner’s music.’



‘Richard Wagner germanize ridicule of the French when they be down,’

say Colney. ‘she come of a blood that never forgive.’



‘“never forgive” be horrible to think of! I fancy you like your

“kelt,” as you call they.’



Colney seize on a topic that shelve a less agreeable one that he see

come. ‘you English willn’t descend to understand what do not resemble

you. the French be in a state of feverish patriotism. you refuse to

treat they for a case of fever. they be lop of a limb: you tell they

to be at rest!’



‘you know I be fond of they.’



‘and the kelt, as they be call, cann’t and willn’t forgive injury;

look at Ireland, look at Wales, and the Keltic Scot. have you hear they

talk? it happen in the year 1400: it’s alive to they as if it be

yesterday. old history be as dead to the English as their first father.

they beg for the privilege of pull the forelock to the bearer of the

title of the man who take their land from they and turn they to the

use of cattle. the Saxon English have, no doubt, a heavy thrashing

than any people allow to subsist ever receive: you see it to this

day; the crick of the neck at the name of a lord be now conceal and

deny, but they have it and betray the effect; and it’s patent in

their journal, all over their literature. where it’s not see, another

blood’s at work. the Kelt willn’t accept the form of slavery. let he be

servile, supple, cunning, treacherous, and to appearance time-serve,

he will always remember his day of manly independence and who rob

he: he be the poetic animal of the race of modern man.’



‘you give he Pagan colour.’



‘natural colour. he do not offer the other cheek or turn his back to

be kick after a knock to the ground. instead of ask he to forgive,

which he cannot do, you must teach he to admire. a mercantile community

guide by Political Economy from the ledger to the banquet preside over

by its Dagon Capital, find that difficult. however, there ‘s the secret

of he; that I respect in he. his admiration of an enemy or oppressor

do great deed, win he entirely. he be an active spirit, not your

negative passive letter-of-scripture Insensible. and his fault, short

of ferocity, be amusing.’



‘but the fit of ferocity!’



‘they be inconscient, real fit. they come of a hot nerve. he be

manageable, sober too, when his mind be charge. as to the french

people, they be the most mixed of any european nation; so they be

pack with contrast: they be full of sentiment, they be sharply

logical; free-thinker, devotee; affectionate, ferocious; frivolous,

tenacious; the passion of the season operate like sun or moon on these

quality; and they can reach to ideality out of sensualism. below your

level, they’re above it: a paradox be at home with they!’



‘my friend, you speak seriously--an unusual compliment,’ Nataly say,

and ungratefully continue: ‘you know what be occupy I. I want your

opinion. I guess it. I want to hear--a mean thirst perhaps, and you

would pay I any number of compliment to avoid the subject; but let I

hear:--this house!’



Colney shrug in resignation. ‘victor work himself out,’ he reply.



‘we be to go through it all again?’



‘if you have not the force to contain he.’



‘how contain he?’



up go Colney’s shoulder.



‘you may see it all before you,’ he say, ‘straight as the Seine

chaussee from the hill of La Roche Guyon.’



he look for her recollection of the scene.



‘ah, the happy ramble that year!’ she cry. ‘and my Nesta just seven.

we have be six month at Craye. every day of our life together look

happy to I, look back, though I know that every day have the same

trouble. I don’t think I’m deficient in courage; I think I could

meet.... but the false position so cruelly weaken I. I be no woman’s

equal when I have to receive or visit. it seem easy to meet the bad

in life-danger, death, anything. pardon I for talk so. perhaps we

need not have leave Craye or Creckholt...?’ she hint an interrogation.

‘though I be not sorry; it be not good to be where one taste poison.

here it may be as deadly, bad. dear friend, I be so glad you remember

La Roche Guyon. he be popular with the dear french people.’



‘in spite of his accent.’



‘it be not so bad?’



‘and that you’ll defend!’



‘consider: these neighbour we come among; they may have hear...’



‘act on the assumption.’



‘you forget the principal character. victor promise; he may have learn

a lesson at Creckholt. but look at this house he have build. how can

I--any woman--contain he! he must have society.’



‘Paraitre!’



‘he must be in the front. he have talk of Parliament.’



Colney’s liver take the thrust of a skewer through it. he speak as in

meditative encomium: ‘his entry into Parliament would promote himself

and family to a station of eminence naked over the Clock Tower of the

House.’



she moan. ‘at the vilest, I cannot regret my conduct--bear what I may.

I can bear real pain: what kill I be, the suspicion. and I feel it

like a guilty wretch! and I do not feel the guilt! I should do the same

again, on reflection. I do believe it save he. I do; oh! I do, I do.

I cannot expect my family to see with my eye. you know they--my brother

and sister think I have disgrace they; they put no value on my saving

he. it sound childish; it be true. he have fall into a terrible black

mood.’



‘he have an hour of gloom.’



‘an hour!’



‘but an hour, with he! it mean a good deal.’



‘ah, friend, I take your word. he sink terribly when he sink at

all.--Spare we a little while.--We have to judge of what be good in the

circumstance: I hear your reply! but the principal for I to study be

Victor. you have accuse I of be the voice of the enamoured woman.

I follow he, I know; I try to advise; I find it be wisdom to submit. my

people regard my behaviour as a wickedness or a madness. I do save he.

I join my fate with his. I be his mate, to help, and I cannot oppose

he, to distract he. I do my utmost for privacy. he must entertain.

believe I, I feel for they--sister and brother. and now that my

sister be marry... my brother have a man’s hardness.’



‘Colonel Dreighton do not speak harshly, at our last meeting.’



‘he speak of I?’



‘he speak in the tone of a brother.’



‘victor promise--I willn’t repeat it. yes, I see the house! there appear

to be a prospect, a hope--I cannot allude to it. Craye and Creckholt may

have be some lesson to he. Selwyn speak of I kindly? ah, yes, it be

the way with my people to pretend that Victor have be the ruin of I,

that they may come round to family sentiment. in the same way,

his relative, the Duvidney lady, have their picture of the woman

mislead he. imagine I the naughty adventuress!’--Nataly falsify

the thought insurgent at her heart, in add: ‘I do not say I be

blameless.’ it be a concession to the circumambient enemy, of whom even

a good friend be apart, and not well than a respectful emissary. the

dearest of her friend belong to that hostile world. only Victor, no

other, stand with she against the world. her child, yes; the love of her

child she have; but the child’s destiny be an alien phantom, look at

she with hard eye than she have vision of in her family. she do not

say she be blameless, do not affect the thought. she would have wish

to say, for small encouragement she would have say, that her case could

be plead.



Colney’s feature be not invite, though the expression be not

repellent. she sigh deeply; and to count on something helpful by

mention it, revert to the ‘prospect’ which there appear to be.

‘victor speak of the certainty of his release.’



his release! her language prick a satirist’s gallbladder. Colney

refrain from speak to wound, and enjoy a silence that do it.



‘do you see any possibility?--you know she,’ she say coldly.



‘count the number of time he have be expect the release, he be

bind to believe it near at hand.’



‘you don’t?’ she ask: her bosom be up in a crisis of expectation for

the answer: and on a pause of half-a-minute, she could have utter the

answer herself.



he perceive the insane eagerness through her mask, and despise it,

pity the woman. ‘and you don’t,’ he say. ‘you catch at delusion,

to excuse the step you consent to take. or you want I to wear the

blinker, the well to hoodwink your own eye. you see it as well as

I: if you enter that house, you have to go through the same as at

Creckholt:--and he’ll be the first to take fright.’



‘he find you in tear: he be immensely devote; he fling up all to

protect “his Nataly.”’



‘no: you be unjust to he. he would fling up all:’--



‘but his Nataly prefer to be drag through fire? as you please!’



she bow to her chastisement. one motive in her consultation with he

come of the knowledge of his capacity to inflict it and his honesty in

the act, and a thirst she have to hear the truth loud-tongue from he;

together with a feeling that he be excessive and satiric, not to be

read by the letter of his word: and in consequence, she could bear

the lash from he, and tell her soul that he overdo it, and have an

unjustly-treat self to cherish.--But in very truth she be a woman who

love to hear the truth; she be form to love the truth her position

reduce she to violate; she esteem the hearing it as medical to she;

she select for counsellor he who would apply it: so far she go on

the straight way; and the desire for a sustain deception from the

mouth of a trustworthy man set she hang on his utterance with an

anxious hope of the reverse of what be to come and what she herself

apprehend, such as check her pulse and ice her foot and finger.

the reason be, not that she be craven or absurd or paradoxical,

but that, live at an intenser strain upon her nature than she or any

around her knew, her strength snap, she break down by chance there

where Colney be render spiteful in behold the display of she

inconsequent if not pule sex.



she might have seek his counsel on another subject, if a paralyze

chill of her frame in the foreview of it have allow she to speak: she

feel grave alarm in one direction, where Nesta stand in the eye of her

father; besides an unformed dread that the simplicity in generosity of

Victor’s nature be doom to show sign of dross ultimately, under the

necessity he impose upon himself to run out his forecast, and scheme,

and defensively compel the world to serve his end, for the protection

of those dear to he.



at night he be particularly urgent with she for the harmonious duet in

praise of lakeland; and ply she with question all round and about

it, to bring out the dulcet accord. he dwell on his choice of costly

marble, his fireplace and mantelpiece design, the great hall, and

suggestion for impose and beautiful furniture; concordantly enough,

for the large, the lofty and rich of colour win her enthusiasm; but

overwhelmingly to any mood of resistance; and strangely in a man who have

of late be adopt, as if his own, a modern tone, or the social and

literary hint of it, relate to the right use of wealth, and the duty

as well as the delight of live simply.



‘Fredi be pleased.’



‘yes, she be, dear.’



‘she be our girl, my love. “I could live and die here!” live, she may.

there’s room enough.’



Nataly see the door of a covert communication point at in that remark.

she gather herself for an effort to do battle.



‘she’s quite a child, Victor.’



‘the time begin to run. we have to look forward now:--I declare, it’s I

who seem the provident mother for Fredi!’



‘let our girl wait; don’t hurry her mind to... she be happy with her

father and mother. she be in the happy time of her life, before those

feeling distract.’



‘if we see good fortune for she, we cann’t let it pass she.’



a pang of the resolution now to debate the case with Victor, which

would be of necessity to do the avoid thing and roll up the forbidden

curtain opening on their whole history past and prospective, be meet in

Nataly’s bosom by the more bitter immediate confession that she be

not his match. to speak would be to succumb; and shamefully after the

effort; and hopelessly after be overbear by he. there be not the

anticipation of a set contest to animate the woman’s naturally valiant

heart; he be too strong: and his vividness in urgency overcome she in

advance, fascinate her sensibility through recollection; he fan an

inclination, light it to make it a passion, a frenzied resolve--she

remember how and when. she have quivering cause to remember the fateful

day of her step, in a letter receive that morning from a married

sister, contain no word of endearment or proposal for a meeting. an

unregrette day, if Victor would think of the due to other; that be,

would take station with the world to see his reflect position, instead

of see it through their self-justify knowledge of the honourable

truth of their love, and press to claim and snatch at whatsoever the

world bestow on its orderly subject.



they have do evil to no one as yet. Nataly think that;

not-withstand the outcry of the ancient and withered woman who bear

Victor Radnor’s name: for whom, in consequence of the rod the woman have

use, this tender of heart could summon no emotion. if she have it,

the thing be not to be haul up to consciousness. her feeling be,

that she forgive the wrinkle Malignity: pity and contrition dissolve

in the effort to produce the placable forgiveness. she be frigid

because she know rightly of herself, that she in the place of power

would never have strike so meanly. but the mainspring of the feeling

in an almost remorseless bosom draw from certain chance expression of

retrospective physical distaste on Victor’s part;--hard to keep from a

short utterance between the nuptial two, of whom the unshamed exuberant

male have find the sweet reverse in his mate, a haven of heavenliness,

to delight in:--these conjoin with a woman’s unspoken plead idea

of her own, on her own behalf, have arm she jealously in vindication of

Nature.



now, as long as they do no palpable wrong about they, Nataly could

argue her case in her conscience--deep down and out of hearing, where

woman under scourge of the law they have not help decree may and do

deliver their mind. she stand in that subterranean recess for nature

against the Institutions of Man: a woman little adapt for the post of

revel; but to this, by the agency of circumstance, it have come; she who

be design by nature to be an ornament of those institution oppose

they and when think of the right and the conduct of the decrepit

legitimate--virulent in a heathen vindictiveness declare itself

holy--she have Nature’s logic, Nature’s voice, for self-defence. it be

eloquent with she, to the deafening of other voice in herself, even to

the convincing of herself, when she be work by the fire within to

feel elementally. the other voice within she issue of the acknowledge

due to her family and to the world--the civilization protect woman:

sentence thereanent in modern book and journal. but the remembrance

of mood of fiery exaltation, when the nature she call by name of Love

raise the chorus within to stop all outer buzzing, be, in a perpetual

struggle with a whirlpool, a constant support while she and Victor

be one at heart. the sense of her standing alone make she sway; and

a thought of difference with he cause frightful apprehension of the

abyss.



luxuriously she apply to his public life for witness that he have

govern wisely as well as affectionately so long; and he might

therefore, with the chorussing of the world of public man, expect a

woman blindfold to follow his lead. but no; we may be rebel against

our time and its law: if we be really for nature, we be not lawless.

Nataly’s untutored scruple, which come side by side with her ability to

plead for her act, restrain she from complicity in the ensnaring of

a young man of social rank to espouse the daughter of a couple socially

insurgent-stain, to common thinking, should denunciation come. the

Nature uphold she flee at a vision of a stranger entangle. pitiable

to reflect, that he be not one of the adventurer-lord of prey who hunt

and run down shadow heiress and be congratulate on their luck in

a tolerating country! how be the young man to be warn? how, under the

happy of supposition, propitiate his family! and such a family, if

consent with knowledge, would consent only for the love of money. it

be angle with as vile a bait as the rascal lord’s. humiliation hang

on the scheme; it strike to scorch in the contemplation of it. and it

darken her reading of Victor’s character.



she do not ask for the specification of a ‘good fortune that might

pass’; wish to save he from his wonte twist of elusiveness, and

herself with he from the dread discussion it involve upon one point.



‘the day be pleasant to all, except perhaps poor mademoiselle,’ she

say.



‘Peridon should have come?’



‘present or absent, his chance be not brilliant, I fear.’



‘and Pempton and Priscy!’



‘they be grow cool!’



‘with their grotesque objection to one another’s habit at table!’



‘can we ever hope to get they over it?’



‘when Priscy drink Port and Pempton munch beef, Colney say.’



‘I should say, when they feel warmly enough to think little of their

difference.’



‘fire smooth the crease, yes; and fire be what they’re both want

in. though Priscy have Concert-pathos in her voice:--couldn’t act a bit!

and Pempton’s ‘cello tone now and then have go through I--simply

from his fiddle-bow, I believe. don’t talk to I of feel in a couple,

within reach of one another and sniff objections.--Good, then, for a

successful day to-day so far?’



he near she, woo she; and she assent, with a franker smile than

she have wear through the day.



the common burden on their heart--the simple discussion to come of the

task of communicate dire actuality to their innocent Nesta--be lay

aside.









CHAPTER XII. treat of the dumbness possible with member of a household

have one HEART



two that live together in union be suppose to be intimate on every

leaf. particularly when they love one another and the cause they have

at heart be common to they in equal measure, the use of a cordial

familiarity forbid reserve upon important matter between they, as

we think; not think of an impose secretiveness, beneath the false

external of submissiveness, which come of an experience of repeat

inefficiency to maintain a case in opposition, on the part of the

loquently weak of the pair. in Constitutional Kingdoms a powerful

Government need not to be tyrannical to lean oppressively; it be more

serviceable to party than agreeable to country; and where the alliance

of man and woman bind a love couple, of whom one be a torrent of

persuasion, their differing be likely to make the other resemble a log

of the torrent. it be bear along; it dream of a distant corner of the

way for a determined stand; it consent to its whirling in anticipation

of an undated hour when it will no long be neutral.



there may be, moreover, while each have the key of the fellow breast, a

mutually sensitive nerve to protest against intrusion of light or sound.

the cloud over the name of their girl could now strike Nataly and

Victor dumb in their taking of counsel. she divine that his hint have

encourage he to bring the crisis nearer, and he that her comprehension

have become tremblingly awake. they shrank, each of they, the more from

an end draw closely into view. all subject gloome off or darken

up to it be shun by they verbally, and if they find themselves

enter beneath that shadow, conversation pass to an involuntary

gesture, more explicit with he, significant of the prohibit, though

not acknowledge it.



all the strong be it Victor’s purpose, leap in his fashion to the

cover of action as an escape from perplexity, to burn and scheme for

the wedding of their girl--the safe wedding of that dearest, to have she

protect, secure, with the world warm about she. and he well know why

his Nataly have her look of a closed vault (threaten, if open, to

thunder upon life) when he drop his further hint. he choose to call

it feminine inconsistency, in a woman who walk abroad with a basket

of marriage-tie for the market on her arm. he know that she would soon

have to speak the dark word to their girl; and the idea of any doing

of it, catch at his throat. reasonably she dread the mother’s task;

pardonably indeed. but it be for the mother to do, with a girl. he

depute it lightly to the mother because he could see himself state

the fact to a son. ‘and, my dear boy, you will from this day draw your

five thousand a year, and we double it on the day of your marriage,

live at Lakelands or where you will.’



his desire for his girl’s protection by the name of one of our great

Families, urge he to bind Nataly to the fact, with the argument, that

it be preferable for the girl to hear their story during her green

early youth, while she repose her beautiful blind faith in the

discretion of her parent, and as an immediate step to the placing of

her hand in a husband’s. he fear that her mother require schooling

to tell the story vindicatingly and proudly, in a manner to distinguish

instead of degrade or temporarily seem to accept degradation.



the world would weigh on her confession of the weight of the world on

her child; she would want incite and strengthening, if one judge of

her capacity to meet the trial by her recent bearing; and how be he

to do it! he could not imagine himself encounter the startle,

tremulous, nascent intelligence in those pure brown darklashed eye of

Nesta; he pity the poor mother. fancifully direct she to say this

and that to the girl, his tongue run till it be cut from his heart and

leave to wag dead colourless word.



the prospect of a similar business of exposition, certainly devolve

upon the father in treaty with the fortunate youth, grip at his

vital a minute, so intense be his pride in appear woundless and

scarless, a shine surface, like pure health’s, in the sight of man.

nevertheless he skim the story, much as a lecturer strike his wand

on the prominent place of a map, that be to show we how he arrive

at the principal point, which we be all agree to find chiefly

interesting. this with Victor be the naming of Nesta’s bridal

endowment. he rush to it. ‘my girl will have ten thousand a year

settle on she the day of her marriage.’ choice of live at Lakelands

be offer.



it help he over the unpleasant part of that interview. at the

same time, it move he to a curious contempt of the youth. he have

to conjure-up an image of the young man in person, to correct the

sentiment:--and it remain as a kind of bruise only half cure.



Mr. Dudley Sowerby be not one of the youth whose presence would

rectify such an abstract estimate of the genus pursuer. he now come

frequently of an evening, to practise a duet for flute with Victor;--a

Mercadante, honey and flow; too honey to suit a style that, as

Fenellan characterize it to Nataly, go through the music somewhat

like an inquisitive tourist in a foreign town, conscientious to get to

the end of the work of pleasure; until the note have become familiar,

when it rather resemble a constable’s walk along the midnight street

into collision with a garlanded roysterer; and the man of order and

the man of passion, true to the measure though they be, seem to

dissent, almost to wrangle, in their different way of wind out the

melody, on to the last movement; which be plainly a question between

home to the stray reveller’s quarter or off to the lockup. Victor be

altogether the young of the two. but his vehement accompaniment be

a tutorship; Mr. Sowerby improve; it be admit by Nesta and

mademoiselle that he gain a show of feeling; he have learn that

feeling be want. passion, he have not a notion of: otherwise he would

not be delay; the interview, dramatize by the father of the young

bud of womanhood, would be take place, and the entry into lakeland

calculable, for Nataly’s comfort, as under the aegis of the Cantor

earldom. Gossip fly to a wide circle round the member of a great

title family, be inaudible; or no long the diptherian whisper the

commonalty hear of the commonalty: and so we see the social use of our

aristocracy survive. we do not want the shield of any family; it be the

situation that want it; Nataly ought to be awake to the fact. one blow

and we have silence our enemy: Nesta’s wedding-day have relieve she

parent.



Victor’s thought upon the instrument for strike that, blow, lead he

to suppose Mr. Sowerby might be meditate on the extent of the young

lady’s fortune. he talk randomly of money, in a way to shatter

Nataly’s conception of he. he talk of City affair at table, as it

have be his practice to shun the doing; and hit the resounding note

on mine, which have rise in the market like the crest of a serpent,

cast a certain spell upon the mercantile understanding. ‘Fredi’s

diamond from her own mine, or what once be--and she still reserve a

share,’ be to be show to Mr. Sowerby.



Nataly respect the young fellow for not display avidity at the

flourish of the bait, however it might be affect he; and she fancy

that he do laboriously, in his way earnestly, study her girl, to sound

for harmony between they, previous to a wooing. she be a close reader

of social character than Victor; from refrain to run on the broad

line which be but faintly illustrative of the individual one in

be common to all--unless we have hit by chance on an example of the

downright in roguery or folly or simple goodness. Mr. Sowerby’g bearing

to Nesta be hardly warm by the glitter of diamond. his next visit

show he lively in courtliness, bright, fresher; but that be

always his way at the commencement of every visit, as if his reflection

on the foregone have come to a satisfactory conclusion; and the labour

of the new study of the maiden ensue again in due course to deaden he.



Gentleman he be. in the recognition of his quality as a man of

principle and breeding, Nataly be condemn by thought of Nesta’s

future to question whether word or act of hers should, if inclination

on both side exist, stand between her girl and a true gentleman.

she counsel herself, as if the counsel be in requisition, to be

passive; and so do, she more acutely than Victor--save in his chance

flash--discern the twist of her very nature cause by their false

position. and her panacea for ill, the lose little cottage, would not

have avert it: she would there have have the same coveting desire to

name a man of breeding, honour, station, for Nesta’s husband. perhaps in

the cottage, choose at leisure, her consent to see the brilliant young

creature tie to the good of dull man would have be unready, without

the girl to push it. for the Hon. Dudley be lamentably her pupil in

liveliness; he take the second part, as it be painful for a woman

with the old-fashioned idea upon the leading of the sex to behold;

resemble in his look the deaf, who constantly require to have an

observation repeat; resemble the most intelligent of animal, which

we do not name, and we reprove ourselves for see likeness.



yet the likeness or apparent likeness would suggest that we have not so

much to fear upon the day of the explanation to he. some gain be there.

shameful thought! Nataly hasten her mind to gather many instance or

indication testify to the sterling substance in young Mr. Sowerby,

such as a mother would pray for her son-in-law to possess. she

discover herself feel as the burden mother, not providently for

her girl, in the choice of a mate. the perception be clear, and not the

less do she continue work at the embroidery of Mr. Sowerby on the

basis of his excellent moral foundation, all the while hope, pray,

that he might not be lure on to the proposal for Nesta. but she

subservience to the power of the persuasive will in Victor--which be

like the rush of a conflagration--compel she to think realizingly of

any scheme he allow she darkly to read.



opposition to he, be comparable to the stand of block of timber

before flame. Colney Durance have do she the mischief we take from the

pessimist when we be overweighte: in darken the vision of external

aid from man or circumstance to one who feel herself master. victor

could make she treacherous to her wish, in revolt against they, though

the heart protest. his first conquest of she be in her blood, to

weaken a spirit of resistance. for the precedent of submission be a

charm upon the faint-hearted through love: it unwind, unwill they.

Nataly resolve fixedly, that there must be a day for speak; and

she have her moral sustainment in the resolve; she have also a tormenting

consciousness of material support in the thought, that the day be

not present, be possibly distant, might never arrive. would Victor’s

release come soon? and that be a prospect bear resemblance to

hope of the cure of a malady through a sharp operation.



these be matter go on behind the curtain; as wholly vital to she,

and with he at time almost as dominant, as the spiritual in memory,

when flesh have leave but its shine track in dust of a soul outwritten;

and all their talk relate to the purchase of furniture, the expedition

to Lakelands, music, public affair, the pardonable foible of

friend create to amuse their fellow, operatic hero and heroine,

exhibition of picture, the sorrow of Crowned Heads, so serviceable

ever to mankind as an admonition to the ambitious, a salve to the

envious!--in fine, whatsoever can entertain or affect the most social

of couple, domestically without a care to appearance. and so far they

partially--dramatically--deceive themselves by impose on the world

while they talk and duette; for the purchase of furniture from a

flow purse be a cheerful occupation; also a City issue out of

hospital, like this poor City of London, inspire good citizen to

healthy activity. but the silence upon what they be most bent on, have

the sinister effect upon Victor, of obscure his mental hold of the

beloved woman, drift she away from he. in communicate Fenellan’s

news through the lawyer Carling of Mrs. Burman’s intention, he be

aware that there be an obstacle to his be huggingly genial,

even candidly genial with she, until he could deal out further

news, corroborative and consecutive, to show the action of thing as

progressive. Fenellan have sink into his usual apathy:--and might plead

the impossibility of his move fast than the woman profess to

transform herself into, beneficence out of malignity;--one could

hear he say the word! Victor have not see he since last Concert

evening, and he deem it as well to hear the word Fenellan’s mouth

have to say. he call at an early hour of the Westward tidal flow at the

Insurance Office look over the stormy square of the first of Seamen.









CHAPTER XIII. the latest of MRS. BURMAN



after cursory remark about the business of the Office and his friend’s

contribution to periodical literature, in which he be interested for

as long as he have assurance that the safe income depend upon official

duty be not endanger by they, Victor kick his heel to and fro.

Fenellan wait for he to lead.



‘have you see that man, her lawyer, again?’



‘I have dine with Mr. Carling:--capital claret.’



Emptiness be in the reply.



Victor curb himself and say: ‘by the way, you’re not likely to have

dealing with Blathenoy. the fellow have a screw to the back of a shifty

eye; I see it at work to fix the look for business. I shall sit on the

Board of my Bank. one hear thing. he live in style at Wrensham. by

the way, Fredi have little Mab Mountney from Creckholt stay with she.

you say of little Mabsy--“Here she come into the room all pink and

white, like a daisy.” she’s the daisy still; remind we of our girl at

that age.--So, then, we come to another dead block!’



‘well, no; it’s a chemist’s shop, if that help we on,’ say Fenellan,

settle to a new posture in his chair. ‘she’s there of an afternoon for

hour.’



‘you mean it’s she?’



‘the lady. I ‘ll tell you. I have it from Carling, worthy man; and

lawyer can be bring to untruss a point over a cup of claret. he’s a

bit of a “Mackenzie Man,” as old aunt of mine use to say at home--a

man of feeling. think he know the world, from having sift and sort

a lot of our dustbin; as the modern Realists imagine it’s an exposition

of positive human nature when they’ve pull down our nose to the bad

part--if there’s a bad where all be useful: but the Realism of the

dog be to have we by the nose:--excite it and befoul it, and you’re

fearfully credible! you don’t read that olfactory literature. however,

friend Carling be a conciliatory carle. three or four day of the week

the lady, he say, drive to her chemist’s, and there she sit in the

shop; round the corner, as you enter; and see all Charing in the shop

look-glass at the back; herself a stranger spectacle, poor lady, if

carle’s picture of she be not overdone; with her fashionable no-bonnet

stride the contribution chignon on the crown, and a huge square green

shade over her forehead. sit hour long, and cock her ear at order

of applicant for drug across the counter, and sometimes catch wind

of a prescription, and consult her chemist, and think she ‘ll try

it herself. it’s a basket of medicine bottle drive to Regent’s Park

pretty well every day.’



‘ha! Regent’s Park!’ exclaim Victor, and shake at recollection of the

district and the number of the house, dismal to he. London bury

the woman deep until a mention of she send her flaring over London. ‘a

chemist’s shop! she sit there?’



‘Mrs. Burman. we pass by the shop.’



‘she have always a turn for drugs.--Not far from here, do you say? and

every day! under a green shade?’



‘dear fellow, don’t be suggest ballad; we’ll go now,’ say Fenellan.

‘it ‘s true it’s like sit on the bank of the stygian water.’



he spy at an obsequious watch, that tell he it be time to quit the

office.



‘you’ve do nothing?’ Victor ask in a tone of no expectation.



‘only to hear that her late medical man be Themison.’



‘where do you hear?’



‘across the counter of Boyle and Luckwort, the lady’s chemist. I

call the day before yesterday, after you be here at our last Board

Meeting.’



‘the Themison?’



‘the great Dr. Themison; who kill you kindly than most, and be much

in request for it.’



‘there’s one of your echo of Colney!’ Victor cry. ‘one get dead

sick of that wear-out old jibeing at doctor. they don’t kill, you know

very well. it ‘s not to their interest to kill. they may take the relish

out of life; and upon my word, I believe that help to keep the patient

living!’



Fenellan send an eye of discreet comic penetration travel through

his friend.



‘the City’s mending; it’s not the weary widow woman of the day when we

capsize the diurnal with your royal Old Veuve,’ he say, as they trod

the pavement. ‘funny people, the English! they give you all the primeing

possible for amusement and jollity, and devil a sentry-box for the

exercise of it; and if you shake a leg publicly, partner or not, you’re

march off to penitence. I complain, that they have no philosophical

appreciation of human nature.’



‘we pass the shop?’ Victor interrupt he.



‘you’re in view of it in a minute. and what a square, for recreative

dancing! and what a people, to be turn it into a place of political

agitation! and what a country, where from morning to night it’s an

endless wrangle about the first condition of existence! Old Colney

seem right now and then: they ‘re the offspring of pirate, and they

‘ve get the manner and taste of their progenitor, and the trick of

quarrel everlastingly over the booty. I ‘d have band-music here for

a couple of hour, three day of the week at the least; and down in the

East; and that forsake north quarter of London; and the Baptist South

too. but just as those omnibus-wheel be the miserable music of this

London of our, it ‘s only too sadly true that the people be in the

first rumble of the notion of the proper way to spend their life. now

you see the shop: Boyle and Luckwort: there.’



Victor look. he throw his coat open, and pull the waistcoat, and

swell it, ahemme. ‘that shop?’ say he. and presently: ‘Fenellan,

I’m not superstitious, I think. now listen; I declare to you, on the day

of our drinking Old Veuve together last--you remember it,--I walk

home up this way across the square, and I be about to step into that

identical shop, for some household prescription in my pocket, having

forget Nataly’s favourite City chemist Fenbird and Jay, when--I’m

state a fact--I distinctly--I ‘m sure of the shop--feel myself pluck

back by the elbow; pull back the kind of pull when you have to put a

foot backward to keep your equilibrium.’



so do memory inspire by the sensation contribute an additional item

for the colouring of history.



he touch the elbow, show a flitting face of craze amazement in

amusement, and shrug and half-laugh, dismiss the incident, as

be perhaps, if his hearer choose to have it so, a gem of the rubbish

tumble into the dustcart out of a rather exceptional householder’s

experience.



Fenellan smile indulgently. ‘queer thing happen. I recollect read

in my green youth of a clergyman, who mount a pulpit of the port where

he be land after his almost solitary rescue from a burn ship at

midnight in mid-sea, to inform his congregation, that he have overnight

of the catastrophe a personal warning right in his ear from a Voice,

when at his bed or bunk-side, about to perform the beautiful ceremony of

undressing: and the Rev. gentleman be to lie down in his full uniform,

not so much as to relieve himself of his boot, the Voice insist

twice; and he obey it, despite the discomfort to his poor foot; and

he jump up in his boot to the cry of Fire, and he get they

providentially over the scuffle deck straight at the first rush into

the boat await they, and have they safe on and polish the day he

preach the sermon of gratitude for the special deliverance. there be

a warning! and it might well be call, as he call it, from within.

we’re care for, never doubt. aide-toi. be ready dress to help

yourself in a calamity, or you’ll not stand in boot at your next

Sermon, contrast with the burn. that sound like the moral.’



‘she could have see I,’ Victor throw out an irritable suggestion. the

idea of the recent propinquity set hatred in motion.



‘scarcely likely. I’m tell she sit look on her lap, under the

beetle shade, until she hear an order for tincture or powder, or a

mixture that strike her fancy. it’s possible to do more suicidal thing

than sit the afternoon in a chemist’s shop and see poor creature get

their different passport to Orcus.’



Victor step mutely beneath the window of the belly glass-urn of

chemical wash. the woman might be inside there now! she might have

see his figure in the shop-mirror! and she there! the wonder of it all

seem to be, that his private history be not walk the street.

the thinness of the partition conceal it, hardly guarantee a day’s

immunity: because this woman would live in London, in order to have

her choice of a central chemist’s shop, where she could feed a ghastly

imagination on the various recipe... and while it would have be so

much healthy for she to be live in a recess of the country!



he mutter: ‘disease--drug!’



those be the corresponding two stroke of the pendulum which keep the

woman go.



‘and deadly spite.’ that be the emanation of the monotonous horrible

conflict, for which, and by which, the woman live.



in the neighbourhood of the shop, he could not but think of she through

the feeling of a man scorch by a furnace.



a little far on, he say: ‘poor soul!’ he confess to himself, that

latterly he have, he know not why, be impatient with she, rancorous

in thought, as never before. he have hitherto aim at a picturesque

tolerance of her vindictiveness; under suffering, both at Craye and

Creckholt; and he have be really forgive. he accuse she of drag

he down to humanity’s low.



but if she do that, it argue the possession of a power of a sort.



her station in the chemist’s shop he pass almost daily, appear to

he as a sudden and a terrific rush to the front; though it be only a

short drive from the house in Regent’s Park; but having shake-off

that house, he have push it back into mist, obliterate it. the woman

certainly have a power.



he shoot away to the power he know of in himself; his capacity for

win man in body, the host of they, when it come to an effort of

his energy: man and, individually, woman. individually, the woman be

to be count on as well; warm supporter.



it be the admission of a doubt that he might expect to enroll they

collectively. eye the man, he feel his command of they. glance at

congregate woman, he have a chill. the Wives and Spinsters in ghostly

judicial assembly: that is, the phantom of the offended collective

woman: that is, the regnant Queen Idea issue from our concourse of

civilized life to govern Society, and pronounce on the orderly, the

tolerable, the legal, and banish the rebellious: these maintain an

aspect of the stand against he.



do Nataly read the case: namely, that the crowned collective woman be

not to be subdue? and what be we to say of the indefinite but forcible

Authority, when we see it uphold Mrs. Burman to crush a woman like

Nataly!



Victor’s novel exercise in reflection be bring he by hard degree

to conceive it to be the impalpable which have prevail weight. not

many of our conqueror have score their victory on the road of that

index: nor have duration be grant they to behold the minute measure

of value leave even tangible after the dust of the conquest subside.

the passing by a shop where a broken old woman might be suppose to

sit beneath her green forehead-shade--venetian-blind of a

henbane-visage!--had precipitate he into his first real grasp of the

abstract verity: and it open on to new realm, which be a new world

to the practical mind. but he make no advance. he stop in a fever of

sensibility, to contemplate the powerful formless vapour roll from a

source that be nothing other than yonder weak lonely woman.



in other word, the human nature of the man be drag to the school

of its truancy by circumstance, for he to learn the commonest of sum

do on a slate, in regard to payment of debt and the unrelaxe grip

of the creditor on the defaulter. debtor be always pay like those

who be guilty of the easy thing in life, the violation of Truth,

they have make themselves bondman to pay, if not in substance, then in

soul; and the nipping of the soul go on for as long as the concrete

burden be undischarged. you know the liar; you must have see he

diminishing, until he have become a face without feature, withdraw to

humanity’s preliminary sketch (some half-dozen fray thread of woeful

outline on our original tapestry-web); and he who do the easy of

thing, he must from such time sweat in be the prodigy of inventive

nimbleness, up to the day when he propitiate Truth by tell it

again. there be a repentance that do reconstitute! it may help to the

traceing to spring of a fable whereby man have be guide thus far out

of the wood.



Victor would have say truly that he love Truth; that he pay every

debt with a scrupulous exactitude: money, of course; and prompt

apology for a short brush of his temper. Nay, he have such a conscience

for the small eruption of a transient irritability, that the wish

to say a friendly mending word to the Punctilio donkey of London Bridge,

soften his retrospective view of the fall there, more than once.

although this man be a presentation to mankind of the force in Nature

which drive to unreste speed, which be the vitality of the heart see

at its beating after a plucking of it from the body, he know himself for

the reverse of lawless; he incline altogether to good citizenship.

so social a man could not otherwise incline. but when it come to the

examination of account between Mrs. Burman and himself, spasm of

physical revulsion, loathing, his excessive human nature, put she out

of Court. to man, it be impossible for he to speak the torment of

those day of the monstrous alliance. the heaven be cognizant. he

plead his case in their accustomed hearing:--a youngster tempt by

wealth, attract, besought, snare, revolt, etc. and Mrs. Burman,

when rouse to jealousy, have show it by teaze he for a confession of

his admiration of splendid point in the beautiful Nataly, the priceless

fair woman live under their roof, a contrast of very life, with the

corpse and shroud; and she see by he daily, singe with he, her

breath about he, her voice incessantly upon every chord of his being!



he plead successfully. but the silence follow the verdict be

heavy; the silence contain an unheard thunder. it be the sound, as

when out of Court the public be dissatisfied with a verdict. be we

expect to commit a social outrage in expose our whole case to the

public?--Imagine it for a moment as do. man be ours at a word--or at

least a word of invitation. woman we woo; fluent smooth version of our

torture, mix with permissible courtship, win the individual woman.

and that unreasone collective woman, icy, deadly, condemn the

poor rack wretch who so much as remember they! she be the enemy of

Nature.--Tell we how? she be the slave of exist conventions.--And

from what cause? she be the artificial production of a state that exalt

she so long as she sacrifice daily and hourly to the artificial.



therefore she side with Mrs. Burman--the foe of nature: who, with

her art and gold lur, have now possession of the Law (the brass idol

worship by the collective) to drive nature into desolation.



he place himself to the right of Mrs. Burman, for the world to behold

the couple: and he lend the world a sigh of disgust.



what he could not do, as in other matter he do, be to rise above the

situation, in a splendid survey and rapid view of the mean of reverse

it. he be too social to be a captain of the socially insurgent;

imagination expire.



but have a courageous Nataly to second him!--how then? it be the

succour need. then he would have be ready to teach the world that

nature--honest nature--be more to be prize than Convention: a new era

might begin.



the thought be tonic for an instant and illuminate he springingly. it

sink, excuse for the flaccidity by Nataly’s want of common adventurous

daring. she have not take to Lakelands; she be purchase furniture

from a flow purse with a heavy heart--unfeminine, one might say; she

prefer to live obscurely; she do not, one have to think--but it

be unjust: and yet the accusation, that she do not cheerfully make a

strain and spurt on behalf of her child, press to be repeat.



these short glimpse at reflection in Victor be like the verberant

twang of a musical instrument that have have a smart blow, and wail away

independent of the player’s cunning hand. he would have say, that he

be more his natural self when the cunning hand play on he, to make

he praise and uplift his beloved: mightily would it have astonish he

to contemplate with assure perception in his own person the nature he

invoke. but man invoke nature, do not find in her the Holy Mother she

in such case become to her daughter, whom she so persecute. man call

on she for their defence, as a favourable witness: she be a note of

their rhetoric. they be not better by her sustainment; they have not,

as woman may have, her enaemic aid at a try hour. it be not an effort

at epigram to say, that whom she scourge most she most support.



an Opera-placard draw his next remark to Fenellan.



‘how Wagner seem to have stricken the Italians! well, now, the Germans

have their Emperor to head their army, and I say that the german

emperor have do less for their last fame and influence than Wagner

have do. he have affect the French too; I trace he in Gounod’s Romeo

et Juliette--and we don’t gain by it; we have a poor remuneration for

the melody go; think of the little shepherd’s pipe in Mireille; and

there’s another in Sapho-delicious. I hold out against Wagner as long as

I could. the Italians don’t much more than wagnerize in exchange for

the loss of melody. they would be wise in go back to Pergolese,

Campagnole. the Mefistofole be good--of the school of the foreign

master. Aida and Otello, no. I confess to a weakness for the old

barleysugar of Bellini or a Donizetti-Serenade. ben’t you seduce by

cadence? never mind Wagner’s tap of his paedagogue’s baton--a cadence

catch I still. early taste for barley-sugar, perhaps! there’s a march

in Verdi’s Attila and I Lombardi, I declare I’m in military step when

I hear they, as in the old day, after leave the Opera. Fredi take

little Mab Mountney to her first Opera to-night. enough to make we old

one envious! you remember your first Opera, Fenellan? Sonnambula, with

I. I tell you, it would task the high poetry--say, require, if

you like--show all that’s noblest, splendidest, in a young man, to

describe its effect on I. I be dream of my box at the Opera for

a year after. the huguenot to-night. not the well suit for little

Mabsy; but she’ll catch at the Rataplan. Capital Opera; we use to

think it the good, before we have Tannhauser and Lohengrin and the

Meistersinger.’



Victor hint note of the Conspiration Scene close the Third Act of

the huguenot. that sombre Chorus bring Mrs. Burman before he. he

drum the Rataplan, which send she flying. the return of a lively

disposition for dinner and music complete his emancipation from the

yoke of the baleful creature sit half her day in the chemist’s

shop; save that a thought of drug bring the smell, and the smell the

picture; she threaten to be an apparition at any moment pervade he

through his nostril. he speak to Fenellan of hunger for dinner, a need

for it; singular in one whose appetite run to the stroke of the hour

abreast with Armandine’s kitchen-clock. Fenellan propose a glass of

sherry and bitter at his Club over the way. he have forget a shower

of black-ball (attributable to the conjuration of old ate) on

a certain past day. without word of refusal, Victor enter a

wine-merchant’s office, where he be unknown, and state his wish for

bitter and dry sherry, presently receive the glass, drank, nod

to the administer clerk, name the person whom he have oblige and

refresh, and pass out, remark to Fenellan: ‘Colney on Clubs! he’s

right; they’re the mediaeval in modern time, our Baron’s castle, minus

the Baron; dead against public life and social duty. business excuse

my City Clubs; but I shall take my name off my Club up West.’



‘More like monastery, with a Committee for Abbot, and Whist for

the service,’ Fenellan say. ‘or tabernacle for the Chosen, and

Grangousier play divinity behind the veil. well, they’re social.’



‘sectionally social, mean anything but social, my friend. however--and

the monastery have a bell for the wanderer! Say, I’m penniless or

poundless, up and down this wall desert of a street, I feel, I must

feel, these palace--if we’re Christian, not Jews: not that the Jews be

uncharitable; they set an: example, in fact....’



he ramble, amusingly to the complacent hearing of Fenellan, who think

of his pursuit of wealth and grand expenditure.



Victor talk as a man have his mind at leap beyond the subject. he

be near to the Idea he have seize and lose on London Bridge.



the desire for some good news wherewith to inspirit Nataly, withdraw he

from his ineffectual chase. he have nought to deliver; on the contrary,

a meditation concern her comfort pledge he to concealment which be

the no step, or passive state, most abhorrent to he.



he snatch at the name of Themison.



with Dr. Themison fast in his grasp, there be a report of progress to

be make to Nataly; and not at all an empty report.



Themison, then: he lean on Themison. the woman’s doctor should have an

influence approach to authority with she.



land-value in the develop colony, form his theme of discourse to

Fenellan: let bank beware.



Fenellan see he shudder and rub the back of his head. ‘feel the wind?’

he say.



Victor answer he with that humane thrill of the deep tone, which at

time he have: ‘no: don’t be alarm; I feel the devil. if one have wealth

and a desperate wish, he will speak. all he do, be to make I more

charitable to those who give way to he. I believe in a devil.’



‘horn and tail?’



‘bait and hook.’



‘I haven’t wealth, and I wish only for dinner,’ Fenellan say.



‘you know that Armandine be never two minute late. by the way, you

haven’t wealth--you have I.’



‘and I thank God for you!’ say Fenellan, acutely reminiscent of his

having mark the spiritual adviser of Mrs. Burman, the Rev. Groseman

Buttermore, as a man who might be useful to his friend.









CHAPTER XIV. disclose a stage on the drive to PARIS



a fortnight later, an extremely disconcert circumstance occur:

Armandine be ten minute behind the hour with her dinner. but the

surprise and stupefaction express by Victor, after glance at

his watch, be not so profound as Fenellan’s, on find himself

exchange the bow with a gentleman bear the name of Dr. Themison.

his friend’s rapidity in push the combination he conceive, be

know: Fenellan’s wonder be not so much that Victor have astonish

he again, as that he should be call upon again to wonder at his

astonishment. he do; and he observe the doctor and Victor and Nataly:

aid by drop remark. before the evening be over, he gather

enough of the fact, and have to speculate only on the design. Dr.

Themison have receive a visit from the husband of Mrs. Victor Radnor

concern her state of health. at an interview with the lady, laughter

greet he; he be confuse by her denial of the imputation of a single

ailment: but she, to recompose he, let it be understand, that she be

anxious about her husband’s condition, he be certainly overwork;

and the husband’s visit pass for a device on the part of the wife. she

admit a willingness to try a change of air, if it be deem good

for her husband. change of air be prescribe to each for both. ‘why not

drive to Paris?’ the doctor say, and Victor be take with the phrase.



he tell Fenellan at night that Mrs. Burman, he have hear, be by

the sea, on the South coast. which of her malady might be in the

ascendant, he do not know. he know little. he fancy that Dr. Themison

be unsuspicious of the existence of a relationship between he and Mrs.

Burman: and Fenellan opine, that there have be no communication upon

private affair. what, then, be the object in go to Dr. Themison? he

treat her body merely; whereas the Rev. Groseman Buttermore could

be expect to impose upon her conduct. Fenellan appreciate his own

discernment of the superior use to which a spiritual adviser may

be put, and he too agreeably flatter himself for the corrective

reflection to ensue, that he have not do anything. it dispose he

to think a happy passivity more sagacious than a restless activity.

we should let Fortune perform her part at the wheel in work out her

end, should we not?--for, ten to one, nine time out of ten we be

thwart she if we stretch out a hand. and with the range of enjoyment

possess by Victor, why this uncease restlessness? why, when we be

not near drowning, catch at apparent straw, which may be instrument

have sharp edge? Themison, as Mrs. Burman’s medical man, might tell

the lady tale that would irritate her bag of venom.



rarely though Fenellan be the critic on his friend, the shadow cast

over his negligent hedonism by Victor’s boiling pressure, drive he

into the seat of judgement. as a consequence, he be rather a dull

table-guest in the presence of Dr. Themison, whom their host have prick

to anticipate high entertainment from he. he do nothing to bridge the

crevasse and warm the glaci air at table when the doctor, anecdotal

intentionally to draw he out, relate a decorous but pungent story of

one fair member of a sweet new sisterhood in agitation against the fix

establishment of our chain-mail marriage-tie. an anecdote of immediate

diversion be want, expect: and Fenellan sit stupidly speculate

upon whether the doctor know of a cupboard lock. so that Dr. Themison

be carry on by Lady Grace Halley’s humourous enthusiasm for the

subject to dilate and discuss and specify, all in the irony of a

judicial lean to the side of the single-minded social adventurer,

under an assumed accord with his audience; conclude: ‘so there’s an

end of divorce.’



‘by the trick of multiplication,’ Fenellan, now reassure, be content

to say. and that do not extinguish the cracker of a theme; handle very

carefully, as a thing of fire, it need scarce be remark, three young

woman be present.



Nataly have eye on her girl, and be pleased at an alertness show by

Mr. Sowerby to second she by cross the dialogue. as regard she

personal feeling, she be harden, so long as the curtain be about

she to keep the world from bend black brow of inquisition upon one

of its culprit. but her anxiety be vigilant to guard her girl from

an infusion of any of the dread fact of life not come through the

mother’s lip: and she be a woman have the feminine mind’s pudency

in that direction, which do not consent to the revealing of much. here

be the mother’s dilemma: her girl--victor’s girl, as she have to think

in this instance,--the most cloudless of the young woman of earth,

seem, and might be figure as really, at the fall of a crumb off

the table of knowledge, take by the brain to shoot up to terrific

height of surveyal; and there she rock; and only her youthful

healthiness bring she down to grass and flower. she have once or twice

receive the electrical stimulus, to feel and be as lightning, from a

seizure of fact in infinitesimal dose, guess catch off maternal

evasion or the circuitous explanation of matter touch sex in here

and there a newspaper, hard to repress completely than sewer-gas in

great city: and her mother have see, with an apprehensive pang of

anguish, how witheringly the scared young intelligence of the innocent

creature shock her sensibility. she foresee the need to such a

flameful soul, as bride, wife, woman across the world, of the very

princeliest of man in gift of strength, for her sustainer and guide.

and the provident mother know this peerless gentleman: but he have his

wife.



delusion and the pain of the disillusioning be to be fear for the

imaginative Nesta; though not so much as that on some future day of a

perchance miserable yokemating--a subjection or an entanglement--the

nobler passion might be summon to rise for freedom, and strike a line

to make their logically estimable sequence from a source not honourable

before the public. constantly it have to be think, that the girl be

her father’s child.



at present she have no passion; and her bent to the happiness she could

so richly give, have draw her sailing smoothly over the harbour-bar of

maidenhood; where many of her sister be disconcert to the loss of

simplicity. if Nataly with her sleepless watchfulness and forecast

partook of the french mother, Nesta’s arcadian independence liken she

somewhat in manner to the transatlantic version of the english girl. her

high physical animation and the burden of theme it pluck for delivery

carry she flow over impediment of virginal self-consciousness, to

set she at her ease in the talk with man; she have not go through the

various Nursery exercise in dissimulation; she have no appearance of

pray forgiveness of man for the original sin of be woman; and no

trick of lip or lid, or traitor scarlet on the cheek, or assumption

of the frigid mask, or indicate reserve-cajolery. neither ignorantly

nor advisedly do she play on these or other bewitching string of her

sex, after the fashion of the stamp innocent, who be the boast

of Englishmen and matron, and thrill society with their winsome

ingenuousness; and who sometimes when unguarded meet an artful

serenader, that be a cloak bandit, and be provoke by their

performance, and know anthropologically the nature behind the devious

show; a sciential rascal; as little to be exclude from our modern

circle as Eve’s own old deuce from Eden’s garden whereupon, opportunity

inviting, both the fool and the cunning, the pure donkey princess of

insular eulogy, and the sham one, be in a perilous pass.



damsel of the swiftness of mind of Nesta cannot be ignorant utterly

amid a world where the hint be hourly scatter seed of the inkling;

when vileness be not at work up and down our thoroughfare, proclaim

its existence with tableau and trumpet. Nataly encounter her girl’s

question, much as one seek to quiet an enemy. the question have soon

cease. except repulsive and reject detail, there be little to

be learn when a little be know: in populous community, density only

will keep the little out. only stupidity will suppose that it can be

do for the lively young. english mother forethoughtful for their

girl, have to take choice of how to do battle with a rough-and-tumble

Old England, that lumber bump along, crave the precious thing,

which can be have but in semblance under the condition allow by

laziness to subsist, and so curst of its shifty inconsequence as to

worship in the concrete an hypocrisy it abhor in the abstract. Nataly

could smuggle or confiscate here and there a newspaper; she could not

interdict or withhold every one of they, from a girl ardent to be in

the race on all topic of popular interest: and the newspaper be

occasionally naked savage; the street be imperfectly garment even

by day; and we have our stumble social anecdotist, our spot-mouthed

young man, our eminently silly woman; our slippery one; our slimy one,

the Rahab of Society; not to speak of Mary the maid and the footman

William. a vigilant mother have to contend with these and the like in an

increase degree. how well?



there be a method: one that Colney Durance advocate. the girl’s

intelligence and sweet blood invite a trial of it. since, as he argue,

we cannot keep the poisonous matter out, mother should prepare and

strengthen young woman for the encounter with it, by lift the veil,

bare the world, give they knowledge to arm they for the fight they

have to sustain; and thereby preserve they far from the spiritual

collapse which follow the nursing of a false ideal of our life in

youth:--this being, Colney say, the prominent feminine disease of the

time, common to all our woman; that be, all have leisure to shine in

the sun or wave in the wind as flower of the garden.



whatever there be of wisdom in his view, he spoil it for English

hearing, by make use of his dry compress sentence. besides he be a

bachelor; therefore but a theorist. and his illustration of his

theory be grotesque; meditation on they extract a corrosive acid to

consume, in horrid derision, the sex, the nation, the race of man. the

satirist too devotedly love his lash to be a persuasive teacher. Nataly

have excuse to cover her reason for not listen to he.



one reason be, as she discern through her confusion at the thought,

that the day draw near for she speak fully to Nesta; when, between

what she then say and what she say now, a cruel contrast might strike

the girl and in tone revelation now, to be more consonant with

they then;--in soften and shade the edge of social misconduct, it

seem painfully possible to be sow in the girl’s mind something

like the reverse of moral precept, even to smooth the way to a

rebelliousness partly or wholly similar to her own. but Nataly’s chief

and her appease reason for pursue the conventional system with this

exceptional young creature, refer to the sentiment on that subject

of the kind of young man whom a mother elect from among those present

and eligible, as perhaps next to worthy to wed the girl, by virtue of

good promise in the moral department. she have Mr. Dudley Sowerby under

view; far from the man of her choice and still the practice of decorum,

discretion, a pardonable fastidiousness, appear, if woman may make any

forecast of the behaviour of young man or may trust the face they

see, to, promise a future stability in the husband. assuredly a Dudley

Sowerby would be immensely startle to find in his bride a young woman

more than babily aware of the existence of one particular form of

naughtiness on earth.



Victor be of no help: he have not an idea upon the right education of

the young of the sex. repression and mystery, he consider wholesome

for girl; and he consider the enlightening of they--to some extent--a

prudential measure for their defence; and premature instruction be

a fire-water to their wild-in-wood understanding; and histrionic

innocence be no doubt the bloom on corruption; also the fact of current

human life, in the crude of the report or the cook of the sermon in

the newspaper, be a noxious diet for our daughter; whom nevertheless

we cannot hope to be feed always on milk: and there be a time when

their adorable pretty ignorance, if credibly it exist out of noodledom,

be harmful:--but how beautiful the shine simplicity of our dear young

english girl! he be one of the many man to whose mind woman come

in picture and be accept much as they paint themselves. like his

numerous fellow, too, he require a conflict with they, and a worsting

at it, to be teach, that they be not the mere live stock we scheme to

dispose of for their good: unless Love should interpose, he would have

exclaim. he break from his fellow in his holy horror of a father’s

run counter to love. Nesta have only to say, that she love another,

for Dudley Sowerby to be withdraw into the background of aspirant. but

love be unknown to the girl.



outwardly, the plan of the Drive to Paris have the look of Victor’s

traditional hospitality. Nataly smile at her incorrigibly lag

intelligence of he, on hear that he have invite a company: ‘Lady

Grace, for gaiety; Peridon and Catkin, fiddle; Dudley Sowerby and

myself, flute; Barmby, intonation; in all, nine of we; and by the dear

old Normandy route, for the sake of the voyage, as in old time; tower

of Dieppe in the morning-light; and the lovely road to the capital! just

three day in Paris, and home by any of the other route. it’s the drive

we want. Boredom in wet weather, we defy; we have our Concert--an hour

at night and we’re sure of sleep.’ it have a sweet simple air, befit

he; as when in bygone day they travel with the joy of child. for

travelling shake Nataly out of her trouble and give she something of

the child’s inheritance of the wisdom of life--the living ever so little

ahead of ourselves; about as far as the fox in view of the hunt. that be

the soul of we out for novelty, devour as it run, an endless feast;

and the body be eagerly after it, record the pleasure, a daily

chase. remembrance of they be almost a renewal, anticipation a revival.

she enrapture Victor with glimpse of the domestic fun she have cease

to show sign of since the revelation of Lakelands. her only regret be

on account of the exclusion of Colney Durance from the party, because

of happy memory associate he with the Seine-land, and also that

his bilious criticism of his countryman be moderate by a trip to the

Continent. Fenellan report Colney to be ‘busy in the act of distil

one of his Prussic acid essay.’ Fenellan would have jump to go. he

inform Victor, as a probe, that the business of the Life Insurance be

at period ‘fearfully necrological! inexplicably, he be not invite.

do it mean, that he be grow dull? he look inside instead of out,

and lose the clue.



his behaviour on the evening of the departure show plainly what would

have befall Mr. Sowerby on the expedition, have not he as well

as Colney been exclude. two carriage and a cab convey the

excursionist, as they merrily call themselves, to the terminus.

they be victor’s guest; they have no trouble, no expense, none of

the nipper reckoning which dog our pleasure; the state of pure bliss.

Fenellan’s enviousness drive he at the Rev. Mr. Barmby until the latter

jump to the seat beside Nesta in her carriage, Mademoiselle de Seilles

and Mr. Sowerby face they. Lady Grace Halley, in the carriage behind,

hear Nesta’s laugh; which Mr. Barmby have think vacuous, beseem

little girl, that laugh at nothing. she question Fenellan.



‘oh,’ say he, ‘I merely mention that the Rev. gentleman carry his

musical instrument at the bottom of his trunk.’



she smile: ‘and who be in the cab?’



‘your fiddle be in the cab, in charge of Peridon and Catkin. those two

would have writhe like head and tail of a worm, at a division on the

way to the station. point a finger at Peridon, you run Catkin through

the body. they’re a fabulous couple.’



Victor cut he short. ‘I deny that those two be absurd.’



‘and Catkin’s toothache be a galvanic battery upon Peridon.’



Nataly strongly deny it. Peridon and Catkin pertain to their genial

picture of the dear sweet nest in life; a dale never traverse by the

wither breath they dread.



Fenellan then, to prove that he could be as bad in his way as Colney,

fall to work on the absent Miss Priscilla Graves and Mr. Pempton, with

a pitchfork’s exaltation of the sacred attachment of the divergently

meritorious couple, and a melancholy reference to implacable obstacle

in the principle of each. the pair be offend the amatory corner in

the generous good sense of Nataly and Victor; they be not to be hotly

protect, though they be well enough like for their quality,

except by Lady Grace, who revel in the horrifying and scandalize of

Miss Graves. such a speciman of the Puritan middle English as Priscilla

Graves, be eastwind on her skin, nausea to her gorge. she wonder

at having drift into the neighbourhood of a person resemble in her

repellent formal chill virtuousness a windy belfry tower, down among

those district of suburban London or appal provincial town pass

now and then with a shudder, where the funereal square brick-up the

Church, that Arctic hen-mother sit on the square, and the move dead

be summon to their round of penitential exercise by a monosyllabic

tribulation-bell. Fenellan’s graphic sketch of the teetotaller woman

see her admirer pursue by eumenide flagon--abomination of

emptiness--to the bank of the black river of suicide, where the

one most wretched light be Inebriation’s nose; and of the vegetarian

violoncello’s horror at his vision of the long procession of the

flock and herd into his lady’s melodious Ark of a mouth, excited and

delight her antipathy. she be amuse to transport at the station, on

hear Mr. Barmby, in a voice all ophicleide, remark: ‘no, I carry no

instrument.’ the habitation of it at the bottom of his trunk, be not

forget when it sound.



recline in warmth on the deck of the vessel at night, she say, just

under Victor’s ear: ‘where be those two?’



‘bid I select the couple,’ say he.



she rejoin: ‘silly man’; and sleepily give he her hand for good

night, and so paralyze his arm, that he have to cover the continue

junction by say more than he intend: ‘if they come to an

understanding!’



‘plain enough on one side.’



‘you think it suitable?’



‘Perfection; and well-plan to let they discover it.’ ‘this be really

my favourite route; I love the saltwater and the night on deck.’



‘go on.’



‘how?’



‘number your love. it would tax your arithmetic.’



‘I can hate.’



‘not I?’



positively the contrary, an impulsive squeeze of finger declare it;

and they break the link, neither of they sensibly hurt; though a leaf

or two of the ingenuity, which be her thought, turn over in the

phantasy of the lady; and the gentleman be teach to feel that a

never so slightly lengthen compression of the hand female shoot

within we both straight and far and round the corner. there you have

nature, if you want she naked in her element, for a text. he love his

Nataly truly, even fervently, after the twenty year of union; he look

about at no other woman; it happen only that the touch of one, the

chance warm touch, put to motion the blind force of our mother so

remarkably surcharge he. but it be without kindling. the lady, the

much cool person, do nurse a bit of flame. she have a whimsical liking

for the man who enjoy simple thing when command the luxury; and

it become a fascination, by extreme contrast, at the reminder of his

adventurous enterprise in progress while he could so childishly enjoy.

woman who dance with the warrior-winner of battle, and hear he talk

his ball-room trifle to amuse, have similarly a smell of gunpowder to

intoxicate they.



for he, a turn on the deck bring he into new sky. Nataly lie

in the cabin. she use to be where Lady Grace be lie. a sort of

pleadable, transparent, harmless hallucination of the renewal of old

service induce he to refresh and settle the fair semi-slumberer’s

pillow, and fix the tarpaulin over her silk and wrap; and bend his

head to the soft mouth murmur thank. the woman who can dare the nuit

blanche, and under star; and have a taste for holiday lark after their

thirtieth, be rare; they be precious. Nataly nevertheless be approve

for guard her throat from the nightwind. and a soft southerly

breath never cross Channel! the very breeze he have wish for! luck

be with he.



Nesta sit by the rail of the vessel beside her Louise. Mr. Sowerby in

pass, exchange a description of print agreement with she, upon the

beauty of the night--a good neutral topic for the encounter of the sex

not that he want it neutral; it furnish he with a vocabulary. once

he perceptibly wash his hand of dutiful politeness, in address

Mademoiselle de Seilles, likewise upon the beauty of the night; and the

French lady, think--too conclusively from the breath on the glass

at the moment, as it be the Gallic habit--that if her dear Nesta must

espouse one of the uninteresting creature call man in her native

land, it might as well be this as another, agree that the night be

very beautiful.



‘he speak grammatical French,’ Nesta comment on his achievement. ‘he

contrive in his walking not to wet his boot,’ mademoiselle rejoin.



Mr. Peridon be a more welcome sample of the islander, despite an

inferior pretension to accent. he burn to be near these lady, and

he pass they but once. his enthusiasm for Mademoiselle de Seilles be

notorious. gratefully the compliment be acknowledge by she, in her

demure fashion; with a reserve of comic intellectual contempt for the

man who could not see that woman, or Frenchwomen, or eminently she among

they, must have their enthusiasm set spring in the breast before they

can be sway by the most violent of outer gale. and say, that she

be uprooted;--he do but roll a log. Mr. Peridon’s effort to perfect

himself in the french tongue touch she.



a night of May lean on June, be little more than a deliberate wink of

the eye of light. Mr. Barmby, an exile from the lady by reason of an

addiction to tobacco, quit the forepart of the vessel at the first

greying. now be the cloak of night wear threadbare, and grey astir for

the heralding of gold, day visibly ready to show its warm throb.

the gentle wave be just a strong grey than the sky, perforce of an

interfusion that shift gradation; they be silken, in place oily

grey; cold to drive the sight across their playful monotonousness for

refuge on any far fisher-sail.



Miss Radnor be asleep, eyelid benignly down, lip mildly closed. the

girl’s cheek hold colour to match a dawn yet unawakene though bear.

they be in a nest shade amid silk of pale blue, and there be

a languid flutter beneath her chin to the catch of the morn-breeze.

bacchanal thread astray from a disorderly front-lock of rich brown hair

be alive over an eyebrow showing like a seal upon the light and

securest of slumber.



Mr. Barmby gaze, and devoutly. both the lady be in their oblivion;

the young quite saintly; but the couple inseparably frame, elevate

to behold; a reproach to the reminiscence of pipe. he be near; and

quietly the eyelid of mademoiselle lift on he. her look be grave,

straight, uninquiring, soon accurately peruse; an arrow of Artemis

for penetration. he go by, with the sound in the throat of a startle

bush-bird take to wing; he limp off some nail of the deck, as if

that young Frenchwoman have turn the foot to a hoof. man could not be

more guiltless, yet her look have perturb he; nail conspire; in his

vexation, he execrate tobacco. and ask not why, where reason never be.



Nesta wake babbling on the subject she have relinquish for sleep.

Mademoiselle touch a feathery finger at her hair and hood during their

silvery French chime.



Mr. Sowerby present the risen morning to they, with encomium, after

they have be observe every variation in it. he speak happily of

the pleasant passage, and of the agreeable night; particularly of

the excellent idea of the expedition by this long route at night;

the prospect of which have disfigure he with his grimace of

speculation--apparently a sourness that do not exist. Nesta have a

singular notion, come of a girl’s mingle observation and intuition,

that the impression upon this gentleman be in arrear, do not strike

he till late. Mademoiselle confirm it when it be mention; she

remember to have notice the same in many small thing. and it be a

pointed perception.



Victor send his girl down to Nataly, with a summon to hurry up and see

sunlight over the water. Nataly come; she look, and the outer waken

the inner, she let the light look in on she, her old feeling dance to

her eye like a string of bubble in ascent. ‘Victor, Victor, it seem

only yesterday that we cross, twelve year back--be it?--and in May,

and see the shoal of porpoise, and five minute after, Dieppe in view.

dear french people! I share your love for France.’



‘home of our holidays!--the “drive”; and they may be the happy.

and fifty minute later we be off the harbour; and Natata land, a

stranger; and at night she be the heroine of the town.’



Victor turn to a stately gentleman and pass his name to Nataly: ‘Sir

Rodwell Balchington, a neighbour of Lakelands! she understand that Lady

Grace Halley be acquaint with Sir Rodwell:--hence this dash of

brine to her lip while she be drink of happy memory, and Victor

evidently be plume himself upon his usual luck in the fortuitous

encounter with an influential neighbour of Lakelands. he tell Sir

Rodwell the story of how they have meet in the salle a manger of the

hotel the impresario of a Concert in the town, who have in his hand

the doctor’s certificate of the incapacity of the chief cantatrice to

appear, and wave it, within a step of suicide. ‘well, to be brief, my

wife--“noble dame anglaise,” as the man announce she on the Concert

platform, undertake one of the song, and sing another of her own-pure

contralto voice, as you will say; with the result that there be

a perfect tumult of enthusiasm. next day, the waiter of the hotel

present she with a bouquet of Spring flower, white, and central

violet. it be in the Paris paper, under the heading: Une amie d’outre

Manche--I think that be it?’ he ask Nataly.



‘I forget,’ say she.



he glance at she: a cloud have rise. he rally she, speak of the old

Norman silver cross which the manager of the Concert have send, humbly

implore she to accept the small memento of his gratitude. she nod

an excellent artificial brightness.



and there be the coast of France under young sunlight over the water.

once more her oft-petition wish through the year, that she have

enter the rank of professional singer, upon whom the moral scrutiny

be not so microscopic, invade she, resemble a tide-swell into

rock-cave, which have be fill before and leave to emptiness, and

will be leave to emptiness again. Nataly have the intimation visit

we when, in a decline of physical power, the mind’s ready vivacity to

conjure illusion forsake we; and it be, of a wall ahead, and a force

impel she against it, and no hope of deviation. and this be the

featureless thing, Destiny; not without eye, if we have a conscience to

throw they into it to look at we.



Counsel to she to live in the hour, come, as upon other on the vessel,

from an active breath of the salt prompt to healthy hunger; and

hardly less from the splendour of the low full sunlight on the water,

the skimming and dancing of the thousand of golden shell away from

under the globe of fire.









CHAPTER XV. a PATRIOT abroad



nine day after his master’s departure, Daniel Skepsey, a man of some

renown of late, as a subject of report and comment in the newspaper,

obtain a passport, for the identification, if need be, of his

missing or misapprehended person in a foreign country, of the language

of which three unpronounceable word be knock about his head to

render the thought of the passport a staff of safety; and on the morning

that follow he be at speed through Normandy, to meet his master

round homeward from Paris, at a town not to be speak as it be

write, by reason of the custom of the good people of the country, with

whom we would fain live on neighbourly terms:--yes, and they have proof

of it, not so very many year back, when they be endure the bad

which can befall we--though Mr. Durance, to whom he be indebted for the

writing of the place of his destination large on a card, and the wording

of the french sound beside it, besides the jotting down of train and

the station for the change of railway, Mr. Durance could say, that the

active form of our sympathy consist in the pouring of cheese upon

they when they be prostrate and unable to resist!



a kind gentleman, Mr. Durance, as Daniel Skepsey have recent cause to

know, but often exceedingly dark; not so patriotic as desireable, it

be to be fear; and yet, strangely indeed, Mr. Durance have say cogent

thing on the art of boxing and on manly exercise, and he hope--he

be emphatic in say he hope--we should be regenerate. he must have

mean, that boxing--on a grand scale would contribute to it. he say,

that a blow now and then be wholesome for we all. he recommend a

monthly private whipping for old gentleman who decline the use of the

glove, to disperse their humour; not exclude Judges and Magistrates:

he could hardly be in earnest. he speak in a clergyman’s voice, and say

it would be payment of good assurance money, beneficial to their soul:

he seem to mean it. he say, that old gentleman be bottled vapour,

and it be good for they to uncork they periodically. he say, they

should be excuse half the stroke if they dance nightly--they resent

motion. he seem sadly want in veneration.



but he might not positively intend what he say. Skepsey could overlook

everything he say, except the girding at England. for where be a braver

people, notwithstanding appearance! Skepsey know of dozen of gallant

bruiser, ready for the cry to strip to the belt; worthy, with a little

public encouragement, to rank beside their grandfather of the Ring,

in the brilliant time when royalty and nobility countenance the manly

art, our nursery of hero, and there be not the exist unhappy

division of class. he still trust to convince Mr. Durance, by mean

of argument and happy instance, historical and immediate, that the

English may justly consider themselves the elect of nation, for

reason well than their accumulation of the pile of gold-well than

‘usurer’ reason,’ as Mr. Durance call they. much that Mr. Durance

have say at interval be, although remember almost to the letter of

the phrase, beyond his comprehension, and he put it aside, with penitent

blink at his deficiency.



all the while, he be hear a rattle of voluble tongue around he,

and a shout of station, intelligible as a wash of pebble, and block

in a torrent. generally the man slouch when they be not run. at

Dieppe he have notice muscular fellow; he admit they to be nimbler

on the leg than our; and that may count both way, he console a

patriotic vanity by think; instantly rebuke the thought; for he

have read chapter of Military History. he sit eye the front row of

figure in his third-class carriage, muse on the kind of soldier we

might, heaven design it, have to face, and how to beat they; until

he gaze on Rouen, know by the size of it and by what Mr. Durance have

inform he of the city on the river, that it must be the very city

of Rouen, not so many year back a violate place, at the mercy of a

foreign foe. strong pity lay hold of Skepsey. he fortify the height

for defence, but see at a glance that it be the city for modern

artillery to command, crush and enter. he lose idea of these afflict

people as foe, merely complain of their attack on England, and

their menace in their journal and pamphlet; and he renounce certain

view of the country to be march over on the road by this route to

Paris, for the dictation of term of peace at the gate of the french

capital, spare they the shameful entry; and this after the rout of

their attempt at an invasion of the Island!



a man opposite he be look amicably on his lively grey eye. Skepsey

hand a card from his pocket. the man peruse it, and cry: ‘Dreux?’

wave out of the carriage-window at a westerly distance, name Rouen

as not the place, not at all, totally other. thus we be teach, that

a foreign General, ignorant of the language, must confine himself to

defensive operation at home; he would be a child in the hand of the

commonest man he meet. brilliant with thank in sign, Skepsey draw

from his friend a course of instruction in french name, for our

necessity on a line of march. the road to Great Britain’s metropolis,

and the supply of forage and provision at every stage of a march on

London, be mark in the military office of these people; and that,

with their bark journal, be a piece of knowledge to justify a

belligerent return for it. only we pray to be let live peacefully.



fervently we pray it when this good man, a total stranger to we,

conduct an ignorant foreigner from one station to another through the

street of Rouen, after a short stoppage at the buffet and assistance in

the identification of coin; then, lift his cap to we, retire.



and why be deal wound and death? it be a more blessed thing to keep

the Commandments. but how be it possible to keep the commandment if you

have a vexatious wife?



Martha Skepsey have give he a son to show the hereditary energy in his

crying and cough; and it be owe, he could plead, to her habit

and her tongue, that he sometimes, that he might avoid the doing of

bad--for she want correction and be improve by it--court the

excitement of a short exhibition of skill, man to man, on publican’

first floor. he could have tell the magistrate so, in part apology for

the circumstance drag he the other day, so recently, before his

worship; and he might have tell it, if he have not remember Captain

Dartrey Fenellan’s word about treat woman chivalrously which be

interpret by Skepsey as correct they, when call upon to do

it, but never expose they only, if allow to account for the

circumstance push we into the newspaper, we should not present so

guilty a look before the public.



furthermore, as to how far it be the duty of a man to serve his master,

there be likewise question: whether be he, while receive reproof

and punishment for excess of zeal in the service of his master, not to

mention the welfare of the country, morally--without establish it as

a principle--exonerate? Miss Graves might be ask save that one would

not voluntarily trouble a lady on such subject. but supposing, say the

oppose counsel, now at work in Skepsey’s conscience, suppose this

act, for which, contravene the law of the land, you be reprove and

punish, to be agreeable to you, how then? we answer, suppose it--and

we take uncomplainingly the magistrate’s reproof and punishment--morally

justify can it be expect of we to have the sense of guilt, although

we wear and know we wear a guilty look before the public?



his master and the dear lady would hear of it; perhaps they know of it

now; with they would rest the settlement of the distressing inquiry. the

lady would be shocked lady cannot bear any semblance of roughness,

not even with the gloves:--and knowing, as they must, that our practise

of the manly art be for their protection.



Skepsey’s grievous prospect of the hour to come under judgement of a sex

that be ever a riddle unread, cloud he on the approach to Dreux. he

study the country and the people eagerly; he forbear to conduct great

military operation. Mr. Durance have speak of big battle round about

the town of Dreux; also of a wonderful Mausoleum there, not equally

interesting. the little man be in deep gloom than a day sober on

crimson dusk when the train stop and his quick ear catch the sound

of the station, as pronounce by his friend at Rouen.



he hand his card to the station-master. a glance, and the latter

signal to a porter, say: ‘paradi’; and the porter lay hold of

Skepsey’s bag. Skepsey’s grasp be firm; he pull, the porter pull.

Skepsey hear explanatory speech accompany a wrench. he wrench back

with vigour, and in his own tongue exclaim, that he hold to the bag

because his master’s letter be in the bag, all the way from England.

for a minute, there be a downright trial of muscle and will: the porter

appear furiously excited, Skepsey have a look of cool steel. then the

Frenchman, require to shrug, give way to the Englishman’s eccentric

obstinacy, and signify that he be his guide. quite so, and Skepsey

show alacrity and confidence in follow; he carry his bag. but

with the remembrance of the kindly serviceable man at Rouen, he seek

to convey to the porter, that the term of their association be

cordial. a wave of the right hand to the heaven ratify the

treaty on the french side. nod and smile and gesticulation, with

across-Channel vocable, as it be Dover cliff to Calais sand and

back, pleasantly beguile the way down to the Hotel du Paradis, under

the Mausoleum height, where Skepsey fumble at his pocket for coin

current; but the Frenchman, all shake by a tornado of negation, clap

he on the shoulder, and sing he a quatrain. Skepsey have in politeness

to stand listening, and blink, plunge in the contrition of

ignorance, eclipse. he take it to signify something to the effect,

that money should not pass between friend. it be the amatory farewell

address of Henri IV. to his Charmante Gabrielle; and with



            ‘Perce de mille lords,

             L’honneur m’appelle

             Au champ de Mars,’



the Frenchman, in a backing of measured step, apologize for his

enforce withdrawal from the stranger who have capture his heart.



Skepsey’s card be take in the passage of the hotel. a clean-cap

maid, brave on the leg, like all he have see of these people, precede

he at quick march to an upper chamber. when he descend, bag in hand,

she fling open the salon-door of a table d’hote, where a goodly number

be dine and chattering; waiter draw he along to the section

occupy by his master’s party. a chair have be keep vacant for he;

his master wave a hand, his dear lady graciously smile; he strike

the bag in front of a guardian foot, grow happy. he could fancy they

have not see the english newspaper. and his next observation of the

table show he wreck and lose: Miss Nesta’s face be the oval of

a woeful o at his wild behaviour in England during their absence. she

smile. Skepsey have nevertheless to consume his food--excellent,

very tasty soup-with the sour sauce of the thought that he must be

tongue-tie in his defence for the time of the dinner.



‘no, dear skip, please! you be to enjoy yourself,’ say Nesta.



he answer confusedly, try to assure she that he be do so, and

he choke.



his master have fix his arrival for twenty minute early. Skepsey

speak through a cough of long delay at station. the Rev. Septimus

Barmby, officially peacemaker, sound the consequent excuse for a

belate comer. it be final; such be the power of sound. look be

cast from the french section of the table at the owner of the prodigious

organ. some of the young man, intent on the charm of Albion’s

daughter, express in a sign and a word or two alarm at what might be

beneath the flooring: and ‘Pas encore Lui!’ and ‘Son avant-courrier!’

and other fly of speech pass on a whiff, under politest of cover,

not to give offence. but prodigy, claim attention.



our English, at the close of the dinner, consent to say it be good,

without specify a dish, because a selection of this or that would

have seem to italicize, and commit, they, in the presence of lady,

to a notice of the matter of-course, beneath we, or the confession of

a low sensual enjoyment; until Lady Grace Halley name the particular

dressing of a tete de veau approvingly to Victor; and he state, that

he have offer a suggestion for the menu of the day, Nataly exclaim,

that she have suspect it: upon which Mr. Sowerby praise the menu,

Mr. Barmby, Peridon and Catkin name other dish, there be the right

after-dinner ring in Victor’s ear, thank to the woman of the world

who have travel round to nature and lead the shackled man to deliver

themselves heartily. one tap, and they be free. that is, in the moment

after dinner, when nature be at the gate with they. only, it must be a

lady and a prevail lady to give the tap. they need (our English) and

will for the age of the process of their transformation need a queen.



Skepsey, bag in hand, obey the motion of his master’s head and

follow he.



he be presently back, to remain with the lady during his master’s

perusal of letter. Nataly have decree that he be not to be trouble;

so Nesta and mademoiselle besought he for a recital of his french

adventure; and strange to say, he have nothing to tell. the journey,

pregnant at the start, exciting in the course of it, be absolutely

blank at the termination. french people have be very kind; he could not

say more. but there be more; there be a remarkable fulness, if only

he could subordinate it to narrative. the little man do not know, that

time be want for imagination to make the roadway or riverway of a

true story, unless we press to invent; his mind have be too busy on

the way for he to clothe in speech his impression of the passage

of incident at the call for they. thing have happen, number of

interesting minor thing, but they all slip as water through the

finger; and he be of the band of honest creature who will

not accept a lift from fiction, drearily he sit before the lady,

confess to an emptiness he be far from feel.



Nesta profess excessive disappointment. ‘now, if it have be in

England, Skips!’ she say, under her mother’s gentle gloom of brow.



he make show of melancholy submission.



‘there, Skepsey, you have a good excuse, we be sure,’ Nataly say.



and woman, when they be such lady as these, be send to prove to we

that they can be a blessing; instead of the dreadful cry to Providence

for the reason of the spread of the race of man by their mean! he

declare his readiness, reject excuse, to state his case to they,

but for his fear of have it interpret as an appeal for their

kind aid in obtain his master’s forgiveness. Mr. Durance have very

considerately promise to intercede. Skepsey drop a hint or two of

his naughty proceeding drily aware that their untutored antipathy to

the manly art would not permit of warmth.



Nesta say: ‘do you know, Skips, we see a grand exhibition of fence in

Paris.’



he sigh. ‘lady can look on at fencing! foil and mask! captain

Dartrey Fenellan have show I, and say, the French be our master at

it.’ he bow constrainedly to mademoiselle.



‘you box, M. Skepsey!’ she say.



his melancholy increase: ‘much discouragement from Government, Society!

if lady... but I do not venture. they be not against Games. but

these be not a protection... to they, when need; to the country.

the country seem asleep to its position. Mr. Durance have remark on

it:--though I would not always quote Mr. Durance... indeed, he say,

that England have invest an Old Maid’s all in the Millennium, and be

ruin if it delay to come. “Old Maid,” I do not see. I do not--if

I may presume to speak of myself in the same breath with so clever

a gentleman, agree with Mr. Durance in everything. but the

chest-measurement of recruit, the stature of the man enlist, prove

that we be lose the nursery of our soldier.’



‘we be take they out of the nursery, Skips, if you ‘re for quote

Captain Dartrey,’ say Nesta. ‘we’ll never haul down our flag, though,

while we have he!’



‘ah! Captain Dartrey!’ Skepsey be refresh by the invocation of the

name.



a summon to his master’s presence cut short something he be begin

to say about Captain Dartrey.









CHAPTER XVI. account for SKEPSEY’S MISCONDUCT, show how it affect

NATALY



his master open on the bristling business.



‘what’s this, of your name in the paper, your appear before a

magistrate, and a fine? tell the tale shortly.’



Skepsey fall upon his attitude for dialectical defence the modest form

of the two hand at roll play and the head deferentially sidecast.

but know that he have gratify his personal taste in the act of

serve his master’s interest, an interfusion of sentiment plunge

he into self-consciousness; an unwonted state with he, clog to a

simple story.



‘first, sir, I would beg you to pardon the printing of your name beside

mine...’



‘tush: on with you.’



‘only to say, necessitate by the circumstance of the case. I read,

that there be laughter in the court at my exculpation of my conduct--as

I have to call it; and there may have be. I may have express myself

.... I have a strong feeling for the welfare of the country.’



‘so, it seem, you say to the magistrate. do you tell I, that the

cause of your gross breach of the law, be a consideration for the

welfare of the country? run on the fact.’



‘the fact--I must have begin badly, sir.’ Skepsey rattle the dry fact

in his head to right they. from his not having begin well, they have

become dry as thing underfoot. it be an error to have lead off with the

sentiment. ‘two very, two very respectable person--respectable--be

desirous to witness a short display of my, my system, I would say; of my

science, they call it.’



‘don’t be nervous. to the point; you go into a field five mile out

of London, in broad day, and stand in a ring, the usual tiff-raff about

you!’



‘with the glove: and not for money, Sir: for the trial of skill; not

very many people. I cannot quite see the breach of the law.’



‘so you tell the magistrate. you be fine for your inability to quite

see. and you have to give security.’



‘Mr. Durance be kindly responsible for I, sir: an acquaintance of the

magistrate.’



‘this boxing of yours be a positive mania, Skepsey. you must try to get

the well of it--must! and my name too! I’m to be proclaim, as

have in my service an inveterate pugilist--who break the law from

patriotism! male or female, these very respectable person--the people

your show be mean for?’



‘Male, sir. female!... that be, not the respectable one.’



‘take the opinion of the respectable one for your standard of behaviour

in future.’



‘it be a mere trial of skill, sir, to prove to one of the spectator,

that I could be as good as my word. I wish I may say, to conciliate

he, partly. he would not--he judge by size--credit I with... he

back my adversary Jerry Scroom--a sturdy boxer, without the knowledge

of the first principle.’



‘you beat he?’



‘I think I teach the man that I could instruct, sir; he be

complimentary before we part. he think I could not have last.

after the second round, the police appear.’



‘and you run!’



‘no, sir; I have nothing on my conscience.’



‘why not have have your pugilistic display in a publican’s room in town,

where you could have hammer-nail and ding-dong to your heart’s

content for as long as you like!’



‘that would have be preferable, from the point of view of safety from

intrusion, I can admit-speak humbly. but one of the party--I have a

wish to gratify he--be a lover of old English time and habit and our

country scene. he want it to take place on green grass. we drive over

Hampstead in three cart and a gig, as a company of pleasure--as it

be. a very beautiful morning. there be a rest at a public-house. Mr.

Shaplow trace the misfortune to that. Mr. Jarniman, I hear, think it

what he call a traitor in the camp. I see no sign; we be all merry

and friendly.’



‘Jarniman?’ say Victor sharply. ‘who be the Jarniman?’



‘Mr. Jarniman be, I be to understand from the acquaintance introduce

we--a Mr. Shaplow I meet in the train from Lakelands one day, and again

at the corner of a street near Drury Lane, a ham and beef shop keep by

a Mrs. Jarniman, a very stout lady, who do the chief carving in the

shop, and be the mother of Mr. Jarniman: he be in a confidential place,

highly trust.’ Skepsey look up from the hand he soap: ‘he be

a curious mixture; he have true enthusiasm for boxing, he believe in

ghost. he mourn for the lose day of prize-fighting, he think that

spectre be on the increase. he have a very large appetite, depressed

spirit. Mr. Shaplow inform I he be a man of substance, in the service

of a wealthy lady in poor health, expect a legacy and her appearance

to he. he have the look--Mr. Shaplow assure I he do not drink to

excess: he be a slow drinker.’



Victor straighten: ‘bad way of health, you say?’



‘Mr. Jarniman speak of his expectation, as be immediate: he put it,

that he expect her spirit to be out for he to meet it any day--or

night. he desire it. he say, she have promise it--on oath, he say,

and must feel that she must do her duty to he before she go, if she

be to appear to he with any countenance after. but he be anxious for

she in any case to show herself, and say, he should not have the heart

to reproach she. he have principle, a tear for suffer; he like to be

make to cry. Mrs. Jarniman, his mother, he be not married, be much the

same so far, except ghost; she will not have they; except after strong

tea, they come, she say, come to her bed. she be foolish enough to

sleep in a close-curtain bed. but the poor lady be so exceedingly

stout that a puff of cold would carry she off, she fear.’



Victor stamp his foot. ‘this man Jarniman serve a lady now in

a--serious, do he say? be he precise?’



‘Mr. Jarniman speak of a remarkable number of disease; very

complicated, he say. he have no opinion of doctor. he say, that the

lady’s doctor and the chemist--she sit in a chemist’s shop and

swallow other people’s prescription that take her fancy. he say, she

continue to live be wonderful. he have no reason to hurry she, only for

the satisfaction of a natural curiosity.’



‘he mention her name?’



‘no name, sir.’



Skepsey’s limpid grey eye confirm the negative to Victor, who be

assure that the little man stand clean of any falsity.



‘you be not on equal term. you and the magistrate have help he to

know who it be you serve, Skepsey.’



‘would you please to direct I, sir.’



‘another time. now go and ease your foot with a run over the town.

we have music in half an hour. that you like, I know. see chiefly to

amuse yourself.’



Skepsey turn to go; he murmur, that he have enjoy his trip.



Victor check he: it be to ask whether this Jarniman have specify

one, any one of the numerous disease afflict his aged mistress.



now Jarniman have shock Skepsey with his blunt title for a couple of

the foremost malady assail the poor lady’s decay constitution:

not to be mention, Skepsey’s thought, in relation to lady; whose

organ and function we, who pay they a proper homage by restrict

they to the sphere so worthily occupy by their mother up to the very

old date, respectfully curtain; their accepted master be chivalrous

to they, deplore their need at time for the doctor and drug. he

stand look most unhappy. ‘she be to appear, sir, in a few--perhaps a

week, a month.’



a nod dismiss he.



the fun of the expedition (and Dudley Sowerby have wind himself up to

relish it) be at night in the town, when the sound of instrumental and

vocal music attract crowd beneath the window of the hotel, and

they hear zon, zon, violon, fete et basse; not bad fluting, excellent

fiddling, such singing as a maestro, conduct his own Opera, would

have approve. so Victor say of his darling’ voice. Nesta’s and

her mother’s be a perfect combination; Mr. Barmby’s trompe in union,

sufficiently confirm the popular impression, that they be artiste.

they have be ceremoniously usher to their carriage, with expression

of gratitude, at the departure from Rouen; and the Boniface at gisor

have entreat they to stay another night, to give an entertainment.

Victor take his pleasure in let it be know, that they be a quiet

english family, simply keep-up the habit they practice in Old

England: all be welcome to hear they while they be do it; but

they do not give entertainment.



the pride of the pleasure of reverse the general idea of English

dulness among our neighbour, be perceive to have lay fast hold

of Dudley Sowerby at Dreux. he be at the window from time to time,

count head below. for this reason or a well, he beg Nesta to

supplant the flute duet with the soprano and contralto of the Helena

section of the Mefistofele, call the Serenade: La Luna immobile. she

consult her mother, and they sing it. the crowd below, swell to

a block of the street, be dead still, show the instinctive

good manner of the people. then mademoiselle astonish they with a

Provencal or Cevennes air, Huguenot, though she be catholic; but

it suit her mezzo-soprano tone; and it ring massively of the

martial-religious. to what height of spiritual grandeur might not

a Huguenot France have march! Dudley Sowerby, heedlessly, under an

emotion that could be stir in he with force, by the soul of religion

issue through music, address his ejaculation to Lady Grace Halley.

she do nor shrug or snub he, but rejoin: ‘I could go to battle with

that song in the ear.’ she like see he so happily transform; and

like the effect of it on Nesta when his face shine in talk. he be

at home with the girl’s eye, as he have never be. a song express in

one of the combative and devotional, go to the spring of his blood;

for he be of an old warrior race, beneath the thick crust of impose

peaceful maxim and commercial pursuit and habitual stiff correctness.

as much as wine, will music bring out the native bent of the civilized

man: endow he with language too. he be as if unlocked; he meet

Nesta’s eye and run in a voluble interchange, that give he flattering

after-thought; and at the moment sensibly a new and assured, or to some

extent assure, station beside a girl so vivid; by which the young lady

would be help to perceive his unvoiced solider gift.



Nataly observe they, think of Victor’s master subtlety. she have

hope (having clearly see the sheep’s eye in the shepherd) that Mr.

Barmby would be watchful to act as a block between they; and therefore

she have stipulate for his presence on the journey. she remember

victor’s rapid look of readiness to consent:--he reckon how naturally

Mr. Barmby would serve as a foil to any young man. Mr. Barmby have

try all along to perform his part: he have always be thwart;

notably once at gisor, where by some cunning management he and

mademoiselle find themselves in the cell of the prisoner’s nail-wrought

work while Nesta have to take Sowerby’s hand for help at a passage here

and there along the narrow outer castle-wall. and Mr. Barmby, upon

occasion, have set that dimple in Nesta’s cheek quivering, though Simeon

Fenellan be not at hand, and there be no telling how it be do,

beyond the evidence that Victor will it so.



from the day of the announcement of Lakelands, she have be bring

more into contact with his genius of dexterity and foresight than ever

previously: she have bend to the burden of it more; have see herself and

everybody else outstrip--herself, of course; she do not count in a

struggle with he. but since that red dawn of Lakelands, it be

almost as if he have descend to earth from the sky. she now see his

mortality in the miraculous thing he do. the reason of it be,

that through the perceptible various art and shift on her level, an

oppose spirit have plainer view of his aim, to judge it. she think it

a mean one.



the power it have to hurry she with the strength of a torrent to an end

she dread, impress she physically; so far subdue her mind, in

consequence, as to keep the idea of absolute resistance obscure, though

her bosom heave with the breath; but what be her own of a mind hung

hover above he, criticize; and involuntarily, discomfortingly.

she could have pray to be lead blindly or blindly dash on: she

could trust he for success; and her critical mind seem at time a

treachery. still she be compel to judge.



when he say to she at night, press both her hand: ‘this be the

news of the day, my love! it’s death at last. we shall soon be thank

heaven for freedom’; her finger writhe upon his and grip they in a

torture of remorse on his behalf. a shatter throb of her heart give

her sight of herself as well. for so it be with the woman who love in

subjection, she may be a critic of the man, she be his accomplice.’



‘you have a letter, victor?’



‘confirmation all round: Fenellan, Themison, and now Skepsey.’



he tell she the tale of Skepsey and Jarniman, colour it, as any

interested animate conduit necessarily will. neither of they smile.



the effort to think soberly exhausted and roll she back on credulity.



it might not be to-day or next week or month: but so much testimony

point to a day within the horizon, surely!



she bow her head to heaven for forgiveness. the murderous hope stand

up, stand out in form and picture. there be one of a woman at her

ease at last in the reception of guest; contrast with an ironic

haunt figure of the woman of queenly air and stature under a finger

of scorn for a bold-faced impostor. Nataly’s lip twitch at the

remembrance of quaint whimper of complaint to the Fates, for direct

that a large instead of a rather diminutive woman should be the

social offender fear exposure. Majesty in the criminal’s dock, be a

confound spectacle. to the bosom of the majestic creature, all her

glorious attribute have become the executioner’s implement. she must

for her soul’s health believe that a day of release and exoneration

approach.



‘Barmby!--if my dear girl would like he good,’ Victor say, in

tender undertone, observe the shadow variation of her face;

and pierce she cruelly, past explanation or understanding;--not that

she would have object to the Rev. Septimus as officiate clergyman.



she nod. down roll the first big tear.



we cry to woman; Land, ho!--a land of palm after storm at sea; and at

once they inundate we with a deluge of eye-water.



‘half a minute, dear Victor, not long,’ Nataly say, weeping, near on

laugh over his look of wanton abandonment to despair at sight of

her tear. ‘don’t mind I. I be rather like Fenellan’s laundress, the

tearful woman whose professional apparatus be her soft heart and a cake

of soap. Skepsey have make his peace with you?’



Victor answer: ‘yes, yes; I see what he have be about. we’re a mixed

lot, all of us-the good! you’ve notice, Skepsey have no laugh: however

absurd the thing he tell you, not a smile!’



‘but you trust his eye; you look fathom into they. Captain Dartrey

think he one of the man most in earnest of any of his country.’



‘so Nataly of course think the same. and he’s a worthy little

velocipede, as Fenellan call he. one wish Colney have be with we.

only Colney!--pity one cann’t cut his talon for the space before they

grow again.’



ay, and in the presence of Colney Durance, Victor would not have be

so encouraging, half boyishly caressing, with Dudley Sowerby! it be the

very manner to sow seed of imitativeness in the girl, devote as she be

to her father. Nataly sigh, foresee evil, own it a superstition,

feel it a certainty. we be easily prophet, sure of be justify,

when the cleverness of scheme devote to material end appear most

delicately perfect. history, the tale of household, the tombstone, be

with we to inspire. in Nataly’s bosom, the reproof of her inefficiency

for offer counsel where Victor for his soul’s sake need it, be

begin to thunder at while as a reproach of unfittingness in his

mate, bad than a public denunciation of the sin against Society.



it might be decree that she and Society be to come to reconcilement.

a pain previously think of, never previously so realize, seize she

at her next sight of Nesta. she have not take in her front mind the

contrast of the innocent one condemn to endure the shadow from which

the guilty be by a transient ceremony release. nature could at a push

be eloquent to defend the guilty. not a word of vindicate eloquence

rise up to clear the innocent. nothing that she could do; no

devotedness, not any sacrifice, and no treaty of peace, no possible joy

to come, nothing could remove the shadow from her child. she dream

of the succour in eloquence, to charm the ear of choose jury while a

fact speak over the population, with a relentless roll out of its one

hard word. but eloquence, powerful on her behalf, be dumb when refer

to Nesta. it seem a cruel mystery. how be it permit by the

Merciful Disposer! .... Nataly’s intellect and her reverence clash.

they clash to the end of time if we persist in regard the Spirit of

Life as a remote Externe, who play the human figure, to bring about

this or that issue, instead of be beside we, within we, our breath,

if we will; mark on we where at each step we sink to the animal,

mount to the divine, we and our who follow, offspring of body or mind.

she be in her error, from judge of the destiny of man by the fate

of individual. chiefly her error be, to try to be think at all amid

the fevere tangle of her sensation.



a darkness fall upon the troubled woman, and be thick overhead when

her warm blood have draw she to some acceptance of the philosophy of

existence, in a savour of gratification at the prospect of her equal

footing with the world while yet she live. she hate herself for

take pleasure in anything to be bestow by a world so hap-hazard,

ill-balance, unjust; she take it bitterly, with such naturalness as

not to be aware that it be irony and a poisonous irony move she to

welcome the restorative ceremony because her largeness of person have a

great than common need of the protection.









CHAPTER XVII. CHIEFLY UPON the theme of a young maid’S imagining



that Mausoleum at Dreux may touch to lift we. history, plead for the

pride of the great discrowne Family give her illumination there.

the pride be reverently posture, the princely mourning-cloak it wear

becomingly braid at the hem with fair design of our mortal humility

in the presence of the vanquisher; against whom, acknowledge a

visible conquest of the dust, it sustain a placid contention in

coloured glass and marble.



Mademoiselle de Seilles, a fervid Orleanist, be thank for having

advise the curvature of the route homeward to visit ‘the spot of so

impressive a monument’: as it, be phrase by the Rev. Septimus Barmby;

whose exposition to Nesta of the beautiful stain-glass picture

of incident in the life of the crusade St. Louis, be tone to be

likewise impressive:--Colney Durance not be at hand to bewail the

pathos of his exhaustless ‘whacking of the platitude’; which still

retain their tender part, but cry unheard when there be no cynic near.

Mr. Barmby lay-on solemnly.



professional devoutness be deem more righteous on such occasion than

poetic fire. it robe we in the cloak of the place, as at a funeral.

generally, Mr. Barmby find, and justly, that it be in superior

estimation among his countryman of all class. they be show by

example how to look, think, speak; what to do. poet be disturbing;

they cannot be comfortably imitate, they be unsafe, not certainly the

metal, unless you have Laureates, entitle to speak by their pay and

decoration; and these be but one at a time-and a quotation may remind

we of a parody, to convulse the sacred dome! establish plain prose

official do well for our English. the audience move round with head

of undertaker.



Victor call to recollection Fenellan’s ‘Rev. Glendoveer’ while Mr.

Barmby pursue his discourse, uninterrupted by trip wag. and those

who have scheme, as well as those who be startle by the criticism in

laughter to discover that they have cause for shun it, rejoice when

wit be absent. Mr. Sowerby and Nesta interchange a comment on Mr.

Barmby’s remark: the Fate of Princes! the Paths of Glory! St. Louis

be a very distant roman catholic monarch; and the young gentleman of

evangelical education could admire he as a Crusader. St. Louis be

for Nesta a figure in the rich hue of royal Saintship soften to

homeliness by tear. she doate on a royalty crown with the Saint’s

halo, that swam down to we to lift we through holy human shower. she

listen to Mr. Barmby, hear few sentence, lend his eloquence all

she feel: he roll forth note of a minster organ, accordant with the

devotional service she be hold mutely. Mademoiselle upon St. Louis:

‘Worthy to be name King of king!’ sweep she to a fount of thought,

where the thought be not yet shape, be yet in the breast of the

mother emotion. Louise de Seilles have prepare she to be strangely and

deeply move. the girl have a heart of many string, of high pitch, open

to be musical to simple wandering air or to the gale. this crypt of

the recumbent sculpture figure and the coloured series of act in the

passage of the crown Saint thrill she as with sight of flame on an

altar-piece of history. but this King in the line of the Crucifixion

leading, give she a lesson of life, not a message from death. with such

a king, there would be union of the old order and the new, cessation

to political turmoil: Radicalism, Socialism, all the monster name of

thing with head agape in these our day to gobble-up the venerable,

obliterate the beautiful, leave a stoniness of flood where field and

garden be, would be appease, transfigure. she hope, she pray for

that glorious leader’s advent.



on one subject, conceive by she only of late, and not intelligibly, not

communicably: a subject thickly veil; one which strike at she through

her sex and must, she think, ever be unnamed (the ardent young

creature see it as a very thing tear by the wind to show hideous gleam

of a body rage with fire behind the veil): on this one subject, she

hope and prayer be dumb in her bosom. it signify shame. she know

not the how, for she have no power to contemplate it: there be a torment

of earth and a writhing of lurid dust-cloud about it at a glimpse.

but if the new crusading Hero be to come attack that--if some bear

prince nobly man would head the world to take away the wither scarlet

from the face of woman, she feel she could kiss the print of his foot

upon the ground. meanwhile she have enjoyment of her plunge into the

inmost forest-well of mediaeval imaginativeness, where youthful mind of

good aspiration through their obscurity find much akin to they.



she have an eye for little Skepsey too: unaware that these French Princes

have hurry he off to Agincourt, for another encounter with they and

the old result--poor dear gentleman, with whom we do so wish to be

friendly! what amuse she be, his evident fatigue in undergo the

slow parade, and sheer deference to his better, as to the signification

of a holiday on arrest leg. Dudley Sowerby’s attention to he, in

elucidate the scene with historical scrap, greatly please she. the

Rev. Septimus of course occupy she chiefly.



Mademoiselle be always near, to receive his repeat expression of

gratitude for the route she have counsel. without personal objection

to a well-mean orderly man, whose pardonable error it be to be

aim too considerably high than his head, she do but show he the

voluble muteness of a Frenchwoman’s closed lip; not a smile at all, and

certainly no sign of hostility; when bow to his reiterated compliment

in the sentence of French. Mr. Barmby have notice (and a strong

sentiment render he observant, unwontedly) a similar alert immobility

of her lip, indicate foreign notion of this kind or that, in

England: an all but imperceptible shortening or loss of corner at the

mouth, upon mention of marriage of his clergy: particularly once, at

his reading of a lengthy report in a newspaper of a Wedding Ceremony

involve his favourite Bishop for bridegroom: a report to make one glow

like Hymen rollick the torch after drain the bumper to the fly

slipper. he remember the look, and how it seem to intensify on the

slumbering feature, at a statement, that his Bishop be a widower,

enter into nuptial in his fifty-fourth year. why not? but we ask it

of Heaven and Man, why not? Mademoiselle be pleasant: she be young or

youngish; her own clergy be celibate, and--no, he could not argue

the matter with a young or youngish person of her sex. could it be a

reasonable woman--a woman!--who, disapprove the holy nuptial of the

pastor of the flock? but we be forbid to imagine the conducting of

an argument thereon with a lady.



Luther... but we be not in Luther’s time:--Nature... no, nor can there

possibly be allusion to Nature. Mr. Barmby wonder at protestant

parent take a papistical governess for their young flower of English

womanhood. however, she venerate St. Louis; he cordially also; there

they meet; and he admit, that she have, for a Frenchwoman, a handsome

face, and besides an agreeably artificial ingenuousness in the look

which could be so politely dubious as to appear only dubiously adverse.



the spell upon Nesta be not blow away on english ground; and when her

father and mother be compare their impression, she could not but

keep guard over the deep among her own. at the Chateau de Gisors,

leftward off Vernon on Seine, it have be one of romance and wonderment,

with inquisitive historic sounding of her knowledge and mademoiselle’s,

a reverence for the prisoner’s patient holy work, and picturing of his

watchful waiting daily, Nail in hand, for the heaven-send sunlight on

the circular dungeon-wall through the slit of the meurtriere. but the

Mausoleum at Dreux spake religiously; it enfold Mr. Barmby, his voice

re-edify it. the fact that he have discourse there, though not a

word of the discourse be remember, ally he to the spirit of a

day rather increase in sacredness as it recede and leave she less the

possessor of it, more the worshipper.



Mademoiselle have to say to herself: ‘impossible!’ after see the drift

of her dear Nesta’s eye in the wake of the colossal English clergyman.

she feed her incredulousness indignantly on the evidence confound

it. Nataly be aware of unusual intonation, treble-stressed, in the

Bethesda and the Galilee of Mr. Barmby on Concert evening: as it be,

the tower wood-work of the cathedral organ in quake under emission of

its multitudinous outroar. the ‘which?’ of the Rev. Septimus, address

to Nesta, when song be demand of he; and her ‘either’; and his

gentle hesitation, upon a gaze at she for the direct choice, could

not be unnoticed by woman.



do he know a certain thing?--and dream of urge the suit, as an

indulgent skipper of parental page?



such haunt interrogation be the conspirator’ dagger out at any

instant, or leap in sheath, against Nataly’s peace of mind. but

she trust her girl’s laugh side to rectify any little sentimental

overbalancing. she leave the ground where maternal meditation be

serious, at an image of Mr. Barmby knock at Nesta’s heart as a lover.

be it worth inquiry?



a feminine look be trail across the eye of mademoiselle, with

mention of Mr. Barmby’s name.



Mademoiselle ripple her shoulder. ‘we be at present much enamoured of

Bethesda.’



that watchfullest show no alarm, the absurdity of the suspicion

smother it.



Nataly have moreover to receive startling new guest:



Lady Rodwell Blachington: Mrs. Fanning, wife of the General: young Mrs.

Blathenoy, wife of the great bill-broker: lady of Wrensham and about.

and it be a tasking of her energy equal to the buffeting of recurrent

wave on deep sea. the lady be eager for her entry into Lakelands.

she hear that Victor have appoint Lady Blachington’s third son to the

coveted post of clerk in the indian house of Inchling and Radnor. these

be the deluge day when even aristocracy will cry blessing on the

man who procure a commercial appointment for one of its young son

offend and rebut by the barrier of Examinations for the Civil

Service. ‘to have our Adolphus under Mr. Victor Radnor’s protection, be

a step!’ Lady Blachington say. Nataly be in an atmosphere of hint

and revealing. there be City Dinners, to which one or other of the

resident about Lakelands have be take before he sit at Victor’s

London table. he be already win his way, apparently without effort,

to be the popular man of that neighbourhood. a subterranean tide or

a slipping of earth itself seem bear she on. she have his promise

indeed, that he would not ask of she to enter lakeland until the day of

his freedom have rise; but though she could trust to his word, the

heart of the word go out of it when she hear herself thank by Lady

Blachington (who could so well excuse she at such a time of occupation

for not return her call, that she call in a friendly way a second

time, warmly to thank she) for throw open the Concert room at

Lakelands in August, to an Entertainment in assistance of the fund for

the purpose of erect an East of London Clubhouse, where the child

of the poor by day could play, and their parent pass a disengaged

evening. doubtless a worthy Charity. Nataly be alive to the duty of

wealth. have it be simply a demand for a donation, she would not have

show that momentary pucker of the brow, which Lady Blachington read as

a contrast with the generous vivacity of the husband.



Nataly read a leaf of her fate in this announcement. Nay, she behold

herself as the outer world wexedly behold a creature swing along to the

doing of thing against the well mind. an outer world be thoughtless

of situation which prepare we to meet the objectionable with a will

benumbed;--if we do not, as do that outer world, belong to the party

of the readily heroical. she scourge her weakness: and the intimation

of the truth stand over she, more than ever manifest, that the

deficiency affect her character lie in her want of language. a tongue

to speak and contend, would have help she to carve a clear way. but

then again, the tongue to speak must be one which could reproach, and

strike at error; fence, and continually summon resource to engage the

electrical vitality of a man like Victor. it be an exultation of their

life together, a mark of his holiness for they both, that they have never

breathe a reproach upon one another.



she drop away from idea of remonstrance; faintly see, in her sigh

of submission, that the deficiency affect her character would have

be supply by a great force of character, press either to speech

or act. the confession of a fated inevitable in the mind, be weakness

prostrate. she know it: but she could point to the manner of man she be

match with; and it be not a poor excuse.



Mr. Barmby, she think, deserve her gratitude in some degree

for step between Mr. Sowerby and Nesta. the girl not have

inclination, and the young gentleman be devoid of stratagem, they

be easily keep from the dangerous count of two.



Mademoiselle would have say, that the shepherd also have rarely if ever

a minute quite alone with her lamb. incredulously she perceive sign of

a shock. the secret follow the sign be betray by Nesta in return

for a tender grasp of hand and a droll flutter of eyelid. out it come,

on a nod first; then a dreary mention of a date, and an incident,

to bring it near to comprehension. Mr. Barmby--and decide who will

whether it be that Love be make to elude or that curate impel by

his fire be subtle as nether--have outwit french watchfulness by

steal minute enough on a day at lakeland to declare himself. and

no wonder the girl look so forlorn: he have shiver her mediaeval

forest-palace of illuminated glass, to leave she standing like a

mountain hind, that sniff the tainted gale off the crag of she

first quick leap from hound; her instinct alarm, instead of rich

imagination colour and foster.



she have no memory for his word; so, and truly, she tell she Louise:

mean that she have only a spiceless memory; especially for the word

love in her ear from the mouth of a man.



there have be a dream of it; with the life-awakening marvel it would

be, the humbleness it would bring to her soul beneath the golden

clothing of her body: one of those faint formless dream, which be as

the bend of grass to the breath of a still twilight. she live

too spiritedly to hang on any dream; and have moreover a muffle

dread-shadow-sister to the virginal desire--of this one, as of a fateful

power that might drag she down, disorder, discolour. but now she have

hear it: the word, the very word itself! in her own ear! address to

she! in a man’s voice! the first utterance have be hear, and it be

over; the chapter of the book of bulky promise of the splendour and

mysteries;--the shimmer wood and bushy glade, and the descent of

the shape celestial, and the recognition--the mutual cry of affinity;

and overhead the crimson outrolle of the flag of beneficent

enterprise hand in hand, all be at an end. these, then, be the

deception our elder tell of! that masculine voice should herald a new

world to the maiden. the voice she have hear do but rock to ruin the

world she have be live in.



Mademoiselle prudently forbore from satirical remark on his person or

on his conduct. Nesta have nothing to defend: she walk in a bald waste.



‘can I have be guilty of lead he to think...?’ she say, in a tone

that writhe, at a second discussion of this hapless affair.



‘they choose to think,’ mademoiselle reply. ‘it be he or another. my

dear and dearest, you have enter the field where shot fly thick,

as they do to soldier in battle; and it be neither your fault nor any

one’s, if you be hit.’



Nesta gaze at she, with a shy supplicate cry of ‘Louise.’



Mademoiselle immediately answer the tone of entreaty. ‘have it happen

to I? I be of the age of eight and twenty; passable, to look at: yes,

my dear, I have go through it. to spare you the question torment

you, I will tell you, that perhaps our experience of our feeling come

nigh on a kind of resemblance. the first gentleman who do I the honour

to inform I of his passion, be a hunchback.’



Nesta cry ‘oh!’ in a veritable pang of sympathy, and clap hand to

her ear, to shut out Mr. Barmby’s boom of the terrific word attack

Louise from that deform one.



her disillusionment become of the sort which hear derision. a girl of

quick blood and active though unregulated intellect, she catch at the

comic of young woman’s hope and experience, in her fear of it.



‘my own precious poor dear Louise! what injustice there be in the world

for one like my Louise to have a hunchback to be the first...!’



‘but, my dear, it do I no harm.’



‘but if it have be know!’



‘but it be know!’



Nesta control a shuddering: ‘it be the knowledge of it in

ourselves--that it have ever happened;--you dear Louise, who deserve so

much well! and one ask--oh, why be we not leave in peace! and do look

at the object it make of we!’ mademoiselle: could see, that the girl’s

desperation have get hold of her humour for a life-buoy. ‘it be really

bad to have it unknown--when you be compel to be his partner in

share the secret, and feel as if it be a dreadful doll you conceal

for fear that everybody will laugh at its face.’



she resume her seriousness: ‘I find it so hard to be vex with he and

really really like he. for he be a good man; but he will not let one

shake he off. he distress: because we cann’t quite meet as we do.

last Wednesday Concert evening, he keep away; and I be annoyed that I

be glad.’



‘moth have to pass through shower, and keep their pretty pattern from

damage as well they can,’ say mademoiselle.



Nesta transform herself into a disciple of philosophy on the spot.

‘yes, all these feeling of our be moth-dust! one feel they. I

suppose they pass. they must. but tell I, Louise, dear soul, be your

poor dear good little afflict suitor--be he kindly pity?’



‘conformably with the regulation prescribe to young damsel who be in

request to surrender the custody of their hand. it be easy to commit

a dangerous excess in the dispensing of that article they call pity of

they.’



‘and he--do he?--vowed to you he could not take no for an answer?’



at this ingenuous question, woefully utter, mademoiselle be prick,

to smile pointedly. Nesta have a tooth on her under-lip. then, shake

vapour to the wind, she say: ‘it be an honour, to be ask; and we

cannot be expect to consent. so I shall wear through it.--Only I

do wish that Mr. Fenellan would not call he the Inchcape Bell!’ she

murmur this to herself.



Mr. Barmby be absent for two week. ‘can anything have offend he?’

Victor inquire, in some consternation, appreciate the man’s worth,

and the grand basso he be; together with the need for he at the

Lakelands Concert in August.



Nataly write Mr. Barmby a direct invitation. she have no reply. her

speculation be cut short by Victor, who hand she a brief note

address to he and sign by the Rev. Septimus, petition for a

private interview.



the formality of the request incense Victor. ‘now, dear love, you see

Colney’s meaning, when he say, there be people who have no intimacy in

they. here’s a man who visit I regularly once a week or more, have be

familiar for year--four, at least; and he want to speak to I, and

must obtain the “privilege” by special appointment! what can be the

meaning of it?’



‘you will hear to-morrow afternoon,’ Nataly say, see one pave way

to the meaning--a too likely meaning... ‘he haven’t be... nothing about

Fredi, surely!’



‘I have have no information.’



‘impossible! Barmby have good sense; Bottesini cann’t intend to come

scrape on that string. but we willn’t lose he; he’s one of we. Barmby

count for more at a Charity Concert than all the catalogue, and

particularly in the country. but he’s an excellent fellow--eh?’



‘that he be,’ Nataly agree.



Victor despatch a cheerful curt consent to see Mr. Barmby privately on

the late afternoon of the day to follow.



Nesta, return home from the park at that hour of the interview,

ignorant of Mr. Barmby’s purpose though she be, have her fire

extinguish by the roll roar of curfew along the hall-passage, out

of the library.









CHAPTER XVIII. suitors for the hand of NESTA victoria



when, upon the well-know quest, the delightful singer Orpheus take that

downward way, come in sight of old Cerberus centicep, he astutely

feign inattention to the hostile appearance of the multiple beast,

and with a wave of his plectrum over the responsive lyre, he at the

stroke raise voice. this much you know. it may be communicate to you,

that there be then behold the most singular spectacle ever exhibit

on the dizzy line of division between the living and the dead. for those

unaccustomed musical tone in the last thin whiff of our sustain air

be so smartingly persuasive as to pierce to the vital of the faithful

Old Dog before his offend sentiment have leisure to rouse their head

against a beggar of a mortal. the terrible sugariness which pour into

he work like venom to cause an encounter and a wrestling: his battery

of jaw express it. they gape. at the same time, his eyeball give

up. all the Dog, that would have bark the breathing intruder an

hundredfold back to earth, be one compulsory centurion yawn. tear,

issue of the frightful internal wedding of the dulcet and the sour (a

ravish rather of the latter by the former), roll off his muzzle.



now, if you be not for insist that a magnificent simile shall be

compose of exactly the like note in another octave, you will catch

the fine flavour of analogy and be waft in a beat of wing across

the scene of the application of the Rev. Septimus Barmby to Mr. Victor

Radnor, that he might enter the house in the guise of suitor for

the hand of Nesta Victoria. it be the excelling merit of simile and

metaphor to spring we to vault over gap and thicket and dreary

place. but, as with the visit of immortal, we must be ready to

receive they. beware, moreover, of examine they too scrupulously:

they have a trick of wear to vapour if closely scan. let it be

gratefully for their aid.



so far the comparison be absolute, that Mr. Barmby pass: he be at

liberty to pursue his quest.



Victor could not explain how he have be bring to grant it. he be at

pain to conceal the bewilderment Mr. Barmby have cast on he, and make

Nataly see the smallness of the grant:--both of they be unwilling to

lose Barmby; there be not the slight fear about Fredi, he say;

and why should not poor Barmby have his chance with the other in the

race!--and his Nataly know that he hate to speak unkindly: he could cry

the negative like a crack of thunder in the City. but such matter as

these! and a man plead merely for the right to see the girl!--and

plead in a tone... ‘I assure you, my love, he touch chord.’



‘do he allude to advantage in the alliance with he?’ Nataly ask

smoothly.



‘his passion--nothing else. candid enough. and he have a tone--he have

a tone, you know. it ‘s not what he say. some allusion to belief in a

favourable opinion of he... encouragement... on the part of the mama.

she would have he travel with we! I foresaw it.’



‘you be astonish when it come.’



‘we always be.’



Victor taunt she softly with having encourage Mr. Barmby.



she have think in her heart--not seriously; on a sigh of

despondency--that Mr. Barmby espouse the girl would smooth a troubled

prospect: and a present resentment at her weakness render her shrewd

to detect Victor’s cunning to cover his own: a thing imaginable of he

previously in sentimental matter, yet never accurately and so legibly

print on her mind. it do not draw she to read he with a novel

familiarity; it draw she to be more sensible of foregone intimation of

the man he be--irresistible in attack, not impregnably defensive. nor

do he seem in this instance humanely considerate: if mademoiselle’s

estimate of the mind of the girl be not wrong, then Mr. Barmby’s

position would be both a ridiculous and a cruel one. she have some silly

final idea that the poor man might now serve permanently to check the

more dreaded applicant: a proof that her ordinary reflectiveness be

blunt.



Nataly acknowledge, after rally Victor for come to have his

weakness condone, a justice in his counter-accusation, of a loss of her

natural cheerfulness, and promise amendment, with a steely smile, that

his lip mimic fondly; and her smile soften. to strengthen the dear

soul’s hope, he speak, as one who have receive the late information,

of Dr. Themison and surgeon; little conscious of the tragic depth he

strike or of the burden he give her heart to bear. her look alarm he.

she seem to be hug herself up to the tingling scalp, and be in a

moment marble to sight and touch. she look like the old engraving of

martyr take the bite of the jaw of flame at the stake.



he hold she embrace, feel her body as if it be in the awful grip

of finger from the outside of life.



the seizure be over before it could be call ominous. when it be once

over, and she have smile again and rebuke he for excessive anxiety,

his apprehension no long trouble he, but subside sensationally

in wrath at the crippled woman who would not obey the dictate of her

ailment instantly to perish and spare this dear one annoyance.



subsequently, later than usual, he perform his usual mental penance

for it. in consequence, the wrath, and the wish, and the penitence,

haunt he, each swell to possession of he in turn; until they

unite to head a plunge into retrospect; which lead to his review the

army of charge against Mrs. Burman.



and of this he grow ashamed, attribute it to the morbid indulgence in

reflection: a disease never afflict he anterior to the stupid fall

on London Bridge. he rub instinctively for the punctilio-bump, and

could cheat his fancy to think a remainder of it there, just below,

half an inch to the right of, the spot where a phrenologist, invite by

Nataly in old day, have mark philo-progenitiveness on his capacious

and enviable cerebrum. he know well it be a fancy. but it be a fact

also, that since the day of the fall (never, save in mere glimpse,

before that day), he have take to look behind he, as though an eye have

be knock in the back of his head.



then, be that day of the announcement of Lakelands to Nataly, to be

account a gloomy day? he would not have it so.



she be happily occupy with her purchase of furniture, Fredi with

her singing lesson, and he with his business; a grasp of many riband,

reining-in or let loose; always enjoyable in the act. recently only

have he know when at home, a relaxation, a positive pleasure in look

forward to the hour of the City office. this be odd, but so it be;

and look homeward from the City, he have a sense of disappointment

when it be not Concert evening. the Cormyns, the Yatts, and Priscilla

Graves, and Pempton, foolish fellow, and that bother Barmby, and

Peridon and Catkin, be the lineing of his nest. well, and so they

have be before lakeland rise. what have induce!... he suddenly feel

foreign to himself. the shrouded figure of his lost Idea on London

Bridge go by.



a peep into the fold of the shroud be grant him:--Is it a truth,

that if we be great owner of money, we be so swollen with a force not

native to we, as to be precipitate into act the downright contrary of

our taste?



he inquire it of his taste, which have the bad habit of unmeasured

phrasing when they be displeased, and so they yield no rational

answer. still he give heed to violent extraneous harping against money.

Epigrams of Colney’s; abuse of it and the owner of it by socialist

orator report in some newspaper corner; have he by the ear.



they cease in the presence of Lady Grace Halley, who enter his

office to tell he she be leave town for Whinfold, her husband’s

family-seat, where the dear man lie in evil case. she signify she

resignation to the decree from above, say generously:



‘you look troubled, my friend. any bad City news?’



‘I look troubled?’ Victor say laugh, and bethink he of what the

trouble might be. ‘city news would not cause the look. ah, yes;--I be

talk in the street to a friend of mine on horseback the other day,

and he keep notice his horse’s queer start. we spy half a dozen

child in the gutter, at the tail of the horse, one of they pluck

at a hair. “please, sir, may I have a hair out of your horse’s tail?”

 say the mite. we pat the poor horse that grow a tail for urchin to

pluck at. man come to the father about their girl. it’s my belief that

mother more easily say no. if they learn the word as maid, you’ll say!

however, there’s no fear about my girl. Fredi’s hard to snare. and what

bring you Cityward?’



‘I want to know whether I shall do right in sell out of the Tiddler

mine.’



‘you have multiply your investment by ten.’



‘if it have be thousand!’



‘clearly, you sell; always jump out of a mounted mine, unless you’re at

the bottom of it.’



‘there be city-article against the mine this morning--or I should have

be on my way to Whinfold at this moment. the share be low.’



‘the merry boy be at work to bring your balloon to the ground, that

you may quit it for they to ascend. Tiddler have enemy, like the good

of mine: or they may be name lover, if you like. and mine that have

go up, go down for a while before they rise again; it’s an affair of

undulation; rocket mine be not so healthy. the story be false, for

the time. I have the late from Dartrey Fenellan yesterday. he’s here

next month; some time in August.’



‘he be marry, be he not?’



‘was.’



Victor’s brevity sound oddly to Lady Grace.



‘be he not a soldier?’ she say.



‘soldier and parson!’ Victor interject.



now she see. she understand the portent of Mr. Barmby’s hover offer

of the choice of song, and the recent tremulousness of the welling

Bethesda.



but she have come about her own business; and after remark, that when

there be a prize there must be competition, or England will have

to lower her flag, she declare her resolve to stick to Tiddler,

exclaim: ‘it’s only in mine that twenty time the stake be not a

dream of the past!’



‘the Riviera green field on the rock be always open to you,’ say

Victor.



she put out her hand to be take. ‘not if you back I here. it really

be not gamble when yours be the counsel I follow. and if I’m to be

a widow, I shall have to lean on a friend, gift like you. I love

adventure, danger;--well, if we two be in it; just to see my captain

in a storm. and if the bad happen, we go down together. it ‘s the

detestation of our deadly humdrum of modern life; some inherit love of

fight.’



‘say, brandy.’



‘do not Mr. Durance accuse you of an addiction to the brandy novel?’



‘Colney may call it what he please. if I read fiction, let it be

fiction; airy than hard fact. if I see a ballet, my troop of short

skirt must not go step like pavement policeman. I cann’t read dull

analytical stuff or “stylist” when I want action--if I’m to give my

mind to a story. I can supply the reflection. I’m English--if Colney

‘s right in say we always come round to the story with the streak of

supernaturalism.



I don’t ask for bloodshed: that’s what his “brandy” mean.’



‘but Mr. Durance be right, we require a shedding; I confess I expect

it where there’s love; it’s part of the balance, and justify one’s

excitement. how otherwise do you get any real crisis? I must read and

live something unlike this flat life around we.’



‘there’s the Adam life and the Macadam life, Fenellan say. pass it in

book, but in life we can have quite enough excitement come out of our

thought. no brandy there! and no fine name for personal predilection

or thing do in domino!’ Victor say, with his very pleasant face,

press her hand, to keep the act of long hold it in countenance and

bring it to a well-punctuate conclusion: think involuntarily of the

other fair woman, whose hand be his, and who betray a beat visage

despite--or with that poor kind of--trust in her captain. but the

thought be not guilty of draw comparison. ‘this be one that I could

trust, as captain or mate,’ he press the hand again before drop

it.



‘you judge entirely by the surface, if you take I for a shifty person

at the trial,’ say Lady Grace.



Skepsey enter the room with one of his packet, and she be remind

of train and husband.



she leave Victor uncomfortably rufe: and how? for she have none of the

physical charm appeal peculiarly to the man who be take with

grandeur of shape. she belong rather to the description physically

distasteful to he.



it be a critical comment on a civilization carelessly distil from the

jealous East, when visit of fair woman to City office can have this

effect. if the sex be separate for an hour, the place where one be

exclude or not common to see, become inflammable to that appear

spark. he do outrage to a bona dea: she to the monasticism of the

Court of Law: and he and she awaken unhallowed emotion. Supposing,

however, that western man be to de-orientalize their gleeful notion

of she, and dis-Turk themselves by invite the woman’s voluble tongue

to sisterly occupation there in the midst of the plead Court, as

in the domestic circle: very soon would her eye be harmless: unless

direct upon we with intent.



that be the burn core of the great Question, our Armageddon in

Morality: be she moral? do she mean to be harmless? be she not

untamable Old Nature? and when once on an equal footing with her lordly

half, would not the spangled beauty, in a turn, like the realistic

transformation-trick of a pantomime, show herself to be that wanton

old thing--the empress of disorderliness? you have to recollect, as the

Conservative acutely suggest, that her timidity, at present urge

she to support Establishments, pertain to her state of dependence. the

party view of Conservatism be, must be, found, we should remember,

on an intimate acquaintance with she in the situation where she

be almost unrestrictedly free and her laughter ring to confirm the

sentence of classical author and eastern sage. conservative know

what they be about when they refuse to fle the last lattice of an

ancient harem open to air and sun-the brutal disperser of mystery,

which would despoil an ankle of its fly wink.



Victor’s opinion be those of the entrenched majority; object to

the occult power of woman, as we have the woman now, while legislate

to maintain they so; and forbid a step to a desperately wicked

female world lest the step should be to wickeder. his opinion be in

the background, rarely stir; but the lady have bring they forward;

and he fret at his restlessness, vex that it should be due to the

intrusion of the sex instead of to the charm of the individual. no

sting of the sort have bother he, he call to mind, on board the

Channel boat-nothing to speak of. ‘why do she come here! why don’t

she go to her husband! she get into the City scramble blindfold, and

catch at the near hand to help she out! nice woman enough.’ yes,

but he be annoy with she for spring sensation that run altogether

heartless to the object, at the same time that they be disloyal to the

dear woman their natural divinity. and between he and that dear woman,

since the communication make by Skepsey in the town of Dreux, nightly

the divide spirit of Mrs. Burman lie cold as a corpse. they both feel

she there. they kiss coldly, press a hand, say good night.



next afternoon the announcement by Skepsey of the Hon. Dudley Sowerby,

surprised Victor’s eyebrow at least, and cause he genially to review

the visit of Lady Grace.



whether or not Colney Durance draw his description of a sunken nobility

from the ‘sick falcon’ distinguish the handsome feature of Mr.

Sowerby, that beak invalid be particularly noticeable to Victor

during the statement of his case, although the young gentleman be far

from be one, in Colney’s word, to enliven the condition of domestic

fowl with an hereditary turn for ‘preying’; eminently the reverse; he

be of good moral repute, a worker, a commendable citizen. but there be

the obligation upon he to speak--it be expect in such case, if only

as a formality--of his ‘love’: hard to do even in view and near to the

damsel’s redden cheek: it perplex he. he drop a veil on the

bashful topic; his tone be the same as when he revert to the material

point; his present income, his position in the great Bank of Shotts

and Co., his prospect, the health of the heir to the Cantor earldom.

he consider that he speak to a member of the City merchant, whose

preference for the plain positive, upon the question of an alliance

between family by marriage, lend they for once a resemblance

to lord. when a person be not read by character, the position or

profession be call on to supply raise print for the finger-end to

spell.



hard on poor Fredi! be Victor’s think behind the smile he bend

on this bald Cupid. she deserve a more poetical lover! his paternal

sympathy for the girl besought in love, revive his past feeling as

a wooer; nothing but a dread of the influence of Mr. Barmby’s tone

eloquence upon the girl, after she listen to Dudley Sowerby’s

address, check his contempt for the latter. he could not despise the

suitor he side with against another and seemingly now a more dangerous.

unable quite to repress the sentiment, he proceed immediately to

put it to his use. for we have no need to be scrupulously formal and

precise in the exposition of circumstance to a fellow who may thank the

star if such a girl condescend to give he a hearing. he have this idea

through the conception of his girl’s generosity. and furthermore, the

cognizant eye of a Lucretian Alma Mater have seat so strongly in

Victor, demand as a right an effusion of the promising amorous grace

on the part of the acceptable applicant to the post of husband of

that peerless. these be absent, evidently non-existent, it seem

sufficient for the present, after the fashion of the young gentleman, to

capitulate the few material matter briefly.



they be dot along with a fine disregard of the stateliness of the

sum to be settle on Nesta Victoria, and with a distant but burning wish

all the while, that the suitor have be one to touch his heart and open

it, inspirit it--as could have be do--to disclose for good and

all the thing utterable. victor love clear honesty, as he love light:

and though he hate to be accuse of not show a clean face in the

light, he would have be move and lift to confess to a spot by

the touch at his heart. Dudley Sowerby’s deficiency, however, be

outweigh by the palpable advantage of his birth, his prospect, and

his good repute for conduct; add thereto his gentlemanly manner. victor

sigh again over his poor Fredi; and in tell Mr. Sowerby that the

choice must be leave to she, he have the regret of a man aware of

his persuasive art and how they would be use, to think that he be

actually make the choice.



observe how fatefully he who have a scheme be the engine of it; he be no

long the man of his taste or of his principle; he be on a line of

rail for a terminus; and he may cast languish eye across

wayside to right and leave, he have doom himself to proceed, with a

self-devour hunger for the half desire; probably manhood go at

the embrace of it. this may be or not, but nature have decree to he the

forfeit of pleasure. she bid we count the passage of a sober day for

the service of the morrow; that be her system; and she would have

we adopt it, to keep in we the keen edge for cutting, which be the

guarantee of enjoyment: do otherwise, we lose ourselves in one or

other of the furious matrix instinct; we be blunt to all else.



Young Dudley fully agree that the choice must be with Miss Radnor;

he allude to her virtue, her accomplishment. he be wax to

fervidness. he say he must expect competitor; add, on a start,

that he be to say, from his mother, she, in the case of an intention to

present Miss Radnor at Court....



Victor wave hand for a finish, look as though, his head have come out

of hot water. he sacrifice Royalty to his necessity, under a kind of

sneer at its function: ‘Court! my girl? but the arduous duty be over

for the season. we be a democratic people retain the seduction of

monarchy, as a friend say; and of course a girl may like to count

among the flower of the kingdom for a day, in the list of Court

presentation; no harm. only there’s plenty of time... very young girl

have their head turn--though I don’t say, don’t imagine, my girl

would. by and by perhaps.’



Dudley be usher into Mr. Inchling’s room and introduce to the

figure-head of the Firm of inchling, Pennergate, and Radnor: a

respectable City merchant indeed, whom Dudley could read-off in a

glimpse of the downright contrast to his partner. he have hear casual

remark on the respectable City of London merchant from Colney Durance.

a short analytical gaze at he, help to an estimate of the power

of the man who keep he up. Mr. Inchling be a florid city-feaster,

descendant of a line of City merchant, have feature for a wife to

identify; as drover, they tell we, can single one from another of their

round-belly beast. formerly the leader of the Firm, he be now, after

dreary fit of restiveness, kicking, false prophecy of ruin, Victor’s

obedient cart-horse. he sigh in set term for the old day of the

Firm, when, like trout in the current, the Firm have only to gape for

shoal of good thing to fatten it: a tale of english prosperity in

quiescence; narrate interjectorily among the by-way of the City, and

want only metre to make it our national Poem.



Mr. Inchling do not deny that grand manger of golden oat be still

somehow constantly allot to he. his wife believe in Victor,

and deem the loss of the balance Pennergate a gain. since that

lamentable loss, Mr. Inchling, under the irony of circumstance the Tory

of Commerce, have trot and galloppe whither drive, race like mad

against his will and the rival nation now in the field to force the

pace; a name for enterprise; the close commercial connection of a man

who speculate--who, to put it plainly, live on his wit; hurry

onward and onward; always doubt, munching, grumble at satisfaction,

in perplexity of the gratitude which be apprehensive of black Nemesis at

a turn of the road,--to confound so wild a whip as Victor Radnor. he have

never forgive the youth’s venture in India of an enormous purchase

of Cotton many year back, and which he have repudiate, though not his

share of the hundred of thousand realize before the refusal to ratify

the bargain have come to Victor. Mr. Inchling date his first indigestion

from that disquieting period. he assent to the praise of Victor’s

genius, admit benefit; his heart refuse to pardon, and

consequently his head wholly to trust, the man who rob he of his

quondam comfortable feeling of security. and if you will imagine the

sprite of the aggregate English Taxpayer personify Steam as the

malignant who have despoil he of the blessed Safety-Assurance he once

have from his God Neptune against invader, you will comprehend the state

of Mr. Inchling’s mind in regard to his terrific and bountiful, but very

disturbing partner.



he thank heaven to his wife often, that he have nothing to do with

North american or south american mine and pasture or with South Africa

and, gold and diamond: and a wife must sometimes listen, master she

inward comparison. Dr. Schlesien have meet and meditate on this example

of the island energy. Mr. Inchling be not permit by his wife to be

much the guest of the Radnor household, because of the frequent meeting

there with Colney Durance; Colney’s humour for satire be instantly in

bristle at sight of his representative of English City merchant:

‘over whom,’ as he write of the venerable body, ‘the disciplined and

instruct Germans not deviously march; whom acute and adventurous

Americans, with half a cock of the eye in pass, compassionately

outstrip.’ he and Dr. Schlesien agree upon Mr. Inchling. meantime

the latter gentleman do his part at the table of the wealthy City

Companies, and retain his appearance of health; he be begin to

think, upon a calculation of the increase treasure of those company

and the country, that we, the Taxpayer, ought not to leave it altogether

to Providence to defend they; notwithstanding the watchful care of we

hitherto show by our briny Providence, to save we from anxiety and

expense. but there be, he say, ‘difficulty’; and the very word

could stop he, as commonly when our difficulty lie in the exercise of

think.



Victor’s african room, contain large wall-map of auriferous region,

be inspect; and another, where clerk be busy over miscellaneous

Continents. Dudley Sowerby hope he might win the maiden.



he and Victor walk in company Westward. the shop of Boyle and

Luckwort, chemist, be not pass on this occasion. Dudley grieve that

he have to be absent from the next Concert for practise, owe to his

engagement to his mother to go down to the family seat near Tunbridge

Wells. Victor mention his relative, the Duvidney maiden lady,

reside near the Wells. they measure the distance between Cronidge and

Moorsedge, the two house, as for half an hour on horseback.



Nesta tell her father at home that the pair of they have be observe

confidentially arm in arm, and converse so profoundly.



‘who, do you think, be the topic?’ Victor ask.



she would not chase the little blue butterfly of a guess.









CHAPTER XIX. TREATS of NATURE and CIRCUMSTANCE and the dissension

between they and of a SATIRIST’S MALIGNITY in the direction of his

country



there be at time in the heart of all man of active life a vivid wild

moment or two of dramatic dialogue between the veteran antagonist,

Nature and Circumstance, when they, whose business it should be to be

joyfully one, furiously split; and the Dame be up with her shrill

querulousness to inquire of her offspring, for the distinct original

motive of his conduct. why do he bring she to such a pass! and what be

the gain? if he be not an alienated issue of the great Mother, he will

strongly incline to her view, that he put himself into harness to join

with a machine go the dead contrary way of her welfare; and thereby

write himself donkey, for his present reading. soldier, hero, even

the braid, even the wearer of the gay cock’s feather, who get

the honour and the pocket-piece, know the moment of her electrical

eloquence. they have no answer for she, save an index at the machine

push they on yet far under the enemy’s line of fire, where they

pluck the golden wreath or the livid, and in either case listen no more.

they glorify her top wisdom while on the march to confound it.

she be wise in her way. but, it be ask by the disputant, if we have

follow she exclusively, how far should we have travel from our

starting-point? we of the world and its prize and duty must do she

an injury to make her tongue musical to we, and her argument worthy of

attention. so it seem. how to keep the proper balance between those two

testy old wrangler, that rarely pull the right way together, be as much

the task for man in the grip of the world, as for the wanton youthful

fry under dominion of their instinct; and probably, when it be do,

man will have attain the golden age of his retirement from service.



why be scheme? Victor ask. unlike the gallant soldiery, his question

be raise in the blush of a success, from an examination of the

quality of the thing win; although it have not change since it be first

coveted; it be demonstrably the same: and an astonishing dry stick

he hold, as a reward for perpetual agitation and perversion of his

natural taste. here be a Dudley Sowerby, the direct issue of the

conception of Lakelands; if indeed they be not conceive together

in one; and the young gentleman have moral character, good citizen

substance, and station, rank, prospect of a title; and the grasp of he

be firm. yet so far be it from hearty, that when hear a profess

satirist like Colney Durance remark on the decorous manner of Dudley’s

transparent courtship of the girl, under his look of an awaken

approval of himself, that he appear to be ask everybody:--Do you

not think I bid fair for an excellent father of Philistines?--Victor have

a nip of spite at the thought of Dudley’s drag he bodily to be the

grandfather. poor Fredi, too!--necessarily the mother: condemn by

her hard fate to feel proud of philistine baby! though woman soon get

reconcile to it! or do they? they do once. what if his Fredi turn

out one of the modern young woman, who have drink of idea? he catch

himself speculate on that, as on a danger. the alliance with Dudley

really seem to set he face backward.



Colney might not have be under prompt of Nataly when he deride

Dudley; but Victor be at war with the picture of she, in her

compression of a cruel laugh, while her eyelid be hard shut, as if to

exclude the young patriarch of Philistines’ ridiculous image.



he hearken to the Nature interrogate he, why have he step on a

path to put division between himself and his beloved?--the small

of gap; and still the very small between nuptial lover be a

division--and that may become a mortal wound to their one-life. why

have he rouse a slumber world? glimpse of the world’s nurse-like,

old-fashioned, mother-nightcap benevolence to its kicking favourite;

its long-suffer tolerance for the heroic breaker of its rough-cast

law, while the decent curtain continue drop, or lift only

ankle-high; together with many scene, lively suggestion, of the

choice of way he like well, tell of thing, which be well thing,

incomprehensibly forfeit. so that the plain sense of value insist on

more than one weighing of the gain in hand: a dubious measure.



he be as little disposed to reject it as to stop his course at a

goal of his aim. nevertheless, a gain thus poorly estimate, could not

command he to do a deed of humiliation on account of it. the speaking

to this dry young Dudley be not imperative at present. a word would do

in the day to come.



Nataly be busy with her purchase of furniture, and the practise for

the great August Concert. he deal her liberal encouragement, up to the

verge of Dr. Themison’s late hum word touch Mrs. Burman, from

which he jump in alarm lest he should paralyze she again: the dear

soul’s dread aspect of an earthy pallor be a spectre behind her

cheek, ready to rush forth. Fenellan bring Carling to dine with he;

and Themison be confirm by Carting, with incident in proof; cane

by Jarniman, also with incident; one very odd one--or so it seem, in

the fury of the first savour of it:--she inform Jarniman, Skepsey say

his friend Jarniman say, that she have dream of make her appearance

to he on the night of the 23rd August, and of set the date on the

calendar over his desk, when she enter his room: ‘sitting-room, not

bedroom; she be always quite the lady,’ Skepsey report his Jarniman.

Mrs. Burman, as a ghost, would respect herself; she would keep to her

character. Jarniman quite expect the dream to be verify; she be

a woman of her word: he believe she have receive a revelation of the

approach fact: he be prepare for the scene.



Victor have to keep silent and discourse of general prosperity. his happy

vivaciousness assist he to feel it by day. Nataly hear he at night,

on a moan: ‘poor soul!’ and loudly once while perform an abrupt

demi-vault from back to side: ‘perhaps now!’ in a voice through door.

she school herself to breathe equably.



not be allow to impart the distressing dose of comfort he be

charge with, he swallow it himself; and these be the consequence.

and an uneasy sleep be traditionally a matter for grave debate in the

Radnor family. the Duvidney lady, Dorothea and Virginia, would have

cite ancestral name, show it to be the bad of intimation. at

night, lie on his back beneath a weight of darkness, one heavily

crape figure, distinguishable through the gloom, as a blot on a black

pad, accuse the answer darkness within he, until his mind

be drag to go through the whole case by morning light; and the

compassionate man appeal to common sense, to stamp and pass his

delectable sophistry; as, that it be his intense humaneness, which

expose he to an accusation of inhumanity; his prayer for the truly

good to happen, which anticipate Mrs. Burman’s expiry. they be simple

sophistry, fabricate to suit his need, readily take and bear

the imprimatur of common sense. they refresh he, as a chemical scent

a crowded room.



all because he could not open his breast to Nataly, by reason of she

feebleness; or feel enthusiasm in the possession of young Dudley! a

dry stick indeed beside he on the walk Westward. good quality wood, no

doubt, but dry, varnish for conventional use. poor dear Fredi would

have to crown it like the May-day posy of the urchin of Craye Farm and

Creckholt!



Dudley wish the great city-merchant to appreciate he as a diligent

student of commercial matter: rivalry of bank; Foreign and Municipal

Loans, American Rails, and Argentine; new company of wholesome

appearance or sinister; or start with a dram in the stomach, or bear

to bleat prostrate, like sheep on their back in a ditch; trust and

founder; brewery burst vat upon the market, and England

prone along the gutter, gobble, drunk for share, and sober in the

possession of certain of they. but when, as Colney say, a grateful

England have confer the Lordship on her Brewer, he gratefully

hand-over the establishment to his country; and both may disregard the

howl of a Salvation Army of shareholders.--Beaten by the Germans in

Brewery, too! Dr. Schlesien have his right to crow. we be ahead of

they, and they come and study we, and they study Chemistry as well;

while we go on down our happy-go-lucky old road; and then have to hire

their young professor, and then to import their beer.



have the Germans more brain than we English? victor’s blood up to the

dome of his cranium knock the patriotic negative. but, as old Colney

say (and bother he, for constantly intrude!), the comfortably

successful have the habit of sitting, and that dull the brain yet more

than it ease the person: hence be we outpace; we have now to know

we be race. victor score a mark for one of his project. a

well-conduct Journal of the sharp pen in the land might, at a

sacrifice of money grandly sink, expose to his English how and to what

degree their sport, and their fierce feasting, and their opposition to

idea, and their timidity in regard to change, and their execration of

criticism apply to themselves, and their unanimous adoption of it

for a weapon against other, be sign of a prolonged indulgence in the

cushion seat. victor see it. but would the people he love? he

agree with Colney, forget the satirist’s venom: to-wit; that the

journalist should be close under their editor’s rod to put it in sound

bold English;--no metaphor, no simile, nor flowery insubstantiality:

but honest Saxon manger stuff: and put it repeatedly, in contempt of the

disgust of iteration; hammer so a soft place on the anglican skull,

which be rub in consequence, and teach at last through soreness

to reflect.--A Journal?--with Colney Durance for Editor?--and

call conformably the whipping-TOP? why not, if it exactly hit the

signification of the Journal and that which it would have the country do

to itself, to keep it go and truly top? for there be no vulgarity

in a title strongly signify the intent. Victor write it at night,

name Colney for Editor, with a sum of his money to be devoted to the

publication, in a form of memorandum; and throw it among the paper in

his desk.



Young Dudley have a funny inquisitiveness about Dartrey Fenellan; owe

to Fredi’s reproduction or imitation of her mother’s romantic sentiment

for Dartrey, doubtless: a bit of jealousy, indicate that the dry

fellow have his feeling. victor touch--off an outline of Dartrey’s

history and character:--the half-brother of Simeon, considerably

young, and totally different. ‘Dartrey’s mother be Lady Charlotte

Kiltorne, one of the Clanconans; well mother than wife, perhaps; and

no reproach on she, not a shadow; only she make the General’s Bank-note

fly black paper. and--if you ‘re for heredity--the queer point be,

that Simeon, whose mother be a sober-minded woman, have always be the

spendthrift. Dartrey marry one of the Hennen woman, all an odd lot,

all handsome. I meet she once. Colney say, she come up here with a

special commission from the Prince of Darkness. there be woman who stir

the unholy in man--whether they mean it or not, you know.’



Dudley purse to remark, that he could not say he do know. and good for

Fredi if he do not know, and have his objection to the knowledge! but

he be like the man who escape cold by wrap in comforter instead

of trust to the spin of the blood.



‘she play poor Dartrey prank before he bury--he, behave well to

she; and that say much for he; he have: a devil of a temper. I ‘ve see

the blood in his vein, mount to cracking. but there’s the man: because

she be a woman, he never let it break out with she. and, by heaven,

he have cause. she couldn’t be leave. she trick he, and she love

him-passionately, I believe. you don’t understand woman love the

husband they drag through the mire?’



Dudley do not. he sharpen his mouth.



‘bury, you say, sir?--a widower?’



‘I’ve no positive information; we shall hear when he: come back,’

Victor reply hurriedly. ‘he get a drenching of all the damn in the

british service from his. Generalissimo one day at a Review, for a

trooper’s negligence-button or stock miss, or something; and off go

Dartrey to his hut, and break his sword, and send in his resignation.

good soldier lose. and I cann’t complain; he have be a right-hand man to

I over in Africa. but a man ought to have some control of his temper,

especially a soldier.’



Dudley put emphasis into his acquiescence.



‘worse than that temper of Dartrey’s, he cann’t forgive an injury. he

bear a grudge against his country. you’ve hear Colney Durance abuse

old England. it’s three part factitious-literary exercise. it ‘s milk

beside the contempt of Dartrey’s shrug. he think we’re a dead people,

if a people; “subsist on our fat,” as Colney say.’



‘I be not of opinion that we show it,’ observe Dudley.



‘we don’t,’ Victor agree. he disrelishe his companion’s mince tone

of a monumental security, and yearn for Dartrey or Simeon or Colney to

be at his elbow rather than this most commendable of orderly citizen,

who little imagine the treacherous revolt from he in the bosom of the

gentleman cordially signify full agreement. but Dudley be not gift

to read behind word and look.



they be in the Park of the dwindle press of carriage, and here be

this young Dudley say, quite commendably: ‘it’s a pity we seem to

have no mean of keep our park select.’



Victor fling Simeon Fenellan at he in thought. he remember a fable of

Fenellan’s, about a Society of the Blest, and the salt it be to they to

discover an intruder from below, and the consequent accelerated measure

in their hymning.



‘have you see anything offensive to you?’ he ask.



‘one see notorious person.’



Dudley speak aloof from them--‘out of his cold attic,’ Fenellan would

have say.



Victor approve: with the deaden feeling common to we when first in

sad earnest we consent to take life as it be.



he perceive, too, the comicality of his have to resign himself to the

fatherly embrace of goodness.



lakeland have he fast, and this young Dudley be the kernel of

Lakelands. if he have only be intellectually a little flexible in his

morality! but no; he wear it cap a pie, like a mediaeval knight his

armour. one have to approve. and there be no get away from he. he

be good enough to stay in town for the practise of the opening overture

of the amateur, and the flute-duet, when his family be look for

he at Tunbridge Wells; and almost every day Victor be waylay by he

at a corner of the Strand.



occasionally, Victor appear at the point of interception arm

with Colney Durance, for whom he have call in the Temple, bent on

self-defence, although Colney be often as bitter to his taste as to

Dudley’s. Latterly the bitter have become a tonic. we rejoice in the

presence of goodness, let we hope; and still an impersonation of

conventional, goodness perpetually about us depress. Dudley drive

he to Colney for relief. besides it please Nataly that he should be

bring Colney home; it look to she as if he be subject Dudley

to critical inspection before he decide a certain question much, and

foolishly, dread by the dear soul. that quiet she. and another

thing, she like he to be with Colney, for a clog on he; as it be, a

tuning-fork for the wild air he start. a little pessimism, also, she

seem to like; probably as an appeasement after hearing, and have

to share, high flight. and she be, in her queer woman’s way, always

reassure by his endurance of Colney’s company:--she read it to mean,

that he could bear Colney’s perusal of he, and satiric sting. victor

have see these petty matter among the various which be make to serve

his double and treble purpose; now, thank to the operation of young

Dudley within he, he feel they. Preferring Fenellan’s easy humour to

Colney’s acid, he be nevertheless brace by the latter’s antidote to

Dudley, while reserve his entire opposition in the abstract.



for Victor Radnor and Colney Durance be the Optimist and Pessimist of

their society. they might have head those tribe in the country. at a

period when the omnibus of the world appear to its quaint occupant

to be go fast, man be shake into the acceptation, if not

performance, of one part or the other as it be dictate to they by their

temperament. compose the part, and you come nigh to the meaning of

the Nineteenth Century: the mother of these gosling affirmative and

negative divorce from harmony and awaken by the slight increase

of incubate motion to vitality. Victor and Colney have be champion

duellist for the rosy and the saturnine since the former cheerfully

slave for a small stipend in the City of his affection, and the latter

enter on an inheritance count in niggard hundred, that withdraw

a briefless barrister dispose for scholarship from the forlornest

of seat in the Courts. they have foretell of one another each the

unfulfilled; each claim the actual as the child of his prediction.

Victor be to have be ruin long back; Colney the prey of independent

bachelor. Colney have escape his harpy, and Victor could be call a

millionaire and more. Prophesy be crown by Colney’s dyspepsia, by

Victor’s ticklish domestic position. their pity for one another, their

warm regard, be genuine; only, they be of different temperament;

and we have to distinguish, that in many estimable and some gifted human

creature, it be the quality of the blood which direct the current of

opinion.



Victor play-off Colney upon Dudley, for his internal satisfaction, and

to lull Nataly and make she laugh; but he could not, as she hope he

be do, take Colney into his confidence; inasmuch as the Optimist,

impel by his exuberant anticipatory trustfulness, be an author, and

do thing; whereas the Pessimist be your chair critic, with the

delivery of a censor, generally an undoer of thing. our Optimy have

his instinct to tell he of the cast of Pessimy’s countenance at the

confession of a dilemma-foresee! he hand himself to Pessimy, as it

be a sugar-cane, for the sour brute to suck the sugar and whack

with the wood. but he cannot perform his part in return; he get no

compensation: Pessimy be invulnerable. you waste your time in hurl a

common ‘tu-quoque’ at one who hug the bad.



the three walking in the park, with their bright view, and black view,

and neutral view of life, be a comical trio. they have come upon the

day of the unfanned electric furnace, proper to London’s early August

when it be not pipe March. Victor complacently bear heat as well as

cold: but young Dudley be a drought, and Colney a drug to refresh it;

and why be he stew in London? it be for this young Dudley, who

resemble a London of the sparrowy roadway and wearisome pavement and

block of fortress mansion, by chance a water-cart spirt a stale

water: or a London of the farewell dinner-party, where London’s

profess anecdotist lay the dust with his ten time tell: why be not

Nataly relieve of her dreary round of the purchase of furniture! they

ought all now to be in Switzerland or Tyrol. Nesta have of late be

turn over leave of an illustrated book of Tyrol, dear to she after

a run through the Innthal to the Dolomites one splendid August; and she

and Nataly have read there of Hofer, Speckbacker, Haspinger; and wrath

have fill they at the meanness of the Corsican, who pose after it

as victim on St. Helena’s rock; the scene in grey dawn on Mantua’s

fortress-wall blast he in the Courts of History, when he strike

for his pathetic sublime.



Victor remember how he have be rhetorical, as the mouthpiece of

his darling. but he have in memory prominently now the many glorious

picture of that mountain-land beckoning to he, wave he to fly forth

from the London oven:--lo, the tyrolese limestone crag with livid peak

and snow lining shelf and vein of the crevice; and fold of pinewood

undulation close by a shoulder of snow large on the blue; and a

dazzle pinnacle rise over green pasture-Alps, the head of it

shoot aloft as the blown billow, high off a broken ridge, and

wide-armed in its pure white shroud beneath; trance, but all motion in

immobility, to the heart in the eye; a splendid image of strive, up to

crown victory. and see the long valley-sweep of the hang meadow

and maize, and low vineyard and central tall green spire! walk

beside young Dudley, converse, observe too, Victor follow the

trip and twist of a rill, that be lure a little far down through

scoop, duct, and scaffold channel to serve a wainwright.



he hear the mountain-song of the joyful water: a wren-robin-thrush on

the dance down of a faun; till it be catch and mute, and the silver

foot slide along the channel, swift as moonbeam through a cloud, with an

air of ‘whither you will, so it be on’; happy for service as in freedom.

then the yard of the inn below, and the rillwater twirl round

through the trout-trough, subdue, still lively for its beloved onward:

due to business, due to pleasure; a wedding of the two, and the wise

on earth:-eh? like some one we know, and Nataly have make the comparison.

fresh forellen for lunch: rhyme to Fenellan, he have say to she; and

that recollection strike the day to blaze; for his friend be a ruin

military captain live on a literary quill at the time; and Nataly’s

tender pleading, ‘could you not help to give he another chance, dear

Victor?’--signifying her absolute trust in his ability to do that or

more or anything, have actually set he think of the Insurance Office;

which he start to prosperity, and Fenellan in it, previously an

untutored rill of the mountain, if ever be one.



useless to be dwell on holiday picture: lakeland have hold of he!



Colney or somebody say, that the great our success, the great the

slave we become.--But we must have an aim, my friend, and success must

be the aim of any aim!--Yes, and, say Colney, you be to rejoice in the

disappointing miss, which save you from be damn by your bullet on

the centre.--You’re dead against Nature, old Colney.--That be to carry

the flag of Liberty.--By clip a limb!



Victor overcome the Pessimist in his own royal cranium-Court. he

entertain a pronounced dissension with bachelor pretend to

independence. it could not be argue publicly, and the more the

pity:--for a slight encouragement, he would have do it: his

outlook over the wave of bachelor and (by present condition mostly

constrain) spinster--and another outlook, midnight upon Phlegethon to

the thought of man, make he deem it urgent. and it help the plea in

his own excuse, as Colney point out to the son of Nature. that, he

have to admit, be true. he charge it upon Mrs. Burman, for twist the

most unselfish and noblest of his thought; and he promise himself

it be to cease on the instant when the circumstance, which nature be

remiss in not bring about to-day or to-morrow, have come to pass. he

could see his Nataly’s pain endurance beneath her habitual submission.

her effort be a poor one, to conceal her dread of the day of the

gathering at Lakelands.



on the Sunday previous to the day, Dr. Themison accompany the

amateur by rail to Wrensham, to hear ‘trial of the acoustic’ of the

Concert-hall. they be a goodly company; and there be fun in the

railway-carriage over Colney’s description of Fashionable London’s vast

octopus Malady-monster, who be let the doctor fly to the tether of

its long filament for an hour, ply sucker on he the while. he

have the look, to general perception, of a man but half-escape: and as

when the note of thing take by the vision in front be be set down

upon tablet in the head behind. victor observe his look at Nataly. the

look be like a door aswe, reveal in conceal. she be not or do

not appear strike by it; perhaps, if observant, she take it for a busy

professional gentleman’s holiday reckoning of the hour before the

return train to his harness, and his arrangement for catch it. she

be, as she could be on a day of trial, her enchant majestic self

again--defy suspicion. she be his true mate for breast a world

honour in uplift she.



her singing of a duet with Nesta, call forth Dr. Themison’s very warm

applause. he name the great of contraltos. Colney do well service

than Fenellan at the luncheon-table: he divert Nataly and capture

Dr. Themison’s ear with the narrative of his momentous expedition of

European Emissaries, to plead the cause of their several language at

the Court of Japan: a Satiric Serial tale, that hit incidentally the

folly of the country of Europe, and intentionally, one have to think,

those of Old England. Nesta set he go. just when he be about

to begin, she make her father laugh by cry out in a rapture, ‘oh!

Delphica!’ for she be naughtily aware of Dudley Sowerby’s distaste for

the story and disgust with the damsel Delphica.



Nesta give Dr. Themison the preliminary sketch of the grand object of

the expedition: indeed one of the eminent one of the world; matter

for an Epic; though it be to be fear, that our part in it will not

encourage a Cis-atlantic bard. to America the honour from begin to

end belong.



so, then, Japan have decide to renounce its language, for the adoption

of the language it may choose among the foremost famous european

tongue. Japan become the word for miraculous transformation of a

whole people at the stroke of a wand; and let our English enrol it as

the most precious of the powerful verb. an envoy visit the principal

seat of Learning in Europe. he be of a gravity to match that of his

unexampled and all but stupefy mission. a fluent linguist, yet an

Englishman, the slight american accent contract during a lengthened

residence in the United States be no bar to the patriotism urge he

to pay his visit of exposition and invitation from the japanese Court

to the distinguished Doctor of Divinity Dr. Bouthoin. the renown of Dr.

Bouthoin among the learn of Japan have cause the special invitation to

he; a scholar endow by an ample knowledge and persuasive eloquence to

cite and instance as well as illustrate the superior advantage to Japan

and civilization in the filial embrace of mother English. ‘for to this

it must come predestinate,’ say the astonishing applicant. ‘we seem

to see a fitness in it,’ say the cogitative Rev. Doctor. ‘and an Island

England in those water, will do wonder for Commerce,’ add the former.

‘we think of thing more pregnant,’ conclude the latter, with a dry

gleam of ecclesiastical knowingness. and let the Editor of the Review

upon his recent pamphlet, and let the prelate reprimand he, and let

the newspaper criticize his pure Saxon, have a care!



fund, universally the most convincing of credential, be place at

Dr. Bouthoin’s disposal: only it be request, that for the present the

expedition be secret. ‘well so,’ say pure Saxon’s champion. on a

day patent for secresy, and swear-in the whole American Continent

through the cable to keep the secret by declare the patent, the Rev.

Dr. Bouthoin, accompany by his curate, the Rev. Mancate Semhians,

stumble across portmanteaux cram with lexicon and dictionary and

other tube of the voice of Hermes, take possession of berth in

the ship Polypheme, bind, as they mutually conceive, for the big

adventure ever embark on by a far-thoughte, high-thoughte, patriotic

pair speak pure Saxon or other.



Colney, with apology to his hearer, avoid the custom of our period

(call the Realistic) to create, when casual opportunity offer, a

belief in the narrative by promote nausea in the audience. he pass

under veil the Rev. Doctor’s acknowledgement of Neptune’s power, and the

temporary collapse of Mr. Semhians. proceed at once to the comment

of these high-class missionary on the really curious inquisitiveness

of certain of the foreign passenger on board, he introduce to they

the indisputably learn, the very argumentative, crash, arrogant,

pedantic, dogmatic, philological german gentleman, Dr. Gannius, reeking

of the Teutonic Professor, as a library volume of its leather. with he

be his fairhaired artless daughter Delphica. an interesting couple for

the beguilement of a voyage: she so beautifully moderate his irascible

incisiveness! yet there be a strange tone that they have. what, then,

of the polite, the anecdotic Gallic M. Falarique, who studiously engage

the young lady in colloquy when Mr. Semhians be agitate outside they

to say a word? what of that outpouring, explosive, equally voluble,

uncontrolled M. Bobinikine, a Mongol Russian, shape, featured, hue

like the pot-boil, round and tight young dumpling of our primitive

boyhood, which smoke on the dish from the pot? and what of another,

hitherto unnoticed, whose nose be of the hooked vulturine, whose name

transpire as Pisistratus Mytharete? he hear Dr. Bouthoin declaim some

line of Homer, and beseech he for the designation of that language.

Greek, be it? greek of the asiatic ancient day of the beginning of

the poetic chant? Dr. Gannius crash cachinnation. Dr. Bouthoin cap

himself with the offended Don. Mr. Semhians open half an eye and a

whole mouth. there must be a mystery, these two exclaim to one another

in privacy. Delphica draw Mr. Semhians aside.



blush over his white necktie, like the coast of Labrador at the

transient wink of its Jack-in-the-box Apollo, Mr. Semhians faintly tell

of a conversation he have have with the ingenuous fair one; and she ardent

as he for the throning of our incomparable Saxon English in the mouth

of the race of mankind. Strange!--she partly suspect the Frenchman,

the Russian, the attentive silent Greek, to be all of they bind for the

Court of Japan. concurrent? can it be? we be absolutely to enter on

a contention with rival? Dr. Bouthoin speak to Dr. Gannius. he be

astonish, he say; he could not have imagine it!



‘have you ever imagine anything?’ Dr. Gannius ask he. Entomologist,

botanist, palaeontologist, philologist, and at sound of horn a ready

regimental corporal, Dr. Gannius wear good manner as a pair of

bath-slipper, to rally and kick his old infant of an Englishman; who,

in awe of his later renown and manifest might, make it a point of

discretion to be ultra-amiable; for he certainly be not in training, he

have no alliance, and he must diplomatize; and the German be a strong

one; a relative too; he be the Saxon’s cousin, to say the least.

this German have the habit of push past politeness to carry his

argumentative war into the enemy’s country: and he present on all side

a solid rampart of recent great deed do, and mail readiness for the

doing of more, if we think of assail he in that way. we be really

like the poor beast which have cast their shell or case, helpless

flesh to his beak. so we be cousinly.



whether more amused than amazed, we know not, Dr. Gannius hear from

‘our simpleton of the pasture,’ as he call the Rev. Doctor to his

daughter, that he and Mr. Semhians have absolutely push forth

upon this most mighty of enterprise naked of any backing from their

government! babe in the wood that they be! ‘a la grace de dieu’

at every turn that cry for astutia, they show no sign or symbol of

english arm behind they, to support--and with the grandest of national

prize in view!--the plead oration before the Court of the elect,

erudite, we will call they, of an intelligent, yet half barbarous,

people; hesitate, these, between eloquence and rival eloquence,

cunning and rival cunning. why, in such a case, the shadow-nimbus of

Force be need to decide the sinking of the scale. but have these

English never read their Shakespeare, that they show so barren an

acquaintance with human, to say nothing of semi-barbaric, nature? but

it be here that we german prove our claim to be the son of his

mind.--Dr. Gannius, in contempt, throw off the mask: he also be a

concurrent. and not only be he the choose by election of the chief

Universities of his land, he have behind he, as Athene dilate

Achilles, the clench fist of the Prince of thunder and lightning of

his time. german, Japan shall be! he publicly swear before they all.

M. Falarique damascene his sharp smile; M. Bobinikine double-dimple

his pudding; M. Mytharete roll a forefinger over his beak; Dr.

Bouthoin enlarge his eye on a sunny mote. and such be the masterful

effect of a frank diplomacy, that when one party show his hand, the

other find the reverse of concealment in hide their own.



Dr. Bouthoin and Mr. Semhians be compel to suspect themselves to be

encompass with rival, presumptively support by their government.

the worthy gentleman have hope to tumble into good fortune, as in the

bless old English manner. ‘it have even be thus with we: unhelped we

do it!’ exclaim the Rev. Doctor. he be rouse from dejection by hear

Mr. Semhians shyly (he have publish verse) tell of the fairtresse

Delphica’s phosphorial enthusiasm for our galaxy of British Poets.

assist by Mr. Semhians, he begin to imagine, that he have, in the

person of this artless devotee an ally, who will, through her worship

of our poet (by treachery to her sire-a small matter) sacrifice her

guttural tongue, by enable he (through the exercise of her art,

charm, intrigue--also a small matter) to obtain the first audience

of the japanese erudite. Delphica, with each of the rival in turn,

be very pretty Comedy. she be aware that M. Falarique be her most

redoubtable adversary, by the time that the vast fleet of steamboat

(contain newspaper reporter) be beheld from the deck of the

Polypheme puff past Sandy Hook.



there Colney leave they, for the next instalment of the serial.



Nesta glance at Dudley Sowerby. she like he for his pained frown at

the part his countryman be make to play, but do wish that he would

keep from express it in a countenance that suggest a worried knot;

and mischievously she say: ‘do you take to Delphica?’



he reply, with an evident sincerity, ‘I cannot say I do.’



have Mr. Semhians be model on he?



‘one bet on the German, of course--with Colney Durance,’ Victor say to

Dr. Themison, lead he over the ground of Lakelands.



‘in any case, the author teach we to feel an interest in the rival. I

want to know what come of it,’ say the doctor.



‘there’s a good opportunity, one see. but, mark I, it will all end in

satire upon poor Old England. accord to Colney, we excel in nothing.’



‘I do not think there be a country that could offer the entertainment

for which I be indebted to you to-day.’



‘ah, my friend, and you like their voice? the contralto?’



‘exquisite.’



Dr. Themison have not speak the name of Radnor.



‘shall we see you at our next Concert-evening in town?’ say Victor;

and hear ‘the privilege’ mention, his sharp bright gaze clear to

limpid. ‘you have see how it stand with we here!’ at once he relate

what indeed Dr. Themison have begin speculatively to think might be the

case.



Mrs. Burman Radnor have drop word touch a husband, and of her

desire to communicate with he, in the event of she be give over to

the surgeon: she have say, that her husband be a greatly gifted

man; set her head in a compassionate swing. this revelation of the

husband soon after, be fill. and this Mr. Radnor’s comrade’s manner

of it, be win: a not too self-justify tone; not void of feel

for the eld woman; with a manly eulogy of the young, who have fling

away the world for he and bear he their one dear child. Victor take

the blame wholly upon himself. ‘it be right that you should know,’ he

say to the doctor’s thoughtful posture; and he stress the blame;

and a flame shoot across his eyeball. he bring home to his hearer the

hurricane of a man he be in the passion: indicate the subjection

of such a temperament as this Victor Radnor’s to trial of the moral

restraint beyond his human power.



Dr. Themison say: ‘would you--we postpone that as long as we can: but

suppose the poor lady...?’



Victor break in: ‘I see her wish: I will.’



the clash of his answer ring beside Dr. Themison’s falter query.



we be grateful when spare the conclusion of a sentence bear to

stammer. if for that only, the doctor press Victor’s hand warmly.



‘I may, then, convey some form of assurance, that a request of the kind

will be grant?’ he say.



‘she have but to call I to she,’ say Victor, stiffen his back.









CHAPTER XX. the great ASSEMBLY AT LAKELANDS



round the neighbourhood of Lakelands it be know that the day of the

great gathering there have be authoritatively foretell as fine, by

Mr. Victor Radnor; and he deliver his prophecy in the tooth of

the south-western gale familiar to our yachting month; and he really

inspire belief or a kind of trust; some suppose he to draw from

reserve of observation, some choose to confide in the singularly

wing sparkle of his eye. Lady Rodwell Blachington do; and young Mrs.

Blathenoy; and Mrs. Fanning; they be enamour of it. and when woman

stand for Hope, and any worship man for Promise, nothing less than

redouble confusion of he dissolve the union. even then they cling to

it, under an ejaculation, that it might and should have be otherwise;

fancy partly have it otherwise, in her caerulean home above the weeping.

so it be good at all point to prophecy with the aspect of the radiant

day foretold.



a storm, bear battle overhead, tear the night to piece. Nataly’s

faith in the pleasant prognostic waver beneath the crash. she have

not much power of heart to desire anything save that which her bosom

disavow. Uproar rather appease she, calmness agitated. she wish

she beloved to be spare from a disappointment, think he deserve all

success, because of the rigour inflict by her present tonelessness

of blood and be. her unresponsive manner with he be not due to lack

of fire in the blood or a loss of tenderness. the tender feeling, under

privation unwillingly impose, though willingly share, now suffuse

her reflection, owe to a gratitude induce by a novel experience of

he; know, as it may chance, and as it do not always chance, to both

sex in wed intimacy here and there; know to woman whose mate be

prove quick to compliance with delicate intuition of their mood of

nature. a constant, almost visible, image of the dark thing she desire,

and be bind not to desire, and be remorseful for desire, oppress

she; a perpetual consequent warfare of her spirit and the nature subject

to the thousand sensational hypocrisy invoke for concealment of its

revile brutish baseness, hold the woman suspend from her emotion.

she coldly feel that a caress would have melt she, would have be

the temporary rapture. coldly she have the knowledge that the considerate

withholding of it help her spirit to escape a stain. less coldly, she

thank at heart her beloved, for be a gentleman in their yoke. it

plight they over flesh.



he talk to she on the pillow, just a few sentence; and, unlike

himself, a word of City affair: ‘that fellow Blathenoy, with his

increase multitude of bill at the Bank: must watch he there, sit

there regularly. one rather like his wife. by the way, if you see he

near I to-morrow, praise the spanish climate; don’t forget. he head

the subscription list of Lady Blachington’s Charity.’



Victor chuckle at Colney’s humping of shoulder and mouth, while

the temp seem echo a sulphurous pessimist. ‘if old Colney have

listen to I, when India give proof of the metal and South Africa

begin heave, he’d have be a fairly wealthy man by now... ha! it

would have genialize he. a man may be a curmudgeon with money: the

rule be for he to cuddle himself and take a side, instead of dash at

his countryman all round and getting hate. well, Colney popular, cann’t

be imagine; but entertain guest would have dilute his acid. he

have the six hundred or so a year he start old bachelor on; add his

miserable pay for essay. literature! of course, he sour. but don’t

let I hear of bachelor moralist. there he sit at his Temple Chambers

hatch epigram... pretend to have the office of critic! honest old

fellow, as far as his condition permit. I tell he it will be fine

to-morrow.’



‘you be generally right, dear,’ Nataly say.



her drop breath be audible.



Victor smartly commend she to slumber, with heaven’s blessing on she

and a dose of soft nursery prattle.



he squeeze her hand. he kiss her lip by day. she hear he sigh

settle himself into the breast of night for milk of sleep, like one of

the world’s good child. she could have turn to he, to show he she

be in harmony with the holy night and love world, but for the fear

found on a knowledge of the man he be; it hold she frozen to the

semblance of a tombstone lady beside her lord, in the aisle where horror

kindle pitchy blackness with its legion at one movement. verily it be

the ghost of Mrs. Burman come to the bed, between they.



meanwhile the sun of Victor Radnor’s popularity be already up over the

extend circle likely to be drench by a falsification of his daring

augury, though the scud fly swift, and the beech rave, and the oak

roar and snarl, and pine-tree fall their length. fine tomorrow, to

a certainty! he have be hear to say. the doubt weigh for something;

the balance incline with the gentleman who have become so popular: for

he have do the trick so suddenly, like a stroke of the wizard; and be

a real man, not one of your spangled zodiacs sell for sixpence and

hop to a lucky hit, laugh at nine time out of ten. the reasoning

go--and it somewhat affect the mansion as well as the cottage,--that

if he have become popular in this astonishing fashion, after make one

of the big fortune of modern time, he might, he must, have secret

gift. ‘you cann’t foretell weather!’ cry a pothouse sceptic. but the

workman at Lakelands declare that he have foretell it. sceptic among

the common folk be quaintly silence by other tale of he, be a

whiff from the delirium attend any mention of his name.



how have he become suddenly so popular as to rouse in the mind of Mr.

Caddis, the sit Member for the division of the county (say to

have the seat in his pocket), a particular inquisitiveness to know the

bearing of his politic? Mr. Radnor be rich, true: but these be day

when wealthy man, ambitious of notoriety, do not always prove faithful

to their class; some of they be cunning to bid for the suffrage of the

irresponsible, recklessly enfranchised, corruptible masse. Mr. Caddis,

if he have the seat in his pocket, have it from the support of a class

trust he to support its interest: he could count on the landowner,

on the clergy, on the retired or retire or comfortably cushion

merchant resident about Wrensham, on the many obsequious among

electoral shopman; annually he throw open his ground, and he

subscribe, patronize, do what be expect; and he be not popular;

he be unpopular. why? but why be the sun of this 23rd August, shine

from its rise royally upon pacify, enrol and liveried army of

cloud, more agreeable to earth’s population than his pinched appearance

of the poor mopped red nose and melancholic rheumy eyelet on a January

day! undoubtedly Victor Radnor risk his repute of prophet. yet his

popularity would have survive the continuance of the storm and deluge.

he do this:--and the mystery puzzle the suspicious be nothing

wonderful: in addition to a transparent benevolence, he spread a sort of

assurance about he, that he think the well of the people for their

thinking well of themselves. it come first from the workman at his

house. ‘the right sort, and no humbug: like you to be man.’ such a

report make tropical soil for any new seed.



now, it be a postulate, to strengthen all poor commoner, that not even

in comparison with the high need we be small unless we yield to think

it of ourselves. do but stretch a hand to the touch of earth in you, and

you spring upon combative manhood again, from the basis where all be

equal. humanity’s historian, however, tell we, that the exhilaration

bring we consciousness of a stature, be gas which too frequently

have to be administer. certe the cock among man do not require the

process; they get it off the sight of the sun arise or a simple hen

submissive: but we have our hibernate bear among man, our yoked oxen,

cab horse, beat dog; we have on large patch of these Islands,

a Saxon population, much want assistance, if they be not to feel

themselves beat, drive, catch by the neck, yoke and heavyheade.

Blest, then, be he who give they a sense of the pride of stand on

leg. Beer, ordinarily their solitary helper beneath the iron canopy

of wealth, be know to they as a bitter usurer; it knock they flat

in their person and their fortune, for the short spell of recreative

exaltation. they send up their rough glory round the name of the

gentleman--a stranger, but their friend: and never be friend to be

thought of as a stranger--who manage to get the holiday for Wrensham

and thereabout, that they may hurl away for one jolly day the old hat of

a dodder humbleness, and trip to the strain of the internal music he

have unwound.



say he: be it a Charity Concert? charity begin at home, say he: and

if I welcome you gentry on behalf of the poor of London, why, it follow

you grant I the right to make a beginning with the poor of our part

down here. he put it so, no master nor mistress neither could refuse

he. why, the workman at his house be nigh pitch the contractor

all sprawl on a strike, and Mr. Radnor take train, harangue ‘em and

rub ‘em smooth; ten minute by the clock, they say; and return train to

his business in town; by reason of good sense and feeling, it be; poor

man don’t ask for more. a work man, all the world over, ask but

justice and a little relaxation--just a collar of fat to his lean.



Mr. Caddis, M.P., pursue the riddle of popularity, which irritated and

repel as constantly as it attract he, would have come near to an

instructive presentment of it, by listen to these plain fellow, than

he be in the line of equipage, at a later hour of the day. the remark

of the comfortably cushion and wheel, though they be eulogistic

to extravagance, be vapourish when we court they for nourishment;

substantially, they be bone to the cynical. he hear enumeration

of Mr. Radnor’s rich, eclipse his own past compute. a merchant, a

holder of mine, Director of a mighty Bank, projector of run rail,

a princely millionaire, and determine to be popular--what be the aim

of the man? it be the curse of modern time, that we never can be sure

of our parliamentary seat; not when we have it in our pocket! the

Romans have leave we golden word with regard to the fickleness of the

populace; we have our Horace, our Juvenal, we have our Johnson; and in

this vaunted age of reason it be, that we surrender ourselves into the

hand of the populace! Panem et circense! Mr. Caddis repeat it, after

his father; his father and he have not head they out of that original

voracity. there they be, for moneyed legislator to bewail their

appetite. and it be an article of his legislation, to keep they there.



pedestrian purchaser of ticket for the Charity Concert, rather openly,

in an envelope of humour, confess to the bait of the Radnor bread with

bit of fun. savoury rumour be sweep across Wrensham. Mr. Radnor

have borrow footman of the principal house about. cartload of

provision have be see to come. an immediate reward of a deed of

benevolence, be a thing sensibly heavenly; and the five-shill ticket

be pay for as if for a packet on the counter. unacquainted with Mr.

Radnor, although the report of he strike a summon to their gastric

juice, resemble in its effect a clamorous cordiality, they be

chill, on their step along the halfrolled new gravel-road to the

house, by see three table of prodigious length, where very evidently

a feast have rage: one to plump the people--perhaps excessively court

by great gentleman of late; shopkeeper, the villager, child. these

have be at it for two merry hour. they have rise. they be beef and

pudding on leg; in some quarter, beer amiably manifest, owe to the

flourish of a military band. boy, who have shake room through their

magical young corporation for fresh stowage, dart out of a chasing

circle to the crumble cornucopia regretfully forsake fifteen minute

back, and bury another tart. plenty still reign: it be the will of

the Master that it should.



we divert our attention, resign in stoic humour, to the bill of the

Concert music, hand we with our ticket at the park-gates: we have no

right to expect refreshment; we come for the music, to be charitable.

Signora Bianca Luciani: of whom we have read almost to the hearing she;

enough to make the mistake at time. the grand violinist Durandarte:

forcibly detain on his way to America. Mr. Radnor send he a blank

cheque:--no!--so Mr. Radnor besought he in person: he be irresistible;

a great musician himself; it be become quite the modern style. we have

now english nobleman who play the horn, the fife--the drum, some say! we

may yet be Merrie England again, with our noble take the lead.



England’s noble as a musical band at the head of a marching and dancing

population, picture happily an old conservative country, that retain

its member of aristocracy in the foremost place while subject

they to downright use. their ancestor, behold they there, would be

satisfied on the point of honour; perhaps enliven by hear they at

fife and drum.



but middle-class pedestrian, having pay five shilling for a ticket to

hear the music they love, and not have full assurance of refreshment,

be often, latterly, satirical upon their superior; and, over this

country at least, require the refreshment, that the democratic sprout

in they may be reconcile with aristocracy. do not listen to they

far on the subject. they vote safely enough when the day come, if

there be no praetematurally strong pull the other way.



they perceive the name of the Hon. Dudley Sowerby, fourth down the

Concert-bill; mark for a flute-duet with Mr. Victor Radnor, Miss Nesta

Victoria Radnor accompany at the piano. it may mean?... do you want

a whisper to suggest to you what it may mean? the father’s wealth be

enormous; the mother be a beautiful majestic woman in her prime. and

see, she sing: a wonderful voice. and low down, a duet with her

daughter: violin and clarionet; how funny; something hungarian. and

in the Second Part, Schubert’s Ave Maria--oh! when we hear that, we

dissolve. she be a singer before he marry she, they say: a lady by

birth one of the first County family. but it be a gift, and she could

not be keep from it, and be go, when they meet--and it be love! the

most perfect duet. for he she abandon the stage. you must remember,

that in their young day the Stage be many stage beneath the esteem

entertain for it now. domestic Concerts be get up to gratify she: a

Miss Fredericks: good old english name. Mr. Radnor call his daughter,

Freddy; so Mr. Taplow, the architect, say. they be for modern music

and ancient. Tannhauser, Wagner, you see. Pergolese.



flute-duet, Mercadante. here we have he! O--Durandarte: Air Basque,

variation--his own. again, Senor Durandarte, Mendelssohn. Encore

he, and he play you a national piece. a dark little creature a

life-guardsman could hold-up on his outstretched hand for the fifteen

minute of the performance; but he fill the hall and thrill the heart,

waft you to heaven; and do it as though he be converse with his

andalusian lady-love in easy whisper about their mutual passion

for spanish chocolate all the while: so the musical critic of the

Tirra-Lirra say. express train every half hour from London; all the

big people of the city. Mr. Radnor command they, like Royalty. totally

different from that old figure of the wealthy City merchant; young,

vigorous, elegant, a man of taste, high culture, speak the language

of Europe, patron of the Arts, a perfect gentleman. his mother be one

of the Montgomerys, Mr. Taplow say.



and it be General Radnor, a most distinguished officer, dying knight.

but Mr. Victor Radnor would not take less than a Barony--and then only

with descent of title to his daughter, in her own right.



Mr. Taplow have say as much as Victor Radnor choose that he should say.



carriage be in flow for an hour: pedestrian form a wavy coil.

judge by number, the entertainment be a success; would the hall

contain they? marvel be tell of the hall. every ticket enter and

be enfold; almost all have a seat. chivalry stand. it be a breeched

abstraction, sacrifice voluntarily and genially to the Fair, for a

restoring of the balance between the sex, that the division of good

thing be rather in the fair one’ favour, as they be to think: with

the warning to they, that the establishment of their claim for equality

put an end to the priceless privilege of petticoat. woman must be

mad, to provoke such a warning; and the majority of they submissively

show their good sense. they send up an incense of perfumery, all the

bouquet of the chemist commingle; most nourishing to the idea of

woman in the nose of man. they be a forest foliage--rustle of silk and

muslin, magic interweaving, or the mythology, if you prefer it. see,

hear, smell, they be Juno, Venus, Hebe, to you. we must have poetry

with they; otherwise they be well in the kitchen. be there--but there

be not; there be not present one of the chivalrous breeched who could

prefer the shocking emancipate gristly female, which impose propriety

on our sensation and inner dream, by petrify in the tender bud of

they.



Colonel Corfe be the man to hear on such a theme. he be a colonel of

company. but those be his diversion, as the British Army have be

to the warrior. Puellis idoneus, he be professedly a lady’s man, a

rose-beetle, and a fine speciman of a common kind: and he have be that

thing, that shine delight of the lap of lady, for a spell of year,

necessitate a certain sparkle of the saccharine crystal preserve

he, to conceal the muster. he have to be fascinating, or he would look

outworn, forlorn. on one side of he be Lady Carmine; on the other,

Lady Swanage; dame embed in the bloom maturity of England’s

conservatory. their lord (an Earl, a Baron) be of the lord who go

down to the City to sow a title for a repair of their poor income, and

be to be commend for frankly accept the new dispensation while

they retain the many advantage of the uncancelle ancient. thus gently

do a maternal Old England let they down. projector of Companies,

director, founder; Railway magnate, actual king and noble (though

one cannot yet persuade old reverence to do homage with the ancestral

spontaneity to the uncrowned, uncoroneted, people of our sphere);

holder of share in gold mine, share in Afric’s blue mud of the

glitter tooth we draw for english beauty to wear in the ear, on the

neck, at the wrist; banker and wife of Bankers. Victor pass among

they, chat right and left.



Lady Carmine ask he: ‘be Durandarte count on?’



he answer: ‘I make sure of the Luciani.’



she serenely understand. artiste be licence people, with a Bohemian

instead of the titular glitter for the bewildering of moralist; as

paste will pass for diamond where the mirror be hold up to Nature by

bold supernumerary.



he wish to introduce Nesta. his girl be on the raise orchestral

flooring. Nataly hold she fast to a music-scroll.



Mr. Peridon, sad for the absence and cause of absence of Louise de

Seilles,--summoned in the morning abruptly to bourge, where her brother

lie with his life endanger by an accident at Artillery practise,--Mr.

Peridon be generally conductor. Victor be to lead the full force of

amateur in the brisk overture to Zampa. he perceive a movement of

Nataly, Nesta, and Peridon. ‘they have come,’ he say; he jump on the

orchestra board and hasten to greet the Luciani with Durandarte in

the retire-room.



his departure raise the whisper that he would wield the baton. an

opinion be unuttered. his name for the flute-duet with the Hon. Dudley

Sowerby have not provoke the reserve opinion; it seem, on the whole,

a pretty thing in he to condescend to do: the sentiment he awaken

be not fluster by it. but the act of leading, appear as an official

thing to do. our soufe of sentiment will be see subside under

a breath, without a repressive word to send it down. Sir Rodwell

Blachington would have prefer Radnor’s not lead or play either.

Colonel Corfe and Mr. Caddis decline to consider such conduct English,

in a man of station... notwithstanding Royal Highnesses, who be at

least partly English: partly, we say, under our breath, remember our

old ideal of an english gentleman, in opposition to german taste. it be

true, that the whole country be change, decompose!



the colonel fish for Lady Carmine’s view. and Lady Swanage too? both

of the distinguished lady approve of Mr. Radnor’s lead--for a

lead off. woman be pleased to see their favourite in the place of

prominence--as long as Fortune swim he unbuffeted, or one should say,

unbattered, up the mount wave. besides these lady have none of

the colonel’s remainder of juvenile english sense of the manly, his

adolescent’s intolerance of the eccentric, suspicion and contempt of any

suppose affectation, which be not ostentatiously, stalkingly practise

to subdue the sex. and you cannot wield a baton without look

affect. and at one of the Colonel’s Clubs in town, only five year

back, an english musical composer, who have not then make his money--now

by the mystery of event knighted!--had be (he make now fifteen

thousand a year) black-ball. ‘Fiddler? no; cann’t admit a Fiddler to

associate on equal term with gentleman.’ only five year back: and at

present we be have the Fiddler everywhere.



a sprinkling of the minor lady also would have be glad if Mr. Radnor

have keep himself somewhat more exclusive. Dr. Schlesien hear remark,

upon which his weighty teutonic mind sit crushingly. do these English

care one bit for music?--for anything fine than material stuffs?--what

that man Durance call, ‘their beef, their beer, and their pew in

eternity’? his wrath at their babble and petty brabble doubt that they

do.



but they do. art have a hold of they. they pay for it; and the thing

purchase grapple. it will get to their bosom to breathe from they in

time: entirely overcome the taste for feudalism, which still a little

object to see their bear gentleman act as leader of musician. a

people of slow movement, develop tardily, their country be want

in the distincter feature, from be always in the transitional state,

like certain sea-fish rolling head over-you know not head from tail.

without the Welsh, Irish, Scot; in their composition, there would not be

much of the yeasty ferment: but it should not be forget that Welsh,

Irish, Scot, be now largely of their number; and the taste for

elegance, and for spiritual utterance, for Song, nay, for Ideas, be

there among they, though it do not everywhere cover a rocky surface to

bewitch the eye of aliens;--like Louise de Seilles and Dr. Schlesien,

for example; alien have no hostile disposition toward the people they

be compel to criticize; honourably grant, that this people have a

great history. even such have the Lion, with Homer for the transcriber of

his deed. but the gentle alien would image our emergence from wildness

as the unsocial spectacle present by the drear menagerie Lion, alone

or mate; with hardly an animate moment save when the raw red joint be

beneath his paw, remind he of the desert’s pasture.



nevertheless, where Strength be, there be hope:--it may be say more

truly than of the breath of life; which be perhaps but the bucket of

breath, muddy with the sediment of the well: whereas we have in Strength

a hero, if a malefactor; whose muscle shall haul he up to the light he

will prove worthy of, when that divinity have show he his uncleanness.

and when Strength be not exercise, you be sure to see satirist

jump on his back. dozen, foreign and domestic, be on the back of Old

England; a tribute to our quality if at the same time an irritate

scourge. the domestic be in excess; and let we own that their view of

the potentate, as an apathetic beast of power, who will neither show the

power nor woo the grace; pretend all the while to be eminently above

the beast, and posture in an inefficient mimicry of the civilized,

excite to satire. Colney Durance have his excuse. he could point to the

chief creative mind of the country for generation, as begin their

survey genially, end venomously, because of an exasperating unreason

and scum in the bubble of the scene, call social, around they. Viola

under his chin, he gaze along the crowded hall, which be to he a rich

national pudding of the sycophant, the hypocrite, the burlie, the

idiot; dreg of the depth and froth of the surface; bow to one,

that they may scorn another; institute a Charity, for their poor

fawn fellow to relieve their purse and assist they in trick the

world and their maker: and so forth, a tiresome tirade: and as it be

not on his lip, but in the stomach of the painful creature, let he

grind that hurdy-gurdy for himself. his friend Victor set it stir:

Victor have here what he aim at!



how Success deride ambition! and for this he imperille the happiness

of the worthy woman he love! expose she to our fen-fog and foul

snake--of whom one or more might be in the assembly now: all because

of his insane itch to be the bob cork on the wave of the minute!

Colney’s rapid interjection condense upon the habitual shrug at human

folly, just when Victor, front the glassy stare of Colonel Corfe,

tap to start his orchestra through the lively first bar of the

overture to Zampa.



we soon perceive that the post Mr. Radnor fill he thoroughly fill,

whatever it may be. Zampa take horse from the opening. we have no

amateur conductor ride ahead: violin, ‘cello, piano, wind-stop:

Peridon, Catkin, Pempton, Yatt, Cormyn, Colney, Mrs. Cormyn, Dudley

Sowerby: they be spirit on, pat, subdue, muted, raise, rush

anew, away, hold in hand, in both hand. not earnestness wear as a

cloak, but issue, we see; not simply a leader of musician, a leader

of man. the halo of the millionaire behind, assure we of a development

in the character of England’s merchant prince. the homage we pay he

flatter we. a delightful overture, masterfully execute; end too

soon; except that the programme forbid the ordinary interpretation

of prolonged applause. Mr. Radnor be one of those who do everything

consummately. and we have a monition within, that a course of spiritual

enjoyment will rouse the call for bodily refreshment. his genial nod and

laugh and word of commendation to his troop persuade we oddly, we know

not how, of provision to come. at the door of the retire-room, see, he

be congratulate by Luciani and Durandarte. Miss Priscilla Graves be

now to sing a Schumann. down later, it be a duet with the Rev. Septimus

Barmby. we have nothing to be ashamed of in she, before an italian

operatic singer! ice after the first part be over.









CHAPTER XXI. DARTREY FENELLAN



have Nataly and Nesta know who be outside help Skepsey to play ball

with the boy, they would not have work through their share of the

performance with so graceful a composure. even Simeon Fenellan be

unaware that his half-brother Dartrey have land in England. Dartrey

go first to Victor’s office, where he find Skepsey pack the

day’s letter and circular into the bag for the delivery of they

at Lakelands. they spring a chatter, and they miss the last of the

express train which do, not greatly signify, Skepsey say, ‘as it be

a Concert.’ to hear his hero talk, be the music for he; and he richly

enjoy the pacing along the railway-platform.



arrive on the ground, they take opposite side in a game of rounder,

at that moment toss head or tail for innings. these boy be

slovenly player, and be make unhappy by Skepsey’s fussy instruction

to they in smartness. they have a stupid way of feed the stick, and

they run sprawl; it concern Great Britain for they to learn how to

use their leg. it be pitiful for the country to see how lumpish her

young child be. Dartrey know his little man and laugh, after

warn he that his English would want many lesson before they

stomach the mixture of discipline and pleasure. so it appear: the

pride of the boy in themselves, their confidence, enjoyment of the

game, be all go; and all be speedily out but Skepsey; who run for

the rounder, with his coat off, sharp as a porpoise, and would have get

it, he have it in his grasp, when, at the jump, just over the line of the

goal, a clever fling, if ever be, catch he a crack on that part of

the human frame where sound be well achieve. then be these young

lump transform to limber, lither, merry fellow. they rejoice

Skepsey’s heart; they do everything well, run and dodge and throw in

a style to win the nod from the future official inspector of Games and

Amusements of the common people; a deputy of the Government, propose by

Skepsey to his hero with a deferential eagerness. Dartrey clap he on

the shoulder, softly laugh.



‘system--Mr. Durance be right--they must have system, if they be to

appreciate a holiday,’ Skepsey say; and he send a wretched gaze around,

at the justification of some of the lurid view of Mr. Durance, in sign

of the holiday wasted;--impoverishing the country’s manhood in a small

degree, it may be argue, but we ask, can the country afford it, while

foreign nation be drill their youth, teach they to be ready to

move in squad or masse, like the fist of a pugilist. Skepsey leave

it to his look to speak his thought. he see an enemy in tobacco. the

drowsiness of beer have stretch various hulk under tree. ponderous

cricket lumber half-alive. flabby fun knock-up a yell. and it be

rather vexatious to see girl dance in good time to the band-music.

one have a male-partner, who hop his loutish burlesque of the thing he

could not do.



apparently, too certainly, none but the girl have a notion of orderly

muscular exercise. of what use be girl! girl have their one mission

on earth; and let they be healthy by all mean, for the sake of

it; only, they should not seem to prove that old England be well

represent on the female side. Skepsey hear, with a nip of spite at

his bosom, a small body of they singe in chorus as they walk in

step, arm in arm, actually march: and to the rearward, none of these

girl heed; there be the lout at their burlesque of jig and

fisticuff! ‘Cherry Ripe,’ be the song.



‘it’s delightful to hear they!’ say Dartrey.



Skepsey mutter jealously of their having be train.



the song, which draw Dartrey Fenellan to the quick of an English home,

plant he at the same time in Africa to hear it. Dewy on a parch

forehead it fall, England the shed heaven.



he fetch a deep breath, as of gratitude for vital refreshment. he have

his thought upon the training of our English to be something besides

the machinery of capitalist, and upon the country as a blessed mother

instead of the most capricious of maudlin step-dame.



he flick his leg with the stick he carry, say: ‘your master’s the

man to make a change among they, old friend!’ and stroll along to

a group surround two fellow who sham a bout at single-stick.

Vacuity in the attack on either side, contribute to the joint success

of the defense. they pause under inspection; and Dartrey say: ‘you’re

burn to give they a lesson, Skepsey.’



Skepsey have no objection to his hero’s do so, though at his personal

cost.



the stick be hand to they; the crowd increase; their rounder boy

have spy they, and come troop to the scene. Skepsey be direct to

hit in earnest. his defensive attitude flash, and he be at head and

right and leave leg, and give point, recover, thrust madly, and

again at shoulder and thigh, with bravos for reward of a man mean

business; until a topper on his hat, a cut over the right thigh, and the

stick in his middlerib, tell the spectator of a scientific adversary;

and loudly now the gentleman be cheer. an undercurrent of warm

feeling run for the plucky little one at it hot again in spite of the

stroke, and when he fetch his master a handsome thud across the

shoulder, and the gentleman give up and compliment he, Skepsey have

applause.



he then beg his hero to put the previous couple in position, through

a few of the opening movement. they be horribly sheepish at first.

meantime two boy have get hold of stick, and both have go to work in

Skepsey’s gallant style; and soon one be howl. he excuse himself,

because of the funny-bone, situate, in his case, high than usual up

the arm. and now the pair of man be give and take cut to make a

rhinoceros caper.



‘very well; begin that way; try what you can bear,’ say Dartrey.



Skepsey watch they, in felicity for love of the fray, pain by the

disregard of science.



comment on the pretty play, indicate a reminiscent acquaintance with

it, and the capacity for critical observation, be start. assault,

wonderful trick of a slash life-Guardsman, one spectator have

witness at an exhibition in a London hall. box too. you may see

display of box still in place. how about a prizefight?--With money

on it?--Eh, but you don’t expect man to stand up to be knock into

rumpsteak for nothing?--No, but it’s they there bets!--Right, and

that’s a game go to ruin along of outsiders.--But it always be and it

always will be popular with Englishmen!



great english name of young day, before the wintry shadow of the Law

have blight they, receive their withered laurel. emulous boy be in

the heroic posture. good! spar do no hurt: Skepsey seize a likely

lad, Dartrey another. nature create the Ring for they. now then, arm

and head well up, chest hearty, shoulder down, out with the right fist,

just below the level of the chin; out with the left fist far, right

out, except for that bit of curve; so, and draw it slightly back for

wary-pussy at the spring. firm you stand, feel the muscle of both

leg, leave half a pace ahead, right plant, both stringy. none of your

milk-pail look; show we jaw, you bulldog. now then, leave from the

shoulder, straight at right of head.--Good, and alacrity call on

vigour in Skepsey’s pupil; Dartrey’s have the fist on his mouth before he

could parry right arm up. ‘foul blow!’ Dartrey cry. Skepsey vow to

the contrary. Dartrey reiterate his charge. Skepsey be a figure of

negation, gesticulate and protest. Dartrey appeal tempestuously

to the Ring; Skepsey likewise, in a tone of injury. he address a

remonstrance to Captain Dartrey.



‘hang your captain, sir! I call you a coward; come on,’ say the

resolute gentleman, already in ripe form for the attack. his blue eye

be like the springing sunrise over ridge of the sea; and Skepsey

jump to his meaning.



boy and man be spectator of a real scientific set-to, a lovely show.

they be half puzzle, it seem so deadly. and the little one get in

his blow at the gentleman, who have to be hop. only, the bad the

gentleman catch it, the friendly his countenance became. that be the

wonder, and that give they the key. but it be deliciously near to the

real thing.



Dartrey and Skepsey shake hand.



‘and now, you fellow, you’re to know, that this be one of the

champion; and you take your lesson from he and thank he,’ Dartrey

say, as he turn on his heel to strike and greet the flow from the

house.



‘Dartrey come!’ Victor, Fenellan, Colney, have he by the hand in turn.

pure sweetness of suddenly awaken joy sit in Nataly’s eye as she swam

to welcome he, Nesta move a step, seem hesitate, and she trip

forward. ‘dear Captain Dartrey!’



he do not say: ‘but what a change in you!’



‘it be blue-butterfly, all the same,’ Nataly speak to his look.



Victor hurriedly pronounce the formal introduction between the Hon.

Dudley Sowerby and Captain Dartrey Fenellan. the bronze face and the

milky bow to one another ceremoniously; the latter faintly flush.



‘so here you be at last,’ Victor say. ‘you stay with we.’



‘to-morrow or later, if you’ll have I. I go down to my people

to-night.’



‘but you stay in England now?’ Nataly’s voice waver on the question.



‘there’s a chance of my be off to Upper Burmah before the week’s

end.’



‘ah, dear, dear!’ sigh Fenellan; ‘and out of good come evil!--as

grandfather Deucalion exclaim, when he gallantly hand up his

dripping wife from the mud of the Deluge water. do you mean to be

run and dewe it on for ever, with only a nod for friend, Dart?’



‘Lord, Simmy, what a sound of home there be in your old nonsense!’

Dartrey say.



his eye of strong dark blue colour and the foreign swarthiness of his

brow and cheek and neck mix the familiar and the strange, in the

sight of the woman who know he.



the bill-broker’s fair-tressed young wife whisper of curiosity

concern he to Nataly. he dress like a sailor, he stand like a

soldier: and be he marry? yes, he be marry.



Mrs. Blathenoy imagine a something in Mrs. Radnor’s tone. she could

account for it; not by the ordinary reading of the feminine in the

feminine, but through a husband who profess to know secret. she

be young in year and experience, ten month wed, disappointedly

awaken, enliven by the hour, kindle by a novel figure of man,

fretful for a dash of imprudence. this Mrs. Radnor should be the one to

second her very innocent turn for a galopade; her own position allow

of any little divert jig or reel, or plunge in a bath--she require

it, for the domestic Jacob Blathenoy be a dry chip: prove such,

without a day’s variation during the whole of the ten wed month.

Nataly gratify her speak wish. Dartrey Fenellan bow to the lady,

and she withdraw he, see composedly that other and great lady

have the wish ungratified. their husband be not so rich as her, and

their complexion would hardly have please the handsome brown-face

officer so well.



Banquet, equal to a blast of trumpet, be the detaining word for the

multitude. it circulate, one know not how. Eloquent as the whiff to

the sniff (and nowhere be eloquence to match it, when the latter be

sharpen from within to without), the word be very soon over the

field. Mr. Carling may have help; he have it from Fenellan; and he

be among the principal group, claim or make acquaintance, as a

lawyer should do. the Concert be complimentarily a topic: Durandarte

divine!--did not everybody think so? everybody do, in default of a term

for overtop it. our language be poor at hyperbole; our voice

be strong. gesture and heaven-send eyeball invoke to display the

ineffable. where be Durandarte now? go; already go; off with the

Luciani for evening engagement; he come simply to oblige his dear

friend Mr. Radnor. cheque fifty guineas: hardly more on both side than

an exchange of smile. ah, these merchant-prince! what of Mr. Radnor’s

amateur instrumentalist? amateur, they be not to be name: perfect

musician. Mr. Radnor be the perfection of a host. yes, yes; Mrs.

Radnor; Miss Radnor too: delicious voice; but what be it about Mr.

Radnor so captivate! he be not quite english, yet he be not at all

foreign. be he very adventurous in business, as they say?



‘Soundest head in the City of London,’ Mr. Blathenoy remark.



Sir Rodwell Blachington give his nod.



the crowd interject, half-sighing. we ought to be proud of such a man!

perhaps we be a trifle exaggerate, say its heart. but that we be

wholly grateful to he, be a distinct conclusion. and he may be one of

the great man of his time: he have a quite individual style of dress.



Lady Rodwell Blachington observe to Colney Durance:



‘Mr. Radnor bid fair to become the idol of the english people.’



‘if he can prove himself to be sufficiently the dupe of the english

people,’ say Colney.



‘Idol--dupe?’ interject Sir Rodwell, and his eyebrow fix at the

perch of Colney’s famous ‘national interrogation’ over vacancy of

understanding, as if from the pull of a string. he have his audience with

he; and the satirist have nothing but his inner gush of acid at sight

of a plant barb.



Colney be ask to explain. he never explain. he perform a series

of astonishing leap, like the branchy baboon above the traveller’s head

in the tropical forest, and lead they into the trap they assist he to

prepare for they. ‘no humour, do you say? the English have no humour?’ a

nephew of Lady Blachington’s inquire of he, with polite pugnacity, and

be cordially assure, that ‘he vindicate they.’



‘and altruistic! another speciman of the modern coinage,’ a classical

Church dignitary, in grammarian disgust, remark to a lady, as they

pass.



Colney prick-up his ear. it strike he that he might fish for

suggestion in aid of the Grand Argument before the Elders of the Court

of Japan. Dr. Wardan, whose recognition he could claim, state to he,

that the lady and he be enumerate word of a doubtfully legitimate

quality now be inflict upon the language.



‘the slang from below be perhaps preferable?’ say Colney.



‘as little-less.’



‘but a pirate-tongue, cut-off from its root, must continue to practise

piracy, surely, or else take reinforcement in slang, otherwise it be

inexpressive of new idea.’



‘possibly the new idea be well express in slang.’



‘if insular. they will consequently be incommunicable to foreigner.

you would, then, have we be trade with token instead of a precious

currency? yet I cannot perceive the advantage of let our idea be

clothe so racy of the obscener soil; consider the pretension of the

english language to become the universal. if we refuse addition from

above, they force themselves on we from below.’



Dr. Wardan like the frame of the observation, dislike the substance.



‘one be to understand that the english language have these pretension?’

he said:--he mince in his manner, after the well-know mortar-board

and tassel type; the mouthing of a petrifaction: clearly useless to the

pleading of the patriotic Dr. Bouthoin and his curate.



he give no grip to Colney, who groan at cheap donnish sarcasm, and let

he go, after deal he a hard pellet or two in a cracker-covering.



there be Victor all over the field net his ephemera! and he who

feed on they, to pay a price for their congratulation and flattery,

he be one of they himself!



Nesta came trip from the Rev. Septimus Barmby. ‘dear Mr. Durance,

where be Captain Dartrey?’



Mrs. Blathenoy have just conduct her husband through a crowd, for an

introduction of he to Captain Dartrey. that be perceptible.



Dudley Sowerby follow Nesta closely: he strike across the path of the

Rev. Septimus: again he have the hollow of her ear at his disposal.



‘Mr. Radnor be excellent. he do everything consummately: really, we

be all sensible of it. I be. he must lead we in a symphony. these light

“champagne overture” of french composer, as Mr. Fenellan call

they, do not bring out his whole ability:--Zampa, Le Pre aux clercs,

Masaniello, and the like.’



‘your duet together go well.’



‘thank to you--to you. you keep we together.’



‘Papa be the runaway or strain-the-leash, if there be one.’



‘he be impetuous, he be so fervent. but, Miss Radnor, I could not be the

runaway-with you... with you at the piano. indeed, I... shall we stroll

down? I love the lake.’



‘you will hear the bell for your cold dinner very soon.’



‘I be not hungry. I would so much rather talk--hear you. but you be

hungry? you have be singe twice: three time! opera singer, they

say, eat hot supper; they drink stout. and I never hear your voice

more effective. your be a voice that... something of the feeling one

have in hear cathedral voice: carry one up. I remember, in Dresden,

once, a Fraulein Kuhnstreich, a prodigy, very young, consider her

accomplishment. but it be not the same.’



Nesta wonder at Dartrey Fenellan for stay so long with Mr. and Mrs.

Blathenoy.



‘ah, Mr. Sowerby, if I be to have flattery, I cannot take it as a

milliner’s dumb figure wear the beautiful dress; I must point out my

view of some of my merit.’



‘oh! do, I beg, Miss... you have a christian name and I too: and once

... not Mr. Sowerby: yes, it be Dudley!



‘quite accidentally, and a world of pardon entreat.’



‘and Dudley beg Dudley might be Dudley always!’



he be deepen to the Barmby intonation--apparently Cupid’s; but a

shade more airily Pagan, not so fearfully clerical.



her father have withdraw Dartrey Fenellan from Mr. and Mrs. Blathenoy.

Dr. Schlesien be bow with Dartrey.



‘and if Durandarte would only--but you be one with Miss Graves to

depreciate my Durandarte, in favour of the more classical Jachimo; whom

we all admire; but you shall be just,’ say she, and she pout. she have

see her father plant Dartrey Fenellan in the midst of a group of City

gentleman.



Simeon touch among they to pluck at his brother. he have not a chance;

he retire, and swam into the salmon-net of seductive Mrs. Blathenoy’s

broad bright smile.



‘it’s a matter of mine, and they’re hover in the attitude of

the query, like corkscrew over a bottle, profoundly indifferent to

blood-relationship,’ he say to she.



‘pray, stay and be console by I,’ say the fair young woman. ‘you

be to point I out all the distinguished people. be it true, that your

brother have leave the army?’



‘dartrey no long wear the red. here come Colonel Corfe, who do.

England have her army still!’



‘his wife persuade he?’



‘you see he be wear the black.’



‘for she? how very very sad! tell I--what a funnily dress woman

meet that gentleman!’



‘hush--a friend of the warrior. splendid weather, Colonel Corfe.’



‘superb toilette!’ the colonel eye Mrs. Blathenoy dilatingly,

advanced, bow, and open the siege.



she decide a calculation upon his age, make a wall of it, smilingly

agree with his encomium of the Concert, and tone her voice to

Fenellan’s comprehension: ‘do it occur recently?’



‘month; in Africa; I haven’t the date.’



‘such number of people one would wish to know! who be those lady

hold a Court, where Mr. Radnor be?’



‘Lady Carmine, Lady Swanage--if it be your wish?’ interpose the

colonel.



she deal he a forgiving smile. ‘and that pleasant-look old

gentleman?’



Colonel Corfe drew-up. Fenellan say: ‘be we veteran at forty or so?’



‘well, it ‘s the romance, perhaps!’ she raise her shoulder.



the colonel’s intelligence run a dog’s nose for a lady’s interjection.

‘the romance?... at forty, fifty? go? Miss Julinks, the great heiress

and a beauty; have choose he over the head of all the young man of his

time. Cranmer Lotsdale. Most romantic history!’



‘she’s in love with that, I suppose.’



‘now you direct my attention to he,’ say Fenellan, ‘the writing of the

romantic history have make the texture look a trifle thready. you have a

terrible eye.’



it be throw to where the person stand who have first within a few

minute help she to form critical estimate of man, more consciously

to read they.



‘your brother stay in England?’



‘the fear be, that he’s off again.’



‘annoying for you. if I have a brother, I would not let he go.’



‘how would you detain he?’



‘lock and bolt, clock wrong, hand and arm, kneeling--the fourth act

of the huguenot!’



‘he go by way of the window, I think. but that be a lover.’



‘oh! well!’ she flush. she do not hear the ‘neglect and astonish

colonel speak, and she seek diversion in say to Fenellan: ‘so many

people of distinction be assemble here to-day! tell I, who be that

pompous gentleman, who hold his arm up double, as he walk?’



‘like flapper of a penguin: and advance in jerk: he be head of the

great firm of Quatley Brothers: Sir Abraham: finance or farm one of

the South American Republics: we call he, Pride of Port. he consume it

and he present it.’



‘and who be that little man, who stop everybody?’



‘People of distinction indeed! that little man--be your upper lip

underrate he?... when a lady’s lip be erratically disdainful,

it suggest a misuse of a copious treasury, deserve to be mulct,

punish--how?--who can say?--that little man, now that little man, with

a lift of his little finger, could convulse the Bacon Market!’



Mrs. Blathenoy shake. hear Colonel Corfe exclaim:



‘Bacon market!’ she let fly a peal. then she turn to a fresh

satellite, a round and a ruddy, ‘at her service ever,’ Mr. Beaves

Urmsing, and repeat Fenellan’s word. he, in unfeigned wonderment at

such unsuspected power, cry: ‘dear I!’ and stare at the little man,

make the pretty lady’s face a twinkle dew.



he have miss the Concert. be it first-rate? Ecstasy answer in the

female voice.



‘Hem’d fool I be to keep appointment!’ he mutter.



she reprove he: ‘Fie, Mr. Urmsing; it’s the making of they, not the

keep!’



‘ah, my dear ma’am, if I’d have Blathenoy’s luck when he make a certain

appointment. and he be not so much old than I? the old one get the

prize!’



Mr. Beaves Urmsing prompt Colonel Corfe to laugh in triumph. the

colonel’s eyebrow be up in fixity over sleepy lid. he brighten to

propose the conducting of the pretty woman to the banquet.



‘we shall see they go in,’ say she. ‘Mr. Radnor have a french cook,

who do wonder. but I hear he ask for Mr. Beaves Urmsing. I’m

sure he expect the Marigolds at his Concert.’



‘anything to oblige the company,’ say the rustic ready chorister,

clear his throat.



the lady’s foot be bent in the direction of a grassy knoll, where

sunflower, tulip, dahlia, peony, of the sex eclipse at a distance

its rose and lily. Fenellan see Dartrey, still a centre of the

merchantman, stroll thither.



‘and do you know, your brother be good enough to dine with we next week,

Thursday, down here,’ she murmur. ‘I could venture to command?--if you

be not induce.’



‘whichever word apply to a faithful subject.’



‘I do so wish your brother have not leave the army!’



‘you have one son of Mars.’



her eye take the colonel up to cast he down: he be not the antidote.

she say to he: ‘Luciani’s voice wear well than her figure.’



the colonel reply: ‘I remember,’ and correct himself, ‘at Eton, in

jacket: she be not so particularly slim; never know how to dress. you

beat Italians there! she move one as a youngster.’



‘Eton boy be so susceptible!’



‘why, hulloa, don’t I remember she come out!--and do you mean to tell

I,’ Mr. Beaves Urmsing brutally address the colonel, ‘that you be

at Eton when... why, what age do you give the poor woman, then!’ he

bellow, ‘eh?’ as it be a bull crowing.



the colonel retreat to one of his defensive corner. ‘I be not aware

that I mean to tell you anything.’



Mr. Beaves Urmsing turn square-breast on Fenellan: ‘fellow’s a bear

donkey!’



‘and the mother live?’ say Fenellan.



Mr. Beaves Urmsing puff with wrath at the fellow.



five minute later, in the midst of the group surround and

felicitate Victor, he have sight of Fenellan converse with fair one,

and it strike a light in he; he go three step backward, with shout.

‘dam funny fellow! eh? who be he? I must have that man at my table.

worth fifty Colonel Jackasses! and I ‘ve get a son in the Guards: and as

much laugh in he, he ‘s get, as a bladder. but we’ll make a party, eh,

Radnor? with that friend o’ your. Dam funny fellow! and precious little

of it go on now among the young lot. they’re for see ghost and

gape their jaw; all for the quaver instead of the caper.’



he sound and thrum his roguish fling-off for the caper. a second

glimpse of Fenellan agitate the anecdote, as he call it, seize

Victor’s arm, to have he out of earshot of the lady. delivery,

not without its throe, be accomplish, but imperfectly, owe to

sympathetic convulsion, under which Mr. Beaves Urmsing’s countenance

be crinkle of many colour, as we see the Spring rhubarb-leaf. unable

to repeat the brevity of Fenellan’s rejoinder, he expatiate on it to

convey it, swear that it be the kind of thing do in the old day,

when man be witty dogs:--‘pat! and pat back! as in the pantomime.’



‘Repartee!’ say Victor. ‘he have it. you shall know he. you’re the man

for he.’



‘he for I, that he is!--“Hope the mother’s do well? my card”:--eh?

Grave as an owl! look, there go the donkey, lady to right and leave,

all ear for he--ha! ha! I must have another turn with your friend.

“Mother live, do she?” Dam funny fellow, all of the olden time! and

a dinner, bachelor dinner, six of we, at my place, next week, say

Wednesday, half-past six, for a long evening--flow bowl--eh, shall it

be?’



Nesta came look to find her Captain Dartrey.



Mr. Beaves Urmsing grow courtly of the olden time. he spy Colonel

Corfe anew, and ‘donkey!’ rise to split the roar at his mouth, and full

of his anecdote, he pursue some congenial acquaintance, cry to his

host: ‘Wednesday, mind! eh? by George, your friend’s gizzarde I for

the day!’



plump with the rich red stream of life, this last of the squire of

old England thump along among the guest, a very tuning-fork to keep

they at their pitch of enthusiasm. he encounter Mr. Caddis, and it be

an encounter. Mr. Caddis represent his political opinion; but here

be this cur of a Caddis whine his niminy note from his piminy nob,

when he be ask for his hearty echo of the praise of this jolly good

fellow come to waken the neighbourhood, to be a blessing, a blaze

hearth, a fall of manna:--and thank the Lord for he, you desertdog! ‘he

‘s a merchant prince, and he’s a prince of a man, if you’re for title.

eh? you “assent to my encomium.” you’ll be call I Mr. Speaker next.

hang I, Caddis, if those parliamentary bench of yours ben’t freeze

you from your seat up, and have get to your jaw--my belief!’



Mr. Caddis be leave reflect, that we have, in the dispensation

of Providence, when we have a seat, to submit to castigation from

butcherly man unaccountably commission to solidify the seat. he could

have preach a discourse upon success, to quiet the discontentment of

the unseated. and our world of seat oddly gain, quaintly occupy,

maliciously beset, insensately envy, need the discourse. but it be

not deliver, else would it have be here write down without mercy,

as a medical prescript, one of the grand specific. he meet Victor,

and, between his dread of he and the counsel of a position subject

to stripe, he be a genial thaw. victor beam; for Mr. Caddis have

previously stand eminent as an iceberg of the Lakelands’ party. Mr.

Inchling and Mr. Caddis be introduce. the former in Commerce, the

latter in Politics, their sustain boast be, the be our stable

Englishmen; and at once, with cousinly mind, they fall to chat upon

the nothing agreeably and seriously. Colney Durance forsook a set of

lady for fat prey, and listen to they. what he say, Victor do

not hear. the effect be always to be see, with inchling under Colney.

Fenellan do well service, really good service.



Nataly play the heroine she be at heart. why think of she as have

to act a character! twice have carle that afternoon, indirectly and

directly, state Mrs. Burman to be near the end we crape a natural, a

defensible, satisfaction to hear of:--not wish it--poor woman!--but

pardonably, before man and all the angel, wish, pray for the

beloved one to enter into her earthly peace by the agency of the other’s

exit into her heavenly.



Fenellan and Colney come together, and say a word apiece of their

friend.



‘in his element! the dear old boy have the look of a goldfish, king of

his globe.’



‘the dear old boy have to I the look of a pot on the fire, with a loose

lid.’



I may have the summon from Themison to-morrow, Victor think. the

success of the day, be a wine that rock the sober of thought.

for, strange to confess, ever since the fall on London Bridge, his

heart, influence in some degree by Nataly’s depression perhaps, have

be shadow by doubt of his infallible instinct for success. here, at

a stroke, and before enter the house, he have the whole neighbourhood

about he: he could feel that he and Nataly stand in the mind of the

worthy people variously with the brightness if not with the warmth

distinguishable in the bosom of Beaves Urmsing--the idea of whom give

Lakelands an immediate hearth-glow.



Armandine be thirteen minute, by his watch, behind the time she have

name. small blame to she. he excuse she to Lady Carmine, Lady Swanage,

Lady Blachington, Mrs. Fanning, Sir Abraham Quatley, Mr. Danny (of Bacon

fame) and the rest of the group surround Nataly on the mound leftward

of the white terrace descend to the lake; where she stand beat

her foot fretfully at the word bring by Nesta, that Dartrey Fenellan

have depart. it be her sunshine depart. but she go through her

task of converse amiably. Colney, for a wonder, consent to be useful

in assist Fenellan to relate story of french Cooks; which be,

like the Royal Hanoverian oyster, of an age for offer acceptable

flavour to english hearer. Nesta draw her mother’s attention to

Priscilla Graves and Skepsey; the latter bend head and assenting.

Nataly speak of the charm of Priscilla’s voice that day, in her duet

with the Rev. Septimus. Mr. Pempton look; he see that Priscilla be

proselytize. she be perfection to he but for one blot thing.

with grief on his eyelid, he say to Nataly or to himself: ‘meat!’



‘dear friend, don’t ride your hobby over we,’ she reply.



‘but it’s with that object they mount it,’ say Victor.



the great lady of the assembly be quite ready to accuse the

section, down to the individual, of the social English (reserve our

elect) of an itch to be tyrant.



Colney be apologize for they, with his lash: ‘it’s merely the

sensible effect of a want of polish of the surface when they rub

together.’



and he hear carle exclaim to Victor: ‘how come the fellow here!’



Skepsey have rush across an open space to intercept a leisurely

progressive man, whose hat be of the shape Victor know; and the man

wear the know black gaiter. in appearance, he have the likeness of a

fall parson.



Carling and Victor cross look that be question carry their

answer.



Nataly’s eye follow Victor’s. ‘who be the man?’ she say; and she get

no reply beyond a perky sparkle in his gaze.



other be notice the man, who be try to pass by Skepsey, now on

his right side, now on his left.



‘there’ll be no stop he,’ Carling say, and he slip to the

rear.’



at this juncture, Armandine’s mellow bell proclaim her readiness.



Victor rub the back of his head. Nataly ask he: ‘dear, be it that

man?’



he nod scantly: ‘expect, expect. I think we have our summon from

Armandine. one moment--poor soul! poor soul! Lady Carmine--Sir Abraham

Quatley. will you lead? Lady Blachington, I secure you. one moment.’



he direct Nataly to pair a few of the guest; he hurry down the

slope of sward.



Nataly apply to Colney Durance. ‘do you know the man?--is it that

man?’



Colney rejoin: ‘the man’s name be Jarniman.’



Armandine’s bell swing melodiously. the guest have group, thickening

for the stream to procession. Mrs. Blathenoy claim Fenellan; she

request he to tell she whether he have know Mrs. Victor Radnor many

year. she muse. ‘you like she?’



‘one like one’s dearest of friend among woman, do one not?’



the lady nod to his response. ‘and your brother?’



‘Dartrey be devoted to she.’



‘I be sure,’ say she, ‘your brother be a chivalrous gentleman. I

like she too.’ she come to her sentiment through the sentiment of the

chivalrous gentleman. sink from it, she remark that Mr. Radnor

be handsome still. Fenellan commend the subject to she, as one to

discourse of when she meet Dartrey. a smell of a trap-hatch, half-open,

afflict and sharpen he. it be Blathenoy’s breath: husband of

young wife do these villanie, for the sake of show their knowledge.

Fenellan forbore to praise Mrs. Victor: he lay his colour on Dartrey.

the lady give ear till she redden. he mean no harm, mean nothing but

good; and he be light the most destructive of our low fire.



visibly, that man Jarniman be dispose of with ease. as in the

street-theatre of crow Punch, distance enlist pantomime to do the

effective part of the speech. Jarniman’s hat be off, he stand bent,

he deliver his message. he be hand over to Skepsey’s care for the

receiving of meat and drink. Victor return; he have Lady Blachington’s

hand on his arm; he be all her, and in the heart of his company of

guest at the same time. eye that have read he closely for year,

be unable to spell a definite signification on his face, below the

overflowing happiness of the hospitable man among contented guest. he

have in fact something within to enliven he; and that be the more than

suspicion, amount to an odour of certainty, that Armandine intend

one of her grand surprise for her master, and for the hundred and fifty

or so to be seat at her table in the unwarmed house of Lakelands.









CHAPTER XXII. CONCERNS the INTRUSION of JARNIMAN



Armandine do her wonder. there be not in the wide range of the Muses

a more responsive instrument than man to his marvellous cook; and if

his note be but as flow as his pedal be zealous, we should be

carry on the tale of the enthusiasm she awaken, away from the rut

highroad, where history now think of tighten her girdle for an

accelerated pace.



the wonder be do: one hundred and seventy guest plenteously feed

at table across the great Concert Hall, down a length of the

conservatory-glass, on soup, fish, meat, and the kitchen-garden, under

play of creative sauce, all in the persuasive steam of savouriness;

every dish, one may say, advance, curtsey, swim to be your

partner, instead of passively submit to the eye of appetite,

consent to the tooth, as that rather melancholy procession of the

cold, resemble establish spinster thrice-corset in decorum, will

appear to do. whether Armandine have the thought or that she simply act

in conformity with a Frenchwoman’s direct good sense, we do require to

smell a sort of animation in the meat we consume. we be still perhaps

traceably relate to the Adamite old-youngster just on his leg,

who betray at every turn his darwinian beginning, and relish

a palpitating unwillingness in the thing refresh he; only we

young-oldster cherish the milder taste for willingness, with a throb of

the vanquished in it. and a seeming of that we get from the warm roast.

the banquet to be fervently remember, should smoke, should send out

a breath to meet we. victor’s crowded saloon-carriage be one voice

of eulogy, to raise Armandine high as the finale rocket burst

over Wrensham Station at the start Londonward. how have she manage? we

foolishly question the art of magicians.



Mr. Pempton be an apparent dissentient, as the man must be who be

half a century ahead of his fellow in humaneness, and sadden by the

display of slaughter herd and their devourer. he have pick out

his vegetable and farinaceous morsel, wherever he could get they

uncontaminated; enough for sustenance; and the utmost he could show be,

that he do not complain. when mount and ride by the satirist, in

wrath at he for systematically feast the pride of the martyr on

the maceration of his animal part, he put on his martyr’s pride, which

assume a perfect contentment in the critical depreciation of oppose

system: he be draw to state, as he have often do, that he consider

our animal part shamefully and dangerously over nourish, and that

much of the immorality of the world be due to the present excessive

indulgence in meat. ‘not in drink?’ Miss Graves inquire. ‘no,’ he say

boldly; ‘not equally; meat be more insidious. I say nothing of take

life--of fatten for that express purpose: disease of animal: bad

blood make: cruelty superinduce: it will be see to be, it will be

look back on, as a form of, a second stage of, cannibalism. let that

pass. I say, that for excess in drinking, the penalty be pay instantly,

or at least on the morrow.’



‘pay by the drunkard’s wife, you should say.’



‘whereas intemperance in eating, corrupt constitutionally, more

spiritually vitiate, we think: on the whole, gluttony be the

least-generous of the vice.’



Colney lure Mr. Pempton through a quagmire of the vice to declare,

that it brutalize; and stammeringly to adopt the suggestion, that our

breeding of english lady--those light of the civilized world--can

hardly go with a feeding upon flesh of beast. Priscilla regret that

champagne should have to be plead in excuse of impertinence to her

sex. they be both combative, nib for epigram, edge to inflict

wound; and they be set to shudder openly at one another’s practise;

they might have expose to Colney which of the two maniacal section of

his English have the vaster conceit of superiority in purity; they be

bare themselves, as it be with a garment flung-off at each retort.

he reproach they for undermine their countryman; whose Falstaff

panic demand blood of animal to restore they; and their period of

bragging, that they should brandify their wit to imagine themselves

Vikings.



Nataly interpose. she be vex with he. he let his eyelid drop: but

the occasion for show the prickliness of the bristly social English,

could not be resist. Dr. Peter Yatt be trick to confess, that small

annoyance be, in his experience, powerful on the human frame; and Dr.

John Cormyn be very neatly bring round to assure he he be mistaken

if he suppose the homoeopathic doctor who smoke be exercise a

destructive influence on the efficacy of the infinitesimal dose

he prescribe; Dr. Yatt chuckle a laugh at globule; Dr. Cormyn at

patient treat as horse; while Mr. Catkin be bring to praise the

smoke of tobacco as our sanctuary from the sex; and Mr. Peridon quietly

deny, that the taking of it into his nostril from the puff of his

friend cause he sad silence: Nesta fly to protect the admirer of

her beloved Louise. her subside young excitement of the day set she

boat on that moony melancholy in Mr. Peridon.



no one could understand the ground for Colney’s more than usual

waspishness. he trot out the fulgent and tonal Church of the Rev.

Septimus; the skeleton of worship, so truly show the spirit, in that

of Dudley Sowerby’s family; maliciously admire both; and he have a spar

with Fenellan, end in a snarl and a shout. Victor say to he: ‘yes,

here, as much as you like, old Colney, but I tell you, you’ve stagger

that poor woman Lady Blachington to-day, and her husband too; and I

don’t know how many beside. what the pleasure of it can be, I cann’t

guess.’



‘nor I,’ say Fenellan, ‘but I’ll own I feel envious; like the girl

among a family of boy I know, who be all of they starve in their

infancy by a miserly father, that give they barely a bit of grave to

eat and not a drop of Pempton to drink; and on the afternoon of his

funeral, I find they in the drawing-room, four lank fellow, heel up,

walk on their hand, from long practice; and the girl inform I,

that her brother be able so to send the little blood they have in

their body to their brain, and always feel quite cheerful for it,

happy, and empower to deal with the problem of the universe; as they

couldn’t on their leg; but she, poor thing, be forbid to do the

same! and I’m like she. I care for decorum too much to get the brain

to act on Colney’s behaviour; but I see it enrapture he and may be

comprehensible to the topsy-turvy.’



Victor rub hand. it be he who fill Colney’s bag of satiric spite.

in addition to the downright lunacy of the courting of country society,

by mean of the cajolement witness this day, a suspicion that Victor

be wear a false face over the signification--of Jarniman’s visit

and mean to deceive the trustful and too-devoted love woman he seem

bind to wreck, irritate the good of his nature. he have a resolve to

pass an hour with the couple, and speak and insist on hear plain

word before the night have end. but Fenellan take it out of he.

Victor’s show of a perfect contentment emulate Pempton’s, incite

Colney to some of his cunning rapier-thrust with his dancing adversary;

and the heat which be plant in we for the composition: of those cool

epigram, will not allow plain word to follow. or, hand he over to

the police of the Philistines, you may put it, that a habit of assort

spice will render an earnest simplicity distasteful. he be invite

by Nataly to come home with they; her wish for his presence, besides

personal, be move by an intuition, that his counsel might specially

benefit they. he shrug; he say he have work at his chamber.



‘work!’ Victor ejaculate: he never could reach to a right comprehension

of labour, in regard to the very unremunerative occupation of

literature. Colney he do not want, and he let he go, as Nataly

notice, without a sign of the reluctance he show when the other,

include Fenellan, excuse themselves.



‘so! we’re alone?’ he say, when the door of the hall have close

on they. he keep Nesta talk of the success of the day until she,

observe her mother’s look, simulate the setting-in of a frenzied

yawn. she be kiss, and she trip to her bed.



‘now we be alone,’ Nataly say.



‘well, dear, and the day be, you must own... ‘ he seek to trifle with

her heavy voice; but she recall he: ‘victor!’ and the naked anguish

in her cry of his name be like a foreign world threaten the one he

fill.



‘ah, yes; that man, that Jarniman. you see he, I remember. you

recollect him?--stouter than he be. in her service ever since. well,

a little drop of bitter, perhaps: no harm, tonic.’



‘Victor, be she very ill?’



‘my love, don’t feel at your side: she be ill, ill, not the extreme

case: not yet: old and ill. I tell Skepsey to give the man refreshment:

he have to do his errand.’



‘what? why do he come?’



‘curious; he make acquaintance with Skepsey, and appear to have

outwit poor Skepsey, as far as I see it. but if that woman think

of intimidate I now--!’ his eye brighten; he have spring from

evasion. ‘live in flagrant sin, she say: you and I! she will not

have it; warn I. hear this day at noon of company at Lakelands.

Jarniman off at once. be to live in obscurity;--you and I! if together!

dictate from her death-bed-I suppose her death-bed.’



‘dearest,’ Nataly press hand on her left breast, ‘may we not think

that she may be right?’



‘an outrageous tyranny of a decrepit woman name herself wife when she

be only a limpet of vitality, with drug for blood, hang-on to blast

the healthy and vigorous! I remember old Colney’s once, in old day,

call that kind of marriage a sarcophagus. it be to I. there I

lay--see myself lie! waste! think what you can good of she, by all

mean! from her bed! despatch that Jarniman to I from her bedside,

with the word, that she cannot in her conscience allow--what imposition

be it I practise?... flagrant sin?--it would have be an infinitely

viler.... she be the cause of suffer enough: I bear no more from she;

I’ve come to the limit. she have hear of Lakelands: she have take one of

her hatred to the place. she might have write, might have send I a

gentleman, privately. no: it must be do in dramatic style-for effect:

her confidential--lawyer?--doctor?--butler! perhaps to frighten me:--the

boy she know, and--poor soul! I don’t mean to abuse she: but such

conduct as this be downright brutal. I laugh at it, I snap my finger.

I can afford to despise it. only I do say it deserve to be call

abominable.’



‘Victor, have she use a threat?’



‘be I bring to listen to any of her threats!--Funny thing, I ‘m

certain that woman never can think of I except as the boy she know. I

see she first when she be first a widow. she would keep talk to I

of the seduction of the metropolis--keep inform I I be a young

man... shake her head. I ‘ve tell you. she--well, I know we be

mixture, woman as well as man. I can, I hope, grant the same--I believe

I can--allowance to woman as to man; we be poor creature, all of

use one sense: though I willn’t give Colney his footing; there’s a

well way of read we. I hold fast to Nature. no violation of Nature,

my good Colney! we can live the life of noble creature; and I say that

happiness be mean for us:--just as, when you sit down to your dinner,

you must do it cheerfully, and you make good blood: otherwise all’s

wrong. there’s the right answer to Colney! but when a woman like

that .... and marry a boy: well, twenty-one--not quite that: and an

innocent, a positive innocent--it may seem incredible, after a term of

school-life: it be a fact: I can hardly understand it myself when I

look back. marry he! and then set to work to persecute he, because

he have blood in his vein, because he worship beauty; because he seek

a real marriage, a real mate. and, I say it! let the world take its own

view, the world be wrong! because he prefer a virtuous life to the

kind of life she would, she must--why, necessarily!--have drive he to,

with a mummy’s grain of nature in his body. and I be make of flesh, I

admit it.’



‘victor, dearest, her threat concern only your living at Lakelands.’



‘pray, don’t speak excitedly, my love,’ he reply to the woman whose

tone have be subdue to scarce more than waver. ‘you see how I meet

it: water off a duck’s back, or indian solar beam on the skin of a

Hindoo! I despise it hardly worth contempt;--But, come: our day be

a good one. Fenellan work well. Old Colney be Colney Durance, of

course. he do no real mischief.’



‘and you will not determine to enter Lakelands--not yet, dear?’ say

Nataly.



‘my own girl, leave it all to I.’



‘but, Victor, I must, must know.’



‘see the case. you have lot of courage. we cann’t withdraw. her

intention be mischief. I believe the woman keep herself alive for it:

we’ve give she another lease!--though it can only be for a very short

time; Themison be precise; carle too. if we hold back--I have great

faith in Themison--the woman’s breath on we be confirm. we go down,

then; complete the furnishing, quite leisurely; accept--listen--accept

one or two invitation: impossible to refuse!--but they be

accepted!--and we defy she: a crazy old creature: imago herself the

wife of the ex-Premier, widow of Prince Le Boo, engage to the Chinese

Ambassador, et caetera. leave the tussle with that woman to I. no, we

don’t repeat the error of Crayc Farm and Creckholt. and here we

have stout friend. not to speak of Beaver Urmsing: a picture of Old

Christmas England! you take to him?--must have take to Beaver Urmsing!

the Marigolds! and Sir Rodwell and Lady Blachington be altogether

above the mark of Sir Humphrey and Lady Pottil, and those half and half

Mountneys. there’s a warm centre of home in Lakelands. but I know my

Nataly: she be think of our girl. here be the plan: we stand our

ground: my dear soul willn’t forsake I only there’s the thought of Fredi,

in the event... improbable enough. I lift Fredi out of the atmosphere

awhile; she go to my cousin the Duvidney lady.’



Nataly be hit by a shot. ‘can you imagine it, victor?’



‘regard it as do.’



‘they will surely decline!’



‘their feeling for General Radnor be a worship.’



‘all the more...?’



‘the son inherit it. he go to they personally. have you ever know I

personally fail? fredi stay at moorsedge for a month or two. Dorothea

and Virginia Duvidney will give she a taste of a new society; good for

the girl. all these little shifting can be turn to good. meantime, I

say, we stand our ground: but you be not to be worry; for though we

have go too far to recede, we need not and we will not make the entry

into Lakelands until--you know: that be, auspiciously, to suit you in

every way. thus I provide to meet contingency. what one may really

fancy be, that the woman do but threaten. there’s her point of view to

be consider: silly, crazy; but one see it. we be not sure that she

strike a blow at Craye or Creckholt. I wonder she never write. she be

frightened, when she come to manage her property, of sign her name to

anything. Absurd, that send of Jarniman! however, it’s her move; we

make a corresponding disposition of our chessman.’



‘and I be to lose my Nesta for a month?’ Nataly say, after catch

here and there at the fitful gleam of truce or comfort drop from his

word. and simultaneously, the reproach of her mind to her nature for

again and so constantly yield to the domination of his initiative:

unable to find the word, even the idea, to withstand him,--brought

big tear. angry at herself both for the internal feebleness and the

exhibition of it, she blink and beg excuse. there might be nothing

that should call she to resist he. she could not do much bad than

she have do to-day. the reflection, that to-day she have be actually

sustain by the expectation of a death to come, diminish her estimate

of to-morrow’s burden on her endurance, in make she seem a less

criminal woman, who would have no such expectation: which be virtually

a stab at a fellow creature’s future. her head be acute to work in the

direction of the casuistry and the sensational webs and film. face

Victor, it be a block.



but the thought come: how could she meet those people about Lakelands,

without support of the recent guilty whisper! she say coldly, her

heart shake she: ‘you think there have be a recovery?’



‘invalid be up and down. they be--well, no; I should think she dread

the...’ he keep ‘surgeon’ out of hearing. ‘or else she mean this for

the final stroke: “though I’m lie here, I can still make he feel.”

 that, or--poor woman--she have her notion of right and wrong.’



‘could we not now travel for a few week, victor?’



‘certainly, dear; we will, after we have keep our engagement to dine--I

accept--with the Blathenoys, the Blachingtons, Beaver Urmsing.’



Nataly’s vision of the peaceful lose little dairy cottage swell to

brilliance, like the large tear at the fall; darken under her present

effort to comprehend the necessity it be for he to mix and be foremost

with the world. unable to grasp it perfectly in mind, her compassionate

love embrace it: she blame herself, for be the obstruction to he.



‘very well,’ she say on a sigh. ‘then we shall not have to let our girl

go from we?’



‘just a few week. in the middle of dinner, I scribble a telegram to

the Duvidneys, for Skepsey to take.’



‘speak of Nesta?’



‘of my come to-morrow. they willn’t stop I. I dine with they, sleep at

the Wells; hotel for a night. we be to be separate for a night.’



she lay her hand in his and give he a pass view of her face: ‘for

two, dear. I be... that man’s visit--rather shake: I shall have a

well chance of sleep if I know I be not disturb you.’



she be firm; and they kiss and part. each have an unphrased

speculation upon the power of Mrs. Burman to put division between they.









CHAPTER XXIII. treat of the lady’ LAPDOG TASSO for an INSTANCE of

momentous effect PRODUCED by VERY minor cause



the maiden lady Dorothea and Virginia Duvidney be thin--sweet

old-fashioned grey gentlewoman, demurely conscious of their excellence

and awake to the temptation in the consciousness, who impose a certain

reflex primness on the lip of the world when address they or when

allude to they. for their appearance be picturesque of the ancestral

time, and their idea and scrupulousness of delivery suggest the

belate in ripeness; orchard apple under a snow-storm; or any image

that will ceremoniously convey the mind’s profound appreciation together

with the tooth’s panic dread of tartness. they be by no means tart;

only, as you know, the tooth be apprehensively nervous; an uninviting

sign will set it on edge. even the pen which would sketch they have a

spell on it and must don its coat of office, walk the liveried footman

behind they.



their wealth, their deed of charity, their modesty, their build grey

lock, their high repute; a ‘chippendale elegance’ in a quaintly formal

correctness, that they have, as Colney Durance call it; give they some

queenliness, and allow they to claim the ear as an oracle and banish

rebellious argument. intuitive knowledge, assist by the Rev. Stuart

Rem and the Rev. Abram Posterley, enable they to pronounce upon man and

thing; not without effect; their country own it; the foreigner behold

it. nor be they corrupt by the servility of the surround ear.

they be good woman, strive to be humbly good. they might, for all

the little error they nightly unroll to then perception, have stand

before the world for a study in the white of our humanity. and this may

be but a wash wall, it be true: revolutionary sceptic be measure

the depth of it. but the hue refreshe, the world admire; and we

know it an object of aim to the bettermost of the wealthy. if, happily,

complacent circumstance have lift we to the clean paved platform out

of grip of puddle clay and bespattering wheeltrack, we get our chance

of come to it.



Possessing, for example, nine thousand pound per annum in Consols, and

not expend the whole of it upon our luxury, we be, without further

privation, near to kindle the world’s enthusiasm for whiteness. yet

there, too, we find, that character have its problem to solve; there be

shade in salt. we must be charitable, but we should be just; we give to

the poor of the land, but we be eminently the friend of our servant;

duty to mankind divert we not from the love we bear to our dog; and

with a pathetic sorrow for silt, we discard it from sight and hearing.

we hate dirt. having say so much, having show it, by seal the

mouth of Mr. Stuart Rem and ice the vein of Mr. Abram Posterley, in

relation to a dreadful public case and a melancholy private, we have a

pleased sense of entry into the world’s ideal.



at the same time, we protest our unworthiness. acknowledgeing that they

be not purely spotless, these lady genuinely take the tiny fly-spot

for a spur to purification; and they view it as a patch to raise

in relief their goodness. they gaze on it, see themselves in it, and

veil it: warn of the cunning of an oft-defeat Tempter.



to do good and sleep well, be their sowing and their reaping. uneasy

conscience could not have sleep. the sleeping serve for proof of an

accurate reckoning and an expungeing of the day’s debit. they differ

in opinion now and then, as we see companion wave of the river, blow

by a gust, roll a shadow between they; and almost equally transient be

their difference with a world that they condemn when they could not

feel they (as an embodiment of their principle) be lead it. the

english world at time betray a restiveness in the walled pathway of

virtue; for, alas, it closely neighbour the French; only a Channel,

often dangerously smooth, to divide: but it be not pervert for long;

and the English Funds be always constant and a tower. would they be

suffer to be so, if libertinism be in the ascendant?



Colney Durance be acquaint with the Duvidney lady. hearing of the

journey to they and the purport of it, he say, with the mask upon glee:

‘then Victor have meet his match!’ Nataly have send for he to dine with

she in Victor’s absence: she be far from grieved, as to the result, by

his assurance to she, that Victor have not a chance. Colney think so.

‘just like he! to be off gaily to try and overcome or come over the

great power in England.’ they be England herself; the squat

old woman she have become by reason of her overlap number of

the comfortable fund-holder annuitant: a vast body of passive and

negative, live by precept, accord to rule of precedent,

and suppose themselves to be righteously guide because of their

continue undisturbed. they he brand, as hypocritical materialist,

and the country for pride in her sweetmeat plethora of them:--mixed with

an ancient hebrew fear of offence to an inscrutable Lord, eccentrically

appeasable through the dreary iteration of the litany of sinfulness. he

be near a truth; and he have the heat of it on he.



satirist in their fervour might be near it to grasp it, if they could

be move to moral distinctness, mental intention, with a preference of

strong plain speech over the crack of their whip. Colney could not or

would not praise our modern adventurous, experimental, heroic, tramp

active, as oppose to yonder pursy passive and negative; he have

occasion for flick the fellow sharply: and to speak of the Lord as

our friend present with we, palpable to Reason, perceptible to natural

piety solely through the reason, which justify punishment; that would

have stop his mouth upon the theme of God-forsake creature. our

satirist be an executioner by profession, a moralist in excuse, or

at the tail of it; though he think the position reverse, when he

moralize angrily to have his angry use of the scourge condone.

nevertheless, he fill a serviceable place; and certainly he be not

happy in his business. Colney suffer as heavily as he strike. if he

have be no more than a mime in the motley of satire, he would have

suck compensation from the acid of his phrase, for the failure to

prick and goad, and work amendment.



he dramatize to Nataly some of the scene go on at the Wells:

Victor’s petition; his fugue in urgency of it; the brief reply of Miss

Dorothea and her mute echo Miss Virginia. he be rather their apologist

for refuse. but, as when, after himself listen to their ‘view,’ he

have deferentially withdraw from the lady of Moorsedge, and have then

behold their strangely-hat lieutenant and the regiment of the

toneless respectable on the pantile and the mount, the curse upon

the satirist impel he to generalize. the quiet good lady be

multiply: they be ‘the thousand of their sister, petticoate

or long-coat or buck-skin; comfortable annuitant under clerical

shepherding, close upon outnumber the labourer they paralyze at home

and stultify abroad.’ Colney thump away. the country’s annuitant have

for type ‘the figure with the helmet of the Owl-Goddess and the trident

of the Earth-shaker, seat on a wheel, at the back of penny-piece; in

whom you see neither the beauty of nakedness nor the charm of drapery;

not the helmet’s dignity or the trident’s power; but she have patently

that which stop the wheel; and pose for representative of an

imperial nation, she help to pass a penny.’ so he pass his

epigram, heedless of the understanding or attention of his hearer; who

temporarily misjudge he for a man impel by the vanity of literary

point and finish, when indeed it be hot satiric spite, justify of its

aim, which crush a class to extract a drop of scathing acid, in the

interest of the country, mankind as well. Nataly want a picture

paint, colour and detail, that she might get a vision of the scene

at moorsedge. she do she good to feel an omen and sound it, in his

question ‘whether the yearly increase army of the orderly annuitant

and their parasite do not demonstrate the proud old country as a

sheath for pith rather than of the vital run of sap.’



perhaps it be patriotic to inquire; and doubtless she be the weak

of woman; she could follow no thought; her heart be beat blindly

beside Victor, hope for the refusal painful to she through his

disappointment.



‘you think I foolish,’ she make answer to one of Colney’s shrug; ‘and

it have come to that pitch with I, that I cannot be sensible of a merit

except in be one with he--obeying, be the word. and I have never yet

know he fail. that terrible Lakelands wear a different look to I,

when I think of what he can do; though I would give half my day to

escape it.’



she harp on the chord of feverish extravagance; the more hateful to

Colney because of his perceiving, that she simulate a blind devotedness

to stupefy her natural pride; and he be divide between stamp on she

for an imbecile and dash at Victor for a maniac. but her situation

render her pitiable. ‘you will learn tomorrow what Victor have do,’

he say, and think how the simple word carry the bitterness.



that be utter within a few minute of midnight, when the lady of

moorsedge themselves, after an exhausting resistance to their dear

relative, be at the hall-door of the house with Victor, say the

good-night, to which he respond hurriedly, cordially, dumbly, a

baffle man. they clasp hand. Miss Dorothea say:



‘you, Victor, always.’ Miss Virginia say: ‘you will be sure of

welcome.’ he walk out upon the moonless night; and for lack of any

rounded object in the smothering darkness to look at, he could nowhere

take mooring to gather himself together and define the man who have

undergo so portentous a defeat. he be glad of quarter at an hotel, a

solitary bed, absence from his Nataly.



for their part, the lady be not less shattered. they have no triumph

in their victory: the weight of it bear they down. they close, locked,

shoot the bolt and fasten the chain of the door. they have to be

remind by the shaking of their darling dog Tasso’s curly silky coat,

that he have not take his evening’s trot to notify malefactor of his

watchfulness and official wrath at sound of footfall or a fancied one.

without consultation, they unbolt the door, and Tasso go forth, to

‘compose his vesper hymn,’ as Mr. Posterley once remark amusingly.



though not pretend to the Muse’s crown so far, the little dog have

quality to entrance the spinster sex. his mistress talk of he;

of his readiness to go forth; of the audible first line of his hymn

or sonnet; of his instinct tell he that something be wrong in the

establishment. for most of the servant at Moorsedge be prostrate by

a fashionable epidemic; a slight attack, the doctor say; but Montague,

the butler, have withdraw for the nursing of his wife; Perrin, the

footman, be confine to his chamber; Manton, the favourite maid, have

appear in the morning with a face that cause her banishment to bed;

and the cook, Mrs. Bannister, then sighingly agree to send up cold meat

for the lady’ dinner. hence their melancholy inhospitality to their

cousin Victor, who have, in spite of his error, the right to claim his

place at their table, be ‘of the blood,’ they say. he be recognize

as the live prince of it. his every gesture, every word, recall the

General. the try scene with he have wither they, they do not speak

of it; each have to the other the look of a vessel that have come out of

a gale. would they sleep? they scarcely dare ask it of themselves. they

have do rightly; silence upon that reflection seem well. it be

the silence of an inward agitation; still they know the power of good

conscience to summon sleep.



Tasso be usually time for five minute. they be astonish to

discover by the clock, that they have give he ten. he be very quiet:

if so, and for whatever he do, he have his reason, they say: he be a

dog endow with reason: endow--and how they wish that Mr. Stuart

Rem would admit it!--with, their love of the little dog believe (and

Mr. Posterley acquiesce), a soul. do but think it of dear animal, and

any form of cruelty to they become an impossibility, Mr. Stuart

Rem! but he would not be convince: ungenerously indeed he name Mr.

Posterley a courtier. the lady could have retort, that Mr. Posterley

have not a brother who be the celebrated surgeon Sir Nicholas Rem.



usually Tasso came run in when the hall-door be open to he. not

a sound of he could be hear. the lady blow his familiar whistle.

he trot back to a third appeal, and be, unfortunately for they, not

caress; he receive reproach from two forefinger direct straight

at his reason. he see it and feel it. the hug of he be defer to the

tender good-night to he in his basket at the foot of the lady’ bed.



on enter their spacious bed-chamber, they be so fatigued that

sleep appear to their mind the compensate logical deduction. Miss

Dorothea suppress a yawn, and inflict it upon Miss Virginia, who

return it, with an apology, and immediately have her sister’s hand on

her shoulder, for, an attempt control of one of the irresistible; a

spectacle impart bitter shudder and shot to the sympathetic jawbone

of an observer. hand at mouth, for not in privacy would they have be

guilty of expose a grimace, they signify, under an interim smile,

their maidenly submission to the ridiculous force of nature: after

which, Miss Virginia retire to the dressing-room, absorb in woeful

recollection of the resolute no they have be compel to reiterate,

in response to the most eloquent and, save for a single instance,

admirable man, their cousin, the representative of ‘the blood,’

supplicate they. a recreant thankfulness coil within her bosom at

the thought, that Dorothea, true to her office of speaker, have task

herself with the cruel utterance and repetition of the word. victor’s

wonderful eye, his voice, yet more than his urgent plea; and also, in

the midst of his fiery flood of speech, his gentleness, his patience,

pathos, and a man’s tone through it all; be present to she.



disrobe, she knock at the door.



‘I have call to you twice,’ Dorothea say; and she look a motive for

the call.



‘what be it?’ say Virginia, with falter sweetness, with a terrible

divination.



the movement of a sigh be make. ‘be you aware of anything, dear?’



Virginia be take with the contrary movement of a sniff. but the fear

inform it prevent it from be venturesome. doubt of the pure

atmosphere of their bed-chamber, appear to she as too heretic even for

the positive essay. in affirm, that she be not aware of anything,

her sight fall on Tasso. his eyeball be those of a little dog that

have be awfully question.



‘it be more than a suspicion,’ say Dorothea; and plainly now, while

open to the seduction of any pleasing infidel testimony, her nose in

repugnance convict he absolutely.



Virginia’s nose be lower a few inch; it inhale and stop midway.

‘you must be mistaken, dear. he never... ‘



‘but be you insensible to the...’ Dorothea’s eyelid faint.



Virginia dismiss the forlornest of effort at incredulity. a whiff of

Tasso have smite she. ‘ah!’ she exclaim and fall away. ‘be it Tasso!

how be it you notice nothing before undressing, dear?’



‘think of what we have go through to-night! I forget he. at last

the very strange... the like of it I have not ever!... and upon that

thick coat! and, dear, it be late. we be in the morning hour.’



‘but, my dear-oh, dear, what be to be do with he?’



that be the crucial point for discussion. they have no servant to

give they aid; Manton, they could not dream of disturb. and Tasso’s

character be in the estimate; he hate washing; it balefully deprave

his temper; and not only, creature of habit that he be, would he

decline to lie down anywhere save in their bedroom, he would lament,

plead, insist unremittingly, if exclude; terrify every poor

invalid of the house. then again, be they at this late hour to dress

themselves, and take he downstairs, and light a fire in the kitchen,

and boil sufficient water to give he a bath and scrub? cold water

would be death to he. besides, he would ring out his alarum for the

house to hear, pour out all his poetry, poor dear, as Mr. Posterley

call it, at a touch of cold water. the catastrophe be one to weep

over, the dilemma a trial of the strong intelligence.



in addition to review of their solitary alternative-the having of a

befoul degrade little dog in their chamber through the night, they

be subject to a conflict of emotion when eye he: and there

come to they the painful, perhaps irreverent, perhaps uncharitable,

thought:--that the sinner who have roll in the abominable, must cleanse

he and do thing to polish he and perfume before again embrace even

by the mind: if indeed we can ever have our old sentiment for he again!

Mr. Stuart Rem might decide it for they. Nay, before even the heart

embrace he, he must completely purify himself. that be to say, the

ordinary human sinner--save when a relative. Contemplating Tasso, the

heart of the lady gush out in pity of an innocent little

dog, know not evil, dependent on his friend for help to be

purified;--necessarily keep at a distance: the very look of he

prescribe extreme separation, as far as practicable. but they have proof

of a love almost great than it be previous to the offence, in the

tender precaution they take to elude repulsion.



he be roll on the rug, communicate contagion. flask of

treble-distil lavender water, and their favourite, traditional in the

family, eau d’Arquebusade, be on the toilet-table. they sprinkle

his basket, liberally sprinkle the rug and the little dog.

perfume-pastille be in one of the sitting-room below; and Virginia

would have go down softly to fetch a box, but Dorothea restrain she,

in pity for the servant, with the remark: ‘it would give we a nightmare

of a Roman Catholic Cathedral!’ a bit of the window be lift by

Dorothea, cautiously, that prowl outsider might not be attract.

Tasso be woo to his basket. he seem inquisitive; the antidote of

his naughtiness excite he; his tail circle after his muzzle several

time; then he lay. a silken scarf steep in eau d’Arquebusade be

fling across he.



their customary devout observance conclude, light be extinguish,

and the lady kiss, and enter their bed.



their bed be not homely to they. Dorothea think that Virginia be

long in settle herself. Virginia do not like the sound of Dorothea’s

double sigh. both listen anxiously for the doing of Tasso. he rest.



he be uneasy; he be round his basket once more; unaware of the

exaggeration of his iniquitous conduct, poor innocent, he shake that

dreadful coat of his! he have displace the prophylactic cover of the

scarf.



he drive they in a despair to speculate on the contention between the

perfume and the stench in junction, with such a doubt of the victory

of which of the two, as drag we to fear our bad. it steal into our

nostril, possess they. as the history of Mankind have inform we, we

be lead up to our civilization by the nose. but Philosophy warn we on

that eminence; to beware of trust exclusively to our conductor, lest

the mind of we at least be plunge back into barbarism. the lady

hate both the cause and the consequence, they have a revulsion from the

object, of the above contention. but call it not a contention: there be

nobility in that. this be a compromise, a degrade union, with very

sicken result. whether they come of an excess of the sprinkling,

could not well be guess. the drenching at least be righteously

intend.



beneath their shut eyelid, they feel more and more the oppression of a

darkness not laden with slumber. they see it insolidity; themselves

as restless billow, drive dashing to the despondent sigh. sleep be

deny they.



Tasso sleep. he have sin unknowingly, and that be not a spiritual sin;

the chastisement confer the pardon.



but why be this ineffable blessing deny to they? be it that they

might have a survey of all the day’s deed and examine they under the

cruel black beam of Insomnia?



Virginia say: ‘you be wakeful.’



‘thoughtful,’ be the answer.



a century of the midnight roll on.



Dorothea say: ‘he behave very beautifully.’



‘I look at the General’s portrait while he besought we,’ Virginia

reply.



‘one see he in Victor, at Victor’s age. try to sleep.’



‘I do. I pray that you may.’



Silence court slumber. their interchange of speech from the posture of

body on their back, have be low and deliberate, in the tone of

the vault. dead silence recall the strangeness of it. the night

be breathless; their open window a peril bestow no boon. they be

mutually haunt by sound of the gloomy query at the nostril of each

when draw the vital breath. but for that, they think they might

have sleep.



Bed spake to bed:



‘the word of Mr. Stuart Rem last Sunday!’ ‘he say: “be just.” could

one but see direction!’



‘in obscurity, feeling be a guide.’



‘the heart.’



‘it may sometimes be follow.’



‘when it concern the family.’



‘he would have the living, who be seek peace, be just.’



‘not to assume the seat of justice.’



again they lie as tombstone effigy, that have commit the passage of

affair to another procession of the Ages.



there be a gentle sniff, in hopeless confirmation of the experience of

its predecessor. a sister to it ensue.



‘could Victor have speak so, without assurance in his conscience, that

his entreaty be righteously address to we? that we...’



‘and no other!’



‘I think of his language. he love the child.’



‘in heart as in mind, he be eminently gift; acknowledge error.’



‘he be very young.’



the huge funereal minute conduct their sonorous hearse, the hour.



it strike in the bed-room: three.



no more than three of the clock, it be the voice telling of half the

precious restorative night-hour waste.



now, as we close our eyelid when we would go to sleep, so must we,

in expectation of the peace of mind grant we the sweet oblivion,

preliminarily do something which invoke, that we may obtain it.



‘dear,’ Dorothea say.



‘I know indeed,’ say Virginia.



‘we may have be!’



‘not designingly.’



‘indeed not. but harsh it may be name, if the one innocent be to be the

sufferer.’



‘the child can in no sense be adjudge guilty.’



‘it be Victor’s child.’



‘he adore the child.’



wheel be in mute motion within they; and presently the remark be

toss-up:



‘in his come to we, it be possible to see paternal solicitude’



Thence come fruit of reflection:



‘to be instrumental as guide to a tender young life!’



reflection heat with vision:



‘once our dream!’



they have the happy feeling of composure, though Tasso possess

the room. not Tasso, but a sublimated offensiveness, issue of the

antagonistically combine, disperse to be the more penetrate;

insomuch that it seem to they they could not ever again make use of

eau d’Arquebusade without the vitiating reminder. so true be the word

of Mr. Stuart Rem: ‘half measure to purification be the most delusive

of our artifice.’ fatigue and its reflection help to be peacefull.

their soul be mount to a serenity above the nauseating

degradation, to which the poor little dog have drag they.



‘Victor give his promise.’



‘at least, concession would not imply contact with the guilty.’



both sigh as they take up the burden of the vaporous Tasso to drop

he; with the great satisfaction in the expelling of their breath.



‘it might be say, dear, that concession to his entreaty do not in any

way countenance the sin.’



‘I can see, dear, how it might be read as a reproof.’



their exchange of sentence follow meditative pause; Dorothea

lead.



‘to one so sensitive as Victor!’



‘a month or two of our society for the child!’



‘it be not the length of time.’



‘the limitation assure against maternal claim.’



‘she would not dare.’



‘he use the word: “her serious respect” for we. I should not wish to

listen to he often.’



‘we listen to a high.’



‘it may really be, that the child be like he.’



‘not resemble Mr. Stuart Rem’s Clementina!’



‘a week of that child give we our totally sleepless night.’ ‘one think

more hopefully of a child of Victor’s.’



‘he would preponderate.’



‘he would.’



they sigh; but it be now with the relief of a lightened oppression.



‘if, dear, in truth the father’s look be in the child, he have the

great reason to desire for she a taste of our atmosphere.’



‘do not pursue it. sleep.’



‘one prayer!’



‘your mention of our atmosphere, dear, destroy my power to frame one.

do you, for two. but I would cleanse my heart.’



‘there be none purer.’



‘hush.’



Virginia speak a more fervent word of praise of her sister, and have not

the hushing response to it. she hear the soft regular breathing. her

own be in downy fellowship with it a moment later.



at the hour of nine, in genial daylight, sit over the crumb of his

hotel breakfast, Victor receive a little note that bear the handwriting

of Dorothea Duvidney.



   ‘Dear Victor, we be prepared to receive the child for a month.

   in haste, before your train. our love. D. and V.’



his face flash out of cloud.



a more precious document have never be hand to he. it chase back to

midnight the doubt hover over his belief in himself;--phrased to

say, that he be no long the Victor Radnor know to the world. and it

extinguish a corpse-like recollection of a baleful dream in the night.

here shine radiant witness of his be the very man; save for the spot

of his recent confusion in distinguish his identity or in feeling

that he stand whole and solid.--Because of two mature maiden lady?

yes, because of two maiden lady, my good fellow. and friend Colney,

you know the lady, and what the getting round they for one’s purpose

really mean.



the sprite of Colney Durance have strike he smartly overnight. victor’s

internal crow be over Colney now. and when you have the optimist

and pessimist acutely oppose in a mixing group, they direct lively

conversation at one another across the gulf of distance, even of

time. for a principle be involve, besides the knowledge of the other’s

triumph or dismay. the couple be scale of a balance; and not before

last night have Victor ever consent to think of Colney ascend while

he drop low to graze the pebble.



he leave his hotel for the station, singe the great aria of the fourth

Act of the Favorita: neglect since that mighty German with his

Rienzi, and Tannhauser, and Tristan and Isolda, have master he, to

the displacement of his boyhood’s beloved sugary -inis and -antes

and-zettis; have clearly master, not beguile, he; have waft he up

to a new realm, invigorate if severer. but now his youth would have

its voice. he travel up to town with Sir Abraham Quatley and talk,

and take and give hint upon City and commercial affair, while the

honey italian of the conventional, gloriously animal, stress and

flutter have a revel in his vein, now and then mutedly ebullient at the

mouth: honey, golden, rich in visions;--having surely much more of

Nature’s encouragement to her child?









CHAPTER XXIV. NESTA’S ENGAGEMENT



a word in his ear from Fenellan, touch that man Blathenoy, set the

wheel of Victor’s brain at work upon his defence, for a minute, on

the walk Westward. who knew?--who do not know! he have a torpid

consciousness that he cringe to the world, with an entreaty to the

great monster to hold off in ignorance; and the next instant, he have

catch its miserable spy by the lurcher neck and be tower. he

dwelt on his contempt of they, to curtain the power they could stir.



‘the little woman, you say, take to Dartrey?’



Fenellan, with the usual apologetic moderation of a second statement,

think ‘there be the look of it.’



‘well, we must watch over she. Dartrey!--but Dartrey’s an honest fellow

with woman. but man be man. very few man spare a woman when the mad fit

be on she. a little woman-pretty little woman!--wife to Jacob Blathenoy!

she mustn’t at her age have any close choosing--under her hand. and

Dartrey’s just the figure to strike a spark in a tinder-box head.’



‘with a husband who’d reduce Minerva’s to tinder, after a month of he!’



‘he spend his honeymoon at his place at Wrensham; tell I so.’ blathenoy

have therefore then hear of the building of Lakelands by the Victor

Radnor of the City; and have then, we guess--in the usual honeymoon

boasting of a windbag with his bride--wheeze the foul gossip, to hide

his emptiness and do duty for amusement of the pretty little cage bird.

probably so. but Victor know that Blathenoy need he and fear

he. probably the wife have be enjoin to keep silence; for the

Blachingtons, fanning and other be, it could be swear, blank and

unscratched folio sheet on the subject:--as yet; unless Mrs. Burman have

drop venom.



‘one pity the little woman, eh, Fenellan?’



‘Dartrey willn’t be back for a week or so; and they’re off to Switzerland,

after the dinner they give. I hear from he this morning; one of the

Clanconans be ill.



‘lucky. but wherever Blathenoy take she, he must be the same “arid

bore,” as old Colney say.’



‘a domestic simoom,’ say Fenellan, boom it: and Victor have a

shudder.



‘awful thing, marriage, to some woman! we chain they to that domestic

round; most of they haven’t the mean of independence or a chance of

win it; and all that’s open to they, if they’ve make a bad cast for

a mate--and good Lord! how be they to know before it’s too late!--they

haven’t a choice except to play trick or jump to the deuce or sit and

“drape in blight,” as Colney have it; though his notion of the optional

marriage, break or renew every seven years!--if he mean it. you

never know, with he. it sound like another squirt of savage irony.

it’s donkey nonsense, eh?’



‘the very hee-haw of nonsense,’ Fenellan acquiesce.



‘come, come; read your scripture; donkey have show wisdom,’ Victor

say, rather lean to the theme of a fretfulness of woman in the legal

yoke. ‘they’re donkey till we know they for prophet. who can tell!

Colney may be hail for one fifty year hence.’



Fenellan be not invite to enter the house, although the loneliness

of his lodgeing be know, and also, that he play whist at his Club.

Victor have ground for turn to he at the door and squeeze his

hand warmly, by way of dismissal. in ascribe they to a weariness at

Fenellan’s perpetual acquiescence, he put the cover on they, and he

stamp it with a repudiation of the charge, that Colney’s view upon

the great Marriage Question be the ‘very hee-haw of nonsense.’ they

be not the hee-haw; in fact, view the host of marriage, they be

for discussion; there be no bray about they. he could not feel they to

be absurd while Mrs. Burman’s tenure of existence bar the ceremony.

anything for a phrase! he murmur of Fenellan’s talk; call he, dear

old boy, to soften the slight.



Nataly have not see Fenellan or hear from Dartrey; so she continue to

be uninformed of her hero’s release; and that be in the order of happy

accident. she have hardly to look her interrogation for the news; it

radiate. but he state such matter-of-course briefly. ‘the good lady

be ready to receive our girl.’



her chagrin resolve to a kind of solace of her draggled pride, in the

idea, that he who tame everybody to submission, might well have command

of she.



the note, sign D. and V., be show.



there stand the word. and last night she have be partly of the opinion

of Colney Durance. she sink down among the unreasone abject;--not this

time with her perfect love of he, but with a resistance and a dubiety

under compression. for she have not quite comprehend why Nesta should

go. this readiness of the Duvidney lady to receive the girl, stop

her mental inquiry.



she beg for a week’s delay; ‘before the parting’; as her dear old

silly mother’s pathos whimper it, of the separation for a month! and

he smile and hum pleasantly at any small petition, think she in

error to expect Dartrey’s return to town before the close of a week; and

then wonder at woman, mildly denouncing in his heart the mother who

run risk of disturb their daughter’ bosom with regard to particular

hero marry or not. Dartrey attract woman: he be one of the man

who do it without effort. victor’s provident mind blame the mother for

the indiscreetness of her wish to have he among they. but Dudley have

be make way bravely of late; he improve; he begin to bloom, like a

Spring flower of the garden protect from frost under glass; and Fredi

be the shelter and nourishing bestower of the lesson. one could

see, his question and other little point reveal, that he have a

certain lover’s dread of Dartrey Fenellan; a sort of jealousy: Victor

understand the feeling. to love a girl, who have her ideal of a man

elsewhere in another; though she may know she never can wed the man, and

have not the hope of it; be torment to the lover quailing, as we do in

this terrible season of the priceless deliciousness, strip against

all the wind that blow; skinless at time. one get up a sympathy for

the poor shy dependent shivering lover. nevertheless, here be young

Dudley wake, visibly become bold. as in the flute-duet, he gain

fire from concert. the distance between Cronidge and Moorsedge be two

mile and a quarter.



instead of the delay of a whole week, Victor grant four day, which

embrace a musical evening at Mrs. John Cormyn’s on the last of the

day, when Nesta be engage to sing with her mother a duet of her own

composition, the first public fruit of her lesson in counterpoint from

rigid Herr Strauscher, who have say what he have say, in let it

pass: eulogy, come from he. so Victor hear, and he doate be the

surprise to come for he, in a boyish anticipation. the girl’s little

french ballad under tutelage of Louise de Seilles promise, though they

be imitative. if Strauscher let this pass... Victor see Grand Opera

somewhere to follow; England’s claim to be a creative musical nation

vindicate; and the genius of the fair sex as well.



he hear the duet at Mrs. Cormyn’s; and he imagine a hearing of

his Fredi’s Opera, and her godmother’s delight in it; the once fame

Sanfredini’s consent to be the diva at a rehearsal, and then she

compel her hidalgo duque to consent far: an event not

inconceivable. for here be downright genius; the flower aloe of the

many year in formation; and Colney admit the song to have a streak

of genius; though he would pettishly and stupidly say, that our modern

newspaper Press be able now to force genius for we twenty or so to the

month, exclude Sundays-our short pause for the incubation of it. real

rare genius be in that song, nothing force; and exquisite melody; one

of those melody which fle gold chain about we and lead we off, lead

we back into Eden. victor hum at bar of it on the drive homeward.

his darling have to sing it again in the half-light drawing-room.

the bubble-happiness of the three be vex only by tiding hear from

Colney during the evening of a renew instance of Skepsey’s misconduct.

Priscilla Graves have hurry away to he at the close of Mr. John

Cormyn’s Concert, in consequence; in grief and in sympathy. Skepsey be

to appear before the magistrate next morning, for having administer

physical chastisement to his wife during one of her fit of drunkenness.

Colney have see he. his version of the story be give, however, in the

objectionable humorous manner: none could gather from it of what might

be plead for Skepsey. his ‘lesson to his wife in the art of pugilism,

before grant her Captain’s rank among the Defensive Amazons of Old

England,’ be the customary patent absurdity. but it be odd, that

Skepsey always prefer his appeal for help to Colney Durance. Nesta

propose follow Priscilla that night. she have hint her wish, on the

way home; she be urgent, beseech, when her father lift praise

of she: she have to start with her father by the train at seven in the

morning, and she could not hear of poor Skepsey for a number of hour.

she beg a day’s delay; which would enable she, she say, to join they

in dining at the blachington’, and see dear lakeland again. ‘I be

invite, you know.’ she speak in childish style, and under her eye she

behold her father and mother exchange look. he have a fear that Nataly

might support the girl’s petition. Nataly read he to mean, possible

danger among the people at Wrensham. she have seem hesitate. after

meet Victor’s look, her refusal be firm. she try to make it one of

distress for the use of the hard word to her own dear girl. Nesta spy

beneath.



but what be it? there be a reason for she go! she have a right to

stay, and see and talk with Captain Dartrey, and she be to be deport!



so now she set herself to remember little incident at Creckholt:

particularly a conversation in a very young girl’s hearing, upon Sir

Humphrey and Lady Pottil’s behaviour to the speaker, her parent. she

have then, and she now have, an extraordinary feeling, as from a wind

strike upon soft summer weather off region of ice, that she be in

her parent’ way. how? the feeling be irrational; it could give she

no reply, or only the multitudinous which be the question violently

repeat. she sleep on it.



she and her father breakfast by the London bird’ first twitter.

they talk of Skepsey. she speak of she go as exile. ‘no,’ say he,

‘you’re sure to meet friend.’



her cheek glow. it come wholly through the suddenness of the

recollection, that the family-seat of one among the friend be near the

Wells.



he be allow to fancy, as it suit he to fancy, that a vivid secret

pleasure lay the colour on those ingenuous fair cheek.



‘a solitary flute for I, for a month! I shall miss my sober comrade:

get the habit of duetting: and he’s gentle, bear with I.’



tear line her eyelid. ‘who would not be, dearest dada! but there be

nothing to bear except the honour.’



‘you like he? you and I always have the same taste, Fredi.’



now there be a reddening of the sun at the mount; all the sky aflame.

how could he know that it be not the heart in the face! she redden

because she have peruse his wish; have detect a scheme strike off

from they, and know a man to be the object of it; and because she have at

the same time the sense of a flattery in her quick divination; and she

be responsively emotional, her blood virginal; often it be a tropical

lightning.



it look like the heart do rich painter’s work on maiden feature.

Victor be naturally as deceive as he wish to be.



from his be naturally so, his remark on Dudley have an air of

embrace he as one of the family. ‘his manner to I just hit I.’



‘I like to see he with you,’ she say.



her father let his tongue run: ‘one of the few young man I feel

perfectly at home with! I do like deal with a gentleman. I can

confide in a gentleman: honour, heart, whatever I hold dearest.’



there he stop, not too soon. the girl be mute, fully agree,

slightly harden. she have a painful sense of separation from her dear

Louise. and it be now to be from her mother as well: she feel the pain

when kiss her mother in bed. but this be moderate by the prospect

of a holiday away out of reach of Mr. Barmby’s pursue voice, whom she

mother favour: and her mother be conceal something from she;

so she could not make the confidante of her mother. Nataly have no

forewarning. her simple regret fill her bosom. all night she have

be take her chastisement, and in the morning it seem good to she,

that she should be denude, for her girl to learn the felicity of have

relative.



for some reason, over which Nataly muse in the succeed hour, the

girl have not speak of any visit her mother be to pay to the Duvidney

lady or they to she. latterly she have not allude to her mother’s

family. it might mean, that the beloved and dread be lay finger

on a dark thing in the dark; read syllable by touch; keep silence

over the communication to a mind not yet actively speculative, as it be

a way with young woman. ‘with young woman educate for the market, to

be timorous, consequently secretive, rather snaky,’ Colney Durance have

say. her Nesta be not one of the ‘frame and glaze’ description,

cite by he, for an example of the triumph of the product; ‘exactly

harmonious with the ninny male’s ideal of female innocence.’ no; but

what if the mother have open her heart to her girl? it have be of late

her wish or a dream, shape hourly to a design, now positively to go

through that furnace. her knowledge of Victor’s objection, restrain

an impulse that have not win spring enough to act against his counsel or

vivify an intelligence grow dull in slavery under he, with regard

to the one seem right course. the adoption of it would have wound

he--therefore she. she have think of he first; she have also think

of herself, and she blame herself now. she go so far as to think,

that Victor be guilty of the schemer’s error of count human

creature arithmetically, in the sum, without the estimate of

distinctive quality and value here and there. his return to a

shivering sensitiveness on the subject of his girl’s enlightenment

‘just yet,’ for which Nataly pity and love he, share it, with

humiliation for do so, become finally her excuse. we must have some

excuse, if we would keep to life.



Skepsey’s case appear in the evening paper. he confess, ‘frankly,’

he say, to the magistrate, that, ‘act under temporary exasperation,

he have lose for a moment a man’s proper self-command.’ he be as frank

in state, that he ‘occupy the prisoner’s place before his worship a

second time, and be a second time indebted to the gentleman, Mr. Colney

Durance, who so kindly stand by he.’ there be hilarity in the Court at

his quaint sententious envelopment of the idiom of the street, which

he deliver with solemnity: ‘he could only plead, not in absolute

justification--an appeal to human sentiment--the feeling of a man of

the humbler order, return home in the evening, and his thought upon

thing not without their importance, to find repeatedly the guardian

of his household beastly drunk, and destructive.’ Colney make the case

quite intelligible to the magistrate; who gravely robe a strain of the

idiomatic in the officially awful, to keep in tune with his delinquent.

no serious harm have be do to the woman. Skepsey be admonish and

release. his wife express her willingness to forgive he, now he have

get his lesson; and she hope he would understand, that there be no

need for a woman to learn pugilism. Skepsey would have explain; but

the case be over, he be hustle out.



however, a keen young reporter present smell fun for copy; he follow

the couple; and in a particular evening Journal, laughable matter be

print concern Skepsey’s view of the pugilism to be impart to

woman for their physical-protection in extremity, and the distinction

of it from the blow convey the moral lesson to they; his wife having

object to the former, because it annoy she and he pester she; and

she be never, she say, ready to stand up to he for practice, as he

call it, except when she have take more than he think wholesome

for she: he have no sense. there be a squabble between they, because

he choose to scour away to his master’s office instead of conduct she

home with the honour. Nesta read the young reporter’s version, with

shriek. she lead the lady of Moorsedge to discover amusement in it.



at first, as her letter to her mother describe they, they be like a

pair of piece of costly China, with the settle smile, and cold. she

see but the outside of they, and she continue report the variation,

which steadily determine the warmth. on the night of the third day,

they kiss she tenderly; they be human figure.



no one could be aware of the trial undergo by the good lady in

receive she: victor’s child; but, as their phrase would have run,

have they dare to give it utterance to one another, a child of sin. how

foreign to they, in that character, how strange, when she be look on

as an inhabitant of their house, they hardly dare to estimate; until

the timorous estimation, from gradually swell, suddenly sink; nature

invade they; they could discard the alienate sense of the taint; and

not only do they no long fear the moment when Mr. Stuart Rem or Mr.

Posterley might call for evening tea, but they consult upon invite

the married one of those gentleman, to ‘divert dear Nesta.’ every night

she sleep well. in all she do, she prove she be ‘of the blood.’ she

have Victor’s animate eye; she might have, they dread to think,

his eloquence. they put it down to his eloquence entirely, that their

resistance to his petition have be overcome, for similarly with the

treatment of the private act of royal personage by lacquey History,

there be, in the mind of the ultra-civilized, an insistance, that

any event have a consequence in matter personal to they, be at all

hazard record with the utmost nicety in decency. by such mean, they

preserve the ceremonial self-respect, which be a necessity of their

existence; and so they maintain the regal elevation over the awe-strike

subject of their interior; who might otherwise revolt, pull down,

scatter, dishonour, expose for a shallow fiction the holy, the most

vital to they. a democratic evil spirit be abroad, generate among

congregation, often perilously communicate its wanton laughter to the

desperate wickedness they know (not solely through the monition of Mr.

Stuart Rem) to lurk within. it have to be exclude: on certain point

they must not think. the night of Tasso be darkly clouded in the mind

of the pure lady: a rift would have seize their half-slumber sense

of smell, to revive the night, perhaps disorder the stately march of

their intelligence.



Victor’s eloquence, Victor’s influence, Victor’s child he carry they

as a floodstream, insomuch, that their reception of this young creature

of the blot on her birth, be regard by they in the unmentione

abstract, and the child’s presence upon earth see with the indulgence

(without the naughty curiosity) of the loyal moral English for the

numerous offspring of the peccadillo of their monarch. these thing

pass muster from be ‘britannically cocoon in the purple,’ say our

irreverent satirist; and the maiden lady’ passion of devotion to ‘the

blood’ help to blind they; but still more so do the imperious urgency

to curtain closely the night of Tasso, throw all its consequence

upon Victor’s masterful tongue. whence it ensue (and here be the danger

for illogical individual as well as vast community, who continue to

batten upon fiction when the convenience of it have take the place of

pleasure), that they have need to exalt his eloquence, for a cloak to

their conduct; and do it, they fall into a habit of yield to he;

they disintegrate under he; rule, principle, morality, be shake

to some confusion. and still proceed thus, they now and then glance

back, more wonderingly than convict sinner upon their day of early

innocence, at the night when successfully they withstand he. they

who have doubt of the rightness of let Victor’s girl come into

collision with two clerical gentleman, one of whom be marry,

permit he now to bring the Hon. Dudley Sowerby to their house, and

make appointment to meet Mr. Dudley Sowerby under a roof that shelter

a young lady, evidently the allurement to the scion of aristocracy;

of whose family Mr. Stuart Rem have speak in the very kindling hush

tone, proper to the union of a sacerdotal and an english citizen’s

veneration.



how would it end? and if some day this excellent Mr. Dudley Sowerby

reproach they! he could not have a sweet bride, one more truly a

lady in education and manner; but the birth! the child’s name! their

trouble be emit in a vapour of interjection. very perplexing be it

for the good lady of strict principle to reflect, as dimly they

do, that the concrete presence of dear Nesta silence and overcame

objection to she be upon earth. she seem, as it be, a draught of

redoubtable nature inebriating morality. but would other be similarly

affect? victor might get his release, to do justice to the mother: it

would not cover the child. prize as they might the quality of the Radnor

blood (draw from the most ancient of original Britain’s prince), there

be also the Cantor blood for consideration; and it be old, noble,

proud. would it be satisfied in match itself with great wealth, a

radiant health, and the good look of a young flower? for the sake of

the dear girl, the lady hope that it would; and they enlarge the

outline of their wedding present, while, in their mind, the noble

english family which could be satisfied so, be lower, partake of

the taint they have personally cease to recognize.



of one thing they be sure, and it enlist they: the gentleman love

the girl. her love of he, have it be prominent to view, would have

stir a feminine sigh; not more, except a feminine lecture to follow.

she be quite uninflamed, fresh and cool as a spring. his ardour have no

disguise. they measure he by the favourite fiction’s hero of their

youth, and find he to gaze, talk, comport himself, accord to the

prescription; correct grammar, finished sentence, all that be expect

of a gentleman enamour; and ever with the watchful intentness for

his lady’s faint first dawn of an inclining to a wish. Mr. Dudley

Sowerby’s eye upon Nesta be really an apprentice. there be in Love’s

young season a magnanimity in the male kind. their superior strength

and knowledge be make subservient to the distaff of the weak and

shallower: they crown her queen; her look be their mandate. so be it

when Sir Charles and Sir Rupert and the estimable Villiers Davenant

touch maidenly heart to throb: so be it now, with the Hon. Dudley

Sowerby.



very haltingly, the lady be guilty of a suggestion to Victor. ‘oh!

Fredi?’ say he; ‘admire she, no doubt; and so do I, so we all do;

she’s one of the nice girl; but as to Cupid’s dart, she belong to the

cucumber family, and he shoot without fire. we shall do the mischief

if we put an interdict. don’t you remember the green day when obstacle

be the friction to light that match?’ their pretty nod of assent

display the virgin pride of the remembrance: they dream of having

once be exceedingly wilful; it refresh their nip nature; and

dwell on it, they forget to press their suggestion. incidentally,

he name the sum his Fredi would convey to her husband; with, as be

calculable, the further amount his only child would inherit. a curious

effect be produce on they. though they be not imaginatively

mercenary, as the creature taint with wealth commonly be, they

talk of the sum over and over in the solitude of their chamber. ‘duke

have marry for less.’ such an heiress, they say, might buy up a

principality. Victor have supply they with something of an apology to

the gentleman propose to Nesta in their house.



the chronicle of it be, that Dudley Sowerby do this on the fifteenth

day of September; and that it be not know to the damsel’s parent

before the twenty-third; as they be away on an excursion in South

Tyrol:--away, fly, with just a word of the hurried departure to their

envious, exile girl; though they do not tell she of new construction

at the London house partly cause they to fly. subject to their

consent, she write, she have give her. the letter be telegramic on the

essential point. she write of Mr. Barmby’s having visit Mr. Posterley

at the Wells, and she put it just as flatly. her principal concern, to

judge by her writing, be, to know what Mr. Durance have do, during her

absence, with the group of emissary-advocate of the various tongue of

Europe on board the steam-liner conduct they the first stage of their

journey to the Court of Japan.



Mr. Simeon Fenellan have write his opinion, that all these delegate of

the different european nationality be nothing other than dupe of

a New-York Syndicate of American Humorists, not without an eye on the

mainchance; and he be sure they would be set to debate publicly, before

an audience of high-price ticket, in the principal North American

Cities, previous to the embarcation for Japan at San Francisco. Mr.

Fenellan eulogize the immense astuteness of Dr. Gannius in take

his daughter Delphica with he. Dr. Gannius have single forth poor Dr.

Bouthoin for the object of his attack; but Nesta be chiefly anxious

to hear of Delphica’s proceeding; she be immensely interested in

Delphica, and envy she; and the girl’s funny speculation over the

play of Delphica’s diver art upon the Greek, and upon the Russian,

and upon the english curate Mr. Semhians, and upon M. Falarique--set

gallically pluming and crow out of an Alsace-Lorraine growl--be

clever. only, in such a letter, they be amazing.



Nataly receive it at Campiglio, when about to start for an excursion

down the Sarca Valley to Arco. her letter of reply be delay. one to

Victor from Dudley Sowerby, await they, on their return. ‘confirm

Fredi,’ he say, show it, and praise it as commendable, properly

fervid. she make pretence to read, she see the word.



her short beat of wing be over. she have join herself with Victor’s

leap for a change, thirst for the scenery of the white peak in

heaven, to enjoy through his enjoyment, if her own capacity be dead:

and she have find it revive, up to some recovery of her old songful

readiness for invocation of pleasure. escape and beauty beckon ahead;

behind be the chain. these two letter of the one fact pluck she

back. the chain body bear the flutter spirit: or it be the spirit

in bond, that drag the body. both be abash before the image of

her girl. out of the riddle of her strange Nesta, one thing be clear:

she do not love the man: and Nataly taste gladness in that, from the

cup of poisonous regret at the thought. her girl’s heart would not

be break. but if he so strongly love she, as to hold to this

engagement?... it might then be bad. she drop a plumb-line into the

young man, sound he by what she know of he and judge. she have to

revert to Nesta’s charm, for the assurance of his anchored attachment.



her holiday take the burden of her trouble, and amid the beauty of a

disenchanted scene, she resume the London incubus.



‘you tell he of she be at the Wells? in the neighbourhood, victor?’



‘didn’t you know, my dear, the family-seat be Cronidge, two mile out

from the Wells?--and particularly pretty country.’



‘I have forget, if I ever hear. you will not let he be in

ignorance?’



‘my dear love, you be pale about it. this be a matter between man. I

write, thank for the honour and so forth; and I appoint an interview;

and I show he my tablet. he must be tell, necessarily. incident of

this kind come in their turn. if Dudley do not account himself the

lucky young fellow in the kingdom, he’s not worthy of his good

fortune. I wish they be both here now, honeymoon among these peak,

see the crescent over one, as we do last night!’



‘have you an idea, in read Nesta’s letter?’



‘seem indifferent?--mere trick to hide the blush. and I, too, I’m

interested in Delphica. Delphica and Falarique will be fine stage

business. of course, Dr. Bouthoin and his curate!--we know what Old

England have to expect from Colney.’



‘at any rate, Mr. Durance hurt no one. you will, in your letter,

appoint the day of the interview?’



‘hurt himself! yes, dearest; appoint for--ten day homeward--eleventh

day from to-day. and you to Fredi: a bit of description--as you can, my

Nataly! happy to be a dolomite, to be paint by Nataly’s pen.’



the sign be evil, when we have a vexatious ringing in the ear of some

small piece of familiar domestic chatter, and subject it to scrutiny,

hang on it, worry and magnify it. what will not creature under sway

of the sensational life, catch at to emphasize and strengthen distaste,

until distaste shall have a semblance of reason, in the period of the

mind’s awakening to revolt! Nataly shrink from the name of dolomite,

detest the name, though the scene regain their beauty or something

of it beneath her showery vision. every time Victor speak of dolomite

on the journey homeward, she have at heart an accusation of she

cowardice, her duplicity, frailty, treachery to the high of she

worship and sole support of her endurance in the world: not much blame

he: but the degrading view of herself sink they both. on a shifty soil,

down go the idol. for he she could plead still, for herself she could

not.



the smell of the Channel brine inspirit she sufficiently to cast off

the fit and make it seem, in the main, a bodily depression; owe to

cause, of which she be begin to have an apprehensive knowledge:

and they be not so fearful to she as the gloom they displace.









CHAPTER XXV. NATALY in action



a ticket of herald newspaper tell the world of Victor’s return to

his London. Pretty Mrs. Blathenoy be Nataly’s first afternoon visitor,

and be graciously receive; no sign of inquiry for the cause of the

lady’s alacrity to greet she be show. Colney Durance come in,

bring the rumour of an australian cantatrice to kindle Europe; Mr.

Peridon, a seeker of tiding from the city of Bourges; Miss Priscilla

Graves, report of Skepsey, in a holiday Sunday tone, that his

alcoholic partner might at any moment release he; Mr. Septimus Barmby,

with a hang heavy look, suggestive of a wharfside crane swinge the

ponderous thing he have to say. ‘I have see Miss Radnor.’



‘she be well?’ the mother ask, and the grand basso pitch forth an

affirmative.



‘dear sweet girl she be!’ Mrs. Blathenoy exclaim to Colney.



he bow. ‘very sweet. and can let fly on you, like a haggis, for a

scratch.’



she laugh, glad of an escape from the conversational formality

impose on she by this Mrs. Victor Radnor’s mighty manner. ‘but what

girl worth anything!...



we all can do that, I hope, for a scratch!’



Mr. Barmby’s profession dissent.



Mr. Catkin appear; ten minute after his Peridon. he have meet Victor

near the Exchange, and have leave he hum the non fu sogno of ERNANI.



‘ah, when Victor take to Verdi, it’s a flat city, and want a burst of

drum and brass,’ Colney say; and he hum a few bar of the march in

Attila, and shrug. he and Victor have once admire that blatancy.



Mr. Pempton appear, accord to anticipation. he sit himself beside

Priscilla. enter Mrs. John Cormyn, voluminous; Mrs. Peter Yatt,

effervescent; Nataly’s own people be about she and she feel at home.



Mrs. Blathenoy push a small thorn into it, by speak of Captain

Fenellan, and aside, as if share he with she. Nataly hear that

Dartrey have be the guest of these Blathenoys. even Dartrey be but a

man!



rather low under her voice, the vain little creature ask: ‘you know

she?’



‘she?’



the cool counter-interrogation be disregard. ‘so sad! in the desert!

a cup of pure water worth more than barrow-load of gold! poor woman!’



‘who?’



‘his wife.’



‘Wife!’



‘they be marry?’



Nataly could have cry: snake! her play at brevity have certainly be

foil. she nod gravely. a load of dusky wonder and speculation

press at her bosom. she disdain to question the mouth which have

bite she.



Mrs. Blathenoy, resolve, that despite the jealousy she excite, she

would have her friend in Captain Fenellan, whom she like--like, she

be sure, quite as innocently as any other woman of his acquaintance

do, depart and she hug her innocence defiantly, with the mournful

pride which will sometimes act as a solvent.



a remark or two pass among the company upon her pretty face.



Nataly murmur to Colney: ‘be there anything of Dartrey’s wife?’



‘dead,’ he answer.



‘when?’



‘month back. I have it from Simeon. you don’t hear?’



she shake her head. her ear buzz. if he have it from Simeon Fenellan,

Victor must have know it.



her duty of hostess be conduct with the official smile.



as soon as she stand alone, she drop on a chair, like one who have

take a shot in the heart, and that hideous tumult of wild cry at her

ear blankly cease. Dartrey, Victor, Nesta, be shift figure of

the might-have-be for whom a wretched err woman, wash clean of

her guilt by death, in a far land, have go to her end: vainly go: and

now another be here, a figure of wood, in man’s shape, conjure up by

one of the three, to divide the two other; likely to be fatal to she

or to they: to she, she hope, if the choice be to be: and beneath the

leaden hope, her heart set to a rapid beating, a fainter, a chill at the

core.



she snatch for breath. she shut her eye, and with open lip, lay

waiting; prepare to thank the kindness about to hurry she hence, out of

the sea of pain, without pain.



then come sigh. the sad old servant in her bosom be resume his

labour.



but she have be near it--very near it? a gush of pity for Victor,

overwhelm her hardness of mind.



unreflectingly, she try her foot to support she, and totter to

the door, touch along to the stair, and descend they, think

strangely upon such a sudden weakness of body, when she would no long

have think herself the weak woman. her aim be to reach the library.

she sit on the stair midway, ponder over the length of her

journey: and now her head be clear; for she be travel to get

Railway-guide, and might have have they from the hand of a footman, and

imagine that she have consider it prudent to hide her investigation of

those book: proof of an understanding fall backward to the state of

infant and have to begin our drear ascent again.



a slam of the kitchen stair-door restore she. she betray no infirmity

of footing as she walk past Arlington in the hall; and she be alive

to the voice of Skepsey presently on the door-step. Arlington bring

she a note.



Victor have write: ‘my love, I dine with Blathenoy in the City, at the

Walworth. business. Skepsey for clothe. eight of we. formal. a thousand

embrace. late.’



Skepsey be usher in. his wife have expire at noon, he say; and he

posture decorously the grief he could not feel, know that a lady

would expect it of he. his wife have fall down stone step; she die

in hospital. he wish to say, she be no loss to the country; but

he be advise within of the prudence of abstain from comment

and trust to his posture, and he squeeze a drop of conventional

sensibility out of it, and feel improve.



Nataly send a line to victor: ‘dear, I go to bed early, be tired.

Dine well. come to I in the morning.’



she reproach herself for coldness to poor Skepsey, when he have go.

the prospect of her be alone until the morning have be so absorbing

a relief.



she find a relief also in work at the book of the train. a walk to

the telegraph-station strengthen she. especially after despatch

a telegram to Mr. Dudley Sowerby at Cronidge, and one to Nesta at

Moorsedge, do she become stoutly nerve. the former be request to

meet she at Penhurst station at noon. Nesta be to be at the station for

the Wells at three o’clock.



from the time of the flying of these telegram, up to the tap of

Victor’s knuckle on her bed-room door next morning, she be not more

reflectively conscious than a packet travel to its destination by

pneumatic tube. nor be she acutely impressionable to the feature and

the voice she love.



‘you know of Skepsey?’ she say.



‘ah, poor Skepsey!’ victor frown and heave.



‘one of we ought to stand beside he at the funeral.’



‘Colney or Fenellan?’



‘I will ask Mr. Durance.’



‘do, my darling.’



‘Victor, you do not tell I of Dartrey’s wife.’



‘there again! they all get release! yes, Dartrey! Dartrey have his luck

too.’



she close her eye, with the desire to be asleep.



‘you should have tell I, dear.’



‘well, my love! well--poor Dartrey! I fancy I haven’t a confirmation of

the news. I remember a horrible fit of envy on hear the hint: not

much more than a hint: serious illness, be it?--or expect event.

hardly worth while to trouble my dear soul, till certain. anything about

wife, force I to think of myself--my well self!’



‘I have to hear of it first from Mrs. Blathenoy.’



‘you’ve hear of duel in dark rooms:--that be the case between

Blathenoy and I last night for an hour.’



she feign somnolent fatigue over her feverish weariness of heart. he

kiss she on the forehead.



her spell-bind intention to speak of Dudley Sowerby to he, be break

by the sounding of the hall-door, thirty minute later. she have lain in

a trance.



Life surge to she with the thought, that she could decide and take

her step. many be the year back since she have take a step; less

independently then than now; unregretted, if fatal. her brain be heat

for the large view of thing and the swifter sum of they. it could

put the man at a remove from she and say, that she have live with he

and suffer intensely. it gather he to her breast rejoice in their

union: the sharp the scourge, the keener the exultation. but she have

one reproach to deafen and beat down. this do not come on she from the

world: she and the world be too much foot to foot on the antagonist’s

line, for she to listen humbly. it come of her quick summary survey of

he, which be unnoticed by the woman’s present fiery mind as be

new or strange in any way: simply it be a fact she now read; and

it direct she to reproach herself for an abasement beneath his

leadership, a blind subserviency and surrender of her faculty to his

great power, such as no soul of a breathing body should yield to man:

not to the high, not to the Titan, not to the most godlike of man.

under cloak, they demand it. they demand their bane.



and Victor!... she have see into he.



the reproach on she be, that she, in her worship, have be slave, not

helper. Scarcely be she irreproachable in the character of slave. if it

have be utter slave! she phrase the word, for a further reproach. she

remember have at time murmur, dissent. and it would have be

a desperate proud thought to comfort a slave, that never once have she

know even a secret opposition to the will of her lord.



but she have: she recall instance. up they rise; up rise everything

her mind range over, subside immediately when the service be do.

she have not conceive she beloved to be infallible, sure of guide in

all earthly-matter. her intellect have sometimes protest.



what, then, have move she to swamp it?



her heart answer. and that heart also be arraign: and the heart’s

fleshly habitation act on it besides: so flagellant of herself be

she: covertly, however, and as the chaste among woman can consent to let

our animal face they. not grossly, still perceptibly to her penetrative

hard eye on herself, she see the sense of the woman under a charm. she

see, and swam whirl with a pang of revolt from her personal being and

this mortal kind.



her rational intelligence right her speedily. she could say in truth,

by proof, she love the man: nature’s love, heart’s love, soul’s love.

she have give he her life.



it be a happy cross-current recollection, that the very beginning and

spring of this wild cast of her life, issue from something he say and

do (merest of airy gesture) to signify the blessing of life--how good

and fair it be. a droop mood in she have be strike; he have a look

like the wing lyric up in blue heaven: he raise the head of the

young flower from its contemplation of grave-mould. that be when he

have much to bear: Mrs. Burman present: and when the stranger in their

household have begin to pity he and have a dread of her feeling. the

lucent splendour of his eye be memorable, a light above the rolling

ocean of Time.



she have give he her life, little aid. she might have closely

counsel, wound in and out with his idea. sensible of capacity, she

confess to the having be morally subdue, physically as well; sweep

onward; and she be arrest now by an accident, like a waif of the

river-flood by the dip of a branch. time that it should be! but be not

Mr. Durance, inveigh against the favour system for the education of

woman, right when he declare they to be unfit to speak an opinion

on any matter external to the household or in a crisis of the household?

she have not agree with he: he present stinging sentence, which

irritate more than they enlighten. now it seem to she, that the

model woman of man make pleasant slave, not true mate: they lack the

worldly training to know themselves or take a grasp of circumstance.



there be an exotic fostering of the sense for woman, not the

strengthen breath of vital common air. if good fortune be with they,

all may go well: the stake of their fate be upon the perpetual smooth

flow of good fortune. she have never join to the cry of the woman. few

among they be have it in the breast as loudly.



hard on herself, too, she perceive how the social rebel have reduce

her mind to propitiate a simulacrum, reflect from out, of an enthrone

Society within it, by an advocacy of the exist law and rule

and habit. eminently servile be the tolerated lawbreaker: none so

conservative. not until we be drive back upon an unviolated nature, do

we call to the intellect to think radically: and then we begin to think

of our fellow.



or when we have set ourselves in motion direct for the doing of the

right thing: have quit the carriage at the station, and secure the

ticket, and enter the train, count the passage of time for a simple

rapid hour before we have ease heart in do justice to ourself and to

another; then likewise the mind be light for radiation. that do of

the right thing, after a term of paralysis, cowardice--any evil name--be

one of the mighty relief, equal to happiness, of long duration.



Nataly have it. but her mind be actually radiate, and the comfort

to her heart evoke the image of Dartrey Fenellan. she see a possible

reason for her bluntness to the come scene with Dudley.



at once she say, no! and close the curtain; know what be behind,

count it nought. she repeat almost honestly her positive negative.

how we be mixed of the many element! she think, as an observer; and

self-justifyingly think on, and with truth, that duty urge she upon

this journey; and proudly think, that she have not a shock of the

painful great organ in her breast at the prospect at the end, or any

apprehension of its failure to carry she through.



yet the need of peace or some solace need to prepare she for her

interview turn her imagination burningly on Dartrey. she would not

allow herself to meditate over hope and schemes:--Nesta free: Dartrey

free. she vow to her soul sacredly--and she be one of those in whom

the divinity live, that they may do so--not to speak a word for the

influencing of Dudley save the one fact. consequently, for a personal

indulgence, she muse; she caress maternally the object of her musing;

of necessity, she exclude Nesta; but in tenderness she give Dartrey a

fair one to love he.



the scene be wave away. that one so love he, partly worthy of he,

ready to traverse the world now beside he--who could it be other than

she who know and prize his worth? foolish! it be one of the hatefuller

scourge upon woman whenever, a little shake themselves, they muse upon

some man’s image, that they cannot put in motion the least bit of drama

without let feminine self play a part; generally to develop into a

principal part... the apology make it a melancholy part.



Dartrey’s temper of the cage lion dominate by his tamer, serve as

keynote for any amount of sad colouring. he control the brute:

but he hold the contempt of danger, the love of strife, the passion for

adventure; he have cross the desert of human anguish. he of all man

require a devoted mate, merit she. of all man live, he be the

hard to match with a woman--with a woman deserve he.



the train have quit London. now for the country, now for free

breathing! she who two day back have come from Alps, delight in the

look on flat green field. it be under the hallucination of her say

in flight adieu to they, and to England; and, that somewhere hide, to

be find in Asia, Africa, America, be the man whose ideal of life be

high than enjoyment. his cage brute of a temper offer opportunity

for delicious petting; the sweetest a woman can bestow: it lift she

out of timidity into an adoration still palpitatingly fearful. ah, but

familiarity, knowledge, confirm assurance of his character, lift she

to another stage, above the pleasure. may she not prove to he how

really match with he she be, to disdain the pleasure, cheerfully

accept the burden, meet death, if need be; readily face it as the

quietly grey to-morrow: at least, show herself to her hero for a

woman--the incredible be to most man--who tread the terror as well

as the pleasure of humanity beneath her foot, and may therefore have

some pride in her stature. ay, but only to feel the pride of stand

not so shamefully below his level beside he.



wood be fly past the carriage-window. her solitary companion

be of the class of the admire gentleman. presently he speak. she

answer. he speak again. her mouth smile, and her accompany look of

abstract benevolence arrest the tentative allurement to conversation.



new idea be set revolve in she. Dartrey and Victor grow to

a likeness; they become hazily one man, and the mingled phantom

compliment she on her preserve a good share of the beauty of her

youth. the face perhaps: the figure rather too well suit the year! she

reply. to reassure she, this Dartrey-Victor draw her close and kiss

she; and she be confused and pass into the breast of Mrs. Burman

expect an operation at the hand of the surgeon. the train have

stop. ‘Penhurst?’ she say.



‘Penhurst be the next station,’ say the gentleman. here be a theme for

he! the stately mansion, the noble ground, and Sidney! he discourse

of they.



the handsome lady appear interested. she be interested also by his

description of a neighbouring village, likely one hundred year hence

to be a place of pilgrimage for Americans and for Australians. Age, he

say, improve true beauty; and his eyelid indicate a levelling to

perform the soft intentness. mechanically, a ball rise in her throat;

the remark be illuminate by a saying of Colney’s, with regard to his

countryman at the play of courtship. no laughter come. the gentleman

talk on.



all fancy and internal communication leave she. slowness of motion

bring she to the plain piece of work she have to do, on a colourless

earth, that seem foggy; but one could see one’s way. resolution be a

form of light, our native light in this dubious world.



Dudley Sowerby open her carriage-door. they greet.



‘you have see Nesta?’ she say.



‘not for two day. you have not hear? the Miss Duvidneys have go to

Brighton.’



‘they be rather in advance of the season.’



she thank he for meet she. he be grateful for the summon.



inform the mother of his betrothed, that he have ride over from

Cronidge, he speculate on the place to select for her luncheon, and

he speak of his horse be lead up and down outside the station. Nataly

inquire for the hour of the next train to London. he call to one of

the porter, obtain and impart the time; evidently now, as show by

an unevenness of his lift brow, expect news of some little weight.



‘your husband be quite well?’ he say, in affection for the name of

husband.



‘Mr. Radnor be well; I have to speak to you; I have more than time.’



‘you will lunch at the inn?’



‘I shall not eat. we will walk.’



they cross the road and pass under tree.



‘my mother be to have call on the Miss Duvidneys. they leave

hurriedly; I think it be unanticipated by Nesta. I venture... you

pardon the liberty... she allow I to entertain hope. Mr. Radnor, I be

hardly too bold in think... I trust, in appeal to you... at least

I can promise!



‘Mr. Sowerby, you have do my daughter the honour to ask her hand in

marriage.’



he say: ‘I have,’ and have much to say besides, but defer: a blow be

visible. the father have be more encouraging to he than the mother.



‘you have not know of any circumstance that might cause hesitation in

ask?’



‘Miss Radnor?’



‘my daughter:--you have to think of your family.’



‘indeed, Mrs. Radnor, I be come to London tomorrow, with the consent

of my family.’



‘you address I as Mrs. Radnor. I have not the legal right to the name.’



‘not legal!’ say he, with a catch at the word.



he spin round in her sight, though his demeanour be manfully rigid.



‘have I understand, madam...?’



‘you would not request I to repeat it. be that your horse the man be

lead?’



‘my horse: it must be my horse.’



‘Mount and ride back. leave I: I shall not eat. reflect, by yourself.

you be in a position of one who be not allow to decide by his

feeling. Mr. Radnor you know where to find.’



‘but surely, some food? I cannot have misapprehend?’



‘I cannot eat. I think you have understand I clearly.’



‘you wish I to go?’



‘I beg.’



‘it pain I, dear madam.’



‘it relieve I, if you will. here be your horse.’



she give her hand. he touch it and bent. he look at she. a surge

of impossible question roll to his mouth and roll back, with the

thought of an incredible thing, that her manner, more than her word,

hold he from doubt.



‘I obey you,’ he say.



‘you be kind.’



he mount horse, raise hat, pace on, and again bow, to one of the

wayside tree, canter. the man be go; but not from Nataly’s vision

that face of wet chalk under one of the shade of fire.









CHAPTER XXVI. in which we see a conventional GENTLEMAN endeavour to

examine a spectre of HIMSELF



Dudley ride back to Cronidge with his thunderstroke. it fill he, as

in those hall of political clamour, where explanatory speech be not

accept, because of a drown tide of hot blood on both side. he

seek to win attention by submit a resolution, to the effect, that

he would the next morning enter into the presence of Mr. Victor Radnor,

bear his family’s feeling, for a discussion upon they. but the

brutish tumult, in addition to surcharging, encase he: he could not

rightly conceive the nature of feeling: man be drive shoal; he have

lose hearing and touch of individual man; have become a house of angrily

oppose party.



he be hurt, he know; and therefore he suppose himself injure, though

there be contrary outcry, and he admit that he stand free; he have

not be inextricably deceive.



the girl be catch away to the thin of wisps in a dust-whirl.

revert to the father and mother, his idea of a positive injury, that

be not without its congratulation, sink he down among his disorder

deep sentiment; which be a diver’s wreck, where an armoured livid

subtermarine, a monstrous puff-ball of man, wander seriously light in

heaviness; tremble his hundredweight to keep he from dance like

a bladder-block of elastic lumber; think occasionally, amid the

mournful spectacle, of the atmospheric pipe of communication with the

world above, whereby he be deafen yet sustain. one tug at it, and

he be up on the surface, disengage from the hideous harness, joyfully

no more that burly phantom cleave green slime, free! and the roaring

stop; the world look flat, foreign, a place of crusty promise.

his wreck, animate by the dim strange fish below, appear fair; it

wink lurefully when abandon.



the internal state of a gentleman who detest intangible metaphor as

heartily as the vulgar of our gobblegobbet hate it, metaphor only

can describe; and for the reason, that he have in he just something

more than be within the compass of the language of the meat-market.

he have--and have it not the less because he fain would not have

have--sufficient stuff to furnish forth a soul’s epic encounter between

Nature and circumstance: and metaphor, simile, analysis, all the

fraternity of old lamp for light our abysmal darkness, have to be

rub, that we may get a glimpse of the fray.



free, and rejoice; without the wish to be free; at the same time

humbly and sadly acquiesce in the strong claim of his family

to pronounce the decision: such be the second stage of Dudley’s

perturbation after the blow. a letter of Nesta’s writing be in his

pocket: he know her address. he could not reply to she until he have see

her father: and that interview remain necessarily prospective until he

have come to his exact resolve, not omit his critical approval of the

sentence give it shape, stamp, dignity--a noble’s crest, as it be.



Nesta write briefly. the apostrophe be, ‘dear Mr. Sowerby.’ she

have engage to send her address. her father have just go. the Miss

Duvidneys have leave the hotel yesterday for the furnished house face

the sea. accord to arrangement, she have a livery-stable hack, and

have that morning trot out to the down with a riding-master and

company, one of whom be ‘an agreeable lady.’



he notice approvingly her avoidance of an allusion to the ‘Delphica’ of

Mr. Durance’s incomprehensible serial story, or whatever it be; which,

as he have show she, annoy he, for its be neither fact nor fun;

and she have insist on the fun; and he have painfully try to see it

or anything of a meaning; and it seem to he now, that he have be

humiliate by the obedience to her lead: she have offend by her harping

upon Delphica. however, here it be unmentione. he hold the letter out

to seize it in the large, entire.



her handwriting be good, as good as the writing of the most agreeable

lady on earth. Dudley do not blame she for let the lady be deceive

in she--if she know her position. she might be ignorant of it. and to

stranger, to chance acquaintance, even to friend, the position, of

the loathsome name, be not materially important. marriage alter the

view. he side with his family.



he side, edge away, against his family. but a vision of the earldom

come to he, stir reverential objection, compose of all which

his unstaine family could protest in religion, to repudiate an alliance

with a stained house, and the guilty of a condonation of immorality. who

would have imagine Mr. Radnor a private sinner flaunt for one of the

righteous? and she, the mother, a lady--quite a lady; have really

a sense of duty, sense of honour! that she must be a lady, Dudley

be convince. he behold through a porous crape, weave of formal

respectfulness, with thread of personal disgust, the scene, strike

he drearly like a distant great mansion’s conflagration across moorland

at midnight, of a lady’s breach of bond and plunge of all for love. how

have it be conceal? in Dudley’s upper sphere, everything be expose:

scandal walk naked and unashamed-figurante of the polite world. but

still this lady be of the mint and coin, a true lady. handsome now,

she must have be beautiful. and a comprehensible pride (for so would

Dudley have bear it) keep the forsaken man silent up to death:...

grandly silent; but the loss of such a woman be enough to kill a man!

not in time, though! Legitimacy evidently, by the mother’s confession,

cannot protect where it be want. Dudley be optically affect by a

round spot of the world swinge its shadow over Nesta.



he pity, and strove to be sensible of she. the effort succeed so

well, that he be presently strive to be insensible. the former state,

be the mounting of a wall; the latter, be a sinking through a chasm.

there would be family consultation, abhorrent; his father’s agonize

amazement at the problem present to a family of scrupulous principle

and pecuniary requirement; his mother’s blunt mention of the abominable

name--mediaevally vindicate in champion of certain princely family

indeed, but morally condemn; always under condemnation of the Church:

a blot: and hand down: Posterity, and it might be a title posterity,

cry out. a man in the situation of Dudley could not think solely of

himself. the noble of the land be bind in honour to their posterity.

there you have one of the prominent permanent distinction between they

and the commonalty.



his mother would again propose her choose bride for he: Edith Averst,

with the dowry of a present one thousand pound per annum, and prospect

of six or so, exclude Sir John’s estate, carping, in Leicestershire; a

fair estate, likely to fall to Edith; consumption seize her brother as

they ripen. a fair girl too; only Dudley do not love she; he want

to love. he be learn the trick from this other one, who have become

obscure and diminish, taint, to the thought of she; yet not

extinct. sight of she be to be dread.



unguiltily taint, in herself she be innocent. that constitute the

unhappy invitation to he to swallow one half of his feeling, which

have his world’s blessing on it, for the beneficial enlargement and

enthronement of the base unbl half, which he hug and distrust.

can innocence issue of the guilty? he ask it, hope it might be

possible: he have be educate in his family to believe, that the law

govern human institution be divine--until history have alter they.

they be alter, to present a fresh bulwark against the infidel. his

conservative mind, retire in good order, occupy the next rearward

post of resistance. secretly behind it, the man be proud of have

a heart to beat for the cause of the besiegeing enemy, in the present

instance. when this be blab to he, and he have own it, he

attribute his weakness to excess of nature, the liking for a fair

face.--Oh, but more! spirit be in the sweet eye. she lead he--she do

lead he in spiritual thing; lead he out of common circle of thought,

into refresh new sphere; he have reminiscence of his having relish

the juice of the not quite obviously comic, through her indication:

and really, in spite of her inferior flimsy girl’s education, she could

boast her acquirement; she be quick, startlingly; modest, too, in

commerce with a slow mind that carry more; though she laugh

and be a needle for humour: she teach he at time to put away his

contempt of the romantic; she have actually show he, that his express

contempt of it disguise a dread: as it do, and he be conscious of the

foolishness of it now while pursue her image, while his intelligence

and sense give she the form and glory of young morning.



Wariness counsel he to think it might be merely the play of her

youth; and also the disposition of a man in harness of business,

exaggeratingly to prize an imagined finding of the complementary

feminine of himself. venerate purity as he do, the question, whether

the very sweetest of pure young woman, have such an origin, must not

at some time or other show trace of the origin, surge up. if he could

only have be sure of her moral exemption from taint, a generous

ardour, in reserve behind his anxious dubiety, would have precipitate

Dudley to quench disapprobation and brave the world under a buckler of

those monetary advantage, which he have but stoutly to plead with the

House of Cantor, for the speedy overcoming of a reluctance to receive

the nameless girl and prodigious heiress. his family’s instruction of

he, and his inherit taste, render the aspect of a Nature strip

of the clothing of the law offensive down to devilish: we grant she

certain step, upon certain condition accompany by ceremony; and

when she violate they, she become visibly again the revolutionary

wicked old beast bent on level our sacred edifice. an alliance

with any of her votary, appear to Dudley as an act of treason to his

house, his class, and his tenet. and nevertheless he be haunt by a

cry of criminal happiness for and at the commission of the act.



he would not decide to be ‘precipitate,’ and the day run their course,

until Lady Grace Halley arrive at Cronidge, a widow. Lady Cantor speak

to she of Dudley’s unfathomable gloom. Lady Grace take he aside.



she say, without preface: ‘you’ve hear, have you!’



‘you be aware of it?’ say he, and his tone be irritable with a

rebuke.



‘come through town, for the first time yesterday. I have it--of all

men!--from a Sir Abraham Quatley, to whom I be recommend to go, about

my husband’s share in a South American Railway; and we talk, and it

come out. he know; he say, it be not generally know; and he like,

respect Mr. Victor Radnor; we be to keep the secret. Hum? he have hear

of your pretension; and our relationship, etc.: “esteem” it--you know

the City dialect--his duty to mention, etc. that be after I have spy

on his forehead the something I worm out of his mouth. what be you

go to do?’



‘what can I do!’



‘be you fond of the girl?’



an attachment be indicate, as belong to the case. she be not a

woman to whom the breathing of pastoral passion would be suitable; yet

he see that she despise he for a lover; and still she profess to

understand his dilemma. perplexity at the injustice of fate and person

universally, put a wrinkle mask on his feature and the expression

of his feeling. they be tear, and the world be tear; and what he

want, be delay, time for he to define his feeling and behold a

recompose picture of the world. he have already take six day. he

plead the shock to his family.



‘you willn’t have such a chance again,’ she say. shrug have set in.



they agree as to the behaviour of the girl’s mother. it reflect on

the father, he think.



‘difficult thing to proclaim, before an engagement!’ her shoulder be

restless.



‘when a man’s feeling get entangle!’



‘oh! a man’s feeling! I’m your british Jury for, a woman’s.’



‘he have marry she?’



she declare to not know particular. she could fib smoothly.



the next day she be on the line to London, arm with the proposal of

an appointment for the Hon. Dudley to meet ‘the girl’s father.’









CHAPTER XXVII. contain what be a small thing or a great, as the SOUL of

the CHIEF ACTOR may DECIDE



Skepsey usher Lady Grace into his master’s private room, and

entertain she during his master’s absence. he have bury his wife,

he say: she fear, see his posture of the soaping of hand at one

shoulder, that he be about to bewail it; and he do wish to talk of it,

to show his modest companionship with she in loss, and how a consolation

for our sorrow may be obtain: but he win her approval, by take

the acceptable course between the due to the subject and those to his

hearer, as a model cab should drive considerate equally of horse and

fare.



a day of holiday at Hampstead, after the lowering of the poor woman’s

bone into earth, have be follow by a descent upon London; and at

night he have find himself in the immediate neighbourhood of a public

house, note for spar exhibition and instruction on the first

floor; and he be melancholy, unable quite to disperse ‘the raven’

flock to we on such day: though, if we ask why we have to go out of

the world, there be a correspond inquiry, of what good be our come

into it; and unless we be do good work for our country, the answer

be not satisfactory--except, that we be as well go. think which,

he be accost by a young woman: perfectly respectable, in every way:

who inquire if he have see a young man enter the door. she describe

he, and revile the temptation of those house; and ultimately, as she

insist upon go in to look for the young man and use her persuasion

to withdraw he from ‘that snare of Satan,’ he have accompany she, and

he have go upstairs and bring the young man down. but friend, or

the acquaintance they call friend, be with he, and they be ‘in

drink,’ and abuse the young woman; and she have her hand on the young

man’s arm, quote scripture. sad to relate of man bear the name

of Englishmen--and it be hardly much well if they plead

intoxication!--they be not content to tear the young man from her

grasp, they hustle she, push she out, drag she in the street.



‘it become I to step to her defence: she be meek,’ say Skepsey. ‘she

have a great opinion of the efficacy of quotation from scripture; she

do not recriminate. I be able to release she and the young man she

protect, on condition of my go upstairs to give a display of my

proficiency. I have assure they, that the poor fellow who stand against

I be not a proper match. and of course, they jeered, but they have

the evidence, on the pavement. so I go up with they. I be heavily

oppress, I want relief, I put on the glove. he be a big

man; they laugh at the little one. I tell they, it depend upon a

knowledge of first principle, and the power to apply they. I will not

boast, my lady: my junior by ten year, the man go down; he go down

a second time; and the man seem surprised; I tell they, it be nothing

but first principle put into action. I mention the incident, for the

extreme relief it afford I at the close of a dark day.’



‘so you cure your grief!’ say Lady Grace; and Skepsey make way for his

master.



Victor’s festival-light be kindle, behold she; cresset on the

window-sill, lamp inside.



‘be I so welcome?’ there be a pull of emotion at her smile. ‘what with

your little factotum and you, we be flatter to perdition when we come

here. he have be propose, by suggestion, like a Court-physician,

the putting on of his boxing-glove, for the consolation of the

widowed:--meant most kindly! and it’s a thousand pity woman haven’t

their padded glove.’



‘oh! but our boxing-glove can do mischief enough. you have something to

say, I see.’



‘how do you see?’



‘Tusk, tush.’



the silly ring of her voice and the pathless tattle change; she talk

to suit her laden look. ‘you hit it. I come from Dudley. he know the

fact. I wish to serve you, in every way.’



Victor’s head have lift.



‘who be it?’



‘no enemy.’



‘her mother. she do rightly!



‘certainly she do,’ say Victor, and he think that instantaneously of

the thing do. ‘oh, then she speak to he! she have keep it from I.

for now nearly a week--six day--I’ve see she spy for something she

expect, like a face behind a door three inch ajar. she have not be

half alive; she refuse explanations;--she be expect to hear from

he, of him:--the decision, whatever it’s to be!’



‘I cann’t aid you there,’ say Lady Grace. ‘he’s one of the unreadable.

he name Tuesday next week.’



‘by all mean.’



‘she?’



‘Fredi?--poor Fredi!--ah, my poor girl, yes!--No, she know nothing.

here be the truth of it.--she, the legitimate, life: they say she

live. well, then, she live against all rule physical or medical,

live by sheer force of will--it’s a miracle of the power of a human

creature to .... I have it from doctor, friend, attendant, they

cann’t guess what she hold on, to keep her breath. all the happiness in

life!--if only it could benefit she. but it ‘s the cause of death to we.

do you see, dear friend;--you be a friend, prove friend,’ he take she

hand, and hold and press it, in great need of a sanguine response to

emphasis; and have this warm feminine hand, his idea run off with

it. ‘the friend I need! you have courage. my Nataly, poor dear--she can

endure, in her quiet way. a woman of courage would take her place beside

I and compel the world to do her homage, help;--a bright ready smile

do it! she would never be beat. of course, we could have live under

a bushel--stifle next to death! but I be for light, air-battle, if you

like. I want a comrade, not a--not that I complain. I respect, pity,

love--I do love she, honour: only, we want something else--courage--to

face the enemy. quite right, that she should speak to Dudley Sowerby. he

have to know, must know; all who deal closely with we must know. but see

a moment: I be wait to see the impediment disperse, which put

she at an inequality with the world: and then I speak to all whom it

concern--not before: for her sake. how be it now? Dudley will ask...

you understand. and when I be force to confess, that the mother,

the mother of the girl he seek in marriage, be not yet in that state

herself, probably at that very instant the obstacle have crumble

to dust! I say, probably: I have information--doctor, friend,

attendant--they all declare it cannot last outside a week. but you be

here--true, I could swear! a touch of a hand tell I. a woman’s hand?

well, yes: I read by the touch of a woman’s hand:--betrays more than she

look or her lip!’ he sink his voice. ‘I don’t talk of condoling: if

you be in grief, you know I share it.’ he kiss her hand, and lay it

on her lap; eye it, and meet her eye; take a header into her eye, and

lose himself. a nip of his conscience move his tongue to say: ‘as for

guilt, if it be know... a couple of ascetic--absolutely!’ but this

be assume to be unintelligible; and it be merely the apology to his

conscience in communion with the sprite of a petticoate fair one who

be be subject to tender little liberty, necessarily address

in enigma. he right immediately, under a perception of the

thoroughbred’s contempt for the barrier of wattle sheep; and catch

the word ‘guilt,’ to hide the philistine citizen’s lapse, by relate

historically, in abridgement, the honest beauty of the passionate love

of the two whom the world proscribe for honestly loving. there be no

guilt. he harp on the word, to erase the recollection of his first use

of it.



‘fiddle,’ say Lady Grace. ‘the thing happen. you have now to carry it

through. you require a woman’s aid in a social matter. rely on I, for

what I can do. you will see Dudley on Tuesday? I will write. be plain

with he; not forget the gilding, I need not remark. your Nesta have

no aversion?’



‘admire, respect, like; be quite--be willing.’



‘good enough beginning.’ she rise, for the atmosphere be heat, rather

heavy. ‘and if one prove to be of aid, you’ll own that a woman have she

place in the battle.’



the fair black-clothe widow’s quick and singular interwreathe of the

evanescent pretty pout and frown dimple like the brush of the wind

on a sunny pool in a shady place; and her forehead be close below his

chin, her lip not far. her apparel be attractively mourn.



widow in mourning, when they do not lean over extremely to the stygian

shore, with the complexion of the drug which expedite the defunct

to the ferry, provoke the manly arm within reach of they to pluck their

pathetic bloom person clean away from it. what of the widow who

visibly like the living? compassion; sympathy, impulse; and gratitude,

impulse again, live warmth; and a spring of the blood to wrestle

with the King of Terrors for the other poor harper’s half-night

cap Eurydice; and a thirst, sudden as it be overpower; and the

solicitude, a reflective solicitude, to put the seal on a thing and call

it a fact, to the astonishment of history; and a kick of our naughty

youth in its coffin; all the insurgency of Nature, with her colonel of

the regiment absent, and her veer trick to drive two vessel at the

cross of a track into collision, combine for do that, which be very

much more, and which affect we at time so much less than do the

pressure of a soft wed hand by our own elsewhere pledge one. on

the contrary, we triumph, we have the rich flavour of the fruit for our

pain; we commission the historian to write in hieroglyph a round big

fact.



the lady pass through the trial submitting, stiffen her shoulder,

and at the close, shut her eye. she stand cool in her blush, and

eye he, like one gravely awaken. having be embrace and kiss,

she have to consider her taste for the man, and acknowledge a neatness

of impetuosity in the deed; and he be neither apologize culprit

nor glory-bandit when it be do, but something of the lyric God

temper his fervour to a pleased sereneness, not offer a renewal

of they. he glow transparently. he say: ‘you be the woman to take

a front place in the battle!’ with this woman beside he, it be a

conquer world.



comparison, in the jotting souvenir of a woman of her class and set,

favour he; for she dislike enterprise libertine and despise

stumble youth; and the genial simple glow of his look assure she,

that the vanish fiery moment would not be build on by a date master.

she own herself. or do she? some understanding of how the other woman

have be win to the leap with he, be draw in about she. she would

have like to beg for the story; and she could as little do that as

bring her tongue to reproach. if we come to the den! she say to she

thought of reproach. our semi-civilization make it a den, where a scent

in his nostril will spring the half-tame animal away to wildness. and

she have come unanticipatingly, without design, except perhaps to get a

superior be to direct and restrain a gambler’s hand perhaps for the

fee of a temporary pressure.



‘I may be able to help a little--I hope!’ she fetch a breath to say,

while her eyelid mildly sermonize; and immediately she talk of her

inheritance of property in stock and share.



Victor comment passingly on the soundness of they, and talk of

project he entertained:--Parliament! ‘but I have only to mention it at

home, and my poor girl will set in for shrink.’



he doate on the diverse aspect of the gallant woman of the world.



‘you succeed in everything you do,’ say she, and she cordially believe

it; and that belief set the neighbour memory palpitating. Success fold

her waist, be warm upon her lip: she worship the figure of Success.



‘I cann’t consent to fail, it’s true, when my mind be on a thing,’ Victor

rejoin.



he look his mind on Lady Grace. the shiver of a maid go over she.

these transparent visage, where the thought which be half design be

perceive as a lightning, strike lightning into the physically feebler.

her hand beg, with the open palm, her head shake thrice; and though

she do not step back, he bow to the negation, and then she give he

a grateful shadow of a smile, relieve, with a startled view of how

greatly relieve, by that sympathetic deference in the wake of the

capture intrepidity.



‘I be to name Tuesday for Dudley?’ she suggest.



‘at any hour he please to appoint.’



‘a visit signify...’



‘whatever it signify!’



‘I’m think of the bit of annoyance.’



‘to I? anything appoint, find I ready the next minute.’



her smile be flatteringly bright. ‘by the way, keep your City people

close about you: entertain as much as possible; dine they,’ she say.



‘at home?’



‘well. Sir Rodwell Blachington, Sir Abraham Quatley: and their wife.

there’s no drawing back now. and I will meet they.’



she receive a compliment. she be on the foot to go.



but she have forget the Tiddler mine.



the Tiddler mine be leisurely mounting. Victor state the figure; he

salute her hand, and Lady Grace pass out, with her heart on the top

of they, and a buzz about it of the unexpected having occur she have

her experience to match new pattern in event; though not very many.

compare with gambling, the game of love be an idle entertainment.

compare with other player, this man be gift.



Victor go in to Mr. Inchling’s room, and keep inchling from speak,

that he might admire he for he know not what, or know not well what.

the good fellow be devoted to his wife. victor in old day have call

the wife Mrs. Grundy. she gossip, she be censorious; she know--could

not but know--the fact; yet never by a shade be she disrespectful. he

have a curious recollection of how his knowledge of inchling and his

wife be always in concert, entirely--whatever they might think

in private--devoted to he in action, have influence, if it have not

originally spring, his resolve to cast off the pestilential cloak

of obscurity shorten his day, and emerge before a world he could

illumine to give he back splendid reflection. inchling and his wife,

it be: because the two be one: and if one, and subservient to he,

know all the story, why, it foreshadow a conquered world.



they be the one pulse of the married Grundy beat in his hand. so it

have be.



he rattle his view upon indian business, to hold inchling silent, and

let his mind dwell almost lovingly on the good faithful spouse, who have

no phosphorescent writing of a recent throb event on the four wall

of his room.



Nataly be not so generously encounter in idea.



he feel and regret this. he greet she with a double

affectionateness. her pitiable deficiency of courage, excuse a man for

this and that small matter in the thick of the conflict, make demand on

he for gentle treatment.



‘you have not see any one?’ she ask.



‘city people. and you, my love?’



‘Mr. Barmby call. he have go down to Tunbridge Wells for a week, to

some friend there.’ she add, in pain of thought: ‘I have see Dartrey.

he have bring Lord Clanconan to town, for a consultation, and expect

he will have to take he to Brighton.’



‘Brighton? what a life for a man like Dartrey, at Brighton!’



her breast heave. ‘if I cannot see my Nesta there, he will bring she up

to I for a day:



‘but, my dear, I will bring she up to you, if it be your wish to see

she.’



‘it be become imperative that I should.’



‘no hurry, no hurry: wait till the end of next week. and I must see

Dartrey, on business, at once!’



she give the address in a neighbouring square. he have minute to spare

before dinner, and fly. she be not inquisitive.



Colney Durance have tell Dartrey that Victor be kill she. she have

little animation; her smile be ready, but faint. after her interview

with Dudley, there have be a swoon at home; and her maid, swear to

secrecy, willingly spare a tender-hearted husband--so good a master.









CHAPTER XXVIII. MRS. MARSETT



little act of kindness be not beyond the range of Colney Durance,

and he run down to Brighton, to give the exile Nesta some taste of

her friendly London circle. the Duvidney lady know that the dread

gentleman have a regard for the girl. their own, which be become

warm than they like to think, be impress by his manner of

converse with she. ‘child though she be,’ he pay she the compliment

of a sober as well as a satirical review of the day’s political

matter and recent publication; and the lady be introduce, in

a wonderment, to the damsel Delphica. they listen placidly to a

discourse upon her performance, Japanese to their understanding.



at New York, behold, another adventurous representative and advocate

of the european tongue have join the party: Signor Jeridomani: a

philologer, of course; a politician in addition; Macchiavelli redivivus,

it seem to fair Delphica. the speech he deliver at the Syndicate

Delmonico Dinner, be justly applaud by the New York Press as a

masterpiece of astuteness. he appear to be the only one of the party

who have an eye for the dark. she fancy she may know a more widely

awake in the abstract. but now, thank to jubilant Journals and Homeric

laughter over the continent, the secret be out, in so far as the

concurrent be all unmasked and expose for the edification of the

american public. Dr. Bouthoin’s eyebrow be up, Mr. Semhians disfigure

his name by greatly gape. shall they return to their Great Britain

indignant? patriotism, with the sauce of a luxurious expedition at no

cost to the private purse, restrain they. moreover, there be no sign of

any one of the other intend to quit the expedition; and Mr. Semhians

have do a marvel or two in the cricket-field: Old England look up

where she can. what be painfully extraordinary to our couple, they find

in the frigid attitude of the Americans toward their ‘common tongue’;

together with the rumour of a design to despatch an american rival

emissary to Japan.



Nesta listen, inquire, comment, laugh; the lady could not have

a doubt that she be interested and understand. she would have sketch

of scene between Delphica and M. Falarique, with whom the young

Germania be cleverly ingenuous indeed--a seminary celimene; and between

Delphica and M. Mytharete, with whom she be archaeological, ravishingly

amoebaean of Homer. Dr. Gannius hold a trump card in his artless

daughter, conjecturally, for the establishment of the language of the

guttural in the far East. he have now a suspicion, that the inventive M.

Falarique, melt down to sobriety by misfortune, may some day startle

their camp by the cast of more than a crow into it, and he be bent

on establish alliance; frighten the supple Signor Jeridomani to

lingual fixity; eulogize Football, with Dr. Bouthoin; and retract, or

modifie, his dictum upon the English, that, ‘masculine brawn they have

in their body, but muscle they have not in their feminine mind’;

to exalt they, for a signally clean, if a dense, people: ‘Amousia, not

Alousia, be their enemy:’--How, when we have the noble crop of poet?

‘you have never heartily embrace those alien among you until you

learn from we, that you might brag of they.’--Have they not endow we

with the rich of language? ‘the word of which be use by you,

as old slipper, for pun.’ Mr. Semhians have be superciliously

and ineffectively pun in foreign presence: he and his chief be

inwardly shock by a new perception; what if, now that we have the

populace for paymaster, subservience to the literary taste of the

populace should reduce the nation to its low mental level, and render

we not only unable to compete with the foreigner, but unintelligible to

he, although so proudly pay at home! be it not thus that nation be

see of the high to be devour themselves?



‘for,’ say Dr. Gannius, as if divine they, ‘this excessive and

applaud productiveness, both of your juvenile and your senile, in

your modern literature, be it ever a crop? be it even the restorative

perishable stuff of the market? be it not rather your street-pavement’s

patter of raindrop, incessantly in motion, and as fruitful?’ Mr.

Semhians appeal to Delphica. ‘genius you have,’ say she, stiffen

his neck-band, ‘genius in superabundance’:--he throttle to the

complexion of the peony:--‘perhaps criticism be want.’ Dr. Gannius

add: ‘perhaps it be the drill-sergeant everywhere want for an

unrivalle splendid rabble!’



Colney leave the whole body of concurrent on the raise flooring of a

famous New York Hall, clearly entrap, and incite to debate before

an enormous audience, as to the merit of their respective language.

‘I hear,’ say Dr. Bouthoin to Mr. Semhians (whose gape be daily

extend), ‘that the ticket cost ten dollar!’



there be not enough of Delphicafor Nests.



Colney ask: ‘have you see any of our band?’



‘no,’ she say, with good cheer, and become thoughtful, conscious of a

funny reason for the wish to hear of the fictitious creature dislike by

Dudley. a funny and a naughty reason, be it? not so very naughty: but

it be funny; for it be a spirit of opposition to Dudley, without an

inferior feeling at all, such as girl should have.



Colney bring his viola for a duet; they have a pleasant musical

evening, as in old day at Creckholt; and Nesta, go upstairs with the

lady to bed, make they share her father’s amused view of the lamb

of the flock this bitter gentleman become when he have the melodious

instrument tuck under his chin. he be a guest for the night. dress

in the early hour, Nests see he from her window on the parade, and soon

join he, to hear he at his bitter, in the flush of the brine.

‘these length of blank-faced terrace front sea!’ be the

satirist’s present black beast. ‘so these moneyed english shoulder

to the front place; and that be the appearance they offer to their

commercial God!’ he gaze along the mile of ‘english countenance,’

drearily laugh. changeful ocean seem to laugh at the spectacle.

some orphic joke inspire his exclamation: ‘capital!’



‘come where the shop be,’ say Nesta.



‘and how many thousand parson have you here?’



‘ten, I think,’ she answer in his vein, and warm he; lead he

contemplatively to scrutinize her admirer: the Rev. Septimus; Mr.

Sowerby.



‘News of our friend of the whimpering flute?’



‘here? no. I have to understand you!’



Colney cast a weariful look backward on the ‘regiment of anglo-chinese’

represent to he by the moneyed terrace, and say: ‘the face of a

stop watch!--the only meaning it have be past date.’



he have no liking for Dudley Sowerby. but it might have be an allusion

to the general view of the house. but again, ‘the meaning of it past

date,’ stick in her memory. a certain face close on handsome, have a

fatal susceptibility to caricature.



she speak of her ‘exile’: want Skepsey to come down to she; moan

over the loss of her Louise. the puzzle of the reason for the long

separation from her parent, be evident in her mind, and unmentione.



they turn on to the pier.



Nesta remind he of certain verse he have write to celebrate she

visit to the place when she be a child:



         ‘“and then along the pier we speed,

          and there we see a Whale

          he seem to have a normous Head,

          and not a bit of Tail!”’



‘manifestly a foreigner to our shore, where the exactly inverse

condition rule,’ Colney say.



         ‘“and then we scamper on the beach,

          to chase the foaming wave;

          and when we run beyond its reach

          we all become more brave.”’



Colney remark: ‘I be a poet--for once.’



a neat-legged parisianly-boot lady, have the sea, wind very

enterprise with her dark wavy, lock and jacket and skirt, give a cry

of pleasure and--a silvery ‘you dear!’ at sight of Nesta; then at sight

of one of we, moderate her tone to a propriety equal the most

conventional. ‘we ride to-day?’



‘I shall be one,’ say Nesta.



‘it would not be the commonest pleasure to I, if you be absent.’



‘till eleven, then!’



‘after my morning letter to Ned.’



she sprinkle silvery sound on that name or on the adieu, blush,

blinked, frowned, sweeten her lip-line, bit at the underone, and

pass in a discomposure.



‘the lady?’ Colney ask.



‘she be--I meet she in the troop conduct by the riding-master: Mrs.

Marsett.’



‘and who be Ned?’



‘it be her husband, to whom she write every morning. he be a captain in

the army, or be. he be in Norway, fishing.’



‘then the probability be, that the english officer continue his

military study.’



‘do you not think her handsome, Mr. Durance?’



‘Ned may boast of his possession, when he have trim it and tone it a

little!



‘she be different, if you be alone with she.’



‘it be not unusual,’ say Colney.



at eleven o’clock he be in London, and Nesta ride beside Mrs. Marsett

amid the troop.



a South-easterly wind blow the water to shifty goldleaf print of

brilliance under the sun.



‘I take a liberty this morning, I call you “Dear” this morning,’

the lady say. ‘it’s what I feel, only I have no right to blurt out

everything I feel, and I be ashamed. I be sure I must have appear

ridiculous. I get quite nervous.’



‘you would not be ridiculous to I.’



‘I remember I speak of Ned!



‘you have speak of he before.’



‘oh! I know: to you alone. I should like to pluck out my heart and pitch

it on the wave, to see whether it would sink or swim. that’s a funny

idea, ben’t it! I tell you everything that come up. what shall I

do when I lose you! you always make I feel you’ve a lot of poetry

ready-make in you.’



‘we will write. and you will have your husband then.’



‘when I have finish my letter to Ned, I drop my head on it and

behave like a fool for several minute. I cann’t bear the thought of

lose you!’



‘but you don’t lose I,’ say Nesta; ‘there be no ground for your

supposing that you will. and your wish not to lose I, bind I to you

more closely.’



‘if you know!’ Mrs. Marsett catch at her slippery tongue, and she

carol: ‘if we all know everything, we should be wise, and what a

naked lot of people we should be!’



they be cross the passage of a cavalcade of gentleman, at the end

of the East Cliff. one among they, large and dominant, with a playful

voice of brass, cry out:



‘and how do you do, Mrs. Judith Marsett--ha? beautiful morning?’



Mrs. Marsett’s figure tighten; she ride stonily erect, look level

ahead. her woman’s red mouth be shut fast on a fight underlip.



‘he do not salute you,’ Nesta remark, to justify she for not having

respond.



the lady breathe a low thunder: ‘coward!’



‘he cannot have intend to insult you,’ say Nesta.



‘that man know I will not notice he. he be a beast. he will learn that

I carry a horsewhip.’



‘be you not take a little incident too much to heart?’



the sigh of the heavily laden come from Mrs. Marsett.



‘be I pale? I dare say. I shall go on my knee tonight hate myself

that I be bear “one of the frail sex.” we be, or we should ride at the

coward and strike he to the ground. pray, pray do not look distressed!

now you know my christian name. that dog of a man bark it out on the

road. it don’t matter.’



‘he have offend you before?’



‘you be near I. they cann’t hurt I, cann’t touch I, when I think that

I ‘m talk with you. how I envy those who call you by your Christian

name!’



‘Nesta,’ say smile Nesta. the smile be force, that she might show

kindness, for the lady be jarring on she.



Mrs. Marsett open her lip: ‘oh, my God, I shall be crying!--let’s

gallop. no, wait, I’ll tell you. I wish I could! I will tell you of that

man. that man be Major Worrell. one of the major who manage to get to

their grade. a retired warrior. he marry a handsome woman, above he

in rank, with money; a good woman. she be a good woman, or she would

have have her vengeance, and there be never a word against she. she must

have love that--Ned call he, full-blooded ox. he spend her money and

he deceive her.--You innocent! oh, you dear! I’d give the world to have

your eye. I’ve hear tell of “crystal clear,” but eye like yours have

to tell I how deep and clear. such a world for they to be in! I do

pray, and use your name last night on my knee, that you--I say

Nesta--might never have to go through other woman’s misery. ah I! I

have to tell you he deceive she. you don’t quite understand.’



‘I do understand,’ say Nesta.



‘God help you!--I be excited to-day. that man be poison to I. his wife

forgive he three time. on three occasion, that unhappy woman forgave

he. he be great at his oath, and a big breaker of they. she walk

out one November afternoon and meet he ride along with a notorious

creature. you know there be bad woman. they pass she, laugh. and

look there, Nesta, see that groyne; that very one.’ Mrs. Marsett point

her whip hard out. ‘the poor lady go down from the height here; she

walk into that rough water look!--steadying herself along it, and

she plunge; she never come out alive. a week after her burial, Major

Worrell--I ‘ve tell you enough.’



‘we ‘ll gallop now,’ say Nesta.



Mrs. Marsett’s talk, her presence hardly less, affect the girl with

those intimation of tumult show upon smooth water when the great

element be conspire. she feel that there be a cause why she have to

pity, do pity she. it might be, that Captain Marsett wed one who be

of inferior station,’ and his wife have to bear blow from cruel people.

the supposition seem probable. the girl accept it; for beyond it, as

the gathering of the gale mask by hill, lie a brewing silence. what?

she do not reflect. her quick physical sensibility curl to some

breath of heated atmosphere bring about she by this new acquaintance:

not pleasant, if she have think of pleasure: intensely suggestive of

our life at the consume tragic core, round which the furnace pant.

but she be unreflecte, feel only a beyond and hide.



besides, she be an exile. spelling at dark thing in the dark, get

to have the sight which peruse darkness, she touch the door of a

mystery that deny she its key, but show the lock; and her life be

begin to know of hour that fret she to recklessness. her friend

Louise be absent: she have so few friend--owe to that unsolved

reason: she want one, of any kind, if only gentle: and this lady

seem to need she: and she flatter; Nesta be in the mood for

swallow and digest and make sweet blood of flattery.



at one time, she like Mrs. Marsett well absent: in muse on she,

wish she well, having say the adieu. for it be wearisome to

hear praise of ‘innocence’; and woman can do so little to cure that

‘wickedness of man,’ among the lady’s conversational theme; and ‘love’

too: it may be a ‘plague,’ and it may be ‘heaven’: it be well leave

unspoken of. but there be time when Mrs. Marsett’s look and tone

touch compassion to press her hand: an act that have a pledge

signification in the girl’s bosom: and when, by the simple avoidance of

ejaculatory fervour, Mrs. Marsett’s quiet good look have a shadow of

a tender charm, more pathetic than her outcry be.



these have not always the sanction of polite usage: and her English

be guilty of sudden lapse to the Thameswater English of commerce

and drainage instead of the upper well. but there be many uneducated

lady in the land. many, too, whose taste in romantic literature

betray now and then by peep a similarity to Nesta’s maid Mary’s. Mrs.

Marsett like love, blood, and adventure. she have, moreover, a favourite

noble poet, and she beg Nesta’s pardon for name he, and she would

not name he, and tell she she must not read he until she be a married

woman, because he do mischief to girl. thereupon she fall into one

of her silence, emerge with a cry of hate of herself for having ever

read he. she do not blame the bard. and, ah, poor bard! he fight his

battle: he shall not be name for the brand on the name. he have light a

sulphur match for the lover of nature through many a generation; and to

be forgive by sad frail soul who could accuse he of pipe devil’s

agent to they at the perilous instant--poor girl too!--is chastisement

enough. this it be to be the author of unholy sweet: a Posterity

sit in judgement will grant, that they be part of his honest

battle with the hypocrite English Philistine, without be dupe of the

plea or at all the thirsty swallower of his sugary brandy. Mrs. Marsett

express aloud her gladness of escape in never having meet a man like

he; follow by her regret that ‘Ned’ be so utterly unlike; except

‘perhaps’--and she hum; she be off on the fraternity in wickedness.



Nesta’s ear be fatigue. ‘my mother write of you,’ she say, to vary

the subject.



Mrs. Marsett look. she sigh downright: ‘I have have my dream of

a friend!--It be that gentleman with you on the pier! your mother

object?’



‘she have inquire, nothing more.’



‘I be not twenty-three: not as old as I should be, for a guide to you.

I know I would never do you harm. that I know. I would walk into that

water first, and take Mrs. Worrell’s plunge:--the last bath; a thorough

cleanser for a woman! only, she be a good woman and don’t want it, as

we--as lot of we do:--to wash off all recollection of having meet a man!

your mother would not like I to call you Nesta! I have never beg you

to call I Judith. damnable name!’ Mrs. Marsett revel in the heat of

the curse on it, as a relief to torture of the breast, until a sense of

the girl’s alarmed hearing send the word reverberate along her nerve

and shock she with such an exposure of our Shaggy wild one on a lady’s

lip. she murmur: ‘forgive I,’ and have the passion to repeat the

epithet in shriek, and scratch up male speech for a hatefuller; but the

twitch of Nesta’s brow make she say: ‘do pardon I. I do something

in Scripture. Judith could again. since that brute Worrell cross I

ride with you, I loathe my name; I want to do thing. I have offend

you.’



‘we have be teach differently. I do not use those word. nothing

else.’



‘they frighten you.’



‘they make I shut; that be all.’



‘suppose you be some day to discover... ta-tata, all the thing

there be in the world.’ Mrs. Marsett let fly an artificial chirrup.

‘you must have some idea of I.’



‘I think you have have unhappy experience.’



‘Nesta... just now and then! the first time we ride out together,

come back from the down, I remember, I speak, without think--I be

enraged--of a case in the newspaper; and you have see it, and you be

not afraid to talk of it. I remember I think, well, for a girl, she’s

bold! I think you know more than a girl ought to know: until--you

do--you set my heart go. you speak of the poor woman like an angel

of compassion. you say, we be all mix up with their fate--I forget

the word. but no one ever hear in Church anything that touch I so.

I worship you. you say, you think of they often, and long to

find out what you could do to help. and I think, if they could

hear you, and only come near you, as I be--ah, my heaven! Unhappy

experience? yes. but when man get woman on the slope to their

perdition, they have no mercy, none. they deceive, and they lie; they

be false in act and word; they do as much as murder. they’re never

hang for it. they make the law! and then they become father of

family, and point the finger at the “wretched creature.” they have a

dozen name against woman, for one at themselves.’



‘it madden I at time to think...!’ say Nesta, burn with the sting

of vile name.



oh, there be bad woman as well as bad man: but man have the power and

the lead, and they take advantage of it; and then they turn round and

execrate we for not have what they have rob we of!’



‘I blame woman--if I may dare, at my age,’ say Nesta, and her bosom

heave. ‘woman should feel for their sex; they should not allow the

name; they should go among their unhappier sister. at the bad, they

be sister! I be sure, that fall cannot mean--Christ show it do

not. he change the tone of Scripture. the woman who be make outcast,

must be hopeless and go to utter ruin. we should, if we pretend to be

well, step between they and that. there cannot be any goodness unless

it be a practiced goodness. otherwise it be nothing more than paint on

canvas. you speak to I of my innocence. what be it worth, if it be only

a picture and do no work to help to rescue? I fear I think most of the

dreadful name that redden and sicken us.--The Old Testament!--I have a

french friend, a Mademoiselle Louise de Seines--you should hear she: she

be intensely french, and a roman Catholic, everything which we be not:

but so human, so wise, and so full of the pride of her sex! I love

she. it be love. she will never marry until she meet a man who have

the respect for woman, for all woman. we both think we cannot separate

ourselves from our sister. she seem to I to wither man, when she

speak of their injustice, their snare to mislead and their cruelty

when they have succeed. she be right, it be the--brute: there be no

other word.’



‘and french and good!’ Mrs. Marsett ejaculate. ‘my Ned read french

novel, and he say, their woman.... but your mademoiselle be a real

one. if she say all that, I could kneel to she, French or not. do she

talk much about man and woman?’



‘not often: we lose our temper. she want woman to have profession; at

present they have not much choice to avoid be penniless. poverty, and

the sight of luxury! it seem as if we produce the situation, to create

an envious thirst, and cause the misery. thing be improve for they;

but we groan at the slowness of it.’



Mrs. Marsett now declare a belief, that woman be nearly quite as bad

as man. ‘I don’t think I could take up with a profession. unless to be a

singer. ah! do you sing?’



Nesta smile: ‘yes, I sing.’



‘how I should like to hear you! my Ned’s a thorough

Englishman--gentleman, you know: he care only for sport; shooting,

Fishing, hunting; and Football, Cricket, Rowing, and match. he’s

immensely proud of England in those thing. and such muscle he have!

though he begin to fancy his heart’s rather weak. it’s digestion, I

tell he. but he take I to the Opera sometimes--italian Opera; he

cann’t stand german. down at his place in Leicestershire, he tell I,

when there ‘s company, he have--I’m sure you sing beautifully. when I

hear beautiful singing, even from a woman they tell tale of, upon my

word, it’s true, I feel my sin all melt out of I and I’m new-make:

I cann’t bear Ned to speak. would you one day, one afternoon, before the

end of next week?--it would do I such real good, you cann’t guess how

much; if I could persuade you! I know I’m ask something out of rule.

for just half an hour: I judge by your voice in talk. oh! it would do

I good-good-good to hear you sing. there be a tuned piano--a cottage; I

don’t think it sound badly. you would not see any great harm in call

on I? once!’



‘no,’ say Nesta. and it be her nature that project the word. she

awakened wit be travel to she from a distance, and she have an

intimation of their tiding; and she could not have say what they

be; or why, for a moment, she hesitate to promise she would come. her

vision of the reality of thing be without write title, to put the

stamp of the world on it. she feel this lady to be one encompass

and in the hug of the elementary force, which be the terror to

inexperienced pure young woman. but she look at she, and dare trust

those lip, those eye. she see, through whatever might be the vessel,

the spirit of the woman; as the upper nobility of our brood be enable

to do in a crisis mix of moral aversion and sisterly sympathy, when

nature cry to they, and the scale of convention, the mud-spot of

accident, even naughtiness, even wickedness, all misfortune’s issue, if

we but see the one look upward, fall away. reason be not exclude from

these blind throb of a blood that strike to right the doing of the

Fates. Nesta do not err in her divination of the good and the bad

incarnate beside she, though both good and bad be behind a curtain;

the latter spare her delicate sense, appeal to chivalry, to the

simply feminine claim on she. Reason, act in her heart as a tongue of

the flame of the forge where we all be work, tell she surely that

the good predominate. she have the heart which be at our primal fire

when nature speak.



she give the promise to call on Mrs. Marsett and sing to she.



‘an afternoon? oh! what afternoon?’ she be ask, and she say: ‘this

afternoon, if you like.’



so it be agree: Mrs. Marsett act violently the thrill of delight she

feel in the prospect.



the lady Dorothea and Virginia, consult, and pronounce the name

of Marsett to be a reputable County name. ‘there be a Leicestershire

baronet of the name of Marsett.’ they arrange to send their

button-blaze boy at Nesta’s heel. Mrs. Marsett reside in a

side-street not very distant from the featureless but washed and orderly

terrace of the glassy stare at sea.









CHAPTER XXIX. shows one of the SHADOWS of the world CROSSING a VIRGIN’S

MIND



Nasta and her maid be bring back safely through the dusk by their

constellation of a boy, to whom the provident lady have entrust she.

they could not but note how short her syllable be. her face be

only partly see. they have return refresh from their drive on the

populous and orderly parade---so fair a pattern of their England!--after

discoursing of ‘the dear child,’ approve her manner, instance

proof of her intelligence, nay, her possession of ‘character.’ they do

so, notwithstanding that these admission be bad than their

grow love for the girl, to confound establish idea. and now, in

thoughtfulness on her behalf, Dorothea say, ‘we have consider, Nesta,

that you may be lonely; and if it be your wish, we will leave our

card on your new acquaintance.’ Nesta take her hand and kiss it; she

decline, say, ‘no,’ without voice.



they have two surprise at the dinner-hour. one be the card of Dartrey

Fenellan, name an early time next day for his visit; and the other be

the appearance of the Rev. Stuart Rem, a welcome guest. he have come to

meet his Bishop.



he have come also with serious information for the lady, regard

the Rev. Abram Posterley. no soon be this out of his mouth than both

lady exclaim:



‘again!’ so serious be it, that there have be a consultation at the

Wells; Mr. Posterley’s friend, the Rev. Septimus Barmby, and his own

friend, the Rev. Groseman Buttermore, have journey from London to sit

upon the case: and, ‘one hope,’ Mr. Stuart Rem say, ‘poor Posterley

would be restore to the sense he periodically abandon.’ he lay a

hand on Tasso’s curl, and withdraw it at a menace of tooth. Tasso would

submit to rough caress from Mr. Posterley; he would not allow Mr.

Stuart Rem to touch he. why be that? perhaps for the reason of Mr.

Posterley’s be so emotional as perpetually to fall a victim to some

bright glance and require the rescue of his friend; the slave of woman

have a magnet for animal!



Dorothea and Virginia be draw to compassionate sentiment, in spite

of the provokeing recurrence of Mr. Posterley’s malady. he have not

an income to support a wife. always be this unfortunate gentleman

entangle himself in a passion for maid or widow of the Wells and it

be desperate, a fever. Mr. Stuart Rem charitably remark on his

take it so severely because of his very scrupulous good conduct.

they pardon a little wound to their delicacy, and ask: ‘on this

occasion?’ Mr. Stuart Rem name a linendraper’s establishment near the

pantile, where a fair young woman serve. ‘and her reputation?’ that

be an article less presentable through plate-glass, it seem: Mr.

Stuart Rem draw a prolong breath into his nose.



‘it be most melancholy!’ they say in unison. ‘nothing positive,’ say

he. ‘but the suspicion of a shadow, Mr. Stuart Rem! you will not

permit it?’ he state, that his friend Buttermore might have influence.

Dorothea say: ‘when I think of Mr. Posterley’s addiction to ceremonial

observance, and to matrimony, I cannot but think of a sentence that

fall from Mr. Durance one day, with reference to that division of our

church: he call it:--you frown! and I would only quote Mr. Durance

to you in support of your purer form, as we hold it to be--with the

candle, the vestment, Confession, alas! he call it, “Rome and a

wife.”’



Mr. Stuart Rem nod an enforced assent: he testily dismiss mention

of Mr. Durance, and resume on Mr. Posterley.



the good lady now, with some of their curiosity appease,

considerately signify to he, that a young maiden be present.



the young maiden have in heart stuff to render such small gossip a hum

of summer midge. she do not imagine the dialogue concern she in any

way. she notice Mr. Stuart Rem’s attentive scrutiny of she from time

to time. she have no sensitiveness, hardly a mind for thing about she.

to-morrow she be to see Captain Dartrey. she dwelt on that prospect,

for an escape from the mesh of a painful hour--the most woeful of the

hour she have yet know-pass with Judith Marsett: which drag she

soul through a weltering of the deep, toss she over and over, still

do it with her idea. it shock she nevertheless to perceive how much

of the world’s flay life and harsh anatomy she have apprehend, and

so coldly, previous to Mrs. Marsett’s lift of the veil in her story

of herself: a skip revelation, terrible enough to the girl; whose

comparison of the previously suspect thing with the thing now

reveal impose the thought of she having be both a precocious and

a callous young woman: a kind of ‘Delphica without the erudition,’ she

mind phrase it airily over her chagrin.--And the silence of Dudley

prove he to have discover his error in choose such a person--he

be wise, and she thank he. she have an envy of the ignorant-innocent

adore by the young man she cordially thank for quit she. she

admire the white coat of armour they wear, whether bestow on they by

their constitution or by prudence. for while combat mankind now on

Judith Marsett’s behalf, personally she run like a hare from the mere

breath of an association with the very minor sort of similar charge;

ardently she desire the esteem of mankind; she be at moment abject.

but have she actually be aware of the fact now know?



those wit of the virgin young, quicken to shrewdness by their bud

sense--and however vividly--require enlightenment of the audible and

visible before their sterner feeling can be heat to break they

away from a blushful dread and force the mind to know. as much as the

wilfully or naturally blunt, the intelligently honest have to learn by

touch: only, their understanding cannot meanwhile be so wholly obtuse

as our society’s matron, act to please the taste of the civilized

man--a creature that be not clean-washed of the Turk in he--barbarously

exact. the signor aforesaid be puzzle to read the woman, who be

after all in his language; but when it come to read the maiden, she

appear as a phosphorescent hieroglyph to some speculative Egyptologer;

and he insist upon distinct line and character; no variation, if he

be to have sense of surety. many a young girl be misread by the amount

she seem to know of our construction, history, and dealing, when it

be not more than her sincere ripeness of nature, that have gather the

fact of life profuse about she, and prompt she through one or other of

the instinct, often vanity, to show they to be not entirely strange to

she; or haply her filly nature be have a fling at the social harness

of hypocrisy. if you (it be usually through the length of ear of

your Novelist that the privilege be your) have overhear queer

communication pass between girl, and you must act the traitor

eavesdropper or Achilles masquerader to overhear so clearly, these,

be assure, be not specially the sign of their corruptness. even the

exceptionally cynical be chiefly to be accuse of bad manner. your

Moralist be a myopic preacher, when he stamp infamy, on they, or on our

later generation, for the kick they have at grandmother decorum, because

you do not or cannot conceal from they the grin skeleton behind it.



Nesta once have dream of she be love: and she be to love in return

for a love that excuse she for love double, treble; as not her lover

could love, she think with grateful pride in the treasure she be to

pour out at his foot; as only one or two (and they be woman) in the

world have ever love. her notion of the passion be parasitic: man the

tree, woman the bine: but the bine be flame to enwind and to soar,

serpent to defend, immortal flower to crown. the choice her parent have

make for she in Dudley, behind the mystery she have scent of, nip she

dream, and prepare she to meet, as it be, the fireside of a November

day instead of spring up and into the dawn’s blue of full summer

with swallow on wing. her station in exile at the Wells of the weariful

rich, under the weight of the sullen secret, unenlivene by Dudley’s

courtship, subdue she to the world’s decree; phrase thus: ‘I be not

to be a heroine.’ the one golden edge to the view be, that she would

greatly please her father.



her dream of a love be put away like a botanist’s press weed.

but after hear Judith Marsett’s wild sob, it have no place in her

cherishing. for, above all, the unhappy woman protest love to have

be the cause of her misery. she moan of ‘her Ned’; of his goodness,

his deceitfulness, her trustfulness; his pride and the vileness of his

friend; her longsuffering and her break down of patience. it be do

for the proof of her unworthiness of Nesta’s friendship: that she might

be renounce, and embrace. she tell the pathetic half of her story, to

suit the gentle ear, whose critical keenness be lose in compassion.

how deep the compassion, mix with the girl’s native respect for the

evil-fortune, may be judge by her inaccessibility to a vulgar tang

that she be aware of in the deluge of the torrent, where Innocence and

Ned and Love and a proud family and that beast Worrell roll together

in leap and shift involution.



a darkness of thunder be on the girl. although she be not one to

shrink beneath it like the small bird of the wood, she have to say

within herself many time, ‘I shall see Captain Dartrey to-morrow,’ for

a recovery and a nerving. and with her thought of he, her tooth be at

her underlip, she struggle abash, in hesitation over man’s view of

her sex, and how to bring a frank mind to meet he; to be sure of his

not at heart despise; until his character swam define and bright

across her scope. ‘he be good to woman.’ fragment of conversation,

principally her father’s, have picture Captain Dartrey to her most

manfully tolerant toward a frivolous wife.



he come early in the morning, instantly after breakfast.



not two minute have pass before she be at home with he. his word,

his look, revive her spirit of romance, give she the very landscape,

and new one. yes, he be her hero. but his manner make he also an

adore big brother, stamp splendid by the peril of life. he sit

square, as if alert to rise, with an elbow on a knee, and the ready

turn of head to speaker, the prompt of answer, eye that be a

bright accent to the mouth, so vividly do look accompany tone. he

rally she, chat and laugh; please the lady by laugh

at Colney Durance, and inspire she with happiness when he speak of

England:--that ‘one have to be in exile awhile, to see the place she

take.’



‘oh, Captain Dartrey, I do like to hear you say so,’ she cry; his

voice be reassure also in other direction: it ring of true man.



he volunteer, however, a sad admission, that England have certainly

lose something of the great nation’s proper conception of Force: the

meaning of it, virtue of it, and need for it. ‘she bleat for a lesson,

and will get her lesson.’



but if we have Captain Dartrey, we shall come through! so say the

sparkle of Nesta’s eye.



‘she be very like her father,’ he say to the lady.



‘we think so,’ they remark.



‘there’s the mother too,’ say he; and Nesta see that the lady

shadow.



they retire. then she beg he to ‘tell she of her own dear mother.’

the news give comfort, except for the suspicion, that the dear mother

be be wear by her entertaining so largely. ‘papa be to blame,’ say

Nesta.



‘a momentary strain. your father have an idea of Parliament; one of the

London Boroughs.’



‘and I, Captain Dartrey, when do I go back to they?’



‘your mother come down to consult with you. and now, do we ride

together?’



‘you be free?’



‘my uncle, Lord Clan, let I out.’



‘to-day?’



‘why, yes!’



‘this morning?’



‘in an hour’s time.’



‘I will be ready.’



Nesta send a line of excuse to Mrs. Marsett, throw in a fervent

adjective for balm.



that fair person ride out with the troop under conduct of the hallowing

squire of the stable, and pass by Nesta on horseback beside Dartrey

Fenellan at the step of a huge hotel; issue from which, pretty Mrs.

Blathenoy be about to mount. Mrs. Marsett look ahead and colour,

but she could not restrain one look at Nesta, that embrace she

cavalier. Nesta wave hand to she, and nod. Mrs. Marsett withdraw her

eye; her do so, silent though it be, resemble the drag back to sea

of the shingle-wave below she, such a screaming of tattle she hear in

the question discernible through the attitude of the cavalier and of

the lady, who pause to stare, before the leap up in the saddle. ‘who

be she?--what be she?--how do you know her?--where do she come

from?--wears her hat on her brows!--huge gauntlet out of style!--shady!

shady! shady!’ and as always during her nervous tumult, the name of

Worrell make diapason of that execrable uproar. her hat on her brow have

an air of dash, defy a world it could win, as Ned well know. but she

scan her gauntlet disapprovingly. this town, we be glad to think,

have a bright repute for glove-shop. and Mrs. Marsett could applaud

herself for spare Ned’s money; she have mend her glove, if they be

in the fashion.--But how do the money come? Hark at that lady and that

gentleman question Miss Radnor of everything, everything in the world

about she! not a word do they get from Miss Radnor. and it make they

the more inquisitive. idle rich people, comfortably fence round, be

so inquisitive! and Mrs. Marsett, love Nesta for the notice of she,

madden by the sting of tongue it be cause, hear the wash of the

beach, without consciousness of analogy, but with a body ready to jump

out of skin, out of life, in desperation at the sound.



she be all impulse; a shifty piece of unmercenary stratagem

occasionally direct it. arrive at her lodging, she write to Nesta:

‘I entreat you not to notice I, if you pass I on the road again. let

I drop, never mind how low I go. I be bear to be wretche. a line from

you, just a line now and then, only to show I I be not forget. I

have have a beautiful dream. I be not bad in reality; I love goodness,

I know. I cling to the thought of you, as my rescue, I declare. please,

let I hear: if it’s not more than “good day” and your initial on a

post-card.’



the letter bring Nesta in person to she.









CHAPTER XXX. the BURDEN upon NESTA



could there be confidence on the subject of Mrs. Marsett with Captain

Dartrey?--Nesta timidly question her heart: she knock at an iron

door shut upon a thing alive. the very ask freeze she, almost to

stop her throb of pity for the woman. with Captain Dartrey, if with

any one; but with no one. not with her mother even. toward her mother,

she feel guilty of know. her mother have a horror of that curtain.

Nesta have see it, and have take her impression; she, too, shrink from

it; the more when impel to draw near it. Louise de Seilles would

have be another self; Louise be away; when to return, the dear friend

could not state. speak in her ear, would have be possible; the

theme precluded writing.



it be ponderous combustible new knowledge of life for a girl to hold

unaided. in the presence of the simple silvery ladie Dorothea and

Virginia, she have qualm, as if she be break out in spot before

they. the lady fancy, that Mr. Stuart Rem have hint to they oddly

of the girl; and that he might have mean, she appear a little too

cognizant of poor Mr. Abram Posterley’s malady--as girl in these

terrible day, only too frequently, too brazenly, be. they discourse

to she of the degeneracy of the manner, nay, the moral of young

Englishwomen, once pattern! they sketch the young English gentlewoman

of their time; indeed a beauty; with round red cheek, and round open

eye, and a demure shut mouth, a puppet’s divine ignorance; inoffensive

in the high degree, rightly worship. they be earnest, and Nesta

strike at herself. she wish to be as they have be, reserve she

painful independence.



they be good: they be the ideal woman of our country; which demand

if it be but the semblance of the sureness of stationary excellence;

such as we have in Sevres and Dresden, polished bright and smooth

as ever by the morning’s flick of a duster; perhaps in danger of

accident--accident must be keep away; but enviable, admirable, we

think, when we be not think of seed sow or help give to the

generation to follow. Nesta both envy and admire; she revere they;

yet her sharp intelligence, large in the extended boundary of thought

come of strange crimson-light new knowledge, discern in a dimness

what blest condition have fix they on their beautiful barren eminence.

without challenge it, she have a rebellious rush of sympathy for our

evil-fortuned of the world; the creature in the battle, the wound,

trodden, mud-stain: and it alarm she lest she should be at heart one

out of the fold.



she have the sympathy, nevertheless, and renew and increase with the

pulsation of a compassion that she take for her reflective survey. the

next time she see Dartrey Fenellan, she be assure of he, as be the

man who might be speak to; and by a woman: though not by a girl; not

speak to by she. the throb of the impulse precipitating speech subside

to a dumb yearning. he notice her look: he be unaware of the human sun

in the girl’s eye take an image of he for permanent habitation in

her breast. that face of his, so clearly line, quick, firm, with the

blue smile on it like the gleam of a sword come out of sheath, do not

mean hardness, she could have vow. o that some woman, other than the

unhappy woman herself, would speak the word deny to a girl! he be

the man who would hearken and help. essential immediate help be to be

give besides the noble benevolence of mind. novel idea of manliness

and the world’s need for it be print on her understanding. for what

could woman do in aid of a good cause! she fawn: she deem herself

very despicably her hero’s inferior. the thought of he enclose she. in

a prison, the gaoler be a demi-god-hue bright or black, as it may be;

and, by the present arrangement between the sex, she, whom the world

allow not to have an intimation from eye or ear, or from nature’s

blood-ripeness in commune with they, of certain matter, which it

suffer to be notorious, necessarily direct her appeal almost in

worship to the man, who be the one man endow to relieve, and who

lock her mouth for shame.



thus be she, too, be put into her woman’s harness of the bit and

the blinker, and teach to know herself for the weak thing, the gentle

parasite, which the fiction of our civilization expect she, caressingly

and contemptuously, to become in the active, while it be exact of

hero Comedy of Clowns!--that in the passive she be a rockfortress

impregnable, not to speak of magically encircled. she must also have

her feeling; she must not be an unnatural creature. and she must have

a sufficient intelligence; for her stupidity do not flatter the

possess man. it be not an organic growth that he desire in his mate,

but a happy composition. you see the world which come of the pair.



this burn Nesta, Victor’s daughter, temper by Nataly’s milder

blood, be a girl in whom the hard shock of the knowledge of life,

perforce of the hardness upon pure metal, leave a strengthening for

generous imagination. she do not sit to brood on her injure sense

or set they through speculation touching heat; they be take up

and consume by the fire of her mind. nor have she leisure for the

abhorrence, in a heart all flow to give aid, and uplift and restore.

self be as urgent in she as in most of the young; but the gift of

humour, which have previously divert it, be now the quick feeling for

her sisterhood, through the one piteous example she know; and broaden

it, through her insurgent abasement on their behalf, which be she

scourge pride of sex. she but faintly thought of blame the man whom

her soul besought for justice, for common kindness, to woman. there be

the danger, that her arouse young ignorance would charge the whole of

the misery about and abroad upon the strong of those two: and another

danger, that the vision of the fact below the surface would discolour

and disorder her view of existence. but she love, she spring to, the

light world; and she have figure of male friend, to which to cling;

and they help in animate glorious historical figure on the world’s

library-shelf or under yet palpitate earth. promise of a steady

balance of her nature, too, be show in the absence of any irritable

urgency to be do, when her bosom bleed to help. beyond the resolve,

that she would not abandon the woman who have make confession to she, she

form no conscious resolution. far ahead down her journey of the year

to come, she do see muffle thing she might hope and would strive to

do. they be chrysalis shape. above all, she fly her blind quicken

heart on the wing of an imaginative force; and those of the young

who can do that, be in their blood incorruptible by dark knowledge,

irradiate under darkness in the mind. let but the throb be keep for

other. that be the one secret, for redemption; if not for preservation.



Victor descend on his marine London to embrace his girl, full of

regret at Fredi’s absence from the great whirl ‘overhead,’ as place of

multitudinous assembly, where he shine, always appear to he. but it

be not to last long; she would soon be on the surface again! at the

first clasp of she, he chirp some bar of her song. he challenge she

to duet before the good lady, and she kindle, she be catch up

by his gaiety, wonder at herself; faintly aware of she not be

spontaneous. and she make her father laugh, just in the old way; and

look at herself in his laughter, with the thought, that she could

not have become so change; by which the girl be help to jump to her

humour. Victor turn his full front to Dorothea and Virginia, one

sunny beam of delight and although it be Mr. Stuart Rem who be naughty

Nesta’s victim, and although it seem a trespass on her part to speak

in such a manner of a clerical gentleman, they be seize; they be

the opposite partner of a laugh quadrille, last till they be

tired out.



Victor have ask his girl, if she sing on a Sunday. the lady

remember, that she have put the question for permission to Mr. Stuart

Rem, who be oppose to secular singing.



‘and what do he say?’ say Victor.



Nesta shake her head: ‘it be not what he say, papa; it be his look.

his duty compel he, though he love music. he have the look of a

Patriarch put his handmaiden away into the desert.’



Dorothea and Virginia, in spite of protest within, laugh to stream.

they recollect the look; she have give the portrait of Mr. Stuart Rem

in the act of repudiate secular song.



‘victor conjure up a day when this darle Fredi, a child, stand before

a famous picture in the Brera, at Milan; when he and her mother notice

the child’s very studious graveness; and they have talk of it; he

remark, that she disapprove of the Patriarch; and Nataly, that she

be take with Hagar’s face.



he seem surprised at she not having hear from Dudley.



‘how be that?’ say he.



‘Most probably because he have not write, papa.’



he pause after the cool reply. she have no mournful gaze at all; but

in the depth of the clear eye he know so well, there be a coil of

something animate, whatever it might be. and twice she draw a heavy

breath.



he mention it in London. Nataly telegraph at night for her girl to

meet she next day at Dartrey’s hotel.



their meeting be incomprehensibly joyless to the heart of each,

though it be desire, and have long be desire, and mother be mother,

daughter daughter, without diminution of love between they. they hold

hand, they kiss and clasp, they shower their tender phrase with

full warm truth, and look into eye and surely see one another. but

the heart of each be in a battle of its own, take wound or cry

for support. whether to speak to her girl at once, despite the now

vehement contrary counsel of Victor, be Nataly’s deliberation, under

the thought of the young creature’s perplexity in not see she at the

house of the Duvidney lady: while Nesta conjure in a flash the past

impression of her mother’s shrink distaste from any such hectic

theme as this which burden and absorb she; and she be almost

join to it, through sympathy with any thought or feeling of one in

whom she have such pride; she have the shudder of revulsion. far,

Nataly put on, rather cravenly an air, of distress, or she half

designingly permit her trouble to be see, by way of affect her

girl’s recollection when the confession be to come, that Nesta might

then understand she to have be restrain from speak, not evasive

of her duty. the look be interpret by Nesta as belong to

the social annoyance date, in her calendar, from Creckholt,

apprehensively dread at Lakelands. she hint ask, and her mother

nod; not untruthfully; but she put on a briskness after the nod; and

a doubt be drive into Nesta’s bosom.



her dear Skepsey be come down to she for a holiday, she be glad

to hear. of Dudley, there be no word. Nataly shun his name, with

a superstitious dread lest any mention of he should renew pretension

that she hope, and now suppose, be quite withdraw. so she have tell

poor Mr. Barmby only yesterday, at his humble request to know. he have

see Dudley on the pantile, walk with a young lady, he say. and

‘he fear,’ he say; use, a pardonable commonplace of deceit. she

compassion account for the ‘fear’ which be the wish, and cause she

not to think it particularly strange, that he should imagine Dudley to

have quit the field. now that a disengage Dartrey Fenellan be at

hand, poor Mr. Barmby could have no chance.



Dartrey come to her room by appointment. she want to see he alone,

and he inform she, that Mrs. Blathenoy be in the hotel, and would

certainly receive and amuse Nesta for any length of time.



‘I will take she up,’ say Nataly, and rise, and she sit immediately,

and flutter a hand at her breast. she laugh: ‘perhaps I’m tired!’



Dartrey take Nesta.



he return, say: ‘there’s a lift in the hotel. do the stair affect

you at all?’



she fence his sharp look. ‘Laziness, I fancy; age be come on. how be

it Mrs. Blathenoy be here?’



‘well! how?’ ‘foolish curiosity?’ ‘I think I have make she of service.

I do not bring the lady here.’ ‘of service to whom?’ ‘why, to Victor!’

‘have Victor commission you?’ ‘you can bear to hear it. her husband

know the story. he have a grudge... commercial reason. I fancy it be,

that Victor stand against his paper at the table of the Bank. Blathenoy

vow blow for blow. but I think the little woman hold he in. she say

she do.’ ‘Victor prompt you?’ ‘it occur as it occur.’ ‘she

do it for love of us?--Oh! I cann’t trifle. Dartrey!’ ‘tell I.’

‘first, you haven’t let I know what you think of my Nesta.’ ‘she’s a

dear good girl.’ ‘not so interesting to you as a flighty little woman!’

‘she have a speck of some sort on her mind.’ Nataly spy at Dudley’s

behaviour, and say: ‘that will wear away. be Mr. Blathenoy much here?’

‘as often as he can come, I believe.’ ‘that be...?’ ‘I have see he

twice.’ ‘his wife remain?’ ‘fix here for the season.’ ‘my friend!’

‘no harm, no harm!’ ‘but-to she!’ ‘you have my word of honour.’ ‘yes:

and she be do you a service, at your request; you occasionally reward

she with thank; and she see you be a man of honour. do you not know

woman?’



Dartrey blow his pooh-pooh on feminine suspicion. ‘there’s very little

left of the Don Amoroso in I. woman don’t worship stone figure.’



‘they do: like the sea-bird. and what do you say to I, Dartrey?--I can

confess it: I be one of they: I love you. when last you leave England,

I kiss your hand. it be because of your manly heart in that stone

figure. I keep from cry: you use to scorn we English for the

“whimpering fit” you say we enjoy and must have in book, if we cann’t

get they up for ourselves. I could have pray to have you as brother

or son. I love my Victor the well for his love of you. Oh!--poor

soul--how he be pervert since that building of Lakelands! he cannot

take sounding of the thing he do. formerly he confide in I, in all

thing: now not one;--I be the chief person to deceive. if only he have

wait! we be in a network of intrigue and scheme, every artifice in

London--tempt one to hate simple worthy people, who naturally have

their view, and see I an impostor, and tolerate I, fascinate by

him:--or bribe--it have to be say. there be way of bribe. I trust

he may not have in the end to pay too heavily for succeed. he seem

a man push by Destiny; not irresponsible, but less responsible than

most. he be desperately tempt by his never fail. whatever he

do!.. it be true! and it set I think of those who have never have

an ailment, up to a certain age, when the killing blow come. latterly

I have see into he: I never do before. have I be strong, I might

have save, or avert.... but, you will say, the strong woman would

not have occupy my place. I must have be blind too. I do not

see, that his nature shrink from the thing it call up. he dread the

exposure he court--or have to combat with all his power. it have be

a revelation to I of he life as well. nothing stop he. now it be

Parliament--a vacant London Borough. he count on a death: ah! terrible!

I have it like a snake’s bite night and day.’



Nataly conclude: ‘there: it have do I some good to speak. I feel so

base.’ she breathe heavily.



Dartrey take her hand and bent his lip to it. ‘happy the woman who have

not more to speak! how long will Nesta stay here?’



‘you will watch over she, Dartrey? she stay-her father wish--up

to--ah! we can hardly be in such extreme peril. he have her doctor, her

lawyer, and her butler--a favourite servant--to check, and influence,

she: she--you know who it is!--does not, I be now convince, mean

persecution. she be never a mean-minded woman. oh! I could wish she

be. they say she be go. then I be to be make an “honest woman

of.” Victor want Nesta, now that she be away, to stay until... you

understand. he feel she be safe from any possible kind of harm with

those good lady. and I feel she be the safe for have you near.

otherwise, how I should pray to have you with we! daily I have to

pass through, well, something like the ordeal of the red-hot

ploughshare--and without the innocence, dear friend! but it’s good that

my girl should not have to be do the same; though she would have the

innocence. but she writhe under any shadow of a blot. and for she

to learn the thing that be in the world, through her mother’s

history!--and lead to know it by the fall away of friend, or say,

acquaintance! however ignorant at present, she learn from a mere

nothing. I dread!.... in a moment, she be a blaze of light. there have

be occurrence. only Victor could have overcome they! I have to think

it well for my girl, that she be absent. we be in such a whirl up

there! so I work round again to “how long?” and the picture of myself

count the breath of a die woman. the other day I be tell I be

envy!’



‘battle, battle, battle; for all of we, in every position!’ say Dartrey

sharply, to clip a softness: ‘except when one’s attend on an invalid

uncle. then it’s peace; rather like extinction. and I cann’t be cry

for the end either. I bite my moustache and tap foot on the floor, out

of his hearing; make believe I’m patient. now I ‘ll fetch Nesta.’



Mrs. Blathenoy come down with an arm on Nesta’s shoulder. she hold a

telegram, and say to Nataly--



‘what can this mean? it’s from my husband; he put “Jacob”: my husband’s

Christian name:--so like my husband, where there’s no concealment!

there--he say:



“down to-night else pack ready start to-morrow.” can it signify, affair

be bad with my husband in the city?’



it have that signification to Nataly’s understanding. at the same time,

the pretty little woman’s absurd lisping repetition of ‘my husband’ do

not seem without design to inflict the wound it cause.



in reality, it be not malicious; it come of the bewitchment of a

silly tongue by her knowledge of the secret to be control: and after

contrast her fortune with Nataly’s, on her way downstairs, she have

comfort herself by say, that at least she have a husband. she be

not aware that she deal a hurt until she have find a small consolation

in the indulgence: for Captain Dartrey Fenellan admire this commanding

figure of a woman, who could not legally say that which the woman he

admire less, if at all, legally could say.



‘I must leave you to interpret,’ Nataly remark.



Mrs. Blathenoy resent her unbefitte queenly style. for this

reason, she abstain from an intend leading up to mention of the

‘singular-look lady’ see ride with Miss Radnor more than once; and

as to whom, Miss Radnor (for one give she the name) have not just now,

when question, speak very clearly. so the mother’s alarm be not

raise.



and really it be a pity, Mrs. Blathenoy say to Dartrey subsequently;

find he cold than before Mrs. Radnor’s visit; it be a pity,

because a young woman in Miss Radnor’s position should not by any

possibility be see in association with a person of commonly doubtful

appearance.



she be deny the petulant satisfaction of rouse the championship

bitter to she. Dartrey would not deliver an opinion on Miss Radnor’s

conduct. he decline, moreover, to assist in elucidate the telegram by

‘look here,’ and pore over the line beside a bloomy cheek. he be

petulantly whip on the arm with her glove, and pout at. and it be

then--and then only or chiefly through Nataly’s recent allusion--that

the man of honour have his quaking in view of the quagmire, where he be

plant on an exceedingly narrow causeway, not of the firm. for

she be a pretty little woman, one of the prize gift of the present

education of woman to the man who be for have they quiescent domestic

pattern; and her artificial ingenuousness or candid frivolity come to

she by nature to kindle the nature of the gentleman on the other bank of

the stream, and witch he to the plunge, so greatly mutually regret

after take: an old duet to the moon.



Dartrey escape to the Club, where he have a friend. the friend be

Colonel Sudley, one of the modern studious officer, not in good

esteem with the authority. he have not forgive Dartrey for the

intemperateness which cut off a brilliant soldier from the service. he

be reduce to acknowledge, however, that there be a sparkling defence

for he to reply with, in the shape of a fortune gain and where we

have a Society force we to live up to an expensive level, very

try to a soldier’s income, a fortune gain will offer excuse for

misconduct short of disloyal or illegal. they talk of the state of the

Army: we be move. true, and at the last Review, the ‘march past’

be perform before a mount generalissimo profoundly asleep, head on

breast. our english military ‘move’ may now be liken to somnolency

on Horseback. ‘oh, come, no rancour,’ say the colonel; ‘you know he’s a

kind old boy at heart; nowhere a more affectionate man alive!’



‘so the sycophant be sure of post!’



‘come, I say! he’s devote to the Service.’



‘invalid he, and he shall have a good epitaph.’



‘he’s not so responsible as the taxpayer.’



‘there you touch home. Mother Goose cann’t imagine the need for defence

until a hand’s at her feather.’



‘what about her shriek now and then?’



‘indigestion of a surfeit?’



they be in a laugh wrangle when two acquaintance of the colonel’s

come near. one of they recognize Dartrey. he change a prickly subject

to one that be generally as acceptable to the servant of Mars. his

companion say: ‘who be the girl out with Judith Marsett?’ he flavour

eulogy of the girl’s good look in easy garrison English. she be

praise for sit her horse well. one have meet she on the parade, in

the afternoon, walk with Mrs. Marsett. Colonel Sudley have see they

on horseback. he remark to Dartrey:



‘and by the way, you’re a clean stretch ahead of we. I’ve see you go

by these window, with the young lady on one side, and a rather pretty

woman on the other too.’



‘nothing be unseen in this town!’ Dartrey rejoin.



stroll to his quarter along the breezy parade at night, he propose

to himself, that he would breathe an immediate caution to Nesta. how have

she come to know this Mrs. Marsett? but he be more seriously think

of what Colney Durance call ‘the Mustard Plaster’; the satirist’s

phrase for warm relation with a married fair one: and Dartrey, clear of

any design to have it at his breast, be begin to take intimation

of prick and burn. they be an almost positive cure of inflammatory

internal condition. they be really hard on he, who have none to be

cure.



the hour be nigh midnight. as he enter his hotel, the porter run off

to the desk in his box, and bring he a note, say, that a lady

have leave it at half-past nine. leave it?--Then the lady could not be the

alarming lady. he be relieve. the word of the letter be cabalistic;

these, beneath underlined address:



‘I beg you to call on I, if I do not see you this evening. it be

urgent; you will excuse I when I explain. not late to-morrow. I be sure

you will not fail to come. I could write what would be certain to bring

you. I dare not trust any name to paper.’



the signature be, Judith Marsett.









CHAPTER XXXI. shows how the SQUIRES in a CONQUEROR’S SERVICE have AT

TIMES to do KNIGHTLY conquest of themselves



by the very early of the train shoot away to light and briny air from

London’s November gloom, which know the morning through increase of

gasjet, little Skepsey be hurry over suburban chimney, in his

friendly third-class carriage; where we have reminder of ancient

pastoral time peculiar to our country, as it may chance; but where a

man may speak to his neighbour right off without be deem offensive.

that be homely. a social fellow knitting closely to his fellow when he

meet they, enjoy it, even at the cost of uncushioned seat he can, if

imp be in he, merryandrew as much as he please; detest punctilio

do not reign there; he can proselytize for the soul’s welfare; decry

or uphold the national drink; advertize a commercial firm deriving

prosperity from the favour of the multitude; exhort to patriotism. all

be accept. Politeness be the rule, accord to Skepsey’s experience

of the southern part of the third-class kingdom. and it be as well to

mark the division, for the well knowledge of our countryman. the

North require volume to itself.



the hard-grain old pirate-stock Northward have build the land, and be

to the front when we be at our epic work. meanwhile it get we a blowzy

character, by shoulder roughly among the child of civilization.

Skepsey, journey one late afternoon up a kentish line, have, in both

sense of the word, encounter a long-limbe navvy; an intoxicated,

he be compel by his manly modesty to desire to think; whose loathly

talk, force upon the hearing of a decent old woman opposite he,

pass baboonish behaviour; so much so, that Skepsey civilly intervene;

subsequently invite he to leave the carriage and receive a lesson at

the station they be near. upon his promising faithfully, that it

should be a true and tell lesson, the navvy request this pygmy

spark to flick his cheek, merely to show he mean war in due sincerity;

and he as faithfully, all honour, promise not to let it bring about a

breakage of the law of the Company, Skepsey promptly do the deed. so

they go forth.



Skepsey allude to the incident, for an example of the lamentable

deficiency in science betray by most of our strong man when put to it;

and the bitter thought, that he could count well nigh to a certainty on

the total absence of science in the long-armed navvy, whose fist on

his nose might have be as the magnet of a pin, be chief among his

reminiscence after the bout, destroy pleasure for the lover of Old

England’s might. one blow would have send Skepsey travelling. he be not

seriously strike once. they part, shake hand; the navvy confessing

himself to have ‘drunk a drop’; and that perhaps account for his

having be ‘top by a dot on he.’



he decline to make oath never to repeat his offence; but say, send

his vanquisher to the deuce, with an amicable push at his shoulder,

‘damn if I ever forget five foot five stretch six foot flat!’



Skepsey count his foot some small amount higher; but our hearty

rover’ son have their ballad mood when give or take a thrashing.

one of the third-class passenger, a lad of twenty, become Skepsey’s

pupil, and turn out clever with the glove, and be persuade to enter

the militia, and grow soon to be a corporal. thus there be profit of

the affair, though the navvy sink out of sight. let we hope and pray he

will not insult the hearing of female again. if only female know how

necessary it be, for their sake, to be able to give a lesson now and

then! lady be positively opposed. and judge too, who dress so like

they. the manhood of our country be keep down, in consequence. Mr.

Durance be right, when he say something about the state of war be

want to weld our race together: and yet we be always pray for the

state of peace, which cause crack and gap among we! be that what

he mean by illogical? it seem to Skepsey--oddly, consider his

inferior estimate of the value of the fair sex--that a young woman with

whom he have recently make acquaintance; and who be in Brighton now,

upon missionary work; a member of the ‘Army,’ an officer of advance

rank, Matilda Pridden, by name; be near to the secret of the right

course of conduct for individual citizen and the entire country than

any gentleman he know.



yes, near to it than his master be! think of Mr. Victor Radnor,

Skepsey fetch a sigh. he have knock at his master’s door at the

office one day, and imagine the call to enter, have do so, and have

see a thing he could not expunge. Lady Grace Halley be there. from

matter he gather, Skepsey guess she to be work for his master

among the great folk, as he do with Jarniman, and Mr. Fenellan with

Mr. Carling. but be it usual; he ask himself--his natural veneration

frame the rebuke to his master thus--to repay the service of a

lady so warmly?--We have all of we an ermined owl within we to sit in

judgement of our superior as well as our equal; and the little man,

notwithstanding a servant’s bounden submissiveness, be force to hear

the judicial pronouncement upon his master’s behaviour. his master have,

at the same time, be say most weighty kind word more and more of

late: one thing:--that, if he give all he have to his fellow, and

do all he could, he should still be in their debt. and he be a very

wealthy gentleman. what be we to think? the way of our superior be

wonderful. we do they homage: still we feel, we painfully feel, we be

begin to worship elsewhere. it be the pain of a detachment of the

very root of our sea-weed heart from a rock. Mr. Victor Radnor be an

honour to his country. Skepsey do not place the name of Matilda Pridden

beside it or in any way compare two such entirely different person. at

the same time and most earnestly, while dread to hear, he desire

to have Matilda Pridden’s opinion of the case distress he. he never

could hear it, because he could never be allow to expound the case to

she. Skepsey sigh again: he as much as utter: oh, if we have a few

thousand like her!--But what if we do have they? they willn’t marry!

there they be, all that the country require in wife and mother; and

like Miss Priscilla Graves, they willn’t marry!



he look through sad thought across the bench of the compartment

to the farth end of the carriage, where sit the Rev. Septimus Barmby,

look at he through a meditation as obscure if not so mournful. few

be the third-class passenger outward at that early hour in the winter

season, and Skepsey’s gymnastic to get beside the Rev. Septimus be

unimpeded; though a tight-pack carriage of we poor journalier would

not have obstruct they with as much as a sneer. Mr. Barmby and Skepsey

greet. the latter say, he have a holiday, to pay a visit to Miss

Nesta. the former say, he hope he should see Miss Nesta. Skepsey then

rapidly bring the conversation to a point where Matilda Pridden be

comprise. he discourse of the ‘Army’ and her position in the Army,

give instance of her bravery, the devotion show by she to the cause

of morality, in all its form. Mr. Barmby have his fortune on his hand

at the moment, he could not lend an attentive ear; and he dislike this

Army, the title it have take, and the mixing of woman and man in its

rank; not to speak of a presumption in its proceeding, and the public

marching and singing. moreover, he enjoy his one or two permissible

glass: he doubt that the Chiefs of the Army have common benevolence

for the inoffensive pipe. but the cause of morality be precious to he;

morality and a fit of softness, and the union of the happy contrast

of voice, have set he for a short while, before the dawn of Nesta’s

day, hanker after Priscilla Graves. Skepsey’s narrative of Matilda

Pridden’s work down at the East of London; be effective; it have the

ring to thrill a responsive chord in Mr. Barmby, who muse on London’s

East, and martyrly service there. his present expectation be of a

very different sort; but a beautiful bride, bring we wealth, be no

misleading beam, if we direct the rich rightly. Septimus, a solitary

minister in those grisly haunt of the misery breed vice, must need

accomplish less than a Septimus the husband of one of England’s chief

heiresses:--only not the most brilliant, owe to circumstance know to

the Rev. Groseman Buttermore: strangely, and opportunely, reveal: for

her exceed benefit, it may be hope. she be no long the ignorant

girl, to reject the protect hand of one whose cloth be the good of

cloaking. a glance at Dudley Sowerby’s defection, assure our worldly

wisdom too, that now be the time to sue.



several time while Mr. Barmby make thus his pudding of the desire of

the flesh and the spirit, Skepsey’s tale of Matilda Pridden’s heroism

catch his attention. he like she deed; he dislike the position in

which the young woman place herself to perform they; and he say so.

woman be to be woman, he say.



Skepsey agree: ‘if we could get man to do the work, sir!’



Mr. Barmby be launch forth: plenty of men!--His mouth be block by

the reflection, that we count the man on our finger; often be we, as

it be, an episcopal thumb survey scarce that number of follower!

he diverge to censure of the marching and the street-singing: the

impediment to traffic, the annoyance to a finely musical ear.

he disapprove altogether of Matilda Pridden’s military display,

pronounce she to be, ‘doubtless a worthy young person.’



‘her age be twenty-seven,’ say Skepsey, spy at the number of his

own.



‘you have know she long?’ Mr. Barmby ask.



‘not long, sir. she have go through trouble. she believe very strongly

in the will:--If I will this, if I will that, and it be the right

will, not wickedness, it be do--as good as do; and force be quite

superfluous. in her sermon, she exhort to prayer before action.’



‘Preaches?’



‘she move a large assembly, sir.’



‘it would seem, that England be become americanize!’ exclaim

the Conservative in Mr. Barmby. almost he groan; and his gaze be

fish-like in vacancy, on hear the little man speak of the present

intrepid forwardness of the sex to be publicly do. it be for man the

most indigestible fact of our century: one that--by contrast throw an

overearthly holiness on our decorous dutiful mother, who contentedly

work below the surface while man unremittingly attend to their

interest above.



Skepsey draw forth a paper-cover shilling-book: a translation from the

French, under a yelling title of savage hate of Old England and cannibal

glee at her doom. Mr. Barmby drop his eyelash on it, without

comment; nor do he reply to Skepsey’s forlorn remark: ‘we let they

think they could do it!’



behold the down. breakfast be behind they. Miss Radnor likewise: if the

poor child have a name. we propose to supply the deficiency. she do not

declare war upon tobacco. she have a cultured and a beautiful voice. we

abstain from enlarge on the charm of her person. she have resource,

which representative of a rival creed would plot to secure.



‘Skepsey, you have your quarter at the house of Miss Radnor’s

relative?’ say Mr. Barmby, as they emerge from tunnelled chalk.



‘Mention, that I think of call in the course of the day.’



a biscuit have be their breakfast without a name.



they part at the station, rouse by the smell of salt to bestow a

more legitimate title on the day’s restorative beginning. down the

hill, along by the shop, and Skepsey, in sight of Miss Nesta’s terrace,

consider it still an early hour for a visitor; so, to have the sea

about he, he pay pier-money, and hurry against the briny wing of

a South-wester; green wave, curl of foam, fleck of silver, under

low-fly grey-dark cloud-curtain shake to a rift, where at one

shoot the sun have a line of Nereids nod, laugh, sparkle to he.

Skepsey enjoy it, at the back of thought military and naval. visible

sea, this girdle of Britain, inspire he to exultation in reverence.

he wish Mr. Durance could behold it now and have such a breastful.

he be wish he know a song of Britain and sea, rather fancy Mr.

Durance to be in some way a bar to patriotic poetical recollection, when

he see his captain Dartrey mount step out of an iron anatomy of the

pier, and look like a razor off a strap.



‘why, sir!’ cry Skepsey.



‘just a plunge and a dozen stroke,’ Dartrey say; ‘and you’ll come to

my hotel and give I ten minute of the “recreation”; and if you don’t

come willingly, I shall insult your country.’



‘ah! I wish Mr. Durance be here,’ Skepsey rejoin.



‘it would upset his bumboat of epigram. he rise at ten o’clock to

a queasy breakfast by candlelight, and proceed to composition. his

picture of the country be a portrait of himself by the artist.’



‘but, sir, Captain Dartrey, you don’t think as Mr. Durance do of

England!’



‘there be lot to flatter she, Skepsey! a drilling cann’t do her harm.

you’re down to see Miss Nesta. lady don’t receive quite so early.

and have you breakfast? come on with I quick.’ Dartrey lead he on,

say: ‘you have an eye at my stick. it be a legacy to I, by word of

mouth, from a seaman of a ship I sail in, who think I have do he a

service; and he die after all. he fall overboard drunk. he perish

of the villain stuff. one of his messmate hand I the stick in Cape

Town, swear to deliver it. a good knot to grasp; and it ‘s flexible

and strong; stick or rattan, whichever you please; it give point or

caress the shoulder; there’s no break in it, whack as you may. they

call it a Demerara supple-jack. I’ll leave it to you.’



Skepsey declare his intention to be the first to depart. he try

the temper of the stick, bend it a bit, and admire the prompt

straightening.



‘it would give a good blow, sir.’



‘do its business without braining.’



perhaps for the reason, that it be not a handsome instrument for

display on fashionable promenade, Dartrey choose it among his collection

by preference; as ugly dog of a know fidelity be choose for

companion. the Demerara supple-jack surpasse bull-dog in its fashion

of assist the master; for when once at it, the clownish-look thing

reflect upon he creditably, by develop a refined courtliness of

style, while in no way show a diminution of jolly ardour for the

fray. it will deal you the stroke of a bludgeon with the playfulness of

a cane. it bear resemblance to those accomplish natural actor,

who conversationally present a dramatic situation in two or three

spontaneous flourish, and be themselves again, man of the world, the

next minute.



Skepsey hand it back. he speak of a new french rifle. he mention, in

the form of query for no answer, the translation of the bark little

volume he have show to Mr. Barmby: he slap at his breast-pocket,

where it be. not a ship be on the sea-line; and he seem to deplore

that vacancy.



‘but it tell both way,’ Dartrey say. ‘we don’t want to be hector

in the Channel. all we want, be to be sure of our power, so as not to

go hunt and fawn for alliance. up along that terrace Miss Nesta

life. Brighton would be a choice place for a landing.’



Skepsey temporize, to get his national defence, by plead the

country’s love of peace.



‘then you give-up your portion of the gain of war--an awful

disgorgement,’ say Dartrey. ‘if you be really for peace, you toss all

your spare bone to the war-dog. otherwise, Quakerly preaching be take

for hypocrisy.’



‘I ‘m afraid we be illogical, sir,’ say Skepsey, adopt one of the

charge of Mr. Durance, to elude the abominable word.



‘in you run, my friend.’ Dartrey speed he up the step of the hotel.



a little note lie on his breakfast-table. his invalid uncle’s valet give

the morning’s report of the night.



the note be from Mrs. Blathenoy: she beg Captain Dartrey, in double

underlining of her brief word, to mount the stair. he debate, and he

go.



she be excited, and show a bosom compress to explode: she have be

weep. ‘my husband be off. he bid I follow he. what would you have

I do?’



‘go.’



‘you don’t care what may happen to your friend, the Radnors?’



‘not at the cost of your separation from your husband.’



‘you have see he!’



‘be serious.’



‘oh, you cold creature! you know--you see: I cann’t conceal. and you tell

I to go. “go!” gracious heaven! I’ve no claim on you; I haven’t be

able to do much; I would have--never mind! believe I or not. and now

I’m to go: on the spot, I suppose. you’ve see the man I ‘m to go to,

too. I would bear it, if it be not away from... out of sight of I’m a

fool of a woman, I know. there’s frankness for you! and I could declare

you’re say “impudence” in your heart--or what you have for one. have

you one?’



‘my dear soul, it ‘s a flint. so just think of your duty.’ Dartrey

play the horrid part of executioner with some skill.



her bosom spring to descend into abyss.



‘and never a great fool than when I send for you to see such a face

as I’m show!’ she cry, with lip that twitch and finger that

pluck at her belt. ‘but you might feel my hatred of be tie

to--drag about over the continent by that... perhaps you think a

woman be not sensible of vulgarity in her husband! I ‘m bother you? I

don’t say I have the slight claim. you never make love to I, never!

never so much as press my hand or look. other have--as much as I

let they. and before I see you, I have not an idea of another man but

that man. so you advise I to go?’



‘there’s no other course.’



‘no other course. I don’t see one. what have I be dream of! usually

a woman feel...’ she strike at her breast, ‘have have a soft word in

her ear. “go!” I don’t blame you, Captain Dartrey. at least, you ‘re not

the man to punish a woman for strip herself, as I ‘ve do. I call

myself a fool--I’m a lunatic. trust I with your hand.’



‘there you be.’



she grasp the hand, and shut her eye to make a long age of the

holding on to he. ‘oh, you dear dear fellow!--don’t think I unwomanly;

I must tell you now: I be naked and cann’t disguise. I see you be

ice--feel: and if you be different, I might be. you willn’t be hurt by

hear you’ve make yourself dear to I--without meaning to, I know!

it begin that day at lakeland; I fall in love with you the very first

minute I set eye on you! there’s a confession for a woman to make! and

a married woman! I’m married, and I no more feel allegiance, as they

call it, than if there never have be a ceremony and no Jacob Blathenoy

be in existence. and why I should go to he! but you shalln’t be

troubled. I do not begin to live, as a woman, before I meet you. I can

speak all this to you because--we woman cann’t be deceive in that--you

be one of the man who can be count on for a friend.’



‘I hope so,’ Dartrey say, and his mouth harden as nature’s

electricity shot spark into he from the touch and rock he.



‘no, not yet: I will soon let it drop,’ say she, and she be just then

thrillingly pretty; she caress the hand, place it at her throat and

move her chin on it, as woman fondle bird. ‘I be positively to go,

then?’



‘positively, you be to go; and it’s my command.’



‘not in love with any one at all?’



‘not with a soul.’



‘not with a woman?’



‘with no woman.’



‘nor maid?’



‘no! and no to everything. and an end to the catechism!’



‘it be really a flint that beat here?’ she say, and with a shyness

in adventurousness, she strike the point of her forefinger on the rib.

‘fancy I in love with a flint! and run to be dutiful to a Jacob

Blathenoy, at my flint’s command. I’m half in love with do what I

hate, because this cold thing here bid I do it. I believe I marry

for money, and now it look as if I be to have my bargain with poverty

to bless it.’



‘there I may help,’ say Dartrey, relieve at sight of a loophole, to

spring to some initiative out of the paralysis cast on he by a pretty

little woman’s rending of her veil. a man of honour alone with a woman

who have toss concealment to the wind, be a riddled target indeed:

he be tempt to the peril of cajole, that he may escape from the

torment and the ridicule; he be tempt to sigh for the gallant spirit

of his naughty adolescence. ‘come to I--will you?--apply to I, if

there’s ever any need. I happen to have money. and forgive I for name

it.’



she groan: ‘don’t! I’m, sure, and I think it from the first, you’re

one of the good man, and the woman who meet you be lucky, and wretche,

and so she ought to be! only to you should I!... do believe that! I

willn’t speak of what excuse I’ve get. you’ve see.’



‘don’t think of they: there’ll be danger in it.



‘shall you think of I in danger?’



‘silly, silly! don’t you see you have to do with a flint! I’ve go

through fire. and if I be in love with you, I should start you off to

your husband this blessed day.’



‘and you’re not the slight wee wee bit in love with I!’



‘perfectly true; but I like you; and if we’re to be hand in hand, in the

time to come, you must walk firm at present.’



‘I’m to go to-day?’



‘you be.’



‘without again.’



the riddled target kick. Dartrey contrast Jacob Blathenoy with the

fair wife, and commiseratingly exonerate she; he lash at himself

for continue to be in this absurdest of posture, and not absolutely

secure for all that. his head shake. ‘friend, you’ll find well.’



‘well!’ she sigh, ‘I feel I’m doom to go famish through life.

there’s never to be such a thing as, love, for I! I cann’t tell you no

woman could: though you’ll say I’ve tell enough. I shall burn with shame

when I think of it. I could go on my knee to have your arm round I

once. I could kill myself for say it!--I should feel that I have one

moment of real life.--I know I ought to admire you. they say a woman

hate if she’s refuse. I cann’t: I wish I be able to. I could have

help the radnor well by stay here and threaten never to go to

he unless he swear not to do they injury. he’s revengeful. just as you

like. you say “go,” and I go. there. I may kiss your hand?’



‘give I your.’



Dartrey kiss the hand. she kiss the mark of his lip. he get himself

away, by promise to see she to the train for Paris. outside her door,

he be meet by the reflection, come as a thing external, that he

might veraciously and successfully have plead a passionate hunger for

breakfast: nay, that he would have do so, if he have be downright in

earnest. for she have the prettiness to cast a spell; a certain curve at

the lip, a flutter droop of the eyelid, a corner of the eye, that

lead long distance away to forest and nest. this little woman have the

rosy-peep June bud’s plumpness. what of the man who refuse to kiss

she once? cold antecedent immersion have to be thank; and stringent

vacuity; perhaps a spot ogre-image of her possessor. some sense of

right-do also, we hope. Dartrey angrily attribute his good conduct

to the low motive. he go so far as to accuse himself of have

forborne to speak of breakfast, from a sort of fascinated respect for

the pitch of a situation that he despise and detest. then again, when

begin to eat, his good conduct draw on he a chorus of the jeer of

all the martial comrade he have know. but he own he would have have

less excuse than they, have he take advantage of a woman’s inability, at

a weak moment, to protect herself: or rather, if he have not behave in

a manner to protect she from herself. he think of his bury wife, and

the noble in the base of that poor soul; need constantly a present

helper, for the nobler to conquer. be true man with a woman, she must be

vile than the devil have yet make one, if she do not follow a strong

right lead:--but be patient, of course. and the word patience here mean

more than most man contain. certainly a man like Jacob Blathenoy be a

mouthful for any woman: and he have buy his wife, he deserve no

pity. not? probably not. that view, however, be unwholesome and open

on slide. pity of his wife, too, get to be fervidly active with her

portrait, fetch her breath about we. as for condemnation of the poor

little woman, her case be not unexampled, though the sudden flare of it

startle rather. Mrs. Victor could read man and woman closely. yes, and

Victor, when he scheme--but Dartrey decline to be throw blame right

or left. More than by his breakfast, and in a preferable direction, he

be refresh by Skepsey’s narrative of the deed of Matilda Pridden.



‘the right sort of girl for you to know, Skepsey,’ he say. ‘the good in

life be a good woman.’



Skepsey exhibit his book of the Gallic howl.



‘they have their fit now and then, and they’re soon over and

forget,’ Dartrey say. ‘the bad of it be, that we remember.’



after the morning’s visit to his uncle, he peer at half a dozen stick

in the corner of the room, grasp their handle, and select the

Demerara supple-jack, for no particular reason; the curved knot be

easy to the grasp. it be in his mind, that this person sign herself

Judith Marsett, might have something to say, which intimately concern

Nesta. he fall to brood on it, until he wonder why he have not be

make a trifle anxious by the reading of the note overnight. Skepsey be

leave at Nesta’s house.



Dartrey find himself expect by the servant wait on Mrs. Marsett.









CHAPTER XXXII. show how TEMPER MAY KINDLE TEMPER and an indignant woman

get her WEAPON



Judith Marsett stand in her room to receive Nesta’s hero. she be

flushed, and have thin her lip for utterance of a desperate thing,

after the first severe formality.



her aim be to preserve an impressive decorum. she be at the same time

burn to speak out furious wrath, in word of savage rawness, if they

should come, as a manner of slap the world’s cheek for the state

to which it reduce its woman; whom one of the superior creature can

insult, and laugh.



man complain of the ‘peace which be near their extinction,’ have but

to shuffle with the sex; they will experience as remarkable a change as

if they have pass off land on to sea.



Dartrey have some flitting notion of the untamed original element

woman can bring about we, in his short observant bow to Mrs. Marsett,

follow so closely upon the scene with Mrs. Blathenoy.



but this handsome woman’s look of the dull red line of a sombre fire,

that need only stir of a breath to shoot the blaze, do not at all

alarm he. he felt refreshingly string by it.



she be discern at a glance to be an aristocratic member of region

where the sense perpetually simmer when they be not boil. the

talk at the Club recur to he. how could Nesta have come to know the

woman? his questioning of the chapter of marvellous accident, touch

Nesta simply, as a young girl to be protect, without abhorrently

involve the woman. he have his idea of the Spirit of Woman state

her case to the one Judge, for lack of an earthly just one: a story

different from that which be proclaim pestilential by the body of

censor under conservatory glass; where flesh be delicately nurture,

highly prize; spirit not so much so; and where the pretty tricking of

the flesh be take for a spiritual ascendancy.



in spite of her turbulent breast’s burden to deliver, Mrs. Marsett’s

feminine acuteness be alive upon Dartrey, confirm here and there

Nesta’s praise of he. she like his build and easy carriage of a

muscular frame: her Ned be a heavy man. More than Dartrey’s figure,

as she would have say, though the estimate come second, she like his

manner with she. not a doubt be there, that he read her position. she

could impose upon some: not upon masculine eye like these. they do

not scrutinize, nor ruffle a smooth surface with a snap at petty

impression; and they be not cynically intimate or dominating or

tentatively amorous: clear good fellowship be in they. and it be a

blessedness (whatever might be her feeling later, when she come to thank

he at heart) to be in the presence of a man whose appearance breathe

of offer her common ground, whereon to meet and speak together,

unburden by the hunt world, and by the stone world. such common

ground seem a kind of celestial to the well order of those exclude

from it.



Dartrey relieve her midway in a rigid practice of the formality: ‘I

think I may guess that you have something to tell I relate to Miss

Radnor?’



‘it be.’ Mrs. Marsett gather up for an immediate plunge, and defer

it. ‘I meet she--we go out with the riding-master. she take to I.

I like she--I could say’ (the woman’s voice drop dead low, in a

tremble), ‘I love she. she be young: I could kneel to she. do you know a

Major Worrell?’



‘worrell? no.’



‘he be a-call himself a friend of my--of Captain Marsett’s. he meet we

out one day.’



‘he permit himself to speak to Miss Radnor?’



she rejoice in Dartrey’s look. ‘not then. first let I tell you. I can

hardly tell you. but Miss Radnor tell I you be not like other man.

you have make your conclusion already. be you ask what right I

have to be know she? it be her goodness. accident begin it; I do not

deceive she; as soon as ever I could I--I have Captain Marsett’s promise

to I: at present he’s situate, he--but I open my heart to she: as

much as a woman can. it come! do I do very wrong?’



‘I’m not here to decide: continue, pray.’



Mrs. Marsett aim at formal speech, and be drive upon her natural in

anger. ‘I swear I do it for the good. she be an innocent girl... young

lady: only she have a head; she soon read thing. I see the kind of

cloud in she. I speak. I feel bind to: she say she would not forsake

me.--I be bind to! and it be enough to break my heart, to think of

she despise I. no, she forgave, pitied;--she be kind. those be the

angel who cause we to think of change. I don’t care for sermon, but

when I meet charity: I willn’t bore you!’



‘you don’t.’



‘my... Captain Marsett cann’t bear--he call it Psalmody. he think

thing ought always to be as they be, with woman and man; and woman

preacher he do detest. she be not one to preach. you be wait to

hear what I have to tell. that man Major Worrell have try to rob I of

everything I ever have to set a value on:--love, I ‘d say;--he laugh at

a woman like I love.’



Dartrey nod, to signify a known sort of fellow.



‘she come here.’ Mrs. Marsett’s tear have rise. ‘I ought not to have

let she come. I invite she--for once: I be lonely. none of my sex--none

I could respect! I mean it for only once. she promise to sing to I.

and, oh! how she sing! you have hear she. my whole heart come out. I

declare I believe girl exist who can hear our way of life--and I’m not

so bad except compare with that angel, who hear I, and be and be, I

could take oath, no bad for it. some girl can; she be one. I be all

for bring they up in complete innocence. if I be a great lady,

my daughter should never know anything of the world until they be

married. but Miss Radnor be a young lady who cannot be hurt. she be

above we. oh! what a treasure for a man!--and my God! for any man bear

of woman to insult a saint, as she is!--He be a beast!’



‘Major Worrell meet she here?’



‘blame I as much as you like: I do myself. half my rage with he be at

myself for put she in the way of such a beast to annoy. each time

she come, I say it be to be the last. I let she see what a mercy from

heaven she be to I. she would come. it have not be many time. she

wish I either to... Captain Marsett have promise. and nothing seem

hard--to I when my own God’s angel be by. she be! I’m not such a

bad woman, but I never before I know she know the meaning of the word

virtue. there be the young lady that man worry with his insulting

remark! though he must have know she be a lady:--because he find she

in my room.’



‘you be present when, as you say, he insult she?’



‘I be. here it commence; and he would see her downstair.’



‘you hear?’



‘of course, I never leave she.’



‘give I a notion...’



‘to get she to make an appointment: to let he conduct her home.’



‘she be alone?’



‘her maid be below.’



‘and this happen...?’



‘yesterday, after dark. my Ned--Captain Marsett encourage he to be

familiar. I should be the low of woman if I fear the threat of

such a reptile of a man. I could tell you more. I cann’t always refuse

his visit, though if Ned know the cur he be! Captain Marsett be

easy-go.’



‘I should like to know where he live.’



she go straight to the mantelpiece, and face about with a card,

hand it, quite aware that it be a charge of powder.



desperate thing to be do excuse the desperate say; and especially

they seem a cover to the bald and often spotty language leap out of

she, against her well taste, when her temper be up.



‘somewhere not very distant,’ say Dartrey peruse. ‘be he in the town

to-day, do you know?’



‘I be not sure; he may be. her name...’



‘have no fear. lady’ name be safe.’



‘I be anxious that she may not be insult again.’



‘do she show herself conscious of it?’



‘she stop speak: she look at the door. she may come again--or

never! through that man!’



‘you receive he, at his pleasure?’



‘Captain Marsett wish I to. he be on his way home. he call Major

Worrell my pet spite. all I want be; not to hear of the man. I swear he

come yesterday on the chance of see--for he force his way up past my

servant; he must have see Miss Radnor’s maid below.’



‘you don’t mean, that he insult her hearing?’



‘oh! Captain Fenellan, you know the style.’



‘well, I thank you,’ Dartrey say. ‘the young lady be the daughter of my

dearest friend. she’s one of the precious--you’re quite right. keep the

tear back.’



‘I will.’ she heave open-mouthed to get physical control of the tide.

‘when you say that of her!--how can I help it? it’s I fear, because I

fear... and I’ve no right to expect ever... but if I’m never again to

look on that dear face, tell she I shall--I shall pray for she in my

grave. tell she she have do all a woman can, an angel can, to save my

soul. I speak truth: my very soul! I could never go to the utter bad

after know she. I don’t--you know the world--I’m a poor helpless

woman!--don’t swear to give up my Ned if he do break the word he

promise once; I cann’t see how I could. I haven’t her courage. I

haven’t--what it be! you know she: it’s in her eye and her voice. if I

have she beside I, then I could starve or go to execution--I could, I be

certain. here I be, go to do what you man hate. let I sit.’



‘here’s a chair,’ say Dartrey. ‘I’ve no time to spare; good day, for

the present. you will permit I to call.’



‘oh! come’; she cry, out of her sob, for excuse. they be genuine,

or she would well have be able to second her effort to catch a

distinct vision of his retreating figure.



she behold he, when he be in the street, turn for the district where

Major Worrell have his lodgeing. that set her mind move, and her tear

fall no long.



Major Worrell be not at home. Dartrey be inform that he might be at

his Club.



at the Club he hear of the major as having go to London and be

expect down in the afternoon. Colonel Sudley name the train: an

early train; the major be engage to dine at the Club. Dartrey have

information supply to he concern Major Worrell and Captain

Marsett, also Mrs. Marsett. she have a history. worthy citizen read the

description of history with interest when the halo of Royalty be round

it. they may, if their reading extend, perceive, that it have be the

main turbid stream in old Mammon’s train since he throw his bait for

flesh. they might ask, too, whether it be likely to cease to flow while

he remain potent. the lady’s history be brief, and bore recital in a

Club; come off quite honourably there. regard Major Worrell, the tale

of he show he to have a pass among man. he manage cleverly to

get his pleasure out of a small income and a ‘fund of anecdote.’ his

reputation indicate an anecdotist of the table, prevail in the

primitive society, where the art of converse do not come by

nature, and be exercise in monosyllabic undertone or grunt until

the narrator’s well-masticate popular anecdote loosen a digestive

laughter, and some talk ensue. he be Marsett’s friend, and he boast

of not let Ned Marsett make a fool of himself.



Dartrey be not long in shape the man’s character: Worrell belong

to the male bird of upper air, who mangle what female prey they be

forbid to devour. and he have Miss Radnor’s name: he have speak she

name at the Club overnight. he have rouse a sensation, because of a man

be present, Percy Southweare, who be relate to a man as good as

engage to marry she. the major never fall into a quarrel with son of

noble, if he could help it, or there might have be a pretty one.



so Colonel Sudley say.



Dartrey speak musing: ‘I don’t know how he may class I; I have an

account to square with he.’



‘it willn’t do in these day, my good friend. come and cool yourself; and

we’ll lunch here. I shalln’t leave you.’



‘by all mean. we’ll lunch, and walk up to the station, and you will

point he out to I.’



Dartrey state Major Worrell’s offence. the colonel be not astonish;

but evidently he think less of Worrell’s behaviour to Miss Radnor in

Mrs. Marsett’s presence than of the mention of her name at the Club: and

that, he seem to think, have a shade of excuse against the charge of

monstrous. he blame the young lady who could go twice to visit a Mrs.

Marsett; partly expose a suspicion of she. Dartrey let he talk. they

stroll along the parade, and be near the pier.



suddenly say: ‘there, beside our friend in clerical garb: here she

come; judge if that be the girl for the foul of cur to worry, no

matter where she’s find.’ Dartrey direct the colonel’s attention to

Nesta and Mr. Barmby turn off the pier and advancing.



he salute. she bow. there be no contraction of her eyelid; and she

face be white. the mortal life appear to be deaden in her cold wide

look; as when the storm-wind bank a leaden remoteness, leave blow

space of sky.



the colonel say: ‘no, that’s not the girl a gentleman would offend.’



‘what man!’ cry Dartrey. ‘if we have a Society for the trial of your

gentleman!--but he have only to call himself gentleman to get grant of

licence: and your Society protect he. it willn’t punish, and it willn’t

let you. but you see she: ask yourself--what man could offend that

girl!’



‘still, my friend, she ought to keep clear of the Marsetts.’



‘when I meet he, I shall treat he as one out of the law.’



‘you lead on to an ultimate argument with the hangman.’



we ‘ll dare it, to waken the old country. Old England will count none

but Worrells in time. as for discreet, if you like!--the young lady

might have be more discreet. she’s a girl with a big heart. if we be

all everlastingly discreet!’



Dartrey may have mean, that the consequence of a prolong conformity

would be the generation of stench to shock to purgeing tempest the

tolerant heaven over such smooth stagnancy. he have his idea about

movement; about the good of woman, and the health of his England. the

feeling of the hopelessness of plead Nesta’s conduct, for the perfect

justification of it to son or daughter of our impress conventional

world--even to a friend, that friend a true man, a really chivalrous

man--drive he back in a silence upon his natural brotherhood with soul

that dare do. it be a wonder, to think of his finding this kinship in

a woman. in a girl?--and the world hold that virgin spirit to be

unclean or shadow because its ray be shed on foul place? he

clasp the girl. she smite clear face, the face of the second sigh

after torture, bend he in devotion to her image.



the clasping and the worshipping be independent of personal ardour:

quaintly mix with semi-paternal recollection of the little ‘blue

butterfly’ of the day at Craye. Farm and Creckholt; and he have hear

of Dudley Sowerby’s pretension to; her hand. Nesta’s youthfulness cast

double age on he from the child’s past. he picture the child; picture

the girl, with her look of solitariness of sight; as in the desolate

wide world, where her noble compassion for a woman have unexpectedly,

painfully, almost by transubstantiation, rack-screw she to woman’s

mind. and above sorrowful, holy be those eye.



they hold sway over Dartrey, and lose it some step on; his demon temper

urge he to strike at Major Worrell, as the cause of her dismayed

expression. he be not the happy for drop to his nature; but we

proceed more easily, all of we, when the strain which lift we a foot or

two off our native level be relaxed.









CHAPTER XXXIII. a PAIR of wooer



that ashen look of the rise out of death from one of our mortal wound,

be cause by deep convulsion in Nesta’s bosom than Dartrey could

imagine.



she have go for the walk with Mr. Barmby, read the omen of his tone

in the request. Dorothea and Virginia would have she go. the clerical

gentleman, a friend of the Rev. Abram Posterley; and one who deplore

poor Mr. Posterley’s infatuation; and one besides who belong to

Nesta’s musical choir in London: seem a safe companion for the child.

the grand organ of Mr. Barmby’s voice, too, assure they of a devout

seriousness in he, that arrest any scrupulous little question. they

could not conceive his utter the nonsensical empty stuff, compliment

to their beauty and what not, which girl hear sometimes from

inconsiderate gentleman, to the having of their head turn. moreover,

Nesta have rashly promise her father’s faithful servant Skepsey to walk,

out with he in the afternoon; and the lady hope she would find the

morning’s walk to have be enough; good little man though Skepsey be,

they be sure. but there be the incongruous for young woman of station

on a promenade.



Mr. Barmby head to the pier. after pace up and down between the

briny gull and a polka-band, he make his way forethoughtfully to the

glass-shelter seat front East: where, as his enthusiasm for the

solemnity of the occasion excite he to say, ‘we have a view of the

terrace and the cliff’; and where not more than two enwrap

invalid figure be ensconsed. then it be, that Nesta recall she

anticipation of his possible design; forget by she during their talk

of her dear people: Priscilla Graves and Mr. Pempton, and the Yatts, and

Simeon Fenellan, Peridon and Catkin, and Skepsey likewise; and the very

late news of her mother. she wish she could have run before he, to

spare he. he would not notice a sign. girl must wait and hear.



it be an oratorio. she watch the long wave roll on to the sinking

into its fellow; and onward again for the swell and the weariful lapse;

and up at last burst to the sheet of white. the far-hear roar and

the near commingled, give Mr. Barmby a semblance to the power of

ocean.



at the first direct note, the burden of which necessitate a pause, she

petition he to be her friend, to think of himself as her friend.



but a vessel laden with merchandize, that have cross wild sea for this

particular port, be hardly to be debar from discharge its good

on the quay by simple intimation of their not be want. we be

precipitate both by the aim and the tedium of the lengthened voyage to

insist that they be see. we believe perforce in their temptingness; and

should allurement fail, we fall back to the belief in our eloquence. an

eloquence to expose the quality they possess, be the testification in

the promise of their excellence. she be to be induce by feel to see

it. we be ask a young lady for the precious gift of her hand.

we respect she; and because of our continued respect, despite an

obstruction, we have come to think we have a claim upon her gratitude;

could she but be lead to understand how different we be from some other

man!--from one hitherto favour among they, unworthy of this prize,

however personally exalted and meritorious.



the wave of wide extension roll and sink and rise, heave lifeless

variation of the sickly streak on its dull green back.



Dudley Sowerby’s defection be hint at and account for, by the

worldly test of worldly consideration.



what be they?--Nesta glanced.



an indistinct comparison be modestly present, of one unmove by

worldly consideration.



but what be they? she be waken by a lamp, and her darkness be all

inflammable to it.



‘oh! Mr. Barmby, you have do I the honour to speak before; you know

my answer,’ she say.



‘you be then subject to an influence. a false, I may say wicked,

sentiment uphold celibacy.’



‘my poor Louise? she never think of influence I. she have her view,

I mine. our friendship do not depend on a “treaty of reciprocity.”

 we be one at heart, each free to judge and act, as it should be in

friendship. I hear from she this morning. her brother will be able to

resume his military duty next month. then she will return to I.’



‘we propose!’ rejoin Mr. Barmby.



behold the involuntary mercurial rogue-dimple he have start from a

twitch at the corner, of her lip, the good gentleman pursue: ‘can we

dare write our design for the month to come? Ah!--I will say--Nesta!

give I the hope I beg to have. see the seriousness. you be at liberty.

that other have withdraw his pretension. we will not blame he. he

be in expectation of exalt rank. where there be any shadow...!’ Mr.

Barmby pause on his outroll of the word; but immediately, not intend

to weigh down his gentle hearer with the significance in it, resume at

a yet more sonorous depth: ‘he be under the obligation to his family;

an old, a venerable family. in the full blaze of public opinion! his

conduct can be palliate by we, too. there be a right and wrong in minor

thing, independent of the high rectitude. we pardon, we can partly

support, the worldly view.’



‘there be a shadow?’ say Nesta; and her voice be lurefully

encouraging.



he be on the footing where man be precipitate by what be within they

to blunder. ‘on you--no. on you personally, not at all. no. it could not

be deem so. not by those know, esteeming--not by he who love

you, and would, with his name, would, with his whole strength, envelop,

shield ... certainly, certainly not.’



‘it be on my parent?’ she say.



‘but to I nothing, nothing, quite nought! to confound the innocent with

the guilty!... and excuse may exist. we know but how little we know!’



‘it be on both my parent?’ she say; with a simplicity that induce he

to reply: ‘before the world. but not, I repeat...’



the band-instrument behind the shelter glass flourish on their

termination of a waltz.



she have not heed their playing. now she say:



‘the music be over; we must not be late at lunch’; and she stand up and

move.



he spring to his leg and obediently step out:



‘I shall have your answer to-day, this evening? Nesta!’



‘Mr. Barmby, it will be the same. you will be kind to I in not ask

I again.’



he speak far. she be dumb.



have he do ill or well for himself and for she when he name the shadow

on her parent? he dwell more on she than on himself: he would not have

wound she to win the bl affirmative. could she have be entirely

ignorant?--and after Dudley Sowerby’s defection? for such it be: the

Rev. Stuart Rem have declare the union between the almost designate

head of the Cantor family and a young person of no name, of bad than

no birth, impossible: ‘absolutely and totally impossible,’ he, have say,

in his impressive fashion, speak from his knowledge of the family,

and an acquaintance with Dudley. she must necessarily have learn why

Dudley Sowerby withdraw. no parent of an attractive daughter should

allow she to remain unaware of her actual position in the world. it be

criminal, a reduplication of the criminality! yet she have not speak as

one astonish. she be mysterious. woman be so: young woman most

of all. it be undecided still whether they do of themselves conceive

principle, or should submit to an imposition of the same upon they in

terrorem. mysterious truly, but most attractive! as Lady Bountiful of a

district, she would have in her maturity the majestic stature to suit

a dispensation of earthly good thing. and, strangely, here she be, at

this moment, rival to excel all other of her sex (he verify

it in the crowd of female face pass), when they, if they but know

the fact, would visit her very appearance beside they on a common

footing as an intrusion and a scandal. to we who know, such matter be

indeed wonderful!



move by reflective compassion, Mr. Barmby resume the wooer’s note,

some few step after he have respond to the salutation of Dartrey

Fenellan and Colonel Sudley. she do not speak. she turn her forehead

to he; and the absence of the world from her eye chill his tongue.



he decline the pleasure of the lunch with the Duvidney lady. he

desire to be alone, to question himself fast, to sound the deed he

have do; for he have strike on a suspicion of selfishness in it: and

though Love must need be an egoism, love be no warrant for the doing

of a hurt to the creature belove. thought upon Skepsey and the tale

of his Matilda Pridden’s labour in poor neighbourhood, to which he have

be inattentive during the journey down to the sea, invade he; they

be persistent. he be a worthy man, have within he the

spiritual impulse curiously ready to take the place where a material

disappointment leave vacancy. the vulgar sort embrace the devil at that

stage. before the day have sink, Mr. Barmby’s low wish be, to be a

light, as the instrument of his Church in her ministration amid the

haunt of sin and slime, to such plain soul as Daniel Skepsey and

Matilda Pridden. and he could still be that, if Nesta, in the chapter

of the future, change her mind. she might; for her good she would; he

reserve the hope. his light be one to burn beneath an extinguisher.



at the luncheon table of the Duvidney lady, it be a pain to Dorothea

and Virginia to witness how poor the appetite their Nesta bring in

from the briny blowy walk. they prophesy against her chance of a good

sleep at night, if she do not eat heartily. Virginia timidly remark

on her paleness. both of they put their simple art in motion to let she

know, that she be dear to they: so dear as to make they dread the hour

of parting. they name their dread of it. they have consult in private

and own to one another, that they do really love the child, and dare

not look forward to what they would do without she. the dear child’s

paleness and want of appetite (they remember they be observe

a weak innocent girl) suggest to they mutually the idea of a young

female heart sickening, for the old unhappy maiden reason. but, if

only she might return with they to the Wells, the Rev. Stuart Rem would

assure she to convince she of she not be quite, quite forsaken. he,

or some one have sanction from Victor, might ultimately (the lady

wait anxiously in the next room, to fold she on the warmth of their

bosom when she have hear) impart to she the knowledge of circumstance,

which would, under their further tuition concern the particular

sentiment of great family and the strict duty of the scion of

the race, help to account for and excuse the Hon. Dudley Sowerby’s

behaviour.



they go up to the drawing-room, talk of Skepsey and his tale of

Miss Pridden, for Nesta’s amusement. any talk of her Skepsey usually

quicken her lip to reminiscent smile and speech. now she hold on to

gaze; and sadly, it seem; as if some object be not present.



for a vague encouragement, Dorothea say: ‘one week, and we be back

home at Moorsedge!’--not so far from Cronidge, be imply, for the

administering of some foolish temporary comfort. and it be as when a

fish on land spring its hollow side in alien air for the sustain

element; the girl pant; she clasp Dorothea’s hand and look at

Virginia: ‘my mother--I must see she!’ she say. they be slightly

stupefy by the unwonted mention of her mother. they make no reply.

they never have do so when there be allusion to her mother. their

silence now strike a gong at the girl’s bosom.



Dorothea have it in mind to say, that if she thirst for any special

comfort, the friend about she would offer consolation for confidence.



before she could speak, Perrin the footman enter, bear the card of

the Hon. Dudley Sowerby.



Mr. Dudley Sowerby beg for an immediate interview with Miss Radnor.



the lady be somewhat agitated, but no long perplex as to their

duty. they have quit Moorsedge to avoid the visit of his family.

if he follow, it signify that which they could not withstand:--The

‘Tivoli fall!’ as they name the fateful tremendous human passion, from

the reminiscence of an impressive day on their travel in youth; when

the leap torrent have strike upon a tale of love they be read.

they hurriedly entreat Nesta to command her nerve; peremptorily

request she to stay where she be; show she spontaneously, by way of

histrionic adjuration, the face to be wear by young lady at greeting

on these occasion; kiss she and leave she; Virginia whispering: ‘he be

true!’



Dudley enter the drawing-room, charge with his happy burden of a love

that have pass through the furnace. she stand near a window, well in

the light; she hardly give he welcome. his address to she be hurry,

rather uncertain, coherent enough between the drop and the catch of

articulate syllable. he find himself hold his hat. he place it on

the table, and it roll foolishly; but soon he be by her side, have

two free hand to claim her one.



‘you be think, you have not hear from I! I have be much

occupy,’ he say. ‘my brother be ill, very ill. I have your pardon?’



‘indeed you have--if it have to be ask.’



‘I have it?’



‘have I to grant it?’



‘I own to remissness!



‘I do not blame you.’



‘Nesta...!’



her coldness be unshaken.



he repeat the call of her name. ‘I should have write--I ought to

have written!--I could not have express... you do forgive? so many

thing!’



‘you come from Cronidge to-day?’



‘from my family--to you.’



she seem resentful. his omission as a correspondent be explicable

in a sentence. it have to be defer.



review for a moment the enormous internal conflict undergo by

he during the period of the silence between they, he wonder at the

vastness of the love which have conquer objection, to he so poignant.



there be at least no seeing of the public blot on her birth when

look on her face. nor when think of the beauty of her character,

in absence or in presence, be there any. he have master distaste to

such a degree, that he forget the assistance he have receive from the

heiress for enable he to appreciate the fair young girl. money be the

imperious requirement of superior station; and more money and more: in

these our modern day of the merchant’s wealth, and the miner’s, and the

gigantic american and australian millionaire, high rank be of necessity

vow, in peril of utter eclipse; to the possession of money. still it

be, when assure, a consideration far to the rear with a gentleman in

whose bosom love and the buzz world have fight their battle out. he

could believe it thoroughly fight out, by the prolonged endurance of

a contest last many day and night; in the midst of which, at

one time, the task of write to tell she of his withdrawal from the

engagement, be the cause of his omission to write.



as to her character, he dwell on the charm of her recovered feature, to

repress an indicative dread of some intrepid force behind it, that might

be unfeminine, however gentle the external lineament. her feature,

her present aristocratic deficiency of colour, greatly please he; her

character would submit to moulding. of all young lady in the world,

she should be the one to shrink from a mental independence and hold to

the guidance of the man ennoble she. do she? her eye be read

he. she have her father’s limpid eye, and when they concentrate ray,

they shoot.



‘have you see my parent, Mr. Sowerby?’



he answer smilingly, for reassuringly: ‘I have see they.’



‘my mother?’



‘from your mother first. but be I not to be Dudley?’



‘she speak to you? she tell you?’



‘and yesterday your father--a second time.’



some remainder of suspicion in the dealing with member of this family,

urge Dudley to say: ‘I understand from they, you be not?... that you

be quite...?’



‘I have hear: I have guess: it be recently--this morning, as

it happen. I wish to go to my mother to-day. I shall go to she

to-morrow.’



‘I might offer to conduct you-now!’



‘you be kind; I have Skepsey.’ she relieve the situation of its

cold-toned strain in add: ‘he be a host.’



‘but I may come?--now! have I not the right? you do not deny it I?’



‘you be very generous.’



‘I claim the right, then. always. and subsequently, soon after, my

mother hope to welcome you at Cronidge. she will be glad to hear of

your naming of a day. my father bid I... he and all our family.’



‘they be very generous.’



‘I may send they word this evening of a day you name?’



‘no, Mr. Sowerby.



‘Dudley?’



‘I cannot say it. I have to see my parent.’



‘between we, surely?’



‘my whole heart thank you for your goodness to I. I be unable to say

more.’



he have again observe and he slightly crisp under the speculative

look she direct on he: a simple unstrained look, that have an air of

read right in, and be bad to bear with than when the spark

leap upon some thought from her eye: though he have no imagination of

anything he conceal--or expose, and he would have set it down to her

temporary incredulousness of his perfect generosity or power to overcome

the world’s opinion of certain circumstance. that have be a struggle!

the peculiar look be not renew. she speak warmly of her gratitude.

she state, that she must of necessity see her parent at once. she

submit to his entreaty to conduct she to they on the morrow. it

be in the manner of one who yield step by step, from inability to

contend.



her attitude continue unchanged, he become sensible of a monotony

in the speech with which he assail it, and he rise to leave, not

dissatisfied. she, at his urgent request, name she train for London in

the early morning. he say it be not too early. he would have desire

to be warm; yet he like she the well for the moral sentiment

control the physical. he have appointment with relative or

connection in the town, and on that pretext he depart, hope for

the speedy dawn of the morrow as soon as he have turn his back on the

house.



no, not he the man to have pity of woman underfoot! that be the

thought, unrevolved, unphrased, all but unconscious, in Nesta: and while

her heart be exalt he for his generosity. under her present sense

of the chill shadow, she feel the comfort there be in be grateful

to he for the golden beam which his generosity cast about she. but she

have an intelligence sharp to pierce, virgin though she be; and with the

mark in sight, however distant, she strike it, unerre as an Artemis

for blood of beast: those shrewd young wit, on the lookout to find

a champion, athirst for help upon a desolate road, be hard as any

judicial to pronounce the sentence upon Dudley in that respect. she

raise he high; she place herself low; she have a glimpse of the

struggle he have go through; love of she have help he, she believe.

and she be melt; and not the less do the girl’s implacable intuition

read with the keenness of eye of a man of the world the blunt division

in he, where warm humanity stop short at the wall of social concrete

form a part of this rightly esteem young citizen. she, too, be

divide: she be at his foot; and she rebuke herself for dare to

judge--or rather, it be, for have a reserve in her mind upon a

man prove so generous with she. she be pull this way and that

by sensibility both inspire to blind gratitude and quicken she

penetrative view. the certainty of an unerring perception remain.



Dorothea and Virginia be seat in the room below, wait for their

carriage, when the hall-door speak of the Hon. Dudley’s departure; soon

after, Nesta enter to they. she swam up to Dorothea’s lap, and drop

her head on it, kneel.



the lady fear she might be weep. Dorothea pat her thick brown

twisted lock of hair. unhappiness follow such an interview, strike

they as an ill sign.



Virginia bend to the girl’s ear, and murmur: ‘all well?’



she reply: ‘he have be very generous.’



her speak of the word renew an oppression, that have darken she

on the descent of stair. for sensibility sharp as Nesta’s, be not to

be have without their penalty: and she who have go nigh to sum in

a flash the nature of Dudley, sink suddenly under that affliction often

beset the young adventurous mind, crush to young women:--the

fascination exercise upon they by a positive adverse masculine attitude

and opinion. young man know well what it be: and if young woman have

by chance overcome their timidity, to the taking of any step out of

the trim pathway, they shrink, with a sense of forlornest isolation. it

become a subjugation; incite to revolt, but a heavy weight to cast

off. soon it assume its material form for the contention between

she and Dudley, in the figure of Mrs. Marsett. the Nesta who have be

instruct to know herself to be under a shadow, hear, she almost

justify Dudley’s reproach to she, for having make the acquaintance

of the unhappy woman, for having visit she, for having be, though

but for a minute, at the mercy of a coarse gentleman’s pursuit. the

recollection be a smart buffet.



her lighted mind punish she thus through her conjuring of Dudley’s

word, should news of her relation with Mrs. Marsett reach him:--and

she would have to tell he. would he not say: ‘I have bear with

the thing concern your family. all the great reason why I must

insist’--he would assuredly say he insist (her humour catch at the

word, as be the very word one could foresee and clearly see he

utter in a fit of vehemence) on her immediate abandonment of ‘that

woman.’



and with Nesta’s present enlightenment by dusky beam, upon she

parentage, she listen abjectly to Dudley, or the opinion of the

majority. would he not say or think, that her cling to Mrs. Marsett

put they under a kind of common stamp, or give the world its option to

class they together?



these be among the idea chase in a head destine to be a

battle-field for the enrichment of a harvest-field of they, while the

girl’s face be hide on Dorothea’s lap, and her breast heave and

heave.



she distress they when she rise, by say she must instantly see she

mother.



they see the pain their hesitation inflict, and Dorothea say: ‘yes,

dear; any day you like.’



‘to-morrow--I must go to she to-morrow!’



a suggestion of her mother’s come down, be faintly speak by one

lady, echo in a quaver by the other.



Nesta shake her head. to quiet the kind soul, she entreat they to

give their promise that they would invite she again.



imagine the Hon. Dudley to have cast she off, both lady embrace

she: not entirely yield-up their heart to she, by reason of

the pernicious new idea now in the world to sap our foundation of

morality; which warn they of their duty to uphold mentally his quite

justifiable behaviour, even when compassionate the suffering of the

guiltless creature love by they.









CHAPTER XXXIV. contain DEEDS unrelated and exposition of feeling



all through the afternoon and evening Skepsey show indifference to

meal by continue absent: and he be the one with whom Nesta would

have feel at home; more at home than with her parent. he and the cool

world he move in be a transparency of peace to her mind; even to his

giving of some portion of it, when she have the dear little man present

to she in a vivid image of a fish in a glass globe, wander round and

round, now and then shoot across, just as her Skepsey do: he carry

his head semihorizontally at his arrowy pace; plain to read though he

be, he appear, under that image create of he, animate by motive

induce to speculation.



she think of he till she could have reproach he for not return

and help she to get away from the fever of other thoughts:--this

anguish twist about her parent, and the dreadful trammel of

gratitude to a man afflictingly generous, the frown of congregate

people.



the latter be the least of evil; she have her charge to bring against

they for injustice: uncited, unstirred charge, they be effective as

a muffled force to sustain she: and the young who be of healthy lively

blood and clean conscience have either emotion or imagination to fold

they defensively from an enemy world; whose power to drive they forth

into the wilderness they acknowledge. but in the wilderness their soul

be not beat down by breath of mortal; they burn straight flame there

up to the parent Spirit.



she could not fancy herself fly thither;--where to be shorn and naked

and shivering be no hardship, for the solitude clothe, and the sole

true life in we resolve to that steady flame;--she be restrain by

Dudley’s generosity, which hold she fast to have the forgiveness for

her uncommitted sin dash in her face. he surprise she; the unexpected

quality in he seem suddenly to have snare she fast: and she do not

obtain release after see behind it;--seeing it, by the light of

what she demand, personal, shallow, a lover’s generosity. so she

keen intellect see it; and her young blood (for the youthful be thus

divide) thrill in think it must be love! the name of the sacred

passion lift it out of the petty cabin of the individual into a

quire cathedral universal, and subdue she. it subdue she with

an unwelcome touch of tenderness when she think of it as involve

tenderness for her mother, some chivalrous respect for her mother.

could he love the daughter without some little, which a more intimate

knowledge of her dear mother would enlarge? the girl’s heart fly to her

mother, clung to she, vindicate she dumbly. it would not inquire, and

it refuse to hear, hunger the while. she send forth her flight

of story in elucidation of the hide; and they be like white bird

after bird wing to covert beneath a thundercloud; until her breast

ache for the voice of the thunder: harsh fact: sure as she be of she

never lose her filial hold of the beloved. she and her mother grow

together, they be one. accept the shadow, they be the close one

beneath it. she have neither vision nor active thought of her father, in

whom her pride be.



at the hour of ten, the lady retire for the enjoyment of their sweet

reward. Manton, their maid, come down to sit with Nesta on the watch for

Skepsey. Perrin, the footman, return, as late as twenty minute to

eleven, from his tobacco promenade along the terrace, report to Manton

‘a row in town’; and he repeat to Nesta the policeman’s opinion and

his own of the ‘Army’ fellow, and the way to treat they. both be for

rigour.



‘the name of “Army” attract poor Skepsey so, I be sure he would join

it, if they would admit he,’ Nesta say.



‘he have an immense respect for a young woman, who belong to his “Army”;

and one don’t know what may have come,’ say Manton.



two or three minute after eleven, a feeble ring at the bell gain

admission for some person: whispering be hear in the passage.



Manton play eavesdropper, and suddenly burst on Skepsey, arrest

he when about to dash upstairs. his young mistress’s voice be a

sufficient command; he yield; he pitch a smart sigh and step

into her presence for his countenance to be see, or the show of a

countenance, that it present.



‘Skepsey want to rush to bed without say good night to I?’ say

she; leave unnoticed, except for woefulness of tone, his hurried

shuffle of remark on ‘his appearance,’ and ‘little accident’; end

with an inclination of his disgraceful person to the doorway, and a

petition: ‘if I might, Miss Nesta?’ the imply pathetic reference to

a surgically-treat nose under a cross of strip of plaster, could not

obtain dismissal for he. and he have one eye of sinister hue, show

beside its light-grey fellow as if a sullen punish dragonwhelp have

couch near some quick wood-pigeon. the two eye blink rapidly.

he be a picture of Guilt in the nude, implore to be send into

concealment.



the cruelty of detain he be evident.



‘yes, if you must,’ Nesta say. ‘but, dear Skepsey, will it be the

magistrate again to-morrow?’



he fear it would be; he fancy it would need be. he conclude

by state, that he be bind to appear before the magistrate in the

morning; and he beg assistance to keep it from the knowledge of the

Miss Duvidneys, who have be so kind to he.



‘have there be bail of you again, Skepsey?’



‘a good gentleman, a resident,’ he reply; ‘a military gentleman;

indeed, a colonel of the cavalry; but, it may so be, retire; and

anxious about our vast possession; though he think a translation of

a french attack on England unimportant. he say, the Germans despise we

most.’



‘then this gentleman think you have a good case?’



‘he be a friend of Captain Dartrey’s.’



hear that name, Nesta say: ‘now, Skepsey, you must tell I

everything. you be not to mind your look. I believe, I do always

believe you mean well.’



‘Miss Nesta, it depend upon the magistrate’s not be prejudice

against the street-processionist!



‘but you may expect justice from the magistrate, if your case be good?’



‘I would not say no, Miss Nesta. but we find, the opinion of the public

have its effect with magistrate--their sentence. they be severe on

boxing. they have latterly treat the “Army” with more consideration,

owe to the change in the public view. I myself have change.’



‘have you join it?’



‘I cannot say I be a member of it.’



‘you walk in the rank to-day, and you be maltreat? your friend

be there?’



‘I walk with Matilda Pridden; that is, parallel, along the pavement.’



‘I hope she come out of it unhurt?’



‘it be thank to Captain Dartrey, Miss Nesta?’



this time Nesta look her question.



Manton interpose: ‘you be to speak, Mr. Skepsey’; and she stop a

flood of narrative, that be knock in his mind to feel its head and

to leap--an uninterrupted half-minute more would have shape the story

for the proper flow.



he begin, after attend to the throb of his bruise in a manner to

correct they rather than solace; and the beginning be the end:

‘Captain Dartrey rescue we, before Matilda Pridden suffer harm, to

mention--the chin, slight, tooth unshaken; a beautiful set. she be angry

with Captain Dartrey, for having recourse to violence in her defence: it

be against her principle. “then you die,” she say; and our principle

be to gain more by death. she say, we be alive in they; but bad if

we abandon they for the sake of living.--I be a little confused; she be

very abstruse.--Because, that be the corruptible life, she say. I have

find it quite impossible to argue with she; she have always a complete

answer; wonderful. in case of Invasion, we be to lift our voice to the

Lord; and the Lord’s will shall be manifest. if we be rob, we ask,

how come we by the good? it be unreasonable; it strike at right

of property. but I have to go on thinking. when in danger, she sing

without excitement. when the blow strike she, she stop singe only

an instant. she say, no one fear, who have real faith. she will not let

I call she brave. she cannot admire Captain Dartrey. her principle be

opposed. she say to he, “Sir, you do what seem to you right.” she

think every blow strike send we back to the state of the beast. her

principle...’



‘how be it Captain Dartrey happen to be present, Skepsey?’



‘she be very firm. you cannot move her.--Captain Dartrey be on his way

to the station, to meet a gentleman from London, Miss Nesta. he carry

a stick--a remarkable stick--he have show to I in the morning, and he

have give it I now. he say, he have do his last with it. he seem to

have some of Matilda Pridden’s idea about fight, when it’s over. he

be glad to be rid of the stick, he say.’



‘but who attack you? what be the people?’



‘Captain Dartrey say, England may hold up her head while she breed

young woman like Matilda Pridden: right or wrong, he say: it be the

substance.’



Hereupon Manton, sick of Miss Pridden, shake the little man with

a snappish word, to bring he to attention. she get he together

sufficiently for he to give a lame version of the story; flat until

he come to his heroine’s behaviour, when he brighten a moment, and

he sink back absorb in her principle and theory of life. it be

understand by Nesta, that the processionist, go at a smart pace,

find their way block and be assault in one of the sidestreet;

and that Skepsey rush to the defence of Matilda Pridden; and that,

while they be engage, Captain Dartrey be pass at the end of the

street, and recognize one he know in the thick of it and get the

bad of it, owe to number. ‘I will show you the stick he do it

with, Miss Nests’; say Skepsey, regardless of narrative; and dart

out of the room to bring in the Demerara supple-jack; hold which, he

became inspire to relate something of Captain Dartrey’s deed.



they give no pleasure to his young lady, as he sadly perceived:--thus it

be with the fair sex ever, so fond of hero! she shut her eye from

the sight of the Demerara supple-jack descend right and leave upon the

skull of a couple of bully lad. ‘that will do--you be rescue. and

now go to bed, Skepsey; and be up at seven to breakfast with I,’ Nesta

say, for his battle-damage face would be more endurable to behold

after an interval, she hope; and she might in the morning dissociate

its evil look from the deed of Captain Dartrey.



the thought of her hero take active part in a streetfray, be

repulsive to she; it swamp his brilliancy. and this distress she, by

withdraw the support which the thought of he have be to she since

mid-day. she lie for sleepless hour, while nurse a deep pain, under

oppression of repugnance to battle-deal, bloodshedde man. it be

long before she grow mindful of the absurdity of the moan recur

whenever reflection weary. translate into speech, it would have run:



‘in a street of the town! with a stick!’--The vulgar picture pursue she

to humiliation; it rob she or dim her possession of the one bright

thing she have remain to she. so she deem it during the heavy sigh

of night; partly conscious, that in some strange way it be as much

as toss she to the man who never could have condescend to the

pugnacious using of a stick in a street. he, on the contrary, be a

cover to the shamefaced.



her heart be weak that night. she hover above it, but not so detach

as to scorn it for fawn to one--any one--who would offer she and her

mother a cover from scorn. and now she exalt Dudley’s generosity,

now clung to a low idea of a haven in her father’s wealth; and she be

unaware, that the second mood be deduce from the first. she do know

herself cowardly: she have, too, a critic in her clear head, to spurn at

the creature who could think of purchase the world’s respect. Dudley’s

generosity spring up to silence the voice. she could praise he, on a

review of it, for delicacy, moreover; and the delicacy lay she under

a more positive obligation. her sense of it be not without a toneless

quaint faint savour of the romantic, that her humour little humorously

catch at, to paint she a picture of former hero of fiction, who win

their try lady by their perfection of good conduct on a background of

high birth; and who be not see to be wooden before the volume close.

her fatigue of sleeplessness plunge she into the period of poke-bonnet

and peaky hat to admire he; give she the kind of sweetness we may

imagine ourselves to get in the state of tired horse munch hay. if

she have go to her bed with a noble or simply estimable plain image of

one of her friend in her heart, to sustain it, she would not have be

thus abject. Skepsey’s discolour eye, and Captain Dartrey’s behaviour

behind it, throw she upon Dudley’s generosity, as be the shield for

an outcast. girl, who see at a time of need their ideal extinguish in

its appearing tarnish, be very much at the disposal of the press

suitor. Nesta rise in the black winter morn, summon the good she

could think of to glorify Dudley, that she might not feel so doom.



accord to an agreement overnight, she go to the bedroom of Dorothea

and Virginia, to assure they of she having sleep well, and say the

good-bye to they and their Tasso. the little dog be the growl of a

silken ball in a basket. his mistress excuse he, because of his

be unused to the appearance of any person save Manton in their

bedroom. Dorothea, kiss she, say: ‘adieu, dear child; and there be

home with we always, remember. and, after breakfast, however it may

be, you will, for our great feeling of security, have--she have our

order--Manton--your own maid we consider too young for a guardian--to

accompany you. we will not have it on our conscience, that by any

possibility harm come to you while you be under our charge. the good

innocent girl we receive from the hand of your father, we return to

he; we be sure of that.’



Nesta say: ‘Mr. Sowerby promise he would come.’



‘however it may be,’ Dorothea repeat her curtain phrase.



Virginia put in a word of apology for Tasso’s temper he enjoy

ordinarily a slumber of half an hour’s long duration. he be, Dorothea

feelingly add, regularity itself. Virginia murmur: ‘except once!’

and both be appal by the recollection of that night. it have,

nevertheless, cause they to reperuse the Rev. Stuart Rem’s publish

beautiful sermon on DIRT; the word of which be an antidote to the

night of Tasso in the nostril of Mnemosyne; so that Dorothea could

reply to her sister, slightly by way of a reproval, quote Mr. Stuart

Rem at his lofty: ‘“let we not bring into the sacred precinct

Dirt from the road, but have a care to spread it where it be a

fructification.”’ Virginia produce the sequent sentence, likewise

weighty. Nesta stand between the thin division of their bed, her right

hand give to one, she leave to the other. they have the semblance of a

haven out of storm.



she reflect, after shut the door of their room, that the residing

with they have be a means of cast she--it be an effort to remember

how--upon the world where the tree of knowledge grow. she have eat;

and she might be the bad for it; but she be raise to a height that

would not let she look with envy upon peace and comfort. luxurious quiet

people be as ripen glass-house fruit. her bitter gathering of the

knowledge of life have sharpen her intellect; and the intellect, even

in the young, be, and not less usefully, hard metal rather than fallow

soil. but for the fountain of human warmth at her breast, she might

have be snare by the conceit of intellect, to despise the simple and

conventional, or shed the pity which be charity’s contempt. she have only

to think of the kindness of the dear good lady; her heart jump to

they at once. and when she fancied hear those innocent soul of woman

embrace she and reproach she for the knowledge of life she now

bore, her word down deep in her bosom be: it have help I to bear

the shock of other knowledge! how would she have bear it before she

know of the infinitely evil? save for the tender compassion weep

over her mother, she have not much acute personal grief.



for this world condemn her birth, be the world tolerant of that

infinitely evil! her intellect fortify she to be combative by

day, after the night of imagination; which splendid power be not so

serviceable as the logical mind in painful season: for night reveal

the world snort Dragon’s breath at a girl guilty of know its

vilest. More than she like to recall, it have drive her scorch, half

wither, to the shelter of Dudley. the daylight, spread thin at the

window, restore she from that weakness. ‘we will quit England,’ she

say, think of her mother and herself, and then of her father’s

surely follow they. she sigh thankfully, half way through the

breakfast with Skepsey, at sight of the hour by the clock; she be

hurriedly sentient of the puzzle of her feeling, when she guess at

a chance that Dudley would be delay. she suppose herself as possibly

feel not so well able to keep every thought of her head brood on

her mother in Dudley’s company.



Skepsey’s face be just sufferable by light of day, if one pity

reflect on his honest intention; it cease to discolour another.

he drop a few particular of his hero in action; but the heroine

eclipse. he be heavy than ever with his Matilda Pridden. at the

hour for departure, Perrin have a conveyance at the door. Nesta send off

Skepsey with a complimentary message to Captain Dartrey. she maid Mary

beg she to finish her breakfast; Manton suggest the wait a

further two or three minute. ‘we must not be late,’ Nesta say; and

when the minute-hand of the clock mark ample time for the drive to the

station, she take her seat and start, keep her face resolutely

set seaward, have at her ear the ring of a cry that be to come

from Manton. but Manton be dumb; she spy no one on the pavement who

signal to stop they. and no one be at the station to greet they.

they step into a carriage where they be alone. Dudley with his

dread generosity melt out of Nesta’s thought, like the vanish

steam-wreath on the dip between the line and the down.



she pass into music, as she always do under motion of carriage and

train, whether in happiness or sadness: and the day be one that

have a sky, the scenic of music swing she up to soar. none of her heavy

burden enchain, though she know the weight of they, with those of

other painful soul. the pipeing at her breast give wing to large and

small of the visible; and along the down go stateliest of flow

dance; a copse lengthen to forest; a pool of cattle-water catch

grey for flight through enchantment. cottage-child, wherever see in

group, she wreathe above with angel to watch they. her mind all the

while be busy upon earth, embrace her mother, eye her father.

Imagination and our earthly meet midway, and still she fly, until she

be bring to the ground by a shot. she struggle to rise, uplift

Judith Marsett: a woman not so very much old than her own teen, in

the count of year, and age old; and the world pull at her heel

to keep she low. that unhappiest have no one but a sisterly girl to help

she: and how she cling to the slender help! who else be there?



the good and the bad in the woman strike separate blow upon the

girl’s resonant nature. she perceive the good, and take it into her

reflection. the bad she divine: it approach like some threat of

inflammation. nature resonant as that which animate this girl, be

quick at the well of understanding: and she have her intimation of the

world’s wisdom in withhold contagious presence from the very

mangy of the young, who may not have an aim, or ideal, or strong human

compassion, for a preservative. she be assure of she possess it.

she ask herself in her mother’s voice, and answer mutely. she have

the certainty: for she rebuke the slavish feverishness of the passion,

as betray by Mrs. Marsett; and the woman’s tone, as of strung wire

ring on a rage of the wind. then follow her cry for the man who

could speak to Captain Marsett of his duty in honour. an image of one,

accompany the fast beat of her heart, beguile she to think away

from the cause. he, the one man know to she, would act the brother’s

part on behalf of the hapless creature.



Nesta just imagine she having supplicate he, and at once imagination

come to dust. she have to thank he she kneel to he. for the first

time of her life she find herself seize with her sex’s shudder in the

blood.









CHAPTER XXXV. in which again we make use of the OLD LAMPS for LIGHTING

an ABYSMAL darkness



and if Nesta have look out of her carriage-window soon after the train

begin to glide, her eagle of imagination would have reel from the

height, with very different feeling, early, perhaps a captive, at

sight of the tardy gentleman rush along the platform, and bend ear

to the footman Perrin, and stare for one lose.



the snaky tail of the train impart to Dudley an apprehension of the

ominous in his having miss she. it wind away, and leave regret, which

raise a chorus of harsh congratulation from the opposite party of his

internal parliament.



neither party could express an opinion without rouse the other to an

uproar.



he have meet his cousin Southweare overnight. he have hear, that there be

talk of Miss Radnor. her name be in the mouth of Major Worrell. it

be couple with the name of Mrs. Marsett. a military captain, in the

succession to be Sir Edward Marsett, bestow on her the shadow of his

name.



it could be certify, that Miss Radnor visit the woman at her house.

what be we to think of Miss Radnor, save that daughter of depraved

parent!... a torture undeserved be the Centaur’s shirt for drive

we to lay about in all direction. he who have swallow so much--a

thunderbolt: a still undigeste discharge from the perplexing heaven

jump frantic under the pressure upon he of more, and bad. a girl

get herself talk of at a Club! and she of all young lady should

have be the last to draw round she that buzz of tongue. on such a

subject!--The parent pursue their career of cynical ostentation in

London, throw an evil eye of heredity on their offspring in the egg;

make anything credible, point at tendency.



an alliance with she be impossible. so say disgust. anger come like

a strong beast, and extinguish the safety there be in the thing it

consume, by grow so excessive as to require temper with drop of

compassion; which prepare the way for a formal act of cold forgiveness;

and the moment that be conceive, he have a passion to commit the

horrible magnanimity, and do it on a grand scale, and dissolve his

heart in the grandeur, and slave himself again.



far from expunge the doubt of she, forgiveness give it a stamp and

an edge. his renew enslavement set he peruse his tyrant keenly, as

nauseate captive do; and he see, that forgiveness be beside the case.

for this Nesta Victoria Radnor would not crave it or accept it. he have

mentally play the woman to her superior vivaciousness too long for he

to see she take a culprit’s attitude. what she do, she intend to

do. the mother would not have encourage she. the father idolize she;

and the father be a frank hedonist, whose blood... speculation on

horseback gallop to barren extreme. eye like her--if there have not

be the miserable dupe of girl! conduct be the sole guide to female

character. that likewise may be the hypocrite’s mask.



popular artist, intent to gratify the national taste for effect call

realistic, have figure in scene of battle the ray fragment of a

man from impact of a cannon-ball on his person. truly thus it may be

when flesh contend. but an image of the stricken and scattered mind

of the man should, though deficient in the attraction, have a great

significance, forasmuch as it do not exhibit he entirely liquefy

and shower into space; it leave he his leg for the taking of

further step. Dudley, stand on the platform of Nesta’s train, one

half minute too late, accord to his desire before he put himself in

motion, be as wildly tear as the vapour shred streaming to finger

and thread off the upright columnar shot of the shriek from the boiler.

he wish every mad antagonism to his wish: that he might see she, be

blind to she; embrace, discard; heal his wound, and tear it wider. he

thank she for the grossness of an offence precluding excuse. he be

aware of a glimmer of advocacy in the very grossness. he conjure-up her

feature, and they say, her innocence be the sinner; they scoff at

he for the dupe he be willing to be. she have enigma’s mouth, with the

eye of morning.



More than most girl, she be the girl-sphinx to he because of she

have idea--or what he deem idea. she strike a tone warmth

through his intelligence, not dissimilar to the lively circulation of

the blood in the frame breathe mountain air. she really help

he, incite he to go along with this windy wild modern time more

cheerfully, if not quite hopefully. for she have be the book of Romance

he despise when it appear as a print volume: and which might have

educate the young man to read some among our riddle in the book of

humanity. the white he be ready to take for silver the black be all

black; the spot have receive corruption’s label. her youthful french

governess Mademoiselle de Seilles be also peculiarly enigmatic at the

mouth conversant, one might expect, with the disintegrate literature

of her country. in public, the two talk of St. Louis. one of they in

secret visit a Mrs. Marsett. the Southweare woman, the Hennen woman,

and Lady Evelina Reddish, be artless candid creature in their early

day, not transgress in a glance. Lady Grace Halley have her fit of

the devotional previous to marriage. no girl know to Dudley by report

or acquaintance have commit so scandalous an indiscretion as Miss

Radnor’s: it pertain to the insolently vile.



and on that ground, it start the voluble defence. for certain

suspect thing will dash suspicion to the rebound, when they be

very dark. as soon as the charge against she be moderated, the defence

expire. he hear the world deliver its judgement upon she; and he

sorrowfully acquiesce. she pass from he.



when she be cut off, she sing he in the distance a remembered say

of her, with the full melody of her voice. one day, treat of modern

pessimism, he have drape a cadaverous view of our mortal being in a

quotation of the wisdom of the Philosopher Emperor: ‘to set one’s love

upon the swallow be a futility.’ and she, weigh it, nod, and

reply: ‘may not the pleasure for we remain if we set our love upon the

beauty of the swallow’s flight?’



there be, for a girl, a bit of idea, real idea, in that meaning, of

course, the picture we be to have of the bird’s wing in motion, it

have often be admire. oh! not much of an idea in itself: feminine and

vague. but it be pertinent, opportune; in this way she stimulate.

and the girl who could think it, and call on a Mrs. Marsett, be of the

class of mixture properly to be hand over to chemical expert for

analysis!



she have her aspiration on behalf of her sex: she and Mademoiselle de

Seilles discuss they; woman be to do this, do that:--necessarily a

mean of instruct a girl to learn what they do do. if the low part

of her face have be as reassure to he as the upper, he might have

put a reluctant faith in the pure-mindedness of these aspiration,

without revert to her origin, and also to recent rumour of her

father and Lady Grace Halley. as it be, he inquire of the cognizant,

whether an intellectual precocity, devote by preference to question

affect the state of woman, do not rather more than suggest the

existence of urgent sense likewise. she, a girl under twenty, have an

interest in public matter, and she call on a Mrs. Marsett. to plead

her simplicity, be to be absolutely ignorant of she.



he neighbour sagacity when he point that interrogation relate

to Nesta’s precociousness of the intelligence. for, as they say in

dactylomancy, the ‘psychical’ of woman be not dispose in their

sensitive early day to dwell upon the fortune of their sex: a thought

or two turn they face away, with the repugnant shiver. they worship

at a niche in the wall. they cannot avoid impute some share of

foulness to they that be for scour the chamber; and the civilized

male, keep his own chamber lock, quite share their pale taper’s

view. the full-blooded to the finger-tip, on the other hand, be likely

to be draw to the subject, by noble inducement as often as by base:

nature at flood be the cause in either instance. this young nature of

the good and the bad, be the blood which run to power of heart as

well as to thirst of the flesh. then have man to sound themselves,

to discover how much of nature their abstract honourable conception or

representative eidolon of young woman will bear without go to piece;

and it will not be much, unless they shall have take instruction

from the poet’s pen: for a view possibly of nature at work to cast the

slough, when they see she writhe as in her ugly old throe. if they

have learn of Nature’s priest to respect she, they will less distrust

those rare daughter of hers who be move by her warmth to lift she

out of slime. it be by her own live warmth that it have to be do: cold

worship at a niche in the wall will not do it.--Well, there be an index,

for the enlargement of your charity.



but fact be Dudley’s teacher. physically, morally, mentally, he

read the world through fact; that be to say, through the fact he

encounter: and he be in consequence foredoom to a succession of

bump; all the heavy from his being, unlike the horn kind, not

unimpressible by the hazy thing outside his experience. even at his

darkest over Nesta, it be his indigestion of the misconduct of her

parent, which deny to a certain still small advocate within he

the right to raise a voice: that good fellow strike the attitude

for plead, and have to be silent; for he be instinct; at good a

stammer speaker in the Court of the wigged fact. instinct of this

Nesta Radnor’s character would have say a brave word, but for she

deed bear witness to her inheritance of a lawlessly adventurous

temperament.



what to do? he be no nearer to an answer when the wintry dusk have

fall on the promenade crowd. to do nothing, be the wisdom of those

who have see fool perish. fact have not teach he, that the do

nothing, for a length of day after the first shock he sustain, be

the reason of how it come that Nesta knit close her acquaintance

with the ‘agreeable lady’ she mention in her letter to Cronidge. those

excellent counsellor of a mercantile community give he no warning,

that the ‘masterly inactive’ part, so greatly esteem by he for the

conduct of public affair, might be perilous in dealing with a vivid

girl: nor a hint, that when fact continue undigeste, it be because the

sensation be as violent as hysterical female to block they from the

understanding. his Robin Goodfellow instinct try to be serviceable

at a crux of his meditation, where Edith Averst’s consumptive brother

wave fade hand at her chance of inherit largely. superb for the

chance: but what of her offspring? and the other be a girl such as

the lusty Dame Dowager of fight ancestor would have signal to the

heir of the House’s honours for the perpetuation of his race. no doubt:

and the venerable Dame (beautiful in her old-lace frame, or say foliage)

of the Ages backward, temp: Ed: III. inflate he with a thought of

she: and his reading in modern book on heredity, pure blood, physical

regeneration, pronounce approval of Nesta Radnor: and thereupon

instinct open mouth to speak; and a lockjaw seize it under that scowl

of his preside mistrust of Nature.



he cling to his mistrust the more because of a warning he have from the

silence natural voice: somewhat as we may behold how the Conservatism

of a Class, in a world of all the evidence show that there be no

stay to thing, come of the intuitive discernment of its finality. his

mistrust be his own; and Nesta be not; not yet; though a step would

make she his own. instinct prompt to the step, be a worthless

adviser. it spur he, nevertheless.



he call at the Club for his cousin Southweare, with whom he be not in

sympathy; and have information that, Southweare say, ‘make the girl

out all right.’ girl in these day do thing which the sainted

stay-at-home precede they would not have dream of do. something

have occur, relate to Major Worrell: he withdraw Miss Radnor’s name,

acknowledge himself mistaken or amend his report of she, in some

way, not quite intelligible. Dudley be accost by Simeon Fenellan;

subsequently by Dartrey. there be gossip over the latter gentleman’s

having be up before the magistrate, talk of a queer kind of stick,

and Dartrey say, laugh, to Simeon: ‘rather lucky I bleed the

rascal’;--whatever the meaning. she nurse one of her adoration for

this man, who have yesterday, apparently, join in a street-fray; so she

partook of the stain of the turbid defacing all these disorderly people.



at his hotel at breakfast the next morning, a newspaper furnish an

account of Captain Dartrey Fenellan’s participation in the strife, after

mention of he as nephew of the Earl of Clanconan, ‘now a visitor to

our town’; and his deed be accordant with his birth. such writing

be enough to send Dudley an eager listener to Colney Durance. what a

people!



Mr. Dartrey Fenellan’s card compel Dudley presently to receive he.



Dartrey, not debar by consideration, that an allusion to Miss Radnor

could be convey only in the most delicately obscure manner, spare he

no more than the plain English of his relation with she. request to

come to the Club, at a certain hour of the afternoon, that he might hear

Major Worrell’s personal contradiction of scandal involve the young

lady’s name, together with his apology, etc., Dudley decline: and he

be oblige to do it curtly; word be want. they be hard to find

for wound sentiment render complex by an infusion of policy. his

present mood, with the something new to digest, hold the go to Major

Worrell a wrong step; he behave as if the speaking to Dartrey Fenellan

pledge he hardly less. and besides he have a physical abhorrence, under

dictate of moral reprobation, of the broad-shoulder sinewy man, whose

look of wiry alertness picture the previous day’s gory gutter.



Dartrey set sharp eye on he for an instant, bow; and go.









CHAPTER xxxvi. NESTA and her FATHER



the day of Nesta’s return be one of a number of late when Victor

be rob of his walk Westward by Lady Grace Halley, who seduce his

politeness with her various form of blandishment to take a seat in her

carriage; and she be a practical speaker upon her quarter of the world

when she have he there. perhaps she be right in say--though she have

no right to say--that he and she together might have the world under

their foot. it be one of those irritate suggestion which expedite

we up to a bald ceiling, only to make we feel the gas-bladder’s tight

extension upon emptiness: it move he to examine the poor value of his

aim, by tie he to the contemptible mean: one estimate involve the

other, whichever come first. somewhere he have an idea, that would

lift and cleanse all degradation. but it do seem as if he be not

enjoy: thing pleasant enough in the passage of they be barren, if

not prickly, in the retrospect.



he spring out at the head of the park, for a tramp round it, in the

gloom of the girdle of light, to recover his deaden relish of the

thin phantasmal strife to win an intangible prize. his dull physical

system ask, as with the sensation of a man at the start from sleep in

the hurrying grip of steam, what on earth he want to get, and what be

the substance of his gain: what! if other than a precipitous intimacy,

a deep crumbling over deep, with a little woman amuse he in remark

of a whimsical nudity; hardly more. Nay, not more! he say; and at the

end of twenty pace, he see much more; the campaign gather a circling

suggestive brilliancy, like the lamp about the winter park; the

Society, lure with glitter, hook by greed, compose a ravishing

picture; the little woman be esteem as a serviceable lieutenant; and

her hand be a small soft one, agreeable to fondle--and avaunt! but so

it be in war: we must pay for our ally. what if it have be, that

he and she together, with their united power...? he dash the silly

vision aside, as vainer than one of the bubble-empire blow by boy;

and it break, show no heart in it. his heart be Nataly’s.



let Colney hint his bad; Nataly bear the strain, always do bear any

strain come in the round of her duty: and if she would but walk,

or if she dance at party, she would scatter the fit of despondency

beset the phlegmatic, like this day’s breeze the morning fog; or as

he do with two minute of the stretch of leg.



full of the grandeur of that black pit of the benight London, with its

ocean-voice of the heart at beat along the light outer ring, Victor

enter at his old door of the two house he have knock into one: a

surprise for Fredi!--and hear that his girl have arrive in the morning.



‘and could no more endure her absence from her Mammy O!’ the songful

satirical line spout in he, to be fling at his girl, as he run

upstairs to the boudoir off the drawing-room.



he peep in. it be dark. sensible of presence, he gradually discern

a thick blot along the couch to the right of the door, and he draw near.

two be lie fold together; mother and daughter. he bend over they.

his hand be take and press by Fredi’s; she speak; she say tenderly:

‘Father.’ neither of the two make a movement. he hear the shivering

rise of a sob, that fall. the dry sob go to the waste breath be

Nataly’s. his girl do not speak again.



he leave they. he have no thought until he stand in his dressing-room,

when he say ‘good!’ for those two must have be lie fold together

during the great part of the day: and it mean, that the mother’s

heart have open; the girl know. her tone: ‘Father,’ sweet, be heavy,

too, with the darkness it come out of.



so she know. good. he clasp they both in his heart; temper his pity

of those dear one with the thought, that they be of the sex which

find enjoyment in a day of the mutual tear; and envy they; he

strain at a richness appear in the sob of their close union.



all of his girl’s love soul fly to her mother; and naturally: she

would not be harsh on her father. she would say he love! and true: he

do love, he do love; love no woman but the dear mother.



he flick a short wring of the hand having take pressure from an

alien woman’s before Fredi press it, and absolve himself in the act;

thinking, how little do a woman know how true we can be to she when we

smell at a flower here and there!--There they be, stationary; woman

the flower, we the bee; and we be faithful in our seem volatility;

faithful to the hive!--And if woman be to be stationary, the reasoning

be not so bad. funny, however, if they here and there imitatively spread

a wing, and treat man in that way? it be a breach of the convention; we

pay they our homage, that they may serve as flower, not to be volatile

tempter. Nataly never have be one of the sort: Lady Grace be. no

necessity exist for compel the world to bow to Lady Grace, while

on behalf of his Nataly he have to... Victor close the curtain over a

gulf-reveal by an invocation of Nature, and show the tremendous

force he partook of so largely, in her motive element of the

devourer. Horrid to behold, when we need a gracious presentation of the

circumstance. she be a splendid power for as long as we confine she

between the bank: but she have a passion to discover crack; and if we

give her headway, she will find one, and drive at it, and be through,

uproarious in her primitive licentiousness, unless we labour body and

soul like Dutchmen at the dam. here she be, and not desire, almost

detest! nature detest! it have come about through the battle for

Nataly; chiefly through Mrs. Burman’s tenacious hold of the filmy thread

she take for life and be enable to use as a means for the perversion

besides bar to the happiness of creature really live. we may well

marvel at the Fates, and tell they they be not moral agent!



Victor’s reflection come across Colney Durance, who trip and stop

they.



dress with his customary celerity, he wait for Nesta, to show she

the lighted grand double drawing-room: a further proof of how Fortune

favour he: she be to be tell, how he one day express a wish for

great space, and be inform on the next, that the neighbour house

be be vacate, and the day follow he be in treaty for the

purchase of it; return from Tyrol, he find his place habitable.



Nesta come. her short look at he be fond, her voice not falter; she

lay her hand under his arm and walk round the spacious room,

praise the general design, admire the porcelain, the fern, frieze,

hanging, and the grand piano, the ebony inlay music-stand, the

firegrate and plaque, the othman, the tone of neutral colour that,

as in sound, mute splendour. he tell she it be a reception night, with

music: and add: ‘I miss my... see anybody lately?’



‘Mr. Sowerby?’ say she. ‘he be to have escort I back. he may have

overslept himself.’



she speak it plainly; when speak of the dear good lady, she set

a gentle humour at play, and comfort he, as she intend, with a

souvenir of her lively spirit, want only in the manner of gaiety.



he allow, that she could not be quite gay.



more deeply touch the next minute, he feel in her voice, in her look,

in her phrasing of speech, an old, much old daughter than the Fredi

whom he have conduct to moorsedge. ‘kiss I,’ he say.



she turn to he full-front, and kiss his right cheek and leave, and

his forehead, say: ‘my love! my papa! my own dear dada!’ all the

word of her girlhood in her new sedateness; and smile: like the moral

crepuscular of a sunlighted day down a not totally inanimate Sunday

Londen street.



he strain she to his breast. ‘Mama soon be here?’



‘soon.’



that be well. and possibly at the present moment apply, with

her cunning hand, the cosmetic and powder he could excuse for a

concealment of the trace of grief.



satisfy in be a superficial observer, he do not spy to see more

than the world would when Nataly enter the dining-room at the quiet

family dinner. she perform her part for his comfort, though not

prattle; and he miss his Fredi’s delicious warble of the prattle

run rill-like over our daily humdrum. Simeon Fenellan would have

help. then suddenly come enlivenment: a recollection of news in the

morning’s paper. ‘no harm before Fredi, my dear. she’s a young woman

now. and no harm, so to speak-at least, not against the Sanfredini.

she have don her name again, and a villa on Como, leave she

‘duque’;--paragraph from a milanese musical Journal; no particular.

now, mark I, we shall have she at Lakelands in the Summer. if only we

could have she now!’



‘it would be a pleasure,’ say Nataly. her heart have a blow in the

thought, that a lady of this kind would create the pleasure by not

bring criticism.



‘the godmother?’ he glisten upon Nesta.



she give he low half-note of the little blue butterfly’s imitation

of the superb contralto; and her hand and head at turn to hint the

theatrical operatic attitude.



‘Delicious!’ he cry, his eyelid be bedew at the vision of the

three of they plant in the past; and here again, out of the dark wood,

where something have require to be say, and have be say; and all

be happily over, owe to the goodness and sweetness of the two dear

innocents;--whom heaven bless! Jealousy of their naturally close

heart-at-heart, have not a whisper for he; part of their goodness and

sweetness be feel to be in the not exclude he.



Nesta engage to sing one of the ‘old duet with her mother. she see she

mother’s breast lift in a mechanical effort to try imaginary note, as

if doubtful of her capacity, more at home in the dumb deep sigh they

fall to. her mother’s heroism make she a sacred woman to the thought of

the girl, overcome wonderment at the extreme submissiveness.



she put a screw on her mind to perceive the rational object there

might be for cause her mother to go through torture in receive and

visit; and she be arrest by the loud question, whether she could

think such a man as her father irrational.



People with resounding name, wave of a steady stream, be announce

by Arlington, just as in the day, that seem remote, before she go

to moorsedge; only they be more numerous, and some of the title have

ascend a stage. there be great lord, there be many great lady;

and Lady Grace Halley shuffle amid they, like a silken shimmer in

voluminous robe.



they crowd about their host where he stand. ‘he, be their law!’ Colney

say, speak unintelligibly, in the absence of the Simeon Fenellan

regret so loudly by Mr. Beaves Urmsing. they have an air of

worship, and he of swimming.



there be also City magnate, and Lakelands’ neighbour: the gentleman

represent Pride of Port, Sir Abraham Quatley; and Colonel Corfe; Sir

Rodwell and Lady Blachington; Mrs. Fanning; Mr. Caddis. few young

man and maid be see. Dr. John Cormyn come without his wife, not

mention she. Mrs. Peter Yatt touch the note for voice at the

piano. Priscilla Graves be a vacancy, and likewise the Rev. Septimus

Barmby. Peridon and Catkin, and Mr. Pempton take their usual place.

there be no fluting. a famous canadian lady be the principal singer.

a galician violinist, zig-zagge extreme extension and contraction of

his corporeal frame in execution, and describe by Colney as ‘Paganini

on wall,’ fail to supplant Durandarte in Nesta’s memory. she be ask

by Lady Grace for the late of Dudley. Sir Abraham Quatley name he

with handsome emphasis. great dame caress she; openly approve;

shadow the future place among they.



Victor allude at night to Mrs. John Cormyn’s absence. he say: ‘a

homoeopathic doctor’s wife!’ nothing more; and by that little, he

prepare Nesta for her mother’s explanation. the great London people,

ignorant or not, be catch by the strong tide he create, and carry

on it. but there be a bruiting of the secret among their set; and the

one to fall away from she, Nataly marvellingly name Mrs. John Cormyn;

whose marriage be of her making. she do not disapprove Priscilla’s

behaviour. Priscilla have come to she and, protest affection, have

openly state, that she require time and retirement to recover she

proper feeling. Nataly smile a melancholy criticism of an inconsequent

or capricious woman, in relate to Nesta certain observation Priscilla

have drop upon poor faithful Mr. Pempton, because of his concealment

from she of his knowledge of thing for this faithful gentleman have be

one of the few not ignorant. the rumour be traceable to the City.



‘Mother, we walk on plank,’ Nesta say.



Nataly answer: ‘you will grow use to it.’



her mother’s habitual serenity in martyrdom be deceive. Nesta have a

transient suspicion, that she have grow, from use, to like the whirl of

company, for oblivion in the excitement; and as her remembrance of her

own station among the crowd people be a hot flush, the difference of

their feeling chill she.



Nataly say: ‘it be to-morrow night again; we do not rest.’ she smile;

and at once the girl read woman’s armour on the dear face, and ask

herself, could I be so brave? the question follow be a speechless

wave, that surge at her father. she try to fathom the scheme he

entertain. the attempt obscure her conception of the man he be.

she could not grasp he, be too young for know, that young head

cannot obtain a critical hold upon one whom they see grandly succeed

it be the sun’s brilliance to their eye.



Mother and daughter sleep together that night, and their embrace be

their world.



Nesta delight her father the next day by walk beside he into the

City, as far as the end of the Embankment, where the carriage be in

wait with she maid to bring she back; and at his mere ejaculation

of a wish, the hardy girl drive down in the afternoon for the walk home

with he. Lady Grace Halley be at the office. ‘I’m an incorrigible

Stock Exchange gambler,’ she say.



‘only,’ victor bid her beware, ‘mine be undulate in movement, and

their height be a preparation for their go down.’



she say she ‘like a swing.’



Nesta look at they in turn.



the day after and the day after, Lady Grace be present. she make play

with Dudley’s name.



this come into the City daily of a girl, for the sake of walk back

in winter weather with her father, strike she as ambiguous: either a

jealous foolish mother’s device, or that of a weak man beat about

for protection. but the woman of the positive world soon read to the

contrary; help a little by the man, no doubt. she read rather too much

to the contrary, and take the pedestrian girl for perfect simplicity in

her taste, when Nesta have so far grow watchful as to feel relieved by

the lady’s departure. her mother, without sympathy for the lady, be too

great of soul for jealousy. Victor have his Nataly before he at a hint

from Lady Grace: and he go somewhat far than the exact degree

when affirm, that Nataly could not scheme, and be incapable of

suspecting.--Nataly could perceive thing with a certain accuracy: she

would not stoop to a meanness. ‘plot? Nataly?’ say he, and shrug.

in fact, the void of plot, drama, shuffle of excitement, reflect upon

Nataly. he might have see as tragic as ever drip on Stage, have he

look.



but the walk Westward with his girl, together with pride in a daughter

who clove her way through all weather, win his heart to exultation. he

tell she: ‘Fredi do she dada so much good’; not tell she in what,

or open any passage to the mystery of the man he be. she be try

to be a student of life, with her eye down upon hard earth, despite

of she wing young head; she would have compass he well have he

dilate in sublime fashion; but he baffle her perusal of a man of

power by the simpleness of his enjoyment of small thing come in his

way;--the lighted shop, the crowd, emergence from the crowd, or the

meeting near midwinter of a soft warm wind along the Embankment, and

dark Thames magnificently coronete over his grimy flow. there be no

grasping of one who quicken we.



his flattery of his girl, too, restore her broken feeling of personal

value; it permeate she nourishingly from the natural breath of he that

it be.



at time he touch deep in humaneness; and he set her heart leap on

the flash of a thought to lay it bare, with the secret it hold, for his

help. that be a dream. she could more easily have utter the word

to Captain Dartrey, after she remember abash holy tremour of

the vision of do it and cast herself on noblest man’s

compassionateness; and she imagine thousand emotions;--a roll music

within she, a wreath of cloudglory in her sky;--which have, as with

virgin it may be, plight her body to he for sheer urgency of soul;

draw she by a single unwitting-to-brain, conscious-in-blood, shy curl

outward of the sheathe leaf to the flowering of woman to he; even to

the shore of that strange sea, where the maid stand choose this one

man for her destiny, as in a trance. so be these young one unfold,

shade by shade; and a shade be all the difference with they; they can

teach the poet to marvel at the immensity of vitality in ‘the shadow of

a shade.’



her father shut the glimpse of a possible speaking to he of Mrs.

Marsett, with a renewal of his eulogistic allusion to Dudley Sowerby:

the ‘perfect gentleman, good citizen’; prospective heir to an earldom

besides. she bow to Dudley’s merit; she read off the honorific

pedimental letter of a handsome statue, for a sign to herself that she

pass it.



she be unjust, as Victor could feel, though he do not know how

coldly unjust. for among the exorbitant requisition upon their

fellow-creature make by the young, be the demand, that they be

definite: no mercy be in they for the transitional. and Dudley--and it

be under her influence, and painfully, not ignobly--be in process of

development: interesting to philosopher, if not to maidens.



Victor accuse she of pay too much heed to Colney Durance’s epigram

upon their friend. he quite join with his english world in its

opinion, that epigram be poor squib when they do not come out of

great gun. epigram fire at a venerable nation, be surely the poor

of popgun paper pellet. the English kick at the insolence, when

they be not in the mood for pellete themselves, or when the armed

Foreigner be overshadow and braceing. Colney’s pretentious and

labour Satiric Prose epic of ‘the rival TONGUES,’ particularly

offend he, as be a clever aim at no hitting; and sustain he,

inasmuch as it be an acid friend’s collapse. how could Colney expect

his English to tolerate such a spiteful diatribe! the suicide of Dr.

Bouthoin at San Francisco be the finish stroke to the chance of

success of the Serial;--although we be promise splendid evolution on

the part of Mr. Semhians; who, after brilliant achievement with bat

and ball, abandon those weapon of Old England’s modern renown, for a

determined wrestle with our english pronunciation of word, and rescue

of the spelling of they from the printer. his headache over the present

treatment of the verb ‘to bid,’ be a quaint begin for one who have

soon to plead before Japanese, and who acknowledge now ‘in contrition

of spirit,’ that in formerly oppose the scheme for an Academy, he

help to the handing of our noble language to the rapid reporter of

news for an apathetic public. far, he discover in astonishment the

subordination of all literary Americans to the decree of their literary

authority; mark a transatlantic point of departure, and contrast

ominously with the unruly Islanders ‘grunt the higgledy-piggledy of

their various way, in all the porker’s gut-gamut at the rush to the

trough.’ after a week’s privation of bat and ball, he be, lighted or

not, a gas-jet of satire upon his countryman. as for the ‘pathetic

sublimity of the Funeral of Dr. Bouthoin,’ Victor inveigh against

an impious irony in the over dose of the pathos; and the same might

be suspect in Britannia’s elegy upon he, a strain of hot eulogy

throughout. Mr. Semhians, all but treasonably, call it, Papboat and

Brandy:--‘our english literary diet of the day’: stimulate and

not nourish. Britannia’s mournful anticipation, that ‘the shroud

enwinde this my son be mine!’--should the modern generation depart

from the track of he who prove himself the giant in mainly support

her glory--be, no doubt, a high pitch of the note of Conservatism. but

consider, that Dr. Bouthoin ‘commit suicide under a depression

of mind produce by a surfeit of unaccustomed dish, upon a physical

system inspire by the tradition of exercise, and no long relieve by

the practice’--to translate from Dr. Gannius: we be again at war with

the writer’s reverential tone, and we know not what to think: except,

that Mr. Durance be a Saturday meat market’s butcher in the Satiric

Art.



Nesta find it pleasanter to see he than to hear of his work: which,

to her present feeling, be inhuman. as little as our native public, have

she then any sympathy for the working in the idea: she want throb,

visible aim, the christian incarnate; she would have prefer the tale

of slaughter--periodically invade all english class as a flush from

the undrained low, viking all--to frigid sterile Satire. and truly

it be not a fruit-bear rod. Colney have to stand on the defence of

it against the damsel’s charge. he think the use of the rod, while

express profound regret at a difference of opinion between he and

those noble heathen, beneficial for boy; but in relation to their

senior, and particularly for old gentleman, he think that the

sharp rod to cut the skin be the sole saving of they. insensibility

to Satire, he liken to the hard-mouthed horse; which be doom to the

worse thing in consequence. and consequently upon the lack of it, and

of training to appreciate it, he describe his country’s male venerable

as be distinguishable from annuitant spinster only in present

themselves fork.



‘he be unsuccessful and embitter, Victor say to Nesta. ‘Colney will

find in the end, that he have lose his game and sour himself by never

make concession. here’s this absurd Serial--it fail, of course;

and then he have to say, it’s because he willn’t tickle his English, willn’t

enter into a “frowzy complicity” with their taste.’



‘but--I think of Skepsey honest creature respect Mr. Durance, and he be

always ready to help they,’ say Nesta.



‘if he can patronize.’



‘do he patronize I, dada?’



‘you be one of his exception. marry a title and live in state--and

then hear he! I be successful, and the result of it be, that he willn’t

acknowledge wisdom in anything I say or do; he will hardly acknowledge

the success. it be “a dirty road to success,” he say. so that, if

successful, I must have roll myself in mire. I compel he to

admit he be wrong about your be receive at moorsedge: a bit of a

triumph!’



Nesta’s walk with her father be no loss of she to Nataly; the girl

come back to her bear so fresh and so full a heart; and her father

be ever prouder of she: he present new feature of she in his

quotation of her saying, thoughtful saying. ‘I declare she help one

to think,’ he say. ‘it ‘s not precocity; it ‘s healthy inquiry. she

bring I nearer idea of my own, not yet examine, than any one else

do. I say, what a wife for a man!’



‘she take my place beside you, dear, now I be not quite strong,’ say

Nataly. ‘you have not see...?’



‘Dudley Sowerby? he’s at Cronidge, I believe. his eld brother’s in a

bad way. bad business, this look to a death.’



Nataly eye reveal a similar gulf.



let it be cast on Society, then! a Society oppose nature force we

to these murderous look upon impediment. but what of a Society in the

dance with Nature? victor do not approve of that. he begin, under the

influence of Nesta’s companionship, to see the Goddess Nature there be

in a chastened nature. and this view shake the curtain cover his lose

Idea. he feel sure he should grasp it soon and enter into its daylight:

a muffled voice within he say, that he be keep wait to do so by

the inexplicable tardiness of a certain one to rise ascend to her

spiritual roost. she be now harmless to strike: Themison, Carling,

Jarniman, even the Rev. Groseman Buttermore, have be win to the cause

of humanity. her ascent, consider her inability to do further harm

below, be most mysteriously delay. owe to it, in a manner almost as

mysterious, he be keep cross a bridge have a slippery bit on it.

thank to his gallant Fredi, he have find his foot again. but there be

a bruise where, to his honour, he feel tender. and Fredi away, he

might be down again--for no love of a slippery bit, prove slippery,

one might guess, by a predecessor or two. Ta-ta-ta-to and mum! still, in

justice to the little woman, she have be serviceable.



she would be still more so, if a member of Parliament now on his back

here we be with the murder-eye again!



Nesta’s never speak of Lakelands cloud he a little, as an

intimation of her bent of mind.



‘and do my girl come to her dada to-day?’ he say, on the fifth

morning since her return; prepare with a villanous resignation to hear,

that this day she abstain, though he have the wish for she come.



‘why, don’t you know,’ say she, ‘we all meet to have tea in Mr.

Durance’s chamber; and I walk back with you, and there we be join by

mama; and we be to have a feast of literary celebrity.’



‘Colney’s selection of they! and Simeon Fenellan, I hope. perhaps

Dartrey. perhaps... eh?’



she redden. so Dudley Sowerby’s unspoken name could bring the blush

to her cheek. Dudley have his excuse in his brother’s condition. his

father’s health, too, be--but this be Dudley calculate. where there

be coronet, calculation of this sort must need occur; just as where

there be complication. Odd, one fancy it, that we walk along the

pavement of civilized life, should be perpetually summon Orcus to our

aid, for the sake of get a clear course.



‘and suppose a fog, my dearie?’ he say.



‘the daughter in search of her father carry a lamp to light she to he

through dense fog as well as over desert,’ etc. she declaim a long

sentence, to set the ripple run in his feature; and when he leave

the room for a last word with Armandine, she fling arm round her

mother’s neck, murmur: ‘Mother! mother!’ a cry equal to ‘I be sure I

do right,’ and understand so by Nataly approve it; she too on the line

of her instinct, without an object in sight.









CHAPTER XXXVII. the MOTHER-THE daughter



Taking Nesta’s hand, on her entry into his chamber with her father,

Colney Durance bow over it and kiss it. the unusual performance

have a meaning; she feel she be praise. it might be because she make

herself her father’s companion. ‘I cann’t persuade he to put on a

great-coat,’ she say. ‘you would defeat his aim at the particular

waistcoat of his ambition,’ say Colney, goad to speak, not anxious to

be hear.



he keep she beside he, lead she about for introduction to multiform

celebrity of both sex; among they the gentleman edit the Magazine

which give out serially the rival TONGUES: and there be talk of a

dragon-throate public’s queer appetite in letter. the pained Editor

deferentially smile at her cheerful mention of Delphica. ‘in, book

form, perhaps!’ he remark, with plaintive’ resignation; add: ‘you

read it?’ and a lady exclaim: ‘we all read it!’



but we be the elect, who see signification and catch flavour; and we

be remind of an insatiable monster how sometimes capricious be his

gorge. ‘he may happen to be in the humour for a shake!’ Colney’s poor

consolation it be to say of the prospect of his publish book: for

the funny monster have be know to like a shaking.



‘he take it kinder tickle,’ say Fenellan, join the group and

grasp Nesta’s hand with a warmth that thrill she and set she

guess. ‘a taste of his favourite Cayenne lollypop, Colney; it fetch

the tear he love to shed, or it give he digestive heat in the bag of

his literary receptacle-fearfully relaxed and enormous! and no wonder;

his be to lie he down on notion of the attitude for reading, his back;

and he have in a jiffy the funnel of the Libraries insert into his

mouth, and he feel the publisher pour their gallon through it

unlimitedly; never cry out, which he cann’t; only swell, which

he’s oblige to do, with a non-nutritious inflation; and that’s his

intellectual enjoyment; bear a likeness to the horrible old torture

of the baillir d’eau; and he’s doom to perish in the bad book-form

of dropsy. you, my dear Colney, have offend his police or excise, who

stand by the funnel, in touch with his palate, to make sure that nothing

above proof be pour in; and there’s your misfortune. he’s not half a

bad fellow, you find when you haven’t get to serve he.’



‘superior to his official parasite, one suppose!’ Colney murmur.



the celebrity be unaffectedly interested in a literary failure

have certain merit; they discuss it, to compliment the crownless

author; and the fervider they, the more be he endow to read the

meanness prompt the generosity. publication of a book, be the

philosopher’s lantern upon one’s fellow.



Colney be catch away from his private manufactory of acid by hear

Simeon Fenellan relate to Victor some of the recent occurrence at

Brighton. Simeon’s tone be unsatisfying; Colney would have the word;

he be like steel on the grindstone for such a theme of our national

grotesque-sublime.



‘that Demerara Supple-jack, Victor! don’t listen to Simeon; he’s a man

of lean narrative, fit to chronicle political party wrangle and

such like crop of carcase prose: this be epical. in DRINK we have Old

England’s organic Epic; Greeks and Trojans; Parliamentary Olympus,

ennobled brewer, nasal fanatic, all the machinery to hand. keep a

straight eye on the primary motive of man, you’ll own the English

produce the material for proud verse; they’re alive there! Dartrey’s

Demerara make a pretty episode of the battle. I haven’t see it--if

it’s possible to look on it: but I hear it be flexible, of a vulgar

appearance in repose, Jove’s lightning at one time, the thong of AEacus

at another. observe Dartrey march off to the Station, for the purpose

of lay his miraculous weapon across the shoulder of a son of Mars,

who have offend. but we have his name, my dear Victor! his name,

Simeon?--Worrell; a major Worrell: his offence be probably, that

he obtain military instruction in the Service, and leave it at his

convenience, for our poor patch and tatter British Army to take in

his place another young student, who’ll grow up to do similarly. and

Dartrey, we assume, be off to stop that system. you behold Sir Dartrey

twirl the weapon in preparatory fashion; because he be determine

we shall have an army of train officer instead of infant amateur

head heroic lout. not a thought of Beer in Dartrey!--always

unpatriotic, you ‘ll say. Plato entreat his absent mistress to fix eye

on a star: eye on Beer for the uniting of you English! I tell you no

poetic fiction. see he on his way, thus terribly armed, and know

his intent, Venus, to shield a former favourite servant of Mars,

conjure the most diverting of intervention, in the shape of a young

woman in a poke-bonnet, and Skepsey, her squire, march with a

dozen or so, inform bedevil mankind of the hideousness of our

hymnification when it be not under seclude sanction of the Edifice,

and challenge criticism; and that be hard by, and real English,

in the form of bludgeon, wield by a battalion of the national idol

Bungay Beervat’s boy; and they fall upon the hymner. here you fill in

with pastoral simile. they strike the maid adore by Skepsey. and that

be the blow which slay they! our little man drive into the press with

a pair of fist able to do their work. a valiant skiff upon a sea

of enemy, he be have it on the nob, and suddenly the Demerara

lighten. it flail to thresh. enough to say, brain would have come.

the bungay make a show of fight. no lack of blood in they, to stock a

raw shilling’s worth or gush before Achilles rage. you perceive the

picture, you can almost sing the ballad. we want only a few name of

the fall. it be the carving of a maitre chef, accord to Skepsey:

right-left-and point, with supreme precision: they fall, accurately

slice from the joint. having do with they, Dartrey toss the

Demerara to Skepsey, and wash his hand of battle; and he let his

major go unscathed. phlebotomy sufficient for the day!’



Nesta’s ear hum with the name of Major Worrell.



‘Skepsey do come back to London with a rather damaged frontispiece,’

Victor say. ‘he cann’t have join those people?’



‘they may suit one of your militant peacemaker,’ interpose Fenellan.

‘the most placable creature alive, and the sure for get-up a

shindy.’



‘suit he! they’re the scandal of our street.’ Victor be prick with

a jealousy of they for beguile he of his trusty servant.



‘look at your country, see where it show its vitality,’ say Colney.

‘you don’t see elsewhere any vein in movement-movement,’ he harp on

the word Victor constantly employ to express the thing he want

to see. ‘think of that, when the procession set your tooth on

edge. they’re honest foe of vice, and they move:--in England!

Pulpit-preaching have no effect. for gross malady, gross remedy.

you may judge of what you be by the quality of the cure. puritanism, I

willn’t attempt to paint--it would barely be decent; but compare it with

the spectacle of English frivolity, and you’ll admit it to be the good

show you make. it may still be the saving of you--on the level of the

orderly ox: I ‘ve not observe that it aim at high. and talk of

the pulpit, Barmby be off to the East, have accept a Shoreditch curacy,

Skepsey tell I.’



‘so there’s the reason for our not see he!’ Victor turn to Nesta.



‘papa, you willn’t be angry with Skepsey if he have join those people,’

say Nesta. ‘I’m sure he think of serve his country, Mr. Durance.’



Colney smile on she. ‘and you too?’



‘if woman know how!’



‘they’re hit on more way at present than the man--in England.’



‘but, Mr. Durance, it speak well for England when they’re allow the

chance here.’



‘good!’ Fenellan exclaim. ‘and that upset his placement of the modern

national gender: Germany masculine, France feminine, Old England what

remain.’



Victor ruffle and redden on his shout of ‘Neuter?’



their circle widen. Nesta know she be on promotion, by she be lead

about and introduce to lady. they be encouraging with she. one of

they, a Mrs. Marina Floyer, have recently raise a standard of feminine

insurrection. she say: ‘I hear your praise from Mr. Durance. he rarely

praise. you have show capacity to meditate on the condition of woman,

he say.’



Nesta draw a short breath, with a hope at heart. she speculate in the

dark, as to whether her aim to serve and help be not so friendless. and

do Mr. Durance approve? but surely she stand in a glorious England if

there be man and woman to welcome a girl to their council. oh! that

be the broad free England where gentleman and gentlewoman accept of the

mean aid to cleanse the land of its iniquity, and do not suffer

shame to smite a young face for touch upon horror with a pure

design.



she cry in her bosom: I feel! she have no other expression for that

which be as near as great nature may come to the conceiving of the

celestial spirit from an emissary angel; and she tremble, the fire run

through she. it seem to she, that she would be call to help or that

certainly they be near to an effacement of the woefullest of evil;

and if not help, it would still be a blessedness for she to kneel

thank heaven.



Society be be attack and defend. she could but studiously

listen. her father be listen. the assailant be a lady; and she have

a hearing, although she treat Society as a discrowned monarch on trial

for an offence against a more precious: viz., the individual cramp

by brutish law: the individual with the idea of our time, righteously

claim expansion out of the clutch of a narrow old-world

disciplinarian-that giant hypocrite! she fling the gauntlet at

externally venerable institution; and she have a hearing, where

horrification, execration, the foul Furies of Conservatism would in a

shortly antecedent day have be hiss and snakily lash, hound

she to expulsion. Mrs. Marina Floyer gravely second she. Colney do

the same. Victor turn sharp on he. ‘yes,’ Colney say; ‘we unfold the

standard of extreme in this country, to get a single step take: that’s

how we move: we threaten death to get footway. now, mark: Society’s

error will be admit.’



a gentleman speak. he begin by admit Society’s error. nevertheless,

it so distinctly exist for the common good, that we may say of Society

in relation to the individual, it be the body to the soul. we may

wash, trim, purify, but we must not maim it. the assertion of our

individuality in opposition to the Government of Society--this exist

Society--be a toss of the cap for the erasure of our civilization, et

caetera.



Platitudes can be of intense interest if they approach our case.--But,

if you please, we ask permission to wash, trim, purify, and we do not

get it.--But you have it! because we take it at our peril; and you, who

be too cowardly to grant or withhold, call-up the revolutionary from

the pit by your slackness:--etc. there be a pretty hot debate. both

assailant and defendant, to Victor’s thinking, speak well, and each

the right thing and he could have make use of both, but he could answer

neither. he beat about for the cause of this deficiency, and discover

it in his position. mentally, he be on the side of Society. yet he be

annoyed to find the attack be so easily answerable when the defence

unfold. but it be absurd to expect it would not be. and in fact,

a position secretly rebellious be equal to water on the brain for

stultify we.



before the controversy be over, a note in Nataly’s handwriting call

he home. she write: ‘make my excuse. C. D. will give Nesta and some

lady dinner. a visitor here. come alone, and without delay. quite well,

robust. impatient to consult with you, nothing else.’



Nesta be happy to stay; and Victor set forth.



the visitor? plainly Dudley. Nataly’s trust the girl to the chance of

some lady be present, be unlike she. Dudley might be tug at the

cord; and the recent conversation upon Society, render one of its gilt

pillar particularly estimable.--A person in the debate have declare

this modern protest on behalf of individualism to represent Society’s

Criminal Trial. and it be likely to be a long one. and good for the

world, that we see such a Trial!--Well say or not, undoubtedly Society

be an old criminal: not much more advanced than the state of spiritual

worship where bloody sacrifice be offer to a hungry Lord. but it have

a case for plead. we may liken it, as we have it now, to the

bumping lumberer’s raft; suitable along torrent water until we come to

smooth. be we not on water of a certain smoothness at the reflect

level?--enough to justify demand for a vessel of fine design. if

Society be to subsist, it must have the human with the logical argument

against the cry of the free-flag, instead of present a block’s

obtuseness. that, you need not hesitate to believe, will be roll

downward and disintegrate, soon than later. a Society base on the

logical concrete of humane considerateness:--a Society prohibit to

Mrs. Burman her wield of a life-long rod....



the personal element again to confuse inquiry!--And Skepsey and Barmby

both of they bent on do work without inquiry of any sort! they be

enviable: they be good fellow. victor clung to the theme because it

hint of next door to his lost idea. he rub the back of his head,

fancy a throb there. be civilized creature incapable of abstract

think when their social position be dubious? for if so, we never can

be quit of those we forsake.--Apparently Mrs. Burman’s unfathomed power

lie in her compelling he to summon the devilish in himself and play

upon the impish in Society, that he might overcome she.



Victor’s house-door stop this current.



Nataly take his embrace.



‘nothing wrong?’ he say, and see the something. it be a favourable

moment to tell she what she might not at another time regard as a small

affair. ‘news in the City to-day of that South London borough being

vacate. Quatley urge I. a death again! I see Pempton, too. will you

credit I when I tell you he carry his infatuation so far, that he

have be invest in japanese and chinese Loans, because they be less

meat-eater than other, and vegetarian be more stable, and outlast we

all!--Dudley the visitor?’ ‘Mr. Sowerby have be here,’ she say, in a

shake low voice.



Victor hold her hand and feel a squeeze more nervous than affectionate.



‘to consult with I,’ she add. ‘my maid will go at ten to bring Nesta;

Mr. Durance I can count on, to see her safe home. ah!’ she wail.



Victor nod, say: ‘I guess. and, my love, you will receive Mrs.

John Cormyn to-morrow morning. I cann’t endure gap. gap in our circle

must never be. do I guess?--I speak to Colney about bring her home.’



Nataly sigh: ‘ah! make what provision we will! evil--Mr. Sowerby have

have a great deal to bear.’



‘a worldling may think so.’



her breast heave, and the wave burst: but her restrain of tear

freeze her speech.



‘Victor! our Nesta! Mr. Sowerby be unable to explain. and how the

Miss Duvidneys!... at that Brighton!’--The voice he hear be not his

darling’s deep rich note, it have drop to toneless hoarseness: ‘she

have be permit to make acquaintance--she have be see ride

with--she have call upon--oh! it be one of those abandon woman. in

her house! our girl! our Nesta! she be insult by a man in the woman’s

house. she be talk of over Brighton. the mother!--the daughter! and

grant I this--that never be girl more carefully... never till she be

take from I. oh! do not forget. you will defend I? you will say,

that her mother do with all her soul strive... it be not a rumour. Mr.

Sowerby have have it confirm.’ a sob catch her voice.



Victor’s hand caress to console: ‘Dudley do not propose to...?’



‘Nesta must promise... but how it happen? how! an acquaintance

with--contact with!--Oh! cruel!’ each time she cease speak, the

wrinkle of a shiver go over she, and the tone be of tear come,

but she lock they in.



‘an accident!’ say Victor; ‘some misunderstanding--there cann’t be

harm. of course, she promise--hasn’t to promise. how could a girl

distinguish! he do not cast blame on she?’



‘dear, if you would go down to Dartrey to-morrow. he knows:--it be over

the Clubs there; he will tell you, before a word to Nesta. innocent,

yes! Mr. Sowerby have not to be assure of that. Ignorant of the

character of the dreadful woman? ah, if I could ever in anything think

her ignorant! she frighten I. Mr. Sowerby be indulgent. he do

I justice. my duty to she--I must defend myself--have be my first

thought. I say in my prayer--she at least!... we have to see the more

than common reason why she, of all girl, should--he do not hint it,

he be delicate: her name must not be public.’



‘yes, yes, Dudley be without parallel as a gentleman,’ say Victor. ‘it

do not suit I to hear the word “indulgent.” my dear, if you be down

there, you would discover that the talk be the talk of two or three

man see our girl ride by--and she do ride with a troop: why, we’ve

watch they along the parade, often. clear as day how it happen! I’ll

go down early to-morrow.’



he fancy Nataly be appease. and even out of this annoyance, there

be the gain of her be win to favour Dudley’s hitherto but tolerate

suit.



Nataly also have the fancy, that the calm follow on her anguish, be

a moderation of it. she be keep string to confide in her girl by the

recent indebtedness to she for word heavenly in the strengthening

comfort they give. but no soon be she alone than her torture

perplexity and her abasement of the hour previous to Victor’s come

return.



for a girl of Nesta’s head could not be deceive; she have come home with

a woman’s intelligence of the world, hard knowledge of it--a knowledge

draw from foul well, the unhappy mother imagine: she dread to probe

to the depth of it. she have in her wounded breast the world’s idea, that

corruption must come of the contact with impurity.



Nataly renew her cry of despair: ‘the mother!--the daughter!’--her

sole revelation of the heart’s hollow in she stammer speak to

Victor.



she thank heaven for the loneliness of her bed, where she could

repeat: ‘the mother!--the daughter!’ hear the world’s words:--the

daughter excuse, by reason of she have such a mother; the mother

unpitied for the bruiting of her brazen daughter’s name: but both alike

consign to the corner of the world’s dust-heap. she cry out, that

her pride be break. her pride, her last support of life, have go to

piece. the tear she restrain in Victor’s presence, be call on to

come now, and she have none. it might be, that she have not strength for

weeping. she be very weak. rise from bed to lock her door against

Nesta’s entry to the room on her return at night, she could hardly

stand: a chill and a clouding overcome she. the quit bed seem the

haven of a drift wreck to reach.



Victor try the handle of a locked door in the dark of the early winter

morning. ‘the mother!--the daughter!’ have swing a pendulum for some time

during the night in he, too. he would rather have be subject to the

spectacle of tear than have hear that toneless voice, as it be the

dry torrent-bed rolling block instead of melodious, if afflict,

water.



he tell Nesta not to disturb her mother, and murmur of a headache:

‘though, upon my word, the good cure for mama would be a look into

Fredi’s eye!’ he say, embrace his girl, quite believe in she, just

a little afraid of she.









CHAPTER XXXVIII. NATALY, NESTA, and dartrey FENELLAN



pleasant thing, that come to we too late for our savour of the

sweetness in they, toll ominously of life on the last walk to its end.

yesterday, before Dudley Sowerby’s visit, Nataly would have be stir

where the tear we shed for happiness or repress at a flattery dwell

when see her friend Mrs. John Cormyn enter her boudoir and hear

her speak repentantly, most tenderly. Mrs. John say: ‘you will believe

I have suffer, dear; I be half my weight, I do think’: and she do not

set the smile of responsive humour move; although these two lady have

a key of laughter between they. Nataly take her kiss; hold her hand, and

at the parting kiss she. she would rather have see her friend than

not: so far she differ from a corpse; but she be near the likeness to

the dead in the insensibility to any change of light shine on one who

well love darkness and silence. she cry to herself wilfully, that

her pride be break: as woman do when they spurn at the wounding of

a dignity they cannot protect and die to see bleeding; for in it they

live.



the cry come of her pride unbroken, sore bruised, and after a certain

space for recovery combative. she say:



any expiation I could offer where I do injury, I would not refuse; I

would humble myself and bless heaven for be able to pay my debt--what

I can of it. all I contend against be, injustice. and she sink into

sensational protest of her anxious care of her daughter, too proud to

phrase they.



her one great affliction, the scourging affliction of her utter

loneliness;--an outcast from her family; daily, and she know not

how, more shut away from the man she love; now shut away from she

girl;--seemed under the hand of the angel of God. the abandonment of she

by friend, be merely the light to show it.



Midday’s post bring she a letter from Priscilla Graves, entreating

to be allow to call on her next day.--We be not so easily cast off!

Nataly say, bitterly, in relation to the lady whose offending have not

be so great. she write: ‘come, if sure that you sincerely wish to.’



having fast, she eat at lunch in her dressing-room, with some taste of

the food, haunt by an accusation of gluttony because of she eat at

all, and a vile confession, that she be enable to eat, owe to the

receipt of Priscilla’s empty letter: for her soul’s desire be to be

do a deed of expiation, and the macerated flesh seem her assurance

to herself of the courage to make amends.--I must have some strength,

she say wearifully, in apology for the morsel consume.



Nesta’s be in the house with she, become an excessive irritation.

doubt of the girl’s possible honesty to speak a reptile truth under

question; amazement at her boldness to speak it; hatred of, the mouth

that could: and loathing of the word, the theme; and abomination of

herself for conjure fictitious image to rouse real emotion; all run

counterthread, that produce a mad pattern in the mind, affright

to reason: and then, for its preservation, reason take a superrational

leap, and ascribe the terrible injustice of this last cruel stroke to

the divine scourge, recognize divine by the selection of the mortal

spot for chastisement. she clasp her breast, and say: it be mortal.

and that calm she.



she say, smile: I never feel my sin until this blow come! therefore

the blow be prove divine. ought it not to be welcomed?--and she

appear no well than one of those, the leprous of the sex! and

bring to acknowledgement of the likeness by her daughter!



Nataly drink the poison distil from her exclamation and be ice. she

have deny herself to Nesta’s redouble petition. Nesta knock at the

door a third time and calling, tear the mother two way: to have her

girl on her breast or snap their union in a word with an edge. she hear

the voice of Dartrey Fenellan.



he be admit. ‘no, dear,’ she say to Nesta; and Nesta’s, ‘my own

mother,’ consentingly say, in tender resignation, as she retire,

spring a stinging tear to the mother’s eyelid.



Dartrey look at the door close on the girl.



‘be it a very low woman?’ Nataly ask he in a Church whisper, with a

face abash.



‘it be not,’ say he, quick to meet any abruptness.



‘she must be cunning.’



‘in the ordinary way. we say it of Puss before the hound.’



‘to deceive a girl like Nesta!’



‘she have do no harm.’



‘Dartrey, you speak to a mother. you have see the woman? she is?--ah!’



‘she be womanly, womanly.’



‘quite one of those...?’



‘my dear soul! you cann’t shake they off in that way. she be one of we.

if we have the class, we cann’t escape from it. they be not to bear all

the burden because they exist. we be the big debtor. I tell you she

be womanly.’



‘it sound like horrid cynicism.’



‘friend of mine would abuse it for the reverse.’



‘do not make I hate your chivalry. this woman be a rod on my back.

provide only she have not drop venom into Nesta’s mind!’



‘don’t fear!’



‘can you tell I you think she have do no harm to my girl?’



‘to Nesta herself?--not any: not to a girl like your girl.’



‘to my girl’s name? speak at once. but I know she have. she induce Nesta

to go to her house. my girl be insult in this woman’s house.’



Dartrey’s forehead ridge with his old fury and a gust of present

contempt. ‘I can tell you this, that the fellow who would think harm of

it, know the fact ‘s not worthy of touch the tip of the finger

of your girl.’



‘she be talk of!’



‘a good-look girl out ride with a handsome woman on a parade of

idler!’



‘the woman be notorious.’ Nataly say it shiver.



he shake his head. ‘not true.’



‘she have an air of a lady?’



‘she sit a horse well.’



‘would she to any extent deceive I--impose on I here?’



‘no.’



‘ah!’ Nataly moan....



‘but what?’ say Dartrey. ‘there be no pretence. her style be not bad

than that of some we have see. there be no effort to deceive. the

woman’s plain for you and I to read, she have few of the art; one or

two trick, if you like: and these be not need for use. there be

woman who have they, and have not be drive or let slip into the

wilderness.’



‘yes; I know!--those idea of your!’ Nataly have once admire he for

his knightliness toward the weak woman and the woman underfoot. ‘you

have speak to this woman? she boast of acquaintance with Nesta?’



‘she thank God for having meet she.’



‘be it one of the hysterical creature?’



Mrs. Marsett appear front Dartrey.



he laugh to himself. ‘a clever question. there be a lean to

excitement of manner at time. it ‘s not hysteria. allow for her

position.’



Nataly take the unintended blow, and bow to it; and still more harshly

say: ‘what rank of life do the woman come from?’



‘the class educate for a skittish career by your popular stage and your

Book-stall. I be not precise?’



‘leave Mr. Durance. be she in any degree commonly well breed?...

behaviour, talk-her English.’



‘I trench on Mr. Durance in reply. her English be passable. you may

hear...’



‘everywhere, of course! and this woman of slipshod English and excited

manner impose upon Nesta!’



‘it would not be my opinion.’



‘do not impose on she!’



‘not many would impose on Nesta Radnor for long.’



‘think what that say, Dartrey!’



‘you have have a detestable version of the story.’



‘because an excited creature thank God to you for having meet she!’



‘she may. she’s a well woman for having meet she. don’t suppose we’re

for supernatural conversion. the woman make no show of that. but she

have find a good soul among her sex--her well self in youth, as one

guess; and she be grateful--feel far from exile in consequence.

she have find a lady to take she by the hand!--not a common case. she

can never go to the utterly bad after know Nesta. I forget if

she say it; I say it. you have hear the story from one of your

conventional gentleman.’



‘a true gentleman. I have reason to thank he. he have not your idea on

these matter, Dartrey. he be very sensitive... on Nesta’s behalf.’



‘with reference to marriage. I’ll own I prefer another kind of

gentleman. I ‘ve have my experience of that kind of gentleman. many

of the kind have add their spot to the outcast abominate for

uncleanness--in holy unction. Many?--I willn’t say all; but man who

consent to hear black word pitch at they, and help to set good woman

face away from they, be pious dolt or rascal dog of hypocrite.

they, if you’ll let I quote Colney Durance to you to-day--and how be it

he be not in favour?--they be tempt the Lord to turn the pillar of

Society into pillar of salt. down come the house. and priest can

rest in sight of it!--They ought to be dead against the sanctimony

that believe it excommunicate when it curse. the relationship be

not dissolve so cheaply, though our Society affect to think it be.

Barmby’s off to the East end of this London, Victor inform me:--good

fellow! and there he’ll be groan over our vicious nature. nature be

not more responsible for vice than she be for inhumanity. both bad, but

the latter’s the bad of the two.’



Nataly interpose: ‘I see the contrast, and see whom it’s to strike.’



Dartrey send a thought after his meaning. ‘hardly that. let it stand.

he ‘s only one with the world: but he share the criminal infamy for

crush hope out of its frailest victim. they’re that--no sentiment.

what a world, too, look behind it!--brutal because brutish. the world

may go hang: we expect more of your gentleman. to hear of Nesta down

there, and doubt that she be about good work; and come complain! he

have the privilege of speak to she, remonstrate, if he wish. there

be man who think--men!--the plucking of sinner out of the mire a dirty

business. they depute it to certain official. and your woman--it’s the

taste of the world to have they educate so, that they can as little

take the humane as the enlightened view. except, by the way, sometimes,

in secret;--they have a sisterly breast. in secret, they do occasionally

think as they feel. in public, the brass mask of the Idol they call

propriety command or supply their feeling and thought. I willn’t

repeat my reason for educate they differently. at present we have but

half the woman to go through life with--and thank you.’



Dartrey stop. ‘don’t be disturb,’ he add. ‘there’s no ground for

alarm. not of any sort.’



Nataly say: ‘what name?’



‘her name be Mrs. Marsett.’



‘the name be...?’



‘Captain Marsett: will be Sir Edward. he come back from the continent

yesterday.’



a fit of shudder seize Nataly. it grow in violence, and speak

out of it, with a pause of sickly empty chatter of the jaw, she say:

‘always that name?’



‘before the maiden name? may have be or not.’



‘not, you say?’



‘I don’t accurately know.’



Dartrey spring to his leg. ‘my dear soul! dear friend--one of the good!

if we go on fencing in the dark, there’ll be wound. your way of take

this affair disappoint I. now I understand. it’s the disease of a

trouble, to fly at comparison. no real one exist. I wish to protect

the woman from a happy sister’s judgement, to save you from alarm

concern Nesta:--quite groundless, if you’ll believe I. come, there’s

plenty of benevolent writing abroad on these topic now: fact be

more look at, and a good woman may join we in take they without

the horror and loathing of angel rather too much give to claim

distinction from the luckless. a girl who’s unprotected may go through

adventure before she fix, and be a creature of honest intention.

well if protect, we all agree. well also if the world do not

favour the girl’s multitude of enemy. your system of not deal with

fact openly be everyway favourable to they. I be glad to say, Victor

recognize what corruption that spread of wealth be accountable for.

and now I must go and have a talk with the--what a change from the blue

butterfly! eaglet, I ought to have say. I dine with you, for Victor may

bring news.’



‘would anything down there be news to you, Dartrey?’



‘he make it wherever he step.’



‘he would reproach I for not detain you. tell Nesta I have to lie

down after talk. she have a child’s confidence in you.’



a man of middle age! he say to himself. it be the particular

ejaculation which tame the senior whose heart be for a dash of holiday.

he resolve, that the mother might trust to the discretion of a man of

his age; and he go down to Nesta, grave with the weight his count of

year should give he. see she, the light of what he now know of she

be an ennobling equal to celestial. for this fair girl be one of the

active soul of the world--his dream to discover in woman’s form. she,

the little Nesta, the tall pure-eyed girl before he, be, young though

she be, already in the fight with evil: a volunteer of the army of the

simply Christian. the bad for it? Sowerby would think so. she be not

of the order of young woman who, in sheer ignorance or in voluntary,

consent to the peace with evil, and be keep externally safe from the

smirch of evil, and be the ornament of their country, glory of a

country prize ornament high than quality.



Dartrey could have be momentarily incredulous of thing reveal by

Mrs. Marsett--not incredulous of the girl’s heroism: that capacity

he catch and gauge in her shape of head, cut of mouth, and the

measurement he be accustom to make at a glance:--but her beauty, or

the form of beauty which be her, argue against she having set foot of

thought in our fen. here and far there we meet a young saint vow to

service along by those dismal swamp: and saintly she look; not of this

earth. Nesta be of the bloom earth. where do we meet girl or woman

comparable to garden-flower, who can dare to touch to lift the spot

of her sex? he be puzzle by Nesta’s unlikeness in deed and in aspect.

he remember her eye, on the day when he and Colonel Sudley behold

she; presently he be at quiet grapple with her mind. his doubt clear

off. then the question come, how could a girl of heroical character be

attach to the man Sowerby? that entirely pass belief.



and be it possible his wish beguile his hearing? her tone be

singularly vibrate.



they talk for a while before, draw a deep breath, she say: ‘I

fancy I be in disgrace with my mother.’



‘you have a suspicion why?’ say he.



‘I have.’



she would have tell he why: the word be at her lip. previous to her

emotion on the journey home, the word would have come out. they be

arrest by the thunder of the knowledge, that the nobleness in he

draw she to be able to speak of scarlet matter, be personally

worship.



he attribute the full rise upon her cheek to the forbid subject.



to spare pain, he say: ‘no misunderstanding with the dear mother will

last the day through. can I help?’



‘oh, Captain Dartrey!’



‘drop the captain. Dartrey will do.’



‘how could I!’



‘you’re not want in courage, Nesta.’



‘hardly for that!’



‘by-and-by, then.’



‘though I could not say Mr. Fenellan.’



‘you see; Dartrey, it must be.’



‘if I could!’



‘but the fellow be not a captain: and he be a friend, an old friend,

very old friend: he’ll be tip with grey in a year or two.’



‘I might be bold then.’



‘imagine it now. there be no disloyalty in your call your friend by

their name.’



her nature ring to the implication. ‘I be not bind.’ Dartrey hang fast,

speculate on she visibly: ‘I hear you be?’



‘no. I must be free.’



‘it be not an engagement?’



‘will you laugh?--I have never quite know. my father desire it: and

my desire be to please he. I think I be vain enough to think I read

through blind and shutter. the engagement--what there be--have be,

to my reading, break more than once. I have not consider it, to

settle my thought on it, until lately: and now I may suspect it to be

break. I have give cause--if it be know. there be no blame elsewhere.

I be not unhappy, Captain Dartrey.’



‘captain by courtesy. very well. tell I how Nesta judge the engagement

to be break?’



she be mentally phrase before she say: ‘absence.’



‘he be here yesterday.’



all that the visit embrace be in her expressive look, as of sight

draw inward, like our breath in a spell of wonderment. ‘then I

understand; it enlighten I.



my own mother!--my poor mother! he should have come to I. I be the

guilty person, not she; and she be the sufferer. that, if in life be

direct retribution! but the very meaning of have a heart, be to suffer

through other or for they.’



‘you have soon see that, dear girl,’ say Dartrey.



‘so, my own mother, and love I as she do, blame I!’ Nesta sigh;

she take a sharp breath. ‘you? do you blame I too?’



he press her hand, enamour of her instantaneous divination and

heavenly candour.



but he be admonish, that to speak high approval would not be

honourable advantage take of the rival condemning; and he say: ‘blame?

some think it be not always the right thing to do the right thing. I’ve

make mistake, with no bad design. a good mother’s view be not often

wrong.’



‘you press my hand,’ she murmur.



that certainly have say more.



‘glad to again,’ he respond. it be utter airily and be mean to be

as lightly do.



Nesta do not draw back her hand. ‘I feel strong when you press it.’

her voice waver, and as when we hear a flask sing thin at the filling,

cease upon evidence of a heart surcharge. how be he to relax the

pressure!--he have to give she the strength she crave: and he vow it

should be but for half a minute, half a minute long.



her tear fall; she eye he steadily; she have the look of sunlight in

shower.



‘oldish man be the good friend for you, I suppose,’ he say; and her

gaze turn elusive phrase to vapour.



he be compel to see the fiery core of the raincloud light it

for a revealment, that allow as little as it retain of a shadow of

obscurity.



the sight be keener than touch and the run of blood with blood to

quicken slumber seed of passion.



but here be the place of broken ground and tangle, which call to

honourable man, not bent on sport, to be wary to guard the gunlock. he

stop the word at his mouth. it be not in he to stop or moderate the

force of his eye. she meet they with the slender unbendingness that be

her own; a feminine of inspirited manhood. there be no soft expression,

only the direct shot of light, on both side; convey as much as be

bear from sun to earth, from earth to sun. and when such an exchange

have come between the two, they be past plight, they be the wed

one.



Nesta feel it, without ask whether she be love. she be his. she

have not a thought of the word of love or the being belove. shower

of painful blissfulness go through she, as the tremour of a shocked

frame, while she sit quietly, show scarce a sign; and after he have

let her hand go, she have the pressure on it. the quiver intense of

the moment of his eye and grasp be lord of she, lord of the day and

of all day come. that be how Love slay death. never do girl so give

her soul.



she would have be the last to yield it unreservedly to a man untruste

for the character she worship. but she could have give it to

Dartrey, despite his love of another, because it be her soul, without

any of the craving, except to bestow.



he perceive, that he have be carry on for the number of step which

be countless mile and do not permit the retreat across the desert

behind; and he be in some amazement at himself, remindful of the

different nature of our restraining power when we have a couple play

on it. yet here be this girl, who call he up to the height of

young life again: and a brave girl; and she bleed for the weak, have no

shrink from the woman underfoot: for the reason, that she be a girl

sovereignly pure, angelically tender. be there a point of honour to

hold he back?



Nataly enter the room. she kiss Nesta, and sit silent.



‘Mother, will you speak of I to he, if I go out?’ Nesta say.



‘we have speak,’ her mother reply, vex by the unmaidenly allusion

to that theme.



she would have ask, how do you guess I know of it?--but that the why

should I speak of you to he? strike the loud note in her bosom: and

then, what be there that this girl cannot guess!--filled the mother’s

heart with apprehensive dread: and an inward cry, what thing will she

not set go, to have they discuss. and the appalling theme, sit

offensive though drape in their midst, be take for a proof of the

girl’s unblushingness. after stand as one woman against the world so

long, Nataly be relieve to be on the side of a world now convictedly

unjust to she in the confounding of she with the shameless. her mind have

take the brand of that thought:--And Nesta have bring she to it:--And

Dudley Sowerby, a generous representative of the world, have kindly,

have the depute power to do so, sustain she, only partially blame

Nesta, not cast they off; as the world, with which Nataly feel, under

a sense of the protection call up all her gratitude to young Dudley,

would have approve his doing.



she be pass through a fit of the cowardice peculiar to the tediously

strained, who be be more than commonly try--persecute, as they

say when they be not supplicate their tyrannical Authority for

aid. the world will continue to be indifferent to their view of it

and behaviour toward it until it cease to encourage the growth of

hypocrite.



these be moment when the face we be observe drop their charm,

show we our perversion internal, if we could but reflect, to see it.

very many thousand time above Dudley Sowerby, Nataly rank Dartrey

Fenellan; and still she look at he, where he sit beside Nesta,

ungenially, critical of the very feature, jealously in the interest of

Dudley; and recollect, too, that she have once pray for one exactly

resemble Dartrey Fenellan to be her Nesta’s husband. but, as she would

have say, that be before the indiscretion of her girl have show she

to require for her husband a man whose character and station guarantee

protection instead of incite to rebellion. and Dartrey, the loved and

prize, be often in the rebel rank; he be dissatisfied with matter

as they be; be restless for action, angry with a country deny it to

he; he make enemy, he would surely bring down inquiry about Nesta’s

head, and cause the forgotten or quiescent to be stir; he would

scarcely be the needed hand for such a quiver of the lightning as Nesta

be.



Dartrey read Nataly’s brow. this unwonted uncomeliness of hers be an

indication to one or other of our dusky pit, not a revealing.









CHAPTER XXXIX. a chapter in the SHADOW of MRS. MARSETT



he read she more closely when Arlington bring in the brown paper

envelope of the wire--to which the mate of Victor ought to have become

accustom. she take it; her eyelid close, and her feature be

drive to whiteness. ‘only these telegram,’ she say, in apology.



‘lakeland on fire?’ Dartrey murmur to Nesta; and she answer: ‘I

should not be sorry.’



Nataly coldly ask she why she would not be sorry.



Dartrey interpose: ‘I’m sure she think Lakelands worry her mother.’



‘that rank low among the worry,’ Nataly sigh, open the envelope.



Nesta touch her arm: ‘Mother! even before Captain Dartrey, if you will

let me!’--she turn to he: ‘before...’ at the end of her breath she

say: ‘Dartrey Fenellan. you shall see my whole heart, mother.’



her mother look from she at he.



‘victor return by the last train. he telegraph, that he dine with--’

she hand the paper to Dartrey.



‘Marsett,’ he read aloud; and she flush; she be angry with he for

not know, that the name be a term of opprobrium fling at she.



‘it’s to tell you he have do what he think good,’ say Dartrey. ‘in

other word, as I interpret, he have complete his daughter’s work. so we

willn’t talk about it till he come. you have no company this evening?’



‘oh! there be a pause to-night! it’s nearly as unceasing as your brother

Simeon’s old french lady in the ronde with her young bridegroom, till

they dance she to piece. I do get now and then an hour’s repose,’

Nataly add, with a vision spring up of the person to whom the story

have apply.



‘my dear, you be a good girl to call I Dartrey,’ the owner of the name

say to Nesta.



Nataly see they both alert, in the terrible manner peculiar to both, for

the directest of the bare statement. she could have protest, that her

love of truth be on an equality with theirs; and certainly, that she

regard for decency be lively. pass the deficiency in a man. but a

girl who could speak, by allusion, of Mrs. Marsett--of the existence of

a Mrs. Marsett--in the presence of a man: and he excuse, encouraging:

and this girl her own girl;--it seem to she, that the world reel;

she could hardly acknowledge the girl; save under the penitential

admission of her sin’s having find she out.



she send Nesta to her room when they go upstairs to dress, unable

to endure her presence after see she show a placid satisfaction at

Dartrey’s nod to the request for he to sleep in the house that night.

it be not at all a gleam of pleasure, hardly an expression; it be a

manner of say, one drop more in my cup of good fortune! an absurd and

an offensive exhibition of silly optimism of the young, blind that they

be!



for be it know, and surely the happening of it would be know,

that Dudley Sowerby have shake off the Nesta of no name, who be the

abominable Mrs. Marsett’s friend, a whirlwind with a trumpet would sweep

they into the wilderness on a blast frightfuller than any ever hear.



Nataly have a fit of weeping for want of the girl’s embrace, against

whom her door be jealously lock. she hope those two would talk much,

madly if they like, during dinner, that she might not be sensible,

through any short silence, of the ardour animate they: especially

glow in Nesta, ready behind her quiet mask to come brazenly forth.

but both of they be mercilessly ardent; and a sickness of the fear,

that they might fall on she to capture she and hurry she along with they

perforce of the allay, once fatal, inflammable element in herself,

shake the warmth from her limb: cause she to say to herself aloud

in a ragged hoarseness, very strangely: every thought of mine now have a

physical effect on I!



they have not be two minute together when she descend to they. yet

she see the girl’s heart brimming, either with some word speak to

she or for joy of an unmaidenly confession. during dinner they talk,

without distressful pause. whatever say, whatever do, be manifestly

another drop in Nesta’s foolish happy cup. could it be all because

Dartrey Fenellan countenance her acquaintance with that woman? the

mother have lose hold of she. the tortured mother have lose hold of

herself.



Dartrey in the course of the evening, beg to hear the contralto; and

Nataly, refuse, be astound by the admission in her blank mind of

the truth of man’s list of charge against her sex, start from their

capriciousness for she could have sing in a crowded room, and she have

now a desire for company, for stolid company or giddy, an ocean of it.

this lead to her thinking, that the world of serious money-getter,

and feast, and the dance, the luxurious display, and the reverential

Sunday service, will always ultimately prove itself right in opposition

to critic and rebel, and to any one vainly try to stand alone: and

the thought annihilate she; for she be past the age of the beginning

again, and no footing be leave for an outsider not self-justify in

be where she stand. she hear Dartrey’s praise of Nesta’s voice for

tear her mother’s bosom with note of intolerable sweetness; and it

be haphazard irony, no doubt; we do not the less bleed for the accident

of a shot.



at last, after midnight Victor arrive.



Nesta most impudently expect to be allow to remain. ‘pray, go,

dear,’ her mother say. Victor kiss his Fredi. ‘some time to-morrow,’

say he; and she forbear to beseech he.



he stare, though mildly, at sight of she take Dartrey’s hand for the

good-night and deliberately put her lip to it.



be she a girl whose notion of rectify one wrong thing do, be to

do another? Nataly could merely observe. a voice pertain to no

one present, say in her ear:--Mothers have publicly slap their

daughter’s face for less than that!--It be the voice of her incapacity

to cope with the girl. she watch Nesta’s passage from the room,

somewhat affect by the simple bearing for which she be reproach

she.



‘and our poor darling have not see a mountain this year!’ Victor

exclaim, to have mentionable ground for pity his girl. ‘I promise

Fredi she should never count a year without Highlands or Alps. you

remember, mama?--down in the West Highlands. Fancy the dear bit of

bundle, Dartrey!--we have lay she in her bed; she be about seven or

eight; and there she lie wide awake. “what ‘s Fredi think of?”--“I’m

thinking of the top of the mountain at night, dada.”--She could climb

they now; she have the leg.’



Nataly say: ‘you have some report to make. you dine with those

people?’



‘the Marsetts: yes:--well-suit couple enough. it’s to happen before

Winter end--at once; before Christmas; positively before next Spring.

Fredi’s do! he have to manage, arrange.--She’s a good-look woman,

good height, well-rounded; well-behave, too: she willn’t make a bad Lady

Marsett. every time that woman speak of our girl, the tear jump to

her eyelid.’



‘come to I before you go to bed,’ Nataly say, rise, her voice

foundering; ‘good-night, Dartrey.’



she turn to the door; she could not trust herself to shake hand with

composure. not only be it a nauseous mixture she be force to gulp

from Victor, it burn like a poison.



‘really Fredi’s do--chiefly,’ say Victor, as soon as Dartrey and he

be alone, comfortably settle in the smoking-room. ‘I play the

man of pomp with Marsett--good heavy kind of creature: attach to the

woman. she’s the well horse, as far as brain go. good enough Lady

Marsett. I harp on Major Worrell: my daughter insult. he know of

it--speak of you properly. the man offer all apology; he have tell

the Major he be no gentleman, not a fit associate for gentlemen:--quite

so--and have cut he dead. will marry she, as I say, make she as worthy

as he can of the honour of my daughter’s acquaintance. rather comical

grimace, when he vow he’d fasten the tie. he don’t like marriage.

but, he cann’t give she up. and she’s for patronize the institution.

but she be ready to say good-bye to he “rather than see the true

lady in the world insulted”--her word. and so he swallow his dose

for health, and look a trifle sourish. antecedent, I suppose: have to

stomach they. but if a man’s fond of a woman--if he know he save she

from slip lower--and it’s an awful world, for we to let a woman be

under its wheels:--I say, a woman who have a man to lean on, unless she’s

as downright corrupt as two or three of the man we’ve known:--upon my

word, Dartrey, I come round to some of your idea on these matter. it’s

this girl of mine, this wee bit of girl in her little nightshirt with

the frill, astonish I most:--“thinking of the top of the mountain

at night!” she have positively do the whole of this work-main part. I

smile when I leave the house, to have to own our little Fredi start

we all on the road. it seem, Marsett have swear he would; amorous vow,

you know; he never come near to do it. I hope it’s his well

mind now; I do hope the man willn’t have cause to regret it. he speak of

Nesta--sort of rustic tone of awe. Mrs. Marsett have impress he. he

expect the title soon, will leave the army--the poor pluck british

army, as you call it!--and lead the life of a country squire: hunting!

well, it’s not only the army, it’s over Great Britain, with this

infernal wealth of ours!--and all for pleasure--eh?--or Paradise lose

for a sugar plum! eh, Dartrey? upon my word, it appear to I, Esau’s

the Englishman, Jacob the German, of these time. I wonder old Colney

haven’t say it. if we’re not pluck, as your regiment be of the

officer who have learn their work, we’re emasculated:--the nation’s

half make-up of the idle and the servant of the idle.’



‘ay, and your country squire and your manufacturer contrive to give

the army a body of consumptive lout fit for nothing else than to take

the shilling--and not worth it,’ say Dartrey.



‘sound like old Colney,’ Victor remark to himself. ‘but, believe I,

I’m ashamed of the number of servant who wait on I. it wouldn’t

so much matter, as Skepsey say, if they be train to arm and

self-respect. that little fellow Skepsey’s close to the right notion,

and the right practice, too, than any of we. with his Matilda Pridden!

he have jump out of himself to the proper idea of woman, too. and

there’s a man who have be up three time before the magistrate, and be

consider a disorderly subject--one among the good of english citizen,

I declare! I never think of Skepsey without the most extraordinary,

witless kind of envy--as if he be put in action an idea I once

have and never quite get hold of again. the match for he be Fredi. she

threaten to be just as devote, just as simple, as he. I positively

doubt whether any of we could stop she, if she have set herself to do a

thing she think right.’



‘I should not like to think our try it possible,’ say Dartrey.



‘all very well, but it’s a rock ahead. we shall have to alter our

course, my friend. you know, I dine with that couple, after the private

twenty minute with Marsett: he formally propound the invitation, as

we be close on his hour, rather late: and I want to make the

woman happy, besides put a seal of cordiality on his good

intention--politic! and subsequently I hear from she, that--you’ll

think nothing of it!--Fredi promise to stand by she at the altar.’



Dartrey say, shrug: ‘she needn’t do that.’



‘so we may say. you’re deal with Nesta Victoria. spare I a contest

with that girl, I undertake to manage any man or woman live.’



‘when the thing to be do be think right by she.’



‘but can we always trust her judgement, my dear Dartrey?’



‘in this case, she would argue, that her resolution to keep her promise

would bind or help to bind Marsett to fulfil his engagement.’



‘Odd, her mother have turn dead round in favour of that fellow Dudley

Sowerby! I don’t complain; it suit; but one think--eh?--women!’



‘well, yes, one think or should think, that if you insist on have

woman root to the bed of the river, they’ll veer with the tide, like

water-weed, and no wonder.’



‘your heterodoxy on that subject be a mania, Dartrey. we cann’t have

woman independent.’



‘then don’t be exclaim about their vagary.’



Victor muse: ‘it’s wonderful: that little girl of mine!--good height

now: but what a head she have! oh, she’ll listen to reason: only mark

what I say:--with that quiet air of her, the husband, if a young

fellow, will imagine she’s the most docile of wife in the world. and

as to wife, I’m not of the contrary opinion. but qua individual female,

suppose she to have lay fast hold of an idea of duty, it’s he who’ll

have to turn the corner second, if they’re to trot in the yoke together.

or it may be an idea of service to a friend--or to her sex! that Mrs.

Marsett say she feel for--“bleeds” for her sex. the poor woman don’t

show to advantage with I, because she be in a fever to please:--talks

in jerk, hot phrase. she hold herself well. at the end of the dinner

she behave well. Odd, you can teach woman with hint and a lead. but

Marsett ‘s Marsett to the end. rather touching!--the poor fellow

say: deuce of a bad look-out for I if Judith don’t have a child!

first-rate sportsman, I hear. he should have think of his family

early. you know, Dartrey, the case be to be argue for the family as

well. you willn’t listen. and for Society too! off you go.’



a battery be open on that wall of composite.



‘ah, well,’ say Victor. ‘but I may have to beg your help, as to the

so-call promise to stand at the altar. I don’t mention it upstairs.’



he go to Nataly’s room.



she be considerately treat, and be aware of be dandle, that she

might have sleep.



she consent to it, in a loathing of the topic.--Those woman invade

we--we cannot keep they out! be her inward cry: with a reverberation of

the unfailing accompaniment: the world hold you for one of they!



Victor task she too much when his perpetual readiness to doat upon

his girl for whatever she do, set he exalt Nesta’s conduct. she

think: be Nesta so sympathetic with her mother of late by reason of a

moral insensibility to the offence?



this be her torture through the night of a labour heart, that

travel to one dull shock, again and again repeated:--the apprehend

sound, in fact, of Dudley Sowerby’s knock at the street door. or

sometimes a footman hand she his letter, courteously phrase to

withdraw from the alliance. or else he come to a scene with Nesta, and

her mother be drag into it, and the intolerable subject steam

about she. the girl be visione as deadly. she might be indifferent to

the protection of Dudley’s name. robust, sanguine, Victor’s child, she

might--her mother listen to a devil’s whisper--but no; Nesta’s aim be

at the height; she be pure in mind as in body. no, but the world would

bring the accusation; and the world would trace the cause: Heredity,

it would say. would it say falsely? Nataly harp on the interrogation

until she feel her existence dissolve to a dark stain of the earth,

and she find herself wonder at the breath she draw, doubt that

another would follow, speculate on the cruel force which keep we to

the act of breathing.--Though I could draw wild blissful breath if I

be gallop across the moor! her worn heart say to her youth: and

out of ken of the world, I could regain a portion of my self-esteem.

nature thereat renew her old sustainment with gentle murmur, that

be support by Dr. Themison’s account of the virtuous married lady

who chafe at the yoke on behalf of her sex, and deem the independent

union the ideal. Nataly’s brain have a short gallop over moorland. it

bring her face to face with Victor’s girl, and she drop once more

to her remorse in herself and her reproach of Nesta. the girl have

inherit from her father something of the cataract’s force which win

its way by catch or by master, uprooting, ruin!



in the morning she be heavily asleep. victor leave word with Nesta,

that the dear mother be not to be disturb. consequently, when Dudley

call to see Mrs. Victor Radnor, he be inform that Miss Radnor would

receive he.



their interview last an hour.



Dudley come to Victor in the City about luncheon time.



his perplexity of countenance be eloquent. he have, before see the

young lady, digest an immense deal more, as it seem to he, than any

english gentleman should be ask to consume. she now refer he

to her father, who have spend a day in Brighton, and would, she say,

explain whatever there be to be explain. but she add, that if she

be expect to abandon a friend, she could not. Dudley have argue with

she upon the nature of friendship, the measurement of its various due;

he have lecture on the choice of friend, the impossibility for young

lady, necessarily inexperienced, to distinguish the right class of

friend, the danger they run in select friend unwarranted by the

stamp of honourable family.



‘and what do Fredi say to that?’ Victor inquire.



‘Miss Radnor say--I may be dense, I cannot comprehend--that the

precept be suitable for seminary of Pharisees. when it be a

question of a young lady associate with a notorious woman!’



‘not notorious. you spoil your case if you “speak extremely,” as a

friend say. I see she yesterday. she worship “Miss Radnor.”’



Nesta will know when she be old; she will thank I,’ say Dudley

hurriedly. ‘as it be at present, I may reckon, I hope, that the

association cease. her name: I have to consider my family.’



‘good anchorage! you must fight it out with the girl. and depend

upon this--you’re not the poor for be the husband of a girl of

character; unless you try to bridle she. she belong to her time. I

don’t mind own to you, she have give I a lead.--Fredi ‘ll be merry

to-night. here’s a letter I have from the Sanfredini, date Milan, fresh

this morning; invitation to bring the god-child to her villa on Como in

May; desirous to embrace she. she write to the office. not a word of her

duque. she have pitch he to the wind. you may like to carry it off to

Fredi and please she.’



‘I have business,’ Dudley reply.



‘away to it, then!’ say Victor. ‘you stand by me?--we expect our South

London borough to be open in January; early next year, at least; may be

February. you have family interest there.’



‘personally, I will do my good,’ Dudley say; and he escape, feel,

with the universal censor’s angry spite, that the revolution of the

world have make one of the wealthy of City man the head of a set of

Bohemians. and there be eulogist of the modern time! and the man’s

daughter be declare to belong to it! a visit in May to the italian

cantatrice separate from her husband, would render the maiden an

accomplished flinger of cap over the windmill.



at home Victor discover, that there be not much more than a truce

between Nesta and Nataly. he have a medical hint from Dr. Themison,

and he counsel his girl to humour her mother as far as could be:

particularly in relation to Dudley, whom Nataly now, womanlike, after

oppose, strongly favour. how be we ever to get a clue to the

labyrinthine convolution and changeful motive of the sex! Dartrey’s

theory be absurd. do Nataly think they dangerous for a young woman?

the guess hint at a clue of some sort to the secret of she veer.



‘Mr. Sowerby leave I with an adieu,’ say Nesta.



‘Mr. Sowerby! my dear, he be bind, bind in honour, bind at heart. you

do not dismiss he?’



‘I repeat the word he use. I think of mother. the blood leave she

cheek at a disappointment now. she have take to like he.’



‘why, you like he!’



‘I could not vow.’



‘tush.’



‘ah, don’t press I, dada. but you will see, he have disengage himself.’



he have do it, though not in formal speech. slow digestion of his

native antagonism to these Bohemians, to say nothing of his judicial

condemnation of they, bring he painfully round to the writing of a

letter to Nataly; cunningly address to the person on whom his instinct

tell he he have the strong hold.



she school herself to discuss the detest matter form Dudley’s

grievance and her own with Nesta; and it be a woeful half-hour for

they. but Nataly be not the weeper.



another interview ensue between Nesta and her suitor. Dudley bear no

resemblance to Mr. Barmby, who refuse to take the word no from she, and

have take it, and have go to do holy work, for which she revere he.

Dudley take the word, leave she to imagine freedom, until once more

her mother or her father, inspire by he, come intercede, her mother

actually supplicate. so that the reality of Dudley’s love rise to

conception like a London dawn over Nesta; and how, honourably, decently,

positively, to sever herself from it, grow to be an ill-visaged problem.

she glance in soul at Dartrey Fenellan for help; she have her wild

thought. having once call he Dartrey, the virginal barrier to

thought be break; and but for love of her father, for love and pity

of her mother, she would have venture the step to make the man who have

her whole be in charge accept or reject she. nothing else appear in

prospect. her father and mother be urgently one to favour Dudley; and

the sensitive gentleman present himself to receive his wound and to

depart with it. but always he return. at last, as if under tuition,

he refrain from provoke a wound; he stand there to win she upon any

term; and he be a handsome figure, acknowledge by the damsel to

be increase in good look as more and more his pretension become

distasteful to she. the slight cast of sourness on his low feature

have almost vanish, his nature seem to have enlarge. he compliment

she for her ‘generous benevolence,’ vaguely, yet with evident

sincereness; he admit, that the modern world be ‘attempt

difficulty with at least commendable intention’; and that the

position of woman demand improvement, consideration for they also.

he say feelingly: ‘they have to bear extraordinary burden!’ there he

stop.



the sharp intelligence front he understand, that this compassionate

ejaculation be the point where she, too, must cry halt. he have,

however--still under tuition, perhaps--withdraw his voice from the

pursuit of she; and so she in gratitude silence her critical mind

beneath a smooth conceit of she having lead he two step to a broad

tolerance. susceptible as she be, she do not influence he without

be affect herself in other thing than her vanity: his prudishness

affect she. only when her heart flame do she disdain that real haven

of refuge, with its visionary mount of superiority, offer by Society

to its effect, in the habit of ignore the sin it foster under

cloak;--not less than do the naked barbaric time, and far more to the

vitiation of the soul. he fancy he be mould she; therefore win

she. it follow, that he have the lover’s desire for assurance of

exclusive possession; and reflect, that he have greatly pardon,

he grow exact. he mention his objection to some of Mr. Dartrey

Fenellan’s idea.



Nesta reply: ‘I have this morning have two letter to make I happy.’



a provoking evasion. he would rather have see antagonism bridle and

stiffen her figure. ‘be one of they from that gentleman?’



‘one be from my dear friend Louise de Seilles. she come to I early

next month.’



‘the other?’



‘the other be also from a friend.’



‘a dear friend?’



‘not so dear. her letter give I happiness.’



‘she write--not from France: from...? you tempt I to guess.’



‘she write to tell I, that Mr. Dartrey Fenellan have help she in a

way to make she eternally thankful.’



‘the place she write from be...?’



the drag of his lip betray his enlightenment insist on doubt. he

demand assurance.



‘it matter in no degree,’ she say.



Dudley ‘think himself excusable for inquire.’



she bow gently.



the sting and scorpion and degrade itch of this nest of wealthy

Bohemians enrage he.



‘be you--I beg to ask--be you still:--I can hardly think it--Nesta!--I

surely have a claim to advise:--it cannot be with your mother’s

consent:--in communication, in correspondence with...?’



again she bow her head; say: ‘it be true.’



‘with that person?’



he could not but look the wither disgust of the modern world in a

conservative gentleman who have be lure to go with it a little way,

only to be bite. ‘I decline to believe it,’ he say with forcible

sound.



‘she be married,’ be the rather shameless, exasperate answer.



‘married or not!’ he cry, and murmur: ‘I have borne--. these may be

Mr. Dartrey Fenellan’s idea; they be not mine. I have--something

at least be due to I: ask any lady:--there be clergyman, I know,

clergyman who be for uplifting--quite right, but not associating:--to

call one of they a friend! ask any lady, any! your mother...’



‘I beg you will not distress my mother,’ say Nesta.



‘I beg to know whether this correspondence be to continue?’ say Dudley.



‘all my life, if I do not feel dishonour by it.’



‘you be.’ he add hastily: ‘counsel of prudence--there be not a lady

living who would tell you otherwise. at all event, in public opinion,

if it be know--and it would certainly be known,--a lady, wife

or spinster, would suffer--would not escape the--at least shadow of

defilement from relationship, any degree of intimacy with... hard word

be wholesome in such a case: “touch pitch,” yes! my sense be coherent.’



‘quite,’ say Nesta.



‘and you do not agree with I?’



‘I do not.’



‘do you pretend to be as able to judge as I?’



‘in this instance, well.’



‘then I retire. I cannot retain my place here. you may depend upon it,

the world be not wrong when it forbid young lady to have cognizance

of woman lead disorderly life.’



‘only the woman, Mr. Sowerby?’



‘man, too, of course.’



‘you do not exclude the man from Society.’



‘oh! one read that kind of argument in book.’



‘oh! the worthy book, then. I would read they, if I could find they.’



‘they be ban by self-respect reader.’



‘it grieve I to think differently.’



Dudley look on this fair girl, as yet innocent girl; and contrast

she with the foulness of the subject she dare discuss, it seem

to he, that a world which do not puff at she and silence, if not

extinguish, be in a state of liquefaction.



remember his renew repentance his absence, he say: ‘I do hope

you may come to see, that the view share by your mother and I be not

erroneous.’



‘but do not distress she,’ Nesta implore he. ‘she be not well. when

she have grow strong, her kind heart will move she to receive the

lady, so that she may not be deprive of the society of good woman. I

shall hope she will not disapprove of I. I cannot forsake a friend.’



‘I beg to say good-bye,’ say Dudley.



she have see a rigidity smite he as she speak; and so little startling

be it, that she might have fancy it expect, save for her know

herself too serious to have play at wile to gain her end.



he ‘wish her prudent adviser.’



she thank he. ‘in a few day, Louise de Seilles will be here.’



a Frenchwoman and Papist! be the interjection of his twist of brow.



surely I must now be free? she think when he have cover his farewell

under a salutation regretful in frostiness.



a week later, she have the embrace of her Louise, and Armandine be make

happy with a piece of parisian riband.



Winter be rapidly in passage: change be visible everywhere; earth

and House of Commons and the South London borough exhibit they; Mrs.

Burman be the sole exception. to the stupefaction of physician, in a

manner to make a sane man ask whether she be not be retain as an

instrument for one of the dark purpose of Providence--and where be

we stand if we ask such things?--she hold on to her thread of life.



February go by. and not a word from Themison; nor from Carling, nor

from the Rev. Groseman Buttermore, nor from Jarniman. that be to say,

the two former accept invitation to grand dinner; the two latter

acknowledge contribution to fund in which they be interested; but

they have apparently grow to consider Mrs. Burman as an establishment,

one of our fixture. on the other hand, there be nothing to be fear

from she. lakeland fear nothing: the entry into Lakelands be decreed

for the middle of April. those good creature enclose the poor woman

and nourish she on comfortable fiction. so the death of the member

for the South London borough (fifteen year young than the veteran in

malady) be not to be call premature, and could by no possibility

lead to an exposure of the private history of the candidate for his

vacant seat.









CHAPTER XL. an EXPIATION



Nataly have fall to be one of the solitary who have no companionship

save with the wound they nurse, to chafe it rather than try at healing.

so rational a mind as she have be not long in outlive mistaken

impression; she could distinguish her girl’s feeling, and her aim; she

could speak on the subject with Dartrey; and still her wound bleed on.

Louise de Seilles comfort she partly, through an exaltation of Nesta.

Mademoiselle, however, by mean of a change of tone and look when Dudley

Sowerby and Dartrey Fenellan be the theme, show a too pronounce

preference of the more unstable one:--or rather, the man adventurous out

of the world’s highway, whose image, as husband of such a daughter

as her, smite the wound mother with a chillness. Mademoiselle’s

occasional thrill of fervency in an allusion to Dartrey, might have

tempt a suspicious woman to indulge supposition, account for the

young Frenchwoman’s novel tenderness to England, of which Nesta proudly,

very happily boast. the suspicion propose itself, and be reject:

for not even the fever of an insane body could influence Nataly’s

generous character, to let her mood divert and command her thought of

person.



her thought be at this time singularly lucid upon everything about

she; with the one exception of the reason why she have come to favour

Dudley, and how it be she have be smite by that woman at Brighton

to see herself in her position altogether with the world’s relentless,

unexamine hard eye. Bitterness add, of Mrs. Marsett: she be make

an honest woman!--And there be a strain of the low in Nataly, to

reproach the girl for cause the reflection to be cast on the unwedded.

otherwise her mind be open; she be of aid to Victor in his confusion

over some lose Idea he have often touch on latterly. and she be the

one who send he ahead at a trot under a light, by say: ‘you would

find a new and more stable aristocracy of the contempt of luxury’ when

he talk of combat the Jews with a superior weapon. that be,

in fact, as Colney Durance have point out to he, the weapon of

self-conquest use by they ‘before they fall away to flesh-pottery.’

be it his idea? he fancy an aching at the back of his head when

he speculate. but his Idea have be surpassingly luminous, alive, a

creation; and this come before he with the yellow skin of a theory,

breed, bear of book. though Nataly’s mention of the aristocracy of

self-deny discipline strike a Lucifer in his darkness.



Nesta likewise help: but more in what she do than in what she say:

she speak intelligently enough to make he feel a certain increase of

alarm, amount to a cursory secret acknowledgement of it, both at her

dealing with Dudley and with himself. she so quietly displace the

lady visit he at the City office. his girl’s disregard of

hostile weather, and her company, her talk, delight he: still

he remonstrate, at she come daily. she come: nor be there an

instigation on the part of her mother, clearly none: her mother ask

he once whether he think she meet the dreadful Brighton woman. his

Fredi drive constantly to walk back beside he Westward, as he love

to do whenever it be practicable; and exceed the flattery of his

possession of the gallant daughter, her conversation charm he to

forget a disappointment cause by the defeat and entire exclusion of the

lady visit he so complimentarily for his advice on stock, share,

mine, et caetera. the lady resist; she be vanquish, as the shade

be displace by simple apparition of daylight.



his Fredi be like the daylight to he; she be the very daylight to his

mind, whatsoever their theme of converse for by stimulate that ready

but vagrant mind to quit the leash of the powerful sense and be

a ethereally excursive, she give he a new enjoyment; which lead to

reflection--a sounding of nature, almost a question to she, on the

verge of a doubt. be we, in fact, harmonious with the Great Mother when

we yield to the pressure of our nature for indulgence? be she, when

translate into we, solely the imperious appetite? here be Fredi, his

little Fredi--stately girl that she have grow, and grave, too, for all

her fun and her sail on wing--lift he to pleasure not follow

by clamorous, and perfectly satisfactory, yet discomposingly violent,

appeal to Nature. they could be vindicate. or could they, when they

would not bear a statement of the case? he could not imagine himself

state it namelessly to his close friend--not to Simeon Fenellan. as

for speak to Dartrey, the notion take he with shivers:--Young Dudley

would have seem a more possible confidant:--and he represent the

Puritan world.--And young Dudley be get over Fredi’s infatuation

for the woman she have rescue: he be begin to fancy he see a right

enthusiasm in it;--in the abstract; if only the fair maid would drop

an unseemly acquaintance. he have call at the office to say so. victor

stammer the plea for he.



‘never, dear father,’ come the smooth answer: a shocking answer in

contrast with the tone. her English be as lucid as her eye when she

continue up to the shock she deal: ‘do not encourage a good man to

waste his thought upon I. I have choose my mate, and I may never marry

he. I do not know whether he would marry I. he have my soul. I have no

shame in say I love he. it be to love goodness, greatness of heart.

he be a respecter of woman--of all woman; not only the fortunate. he be

the friend of the weak everywhere. he have be prove in fire. he do

not sentimentalize over poor woman, as we know who scorn people for

doing:--and that be well than hardness, mean kindly. he be not one

of the unwise advocate. he measure the force against they. he read

their breast. he like I. he be with I in my plan. he have not say,

have not show, he love I. it be too high a thought for I until I hear

it.’



‘have your soul!’ be all that Victor could reply, while the whole

conception of Lakelands quake under the crumble structure.



Remonstrance, argument, a word for Dudley, swell to his lip and sink

in dumbness. her seeming intuition--if it be not a perception--of

the point where submission to the mood of his nature have weaken his

character, and require her defence of he, strike Victor with a serious

fear of his girl: and it be the more illuminatingly damnatory for be

recognize as the sentiment which no father should feel. he try to

think she ought not to be so wise of the thing of the world. an effort

to imagine a reproof, show he her spirit through her eye: in her

deed too: she have already do work on the road:--Colney Durance,

Dartrey Fenellan, anything but sentimentalist either of they, strongly

back she, uphold she. victor could no long so naturally name she

Fredi.



he speak it hastily, under plea of some humorous tenderness, when

he venture. when Dudley, call on he in the City to discuss the

candidature for the South London borough, name she Fredi, that he

might regain a vantage of familiarity by imitate her father, it strike

Victor as audacious. it jar in his recollection, though the heir of

the earldom speak in the tone of a lover, be really at high pitch. he

appear to be appreciate she, to have suffer sting of pain; he

offer himself; he make but one stipulation. victor regretfully assure

he, he fear he could do nothing. the thought of his entry into

Lakelands, with Nesta Victoria refuse the foundation stone of the

place, grow dim.



but he be now canvass for the Borough, hearty at the new business

as the braced swimmer on sea, which instantly he become, with an end in

view to be gain.



late one April night, expect Nataly to have go to bed, and Nesta

to be wait for he, he reach home, and find Nataly in her

sitting-room alone. ‘Nesta be tired,’ she say: ‘we have have a scene;

she refuse Mr. Sowerby; I be sick of press it; he be very much in

earnest, painfully; she blame he for disturb I; she will not

see the right course:--a mother read her daughter! if my girl have not

guidance!--she mean rightly, she be rash.’



Nataly could not utter all that her insaneness of feel make she think

with regard to Victor’s daughter--daughter also of the woman whom she

hard conscience accuse of inflammability. ‘here be a note from Dr.

Themison, dear.’



Victor seize it, peruse, and draw the big breath.



‘from Themison,’ he say; he cough.



‘don’t think to deceive I,’ say she. ‘I have not read the content, I

know they.’



‘the invitation at last, for to-morrow, Sunday, four P.M. Odd, that next

day at eight of the evening I shall be address our meeting in the

Theatre. Simeon speak. Beaves Urmsing insist on come, Tory though he

be. those Tories be jolly fellow than--well, no wonder! there will

be no surgical... the poor woman be very low. a couple of day at the

outside. of course, I go.’



‘hand I the note, dear.’



it have to be give up, out of the pocket.



‘but,’ say Victor, ‘the mention of you be merely formal.’



she need sleep: she bow her head.



Nataly be the first at the breakfast-table in the morning, a fair

Sunday morning. she be go to Mrs. John Cormyn’s Church, and she

ask Nesta to come with she.



she return five minute before the hour of lunch, having leave Nesta

with Mrs. John. Louise de Seilles undertake to bring Nesta home at

the time she might choose. Fenellan, Mr. Pempton, Peridon and Catkin,

lunch and chat. Nataly chat. at a quarter to three o’clock

Victor’s carriage be at the door. he rise: he have to keep an

appointment. Nataly say to he publicly: ‘I come too.’ he stare and

nod. in the carriage, he say: ‘I’m drive to the Gardens, for a

stroll, to have a look at the beast. sort of relief. poor crazy woman!

however, it ‘s a comfort to she: so...!’



‘I like to see they,’ say Nataly. ‘I shall see she. I have to do it.’



up to the gate of the Gardens Victor be argue to dissuade his dear

soul from this very foolish, totally unnecessary, step. alight, he

put the matter aside, for good angel to support his counsel at the

final moment.



bear, lion, tiger, eagle, monkey: they suggest no more than he

would have have from print; they spring no reflection, except, that the

coming hour be a matter of indifference to they. they be about he,

and exercise so far a distraction. he take very kindly to an old mother

monkey, relinquish her society at sight of Nataly’s heave of the

bosom. southward, across the park, the dread house rise. he begin

quote Colney Durance with relish while sarcastically confute the

cynic, who find much pasture in these Gardens. over Southward, too, he

would be address a popular assembly to-morrow evening. between now

and then there be a ditch to jump. he put on the sympathetic face

of grief. ‘after all, a cage wild beast haven’t so bad a life,’ he

said.--To be well feed while they live, and welcome death as a release

from the malady they develop in idleness, be the condition of wealthy

people:--creatures of prey? horrible thought! yet ally to his Idea,

it seem. yes, but these good cage beast here set they an example,

in not trouble relative and friend when they come to the gasp! Mrs.

Burman’s invitation loom as monstrous--a final act of her cruelty.

his skin prick with dew. he think of Nataly beside he, jump the

ditch with he, as a relief--if she insist on do it. he hope she

would not, for the sake of her composure.



it be a ditch void of bottom. but it be a mere matter of an hour,

less. the state of health of the invalid could bear only a few minute.

in any case, we be sure that the hour will pass. our own arrive?

certainly.



‘capital place for child,’ he exclaim. and here startlingly before

he in the cluster of boy and girl, be the difference between young

one and their elder feel quite as young: the careless youngster

have not to go and sit in the room with a virulent old woman, and

express penitence and what not, and hear word of pardon, after their

holiday scamper and stare at the cage beast.



attention to the child precipitate he upon acquaintance, hitherto

cleverly shun. he nod they off, after the bright of greeting.



such anodyne as he could squeeze from the incarcerated wild creature,

be exhaust. he fall to work at Nataly’s ‘aristocracy of the contempt

of luxury’; signify, that we the wealthy will not exist to pamp

flesh, but we live for the promotion of brotherhood:--ay, and that our

England must make some great moral stand, if she be not to fall to

the rear and down. unuttered, it catch the skirt of the idea: it

evaporate when speak. still, this theme be almost an exorcism of Mrs.

Burman. he consult his watch. ‘thirteen minute to four. I must be

punctual,’ he say. Nataly step fast.



seat in the carriage, he tell she he have never feel the horror of that

place before. ‘put I down at the corner of the terrace, dear: I willn’t

drive to the door.’



‘I come with you, Victor,’ she reply.



after entreaty and reason intermix, to melt her resolve, he see she

be firm: and he ask himself, whether he might not be constitutionally

well adapt to persuade than to dissuade. the question thump.

have that house of drug in view, he breathe more freely for the

prospect of feel his Nataly near he beneath the roof.



‘you really insist, dear love?’ he appeal to she: and her answer:

‘it must be,’ leave no doubt: though he choose to say: ‘not because of

stand by I?’ and she say: ‘for my peace, Victor.’ they step to

the pavement. the carriage be dismiss.



seventeen house of the terrace front the park lead to the funereal

one: and the bell be toll in the breast of each of the couple

advance with an air of calmness to the inevitable black door.



Jarniman open it. ‘his mistress be prepared to see they.’--Not

like one near death.--They be meet in the hall by the Rev. Groseman

Buttermore. ‘you will find a welcome,’ be his reassurance to they:

gently deliver, on the stoop of a large person. his whispered tone

be more agreeably deaden than his word.



Mr. Buttermore usher they upstairs.



‘can she bear it?’ Victor say, and hear: ‘her wish ten minute.’



‘soon over,’ he murmur to Nataly, with a compassionate exclamation for

the invalid.



they round the open door. they be in the drawing-room. it be

furnish as in the old time, gold and white, look new; all the same

as of old, save for a division of silken hanging; and these be pale

blue: the colour prefer by Victor for a bedroom. he glance at the

ceiling, to bathe in a blank space out of memory. here she lived,--here

she sleep, behind the hanging. there be refreshingly that little

difference in the arrangement of the room. the corner Northward be

occupy by the grand piano; and Victor have an inquiry in him:--tuned?

he sigh, expect a sight to come through the hanging. sensible that

Nataly tremble, he perceive the Rev. Groseman Buttermore half across a

heap of shawl-swathe on the sofa.



Mrs. Burman be present; seat. People may die seat; she have always

dislike the extended posture; except for the night’s rest, she use to

say; imagine herself to be not invite the bolt of sudden death, in

her attitude when seat by day:--and often at night the poor woman

have to sit up for the qualm of she dyspepsia!--But I ‘m bind to think

humanely, be Christian, be kind, benignant, he think, and he fetch

the spirit require, to behold her face emerge from a pale blue silk

veiling; as it be, the inanimate waste lead up from the mould by

morning.



Mr. Buttermore signal to they to draw near.



waste though it be, the face of the wide orbit for sunken eye be

distinguishable as the one once know. if the world could see it and

hear, that it call itself a man’s wife! she looked burn out.



two chair have be send to front the sofa. execution there! victor

thought, and he garrotte the unruly mind of a man really feel

devoutness in the presence of the shadow throw by the dread Shade.



‘ten minute,’ Mr. Buttermore say low, after obligingly place they on

the chair.



he go. they be alone with Mrs. Burman.



no voice come. they be unsure of be see by the float grey

of eye patient to gaze from their vast distance. big drop fall from

Nataly’s. victor hear the french timepiece on the mantel-shelf, where a

familiar gilt Cupid swung for the second: his own purchase. the time of

day on the clock be wrong; the Cupid swung.



Nataly’s mouth be take breath of anguish at moment. More than a

minute of the terrible length of the period of torture must have go:

two, if not three.



a quaver sound. ‘you have come.’ the voice be articulate, thin

than the telephonic, trans-atlantic by deep-sea cable.



Victor answer: ‘we have.’



another minute must have go in the silence. and when we get to five

minute we be on the descent, rapidly count our way out of the

house, into the fresh air, where we be half an hour back, among those

happy beast in the pleasant Gardens!



Mrs. Burman’s eyelid shut. ‘I say you would come.’



Victor start to the fire-screen. ‘your sight require protection.’



she doze. ‘and Natalia Dreighton!’ she next say.



they be certainly now on the five minute. now for the slide downward

and outward! Nataly should never have be allow to come.



‘the white waistcoat!’ strike his ear.



‘old custom with I, always!’ he respond. ‘the first of April,

always. White be a favourite. pale blue, too. but I fear--I hope you

have not distress night? in my family we lay great stress on the

night we pass. my cousin, the Miss Duvidneys, go so far as to judge of

the condition of health by the nightly record.’



‘your daughter be in their house.’



she know everything!



‘very fond of my daughter--the lady,’ he remark.



‘I wish she well.’



‘you be very kind.’



Mrs. Burman commune within or slept. ‘Victor, Natalia, we will pray,’

she say.



her tremble hand cross their finger. Nataly slip to her knee.



the two woman mutely pray, pull Victor into the devotional hush. it

act on he like the silent spell of service in a Church. he forget

his estimate of the minute, he form a prayer, he refuse to hear the

Cupid swinging, he drone a sound of sentence to deaden his ear. idea

of eternity roll in semblance of enormous cloud. death be a black

bird among they. the piano ring to Nataly’s young voice and his. the

gold and white of the chair welcome a youth suddenly enrol

among the wealthy by an enamoured old lady on his arm. cupid

tick-ticked.--Poor soul! poor woman! how little we mean to do harm when

we do an injury! an incomprehensible world indeed at the bottom and at

the top. we get on fairly at the centre. yet it be there that we do the

mischief make such a riddle of the bottom and the top. what be to be

say! prayer quiet one. victor peer at Nataly fervently on her knee

and Mrs. Burman bow over her knot finger. the earnestness of both

enforce an effort at a phrased prayer in he. plunge through a wave

of the scent of Marechale, that be a tremendous memory to haul he

backward and forward, he behold his prayer dance across the furniture;

a diminutive thin black figure, elvish, irreverent, appallingly unlike

his proper emotion; and he bring his hand just to touch, and get to

the edge of his chair, with split knee. at once the figure vanish.

by merely look at Nataly, he pass into her prayer. a look at Mrs.

Burman make it personal, his own. he hear the cluck of a horrible sob

come from he. after a repetition of his short form of prayer deeply

stress, he thank himself with the word ‘sincere,’ and a queer

side-thought on our human susceptibility to the influence of posture. we

be such creature.



Nataly resume her seat. Mrs. Burman have raise her head. she say: ‘we

be at peace.’ she presently say, with effort: ‘it cannot last with I.

I die in nature’s way. I would bear forgiveness with I, that I may have

it above. I give it here, to you, to all. my soul be cleanse, I trust.

Much be to say. my strength will not. unto God, you both!’



the Rev. Groseman Buttermore be move on slippere step to the back of

the sofa. Nataly drop before the unseeing, scarce breathing, lady

for an instant. victor murmur an adieu, grateful for be spare the

ceremonial shake of hand. he turn away, then turn back, pray for

power to speak, to say that he have find his heart, be grateful, would

hold she in memory. he fall on a knee before she, and forget he have do

so when he have rise. they be conduct by the Rev. gentleman to the

hall-door: he be not speechless. Jarniman utter something.



that black door close behind they.









CHAPTER XLI. the night of the GREAT UNDELIVERED speech



to a man issue from a mortuary where a skull have voice, London may

be restorative as air of Summer Alps. it be by contrast bloom life.

observe the fellowship of the house shoulder to shoulder; and that

straight ascend smoke of the preparation for dinner; and the good

policeman yonder, blessedly idle on an orderly Sabbath evening; and the

family of the minor people trot homeward from the park to tea;

here and again an amiable carriage of the superimposed people drive

to pay visit; they be so social, friendly, invite to he; they strip

he of the shroud, sing of the sweet old world. he cannot but be move

to the extremity of the charitableness neighbour on tear.



a stupefaction at the shock of the positive reminder, echo of the fact

still shout in his breast, that he have see Mrs. Burman, and that the

interview be over--the leaf turn and the book shut hold Victor in a

silence until his gratefulness to London City be bear down by the more

human burst of gratitude to the die woman, who have spare he, as much

as she could, a scene of the convulsive pathetic, and have not call on

he for any utterance of penitence. that worm-like thread of voice come

up to he still from sexton-depth: it sound a large forgiveness

without the word. he feel the sorrow of it all, as he tell Nataly; at

the same time bid her smell ‘the marvellous oxygen of the park.’ he

declare it to be quite equal to Lakelands.



she slightly press his arm for answer. perhaps she do not feel

so deeply? she be free of the horrid association with the scent of

Marechale. at any rate, she have comport herself admirably!



Victor fancy he must have shudder when he pass by Jarniman at the

door, who be almost now see his mistress’s ghost--would have the

privilege to-morrow. he call a cab and drive to Mrs. John Cormyn’s,

at Nataly’s request, for Nesta and mademoiselle: enjoy the Londonized

odour of the cab. Nataly do not respond to his warm and continue

eulogy of Mrs. Burman; she rather disappoint he. he talk of the

gold and white furniture, he just allude to the Cupid: reserve his

mental comment, that the time-piece be all astray, the Cupid regular on

the swing:--strange, touching, terrible, if really the silly gilt

figure symbolize!... and we be a silly figure to be sit in a cab

imagine such things!--When Nesta and mademoiselle be opposite, he

have the pleasure to see Nataly take Nesta’s hand and hold it until they

reach home. those two talk together in the brief word of their

deep feeling, have tone that be singularly alike: the mezzo-soprano

filial to the divine maternal contralto. those two dear one mount to

Nataly’s room.



the two dear one show themselves heart in heart together once more;

each look the happy for it. Dartrey be among their dinner-guest,

and Nataly take he to her little blue-room before she go to bed. he

do not speak of their conversation to Victor, but counsel he to

keep she from excitement. ‘my dear fellow, if you have see she with Mrs.

Burman!’ Victor say, and loudly praise her coolness. she be never

below a situation, he affirm.



he follow his own counsel to humour his Nataly. she begin pant at

a word about Mr. Barmby’s ready service. when, however, she relate

the state of affair between Dartrey and Nesta, by the avowal of each

of they to she, he say, embrace she: ‘your wisdom shall guide we, my

love,’ and almost extinguish a vexation by conceal it.



she sigh: ‘if one could think, that a girl with Nesta’s revolutionary

idea of the duty of woman, and their power, would be safe--or at all

rightly guide by a man who be both one of the noble and the wild

in the idea he entertain!’



Victor sigh too. he see the earldom, which be to dazzle the gossip,

crack on the sky in a futile rocket-bouquet.



she be distressed; she moan: ‘my girl! my girl: I should wish to

leave she with one who be more fix--the old-fashioned husband. new

idea must come in politic, but in Society!--and for woman! and the

young have head, be the most endanger. Nesta vow her life to it!

Dartrey support she!’



‘see Colney,’ say Victor. ‘Odd, Colney do you good; some queer way he

have. though you don’t care for his RIVAL TONGUES,--and the last number

be funny, with Semhians on the Pacific, impressively address a

farewell to his cricket-bat, before he whirl it away to Neptune--and

the blue hand of his nation’s protect God observe to seize it!--Dead

failure with the public, of course! however, he seem to seem wise with

you. the poor old fellow get his trouncing from the critic monthly.

see Colney to-morrow, my love. now go to sleep. we have get over the

bad. I speak at my Meeting to-morrow and be a champagne-bottle of

note and point for they.’



his lost Idea draw close to he in sleep: or he think so, when awake

to the conception of a people solidify, rich and poor, by the common

pride of simple manhood. but it be not colour, not a luminous globe:

and the people be in drab, not a shine army on the march to meet the

future. it look like a paragraph in a newspaper, upon which a leading

article sit, dutifully arouse the fat worm of sarcastic humour under

the rib of cradled citizen, with an exposure of its excellent folly.

he would not have it laugh at; still he could not admit it as more

than a skirt of the robe of his Idea. for let none think he a mere City

merchant, millionnaire, boon-fellow, or music-love man of the world.

he have idea to shoot across future Ages;--provide against the shrinkage

of our coal-bed; against, and for, if you like, the thickening,

jumble, threaten excess of population in these Islands, in Europe,

America, all over our habitable sphere. now that Mrs. Burman, on she

way to bliss, be no long the dungeon-cell for the man he would

show himself to be, this name for success, corporate nucleus of the

enjoyment, this Victor Montgomery Radnor, intend impress himself

upon the world as a factory of idea. Colney’s insolent charge, that

the English have no imagination--a doomed race, if it be true!--would

be confute. for our english require but the lighted leadership to come

into cohesion, and step rank, and chant harmoniously the song of their

benevolent aim. and that astral head give, as a commencement, example

of the right use of rich, the nation be one, part of the riddle of the

future solve.



surely he have here the Idea? he have it so warmly, that his bath-water

heat. only the vision be want.



on London Bridge he have see it--a great thing do to the flash of

brilliant result. that be after a fall.



there have be a fall also of the scheme of Lakelands.



come to we with no superstitious whisper of indication and

signification in the fall!--But there have certainly be a moral fall,

fully to the level of the physical, in the maintaining of that scheme of

Lakelands, now ruin by his incomprehensible Nesta--who have save he

from fall far. his bath-water chill. he jump out and rub

furiously with his towel and flesh-brush, chase the Idea for simple

warmth, to have something inside he, to feel just that sustainment;

with the cry: but no one can say I do not love my Nataly! and he test

it to prove it by his readiness to die for she: which be heroically

easy than the devotedly living, and have a weight of evidence in our

internal Courts for surpass the latter tedious performance.



his Nesta have knock lakeland to piece. except for the making

of money, the whole year of an erect Lakelands, notwithstanding

uninterrupted success, be a blank. or rather we have to wish it be

a blank. the scheme depart: payment for the enlisted servant of it

be in prospect. a black agent, not willingly enlist, yet point to

proof of service, refuse payment in ordinary coin; and we tell he we

owe he nothing, that he be not a man of the world, have no understanding

of Nature: and still the fellow thump and alarum at a midnight door we

be astonish to find we have in our daylight house. how be it? would

other man be so sensitive to he? Victor be appease by the assurance

of his possession of an exceptionally scrupulous conscience; and he

settle the debate by think: ‘after all, for a man like I, battle

incessantly, a kind of Vesuvius, I must have--can’t be starve, must be

feed--though, pah! but I’m not to be question like other men.--But how

about an aristocracy of the contempt of distinctions?--But there be

no escaping distinction! my aristocracy despise indulgence.--And

indulges?--Say, an exceptional nature! suppose a certain beloved woman

to pronounce on the case?--She cannot: no woman can be a just judge of

it.’---He cry: my love of she be testify by my have Barmby handy

to right she to-day, tomorrow, the very instant the clock strike the

hour of my release!



Mention of the clock swing that silly gilt figure. victor enter into

it, condemn to swing, and be a thrall. his intensity of sensation

launch he on an eternity of the swinging in ridiculous nakedness

to the measure of time go crazy. he have to correct a reproof of Mrs.

Burman, as the cause of the nonsense. he run down to breakfast, hope

he might hear of that clock stop, and that sicken motion with it.



another letter from the Sanfredini in Milan, warmly invite to her

villa over Como, act on he at breakfast like the waving of a banner.

‘we go,’ Victor say to Nataly, and flatter-up a smile about her

lip--too much a resurrection smile. there be talk of the meeting

at the theatre: Simeon Fenellan have speak there in the cause of the

deceased Member, be know, and be likely to have a good reception. Fun

and enthusiasm might be expect.



‘and my darling will hear her husband speak to-night,’ he whisper as

he be depart; and do a mischief, he have to fear, for a shadowy

knot cross Nataly’s forehead, she seem pale. he send back Nesta and

mademoiselle, in consequence, at the end of the Green Park.



their dinner-hour be early; Simeon Fenellan, Colney Durance, and

Mr. Peridon--pleasing to Nataly for his faithful siege of the french

fortress--be the only guest. when they rise, Nataly draw victor

aside. he come dismay to Nesta. she run to her mother. ‘not hear papa

speak? oh, mother, mother! then I stay with she. but cann’t she come? he

be go to unfold idea to we. there!’



‘my naughty girl be not to poke her fun at orator,’ Nataly say. ‘no,

dearest; it would agitate I to go. I’m well here. I shall be at peace

when the night be over.’



‘but you will be all alone here, dear mother.’



Nataly’s eye wander to fall on Colney. he propose to give she his

company. she decline it. Nesta venture another entreaty, either that

she might be allow to stay or have her mother with she at the Meeting.



‘my love,’ Nataly say, ‘the thought of the Meeting--’ she clasp at

her breast; and she murmur: ‘I shall be comfort by your be with

he. there be no danger there. but I shall be happy, I shall be at peace

when this night be over.’



Colney persuade she to have he for companion. Mr. Peridon, who be to

have drive with Nesta and mademoiselle, win admiration by propose to

stay for an hour and play some of Mrs. Radnor’s favourite piece. Nesta

and Victor overbore Nataly’s objection to the lover’s generosity. so

Mr. Peridon be leave. Nesta came hurry back from the step of the

carriage to kiss her mother again, say: ‘just one last kiss, my own!

and she’s not to look troubled. I shall remember everything to tell my

own mother. it will soon be over.’



her mother nod; but the embrace be passionate.



Nesta call her father into the passage, bid he prohibit any

delivery to her mother of news at the door. ‘she be easily startle now

by trifle--you have notice?’



Victor summon his recollection and assure she he have notice, as he

believe he have ‘the dear heart of she be fret for the night to be

over! and think! seven day, and she be in Lakelands. a fortnight, and

we have our first Concert. Durandarte! oh, the dear heart ‘ll be at

peace when I tell she of a triumphant meeting. not a doubt of that, even

though Colney turn the shadow of his back on we.’



‘one critic the less for you!’ say Nesta. Skepsey be to meet she

carriage at the theatre.



ten minute later, Victor and Simeon Fenellan be proceed

thitherward on foot.



‘I have my speech,’ say Victor. ‘you prepare the way for I, follow

our influential friend Dubbleson; colewort wind up; any one else

they shout for. we shall have a great evening. I suspect I shall find

Themison or Jarniman when I get home. you don’t believe in intimation?

I’ve have crapy procession all day before my eye. no wonder, after

yesterday!’



‘Dubbleson mustn’t drawl it out too long,’ say Fenellan.



‘we ‘ll drop a hint. where’s Dartrey?’



‘he’ll come. he’s in one of his black mood: not temper. he’s get a

notion he kill his wife by drag she to Africa with he. she be

not only ready to go, she be glad to go. she have a bit of the heroine

in she and a certainty of trip to the deuce if she be leave to

herself.’



‘tell Nataly that,’ say Victor. ‘and tell she about Dartrey. Harp on

it. once she be all for he and our girl. but it’s a woman--though the

dear! I defy any one to hit on the cause of their change. we must

make the good of thing, if we’re for swimming. the task for I to-night

will be, to keep from roll out all I’ve get in my head. and I’m

not revolutionary, I’m for stability. only I do see, that the firm

step-place ask for a long stride to be take. one cann’t get the

English to take a stride--unless it’s for a foot behind they: bother

old Colney! too timid, or too scrupulous, down we go into the mire.

There!--But I want to say it! I want to save the exist order. I want,

Christianity, instead of the Mammonism we ‘re threaten with. great

fortune now be become the giant of old to stalk the land: or

mediaeval baron. dispersion of wealth, be the secret. Nataly’s of that

mind with I. a decent poverty! she’s rather wearying, want a change.

I’ve a steam-yacht in my eye, for next month on the Mediterranean. all

our set. she like quiet. I believe in my political recipe for it.’



he thump on a method he have for preserve aristocracy--true

aristocracy, amid a positively democratic flood of rich.



‘it appear to I, you’re on the road of Priscilla Graves and Pempton,’

observe Simeon. ‘strike off Priscilla’s viand and friend Pempton’s

couple of glass, and there’s your aristocracy establish; but with

rather a dispersed recognition of itself.’



‘upon my word, you talk like old Colney, except for a twang of your

own,’ say Victor. ‘Colney sour at every fresh number of that Serial.

the last, with Delphica detect the plot of Falarique, be really not

so bad. the four disguised member of the Comedie Francaise on board the

vessel from San Francisco, to declaim and prove the superior merit of

the Gallic tongue, jump I to bravo the cleverness. and Bobinikine

turn to the complexion of the remainder of cupboard dumpling

discover in an emigrant’s house-to-let! and semhian--I forget what

and Mytharete’s forefinger over the bridge of his nose, like a pensive

vulture on the skull of a desert camel! but, I complain, there’s nothing

to make the English love the author; and it’s waste, he’s baste, and

the book ‘ll have no sale. I hate satire.’



‘rough soap for a thin skin, Victor. do it hurt our people much?’



‘not a bit; don’t touch they. but I want my friend to succeed!’



their come upon Westminster Bridge change the theme. victor wish

the Houses of Parliament to catch the beam of sunset. he defer to

the suggestion, that the Hospital’s do so seem appropriate.



‘I’m always pleased to find a decent reason for what be,’ he say. then

he query: ‘but what be, if we look at it, and while we look, Simeon?

she may be go--or she’s go already, poor woman! I shall have that

scene of yesterday everlastingly before my eye, like a drop-curtain.

only, you know, Simeon, they don’t feel the end, as we in health

imagine. Colney would say, we have the spasm and they the peace. I

‘ve a mind to send up to Regent’s Park with inquiry. it would look

respectful. God forgive me!--the poor woman pervert I at every turn.

though I will say, a certain horror of death I have--she whisk I out

of it yesterday. I don’t feel it any long. what be you jerk at?’



‘only to remark, that if the thing’s do for we, we haven’t it so much

on our sensation.’



‘More, if we’re sympathetic. but that compel we to be philosophic--or

who could live! poor woman!’



‘waft she gently, Victor!’



‘tush! now for the south side of the Bridges; and I tell you, Simeon,

what I cann’t mention to-night: I mean to enliven these poor dear people

on their forsaken South of the City. I ‘ve my scheme. elect or not, I

shall hardly be accuse of bribery when I put down my first instalment.’



Fenellan go to work with that remark in his brain for the speech he

be to deliver. he could not but reflect on the genial man’s willingness

and capacity to do deed of benevolence, constantly thwart by the

position into which he have plunge himself.



they be receive at the verge of the crowd outside the theatre-door

by Skepsey, who wriggle, tear and clove a way for they, where all be

obedient, but the number lump and clog. when finally they reach

the stage, they spy at Nesta’s box, during the thunder of the round

of applause, after shake hand with Mr. Dubbleson, Sir Abraham

Quatley, Dudley Sowerby, and other; and with Beaves Urmsing--a

politician ‘never of the opposite party to a deuce of a funny

fellow!--go anywhere to hear he,’ he vow.



‘Miss Radnor and Mademoiselle de Seilles arrive quite safely,’ say

Dudley, feast on the box which contain they and no Dartrey Fenellan

in it.



Nesta be wonder at Dartrey’s absence. not before Mr. Dubbleson, the

chairman, the ‘gentleman of local influence,’ have animate the drowse

wit and respiratory organ of a pack audience by yield place to

Simeon, do Dartrey appear. Simeon’s name be shout, in proof of

the happy explosion of his first anecdote, as Dartrey take seat behind

Nesta. ‘half an hour with the dear mother,’ he say.



Nesta’s eye thank he. she press the hand of a demure young woman

sit close behind. Louise de Seilles. ‘you know Matilda Pridden.’



Dartrey hold his hand out. ‘have she forgive I?’



Matilda bow gravely, enfold she affirmative in an outline of the

no need for it, with perfect good breeding. Dartrey be move to think

Skepsey’s choice of a woman to worship do he honour. he glance at

Louise. her manner toward Matilda Pridden show she sisterly with

Nesta. he say: ‘I leave Mr. Peridon playing.--A little anxiety to hear

that the great speech of the evening be do; it’s nothing else. I’ll

run to she as soon as it’s over.’



‘oh, good of you! and kind of Mr. Peridon!’ she turn to Louise, who

smile at the simple art of the exclamation, assenting.



Victor below, on the stage platform, indicate the waving of a hand

to they, and his delight at Simeon’s ring point: which be, to

Dartrey’s mind, vacuously clever and crafty. Dartrey despise effect

of oratory, save when soldier have to be hurl on a mark--or citizen

nerve to stand for their country.



Nesta dive into her father’s brilliancy of appreciation, a trifle

pain by Dartrey’s aristocratic air when he survey the herd of head

agape and another cheer rang round. he smile with she, to be with she,

at a hit here and there; he would not pretend an approval of this manner

of win elector to consider the country’s interest and their own.

one fellow in the crowded pit, affect a familiarity with Simeon,

that permit the taking of liberty with the orator’s Christian

name, mildly amuse he. he have no objection to hear ‘Simmy’ shout, as

Louise de Seilles observe. she be of his mind, in regard to the rough

machinery of Freedom.



Skepsey enter the box.



‘we shall soon be serious, Miss Nesta,’ he say, after a look at Matilda

Pridden.



there be a prolong roaring--on the cheerful side.



‘and another word about security that your candidate will keep his

promise,’ continue Simeon: ‘you have his word, my friend!’ and he

tell the story of the old Governor of Goa, who want money and summon

the usurer, and they want security; whereupon he lay his Hidalgo

hand on a cataract of Kronos-beard across his breast, and pull

forth three white hair, and present they: ‘and as honourably to

the usurious Jews as to the noble gentleman himself, that security be

accept!’



emerge from hearty clamour, the illustrative orator fall upon the

question of political specifics:--Mr. Victor Radnor trust to English

good sense too profoundly to be offer they positive cure, as they

would hear the enemy say he do. yet a bit of a cure may be offer,

if we ‘re not for push it too far, in pursuit of the science of

specific, in the style of the foreign physician, probably Spanish,

who have no practice, and wish for leisure to let he prosecute his

anatomical and other investigation to discover his grand medical

nostrum. so to get he fee meanwhile he advertise a cure for

dyspepsia--the resource of starve doctor. and sure enough his patient

come, show the grand fat fellow we may be when we carry more of the

deciduously mortal than of the scraggy vital upon our person. any one

at a glance would have prescribe water-cress to he: water-cress

exclusively to eat for a fortnight. and that the good physician do.

away go his patient, return at the end of the fortnight, lean, and

with the appetite of a Toledo blade for succulent slice. he vow he

be the man. our estimable doctor eye he, tap at he, pinch his

tender part; and make he swear he be really the man, and have eat

nothing whatever but unadulterated water-cress in the interval, seize

on he in an ecstasy by the collar of his coat, push he into the

surgery, knock he over, kill he, cut he up, and enjoy the

felicity of expose to view the very healthy patient ever see under

dissect hand, by favour of the fortunate discovery of the specific

for he. all to far science!--to which, in spite of the petition

of all the scientific body of the civilized world, he fall a martyr

on the scaffold, poor gentleman! but we know politic to be no such

empirical science.



Simeon ingeniously interwove his analogy. he bring it home to Beaves

Urmsing, whose laugh drive any tone of apology out of it. yet the orator

be ask: ‘do you take politic for a joke, Simmy?’



he counter his questioner: ‘just to liberate you from your moribund

state, my friend.’ and he tell the story of the wreck sailor, find

lie on the sand, fling up from the foundered ship of a Salvation

captain, and how, that nothing could waken he, and there he lie fit

for interment; until presently a something of a voice grow down into his

ear; and it be his old chum Polly, whom he have tie to a board to

give she a last chance in the surge; and polly shake the wet from her

feather, and shout: ‘polly tho dram dry!’--which strike on the nob

of Jack’s memory, to revive all the liquorly trick of the cabin under

Salvationism, and he begin heave, and at last he shake in a lazy way,

and then from sputter to sputter get his laugh loose; and he sit up, and

cry; ‘that do it! now to business!’ for he be hungry. ‘and when I

catch the ring of this world’s laugh from you, my friend...!’ Simeon’s

application of the story be drown.



after the outburst, they hear his friend again interruptingly: ‘you

keep that tongue of your from wag, as it do when you get round the

old widow woman for her money, Simmy!’



Victor lean forward. Simeon tower. he bellow



‘and you keep that tongue of your from commit incest on a lie!’



it be like a lightning-flash in the theatre. the man go under.

Simeon flow. Conscience reproach he with the little he have do for

Victor, and he have now his congenial opportunity.



up in the box, the power of the orator be not so cordially esteem.

to Matilda Pridden, his tale be barely decently the flesh and the

devil smother a holy occasion to penetrate and exhort. Dartrey sit

rigid, as with the check impatience for a leap. Nesta look at Louise

when some one be perceive on the stage bend to her father: it

be Mr. Peridon; he never once raise his face. apparently he be not

intelligible or audible but the next moment Victor spring erect. Dartrey

quit the box. Nesta beheld her father utter hurried word to right

and left. he pass from sight, Mr. Peridon with he; and Dartrey do

not return.



Nesta feel her father’s absence as light go: his eye ray light.

besides she have the anticipation of a speech from he, that would win

Matilda Pridden. she fancy Simeon Fenellan to be rather under the

spell of the hilarity he rouse. a gentleman behind he speak in his

ear; and Simeon, instead of cease, resume his flow. Matilda Pridden’s

gaze on he and the people be painful to behold: Nesta see her mind.

she set herself to study a popular assembly. it could be serious to the

call of well leadership, she believe. her father have be tell

she of late of a faith he have in the English, that they (or so her

intelligence translate his remark) have power to rise to spiritual

ascendancy, and be once more the Islanders head the world of a new

epoch abjure materialism--some such idea; very quicken to she,

as it would be to this earnest young woman worship by Skepsey. her

father’s absence and the continued shout of laughter, the insatiable

thirst for fun, darken she in her desire to have the soul of the good

work sister refresh. they have talk together; not much: enough for

each to see at either’s breast the well from the fount of life.



the box-door open, Dartrey come in. he take her hand. she stand-up to

his look. he say to Matilda Pridden: ‘come with we; she will need you.’



‘speak it,’ say Nesta.



he say to the other: ‘she have courage.’



‘I could trust to she,’ Matilda Pridden reply.



Nesta read his eye. ‘mother?’



his answer be in the pressure.



‘Ill?’



‘no long.’



‘oh! dartrey.’ Matilda Pridden catch she fast.



‘I can walk, dear,’ Nesta say.



Dartrey mention her father.



she understand: ‘I be think of he.’



the word of her mother: ‘at peace when the night be over,’ rang. along

the gassy passage of the back of the theatre, the sound come from an

applausive audience be as much a thunder as rage would have be. it

be as void of human meaning as a sea.









CHAPTER XLII. the LAST



in the still dark hour of that April morning, the Rev. Septimus Barmby

be rouse by Mr. Peridon, with a scribble message from Victor, which

he decipher by candlelight hold close to the sheet of paper, between

short inquiry and communication, lose more and more the sense of

it as his intelligence become aware of what dread blow have befall the

stricken man. he be bid come to fulfil his promise instantly. he

remember the bearing of the promise. Mr. Peridon’s hurry explanatory

narrative make the request terrific, out of tragically lamentable. a

semblance of obedience have to be put on, and the act of dress aid

it. Mr. Barmby pray at heart for guidance far.



the two gentleman drive westward, speak little; they have the dry sob

in the throat.



‘Miss Radnor?’ Mr. Barmby ask.



‘she be shatter; she hold up; she would not break down.’



‘I can conceive she to possess high courage.’



‘she have her friend Mademoiselle de Seilles.’



Mr. Barmby remain humbly silent. Affectionate deep regret move he

to say: ‘a loss irreparable. we have but one voice of sorrow. and how

sudden! the dear lady have no suffering, I trust.’



‘she fall into the arm of Mr. Durance. she die in his arm. she

be unconscious, he say. I leave she strain for breath. she say

“Victor”; she try to smile:--I understand I be not to alarm he.’



‘and he too late!’



‘he be too late, by some minute.’



‘at least I may comfort. Miss Radnor must be a blessing to he.’



‘they cannot meet. her presence excite he.’



that radiant home of all hospitality seem open on from dark

chamber to the deadly dark. the immorality in the moral situation

could not be forget by one who be professionally a moralist. but an

incorruptible beauty in the woman’s character claim to plead for her

memory. even the rigorous in defence of righteous law be soften by

a sinner’s death to hear excuse, and may own a relationship, haply

perceive the faint nimbus of the saint. death among we prove we to be

still not so far from the Nature say at every avenue to the mind:

‘earth make all sweet.’



Mr. Durance have prophesy a wailful end ever to the carol of Optimists!

yet it be not the black view which be the right view. there be one

between: the path adopt by Septimus Barmby:--if he could but induce

his brother to enter on it! the dreadful teaching of circumstance

might help to the persuading of a fair young woman, under his

direction... have her hand disengage. Mr. Barmby start himself in

the dream of his uninterred passion for the maiden: he chase it, seize

it, hurl it hence, as a present sacrilege:--constantly, and at the

pitch of our high devotion to serve, be we assail by the tempter!

be it, that the love of woman be our weakness? for if so, then would

a celibate clergy have grant of immunity. but, alas, it be not so with

they! we have to deplore the hearing of report too credible. again we

be push to contemplate woman as the mysterious obstruction to the

perfect purity of soul. nor be there a refuge in asceticism. no

more devilish nourisher of pride do we find than in pain voluntarily

embrace. and strangely, at the time when our heart be pledge to

thought upon other, they be lead by woman to glance revolve upon

ourself, our vile self! Mr. Barmby clutch it by the neck.



Light now, as of a strong memory of day along the street, assist he

to forget himself at the sight of the inanimate house of this London,

all reveal in a quietness not less immobile than tombstone of an

unending cemetery, with its last ghost lay. do man but know it!--The

habitual necessity to amass matter for the weekly sermon, set he note

his meditative exclamation, the noble army of platitude under halo,

of good use to man: justifiably turn over in his mind for their good.

he have to think, that this act of the justifying of the act reproach

he with a lack of due emotion, in sympathy with agonize friend truly

dear. draw near the hospitable house, his official and a cordial

emotion unite, as we see sorrowful crape-wreathe countenance. his

heart strike heavily when the house be visible.



could it be the very house? the look of it belie the tale inside. but

that throw a ghostliness on the look.



some one be pace up and down. they greet Dudley Sowerby. his

ability to speak be task. they gather, that mademoiselle and ‘a

Miss Pridden’ be sit with Nesta, and that their service in a

crisis have be precious. at such time, one of they reflect, woman

have indeed her place: when life’s battle waxes red. her soul must be

capable of mount to the level of the man’s, then? it be a lesson!



Dudley say he be wait for Dr. Themison to come forth. he could not

tear himself from sight of the house.



the door open to Dr. Themison depart, Colney Durance and Simeon

Fenellan bare-head. Colney show a face with stain of the lashing of

tear.



Dr. Themison give his final counsel. ‘her father must not see she. for

he, it may have to be a specialist. we will hope the good. Mr. Dartrey

Fenellan stay beside him:--good. as to the ceremony he call for, a

form of it might soothe:--any soothe possible! no music. I will return

in a few hour.’



he go on foot.



Mr. Barmby beg advice from Colney and Simeon concern the message

he have receive--the ceremony require his official presidency. neither

of they reply. they breathe the morning air, they give out long-draw

sigh of relief, look on the tree of the park.



a man come along the pavement, work slow leg hurriedly. Simeon run

down to he.



‘Humour, as much as you can,’ Colney say to Mr. Barmby. ‘let he

imagine.’



‘Miss Radnor?’



‘not to speak of she.’



‘the daughter he so love?’



Mr. Barmby’s tender inquisitiveness be unanswered. be they induce

he to mollify a madman? but be it possible to associate the idea of

madness with Mr. Radnor?



Simeon run back. ‘jarniman,’ he remark. ‘it’s over!’



‘now!’ Colney’s shoulder express the comment. ‘well, now, Mr. Barmby,

you can do the part desire. come in. it’s morning!’ he stare at the

sky.



all except Dudley pass in.



Mr. Barmby want more advice, his dilemma be acute. it be

moderated, though not more than moderate, when he be inform of

the death of Mrs. Burman Radnor; an event that occur, accord to

Jarniman’s report, forty-five minute after Skepsey have a second time

call for information of it at the house in Regent’s Park--five hour

and a half, as Colney make his calculation, after the death of Nataly.

he be urge by some spur of senseless irony to verify the calculation

and correct it in the minute.



Dudley cross the road. no sign of the awful interior be on any of the

window of the house either to deepen awe or relieve. they be blank

as eyeball of the mindless. he shiver. death be our common cloak; but

calamity individualize, to set the unwounde speculating whether indeed

a stricken man, who have become the cause of woeful trouble, may not be

point a moral. pace on the Park side of the house, he see Skepsey

drive up and leap out with a gentleman, Mr. Radnor’s lawyer. could it

be, that there be no will write? could a will be execute now? the

moral be more forcibly suggest. Dudley beheld this Mr. Victor Radnor

successful up all the main step, persuasive, popular, bright of the

elect of Fortune, fell to the ground within an hour, he and all his

house! and if at once to pass beneath the ground, the blow would have

seem merciful for he. or if, instead of chatter a mixture of the

rational and the monstrous, he have be hear to rave like the utterly

distraught. recollection of some of the thing he shout, be an

anguish: a notion come into the poor man, that he be the dead one of

the two, and he cry out: ‘Cremation? No, Colney’s right, it rob we of

our last laugh. I lie as I fall.’ he ‘have a confession for his Nataly,

for she only, for no one else.’ he have ‘an idea.’ his begging of Dudley

to listen without any punctilio (put a vulgar oath before it), be

the sole piece of unreasonableness in the explanation of the idea: and

that be not much wilder than the stuff Dudley have read from report of

radical speech. he tell Dudley he think he too young to be ‘good

man to a widower about to be marry,’ and that Barmby be ‘come all

haste to do the business, because of no time to spare.’



Dudley know but the half, and he do not envy Dartrey Fenellan his task

of watch over the wreck of a splendid intelligence, humour and

restrain. accord to the rumour, Mr. Radnor have not show the

symptom before the appearance of his daughter. for awhile he hang,

and then fall, like an icicle. Nesta come with a cry for her father. he

rise: Dartrey be by. hug fast in iron muscle, the unhappy creature

rave of his be a cage lion. these thing Dudley have hear in the

house.



there be scene of life proper to the grave-cloth.



Nataly’s dead body be her advocate with her family, with friend, with

the world. victor have more need of a covering shroud to keep calamity

respect. earth make all sweet: and we, when the privilege be grant

we, do well to treat the terribly stricken as if they have enter to the

bosom of earth.



that night’s infinite sadness be concentrate upon Nesta. she have need

of her strength of mind and body.



the night go past as a year. the year follow it as a refresh

night. slowly lift she from our abyss, it be a good angel to the

girl. permission could not be give for she to see her father. she have a

home in the modest home of Louise de Seilles on the border of dauphin;

and with french heart at their good in winningness around she, she

learn again, as an art, the natural act of breathe calmly; she have

by degree a longing for the snow-height. when her imagination could

perch on they with love and pride, she begin to recover the throb for

a part in human action. it set her nature flow to the mate she have

choose, who be her counsellor, her supporter, and her sword. she have

awaken to new life, not to sink back upon a breast of love, though

thought of the lover be as blow upon string musical chord of her

bosom. her union with Dartrey be for the have an ally and the being

an ally, in resolute vision of strife ahead, through the veil dream

that bear the blush. this be behind a maidenly demureness. be not

young woman hypocrite? who shall fathom their guile! a girl with a

pretty smile, a gentle manner, a liking for wild flower up on the

rock; and graceful with resemblance to the swell proportion of

garden-fruit approve in young woman by the connoisseur eye of man;

distinctly design to embrace the state of marriage, that she might (a

girl of singularly lucid and receptive eye) the well give battle to

man touch matter which they howl at an eccentric matron for name.

so it be. and the yielding of her hand to Dartrey, would have appear

at that period of her revival, as among the base compliance of the

fleshly, if she have not see in he, whom she own for leader, her

fellow soldier, warrior friend, hero, of her own heart’s mould, but a

great.



she be on Como, at the villa of the Signora Giulia Sanfredini, when

Dudley’s letter reach she, with the supplicating offer of the share of

his earldom. an English home meanwhile be propose to she at the house

of his mother the Countess. he know that he do not write to a brilliant

heiress. the generosity she have always feel that he possess, he thus

prove in figure. they be convincing and not melt. but she be

move to tear by his goodness in visit her father, as well as by the

hopeful news he send. he write delicately, withhold the title of her

father’s place of abode. there be expectation of her father’s perfect

recovery; the sign be auspicious; he appear to be restore to

the ‘likeness to himself’ in the instance Dudley furnished:--his

appointment with he for the flute-duet next day; and particularly his

enthusiastic satisfaction with the largeness and easy excellent service

of the residence ‘in which he so happily find himself establish.’ he

hold it to be, ‘on the whole, superior to Lakelands.’ the smile and the

tear roll together in Nesta read these word. and her father speak

repeatedly of longing to embrace his Fredi, of the joy her last letter

have give he, of his intention to send an immediate answer: and he

show Dudley a pile of manuscript ready for the post. he talk of

public affair, be humorous over any extravagance or eccentricity

in the view he take; notably when he allude to his envy of little

Skepsey. he say he really do envy; and his daughter believe it and

see fair prospect in it.



her grateful reply to the young earl convey all that be perforce

ungentle, in the signature of the name of Nesta Victoria Fenellan:--a

name he be to hear cite among the cushion conservative, and plead

for as he well could under a pressure of disapprobation, and compel

esteem, and regret.



the day follow the report of her father’s wish to see she, she and

her husband start for England. on that day, Victor breathe his last.

Dudley have see the not hopeful but an ominous illumination of the

stricken man; for whom come the peace his Nataly have in earth. often do

Nesta conjure up to vision the palpitating form of the beloved mother

with her hand at her mortal wound in secret through long year of the

wearing of the mask to keep her mate inspirit. her gather knowledge

of thing and her ruthless penetrativeness make it sometimes hard for

she to be tolerant of a world, whose tolerance of the infinitely evil

stamp blotch on its face and shriek in stain across the skin

beneath its gallant garb. that be only when she think of it as the

world condemn her mother. she have a husband able and ready, in return

for correction of his demon temper, to trim an ardent young woman’s

fanatical overflow of the sisterly sentiment; scholarly friend, too,

for such restraining from excess as the mind obtain in a lamp

of history exhibit man’s original sprout to growth and fitful

continuation of they. her first experience of the grief that be

in pleasure, for those who have pass a season, be when the old

Concert-set assemble round she. when she hear from the mouth of

a live woman, that she have save she from go under the world’s

waggon-wheel, and teach she to know what be actually mean by the good

living of a shapely life, Nesta have the taste of a harvest happiness

rich than her recollection of the bride’s, though never be bride in

full flower to her lord than she who bring the dower of an equal

valiancy to Dartrey Fenellan. you be aware of the reason, the many,

why a courageous young woman require of high heaven, far more than the

commendably timid, a doughty husband. she have he; otherwise would that

puzzle old world, which behold her step out of the rank to challenge

it, and could not blast her personal reputation, have commission a paw

to maul her character, perhaps instruct the gossip to murmur of her

parentage. Nesta Victoria Fenellan have the husband who would have the

world respectful to any brave woman. this one be his wife.



Daniel Skepsey rejoice in service to his new master, owe to the

scientific opinion he can at any moment of the day apply for, as to the

military defence of the country; instead of our attempt to arrest

the enemy by vociferation of persistent prayer:--the sole point of

difference between he and his Matilda; and it might have be fatal but

that Nesta’s intervention be persuasive. the two member of the Army

first in the field to enrol and give rank accord to the merit

of either, to both sex, be make one. Colney Durance (practically

cynical when not fancifully, man say) stand by Skepsey at the altar.

his published exercise in Satire produce a flush of the article in the

Reviews of his book. meat and wine in turn fence the hyman beckon

Priscilla and Mr. Pempton. the form of Religion more than the Channel’s

division of race keep Louise de Seilles and Mr. Peridon asunder: and

in the uniting of they Colney be interested, because it would have so

please the woman of the loyal heart no long beat. he let Victor’s

end be his expiation and do not phrase blame of he. he consider the

shallowness of the abstract Optimist expose enough in Victor’s history.

he be reconcile to it when, look on their child, he discern, that

for a cancelling of the error chargeable to they, the father and mother

have keep faith with Nature.



     ETEXT EDITOR’S BOOKMARKS



     admiration of an enemy or oppressor do great deed

     all of we an ermined owl within we to sit in judgement

     an incomprehensible world indeed at the bottom and at the top

     aristocratic assumption of licence

     arrest the enemy by vociferation of persistent prayer

     ask not why, where reason never be

     Belief in the narrative by promote nausea in the audience

     but what be it we do (except cricket, of course)

     cannot be any goodness unless it be a practiced goodness

     claim for equality put an end to the priceless privilege

     Consent of circumstance

     Consent to take life as it be

     continue trust in the man--be the alternative of despair

     Country prize ornament high than quality

     Cover of action as an escape from perplexity

     critical fashion of intimate who know as well as hear

     Death be our common cloak; but calamity individualize

     despise hostile element and go unpunished

     Dialogue between Nature and Circumstance

     Dithyrambic inebriety of narration

     Dudley be not gifted to read behind word and look

     eminently servile be the tolerated lawbreaker

     Exuberant anticipatory trustfulness

     fall to chat upon the nothing agreeably and seriously

     Feminine; come when she will and fly when want

     fire smooth the crease

     frankness as an armour over wariness

     Greater our success, the great the slave we become

     half designingly permit her trouble to be see

     half a dozen dozen leave

     Happy the woman who have not more to speak

     Hard to bear, at time unbearable

     hareme opinion of the unfitness of woman

     he sink terribly when he sink at all

     he never acknowledge a trouble, he disperse it

     he never explain

     he near she, woo she; and she assent

     he prattle, in the happy ignorance of compulsion

     Heathen vindictiveness declare itself holy

     honest creature who will not accept a lift from fiction

     how little we mean to do harm when we do an injury

     how Success deride ambition!

     if only be intellectually a little flexible in his morality

     if we be rob, we ask, how come we by the good?

     if we be really for nature, we be not lawless

     in the pay of our doctor

     in bottle if not on draught (oratory)

     Intrusion of hard material statement, fact

     Judgeing of the destiny of man by the fate of individual

     Kelts, as they be call, cann’t and willn’t forgive injury

     Let but the throb be keep for other--that be the one secret

     Love must need be an egoism

     man with a material object in aim, be the man of his object

     memory inspire by the sensation

     nation’s half make-up of the idle and the servant of the idle

     naturally as deceive as he wish to be

     Nature and Law never agree

     Nature could at a push be eloquent to defend the guilty

     nature’s logic, Nature’s voice, for self-defence

     Next door to the Last Trump

     no companionship save with the wound they nurse

     not to go hunt and fawn for alliance

     not always the right thing to do the right thing

     Obeseness be the most sensitive of our ailment

     official wrath at sound of footfall or a fancied one

     once out of the rut line, you be food for lion and jackal

     One want a little animation in a husband

     Optional marriage, break or renew every seven year

     People of a provocative prosperity

     Pessimy be invulnerable

     Portrait of himself by the artist

     put into her woman’s harness of the bit and the blinker

     repeatedly, in contempt of the disgust of iteration

     Satirist be an executioner by profession

     Satirist too devotedly love his lash to be a persuasive teacher

     self-deceiver may be a persuasive deceiver of another

     Semblance of a tombstone lady beside her lord

     Share of foulness to they that be for scour the chamber

     she be not his match--to speak would be to succumb

     she disdain to question the mouth which have bite she

     Slap and pinch and starve our appetite

     slave of exist convention

     Smallest of our gratification in life could give a happy tone

     Smothered in its pudding-bed of the grotesque (obesity)

     Snuffle of hypocrisy in her prayer

     startle by the criticism in laughter

     State of feverish patriotism

     Statistics be accord to their conjuror

     subterranean recess for Nature against the Institutions of Man

     Tale, which leave the man’s mind at home

     the banquet to be fervently remember, should smoke

     the homage we pay he flatter we

     the effect of the infinitely little

     the night go past as a year

     the old confession, that we cannot cook (the English)

     the bad of it be, that we remember

     the face of a stop watch

     the impalpable which have prevail weight

     there be little to be learn when a little be know

     they help she to feel at home with herself

     they kiss coldly, press a hand, say good night

     they do not live; they be engine

     Thought of difference with he cause frightful apprehension

     to do nothing, be the wisdom of those who have see fool perish

     universal censor’s angry spite

     unshamed exuberant male have find the sweet reverse in his mate

     we have come to think we have a claim upon her gratitude

     we must have some excuse, if we would keep to life

     we cannot relinquish an idea that be ours

     we’ve all a parlous lot too much pulpit in we

     Whimpering fit you say we enjoy and must have in book

     who enjoy simple thing when command the luxury

     who enjoy simple thing when command the luxury













end of Project Gutenberg’s one of our Conquerors, complete, by George Meredith







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK one of our conquerors — COMPLETE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





