The project Gutenberg eBook of Ambrose Lavendale, Diplomat

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Ambrose Lavendale, diplomat



Author: E. Phillips Oppenheim



Release date: October 16, 2017 [ebook #55760]

                most recently update: February 27, 2025



language: English



credit: produce by Al Haines





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK AMBROSE LAVENDALE, DIPLOMAT ***



  AMBROSE

  LAVENDALE,

  diplomat





  BY



  E. PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM







  HODDER and STOUGHTON LIMITED

  LONDON

  1920









_print in Great Britain by_ Butler & Tanner, _Frome and London_









content



CHAPTER I



the Man who could have end the War





CHAPTER II



the Lost Formula





CHAPTER III



A Deal with Niko





CHAPTER IV



General Matravers Repays





CHAPTER V



Susceptible Mr. Kessner





CHAPTER VI



the Machinations of Mr. Courlander





CHAPTER VII



the Indiscreet Travellers





CHAPTER VIII



the Undeniable Force





CHAPTER ix



an Interrupted Review





CHAPTER X



the Sentence of the Court









CHAPTER I



the MAN who could have end the WAR



it be a few minute after one o'clock--the busy hour of the day at

the most popular bar in London.  the usual little throng of Americans,

journalist, man of business and loiterer, be occupy their

accustomed chair in one corner of the long, green-carpet room.

around the bar, would-be customer be crowd three or four

deep--many of they stalwart Canadians in khaki, make the most of

their three day' leave, and a thin sprinkling of man about town on

their way to lunch in the grill-room adjoining.  on the outskirt of

the group be a somewhat incongruous figure, a rather under-size,

ill-dress, bespectacle little man, neither young nor old,

colourless, with a stoop which be almost a deformity.  his finger

be stain to the tip of his nail as though by chemical or tobacco

juice.  he hold the glass of vermouth which he have just succeed in

obtaining from the bar, half-way suspend to his lip.  he be

listen to the conversation around he.



'the most blackguardly trick that have ever be know in civilized

warfare!' a canadian officer declare indignantly.



'it's put the lid on all pretence of conduct this war decently,'

another assent.  'what about the Hague Convention?'



'the Hague Convention!' a young journalist from the other side repeat

sarcastically.  'I should like to know when Germany have ever show the

slight regard for the Hague Convention or any other agreement which

don't happen to suit she!'



the little man on the outskirt of the group, who have be listen

eagerly to the conversation, venture upon a question.  his accent at

once betray his transatlantic origin.



'Say, be there anything fresh this morning?' he inquire.  'I haven't

see the paper yet.'



the Canadian glance down at the speaker.



'we be talk,' he say, 'about the use of poisonous gas by the

Germans.  they start pump they at we yesterday and pretty nearly

clear we out of Ypres.'



the effect of this statement upon the little man be, in its way,

extraordinary.  for a moment he stand with his mouth open, the glass

shake between his finger, a queer, set expression in his pale face.

then his lip part and he begin to laugh.  it be a mirth so

obviously ill-time, so absolutely unaccountable, that they all turn

and stare at he.  there be no doubt whatever that for some reason or

other the news which he have just hear have excite this strange little

person almost hysterically.  his lip grow far apart, the whole of

his face be pucker up in little crease.  then, just as suddenly as

his extraordinary impulse towards mirth have come, it seem to pass

away.  he drain his glass, set it down on the edge of the counter,

and, turn around, walk slowly out of the place.  the remark that

follow he be not altogether inaudible and they be distinctly

uncomplimentary.



'all I could do to keep my toe off the little devil!' the Canadian

exclaim angrily.  'I'd like to take he back with I out into the

trench for a few day!'



a young man who have be talk to an english officer on the outskirt

of the group, turn around.  he be a tall, well-set-up young man,

with a face rather grave for his year and a mouth a little over-firm.

he, too, have watch the exit of the stranger half in indignation, half

in contempt.



'who be that extraordinary little man?' he inquire.



no one seem to know.  the waiter pause with a tray full of glass.



'he's stay in the hotel--arrive yesterday from America, sir,' he

announce.  'I don't know his name, but I think he's a little queer in

his head.'



the young man set down his glass upon the counter.



'a person,' he remark, 'who can laugh at such a ghastly thing, must

be either very queer in his head indeed, or----'



'or what, Ambrose?' his companion ask.



'I don't know,' the other reply thoughtfully.  'well, _au revoir_,

you fellow!  I'm go in to lunch.  sure you willn't come with I,

reggie?'



'sorry, I have to be back in ten minute,' the other reply.  'see you

to-morrow.'



Ambrose Lavendale stroll out of the room, cross the smoke-room and

descend into the restaurant.  at a table in a remote corner, seat

by himself, the little man who have be guilty of such a breach of

good-feeling be study the menu with a waiter by his side.

Lavendale watch he for a moment curiously.  then he turn to speak

to one of the _maître d'hôtel_, a short, dark man with a

closely-crop black moustache.



'I shalln't want my usual table this morning, Jules,' he announce.  'I

be go to sit in that corner.'



he indicate a vacant table close to the little man whom he have be

watch.  the _maître d'hôtel_ bow and usher he towards it.



'just as you like, Mr. Lavendale,' he say.  'it ben't often you care

about this side of the room, though.'



Lavendale seat himself at the table he have select, give a brief

order, and, lean back, glance around he.  the little man have send

for a newspaper and be read it eagerly, but for a moment

Lavendale's interest be attract elsewhere.  at the very next table,

also alone, also read a newspaper, be the most striking-look

young woman he have ever see in his life.  Lavendale be neither

susceptible nor imaginative.  he consider himself a practical,

hard-head person, notwithstanding the fact that he have embrace what

be for his country practically a new profession.  nevertheless, he be

conscious of what almost amount to a new interest in life as he

study, a little too eagerly, perhaps, the girl's feature.  she be

dark, with hair brush plainly back from a somewhat high and

beautifully shape forehead.  her complexion be pale, her eye a deep

shade of soft brown.  her eyebrow be almost japanese, fine and silky

yet intensely dark.  her mouth, even in repose, seem full of curve.

she appear to be of medium height and she be undoubtedly graceful,

and what make she more interesting still to Lavendale be the fact

that, although her manner of do so be stealthy, she, too, be

watch the little man who be now commence his luncheon.



Lavendale, after a few moment' reflection, adopt the obvious course.

he summon Jules and inquire the young lady's name.  the man be able

at once to give he the desire information.



'Miss de Freyne, sir,' he whisper discreetly.  'she be a writer, I

believe.  I be not quite sure,' the man add, 'whether she be not the

agent over here of some french dramatist.  I have see she sometimes

with theatrical party.'



Lavendale nod and settle down rather ineffectively to his lunch.

before he have finish he have arrive at two conclusion.  the first

be that Miss de Freyne, although obviously not for the same reason,

be as much interested in the stranger as he be; and the second that

his first impression concern her personality be, if anything, too

weak.  he ransack his memory for the name of all the theatrical

people whom he know, and make mental note of they.  it be his firm

intention to make her acquaintance before the day be over.  once their

eye meet, and, notwithstanding a reasonable amount of _savoir faire_,

for the moment he be almost embarrassed.  he find it impossible to

glance away, and she return a regard which he feel in a way be

semi-committal, with a queer sort of nonchalant interest in a sense

provocative, although it contain nothing of invitation.  at the end

of the meal Lavendale have come to a decision.  he sign his bill, rise

from his place and approach the table at which the little man be

seat.



'Sir,' he say, 'I be a stranger to you, but I should like, if I may,

to ask you a question.'



even in that moment's pause, when the little man lay down his

newspaper and be stare up at his questioner in manifest surprise,

Lavendale feel that his proceeding have attract the strong interest

from the young woman seat only a few foot away.  she have lean ever

so slightly forward.  a coffee cup with which she have be toy have

be noiselessly return to its saucer.  it be genuine interest,

this, not curiosity.



'say, how's that?' the little man exclaim.  'ask I a question?  why,

I don't know as there'd be any harm in that.  I'm not promise that

I'll answer it.'



'I be in the bar a moment ago,' Lavendale continue, 'when they be

talk of these poisonous gas which the Germans be use.  I hear

you ask a question and I hear the answer.  you be apparently for the

first time inform of this new practice of theirs.  will you tell I

why, when you hear of it, you laugh?'



the little man nod his head slowly as though in response to some

thought.



'sit down, young fellow,' he invite.  'be you an American?'



'I be,' Lavendale admit.  'my name be Ambrose Lavendale and I be

attach to the Embassy here until last August.'



'that so?' the other reply with some interest.  'well, mine's Hurn.

I don't know a soul in London and you may be useful to I, so if you

like I'll answer your question.  you think my laugh abominable, I

guess?'



'I do,' Lavendale assented,--'we all do.  I dare say you hear some

of the comment that follow you out!'



'it be a selfish laugh, perhaps,' the little man continue

thoughtfully, 'but it be not an inhuman one.  now, sir, I will answer

your question.  I will tell you what that piece of information which I

hear at the bar, and which I find in the paper here, mean to I and

mean to the world.  hold tight, young man.  I be go to make a

statement which, if you be sensible enough to believe it, will take

your breath away.  if you don't, you'll think I'm a lunatic.  be you

ready?'



'go ahead,' Lavendale invite.  'I guess my nerve be in pretty good

order.'



Mr. Hurn lay the flat of his hand upon the table and look upwards at

his companion.  he speak very slowly and very distinctly.



'I can stop the war,' he declare.



Lavendale smile at he incredulously--the man be mad!



'really?' he exclaim.  'well, you'll be the great benefactor the

world have ever know, if you can.'



the little man, who have arrive at the final stage of his luncheon,

help himself to another pat of butter.



'you don't believe I, of course,' he say, 'yet it happen that I be

speak the truth.  you be think, I guess, that I be a pitifully

insignificant little unit in this great city, in this rage world.

yet I have speak the solid truth.  I can stop the war, and, if you

like, you can help I.'



Lavendale withdraw his eye from his new acquaintance's face for a

moment and glance towards the girl.  something that be almost a smile

of mutual understanding flash between they.  Doubtless she have

overhear some part of their conversation.  Lavendale raise his voice

a little in order that she might hear more.  he feel a thrill of

pleasure at the thought that they be establish a mutual confidence.



'I'll help, of course,' he promise.  'in what direction be your

effort to be make?'



the little man pause in the act of drink a glass of water, squint

at his questioner, and set the tumbler down empty.



'wonder what sort of a crank you've get hold of, eh?'



Lavendale begin to be impress.  the little man do not look in the

least like a lunatic.



'well, it's rather a sweeping proposition, your,' Lavendale remark.



'everything in the world,' the other remind he didactically, 'be

impossible before it be do.  your help needn't be very strenuous.  I

guess there's some sort of headquarters in London from which this war

be run, eh?'



'there's the War Office,' Lavendale explain.



'know any one there?'



'yes, I know a good many soldier who have job there just now.'



'then I guess you can help by save I time.  do you happen to be

acquaint with any one in the Ordnance Department?'



Lavendale reflect for a moment.



'yes, I know a man there,' he admit.  'it's just as well to warn

you, though, that they're absolutely feed up with try new shell and

powder.'



the little man smile--a queer, reflective smile, fill with some

quality of self-appreciation which seem at once to lift he above the

whole world of crazy inventor.



'your friend there now,' he ask, 'or will he be take his british

two hour for lunch?'



'he never leave the building after he get there in the morning,'

Lavendale reply.



Mr. Daniel H. Hurn sign his bill and lay down an insignificant tip.



'you through with your luncheon?' he inquire.  'right!  then what

about take I along and let I have a word with your friend?'



'I don't mind,' Lavendale agree, a little doubtfully, 'but he haven't

very much influence.'



again the other smile, and again Lavendale be impress by that

mysterious contortion.  he glance towards the adjoining table.  the

girl be still watch they closely.  jule, whom she have apparently

just summon, be stand by her side, and Lavendale be convince

that the question which she be obviously ask, refer to he.  he

leave the room with reluctance and follow his companion through the

hall and into a taxi.



'not sure whether I tell you,' the latter remark, as he seat

himself, 'that my name be Hurn--Daniel H. Hurn--and I come from way out

west.'



'glad to meet you, Mr. Hurn,' Lavendale murmur mechanically.  'you

be not take anything with you to show the people at the War Office,

then?'



Mr. Hurn shake his head.



'not necessary,' he answer.  'bring I face to face with a live

man--that's all I need, that's all you need to end the war.'



'I be an American,' Lavendale remind he.



Mr. Hurn glance at his companion curiously.  Lavendale, dress by an

english tailor and at home in most of the capital of Europe, be an

unfamiliar type.



'shouldn't have think it,' he admit.  'this the place?'



Lavendale nod and pay for the taxi without any protest from his

companion, whom he pilot down many corridor until they reach a

room in the rear of the building.  a boy scout guard the door.  he

stand on one side to let Lavendale pass, but glance at his companion

questioningly.



'would you mind wait here just for a moment?' Lavendale suggest.

'my friend be in this room, work with several other man.  it would

be well for I to have a word with he first.'



'sure!' the other agree.  'you run the show.  I'll wait.'



Lavendale enter the apartment and approach the desk before which

his friend be sit.



'Hullo, Reggie!' he exclaim.



the young man, who be hard at work, look up from a sheaf of paper

and hold out his left hand.



'how be you, Ambrose?  sit down by the side of I, if you want to

talk.  we're up to the eye here.'



Lavendale lean over the desk.



'look here, old chap,' he go on, 'I've come on a sort of fool's

errand, perhaps.  I've get a little american outside.  he's a most

unholy-looking object, but he want a word with some one in the

Ordnance Department.'



Merrill shake his head reproachfully.



'be this quite fair?' he protest.  'we've have our morning dose of

crank already.'



'I'm sorry,' Lavendale say, 'but you've get to deal with one more.'



'know anything about he?'



'not a thing,' Lavendale admit.  'I've talk to he for five

minute, and I have just an idea that you ought to hear what he have to

say.'



Merrill lay down a paperweight upon his document.



'look here, old fellow,' he say, 'I'll take your little pal round to

Bembridge, if you say the word, but I warn you, he be as feed up as I be

and he'll be pretty short with he.'



'I shouldn't think my man be sensitive,' Lavendale observe.  'anyhow,

my trouble's over if you'll do that.'



Merrill sigh and close his desk.



'this way, then.'



they pass out of the room to where Mr. Daniel H. Hurn be wait.

Merrill seem a little take aback as Lavendale briefly introduce

they, and his glance towards his friend be significant.  however, he

lead they both down the corridor and knock at a door at the further

end.



'be the General disengage?' he ask the orderly who open it.



they be immediately usher in.  two clerk be seat at a great

round table, apparently copy plan.  there be model in the room

of every form of modern warfare.  a tall, thin man in the uniform of a

General, be examine some new pattern of hand grenade as they enter.



'Sir,' Merrill begin, address he apologetically, 'my friend here,

Mr. Ambrose Lavendale, who be in the American Embassy for some time,

have bring Mr. Daniel Hurn of Chicago to have a word with you.'



the General drop his eyeglass and sigh.



'an invention?' he ask patiently.



'something of the sort,' Mr. Hurn admit briskly.  'do I understand

that you be a General in the British Army?'



'I be, sir,' General Bembridge admit.



'very well, then,' Mr. Hurn proceed, 'I be here to tell you this--I

can end your war.  when you're through with smile at I, you'll

probably say 'prove it.'  I will prove it.  there's a row of taxicab

down below.  take I outside this city of yours to where there's a

garden and a field beyond.  afterwards we'll talk business.  you'll

want to, right enough.  it'll take about an hour of your time--and I

can end the war!'



there be a moment's silence.  the two clerk who have be write at

the table, have turn around.  General Bembridge be look a little

curiously at his unusual visitor.



'Mr. Hurn,' he say, 'I will be frank with you.  the average number of

visitor who present themselves here during the day with device which

will end the war, be twenty.  to-day that average have be exceed.  I

have already speak to twenty-four.  you make, you see, the

twenty-fifth.  if we be to go out in taxicab and watch experiment

with every one of them----'



'Pshaw!  I'm not one of those crank,' Mr. Hurn interrupt.  'read

this.'



he hand a half sheet of notepaper across to the General, who adjust

his eyeglass and read.  the heading at the top of the notepaper be

'_the Chicago School of Chemical Research_' and its content be brief:





    '_Mr. Daniel H. Hurn be a distinguished member of this society.  we

    recommend the attention of the British War Office to any suggestion

    he may make._'





'here's another,' Mr. Hurn go on.  'this be from the great firm of

steel producer in the world--kind of personal.'



General Bembridge glance at the historic name which recommend Mr.

Hurn to the consideration of the Government.  then he sigh.



'I be go to-morrow morning at ten o'clock,' he say, 'to inspect a

battery at Hatton Park, three mile from Hatfield, on the road to

Baldock.  you can meet I at the lodge gate at a quarter to ten and I

will give you a quarter of an hour.'



'this afternoon would have be well,' Mr. Hurn observe, button

up the letter in his coat, 'but to-morrow morning it shall be.'



the General wave they away.  Merrill glance curiously at the American

as the three man walk down the corridor.



'those letter do the trick,' he remark.  'forgive I if I hurry,

Lavendale.  don't let your friend be a minute late to-morrow morning or

he'll lose his chance.'



'I'll see to that,' Mr. Hurn promise.  'guess I can hire some sort of

an automobile to take I out there.  good morning, Captain Merrill,' he

add, by way of parting salute, hold out his curiously stain

hand.  'I be much oblige to you for your help, and you can sleep

to-night feeling you've do more than any man in this great building

to save your country.'



Merrill wink at Lavendale as he disappear within his room.  the

latter, with the inventor by his side, step out into the street.



'about go down there to-morrow morning----' he begin.



'young man,' Mr. Hurn interrupt impressively, 'you've do your good

for I and it's only right you should have your reward.  you may

accompany I to this place, wherever it be.'



Lavendale laugh softly, a laugh which his companion absolutely fail

to understand.



'all right,' he agree, 'I'll take you down in my car.  I'll be at the

hotel at nine o'clock.'



'at five minute to ten, if the General be punctual,' Mr. Hurn

promise, 'you shall see the most wonderful sight you have ever

witness in your life.'





II



Punctually at nine o'clock on the follow morning, Lavendale bring

his car to a standstill before the front door of the Milan Hotel.  Mr.

Hurn, look, if possible, shabby and more insignificant than ever,

be wait under the portico.  he clamber at once to the seat by

Lavendale's side.



'haven't you any apparatus to bring, or anything?' the latter inquire.



Mr. Hurn smile.



'not a darned thing!'



Lavendale be puzzle.



'you mean you're ready to start with your experiment, just as you be,

like this?'



'sure!' the little man answer, 'and you'd well get she go.'



they start off in silence.  once more Lavendale, as he glance at the

shabby little object by his side, begin to lose confidence.  as they

swing round into Golder's Green he speak again.



'what sort of a show be you go to give we?' he ask.



Mr. Hurn glance at his watch.



'you'll know inside of an hour,' he reply.



Lavendale frown.  his protégé's appearance that morning be certainly

not prepossess.  his collar show distinct trace of its

vicissitude upon the previous day.  his ugly, discolour hand be

ungloved; his boot be of some dull, indescribable material which

seem to have escape the attention of the valet; his flannel shirt

be of the style and pattern display in Strand establishment which

cater for the unæsthetic.  he have discard his hat for a black cloth

cap and he have develop a habit of mutter to himself.  Lavendale

press the accelerator of his car and increase its pace.



'I suppose I've make a fool of myself,' he mutter.



they reach the open country and draw up in due time before the lodge

gate of what seem to be a very large estate.  there be no sign as

yet of the General.  Mr. Hurn descend briskly and at once embark

upon a survey of the neighbourhood.  Lavendale light a cigarette and

pause to watch the approach of a great limousine car rush up the

hill.  it pass they in a cloud of dust,--he stand stare after it.

notwithstanding the close window, he have catch a glimpse of a face,

of eye gaze with strained intentness out on to his side of the

road--the face of a woman convulse with urgency--the woman who have

play such queer havoc with his thought.  almost at the same moment

there be a rasp voice in his ear.



'Say, Mr. Lavendale, there's just one thing I ought to have warn you

people about, you don't want any spectator to this show.  there ben't

no one on this earth have see what you be go to see.'



Lavendale be conscious of a queer flash of premonition.  they

three--the girl, the crazy little american and he himself--at this

critical moment seem to have come once more together.  what be the

girl do out here?  could her appearance really be fortuitous?  the

little man's warning became automatically associate with this

unexpected glimpse of she.  then, with a return impulse of sanity,

Lavendale brush his suspicion on one side.



'there'll only be farm labourer within sight, anyway,' he remark.

'you see, no one could have know that we be come here.'



'that may be so or it mayn't,' Mr. Hurn reply dryly.  'anyway, I

guess this be the boss come along.'



an open touring car, drive by a man in khaki, draw up at the lodge

gate.  General Bembridge descend briskly and come towards they,

follow by Captain Merrill.



'glad to see you be punctual, Mr. Hurn,' he say.  'now, if you

please, I be at your disposal for a quarter of an hour.  what be it

that you have bring to show I?'



'that's all right, General,' Mr. Hurn reply affably.  'you don't need

to worry.  I've be take my fixing round here.  just step this way.'



he shamble along across the turf.  the other follow he, the

General walk by Lavendale's side.



'haven't your friend bring any apparatus to show we?' he inquire

irritably.  'what's he go to do?'



'Heaven know, sir!' Lavendale reply.  'he have tell I nothing.  if

it ben't for those letter he show you, I should have think he

be a lunatic.'



Mr. Hurn assemble the little party about twenty-five yard ahead of a

fringe of tree which border the road-side and terminate after a

slight break in a compact little spinney.  he turn to Captain Merrill.



'say, young man,' he suggest, 'you just hop round the other side and

make sure there's no one about.'



Merrill, in obedience to a glance from the General, hurry off.  the

latter turn towards Mr. Hurn.



'you be leave we very much in the dark, sir, he remark.  'what be

it that you propose to attempt?'



'I propose to accomplish on a small scale,' Mr. Hurn say

grandiloquently, 'a work of destruction which you can repeat upon any

scale you choose.  see here.'



with the utmost solemnity he draw from his pocket a schoolboy's

ordinary catapult and a pill-box.  from the latter he select a pellet

a little small than a marble.  he fit it carefully into the back

of the catapult.  Captain Merrill, who have complete his tour of the

spinney, return.



'there be no one about, sir,' he announce.



Mr. Hurn have suddenly the air of a man who attempt great deed.  his

attitude, as he step forward, be almost theatrical.  the General

have become very stern and be obviously annoyed.  Lavendale's heart be

sink fast.  he be already try to think out some form of apology

for his share in what he feel have develop into a ridiculous fiasco.

nevertheless, their eye be all rivet upon the strange little

figure a few foot in front of they.  slowly he draw back the elastic of

the catapult and discharge the pellet.  it strike a tree inside the

spinney and there be immediately a curious report, which sound more

like a slow muttering of human pain than an ordinary detonation.  Mr.

Hurn point towards the spinney.  there be great thing in his

attitude and in his gesture.  a queer, very faint, grey smoke seem to

be steal through the place.  there be a sound like the splitting of

branch amongst the tree, the shrill death cry of terrified

animal.  the General would have move forward, but Mr. Hurn catch he

by the belt.



'stay where you be, all of you,' he order.  'the place ben't safe

yet.'



the wonder begin to grow upon they.  the various shade of green in the

spinney seem suddenly, before their eye, to change into a universal

smoke-colour ashen-grey.  without any cause that they could see, the

bark begin to fall away from many of the tree, as though unseen hand

be engage in some gruesome task of devastation.  the little party

stand there, spellbound, watch this mysterious cataclysm.  Mr. Hurn

glance at his watch.



'you can follow I now,' he direct.  'with this strong westerly wind

you willn't need respirator, but breathe as quietly as you can.'



they follow he to the edge of the spinney.  there be not one of

they who be not absolutely dumbfounded.  every shred of colour have

pass from the foliage, the undergrowth and the hedge.  flower and

weed, every live thing, be the same ashen colour.  the ground on

which their footstep fall break away as though the life have be

sap from it.  there be two rabbit, a dead cock pheasant, the

glory of his plumage turn into a sickly grey, and a dozen small

bird, all of the same ashen shade.  Lavendale kick one of they.  it

crumble into piece as though it be the fossil of some creature a

thousand year old.



'the pellet which I discharge from the catapult,' Mr. Hurn announce,

in his queer, squeaky voice, 'contain two grain of my preparation.

shell can be make to contain a thousand grain.  I reckon that this

spinney be eighty yard in area.  I will guarantee to you that within

that eighty yard there be not alive, at the present moment, any bird

or insect or animal of any kind or description.  just as they have

die, so would have any human being who have be within this area, have

pass away.  the rest be a matter of the multiplication table.'



'but will your invention bear the shock of be fire from a gun?' the

General ask eagerly.



'that be all arrange for,' Mr. Hurn reply.  'I have some trial

shell here.  the powder, which be my invention, be of two sort,

separate in the shell by a partition.  they be absolutely harmless

until concussion break down that division.  this little matter,' he

add, wave his hand upon that scene of hideous desolation, 'be like

the bite of a flea.  a dozen boy with catapult could destroy a

division.  with two battery of gun, General, you could destroy ten

mile of trench and a hundred thousand man.'



they walk around the spinney, still a little daze with the wonder of

it.  suddenly Lavendale give a little cry.  out in the field on the

other side lie the motionless body of a woman.  they all hurry

towards it.



'I think you come round here, Merrill!' the General exclaim.



'I do, sir,' the young officer reply.  'there ben't a soul in

sight.'



Lavendale be the first to reach the prostrate figure.  almost before

he stoop to gaze into her face, he recognize she.  there be little

fleck of grey upon her dress and she be ghastly pale.  her eye,

however, be open, and she be struggle helplessly to move.



'I be all right,' she assure they feebly.  'have any one--any brandy?'



she try to sit up, but she be obviously on the point of collapse.

Mr. Hurn push his way to her side.  from another pill-box which he

have withdraw from his pocket, he take out a small pellet and force it

unceremoniously through her tooth.



'I invent an antidote whilst I be about it,' he explain.  'have to

keep on take it myself when I be experiment.  she's only get a

touch of it.  she'll be all right in five minute.  what I should like

to know be,' he conclude suspiciously, 'what the devil she be do

here, any way.'



the recovery of the young lady be almost magical.  she first sit up.

then, with the help of Lavendale's hand, she rise easily to her foot.

she point to the spinney.



'what on earth be this awful thing?' she falter.



no one speak for a minute.



'what be you do round here, young lady?' Mr. Hurn ask bluntly.



she look at he with her big, innocent eye as though surprised.



'I be motor along the road,' she explain, 'when I see you stop,'

she go on, turn towards the General.  'I remember that I have

hear there be to be a review here.  I think I might see something

of it.'



there be a silence.



'perhaps,' Merrill suggest, 'the young lady will give we her name and

address?'



she raise her eyebrow slightly.



'but willingly,' she answer.  'I be Miss Suzanne de Freyne, and my

address be at the Milan Court.  I haven't do anything wrong, have I?'



'nothing at all,' Lavendale assure she hastily.  'it's we who feel

guilty.'



'but what do it all mean?' she demand, a little pathetically.  'I

be just walk across the field when suddenly that happen.  I feel

as though all the strength be go out of my body.  I don't exactly

suffocate, but it be just as though I be swallow something which

stop in my throat.'



'Capital!' Mr. Hurn exclaim, his face beam.  'most interesting!

perhaps, after all,' he go on complacently, 'if we may take it for

grant that the young lady's presence be entirely accidental, her

experience be not without some interest to we.'



'but will no one tell I what it mean?' she persist.



there be a silence.  Lavendale be suddenly oppress by a queer

foreboding.  the General take Miss de Freyne courteously by the arm and

lead she on one side.  he point with his ride whip to the gate where

the limousine be stand.



'Young lady,' he say, 'Captain Merrill here will take you back to your

car.  you will confer a great obligation upon every one here, and upon

your country, if you allow this little incident to pass from your mind.'



she laugh softly.  her eye seem to be seek for something in

Lavendale's face which she fail to find.  then she turn away with a

shrug of the shoulder and glance up at Captain Merrill.



'I be not a prisoner, be I?' she ask.  'let I assure you all,' she

declare, with a little wave of farewell, 'that I never want to think

of this hateful spot again.'



they watch her pass through the gate and enter the car which be

stand in the road.



'do any one know she?' the General inquire.



'she be at the next table to Mr. Hurn here when I speak to he at the

Milan,' Lavendale observe thoughtfully.  'she be listen to our

conversation.  it may be a coincidence, but it seem strange that she

should have be on our heel just at this particular moment.'



the General pass his arm through Mr. Hurn's.



'the Intelligence Department shall make a few inquiry,' he promise.

'as for you, my dear sir, our position be now reversed.  my time be

your.  I will find another opportunity to inspect these troop.  will

you return with I to the War Office at once?'



'right away,' Mr. Hurn assent.  'and, General,' he go on,

swagger a little as he shamble along by the side of the tall,

alert, military figure--queer contrast in the world--'give I a

factory--one of your ordinary factory will do, all your ordinary

appliance will do, but give I control of it for one month and you can

invite I to Berlin to the peace signing.'



      *      *      *      *      *



at about half-past eight that evening, after having wait about for

some time in the hall of the Milan Grill-room, Lavendale hand his

coat and hat to the vestiaire and pass into the crowded restaurant.

a young man of excellent poise and balance, he be almost bewildered at

his own sensation as he elbow his way through the throng of waiter

and passer-by.  at the corner of the glass screen he pause.  the girl

be there, seat at the same table, with a newspaper prop up in

front of she.  her black hair seem glossy than ever; her face,

unshadowe by any hat, a little more pallid and forceful.  a fur coat

have fall back from her white shoulder.  she seem to be wholly

absorb in the paper in front of she.



'a table, monsieur?' a soft voice murmur at his elbow.



Lavendale shake off his abstraction and glance reluctantly away.



'I be dine with Mr. Hurn, Jules,' he reply.  'he say eight

o'clock, but I cann't see anything of he.'



Jules point to a table close at hand, evidently reserve for two

people.  there be _hor d'oeuvres_ wait and a bottle of wine upon

the ice.



'Mr. Hurn order dinner for eight o'clock punctually, sir,' he

announce.  'I have be expect he in for some time.'



the girl, as though attract by their voice, have raise her eye.

she look towards the unoccupied table by the side of which Jules be

stand.  the three of they for a moment seem to have concentrate

their regard upon the same spot, and Lavendale be conscious of a queer

little emotion, an unanalyzable foreboding.



'the gentleman order a very excellent dinner,' Jules observe.  'I

have already send back the cocktail twice.'



Lavendale glance at the clock.  almost at the same time his eye meet

the girl's.  there be a quiver of recognition in her face.  he take

instant advantage of it and move towards she.



'you be quite recover, I trust, Miss de Freyne?'



she raise her eye to his.  again he feel that sense of baffle

impenetrability.  it be impossible even to know whether she

appreciate or resent his question.



'I be quite recovered, thank you,' she say.  'you have see nothing

more of our queer little friend?'



'nothing at all,' she tell he.



'he invite I to dine with he,' Lavendale explain, 'at eight

o'clock punctually.  I have be wait outside for nearly half an

hour.'



she glance at the clock and Lavendale, with a little bow, pass on.



'perhaps he mean I to go up to his room,' he remark, address

Jules.  'do you know his number?'



'eighty-nine in the Court, sir,' the man reply.  'shall I send up?'



'I'll go myself,' Lavendale decide.



jule bow and, although Lavendale do not glance around, he feel that

the girl's eye as well as the man's follow he to the door.  he ring

for the lift and ascend to the fourth floor, make his way down the

corridor and pause before number eighty-nine.  he knock at the

door--there be no reply.  then he try the handle, which yield at

once to his touch.  inside all be darkness.  he turn on the electric

light and push open the door of the sitting-room just in front.



'Mr. Hurn!' he exclaim, raise his voice.



there be still no reply,--a strange, brood silence which seem to

possess subtle quality of mystery and apprehension.  Lavendale have

all the courage and unshaken nerve of youth and yet at that moment he

be afraid.  his grope along the wall for the switch and find it with

an impulse of relief.  the room be flood with soft

light--Lavendale's hand seem glue to the little brass knob.  he

stand there with his back to the wall, his face set, speechless.  Mr.

Daniel H. Hurn be seat in an easy-chair in what appear at first to

be a natural attitude.  his head, however, have fall back, and from

his neck droop the long end of a silken cord.  Lavendale take one

step forward and then pause again.  the man's face be visible

now--white, ghastly, with wide-open, sightless eye....



the valet, who be pass down the corridor, paused and look in at

the door.



'be there anything wrong, sir?' he ask.



Lavendale seem to come back with a rush into the world of real

thing.  he withdraw the key from the door, step outside and lock

it.



'you have well take that to the manager,' he say.  'I will wait

outside here.  tell he to come at once.'



'anything wrong, sir?' the valet repeat.



Lavendale nod.



'the man there in the chair be dead!' he whisper.









CHAPTER II



the lose formula



the two young man stand side by side before the window of the Milan

smoke-room--Ambrose Lavendale, the American, and his friend Captain

Merrill from the War Office.  directly opposite to they be a narrow

street run down to the Embankment, at the foot of which they could

catch a glimpse of the river.  a little to the left be a dark and

melancholy building with a number of sightless window.



'wonder what sort of people live in that place?' Merrill ask

curiously.  'Milan Mansions they call it, don't they?'



the other nod.



'Gloomy sort of barrack,' he remark.  'I've never see even a face

at the window.'



'there's a new experience for you, then,' Merrill observe, point a

little forward,--'a girl's face, too.'



Lavendale be stonily silent, yet when the momentarily raise curtain

have fall he give a little gasp.  it could have be no hallucination.

the face, transfigure though it be, in a sense, by its air of

furtiveness, be, without a doubt, the face of the girl who have be

constantly in his thought for the last three week.  he count the

window carefully from the ground, note the exact position of the room

and pass his arm through his friend's.



'come along, Reggie,' he say.



'where to?'



'don't ask any question,' Lavendale beg.  'just wait.'



they leave the hotel by an unfrequented way, Lavendale half a dozen

pace ahead.  Merrill venture upon a mild protest.



'look here, old chap,' he complain, 'you might tell I where we be

off to?'



Lavendale slacken his speed for a moment to explain.



'to that room,' he declare.  'don't you recognize the girl's face?'



Merrill shake his head.



'I scarcely notice it.'



'it be the girl whom we find unconscious, half poison by that

fellow Hurn's diabolical invention,' Lavendale explain.  'she ben't

there by accident, either.  I catch she listen in the Milan

Grill-room when Hurn be talk to I, and the day after the inquest

she disappear.'



Merrill lay a hand upon his friend's arm.



'even if this be so, Lavendale,' he expostulate, 'she probably don't

want we bother over here.  what be you go to say to she?  Pretty

sort of ass we shall look if we blunder in upon she like this.'



Lavendale continue to climb the stair.  by this time they have reach

the second landing.



'if you feel that way about it, Merrill,' he say, 'you can wait for

I--or clear out altogether, if you like.  I want to have a few word

with this young lady, and I be go to have they.'



Merrill sigh.



'I'll see you through it, Ambrose,' he grumble.  'all the same, I'm

not at all sure that we be not make fool of ourselves.'



they mount yet another flight.  a crazy lift go lumber past they

up to the top of the building.  Lavendale pause outside a door near

the end of the passage.



'this should be the one,' he announce.



he ring a bell.  they could hear it peal inside, but there be no

response.  once more he press the button.  this time it seem to

they both that its shrill summon be ring through empty space.

there be no sound of any movement within.  the door of the next flat,

however, open.  a tall, rather stout man, very untidily dress, with

pale, unwholesome face and a mass of ill-arrange hair, look out.



'Sir,' he say, 'it be no use ring that bell.  the only purpose you

serve be to disturb I at my labour.  the flat be empty.'



'be you quite sure about that?' Lavendale ask.



'absolutely!'



'how be it, then, that I see a face at one of the window a quarter of

an hour ago?' Lavendale demand.



'you be mistaken, sir,' be the grim reply.  'the thing be impossible.

the porter who have the letting of the flat be only on duty in the

afternoon, and, as a special favour to the proprietor, I have the key

here.'



'then with your permission I will borrow they,' Lavendale observe.  'I

be look for room in this neighbourhood.'



the man bow and throw open the door.



'come in, sir,' he invite pompously.  'I will fetch the key for you.

my secretary,' he add, with a little wave of his hand, point to a

florid, over-buxom and untidy-look woman who be struggle with an

ancient typewriter.  'you find I hard at work try to finish a play

I have be commission to write for my friend Tree.  you be aware,

perhaps, of my--er--identity?'



'I be sorry,' Lavendale reply.  'you see, I be an American, not a

Londoner.'



'that,' the other declare, 'account for it.  my name be

Somers-Keyne--Hamilton Somers-Keyne.  my work, I trust, be more

familiar to you than my personality?'



'naturally,' Lavendale assent, a little vaguely.



the dramatist, who have be search upon a mantelpiece which seem

litter with cigarette end, scrap of letter and an empty tumbler or

so, suddenly turn around with the key in his hand.



'it be here,' he pronounce.  'examine the room for yourself, Mr.----?'



'Lavendale.'



'Mr. Lavendale.  they be furnish, I believe, but as regard the rent

I know nothing except that the myrmidon who collect it be unpleasantly

persistent in his attention.  if you will return the key to I, sir,

when you have finish, I shall be oblige.'



'certainly,' Lavendale promise.



the two young man open the door and explore a dusty,

barely-furnish, gloomy, conventional little suite, consist of a

single bedroom, a boxlike sitting-room, and a bathroom in the last

stage of dilapidation.  the room be undoubtedly empty, nor be

there anywhere any sign of recent habitation.  Lavendale stand at the

window, lean over and count.  when he draw back his face be more

than ever puzzle.  he look once more searchingly around the

unprepossesse room.



'this be the window, Reggie,' he insist.



Merrill have lose interest in the affair and do not hesitate to show it.



'seem to I you must have count wrongly,' he declare.  'in any

case, there's no one here now, and it's quite certain that no one have

be in during the last hour or so.'



Lavendale say nothing for a moment.  he examine the flat once more

carefully, lock it up, and take the key back to Mr. Somers-Keyne's

room.  the dramatist open the door himself.



'you be favourably impressed, I trust, with the room?' he inquire,

hold out his hand for the key.



'I be not sure,' Lavendale reply.  'tell I, how long be it since any

one occupy they?'



'they be dust and sweep once a week,' Mr. Somers-Keyne tell he,

look closely at his questioner from underneath his puffy eyelid,

'and they may have be show occasionally to a prospective tenant.

otherwise, no one have be in they for nearly a month.'



'no one could have be in they this morning, then?'



'absolutely impossible,' be the confident answer.  'the key have not

be off my shelf.'



'we must not interrupt you far,' Lavendale declare.  'I shall

apply for a first night seat when your production be present, Mr.

Somers-Keyne.'



'you be very good, sir,' the other acknowledge.  'your face, I may

say, be familiar to I as a patron of the theatre.  what be the

chance, may I inquire, of your take up your residence in this

building?'



'I have not make up my mind,' Lavendale reply.  'there be some other

particular I must have.  I shall call and interview the hall-porter

this afternoon.'



'if a welcome, sir, from your near neighbour be any inducement,' Mr.

Somers-Keyne pronounce, 'let I offer it to you.  my secretary, too,

Miss Brown--I think I mention Miss Brown's name?--is often nervous

with an empty flat next door.  I be out a great deal in the evening,

Mr. Lavendale.  my work demand a constant study of the most modern

method of dramatic production.  you follow I, I be sure?'



'absolutely,' Lavendale assure he.  'by the by, sir, we be return

for a moment or two to the bar at the Milan.  if you will accompany

us----'



Mr. Somers-Keyne be already reach out for his hat.



'with the utmost pleasure, my dear young friend,' he consent.  'the

Milan bar be at one time a hallowed spot to I.  misfortune of

various sort--but I will not weary you with a relation of my trouble.

if Tree ring up, Flora, say that I shall have finish the second act

to-night.  you can tell he that it be wonderful.  now, gentleman!'



they leave the building together and a few moment later be ensconce

in a corner of the bar with a bottle of whisky and some tumbler before

they.  Lavendale help his guest bountifully.  he have hard work,

however, to keep the trend of the conversation away from the subject of

Mr. Somers-Keyne's early triumph upon the stage, which it appear

be numerous and remarkable.  with every tumblerful of whisky and

soda, indeed, he seem to grow more forgetful of his home across the

way.  as he expand he grow more untidy.  his tie slip, his collar

have fly open, his waistcoat be spot with the liquid which have

fall from the glass in his unsteady effort to lift it to his lip.

his pasty face have become mottled.  Lavendale, who have be watch

his guest closely, fire a sudden question at he.



'you don't happen to know a Miss de Freyne, do you?' he inquire

innocently.



the change in the man be wonderful.  from a state of maudlin

amiability he seem to be stricken with an emotion of either fear or

anger.  his eye narrow.  he set his glass down almost steadily,

although he be oblige to breathe heavily several time before he

speak.



'Miss de Freyne,' he repeat.  'what about she?'



Lavendale point towards the window behind they.



'nothing except that when I be in here an hour ago I see Miss de

Freyne's face at the window of that empty suite next to your,' he say.



Mr. Somers-Keyne rise to his foot.  a splendid dignity guide his

footstep and keep his voice steady.



'Sir,' he pronounce, 'I be able to surmise now the reason for your

excessive hospitality.  I wish you good morning!'



he turn towards the door.



'Mr. Somers-Keyne,' Lavendale begin, rise hastily to his feet----



the dramatist wave he away.  his gesture, if a little theatrical, be

final.  the honour remain with he....





Lavendale, a few minute later, on his way to his luncheon-table in the

grill-room, throw his accustomed glance across the room towards the

corner which be still possess of a peculiar interest for he.  he

pause in the act of take his place.  at her same table, with a

little pile of manuscript prop up in front of she, Miss de Freyne

be seat, study the luncheon menu.  for a moment he hesitate.

then he rise to his foot and, cross the room, address she.



'Miss de Freyne!'



she glance up in some surprise.  she seem, indeed, scarcely to

recognize he.



'you have not forget I, I hope?' he continue.  'my name be

Lavendale.'



'of course,' she assent slowly.  'you be the friend of that strange

little creature with the marvellous invention, ben't you?'



'I be scarcely his friend,' Lavendale correct, 'but I do my good to

help he.'



she make a pencil mark in the margin of the manuscript and lay it face

downward upon the table.  then she lean back in her chair and look

at he.



'tell I what happen?' she beg.  'I be oblige to leave London

the next day and I have only just return.  be it suicide or murder?'



'the man be murder, without a doubt,' Lavendale reply.



'be that so, really?' she ask gravely.  'tell I, have he give over

his formula to the War Office?'



Lavendale sigh.



'unfortunately no!  he be to have hand it over at eleven o'clock the

next morning.'



'be it find amongst his effect?'



'not a write line of any sort.'



'be any one suspect?' she inquire, drop her voice a little.



Lavendale hesitate and glance cautiously around.



'Scarcely that,' he answer, 'but you remember the man Jules, the

_maître d'hôtel_ here?'



she nod.



'a Swiss, ben't he?  I be just wonder what have become of he.



'during the investigation the next day,' Lavendale continue, 'it be

discover that his paper be forge and that he be in reality an

Austrian.  he be intern at once, of course, and I believe there be

a certain amount of secrecy about his movement on that night.  so far

as I know, though, nothing have be discover.'



she raise her eyebrow deprecatingly.



'the detective system over here,' she remark, 'be sometimes hopeless,

ben't it?'



'yet in one respect,' Lavendale point out, 'they certainly be

prompt on that night.  I understand that Jules be intern within an

hour of the discovery of the murder.'



Miss de Freyne draw her manuscript towards she with a little shrug of

the shoulder.



'they fail to find the formula, though,' she remind he.



Lavendale, accept his dismissal, return to his place, finish his

lunch and make his way round to the Milan Mansions.  a caretaker be

establish now in his office in the hall.  he be a small and rather

melancholy-look man, who hastily conceal a blacken pipe as

Lavendale enter.



'I understand that you have a suite to let,' the latter begin, 'upon

the third floor?'



the man pull out a list.



'we have several suite to let, sir,' he reply; 'nothing upon the

third floor, though.'



'what about number thirty-two?'



the caretaker shake his head.



'number thirty-two be let, sir.'



'be you sure?' Lavendale persist.  'I call this morning and be

allow to look over it by Mr. Somers-Keyne, who have the key.'



'it be take by a young lady just before one o'clock, at our head

office,' the man tell he.  'with regard to the other suite, sir----'



'could you tell I the young lady's name?' Lavendale interrupt.



'I haven't hear it yet,' the man answer shortly.  'with regard to

the other suites----'



Lavendale slip a coin into his hand.



'thank you,' he say, 'there be no other suite in which I be interested

for the moment.'



he step out.  almost on the threshold he meet Miss de Freyne, face to

face.



'be you come,' he ask, raise his hat, 'to take possession of

your new abode?'



she be entirely at her ease.  she look at he, however, a little

curiously.  it be as though she be try to make an appreciative

estimate of he in her mind.



'I suppose,' she observe, with a little sigh, 'that we be play at

cros-purpose.  you be an American, be you not, Mr. Lavendale?'



'I be,' he answer.



'German-American?'



'no!'



'English-American?'



'no!'



'what then?'



'american.'



'tell I exactly what that mean?' she insist.



'it mean that my sympathy be concentrate upon my own country,' he

answer.  'those prefix--german-american or English-American--be

misnomer.  wherever my personal sympathy may be, my patriotism

overshadow they.  now you know the truth about I.  I be an American

for America.'



she sigh.



'yes,' she murmur, 'I have an idea that be your point of view.  I be

a Frenchwoman, you see, for France.'



'our interest,' he remark, 'should not be far apart.'



'if I be sure of that,' she declare, 'the rest would be easy.  I be

for France and for France only.  you be for America, and, I be afraid,

for America only.'



'Chance, in this instance,' he venture, 'have at any rate make we

ally.'



'I should like to feel quite sure about that,' she say.  'if you be

not busy, will you walk with I on to the Embankment?'



they stroll down the narrow street and find a seat in the garden.



'between thief,' she continue, look he in the face, 'there be

sometimes honour.  why not amongst those who be engage upon affair

which, if not nefarious, be at least secret?  let we see whether we

can be ally, and, if not, where our interest clash.  you know

perfectly well, as I do, that Jules murder that little chemist from

Chicago and steal the formula.  you know very well that the suite in

which you take so much interest in the Milan Mansions, belong to

Jules.  you know very well that he be arrest there a quarter of an

hour after he leave the hotel, and that he have have no time to dispose of

the formula.  you know that the place have be search, inch by inch,

but that the formula have not be find.'



'I have just arrive exactly as far as that myself,' Lavendale assent

mendaciously.



'you be some time behind I, but it be true that we have arrive at

the same point,' she continue.  'now the question be, can we work

together?  what should you do with the formula if ever it come into

your possession?'



his lip tighten.



'I cannot tell you that,' he say firmly.



'I believe that I know,' she go on.  'well, let I put you to the

test.'



she open a black silk bag which she be carry, a little trifle

with white velvet lining and turquoise clasp.  from a very dainty

pocket-book in the interior she draw out a crumpled sheet of paper,

cover with strange, cabalistic sign.  she smooth it out upon her

knee and hand it to he.



'well,' she exclaim, 'there it be!  now you shall tell I what you

be go to do with it?'



his hand have close over the piece of paper.  he grip it firmly.

before she could stop he he have transfer it to his own pocket.  she

shrug her shoulder.



'you have well return it to I,' she advise.



'I shall not,' he reply.  'forgive I.  I do not ask you for the

formula--I do not know you have discover it--but since I have it, I

want you to remember that it be the discovery of an American and I

shall keep it for my country.'



'but your country be not in need of anything of the sort,' she

protest.



'I will be so far frank with you as to explain my motive,' he say.  'a

few month ago I be attach to the American Embassy here.  I have

be attach to the Embassy in Paris, and for two month I be in

Berlin.  I have come to certain conclusion about America, in which I

differ entirely from the popular opinion and the popular politic of my

country.  England have be live for many year in great peril, but

there have be many who have recognize that.  the peril of America be

at least as great, and have remain almost altogether unrecognized.  we

have no army, a small navy, an immense seaboard, wealth sufficient to

excite the cupidity of any nation.  and we have no ally.  we make the

grave and serious mistake of ignore world politic, of believe

ourselves outside they and yet imagine ourselves capable of

protect the interest of american citizen in foreign country.

that be where I know we be wrong.  I have resign from the Diplomatic

Service of America but I remain her one secret agent.  I intend to keep

this formula for she.  she will need it.'



Suzanne de Freyne shake her head.



'you will not be able to leave the garden alive with it,' she assure

he.



he glance at her incredulously.  her smooth face be unwrinkle.  she

have the air of look at he as though he be a child.



'you be in the kindergarten stage of your profession,' she observe.

'now watch.  you see those two man seat on the bench a little way

far down?'



'well?'



she rise from her seat, shake out her skirt and sit down again.  the

two man, also, have rise and be advance towards they.  she hold up

her hand--they seem somehow to drift away.



'I repeat,' she go on, 'that you would not leave this garden alive.

but, my friend, we will not quarrel over a worthless scrap of paper,

for that be precisely what you have carefully button up in your

pocket-book.  I have fail to find the formula.  that be a dummy.

keep it, if you will.  there ben't a single intelligible sign upon it.'



he draw it from his pocket and glance at it.  even with his slight

knowledge of chemistry he be compel to admit that her word be

truth.



'keep it or give it I back, as you like,' she continue.  'it have no

value.  the fact remain that in his brief journey from the service

room at the Milan Grill-room to his room in the Milan Mansions, Jules

manage to conceal somewhere or other the paper which he have take from

Hurn.  if he pass it on to some one else, it be by this time in

Germany, but we have reason to know that he do not.  the paper be

still in concealment.  it be still to be find.'



'and the mean?' he ask.



she shrug her shoulder lightly.



'alas!' she exclaim, 'how can I tell you now?  how can I even engage

your help?  you have disclose your hand.'



he sit gaze gloomily out at the river.



'very well,' he decide at last, 'let I help and I will be content

with a copy of the formula.'



she smile.



'that be rather sensible of you,' she say.  'to tell you the truth, I

require your help.  for reason which I need not explain, we do not

wish this matter to be deal with in any way officially.  I be in

perfect accord with the English Secret Service, but we do not wish to

have their man see about the Milan Mansions.  to-night, Jules

re-enter into possession of his room.  I offer you an adventure.  it

be what you wish?'



'but I think Jules be intern?'



'he be and be,' she tell he, 'but the great power be work.

this afternoon he will be permit to escape--he think through the

agency of friend.  he will come to London in a motor-car, he will come

at once to his room, and, although every inch of they have be

search, I be perfectly convinced that somewhere in they or between

they and the Milan, he will lay his hand upon the formula.  you care

about this adventure?'



his eye flash.



'care about it!' he repeat enthusiastically.



she smile and rise to her foot.



'leave I now,' she beg.  'I want to speak to one of those man for a

minute.  you can dine with I in the Grill-room at the Milan at seven

o'clock, in morning clothe.  till then, _au revoir!_'



      *      *      *      *      *



the spirit of adventure warm Lavendale's blood that night.  he

order his dinner with unusual care, and he be delighted to find his

guest sufficiently human to appreciate the delicacy he have choose and

the vintage of the champagne which he have select.  their conversation

be entirely general, almost formal.  they have both live for some time

in Paris and find mutual acquaintance there.  as they near the

conclusion of the meal she be summon to the telephone.  she be

absent only for a short time but when she return she begin to collect

her few trifle.



'the car pass through Slough,' she say, 'a quarter of an hour ago.

I think perhaps we have well be move.'



Lavendale sign his bill and they leave the hotel together.



'nothing else you think you ought to tell I, I suppose?' he remark,

as they cross the narrow street.  'I be rather in the dark, you know.

the idea be, ben't it, that Jules be come up to get the formula from

some hiding-place in his room?  where shall we be?'



'wait,' she beg.



they climb the stair in silence--the girl have purposely avoid the

lift.  arrive on the third floor, she pass the door of number

thirty-two and knock softly at the adjoining one.  there be, for a

moment, no answer.  at the second summon, however, the door be

cautiously open.  the untidy secretary admit they.  in her soil

black dress, shapeless and crumple, with her fat, peevish face and

dishevel peroxidized hair, she be by no mean an attractive object.

she point half indignantly to where Mr. Somers-Keyne be lie upon

the couch, gaze towards they in incapable silence with a fatuous

smile upon his lip.



'if it's from you he get the money for this sort of thing,' she say

sharply, 'why, I wish you'd keep it, and that's straight.  how be we

to get on with our work or anything, with he in that condition?'



'Scondition'sh all right,' Mr. Somers-Keyne insist, make a weak

effort to rise.



Miss de Freyne frown for a moment as she appreciate the situation.

then she wave he back.



'don't try to get up, Mr. Somers-Keyne, she beg.  'we can manage

without you.  lie down and rest for a little time.'



Mr. Somers-Keyne sink back with a sigh of content.



'very shorry,' he murmur.  'Tree'sh awfully annoy with I.

promishe go down and shee he sh'evening.'



'be this fellow one of your helper?' Lavendale ask.



she nod.



'in a small way.  never mind, we don't need he to-night.  come here.'



she lead he to the side of the wall nearest the adjoining apartment.

her finger feel about the pattern of the paper.  presently she find a

crack, push for a moment and a slide door roll back.  she

stretch out her hand through the darkness and turn a small knob.  a

wardrobe door swung outward.  they look into the shadowy obscurity

of the adjoining room.  Lavendale whistle softly.



'this be all very well,' he say, 'but how can we watch Jules whilst

the door be close?'



she point to two or three little ventilation hole near the top of

the wardrobe.  Lavendale apply his eye to one of they and nod.



'that's all right,' he admit.  'there's just enough light.  listen!'



they could both of they hear the quick, eager footstep of a man

lightly shod, stealthy, ascend the last flight of stair.  her

finger grip his arm for a moment.  an excitement more poignant than

any begotten by their hazardous adventure suddenly thrill he.  the

great adventure of all be at hand....



the footstep pause, the door slowly open.  it be Jules who

enter.  he stand look around for a moment, then unexpectedly

finger the switch which stand upon the wall.  the apartment be

flood with light.  jule stand in the centre of it, distinctly

visible.  he be pale even than usual, and his eye be a little

sink, but he have lose, somehow or other, that bearing of graceful

servility which have distinguish he in his former avocation.  an

expression of subdue cunning have take its place.  he look around

the apartment searchingly.  his eye rest for a moment upon a small

print at the further end of the room, which be hang upon the wall

in a crooked position.  as his eye fall upon it, he frown.  he

seem suddenly to stiffen into a new attention.  he glance once more

around he as though in fear and pick up his overcoat from the bed.

before they could realize what his intention be, he have leave the

room, close the door behind he.



'what do that mean?' Lavendale whisper.



she push open the wardrobe door.  a little breath of fresher air be

grateful to both of they.  then she turn and point towards the

opposite wall.



'it be that print,' she murmur.  'it must have be a signal to he

that he be be watch.  you see, it be on one side.  I be perfectly

certain that when I be here this morning it be straight.'



'a signal from whom?'



she have no time to answer he.  they could hear the door of the next

room open.  their eye meet.



'Mr. Somers-Keyne!' he exclaim.



they step back into the wardrobe.  her finger feel for the spring.

suddenly they both hear, within a few inch of they, on the other

side of the wall, the sound of a click.  she press the spring in

vain.  then she step back and turn on the electric light in the

room.



'try the door,' she whisper.



Lavendale try it.  as they both expect, it be lock.  she draw a

master-key from her pocket and open it swiftly.  they be out in the

corridor now, empty and silent.  they could not even hear the sound of

any one move about in Mr. Somers-Keyne's room.  Lavendale stand

before the latter's door and listen.  there be a mumbling as though

of smothered voice, then suddenly an angry exclamation.



'sick of the lot of you, that's what I be!  here's the old man dictate

his rubbish for about an hour a day and talk drivel, drunken

piffle for the rest of it!  where's my salary come from, that's what

I want to know?'



they hear Jules apparently try to soothe she.



'my dear Miss Brown, in a few day, if you will only be patient----'



'Patient!  who's go to be patient with that old drunkard blithering

around all the time?  I've have enough!'



they hear the sound of stamp footstep and Mr. Somers-Keyne's

sonorous voice.



'Flora, my dear, mosht unreasonable, I'm sure.  shimply ask you go

out for a few minute while Mr. Jules and I dishcuss important matter.'



'and I'm go out for a minute,' Miss Brown shout, suddenly open

the door, 'and you may thank your star when you see I again!'



she appear upon the threshold, hold a slatternly hat upon her head

with one hand and stick hatpin in with the other.  she stare

insolently at Lavendale and his companion, and brush her way past

they.



'here's visitor for you,' she call out over her shoulder.  'you'll

have to get rid of they now before you start on your precious business.'



she flop down the stair.  the newcomer step across the

threshold.  jule stare at they in surprise.  Mr. Somers-Keyne nod

his head ponderously.  his mind seem to be still run upon Miss

Brown's departure.



'a mosht ungrateful young woman,' he declare.  'Mish--er--de Freyne,

your shervant.  thish gentleman be the tenant of the roomsh you look

over other day.  Mr. Lavendale, don't like you.  don't want you here.

ashke I question about you, Mish de Freyne.  not a nice young man at

all.  you lishen to I a moment.'



he stagger to his foot.  jule stand in the background.  there be

something of the old obsequiousness about his manner.  Mr. Somers-Keyne

sway for a moment upon his foot.  then Lavendale feel a sudden

inspiration.  he turn on his heel.



'excuse I for one moment,' he whisper to the girl by his side.



he turn away with no show of haste, though the eye of both man

seem to follow he.  then he run down the stair on tiptoe, take

they three at a time as he near the ground floor.  the motor-car be

draw up outside, there be no sign of any one else in the street.  he

spring to the other side of the way and see at once the object of his

pursuit, hurry down towards the Embankment.  he follow she as

stealthily as possible.  without look around she increase her own

pace, cross the Embankment and lean for a moment over the wall.  a

few yard far on be the step and a little pier, and close by a

small tug be wait.  Lavendale, who be within reach of she now,

stretch out his hand and seize her shoulder.



'I want you, Miss Brown!' he exclaim.



she turn and confront he, her face mottle and flush with the

unusual exercise, a strand of her unwholesome-look hair hang down

to her shoulder.



'now what's wrong with you?' she shout.  'cann't you leave I alone?

I'm not come back.'



'where be you go?' he ask.



'that's none of your business,' she snap.  'let I pass.'



he glance at the tug and his hand close upon her wrist.  he be a

strong man, but she almost succeed in wrench herself free.



'look here, Miss Brown,' he say, 'the game's up.  I want that paper

you're keep for Jules.'



she suddenly show her tooth.  her face be like the face of a wild

animal.  she struggle so violently that they sway towards the

parapet.  her left hand slip into the bosom of her gown.  before he

could stop she, her finger be make pulp of the paper which she have

draw up in crush fragment.  she throw it over the parapet into the

black water.  then she cease to struggle.  she laugh hysterically

and lean back against the wall.  the water near where the fragment

of paper have fall be all churn up--the little tug have hurry off.



'clever, ben't you?' she mock.  'any need to hold on to I any more?'



he release her wrist.  the car have come thunder down the little

street.  it suddenly pull up with a grinding of brake.  Suzanne

spring lightly out.



'the formula?' she cry.



he point downwards to the water.



'destroy!'



her sigh be almost one of relief.



'be there a tug here?' she ask eagerly.



he nod.



'it make off when they see we struggle.'



'he tell the truth, then!' she exclaim.  'jule shoot himself as soon

as he realize that the game be up--there in the room before I, a few

minute ago.  he tell I with his last breath that the formula be on

its way down the river to Germany.'



Lavendale smile grimly.



'it's on its way down the river, right enough,' he assent, 'but I

don't think it will reach Germany.'









CHAPTER III



A deal with NIKO



Lavendale pause in the act of struggle with his tie, and look

steadfastly into the mirror in front of he.  he have hear no definite

sound, yet some queer intuition seem to have suddenly awaken within

his subconscious mind a sense of the mysterious, something close at

hand, unaccountable, minatory.  his flat be empty and the catch of the

front door secure, yet he know very well that he be be watch.  he

turn slowly around.



'what the mischief----'



he break off in his sentence.  a small man, dress in black clothe,

imperturbable, yellow-skin, and with oriental type of feature, be

stand to attention, a clothe-brush in his hand.  his dark, oval

eye rest for a moment upon the crumple failure of Lavendale's tie.

without a word he take another from an open drawer, come softly across

the room and reach upwards.  before Lavendale know what be

happen, the bow which have be worry he for the last five

minute be faultlessly tie.  he glance into the mirror and be

compel to give vent to a little exclamation of satisfaction.



'that's all very well, you know,' he say, turn once more around.

'the tie's all right, but who the devil be you, and what be you do

in my room?'



the man bow.  again the Oriental seem to assert itself in the

subtle ease with which he almost prostrate himself.



'Sir,' he explain, 'I be the friend of your servant Perkins.'



'then perhaps you can tell I where on earth Perkins be?' Lavendale

demand.



'he be in the hospital, sir,' the man answer.  'he meet with a slight

accident while he and I be together.  I be his messenger.  I

undertake to bring you news of he and to do what I could, in my poor

way, to fill his place for this evening.  he lend I his key.  it be

in that manner I be able to gain entrance here.'



'an accident?' Lavendale repeat.  'what sort of an accident?'



'I choose an idle word, perhaps,' the other confess.  'it be indeed

more a matter of sudden illness.  perkin and I lunch together at the

Chinese Restaurant in Piccadilly Circus.  as we leave the place, he

falter; he faint in the passage.  I call a taxicab and take he

to the hospital.  it be not a great affair, they say, but it be

well that he should rest there.  so I come to you.'



'and who the dicken may you be?'



'my name be Niko.  I come from Japan with General Kinish, military

attaché to the Japanese Embassy.  he have go to the italian Front and

leave I without a situation.'



'you're all right at tie, any way,' Lavendale admit, glance once

more into the mirror.  'all the same, I think I can get along without a

man until Perkins come back.'



his hand seek his trouser pocket but Niko shake his head gravely.



'it be impossible,' he protest.  'perkin may be away for a week.  I

shall wait upon you until he return.  it be good.'



'well, have it your own way,' Lavendale remark.  'well answer that

bell, then.  if it be a lady, show she into the sitting-room.'



Niko glide away and return in a moment.



'the lady,' he announce, 'be in the sitting-room.'



he hold up Lavendale's coat and the latter hasten from the room.

Suzanne de Freyne be stand face the door as he enter, her

theatre cloak throw back.  he take her hand.



'you be adorably punctual!' he exclaim.



'tell I,' she ask, a little abruptly, 'how long have you have your

valet?'



'about five minute, I believe,' he answer.  'he be a substitute.  my

own man be take ill at luncheon-time.  why do you ask?'



'because he be the first person,' she explain, 'who have succeed in

puzzle I in one particular way since I can remember.'



he look at she as though for an explanation, and in a moment she

continue.



'I flatter myself that I never forget a face.  your valet be perfectly

well-know to I and yet I cannot tell you who he be.'



Lavendale glance uneasily towards the door.



'I shalln't keep he,' he say.  'I hate prejudice, but I be full of

they.  the fellow's a Jap, of course.'



Suzanne do not reply for a moment.  her attention seem to have

suddenly wander.  then she turn around with a little laugh.



'I be hungry, my friend!' she exclaim.  'let we go.  and yet,

remember this.  temporary servant be bad thing for people who follow

our profession.'



they leave the room.  Niko be stand with the front door wide open,

his master's hat and glove in his hand.



'I will be here at seven o'clock in the morning, sir,' he promise,

'and bring news of Perkins.'



Lavendale nod.  the door be close softly behind they.  at the

bottom of the stair he glance up.



'wish I could get rid of the ridiculous idea I have about that fellow,'

he remark.



'be there anything in your room of particular--I will not say value, I

will say interest?' she inquire.



'I suppose I have the usual amount of valuable,' he admit, 'but

Perkins be a very careful servant, and I be sure he would never have

send any one who ben't reliable.  as regard my paper and that sort

of thing, they be all lock up in a safe with a combination lock.'



she do not pursue the subject and it fade quickly from Lavendale's

mind.  they dine in a quiet corner at the Milan and they talk of

many thing, chiefly the war.



'do you realize,' he ask she, towards the end of their meal, 'that

you be still a complete mystery to I?'



she nod affably.



'yes?'



'you know what I mean, of course,' he go on.  'three week ago we

join hand for a moment.  we be--may I not use the

word?--associates.  we be not, perhaps, completely successful in our

enterprise, but at least we prevent that marvellous secret from ever

reach an enemy's hand.  then you disappear.  I hear nothing from

you until your voice startle I down the telephone to-night--you want

to dine with I.  well, I be your slave and here I be, but tell I,

where have you be all this time?'



'in France,' she answer.



'and what have you be do?'



'attend to my own business.'



'and what be that?' he ask coolly.



she raise her eyebrow but her air of offence be obviously assume.

she light a cigarette and watch the smoke for a minute.  he be

absorb in the study of her hand--her unusually firm yet delicate

finger, ringless save for one large, quaintly-cut emerald.



'in my life,' she say, 'I have no confidant.'



'that seem a pity,' he reply.  'we might be useful to one another.'



'I be not so sure,' she answer thoughtfully.  'for instance, although

we speak together in English, my soul be french.  I be for France and

France only.  England be our very dear ally.  England be a splendid and

an honourable nation, but it be France's future welfare in which I be

concern, and not England's.  you, on the other hand, be Saxon.

England and America, after all, be very close together.'



'great mistake of your life,' he assure she.  'I have a great

respect for England and a great liking for english people, and I

believe that she be drag into this war without want it, but, on

the other hand, as I tell you once before, I be for America and America

only.  England have ask for what she be get for a good many year.

if even she get a good hiding it willn't do she any harm.'



'but America be so far outside,' she observe.



'don't you make any mistake,' he answer promptly.  'the world grow

small, year by year.  the America of fifty year ago have become

impossible to-day.  we have our political interest in every country,

and, however slow and unwilling we may be to take up our

responsibility, we've get to come into line with the other great

Powers and use the same method.'



'you may be right,' she confess.  'very well, then, you be for

America and I be for France.  now tell I, as between Germany and

England how be your sympathy?'



'with England, without a doubt,' he pronounce.  'Mind, I be not a

rabid anti-german.  I be not in the least sure that a nation with the

great genius for progress that Germany have show be not to some extent

justify by take up the sword to hew a large place in the world for

her own people.  but that do not affect my answer to your question.

my sympathy be with England.'



she flick the ash from her cigarette.  she be look a little

languidly across the room towards a table set against the wall.



'if your sympathy be a little strong,' she remark quietly, 'I

could show you how to render England an incalculable service.'



'tell I how?'



'first of all,' she continue, 'look at those three man and tell I

what you think of they?'



he turn a little in his place and glance towards the table which she

have indicate.  one of the three man who be seat at it be

obviously a foreigner.  his hair be grey towards the temple, although

his moustache be almost jet-black; his cheek-bone be high, his

tooth a little prominent.  he wear evening clothe of the most correct

cut, his shirt and link be unexceptionable.  his two companion be

man of a different stamp.  the one who seem to dominate the party be

a huge man, clean-shaven, with puffy face and small eye.  he wear a

dark flannel suit of transatlantic cut.  he be drink a large whisky

and soda and smoke a cigar, and have apparently eat nothing.  his

companion be of small build, with flaxen moustache and hair, and

dress in light grey clothe and yellow boot.  on the face of it, the

trio be ill-assorted.



'well, I should say,' Lavendale remark, 'that the dark man in the

corner chair be a foreigner--a Russian, for choice.  the other two

be, of course, american business man.  the face of the big man seem

familiar to I.'



'you've probably see his picture in the illustrate paper,' she tell

he.  'that be Jacob P. Weald.  he be once call, I believe, the

powder king.'



Lavendale nod.  his manner have become more interested.



'of course,' he murmur.  'and that's Jenkins, the secretary to the

Weald Company.  I wonder who the third man be?'



'his name be Ossendorf--the Baron Cyril Ossendorf.  he be a _persona

grata_ at the Russian Embassy and he own great estate in Poland.'



'stop!' Lavendale exclaim.  'this be get interesting.  he be

buy munition, of course.'



'marvellous!' she murmur.



'don't chaff I--it's really interesting.'



'yes,' she admit, 'it be interesting even from its external point of

view.  you be right.  the Baron be probably give, or have give, an

enormous order for ammunition.  yet there be something behind that

little conference, if only we could probe it, more interesting than you

would believe, my friend.'



she pause.  he wait eagerly, but she be silent for an unusually

long time.



'you be suggest,' he venture to remind she, 'a few minute ago,

that there be some way in which intervention----'



she lean a little towards he.  her hand rest for a second upon his.



'I have come to the conclusion,' she say, speak very softly, 'that

one of we, either you or I, must kill Ossendorf.'



he begin to laugh and then stop suddenly.  a little shiver run

through he.  for a single second her face be almost the face of a

tigress.  he feel that his laugh be a mistake.



'you be in earnest!' he mutter.



she rise from the table, gather up her belonging and allow he to

arrange her cloak about her shoulder.



'except that I retract that possible alternative,' she say calmly.  'I

shall deal with Ossendorf myself.'



'but I don't understand,' he persist.



'how should you?' she answer, smile.



'by the by, where be we go?  we speak of a music hall, don't we?'



'I have a box at the empire,' he tell she.



she be step by he into the taxi when she suddenly pause.  she

frame seem to become rigid.



'the empire,' he tell the driver.



she turn suddenly around.



'your room,' she direct.  'tell he to drive at once to your room.'



he be startle, but he obey she without hesitation.  a moment later

he take his place by her side.



'that valet of your!' she exclaim.



'what about he?'



'I tell you that I know his face.  I have just remember.'



'well?'



'a year ago he be an attaché at the Japanese Embassy.  his name be

Baron Komashi.'



Lavendale be mystify.



'be you sure?' he ask incredulously.



'perfectly certain,' she insist.



'but why on earth should he be a friend of Perkins and willing to act

as my valet?'



'it's the eternal game,' she declare, 'and they be clever at it, too,

the Japs.  tell I, have you any paper of special value about just

now?'



'yes, in my safe,' he admit, 'but no one else have an idea of the

combination.'



'combination!' she scoff.  'Niko Komashi, too!  tell I, be these

paper political which you have inside that safe?'



'in a measure, yes!' he assent.



they have reach the street in which his room be situate.



'there be no light in my room,' he say, as they ascend the stair.

'Niko must have do his work and go home.'



'yes,' she murmur, 'he have do his work, without a doubt.  he have a

knack of do that.'



Lavendale produce his latch-key.  the room appear to be empty and

in darkness.  in the sitting-room he unlock his safe and peer in.

one by one he examine his paper.  everything be in perfect order.

he turn back to his companion.



'nothing have be disturb,' he announce confidently.



she come over towards he, put her head for a moment inside the safe

and immediately withdraw it.



'Niko have be through these paper during your absence,' she declare.

'if everything be there, it be because he have no need to steal.  he have

examine or make copy of what he choose.'



'how do you know this?' he ask incredulously.



'it be quite simple,' she explain.  'even the clever man in the

world seem always to forget one thing.  Niko forget that his clothe

and finger, even his breath, have always that peculiar oriental

perfume.  what be it like--half almond-blossom, half sandalwood?'



'I remember I notice it when he come in,' Lavendale agree quickly.



'put your head inside that safe again,' she direct.



he obey at once.  when he emerge, his face be troubled.  he lock

the door mechanically.



'you be right,' he say.



they be silent for a moment.  Lavendale be contemplate the lock in

a daze manner.  he turn to Suzanne.  she have seat herself in his

easy-chair and have throw back her cloak.



'you be go to tell I,' he remind she, 'about this fellow Niko.

you have an idea about he.'



'mine be no idea,' she reply.  'it be a certainty.  the man who pose

this evening as your temporary valet, the man who in your absence have

open your safe, why, it be Baron Niko Komashi.  he belong to one of

the most aristocratic family of Japan.'



'but he be a member of the Servants' Club!' Lavendale expostulate.

'he be a friend of Perkins--my servant!'



'Ostensibly,' she say dryly.  'he come over here as first secretary to

the Embassy.  then he disappear.  no one quite know what have become

of he.  I once have a suspicion.  now I know.  you and I, my friend,

be bungler at the game he play.'



once more Lavendale be look at the lock--unscratched, bear so

sign of having be tamper with.



'the thing be a miracle,' he mutter.



'tell I--unless you would rather not,' she ask, lean a little

forward, 'be there any document in that safe likely to be of

particular interest to the Japanese Secret Service?'



Lavendale's face be dark with mingled shame and humiliation.



'there be just the one document that should have be keep from they

at all cost,' he declare bitterly.  'two year ago I write a series

of article for an American Sunday paper upon our military

unpreparedness.  I don't know that they do any particular good, but,

anyway, it's a subject I have study closely.  that paper I have my

finger on just now contain every possible scrap of information as to

our stand army, our volunteer force, our artillery, our possible

scheme of defence on the west and the east, our stock of munition, and

our expenditure of same per thousand man.  there be also an air and

naval report and a scheme for mine San Francisco Harbour.'



she lean back in her chair and laugh.



'most interesting!  I can quite understand how Niko's eye would gleam!

... what's that?'



she turn her head suddenly.  Lavendale, too, have start, and with a

swift movement forward have touch the switch and plunge the room into

darkness.  they hear the soft click of the latch and the opening and

closing of the front door.  they hear the soft footstep of the

intruder across the hall.  the door of the room in which they be be

quietly open and close.  still with that same amazing stealthiness,

a small, dark figure cross the room and stand before the safe.  then

there be a pause, several breathless moment of silence.  Niko's

instinct be tell he that he be not alone.  once more Lavendale's

finger touch the switch and the light blaze out.  Niko be

stand, the knob of the safe in his hand, his head turn towards

they.



the sudden light have a common effect upon all of they.  Suzanne for a

moment hold her hand in front of her eye.  Niko blink slightly.

then he draw himself up to his full height of five foot four.  he stand

in front of the safe with his eye fix upon Lavendale, something

about his face and attitude bear a curious resemblance to a statue

carve in wax.  Lavendale cough.



'you remind I, Baron Komashi,' he say, 'of an old English

proverb--the pitcher that go once too often to the well, you know.

be it something you have forget that bring you back?  no, stay

where you be, please.'



Niko remain motionless.  Lavendale move to a long, open cupboard

which stand against the wall, open it and grope about amongst its

content for a moment.  then he swing the door to and slip some

cartridge into the little revolver which he have take from the top

shelf.  Niko's muscle suddenly seem to relax.  ever so slightly he

shrug his shoulder.  it be the gesture of a supreme philosophy.



'there's no need for a row,' Lavendale go on.  'the game you and I

be play at, Baron Komashi, require finesse rather than muscle.  by

a stroke of genius you have read a certain document in that safe.  that

document be naturally of interest to the representative of the one

country with whom America might possibly quarrel.'



Niko bow his sleek head.



'I have read the document,' he confess.  'it be my business here to

read it.  and now?'



'there you have I,' Lavendale admit.  'it be a document, without a

doubt, of great interest to you, and your Government will highly

appreciate a résumé of its content.  at the same time, the only way to

stop your making use of your information be to kill you.'



the man's face be like the face of a sphinx.  Suzanne lean a little

far back in her chair and cross her leg.



'it be a fortunate century in which you pursue your career, Baron,' she

observe, 'and perhaps a fortunate country.  these little qualm about

human life which I can clearly see be influence Mr. Lavendale,

scarcely exist, even now, amongst your people, do they?'



'we be as yet,' Niko reply suavely, 'free, I be thankful to say,

from the cowardice of the west.'



'if I ask you for your word of honour,' Lavendale continue, 'that

you would not use that information?



'I might give it you,' Niko acknowledge, 'but my country's service be

a high thing than my personal honour, therefore it would do you no

good.  I shall be frank with you.  there be no way you can prevent my

report be duly make except by kill I.  I be here, a

self-confess robber.  if I be in your place, I should shoot.'



'the cowardice of the west, you see,' Lavendale remark, throw his

revolver upon the table.  'you have well get out of the room.  I might

change my mind.'



for a moment Niko make no movement.  Suzanne rise to her foot and light a

cigarette.



'as a matter of curiosity,' she ask, 'tell we why you return,

Baron?'



he bow.



'the Empire performance be not over until half-past eleven,' he

explain, 'and it be barely ten o'clock.  I have some faint misgiving

as to the resetting of the lock.  I come back to examine it.  that be

my answer.  you speak now of curiosity.  I, too, have curiosity.  will

you tell I how you know that I have open the safe?'



she smile and lift she handkerchief for a moment to her lip.

Niko's head be bent as though in humiliation.



'it be so hard to outgrow one's error,' he sigh.



he look towards Lavendale and Lavendale point impatiently towards

the door.  he take a step or two in that direction, then he pause.



'Sir,' he say, look back, 'because your method be not mine,

believe I that I still can appreciate their mistaken chivalry.  the

information I have gain I shall use.  no promise of mine to the

contrary would avail you.  but there be, perhaps, some return which I

might offer, more valuable, perhaps, to mademoiselle, yet of some

import to you also.'



Suzanne lean a little forward.  her cigarette burn idly between her

finger.



'in this great conflict,' Niko continue, 'whose reverberation shake

the earth, Japan watch from afar off.  there be few who know the

reason, but there be a reason.  let that pass.  my country lay no seal

upon my lip.  what I know I pass on to you.  a hundred million

cartridge and five thousand ton of heavy ammunition, which might

otherwise have reach Russia, be lie now at the bottom of the

ocean.  this be the doing of one man, a man in the pay of Germany, a

man who be the great traitor the world have ever know.'



'Ossendorf!' Suzanne cry.



Niko bow and move towards the door.



'Mademoiselle have suspect, perhaps,' he conclude.  'it be I who can

assure she that her suspicion be just.  the great plant in America

be keep produce munition by day and night, buy with russian gold

but never mean to reach their destination.  it be well?'



he look at Lavendale, his hand upon the door.  Lavendale nod

curtly.



'it be well,' he say.



      *      *      *      *      *



Mr. Jacob P. Weald smooth out the document which he have be

examine and draw a deep sigh of satisfaction.



'Say, Ed,' he remark, turn to his secretary, who be smoke a

cigar at the other end of the room, 'that's worth a cool million apiece

for we, that contract.'



'hope there's no hitch,' the other reply anxiously.  'what's this

young fellow from the Embassy want?'



'nothing to hurt we,' Weald assure he.  'we're all right with the

authority all round.  I'm glad, Ed, we do the square thing.  we've

have it straight from the British War Office to go right along ahead and

give Russia everything we can turn out.  well, Russia's go to have

it, and, by gum, there's enough ammunition provide for in that

contract to make mincemeat of the whole German Army!'



there be a knock at the door of the sitting-room and a servant

announce Mr. Ambrose Lavendale.  Lavendale, follow closely behind,

shake hand at once with the two man.



'I've hear of your plant, Mr. Weald,' he say pleasantly.  'wonderful

thing you've be do in the way of produce ammunition, they tell

I.  be unlucky some with your shipment, though, haven't you?'



'that's so,' the other admit, 'but that's not our fault.  we don't

come in there.  our friend have their own steamship, eleven of they,

buy for the job.'



'lose two out of three already, haven't they?' Lavendale remark.



'say, you seem some wise, young man,' Mr. Weald say pleasantly.

'however, I get the note from the boss.  what can we do for you?'



'a very small thing,' Lavendale reply.  'I understand that Baron

Ossendorf be come here to sign that contract at twelve o'clock.'



'you're dead right, sir,' Mr. Weald admit, 'and there's a magnum of

the good standing there in the ice, wait for the psychological

moment.'



'mind my be present and ask he one question--just one?'

Lavendale inquire.



'we ben't likely to object to anything you want to do, young fellow,'

Mr. Weald assure he.  'Ed Jenkins there--he's secretary of the

company--and I, have get no crooked idea about this business.  we be

go to bring a few million dollar into our own pocket, but we be

go to do it on the straight.  what our Ambassador over here say,

go, and his note ask we to take you into this.'



there be a knock at the door.  Ossendorf be announce and promptly

enter.  he hold out a hand each to Weald and Jenkins.  then he

glance inquiringly at Lavendale.



'this be a young friend of our from the American Embassy,' Mr. Weald

explain.  'Mr. Ambrose Lavendale--Baron Ossendorf.  he's a kind of

witness that all's right and above-board.'



Baron Ossendorf bow and hold out his long, elegantly-shape hand.



'I be delighted, Mr. Lavendale,' he say, 'delight that you should be

a participator in our little business this morning.  between Russia and

America there have always be the most cordial sentiment of

friendship.  it be a pleasure to we to think that we be able, at these

terrible time, to be of service to one another....  you have the

contract, Mr. Weald?  ah!' he add, glance at it through his

eyeglass, 'I see that this be the draft which I have already peruse.

nothing remain, then, but for I to sign it.'



he dip his pen in the ink, stoop down and there be a moment's

silence whilst his pen splutter across the paper.  Mr. Weald begin to

cut the string of the magnum of champagne.



'just one moment,' Lavendale interpose.  'there be a little condition,

Baron, which it be not propose to put officially into the agreement, a

very small matter, but may I suggest it to you?'



Ossendorf turn his head.  his eye have narrow a little.



'by all mean, sir.'



'the contract,' Lavendale continue slowly, 'be for the whole

production of the Weald Plant for six month, with option of

continuance until the end of the war.  shipment be to be make weekly

by steamer whose name be give there, steamer practically acquire

by the russian Government.'



'you be well inform, my young friend,' Ossendorf admit quietly.



'it have be suggest,' Lavendale say, speak slowly and look

Ossendorf in the face, 'that you should change the wireless operator on

all those vessel for a person approve by the British Government.'



there be a moment's deep silence.  Mr. Weald have pause with his knife

already press against the last string of the bottle.  Jenkins be

stand with his mouth open, a little daze.  Ossendorf shrink back as

though he have receive a blow.  it be obvious that he retain his

composure with an effort.



'what do you mean?' he demand.



'simply this,' Lavendale reply firmly.  'already the _Iris_ and the

_Southern Star_, with enough ammunition on board to have supply an

army, have go to the bottom.  I mean, sir, that every one of those

remain nine boat on which be to be pack the whole production of

the great ammunition plant in America, be doom to go to the

bottom.'



two great drop of sweat have break out on Ossendorf's forehead.  his

face seem suddenly to have grow thin.  his mouth be open.  he

glare at Lavendale, but he be utterly incapable of speech.  the

latter turn to Weald.



'Mr. Weald,' he say, 'this contract for your entire output can be

sign within twenty-four hour, either by a representative of Russia

other than Baron Ossendorf, or by the secretary of the British Munition

Board.  this man Ossendorf be a pay traitor--the Judas of the war.'



Mr. Weald be incapable of coherent speech.



'you mean,' jenkin falter, 'that he be in the pay of Germany?'



'ask he!' Lavendale suggest scornfully.



Ossendorf seem to wither up.  he stagger to his foot and grope to

the door.  suddenly something flash in his hand, clasp tightly

between they.  there be a loud report, the room seemed fill with

smoke.  they all three look in a daze manner at the figure stretch

upon the carpet, face downward, the shoulder still twitch

slightly.  Lavendale stand with his finger upon the bell.



'sorry to have interfere, Mr. Weald,' he say, 'but your stuff's

want somewhere else--not at the bottom of the sea.' ...





Ossendorf's body be carry away.  it be very well understand that

the matter be to be hush up.  Lavendale linger with Mr. Weald, who

be walk restlessly about the room, still scarcely able to realize

what have happen.



'poor devil!' he keep on muttering.  'poor devil!'



Lavendale lay his hand firmly upon his compatriot's shoulder.



'look here, Mr. Weald,' he say, 'there be good and bad of every

nation--Germans, Americans, English, or French.  this man be outside

the pale.  he be a black and dastardly traitor, the pariah of

humanity, he traffic with the life of human being, he be a

murderer for gold.  if anything, his end be too merciful.'



Mr. Weald nod reflectively.  Lavendale's word be convincing.  his

eye wander towards the champagne bottle upon the sideboard.  he be

feel the strain.



'in that case,' he murmur, 'perhaps----'









CHAPTER IV



GENERAL MATRAVERS REPAYS



Mademoiselle Suzanne de Freyne be travel back to England in hot

haste.  on the french train she receive courtesy rarely extend in

these day to any solitary passenger, and at Boulogne she be hurry

from the gangway of the steamer back on to the dock and into an

evil-look, four-funnel british destroyer.  almost as she set foot

on board, they move away from the landing-stage.  an officer come

forward to meet she and salute.



'the Captain's cabin be at your disposal, Miss de Freyne,' he

announce.  'we have an invalided General on board, but we've tuck

he up in a bunk.  Afraid we shall give you a bit of a shake up.'



'I be a very good sailor,' Suzanne assure he.  'it be delightful that

I be able to come across with you.  time count for so much, these

day.'



'we haven't any stewardess,' the young officer remark, as he threw

open the door of the cabin.  'you'll ring the bell for anything you

want, though.  parson be an awfully good fellow.  and you'll excuse

I, willn't you?  I'm on duty.'



he hurry up on deck, and in a few moment the destroyer be clear of

the harbour and tear across the Channel into the sombre blackness of

the night.  huge wave, with a thunderous roar, sweep her deck.  the

spray leapt high above the top of her squat funnel, from which

flash little jet of flame.  Suzanne, drive from the cabin by the

craving for air, stand half-way up the companion-way, look into the

blackness.  here and there, a star seem to reel across the face of

the sky and more than once a cloud of spray sweep over her head.

unhesitatingly, as though drive by some superhuman hand, they plough

their way through the black wall of space to their destination.  after

the turmoil of the Channel, their slow gliding up to the side of the

dock seem almost ghostlike.  Suzanne feel almost as though she

herself be breathless as she stand at last upon the soak deck.

there be a couple of dim light and a few shadowy figure upon the

quay.  the young officer who have speak to she at Boulogne, stand by

her side.



'we be throw a gangway across for you, Miss de Freyne.  I'm afraid

we give you rather a rough crossing.



'I do not mind it,' she declare.  'I be only anxious to come quickly.

do you know if I shall be able to get on to London at once?'



'there will be a special for the General,' he tell she.  'they'll

probably take you, too.'



the gangway be throw across.  the young man salute, and Suzanne

step on to the rain-sodden dock.  an official step up to she at

once.



'Miss de Freyne?' he inquire.



'yes?'



'there be a special waiting here for General Matravers.  I have have

instruction to attach a coach for you.'



'that be very delightful!' she exclaim.  'shall I follow you?'



the man pilot she across the track and hand she into an ordinary

first-class compartment attach to the waiting train.



'sorry we've have to give the saloon to General Matravers,' he

explain.  'will you have any tea or coffee, or anything to eat?'



she give an order to the refreshment boy whom he summon, and throw

herself down with a sigh of content into the corner seat.  presently a

tall man in khaki, with his arm in a sling and lean upon a stick,

come up the platform, follow by two junior officer.  he be show at

once into the saloon and a little murmur of animate conversation

arise.  five minute later the train glide away, leave the two

junior officer disconsolate upon the long, wooden platform; pass

through the two station, and, gather speed at every moment, rush

away northward.



Suzanne have more than once boast that she have no nerve.  she

finish her coffee and sandwich, light a cigarette and curl herself

up in her corner.  for a few moment she look out into the darkness,

watch the scanty light.  then her eye turn, entirely by chance,

towards the door which connect her carriage with the saloon.  they

have no soon rest upon it than a queer, inexplicable sense of

uneasiness creep over she.  she try to look away from it, to look out

of the opposite window, to interest herself in the evening paper.  she

read a line or two, then find herself slowly lower the sheet, find

herself peer over the top towards that closed door of dark red

mahogany with its brass handle.  she throw the paper down, walk to

the end of the carriage and back again.  she must be go mad, she

tell herself.  the only occupant of that saloon be a wound soldier

of great distinction, a General whose deed in the early stage of

the war have make history.  he be alone there without even an A.D.C.,

and in any case the door be probably lock.  what cause of uneasiness

for she could there be in his proximity?  she fight against her fit of

nerve valiantly, but she find herself tear the paper into small

piece, crumble the remain of her roll between her finger, sip

desperately the remnant of her cold coffee.  and all the time her eye

seemed glue upon that brass door-knob.  if it should move!  she set

her tooth to keep from scream.  when the thing really happen, it

seem to bring, to a certain extent, release from her hysterical

fear.  yet for the first few second it paralyze she.  the handle

turn, slowly and deliberately.  the door be push open towards she.

a man look in, stoop by reason of his height, a lean, gaunt man

clothe in the uniform of a General.  he look at she for a moment

without speech.  then he come into the compartment and close the door

behind he.



'what do you want?' she ask hoarsely.



he salute mechanically.



'I be General Matravers,' he announce.  'may I sit down?'



she glance at the communication cord--it be on the distant side of

the carriage.  why she should have be afraid of he she could not

tell, yet she feel as though she have never be in such danger in her

life as when he take the seat opposite to she.



'I be General Matravers,' he repeat.  'you have hear of I, perhaps?'



'but naturally,' she assent.  'we have all read of your wonderful

exploit at Mons.'



he moisten his lip with his tongue.  his face seem curiously dry

up, his eye be hard, his feature grim and bony.  he present

somehow a queer impression of lifelessness.



'Mons!' he mutter ruminatingly.  'you've never be to Hell, have

you, young lady?'



'not yet,' she answer, watch he closely.



'that be the beginning of it,' he go on.  'we need a Dante, young

lady, to sing to we of those day, when the wind be drive from the

face of the earth by the screeching of the shell and the roar and the

clash of the gun, and they seem to be always near....  every foot

of ground be red with blood, the blood of our dear soldier, and one

thought of the people at home....  I know man who lose their reason at

Mons.'



'it must have be terrible,' she falter.



he sit opposite to she, nervously open and close the interlocked

finger of his hand.



'you know why I be come home?' he ask abruptly.  'medal enough

here, you see, for a field-marshal, and I be send home in disgrace.'



she murmur something to which he pay no attention whatever.



'I leave my two A.D.C.'s at folkestone,' he go on, 'forbid they to

enter the train.  they be worried about I.  perhaps they be right.

you see, it be at--but we don't mention name--my headquarters last

week.  it be the night before our advance.  you read about that.  I

willn't mention the name of the place.  we call it a partial success.

but for the thing I be go to tell you, it might have be the

turn point of the war.  the attack fail--my fault.'



'I read that your division do splendidly,' she remark.



again he moisten his dry lip.  his hand be shake now by his

side; he seem like a man on the verge of paralysis.



'this be what happen,' he continue. 'I be at headquarters, my own

headquarters.  my orderly report a Staff Officer from the french

headquarters.  he come in, a typical-looking young french soldier,

wear the uniform of one of their good regiment, one of those which

I know be in the division which be to join up with ours in the

morning.  he be tall and dark, with a thin, black moustache, long,

narrow eye, a scar on his right cheek, sallow, and with a queer habit

of swinge his left arm.  he bring I some intelligible, perfectly

coherent verbal instruction, ask a few question as to my plan for

the next day, give I a personal message from the french General

command the division, salute, get back into his motor-car and drive

off.  and I think no more about it until we find out that our whole

scheme of attack be know to the enemy, and that they be prepare

for we at every point.  he be a German.  we be sell.  thousand of

my man be lose through that.  my fault.  he be a German.  be you a

german, young lady?'



'ah, but no!' she exclaim, shrink a little back.



'you be not wholly english.'



'I be half french and half english,' she tell he.



'the French be good people,' he go on, relapse into his former

far-away tone, 'very fine people.  they can fight too, and they can

tell Germans when they see they.  that be why I be go home--because

I couldn't.  I've swear that the next German I see, I'll kill.  you're

not a German, be you?'



'I tell you just now,' she remind he quietly, 'that I be half french

and half English--mostly french.  I be in the service of the french

Government at the present moment, try to help you, General.'



'good girl,' he say absently.  'I think there might have be a

german in here when I hear some one move.  if I cann't find one, I

suppose I must shoot myself.'



he take out a little revolver and examine it.  he open the breech

and she see that it be fully load.



'may I look?' she ask.



he hand it to she at once.  the window by which they sit be half

down.  she calmly throw it out.  he look at she in a mildly-vex

manner.



'you should not have do that, young lady,' he expostulate.  'I be

very fond of that revolver.  besides, how be I to kill myself now?'



'I should wait,' she advise he.  'when you get to London you will

easily find german--too many of they.'



he shake his head.



'but I've nothing to kill they with, and I've leave my army behind.  I

be send home,' he add, with a sudden hoarse pathos.



her sense of personal fear have pass.  she know that the dangerous

moment, if indeed there have be one, lie behind.



'there be so much work to be do in England,' she say.



he seem to be look through the carriage window; his hand be

twitch horribly.



'those night,' he mutter, 'when we think that an hour's rest have

come, and the red fire came spit from our flank just when we

think ourselves safe, when we think they far and away behind----'



his word become unintelligible.  he sit quite quiet.  presently, to

her joy, she see a carpet of light on either side and know that they

be run into London.



'you have well get back to your saloon,' she say.  'we shall be at

Charing Cross in a few minute, and there will probably be some one to

meet you.'



he rise obediently to his foot.  the tear be in her eye as he

turn away with a stiff little salute, and, stoop low, disappear

through the doorway.  then she lean back with a long-draw sigh of

relief.  it be a strange little episode, another of the little

adventure which give colour to her life.  she lean out of the window

and see the last of he as they draw up.  he be meet by an officer and

an elderly lady.  she see he pass out and take his place in a waiting

motor-car.  then she step out herself, hand her bag to a porter

and be conduct to a taxicab.



      *      *      *      *      *



Suzanne sit, the next afternoon, under the tree at Ranelagh with

Lavendale.  she lean back in her chair and breathe a little sigh of

contentment.



'and you, my friend,' she ask, 'what have you be do?



'nothing,' he answer.  I be wait for a man to arrive from America.

his come, I fancy, will provide I with work, but until then there be

nothing for I.  to pass the time while you be in France, I go over

to Holland last week.'



she nod.



'the one country leave which may provide we with a sensation,' she

remark.  'I suppose that be why you go.'



'I make a few inquiry,' he reply.  'my own impression of the people

be that they want peace very badly and Schnapps more than anything

else in the world.'



she laugh softly.  it be significant of his attitude towards she

that he ask no question of her own doing.



'I have a curious adventure on my way back from Paris yesterday,' she

tell he.  'I travel up from Boulogne in a special with General

Matravers.'



'matraver?' he repeat.  'ben't he one of the british Generals who

have be send home?'



'I believe so,' she assent, 'in fact I be sure of it.  he tell I the

whole story on the way up.  afterwards he bring out a revolver and

swear that he be go to shoot himself.'



'what on earth do you do?' he exclaim.



'I take it away from he,' she reply.  'he ben't in the least

dangerous, really.'



'look here,' Lavendale declare earnestly, 'I think it's quite time you

leave off this travel about alone.'



she laugh gaily.



'but, my friend,' she protest, 'what would you have?  can a trust

agent'--she glance around for a moment and lower her voice--'of the

French and English Secret Service engage a chaperon?'



'I don't care,' he answer, a little doggedly.  'it's all very well

for we man to take a risk or two, but it's no sort of life for a

girl----'



she check he at once.



'you don't understand,' she interrupt.  'I be a daughter of France.

every drop of blood in my body, every part of myself, my soul, even,

belong to my country.  the work I be do I shall go on with,

whatever it might cost I.'



he do not attempt to argue with she, the finality of her tone be too

absolute.



'I suppose it be because of this spirit,' he say, 'that France be

invincible.  tell me----'



he break off in his sentence.  her finger have suddenly grip his

arm, she have lean forward in her place.  come down the step on to

the terrace be a little group of soldier in staff uniform.  one of

they, in the centre of the group, be obviously a foreigner, and, from

the respect with which they all treat he, a person of distinction.



'who be they?' she ask.



'I expect they be member of the military mission from France,' he

explain.  'they be be entertain down here to dinner to-night by

some official from the War Office.  the head-waiter tell I about it.

I tackle he about a table in case you care to stay down.'



'but only one of they be a foreigner,' she observe.



he shrug his shoulder.



'I really don't know anything more about it,' he say.  'I don't

suppose any one do.  why be you so interested?'



she say nothing for a moment.  the Frenchman be stand chat

amiably in the centre of the terrace, and Suzanne watch he with

curious intensity.  he be tall, he have a slight black moustache, his

eye be long and narrow, there be a scar on his right cheek.  he be

the very prototype of the man who have arise in her mind a few hour

ago, call into be by those hoarse, break-hearte word of the

ruin General.



'I must know his name,' she insist.



he look at she wonderingly.



'but, my dear----'



'I must know his name,' she repeat.  'please help I.  don't ask I

why.'



he rise at once.



'I'll do my good,' he promise she.



he disappear into the house.  the little party of man stroll

backwards and forwards along the terrace.  in about five minute

Lavendale reappear.  he smile as he approach.



'I get hold of the dinner card,' he announce in triumph.  'his name

be Lieutenant-Colonel Leychelles.'



the little company of soldier at that moment begin to descend the

step.  Suzanne rise to her foot and, stand under the shadow of the

tree, she lean forward.  the man whom she have be watch with so

much interest, be distinctly swinge his left arm.  she grip

Lavendale by the elbow.



'come with I,' she insist.  'come with I at once.  take I up to

town.'



he obey promptly.  they pass through the house and Lavendale

order up his car.



'where to?' he ask, as he take his place at the drive wheel.



'I must find General Matravers,' she declare.  'drive up towards

London.  I must think as we go.'



they glide down the drive, over Hammersmith Bridge and up to the Park.



'don't you belong to a club somewhere?' she ask.  'we must get a

who's who.'



'why, of course,' he answer.  'we can manage that easily enough.'



he pull up presently outside the door of the Bath Club in Dover

Street.



'if you'll wait here for half a moment,' he suggest.



she nod and he spring down and run lightly up the step.  he be

back again almost at once.



'the first name I come across,' he announced,--'17 Belgrave Square be

the town address.  shall I drive there?  it's quite close.'



she assent.  in a few moment they arrive at their destination.

Suzanne stand under the stone portico and rang the bell.  in due course

a butler appear.



'General Matravers be not see anybody, madam,' be his prompt reply

to Suzanne's inquiry.  'the doctor have order he complete rest.'



'my business,' Suzanne explain, 'be very urgent.'



'so every reporter who have be here to-day have tell I,' the man

reply a little wearily.  'no one have be allow to see he.'



'be Lady Matravers in?' Suzanne persist.



'Lady Matravers be not receive.  perhaps you would like to leave your

name and a message, madam?' the man suggest.



a tall, dark-haired woman, who have be cross the hall, pause.  she

come a few step towards Suzanne.



'I be Lady Matravers,' she announce, 'can I do anything for you?'



Suzanne press forward and the butler stand on one side.



'Lady Matravers,' the former say earnestly, I have the most important

business with your husband.  I know he be ill--I come up from

folkestone with he yesterday--and yet I must see he.'



'you be his companion in the special train?' Lady Matravers ask.

'he speak of a young lady who travel up with he.'



'I be the young lady,' Suzanne assent.  'I be in the Secret Service

of France,' she go on, drop her voice a little.  'your husband

tell I some curious thing last night.  it be in connection with one

of they that I wish to see he.  it ben't for my own sake, Lady

Matravers.  it be for the sake of the country.'



the door be throw open.  General Matravers, lean upon his stick,

come into the hall.  he be look very white and shaken, but he

seem to recognize Suzanne.  he look at she doubtfully.



'it be the young lady whom I find last night in the carriage attach

to my saloon,' he remark, 'the young lady, my dear,' he add,

turn to his wife, 'who throw my revolver out of the window.'



Lady Matravers glance towards the servant who be linger in the

background and lead Suzanne back into the room from which she herself

have issue.  the General follow she.  a quiet-faced woman in nurse's

uniform rise from a chair as they enter.



'if you be really the young lady who travel with my husband from

folkestone last night,' Lady Matravers say kindly, 'I be very glad

indeed to meet you.  he have tell I such very nice thing about you.

the doctor's order be that he be not to be disturb on any account,

but if you wish to speak to he for a few minute, here he be.  I be

just try to persuade he to go to bed when you come.'



'perhaps what I have come to say may do your husband more good than

harm,' Suzanne assure she.  'General,' she add, turn towards he,

'do you mind describe to I once more the man who come to your

headquarters masquerade as a french officer, an envoy from the French

Brigadier-General?'



the General's face darken.



'describe he!' he exclaim.  'why, I cann't get he out of my thought

for a minute!  he be tall, soldierly, dark, sallow, black moustache,

narrow eye, black hair cut short, a scar on his right cheek, and he

have a habit swinge his left arm when he walk.'



'I need not ask you whether you would know he again,' Suzanne say,

'because I be sure you would.  I may be very foolish and I may be

make a very silly mistake, but there be a man over here now attach

to the French Military Mission.  he be be entertain to-night at

Ranelagh by official from the War Office.  he leave to-morrow,

ostensibly for french headquarter, and he answer your description

exactly.'



all the nervousness have leave the General's manner.  he be perfectly

calm, a little eager.  he pick up his cap and cane from a table.



'where be he to be find?' he ask.



'if you will come with I,' Suzanne promise, 'I will take you to he.'



the nurse hasten towards they.  the General push she aside.  his

tone have acquire a new firmness.



'please understand, both of you,' he say, 'that no nurse or doctor's

injunction will keep I from do my duty.  my dear,' he add,

turn to his wife and kiss she upon the forehead, 'this be not a

matter in which you must interfere.  if the young lady be mistaken, I

shall come back at once.  if by any chance she be right, it be

imperative that I should go.  I be at your service, madam.'



'I will take care of he,' Suzanne whisper to Lady Matravers.



they let he go, doubtfully but of compulsion.  he take his place in

the car and acknowledge his introduction to Lavendale with a stiff

salute.  they start off at once.  for the first time Suzanne begin to

be a little nervous about the outcome of their journey.



'this man,' she explain, 'be be entertain at dinner at Ranelagh

at the present moment.  we can go down there and you can see from the

open doorway of the dining-room whether there be any truth in my

suspicion.  if we be wrong----'



'you need have no fear, young lady,' the General assure she calmly.

'I be a member of Ranelagh and well-know there.  it will be quite in

order that I stroll round the place and glance in at the dining-room.

if your suspicion be, as you suggest, ill-found, no harm will be

do.  if they be true,' he add, his voice shake for a moment, 'if

really it be vouchsafe to I in this life to find myself face to face

once more with that man----'



he break off abruptly and mutter something under his breath.  not

another word be speak until they have turn in at the avenue and

pull up in front of the clubhouse.  the General have become

preternaturally calm.  he wait, however, for Suzanne to precede he.



'if you will lead the way, young lady,' he suggest.



they cross through the two room, out on to the terrace the other

side, and turn towards the dining-room.  the garden be bright with

flower, and the glow of the sunset seem still to linger about the

place.  one or two visitor who have dine early be already have

their coffee under the tree.  from a hide spot the musician be

tune their instrument.  Suzanne feel her heart beat rapidly as they

draw near the dining-room; the General, apparently unmove, walk with

measure tread, a commanding and dignified figure.  a couple of young

soldier stand up as he pass, and he accept their salute genially.

then he pass into the dining-room.  almost immediately in front of

he, at the table usually reserve for the golfer' luncheon, the

dinner-party be proceed, and on the right-hand side of the host sit

the distinguished Frenchman.  he be face the door and he glance up

at the entrance of the little party.  Suzanne ask no question.  she

feel her breath almost stop, a little sob choke she.  the face of

almost every one in the room, the laughter, the murmur of conversation,

seem suddenly in her mind to have become arrest.  More than

anything else in the world she be conscious of this one thing--the man

who sit there know that his hour have come, know that Fate be march

towards he in the shape of that grim, military figure.



the General walk towards the party very much with the air of one who

have come to make some casual inquiry.  it be only when he be

recognize that a little interested murmur stole around the room.  he

walk to within a few foot of the Frenchman and his right hand seem

to have disappear for a moment.



'gentleman,' he say, without unduly raise his voice but with curious

distinctness, 'the man whom you be entertain here as an emissary

from our french ally, be an impostor, a german and a spy.  he cost

I, a few week ago, the life of two thousand of my man.  a far

small thing, he be responsible for the ruin of my reputation.  this

be less than he deserve.'



with hand as steady as a rock, the General hold his revolver out before

he and deliberately fire three time at the man whom he have accuse,

and who have fall forward now, his outstretche hand sweep the

wineglass from in front of he--stone dead.  the General watch his

victim without emotion.  he even lean forward to make sure that the

wound be mortal.  then he walk deliberately out into the garden,

heedless of the shrieking of the woman, the crowd of diner who have

spring to their foot, the passing of the paralysis which have seem to

keep every one in the room seat and silent.



      *      *      *      *      *



they find the proof upon his body that night--horrify, stupefy

proof--and the censor's hand come down.  no word of that tragedy ever

appear under any sensational headline in any newspaper.  in the face

of that grim silence, even many of those who have be present find

themselves wonder whether that lightning tragedy have not be a

nightmare of the brain.  to Suzanne de Freyne, however, it remain

always one of the tense moment of her life.  the General, with the

revolver still in his hand, turn towards she with a polite gesture

and a happy smile as he lead the way into the garden.  he toss the

weapon into a bed of geranium and seem utterly indifferent to the

turmoil around.



'you be right, young lady,' he say.  'that be the man.'









CHAPTER V



SUSCEPTIBLE MR. KESSNER



there be a vigour in her walk, a determination in her face, which make

lavendale pause for an instant before he cross the street to accost

Suzanne de Freyne.  it be perfectly clear to he that she be bind

upon a serious errand.  she be dress with her usual subdued elegance

but with more, even, than her usual simplicity.  in her black

tailor-make costume, her small hat and neat patent shoe, she look

like the Rue de la Paix at four o'clock in the afternoon during its

halcyon day.  he be force to quicken his pace to intercept she.



'good morning, Miss de Freyne!'



she turn quickly around and hold out her left hand.  her greeting be

cordial enough, but her air of abstraction do not altogether disappear.



'where have you be hide for the last few day?' she ask.



'I come back from Holland last night,' he reply.  'I have be in

Germany again.'



'any news?' she ask quickly.



'nothing very wonderful.  I needn't ask how thing be with you.  I can

tell that you have something on hand.  can I help?'



she laugh.



'you be right in a way, but I don't think you can help,' she tell he.

'this be quite an important morning--it be Celia's sale.'



he be a little staggered.  her manner be convincing.



'you mean that you be go to a millinery sale?'



'don't be silly,' she answer.  'the first morning of Celia's sale be

the most important event of the season.  we have print card of

invitation, and policeman outside the door to keep away intruder.

this ben't any ordinary bargain hunting, you know.  this be our one

chance to provide ourselves with the elegancie of life at a reasonable

cost.'



'for the moment, I gather,' he go on, fall into step with she,

'the affair of the nation be in the background.'



'naturally,' she assent.



'at what hour,' he inquire, 'will this function be over?'



she glance at he suspiciously.



'if I think you be make fun----'



'never enter into my head,' he assure she.



'then you can give I some lunch at one o'clock,' she promise.



'that's exactly what I be hope for.  and, Miss de Freyne?'



'well?'



'would you mind very much if I bring an acquaintance?'



she glance at he in some surprise.



'of course not,' she answer, 'only it must be a grill-room luncheon,

please.  I be dress for a scrimmage.'



'at one o'clock at the Milan Grill,' he tell she, raise his hat.



he stroll slowly away southward, cross Pall Mall, and let himself

in by a side entrance to the American Embassy.  here he spend a few

minute in the outer office and pass on, a little later, into a more

private apartment.  an elderly man with a clean-shaven face, grey hair

brush back from his forehead, and tortoiseshell-rim spectacle,

look up from his roll-top desk and wave his visitor to a seat.



'Hullo, Ambrose!  anything fresh?'



Lavendale draw up a chair and grasp the hand which the other offer

he.



'there be plenty go on, if one could get to understand it, Mr.

Washburn,' he say.  'Berlin have I puzzle.'



'when do you get back?'



'last night.'



'see anything of our friend?'



'he cross with I.'



'get acquainted with he?'



'oh!  I know he before in Washington and in New York,' Lavendale

reply.  'I take care to remind he of it, too.  yes, he be quite

friendly.  all the same, he be secretive.  he don't tell I the one

thing I discover of the great interest in connection with his

trip, and that be that the Kaiser send his private car three hundred

mile and meet he at the Western Headquarters.  they spend the good

part of the day together.  have he be in here?'



Mr. Washburn shake his head.



'he neither report before he leave, nor have he be in since he get

back.  kind of give we the cold shoulder, ben't it?'



'he haven't have much time yet,' Lavendale remark thoughtfully, 'but it

certainly don't look exactly like the behaviour of a loyal American.'



Mr. Washburn turn in his place, remove his spectacle from his eye

and rub they carefully with his handkerchief.  a slight weariness

be apparent in his face and tone.



'that's our great trouble, Ambrose,' he say.  'Germany's a mighty

country.  she hold her son in a close grip than any other nation in

the world.  a german-American be a german first and an american

afterwards, and don't you forget it.  that's what make we such a

polyglot, indiscriminate race.  be you go to make a report?'



'not at present,' Lavendale reply.  'I haven't yet piece together

the scrap I be able to pick up.  let it be for a day or two.  what I

be anxious to find out be whether Kessner report here or not, and what

account he give, if any, of his journey to Germany.'



'I'll send you word directly he show up, if he come at all,' Mr.

Washburn promise.  'I hear there be half-a-dozen more of his gang in

London.'



Lavendale nod.



'they've some sort of a show on.  Kessner as good as admit it to I.'



'where do you stand with he?' Mr. Washburn ask curiously.



'I'm all right up to the present,' Lavendale assert.  'he believe I

go over on a mission about the british prisoner, 'and he's inclined

to fancy I may be useful to he.  anyway, he be lunch with I

to-day.'



Mr. Washburn smile.



'if you think you'll get much out of he, young fellow,' he say, 'I

fancy you're look for disappointment.  the brain that make twenty

million in Wall Street and control an organization so secret that we

cann't even put a finger upon it----'



'yes, I know,' Lavendale interrupt, rise, 'but, you know, there's

always chance to be reckon with, and I've one card up my sleeve,

anyway.  I know all about he and he don't suspect I yet.' ...



'exactly why be I ask to this festive lunch?' Suzanne de Freyne

inquire, as she lean back upon a settee in the small lounge which

lead into the Milan grill-room, at a few minute before one o'clock that

morning.



'because I be up against a cul-de-sac,' Lavendale confess, 'and I

want your woman's wit to show I the way out.'



'you seem to be take it for grant that we be ally,' she remark.



'we be to a certain extent,' he plead.  'you must admit that a

Germanized United States would be bad for you, and that be what we have

to fight against.'



a waiter set down two cocktail upon a small table in front of they.

she sip hers deliberately.



'tell I, what be the trouble with this man Kessner?' she ask.  'of

what be it that you really suspect he?'



'I wish I know,' Lavendale groan.  'these be the bald fact.

Washington and New York, during the last six month, have be the

scene of the most desperate effort of german diplomacy and political

manoeuvring, with one sole aim--that of prevent the export of

munition of war to England or France.  Money have be spend like water

but the progress have be too slow.  Germany have gain adherent to

her point of view, but not enough.  America be in a position to be of

immense use to the Allies and none whatever to Germany or Austria, and

up to the present she show no sign of cease to supply England and

France and Russia with all the munition she can turn out.  the German

Party in America have take stock of these thing.  they have measure

their weakness and taste defeat.  everything up to this point have be

above-board.  we understand perfectly well what they be fight for,

and to a certain extent admit their grievance.'



'they have no grievance,' Miss de Freyne interpose.



'perhaps not a logical one,' Lavendale admit, 'but you see it be

perfectly true that while they be supply munition on an immense

scale to the Allies, they be supply none at all to Germany and

Austria.  that be, of course, owe to England's control of the sea,

but it be gall to Germany and Austria to know that a neutral country

be provide her enemy with the mean of wage warfare against she.

from their point of view it be not ideal neutrality, be it?'



'America be perfectly ready to supply Germany and Austria as well,' she

remind he.  'besides, Germany and Austria both supply England

during the Boer War.'



'that, of course, be what make America's position logical,' he go

on, 'but listen.  Kessner and his friend have obviously come to an end

of their intriguing in the direction of stop supply.  they have

drop their newspaper campaign.  they have shrug their shoulder

and apparently accept the inevitable.  no one who know they would

believe they capable of anything of the sort.  Kessner have be over

here for a month.  he be in Germany when I be.  he spend a week with

the Chancellor and a long time with the Kaiser himself.  Heyl and both

the Hindemanns be over here, too.  they have also be in Germany.

you see, they be all entitle to call themselves Americans, although

they be Germans at heart.'



'you think that there be some fresh scheme on?' she ask.



'I be perfectly certain there be,' he say firmly.  'not only that, but

I have an idea as to its bearing....  this be our friend.  if you don't

know he by sight, prepare for a shock.'



a small man, dress in plain black clothe, with broad-toed shoe and

a tie almost clerical in its simplicity, have enter the place and be

hand his bowler hat to an attendant.  his complexion be sallow, his

general air one of complete insignificance.  Suzanne watch the

greeting between the two with intense interest.  it be hard to realize

that this be Ludwig Kessner, twenty time a millionaire.



the little man's speech and manner wholly belie his appearance.  his

assurance be unlimited.  he talk easily and with confidence.



'well, young fellow,' he exclaim, 'so we be back in London, eh?  not

late, be I?'



'not a moment,' Lavendale assure he.  'I want to present you, if I

may, to Miss de Freyne, who be lunch with we.  Miss de Freyne,' he

add, 'this be Mr. Kessner.'



she rise with a charming little smile and shake hand with he.  Mr.

Kessner seem to see no reason why he should conceal his admiration.

he walk close to her side as they enter the luncheon-room.



'our young friend and I,' he remark, 'be hang over the side of a

steamer, look out for submarine, this time yesterday.  not

particularly good for the appetite, that sort of thing.'



'I think it be very brave of you to have really cross the North Sea,'

Suzanne declare.  'I should have be terrify to death.'



'business be business,' Mr. Kessner observe, 'and I be something of a

fatalist myself.  I go about what I have to do and take my chance.

same with Mr. Lavendale, I expect, only these diplomatist be use to

it.  troublous time, Miss de Freyne, time such as I never dream we

should see in our day.  by the by, be you french or English?'



'french, English, and Austrian,' she tell he, smile, as they take

their place at the table, 'so you see I represent neutrality in my own

person.  my grandmother be austrian, and I have never be so happy as

when I live in Vienna.'



he nod approvingly.



'do you know,' he say, 'I be glad you be not altogether English.  I

don't know which way your sympathy may be in this trouble, and I

don't know as it matter.  we each of we have a right to our feeling,

whatever they may be.  I be an american first and foremost, like our

friend here, only he have british blood in his vein behind it, and I

have German.  we can keep good friend for all that, though.'



'I think,' she sigh, 'that I be in a most try position.  I adore

Austria and I have many relation there.  I be very fond of France and

I have some good friend in England.  I be tear every way.  after all,

though,' she go on reflectively, 'it cannot be as hard for I as for

you.  you really be german, be you not, and yet you have to sit still

and see America do an enormous lot to help the Allies.'



he glance at she keenly.  her sincerity be undoubted.  before he

reply he look also at the occupant of the next two table, young

people from the land of musical comedy with their khaki-clothe escort,

intellectually negligible.  nevertheless, he lower his voice a little

as he answer.



'you be quite right, Miss de Freyne.  it be one of the hard nut we

have to crack, we German-Americans.  we be honest and above-board

about it, you see.  we have work like slave to direct the policy of

America our own way, and we've fail.'



'be there nothing more you can do?' she ask earnestly.



there be a moment's silence.  Mr. Kessner, with his napkin tuck in

underneath his chin, be settle down to his luncheon like a man.

nevertheless, he again glance searchingly at his neighbour.



'it be hard to see what can be do,' he say calmly.  'I have be in

Germany to visit some of my relative.  it be very wonderful to hear

they all talk there.  there be no pessimism, no doubt whatever, no

shadow of misgiving.  Germany must win--that be in their heart.  they

have not a single doubt.  and here in London, whether the people

deceive themselves or not, they say the same thing.  they go about

their business with even more assurance, and they indulge in pleasure

far more freely.'



'which be go to win?' she ask.



'neither,' he reply.  'neither have the preponderance of strength to

smash the other.  it will be a draw fight.  there will be a period of

peace, nominal peace.  Germany know now what she have to face--a world

in arm against she.  when the next time come, she will be ready.'



'there will be a next time, then?'



'Germany be not yet at the end of her resource,' he assure she.

'there be other way in which she can make herself feel.  but let we

leave for a little time these serious subject.  this champagne, I

know, my friend Lavendale, be a compliment to I.  you

English-Americans do not drink champagne in the middle of the day.

believe I, you be wrong.  I drink your very good health, Miss de

Freyne, and your, Lavendale.  and I drink also,' he add, his eye

lighten a little as he look across the room, 'the unspoken toast!'



he set his glass down empty.



'there be an unspoken toast close to the heart of all of we, Miss de

Freyne,' he remark, 'one little secret we keep at the back of our

thought.  now tell I.  I sail on Saturday.  on Friday night you and

our friend Lavendale will give I the honour of your company at dinner,

eh?  it be arrange.  at the Ritz at eight o'clock.'



'you be very kind,' they both murmur



he select a cigar from a box which have be pass he, and rise a

little abruptly.



'I go to speak with a friend,' he said--'a matter of business.  for

your excellent luncheon I thank you very much, and for the privilege of

having meet Miss de Freyne,' he add with a little bow, 'I thank you

even more.  till Friday, then.'



he shuffle across the room, an ill-dress, undignified figure, yet

with a confidence which surpass conceit.  they see he greet a

compatriot and seat himself at the latter's table.



'that man,' Lavendale say, as he toy with his coffee spoon, 'have at

the back of his head some new scheme.  it may not be direct against

your people.  I have an idea that it be more likely to be direct

against mine.'



'but he be an American himself,' she protest.



'he be a german-american,' Lavendale reply, 'which mean that he be

very much a german and very little an American.'



'whatever his new scheme may be,' she sigh, 'I do not think that he

be disposed to talk about it.'



'whatever it may be,' Lavendale reply, 'it be my business to find it

out.  one thing be absolutely certain.  no American would receive the

attention of the Kaiser--in war time, too--and come back here without

a word to say about it, unless there be something in the background,

something he mean to keep secret.'



they stroll out into the entrance hall and Lavendale depart in

search of his hat.  a waiter come hurriedly out to Suzanne's side.



'for madame,' he whisper, slip a little note into her hand.



her finger close upon it quickly.  she glance around.  Lavendale be

still talk to some acquaintance.  she open it and read the few

hastily pencil lines:--





    '_it would give I a great deal of pleasure to see you again before

    Friday.  I be in flat 74 in the Court here.  shall be alone all

    this afternoon._'





she crumple up the note in her hand.  Lavendale be come towards she.



'can I take you anywhere?' he ask.  'the car will be outside.'



she shake her head.



'don't bother about I,' she say.  'I be go up to my room to write

some letter.'



      *      *      *      *      *



'come in!'



Suzanne turn the handle of number seventy-four, close the door

behind she and enter the sitting-room.  Mr. Kessner turn around in

his chair from before a mass of paper.  he look at Suzanne for an

instant in surprise, an expression which, as he recognize she, change

quickly into one of satisfaction.  he rise to his foot and come towards

she.



'this be a great pleasure, my dear young lady,' he say.  'I scarcely

dare to hope----'



he take her hand, but she evade he with a little smile.



'you see, we be neighbour almost,' she explain.  'I have an

apartment here when I be in London.  I think I would call in and see

you on the way to my room.  but, please--do you mind?'



she push he gently away from she.  for a moment his face darken.

then, with a shrug of the shoulder, he throw himself into the

easy-chair opposite, a shapeless, ill-dress little morsel of

humanity, with a queer intelligence shine out of his narrow eye,

suggest, too, in the square forehead and pucker brow.



'listen, young lady,' he say.  'do you know why I ask you to come

and see I?'



she raise her eyebrow and laugh at he.



'because you like I, I hope,' she reply.  'for myself, I love make

fresh acquaintance amongst clever man.'



'acquaintance?' he repeat slowly.



she nod several time.



'I be not one of those,' she say, 'who can gather the whole world in

without a pause.  I like to make acquaintance.  sometimes an

acquaintance may become a friend.  sometimes--but that take time.'



she feel the steely light of his eye upon she and look modestly down

upon the carpet.



'well,' he go on, 'there be two reason why I send for you.  one I

think you have surmise, and you keep it there at the back of your

pretty little head.  the other--well, you be a young person of

intelligence and mixed nationality.  I think it possible that you

might be of use to I.'



'but in what manner?' she demand.



'I be frank with you at luncheon-time,' he say.  'you know where my

sympathy lie.  your, I gather, be divide.  would it be possible,

I wonder, to induce you to look my way?'



'but you yourself admit,' she remind he, 'that the cause of

Germany in America be lose.  what more be there to be do?'



'Young lady,' he reply, 'the cause of Germany in America may be lose

for the moment so far as regard our effort to induce the present

administration to carry into effect an ethical neutrality.  but the

great source of Germany's greatness be her capacity for look ahead.

if one cause be lose, then in that day a new one be bear.  if Germany

have not foresee and prepare for this war for forty year, she would

have be crush to-day.  now we who be her son in foreign

country, our eye, too, be fix upon the future.'



'then you have a new scheme,' she say quietly.



'we have a new scheme,' he admit, 'but what that may be it be not my

intention to tell you at present.'



she pout at once.



'of course, if you be not go to trust me----'



'you must not be a foolish child,' he interrupt.  'you would think

little of I if I do, and besides,' he add, rise to his foot, 'I

be not sure yet that I do trust you.  wait.'



he touch the bell.  almost immediately the door of the sit-room

be open.  she give a little start.  an immense coloured man in dark

clothe stand respectfully in the doorway.



'George,' his master direct, 'if any one ring, I be engaged.  see

that I be not disturb on any pretext.'



'very good, Mr. Kessner!



the man close the door with wonderful softness.  even his footstep,

as he retreat into the bedroom, be inaudible.  Kessner's elbow be

prop against the mantelpiece, his head support in his thin,

yellow-stain finger.  he look down at she.



'if you do not trust I,' she persist, 'how can I be of help to you?'



'I might put you to the test,' he say slowly.



there be nothing distinctly threaten in his tone, and yet all at

once she be afraid.  the thought of that black Hercules loitering

outside, something in the downward droop of the eye of this man all

the time edge a little near to she, seem suddenly to become

terrifying.  nevertheless, she refuse to flinch.



'I do not like riddle,' she declare.  'perhaps you have well think

over more definitely what you want to say to I, before Friday night,

or send a note up to my room.'



'there be no necessity,' he reply.  'what I have to say to you be

already quite clear in my mind.'



he move still near, stand over the couch by her side.  then the

outside bell rang.  he pause to listen.  her heart give a little jump

as a familiar voice ask for Mr. Kessner.



'it be Mr. Lavendale!' she exclaim under her breath.  'don't let he

find I here!'



his feature relax.  he laugh and pat her hand.  she could have

say nothing to inspire he with more confidence.



'of course not,' he reply indulgently.  'don't be afraid.  George

would tell he that I be engage.  he have my order to let no one in.'



'but I hear he say that he would wait!' she persist anxiously.

'cannot I hide somewhere for a moment while you see he and send he

away?'



George make a discreet appearance.



'a gentleman inquire for you, sir,' he say.  'he be wait outside

in the corridor.  I tell he that you would be a long time.'



Mr. Kessner consider for a moment.



'would you mind step into my sleep apartment?' he ask Suzanne.



she spring up at once.



'you will get rid of he quickly?' she beg.



he press her hand affectionately.  she endure his touch without

flinching.  he hand she over to George and point to the door of his

room.



'give the young lady a chair inside,' he order.  'I will see Mr.

Lavendale.'



she be usher into a bedroom and a moment or two later she hear

Lavendale announce.  then George return, hand she some american

paper and disappear into the bathroom beyond.  she rise to her foot

as he close the door.  the sound of Lavendale's voice be muffle and

inaudible.  she glance around the room.  it be tastefully but very

plainly furnish.  there be nothing about on the mantelpiece or

bureau likely to be of the slight interest.  suddenly her heart give

a little jump.  George come out of the bathroom with a coat upon his

arm, throw open the bureau and search there for something.  as he

stand there, a thin, black silk pocket-book slip from the

breast-pocket of the coat and fall unnoticed on to the carpet.  a

moment later he close the bureau, lay the coat carefully out upon the

bed and withdraw into the bathroom, close the door.  Suzanne hold she

breath for a single moment.  then she steal across the floor, seize

the pocket-book, open the bedroom door stealthily, and with a little

gulp of relief pass out into the corridor.  she run up the stair to

her own room, grip the pocket-book in her hand.  arrive there, she

lock the door, take up the telephone and speak to the hall-porter.



'please don't let Mr. Lavendale go out,' she direct.  'when he come

downstairs send he up to my room--say that I wish to see he at once.'



she slip the pocket-book into the bosom of her dress and wait.  in

a few minute there be a ring at the bell.  Lavendale stand outside.



'come in at once,' she beg.



he hesitate, but she drag he in.



'do not be foolish!' she exclaim.  'shut the door.  you have just

leave Mr. Kessner?'



'yes,' he admit.



'why do you go there?'



'to see if you be get yourself into any trouble,' he answer

grimly.



'you know?'



he nod.



'yes, I know!'



she draw the pocket-book from the bosom of her gown.



'listen,' she say, 'I be terrified.  I pick this up from the

bedroom.  it slip out of the pocket of his dinner-coat.  I haven't

even dare to look inside.'



he move to the door and lock it, come back and shake the content

out on to the table.  there be a great roll of note, some visit

card, some note copy from a german time-table, a long list of

name, and a single letter on thick, cream paper.  Suzanne steal to the

door on tiptoe and stand there, listen.  there be no sound in the

corridor, no sound in the apartment at all except a smother

exclamation or two from Lavendale.  presently he call to she.  he be

hold the paper in his hand.



'Miss de Freyne,' he whisper, 'listen.'



she catch he by the sleeve.  there be a ponderous knocking at the

door, the shrill summon of the bell ring through the room.  Lavendale

hesitate for a moment.  then he slip the book into his inside

pocket and throw open the door.  Mr. Kessner's black servant be

stand outside.



'the master have send his compliment,' he say, 'and would be glad to

know----'



he glance at Suzanne.  it be obvious that Lavendale's presence in the

room embarrass he.  then he be suddenly push on one side and back

into the corridor.  Mr. Kessner himself come quietly in and close the

door behind he.  there be a queer little gleam in his eye, but his

manner be unruffled.  he try the handle of the door to be sure that

it be closed.  then he turn towards Suzanne.



'will a million dollar,' he ask, 'buy I back my pocket-book?'



Lavendale draw it from his pocket and promptly hand it across.



'my dear Mr. Kessner,' he remonstrate, 'you be surely not serious!

Miss de Freyne be just explain her little escapade to I and I be

come in search of you.'



Mr. Kessner take no notice of either of they for several moment.  he

run through the content of the pocket-book, then he slowly thrust it

into his pocket.



'I shall have the pleasure,' he say, 'on Friday night?  you will not

forget--the Ritz at eight o'clock?'



'charm,' Lavendale murmur.



'delight,' Suzanne falter.



he make a little bow--an ugly, awkward bow--and leave the room.  there

be nothing in his manner to indicate what his sensation be.

Lavendale and Suzanne look at one another.



'be there anything very important there?' she ask.



he laugh.



'nothing from your point of view, but everything from mine,' he tell

she.  'there be a list of forty-two name of German-Americans, each

give a million dollar towards a specific purpose.  there be a plan

of a few remain estate in a certain part of Brazil, still to be

purchase to establish what at some seasonable juncture should be

declare to be a german colony.  some slight trouble with the

Government of Brazil, a german gunboat, and behold!--German South

America and to Hell with the Monroe Doctrine!  a very admirable scheme,

only----'



'only what?'



'I don't fancy that, thank to you, those estate will ever come into

the market,' he remark dryly, 'not for a german purchaser, at any

rate.'



she glance uneasily towards the door.



'Mr. Lavendale,' she say earnestly 'I be terrify!'



'why?'



'I be afraid of Mr. Kessner,' she confess.  'he take it much too

quietly.'



Lavendale shrug his shoulder.



'a man of his temperament,' he say, 'seldom waste his time or his

emotion.  he be play for a great stake which he know now that he

will lose.  at the same time, he have lose purely through accident.'



she suddenly smile.



'I wonder,' she exclaim, 'whether he really expect we to dine with

he at the Ritz on Friday night!'



'we'll go and see, at any rate,' Lavendale declare.









CHAPTER VI



the MACHINATIONS of MR. COURLANDER



Lavendale glance at his thin gold watch and replace it in his

waistcoat pocket.



'three minute past eight,' he remark.  'half a dozen pair of glove

for I, I think.  shall I go in and see about a table or would you

rather dine somewhere else?'



Suzanne make a little grimace.  they be in the foyer of the Ritz

Hotel, and she be wear a wonderful new gown.



'it be most disappointing,' she declare.  'I have make up my mind to

conquest.'



'I be very impressionable,' Lavendale assure she.



she shake her head petulantly.



'it be not you whom I wish to subjugate.'



'I be too easy a victim, I suppose,' Lavendale sigh.  'I be afraid

that to-night, however, you will have to be content with I.'



her face suddenly change, a brilliant smile part her lip, she

glance at he triumphantly.  Lavendale look over his shoulder.  Mr.

Kessner be cross the lounge towards they with outstretched hand.



'you've lose your glove,' Suzanne murmur under her breath.



Mr. Kessner greet his two guest in the most matter-of-fact fashion.



'I must apologize for be a few moment late,' he say.  'it be

rather crowded here to-night, and I think it well to go and see that

no mistake have be make about my table.  I should like, if I may, to

introduce to you Mr. Courlander, a friend of mine from New York.  Mr.

Courlander be dine with we.'



the two young people murmur something suitable.  Mr. Courlander

turn out to be a dark, heavy-browed man, clean-shaven, and of a

taciturn disposition.  the little party make their way in to dinner.

they be usher to a small round table in the good quarter of the

room, a table lavishly arrange with flower and flank with a couple

of ice-pail, from which gold-foil bottle be protrude.  Suzanne

give a little sigh of content as she sink into her chair, and look

around her appreciatively.



'I have always observe,' she say softly, 'that the man of your

country, Mr. Kessner, know so well how to entertain.'



'and also,' Mr. Kessner remark, blink slightly, 'how to select

their guest.'



the service of dinner proceed.  Mr. Kessner, in his dress-suit, which

seem several size too large for he, appear somehow to have become

a more insignificant person than ever.  in this ultra-fashionable

restaurant, full of well-set-up man and soldier in uniform, he seem

almost like some by-product, something not altogether human.  his very

insignificance compel a certain amount of notice; confer upon

he, perhaps, an air of distinctiveness if not of distinction.  he be

Kessner, the multi-millionaire, probably over to secure contract from

the Government.  the aroma of wealth hover around his table.  the

term 'german-American' be unused--to few people there do it convey

any significance.  the little party talk of every subject under the

sun except the war.  Mr. Courlander, notwithstanding his heavy

appearance, be an excellent raconteur.  Dinner be more than half-way

through before their host change his attitude.



'you two young people do not, by any chance, expect I to break my

appointment for this evening, do you?' he ask.



'we have a bet about it,' Suzanne admit.



'tell I who wager in my favour and I will tell you which be the

cleverer of the two?' he offer.



Suzanne laugh.



'it be I who think that you would come,' she declare.



he bow.



'after all,' he argue, 'why not?  listen,' he go on, lean across

the table.  'Courlander here do not count.  he be in my confidence.

he be, indeed, at one time my private secretary.  to the world I be an

American.  to our young friend here,' he go on, indicate Lavendale,

'who appear to have partly discard his diplomatic career for an

excursion into the secret service of his country, I be a

German-American.  he follow I to Germany.  he know that I have a

conference with the Kaiser.  he be all agog with the importance of it.

he come back.  he consult with you, my dear young lady, and with

marvellous subtlety he ask I to lunch and expose I most unfairly to

the trial of your charm.  I succumb--what more natural?'



he lean back in his chair while a portly _maître d'hôtel_

superintend the filling of their glass with champagne and explain

to he the mystery of the course which be be serve.  neither

Suzanne nor Lavendale find it easy to continue their meal unmove.

their eye be fix upon this insignificant little man who speak with

such deliberation, such a queer little curl of the lip, such obvious

enjoyment of his own thought.



'your deep-lay scheme,' he go on, 'be crown with complete

success.  the poor little American be rob of his secret.  by this

time it be probably know in Washington.  there be only one little fly

in the ointment.  a private intimation have already be give through

our ambassador in Washington to the American Government, that unless

America at once abandon her position of favour the Allies at the

expense of Germany and Austria, Germany will refuse now and for always

henceforth to respect and accept the Monroe Doctrine.'



there be a moment's breathless silence.  then Lavendale drain his

glass.



'you mean that that pronouncement have already be make?' he murmur.



'it have already be make,' Mr. Kessner assent.  'far, you can

understand quite easily, I be sure, that the exact locality in which

this break should take place, although interesting, be not of vital

importance.  I do not wish to dispirit you.  your be, without doubt,

an excellent stroke of work, and I, the poor victim, be compel to

droop a diminished head.  yet I offer you this explanation so that you

can see the reason why I be able to accept my defeat gracefully, to

welcome you both here as my guest, to raise my glass to your beautiful

eye, mademoiselle, and to wish you, Mr. Lavendale, the further success

in your profession which such subtlety and finesse demand.'



'Say, he's eloquent to-night, ben't he?' Mr. Courlander remark.

'quite an epic little meeting, this.  I can assure you all that I

consider it an immense privilege to have be ask to join your little

party this evening.'



'my subtle friend,' Mr. Kessner continue, set his glass down

empty, 'be now wonder why you be ask to join it.'



'not at all,' Lavendale reply.  'the fame of Mr. Courlander be well

know to I.'



their host for a single moment seem disturbed.  he recover himself,

however, almost immediately.



'Mr. Courlander,' he go on, 'as I have tell you be once my

secretary.  since then, for a brief space of time, he become a

criminologist.  disgust with the coarse tendency of crime as

practise in more modern city he abandon that profession to become

what I might call a diplomatic detective.  he be the terror of our

loose-live public man and our ambitious but dishonest politician.'



'our friend's career in America,' Lavendale remark dryly, 'must of

necessity be a strenuous one!'



Mr. Kessner for a moment smile.  there be no effort of humour about

the gesture.  it be simply a slow, sideways parting of the lip, an

index of thought travel backwards along a road line with

grotesque memory.  he draw a heavy gold pencil from his pocket and

sign the bill.  then he rise to his foot.



'we will take our coffee outside,' he suggest.  'afterwards, if it

meet with your approval, I have a box at one of the music hall--I be

not sure which.'



they linger only a few minute over their coffee.  while they sit

there, however, Mr. Kessner's secretary, a middle-aged man with gold

spectacle and abstract manner, bring in a note.  Mr. Kessner

open it, read it carefully and tear it into small piece.  he rise, a

few minute later, join his secretary, who be wait on the

outskirt of the little group, and walk with he twice down the

entrance hall.  then he return.



'the car be wait,' he announce, 'if you be ready.  willn't you, my

machiavellian young friend,' he add, glance at the scrap of paper

which he have leave upon the coffee table, 'try and put those fragment

together?  I promise that you would find they interesting--more

intrigue, and a very interesting one, I can assure you.'



Lavendale find it hard to forgive himself later for the impulse which

prompt his answer.  the temptation, however, be irresistible.



'I have no need to put they together to know the source of your

message,' he reply.



'no?' Mr. Kessner remark politely, as he linger for a moment over

adjust Suzanne's coat.  'there be a good many million of people in

London, be there not?  shall I give you a hundred thousand to one

against name the writer?'



'in dollar, if you like,' Lavendale reply carelessly.  'I willn't take

your money, but I'll start, then, with Baron Niko Komashi.'



Mr. Kessner, who have half turn away, watch the result of his

attention to Suzanne, become suddenly motionless.  his lip be a

little part, he seem almost paralysed.  when he turn slowly

around there be a new look in his eye.  Courlander, on the other

hand, do not attempt to restrain an exclamation of wonder.



'Baron Niko Komashi,' Kessner repeat.  'who be he?'



Lavendale laugh easily.  he be already bitterly regret his

momentary lapse.



'Heaven know!' he exclaim.  'the odd dazzle I.'



they walk out to the car almost in silence.  a new spirit seem to

have come to Kessner.  he look and talk differently throughout the

rest of the evening's entertainment.  he seem somehow to have lose

his air of half banter confidence.  when the time come for

farewell, he look long and earnestly into Lavendale's face.



'we must know one another well, young man,' be all he say....



on their way back to her room, Suzanne grip Lavendale by the arm

and ask he a question.



'what do it all mean?' she demand.  'why do you guess Niko?  why

be they both so thunderstruck?'



'because,' he reply, 'Niko happen to be the writer of that little

epistle.'



her large eye gleam at he through the semi-darkness, fill with

wonder.



'but how could you possibly know that?'



he smile.



'it be your responsibility,' he explain.  'I notice the perfume

directly he draw the note from the envelope.'



she laugh softly--softly at first and then heartily.



'why, it be most amusing!' she exclaim.  'he think you a

necromancer.  he be, I believe, a little afraid of you.  and that other

man, all through the performance he scarcely take his eye off you.'



'at any rate,' Lavendale observe, 'it have give I something to think

about.'







II



Lavendale find his way to the American Embassy early on the following

morning, and interview his friend Mr. Washburn.



'anything from Washington?' he inquire.



'I have only have a formal acknowledgment,' Mr. Washburn reply,

'except that they add a code word they don't often make use of, and

which I take to indicate a pat on the back for you.'



'be it true,' Lavendale continue, drag a chair up to the side of

Mr. Washburn's desk, 'that Berlin have give Washington to understand

that unless she change her attitude toward the Allies and withdraw

her objection to submarine warfare, she will no long respect the

Monroe Doctrine?'



'_pourparler_ to that effect,' Mr. Washburn confess, 'have pass.

how do you come to hear of they?'



Lavendale smile a little grimly, yet with some self-satisfaction.



'I be get on the track of something else which promise to be even

more interesting,' he go on.  'tell I, how do we stand with Japan

just now?'



Mr. Washburn knit his brow.



'still friction--always friction,' he admit.  'the whole thing be

too ridiculous.  personally, I consider our western States be very

much to blame.  we have never before raise the cry 'America for the

Americans only,' and it's too late to do it now.  and the fact of it be

you see, the Western States simply decline to fall in with Washington

Policy.  then the trouble come.  any particular reason for ask?'



'I don't know yet,' Lavendale reply.  'there's a japanese fellow

name Komashi in my line of business, seem to be very busy just

lately.  I only catch on to it last night, though.  Chief well?'



'we be all overwork,' Washburn reply.  'we have have to send

Barclay over to Berlin to get a personal report about the prisoner'

camp there.  then we get enough question from Germany ourselves,

about their prisoner here, to swamp the place.'



Lavendale take up his hat.



'I'll see you later,' he promise.



he walk down the step from Spring Gardens into St. James's Park and

sit for a time upon a seat.  exactly in front of he, the upper floor

of one of the big house in Carlton Terrace have be turn into a

hospital, and he could see the soldier lie about in long chair, a

few of they entertain guest.  behind he be the long row of hut

build by the Admiralty.  a troop of soldier swing along the broad

road, a loudly play band herald the approach of a little company

of recruit.  save for these thing, London seem as usual.  from

where he sit, the hum and the roar of the great city come as

insistently as ever to his ear.  his thought have travel back to

New York.  how long, he wonder? ...



it be one of the chance of a lifetime which bring Lavendale face to

face that afternoon with Baron Niko Komashi in a quiet street near St.

James's Square.  Niko would have pass on without even a sign of

recognition but Lavendale stop he.



'good afternoon!' he say.



'good afternoon!' the other reply gravely.



'I should like a few minute' conversation with you,' Lavendale

proceed.



Niko be perplexed but acquiescent.



'if it please,' he answer a little vaguely.



Lavendale march he along the street.



'there be a little bridge club to which I belong, close at hand,' he

say.  'come into the sitting-room there for a few moment.  we shall

be quite alone at this hour of the afternoon.'



Niko suffer himself to be passively lead in the direction which his

companion indicate.  in a few moment they be seat in the

comfortable parlour of a well-know bridge club.  they be quite alone

and Lavendale close the door.



'well,' he ask, 'how go it with your new ally?'



Niko's face betray nothing but mild wonder.  Lavendale smile.



'listen,' he say, 'I may be make a mistake about you.  I do not

think that I be.  I think that you represent for your country what I do

for mine.  you be intensely patriotic.  so be I.  you realize the need

for a certain amount of diplomatic insight into the working of her

constitution and her future.  so do I.  the only trouble be that you

be for Japan and I be for America.'



Niko assent very gravely.  his soft brown eye be watch

Lavendale's lip as though they would read upon they even the unuttered

word.  his finger-tip, soft and pliant as velvet, be press

together.



'you be not to be buy, my friend,' Lavendale go on.  'neither be

I.  when we walk together, you hedge yourself around with restraint

because you believe that I be one of those who could bear your country

ill-will.  that be where you be wrong.  that be where there be a cloud

between we which ought to be drive away.  Japan and America naturally,

industrially and geographically, should be friend, not enemy.'



'the cause of ill-feeling which lie between we,' Niko observe

suavely, 'be not of our making.'



'nor of our--not of the true American,' Lavendale answer promptly.

'it be the desire of Washington, official Washington, that the son of

your country who come to we should be treat as our own son.  what we

have to contend with, and you, be local feeling.  the only sentiment

that exist against Japan in my country be that local feeling, and the

people who have show themselves most virulently possess of it be

the compatriot of the man who only within the last few week have

seek to pave the way for a disgraceful compact with your country.'



Niko's face be a little whiter, his eye be fill with wonder.

slowly he nod his head.



'you surprise I with your knowledge of thing which I have imagine

secret,' he say.  'secret they have remain so far as I be concern.

such information as you have gain can have come but from one source,

so I will speak thus far.  the sword of Japan shall be draw in defence

of her honour, and for no other cause.  the alliance which you suggest

would be hateful and dishonour to my country.  nor,' he conclude,

'would Japan at any time commence a war with a treasonable ally.'



'what answer have you make to kessner?' Lavendale ask bluntly.



his companion gently raise his eyebrow.



'who be that gentleman--Mr. Kessner?' he inquire.



Lavendale shrug his shoulder.



'ah!  I forget,' he say.  'those would not be your method.  yet we

know quite well that the person whose name I have mention have make

overture to you which could not, under present circumstance, emanate

from Berlin.  Japan from the west, and Germany on the east, might well

embarrass a country so criminally unprepared for war as mine.  I take

it, however, that that combination be not to be fear.'



Niko rise from his place.  he have a habit of end a discussion

exactly at the period he choose.



'not in your time or mine,' he answer simply....



Lavendale, notwithstanding a nervous system almost unexampled, be

possess of curiously sensitive instinct.  before he reach Pall

Mall, he be obsess with an idea that he be be follow.  he

turn rather abruptly around.  a tall, broad-shoulder man in dark

clothe, wear a Homburg hat and with a cigar in the corner of his

mouth, wave his stick in friendly greeting.



'this be Mr. Lavendale, ben't it?' he remark.  'kind of forget I,

perhaps?  my name's Courlander.  Met you with Mr. Kessner the other

night.'



'I remember you perfectly,' Lavendale acknowledge.  'very pleasant

dinner we have.'



Mr. Courlander fall into step with his companion, who have turn

eastward.



'there be few thing in the world that Ludwig Kessner don't

understand,' he continue, 'from the placing of a loan to the ordering

of a dinner.  he ben't much use at eat it, poor fellow, but that's

the fault of his digestion.  too much ice-water, I tell he.'



Lavendale nod affably.  he have no objection whatever to discuss

Mr. Kessner.



'kind of misunderstood over here, the boss,' courlander go on.

'People think because he's of german extraction that his sympathy be

altogether that way.  as a matter of fact, I can tell you, Mr.

Lavendale, that people be dead wrong.  at the present moment--I

wouldn't have every one know this, but you're an american, too--Mr.

Kessner be make proposal for a very large purchase of British War

Loan.'



'be he indeed!' Lavendale observe, in a tone as colourless as he could

make it.



courlander glance at he curiously.  they be pass the Carlton and

he draw his arm through Lavendale's.



'just one cocktail,' he suggest.



Lavendale hesitate for a moment, inspire by an instinctive dislike of

his companion.  Policy, however, intervene.  he accept the

invitation and follow Courlander into the smoke-room.  they find two

easy-chair and the latter give the order.



'I be talk about the boss,' he go on.  'there be other besides

you who have misunderstood he some, but they'll learn the truth before

the war's over.'



'when be Mr. Kessner return to America?' Lavendale ask.



'as soon as he can find a safe steamer,' Courlander reply.  'he be a

trifle nervous about the Atlantic.  say, that taste good!'



Mr. Courlander lean back and sip his cocktail.  Lavendale, with a

word of excuse, rise to his foot and stroll across the room to speak

to an acquaintance.  he return in less than a minute.  Mr. Courlander

be lean back in his chair, American from tip to toe.  he wear a

dark grey suit of some smooth material.  his square-toed boot, the

little flag in his buttonhole, his prim tie, his air of genial

confidence, be all eloquently and convincingly typical of his

nationality.  Lavendale be follow by a waiter bear two more

glass upon a tray.



'try my sort,' he invite.



Mr. Courlander glance at Lavendale's glass, which be still

three-quarter full.



'you haven't finish your first one yet,' he remark.



'a little too dry for I,' Lavendale reply, place it upon the tray

and take the full glass.  'here's luck!'



the two man look at one another.  in Courlander's hard brown eye, a

little narrow by his drooping eyebrow, there be an air of fierce

though latent questioning.  then with an abrupt gesture he take the

glass from the tray and drink off its content.



'you'll forgive I if I hurry away,' Lavendale go on.  'we shall meet

again, I dare say, before Mr. Kessner leave.'



'sure!' Mr. Courlander murmur, as he pick up his hat.  'I be

generally to be find round about the Milan.  like to have you come and

dine with I one night.'



the two man part at the hotel entrance.  Lavendale get into a taxi

and drive to his room.  as he change his clothe, he glance through

his correspondence.  there be a note from Suzanne which he read over

twice:--





    '_Dear Friend,--_



    '_I want to see you at once.  I shall be in from seven till eight.

    please call._'





Lavendale glance at the clock, hurry with his toilet, and find

himself ring the bell at the entrance door of Suzanne's suite at

half-past seven.  she admit he herself and usher he into the

little sitting-room, which have be transform almost into a bower of

deep red rose.



'Mr. Kessner,' she exclaim, point around, 'with a carte de visite!

you see what he says?--'"From a forgiving enemy!"'



Lavendale glance at they with a frown upon his forehead.



'I'd like to throw they out of the window,' he declare frankly.



'do not be foolish,' she laugh.  'listen.  you be dine somewhere?'



'at our own shop,' he reply.  'they ask I about once in every two

month, to fill up.'



'I want to speak to you about that man Courlander,' she go on.



'well?'



'Lawrence Dowell--the american newspaper woman, you know--be in here

yesterday and stay to lunch.  we see Mr. Courlander in the distance

and she tell I about he.  do you know that he be convict of

murder?--that it be only through Mr. Kessner's influence that he be

take out of sing-sing?  he be a police-sergeant and his name be

Drayton.  they say that there be several case against he of have

man put out of the way who have make themselves obnoxious to Tammany

Hall.  the sentence against he be quite clear, yet Mr. Kessner not

only manage to have he release but make he his private secretary.'



Lavendale stand for a moment look out of the window with his hand

in his pocket.  then he turn slowly around.



'about an hour ago,' he say, 'this fellow Courlander try to doctor a

cocktail I be drink in the Carlton smoking-room.'



'what?' she exclaim.



'I meet he at the corner of St. James's Street,' he go on.  'I have

be in the club with Niko Komashi, and I be perfectly certain that he

have be dog I.  we walk along Pall Mall and he press I to go

in and have a cocktail.  I happen to cross the room to speak to

Willoughby and on the way glance into the mirror.  I see Courlander's

hand suddenly flash over my glass.  it be so quick that even though I

see it myself, I could scarcely believe it, and I'm certain that no one

else in the room could have notice it.  when I get back, I make some

excuse and order another cocktail.'



she seem suddenly to lose some part of that serenity which as yet he

have never see even ruffle.  she be distinctly pale.



'you must be careful--please promise that you will be careful,' she

beg.



'this ben't New York,' he remind she.



'but that man be a perfect devil,' she persist earnestly.  'he be a

professional murderer.  he have no feeling, no mercy, and he be so

cunning.  and behind he there be Kessner and all his million.'



Lavendale shrug his shoulder.



'all the million that be ever own,' he say, 'wouldn't help a man

over here against the law.  I be not afraid of Courlander.  there be

nothing he could try which I be not prepared for, and if it come to a

hand-to-hand struggle, I don't think I have anything to fear from he.'



'I don't like it,' she tell he frankly.  'you will be on your guard,

willn't you?'



his voice soften.



'of course I will, but, Miss de Freyne--Suzanne--why don't you like it?

why do you worry about I at all?'



she be silent for a moment.  she have turn a little towards the

window, her eye have lose their usual directness.  he take a step

forward.



'it ben't because you care a little about I, by any chance, be it?' he

ask.



she give he her hand.  then she turn around and he see that her eye

be soft with tear.



'Suzanne!' he falter.



she turn towards he.  there be something very sweet about she

little gesture, something yield and yet restrain.



'willn't you please forget all this for just a little time?' she plead.

'to tell you the truth, I feel almost like a traitress when I even let

myself think of such thing now that my country be in such agony, when

everything that be dear to I in life seem imperille.  you have your

work, too, and I have mine.  perhaps the end may be happy.'



he raise her finger to his lip and kiss they.



'I will obey,' he promise, turn towards the door.



'and you will be careful--please be careful,' she beg, as she let

he out and squeeze his arm for a moment.  'there!  now you must go to

your dinner.  you look very nice, and I be sure you will sit next some

one altogether charming, and perhaps you will forget.  but I shall like

to think of this evening.' ...





practical, hard-headed, and with a sound hold upon the every-day

episode of life, Lavendale nevertheless pass through the remainder

of that evening with his head in the cloud.  he be vaguely conscious

of the other twenty-three guest who share with he the hospitality of

the Ambassador--a few diplomat, a professor from Harvard University

and his wife, two other distinguished Americans, with a sprinkling of

their english connection.  he sit next a distant relative of his own,

an american girl who have marry an Englishman, and his abstraction be

perhaps minister to by the fact that conversation from he be

entirely unlooked for.  in the reception room afterwards he find

himself able to speak for a moment with Washburn.



'have you see anything of Mr. Kessner?' he ask.



the other make a little grimace.



'very little,' he reply.  'the Chief and he don't exactly hit it off.

I hear a rumour the other day that he might be go back to Germany.'



Lavendale play a couple of rubber of bridge and be invite to take

a cigar in the library before he leave.  it be shortly after one

o'clock before he step into the taxicab which a servant have summon

for he.



'17 Sackville Street,' Lavendale direct.



he throw himself back in the corner of the vehicle, and they glide

off.  a drizzling rain be fall and the street be almost empty.

he lean forward in his place to light a cigarette.  that fact and his

habit of observation probably save his life.  he realize suddenly

that this be no ordinary taxicab in which he be travel.  it

conform to none of the usual type.  the cushion be more

luxurious, the appointment unusual.  he sit for a moment thinking.

the chauffeur be drive at a fair pace, but he have take a somewhat

circuitous route.  Lavendale try the door, first on one side, then

on the other.  they be both fast, secure with some sort of spring

lock.  suddenly alert, he rise softly to his foot, crouch for a

moment upon the back seat and thrust his head and shoulder through the

window.  it be easy enough to wriggle out, to descend and allow the

vehicle to proceed to its destination, wherever that might be, without

its passenger, but the love of adventure be upon he.  he set his

tooth, sink back once more in his corner, half close his eye.  to all

appearance he might have be a tired diner-out prematurely asleep.  as

a matter of fact, every nerve and sense be keenly on the alert, and

his right finger be lock around the butt of a small revolver.

without protest or comment, he see himself conduct by a roundabout

way into a maze of quiet street.  then, with a little thrill of

anticipation, he see a man who have be loiter near an entry turn

and follow the vehicle, which at his coming have slacken speed.  the

man be wear some sort of rubber-sole shoe and his footstep upon

the street be noiseless.  through his half-close eye, Lavendale be

nevertheless conscious of his approach, realize his soft spring on to

the footboard of the car, be more than prepared for the sudden flick

in his face of a sodden towel, reek with chloroform.  his right fist

shoot out, the figure on the footboard go reel back into the

street.  even then, prepare though he have be, Lavendale for a moment

gasp for breath.  the car, with a sudden grinding of the brake, come

to a standstill.  they be at the top of a darkly-light street and not a

soul be in sight.  Lavendale thrust his foot through the glass in

front of he, shatter it all around the driver.  the man half spring

to his foot, but Lavendale's swift speech arrest he.



'sit where you be,' he order.  'never mind about that other fellow.

drive I to the Milan Hotel.  you know the way, so do I.  if you go a

yard out of it, feel this!'



he suddenly dig the muzzle of his revolver into the man's neck.  the

man, with an oath, crouch forward.



'do as I tell you,' Lavendale thunder, 'or I'll shoot you where you

sit!  remember you're not in New York.  do as I tell you.'



once more the car glide off.  they turn almost immediately into

Piccadilly, across Leicester Square, pass up the Strand and draw up

at the Milan.  Lavendale put his head through the window as the porter

come out from the Court entrance.



'I cann't open this door,' he say.  'ask the fellow in front how to do

it.'



the porter stare with surprise at the shattered glass.  the driver

slip down, touch a spring on the outside and the door fly open.

he have pull his cap deeply over his face.  Lavendale look at he

for a moment steadfastly.



'wait for I,' he order.



he walk into the Court, rang for the lift and ascend to the fourth

floor.  he step out and rang the bell at number seventy-four.  for a

moment there be no answer.  he ring it again.  then a light suddenly

flash up in the room and Mr. Kessner, fully dress, stand upon the

threshold.  he gaze, speechless, at Lavendale, who push forward

across the threshold, hold the door open with one hand.



'Mr. Kessner,' he say, 'your thug with the chloroform be lie on his

back somewhere near Sackville Street.  I shouldn't wonder if his spine

ben't break.  your sham chauffeur be downstairs with his sham

taxicab.  I make he bring I here.  you understand?'



the tip of Mr. Kessner's tongue have moisten his lip.  his line

yellow face seem more than ever like the face of some noxious animal.



'you be drunk, young man,' he say.



Lavendale raise his arm and Mr. Kessner step back.



'don't be afraid,' Lavendale go on scornfully.  'I be not go to

shoot you.  when the day of reckoning come between you and I, if ever

it do, I shall take you by the throat and wring the life out of your

body.  but I be here now to tell you this.  before I sleep, a full

account of this night's adventure, instigate by you and your assassin

Courlander, will be write down and deposit in a safe place.  if

anything happen to I, if I disappear even for a dozen hour, that

paper will be open.  you may get I, even now, you and courlander

between you, only you'll have to pay the price.  see?  in England it's

a damned ugly price!'



Mr. Kessner suck the breath in between his tooth.  then, as though

with some super-human effort, he recover himself.



'say, young fellow, willn't you come in and talk this out?' he invite.



Lavendale laugh dryly.



'"willn't you walk into my parlour?"' he quote mockingly.  'no, thank

you, Mr. Kessner!  you know where we stand now.  let I give you a word

of warning.  London ben't New York.  a very little of this sort of

thing and you'll find the hand of a law that cann't be buy or bribe

or evade in any way, tap upon your shoulder.  you understand?'



Mr. Kessner yawn.



'you be a foolish young man,' he say, 'and you've be read a

little too much modern fiction.'



he slam the door and Lavendale descend to the street.  the

courtyard be empty.



'the car don't wait for I, I suppose?' he inquire of the porter.



'the fellow drive off directly you go upstairs, sir.  I shout after

he but he take no notice.  shall I get you a taxi, sir?'



Lavendale fumble in his pocket, find a cigarette and light it.



'thank you,' he reply, 'I think I'll walk.'









CHAPTER VII



the INDISCREET traveller



Lavendale walk slowly down the sunny side of Pall Mall.  it be early

in August, and for the first time he seem to notice some reflection

in the face of the passer-by of the burden under which the country

be groan.  the usual fashionable little throng about the entrance

to the Carlton, be represent by a few sombrely-dress woman and one

or two wound warrior.  the glance of the passer-by towards the

content bill of the evening paper have in they a certain furtive

eagerness, the fear of evil news triumphing now over the sanguine

optimism of early day.  it be just at that tragical epoch when

Russia, to the amazement of the whole world, be be sweep back from

her frontier city, when there be murmur of an investment of

Petrograd.  Lavendale, in his light grey suit and straw hat, sunburnt,

over six foot tall, broad and athletic, seem somehow a strange figure

as he pass along through street which appear destitute of a single

man under middle-age who be not in khaki.  the recruiting sergeant at

the corner of Trafalgar Square, where Lavendale pause for a moment to

cross the road, catch his eye and smile insinuatingly.



'fine figure for a uniform, sir,' he venture.



'I be an alien,' Lavendale reply, watch a troop of recruit pass

by.



'American, sir?'



'that's so,' Lavendale admit.



the sergeant look he up and down and sigh.



'America's a country, beg your pardon, sir, that don't seem to have

much stomach for fighting,' he remark, as the young man pass on.



Lavendale cross the street with a slight frown upon his forehead.  he

make his way to the War Office and find Captain Merrill in his room

alone.  the two man exchange the greeting of intimate friend.



'say, Reggie,' Lavendale begin, 'you folk be get kind of nervy,

ben't you?  a recruiting sergeant in Trafalgar Square have just gently

intimated to I that I belong to a country which have no stomach for

fight.'



Merrill grin as he toss his cigarette case over.



'well,' he remark, 'you don't seem to be exactly spoil for the

fray, do you?'



Lavendale light a cigarette.



'look here,' he say, 'it's all very well for you fellow to talk.

you've get the war fever in your blood.  you're in it deep yourself

and there's a sort of gloomy satisfaction in see every one else in

the same box.  the chap who go out to provoke a fight be bad, of

course, but the one who spring up and reach for his gun at the first

chance of join in, be play his game, ben't he?'



'perhaps you be right,' Merrill admit.



'I'm not tell you or any one else exactly what my opinion be about

America's policy,' Lavendale continue.  'I'll only remind you that,

even when those truculent forefather of our go out to fight, they

stop to put on their armour.  be there anything fresh?'



'I don't know,' be the somewhat doubtful reply.  'there be a queer

sort of feeling of apprehension everywhere this morning.  the Chief's

be round to see the Prime Minister and on to the Admiralty.  there's

a rumour that he go round to Buckingham Palace, too.  look as though

there be something up.'



'you know all about it, I suppose,' Lavendale remark quietly.



'not a thing!'



the young American knock the ash from his cigarette.



'the history of this war,' he go on, 'will make mighty interesting

reading, but there's another history, a history that will never be

write, the history of the unrecorded thing.  Gee, that would make

people gossip if they could get hold of only a few chapter of it!  you

know there's something strange afoot, Reggie.  so do I, though we sit

here lie to one another.  I doubt whether the man in the street will

ever know.'



Merrill select another cigarette.



'I don't see where you come in here, Ambrose.'



'neither do I,' the other agree.  'still, the truth come to light in

strange way sometimes.  last night I have a cable from a friend in

Petrograd, advise I to buy all russian security.'



'well?'



'if there be to be any change for the well in the valuation of

russian stock,' Lavendale continue slowly, 'that be to say any

immediate change, it can only mean one thing.'



Merrill struggle hard to preserve his expression of polite vacuity.



'there be very few people,' he murmur, 'who really understand

Russia.'



Lavendale shrug his shoulder.



'it ben't exactly my show, you know!'



'it ought to be,' Merrill retort curtly.



'why?'



'just common-sense.  if we don't win in this war, it will be your turn

next.  Japan and Germany you'll have to face--you can take my word for

that--and I hope you'll like it.  if we lose our Fleet, it's good-bye

to american independence.'



'plain and simple word, young fellow!'



'not so plain or so simple as they be true.'



Lavendale throw away his cigarette and stretch out his hand for his

hat.



'well,' he say, 'I use to flatter myself that I be an out-and-out

neutral, but I'm begin to fancy that my sympathy be lean a

little towards your side of the show.  anyhow, I've no reason to keep

secret the little I know about this affair--in fact I come down here to

tell you.  New York be talk openly last night of peace be

proclaim between Germany and Russia within a week.'



'we've try she sorely,' Merrill confess doggedly, 'but I don't

believe it.'



Lavendale rise to his foot.



'I tell you, Merrill,' he say, 'if you'd be about town as much as I

have for the last twenty-four hour, you'd begin to wonder yourself

whether something ben't amiss.  these rumour and feeling of

depression be one of the strange feature of the war, but there it

be at the present moment, in the street and the club and the

restaurant--wherever you turn.  I've notice nothing like it since the

beginning of the war.  the optimist be still cackle away, but it's

there all the same--a grim, dishearten fear.  one man tell I last

night that he know for a fact that Russia be on the point of sue for

peace.'



Merrill shake his head as he resume his place at his desk.



'it's just a phase,' he declare.  'look in and see I again, Ambrose,

when you're feel a little more cheerful.' ...





Lavendale make a call in the Strand and pass along that crowd,

illuminative thoroughfare towards the Milan.  everywhere the face of

the passer-by seem indicative of some new apprehension.  he buy

an early paper, but there be no word in it of any change in the

situation.  on any print presentation of the rumour which be on

every one's tongue, the censor have set his foot.



Lavendale call in at the bar at the Milan for a few minute.  the

same feeling be there even more in evidence.



'what's it all mean?' he ask an american pressman whom he know

slightly.



the newspaper man nod sagely.



'guess the cat's out of the bag now,' he opine.  'Russia have ask for

peace and she be go to have it on generous term.  they say that

negotiation be go on right here, under the Britisher's very nose.

Things'll be pretty lively here soon.'



Lavendale take his place in the luncheon-room, a few minute later.  as

usual he glance expectantly towards the corner which Suzanne de Freyne

frequently occupy.  there be no sign of she to-day, however.  he

give his order and lean back in his place.  then some fancy impel

he to glance towards the glass entrance door on his left.  he spring

at once to his foot.  Suzanne, her face whiter than ever, a queer,

furtive gleam in her dark eye, be look eagerly into the room.  she

see he almost at the same moment and hurry in.



'Suzanne!' he exclaim.  'what luck!  you be go to lunch with I,

of course?'



A _maître d'hôtel_ be hold the vacant chair at his table.  with a

little sigh she relapse into it.  she be plainly dress and have the

appearance of having newly arrive from a journey.



'I suppose I have well have something to eat,' she sigh.  'order

something--anything,' she add, brush the carte away.  'it be you

I come to see.'



he recognize at once the fact that she be in no humour for

triviality.  he give a brief order to the waiter, wave they away

and lean towards she.



'you can command I,' he assure she.  'my time be your.'



she draw a little sigh of relief.  for a moment her little white

finger rest upon his strong brown hand, the tenseness pass from

her manner, it be as though she find something compose in his

strength.



'I have be travel for forty-eight hour,' she say, speak

under her breath, 'and I have an escape, a very narrow escape, in

Belgium.  you do not want to understand everything, do you?'



'nothing more than you choose,' he reply.  'I be your Man Friday.'



'listen, then.  your car--it be in order?'



'perfect.  I come up from Bath the day before yesterday--sixty mile on

the level and never change speed.'



'how long would it take you to get I down to the east coast?' she

ask eagerly.



'what part?'



she hesitate.



'a small place call Blakeney, between Sheringham and Wells.'



he figure it out.



'let I see,' he said,--'two hour to Newmarket, two more to Fakenham,

save a little on both run if we escape a puncture--say four hour

and a half, Suzanne.'



'and your car?'



'in the garage, five minute away in a taxicab.'



she breathe another sigh of relief.



'now I shall eat some luncheon,' she declare.  'you will not mind if

we commit ourselves to rather a wild-goose adventure?'



'I shall enjoy it immensely,' he assure she, 'if one can use such a

word at all these day.'



he order some wine and watch the colour come back to her cheek.

towards the end of the meal, however, she glance often at the clock.

he read her thought, sign his bill and stand up.



'I be go upstairs to my room for a moment,' she say briskly.  'will

you have a taxicab wait?'



'of course!'



she be go barely ten minute.  when she come down she carry a

small travel case and wear a thick veil.  he hurry she into the

taxi, drive to the garage, and in less than half-an-hour London lie

behind they, and the car be gather speed at every moment.  they

pass through Finchley and Potter's bar, slow up through St. Albans,

and settle down at race speed, northward.  Suzanne open her eye.



'I be have a delicious rest,' she murmur.



'where would you like some tea?' he inquire.



'not yet.  push on as far as you can,' she beg.  'what time shall we

reach Fakenham?'



he glance at the clock on the splashboard.



'if you really like to run right through,' he say, 'you shall be there

by six o'clock.'



she pat the hand which grip the steering wheel.



'you dear person!' she exclaim softly.  'now I close my eye again.

I think I will sleep a little.  until I reach my room at twelve

o'clock to-day I have not have my clothe off for two day.  this air and

the rest be wonderful.'



she settle back in her place and he touch the accelerator with his

foot.  through Stevenage and Baldock, across the great open space to

Royston, at sixty mile an hour to Newmarket, up the hill, along the

Norwich road, then round to the left to Brandon, across the mile of

heath with the stunt pine tree and mile of heather, into the more

luxurious pastoral country of eastern Norfolk.  it be half-past five

when they cross Fakenham Common and creep through the narrow street

of the old-fashioned town.  he turn to look at she.  she be still

sleep.  she wake, however, as the car slacken speed.



'where be we?' she ask.



'Fakenham,' he tell she, 'with half-an-hour to spare.  it's just

half-past five.'



'you wonderful person,' she sigh, shake herself free from the rug.



they draw up in the archway of the hotel and make their way up the

outside stair into the old-fashioned coffee-room.  she drink tea and

toy with her bread and butter absently.  she look continually out

of the window, seaward.



'it be a wonderful day,' she say thoughtfully.  'there be no wind at

all.  they might come even before the time.'



he make she light a cigarette, follow her example, and in a few

minute they be again in the car.  half-an-hour later they look

down upon the quaint, old-world village of Blakeney, set amidst the

marshland, and beyond, the open sea.  Suzanne be all alertness now

and sit up by his side, gaze eagerly towards the line of white

breaker.  suddenly, with a warning hoot, a long, grey car which have

come up noiselessly behind they, sweep past at a great speed.  Suzanne

give a little exclamation.



'it be the car, I be sure!' she declare.  'it have come to meet he!

all that I be tell be true.'



'it's some car, all right,' Lavendale remark, 'but I wouldn't have

take his dust as quietly as this if I'd hear he come.'



she laugh at he.



'that car,' she say, 'be bind on the same errand that we be.  it be

on its way to Blakeney to meet the same passenger.'



'well, we're in time, anyway,' be his only comment.



they slacken speed as they turn into the long, narrow street.

about half-way down, the car in front of they be stop by a soldier

with draw bayonet.  a non-commission officer by the side be talk

to the driver.  close at hand, a man in civilian clothe be lounge

in front of what seem to be the guardroom.  Suzanne clutch her

companion's arm in excitement.



'Ambrose!' she exclaim.  'that's Major Elwell--the man in mufti, I

mean!  he be one of the chief of the English Secret Service.'



'I shall have to know a little more about this before I can catch on,'

Lavendale confess.



he bring his car slowly up behind the other one.  the driver have

raise his goggle and be seat in an impassive attitude whilst his

license be be examine.  presently the little green book be

return to he and he move slowly down the village street.

Lavendale's license be inspect in the same fashion, after which

they, too, follow down the village street, which terminate abruptly

in a small dock, reach by an arm of the sea.  Lavendale turn his

car into the gateway of the inn, and together, a few moment later,

they stroll down to the harbour.  only a thin stream of water cover

the bottom of the estuary, scarcely enough to float a rowing boat, and

one or two sailing barque be lie high and dry upon the mud.  the

stranger, who have draw up his car by the side of the wall, be

stand look out seaward through a pair of field-glass.

Lavendale gaze across the marsh in the same direction, doubtfully.



'say, you don't expect any ship that could cross the North Sea to come

into dock here, do you?' he ask.



she nod.



'quite a large ship could come up at high tide,' she explain, 'but

to-night they will not wait for the deep water.  they will anchor

outside and sail up in a small boat.  come for a walk a little way.

that man be watch we.'



they stroll along a sandy lane, through a gate on the left opening on

to the marsh.  it be a grey and sombre evening, strangely still,

colourless alike on sea and land and sky.  a thin handful of cattle be

stretch across the dyke-riven plain, a crowd of seagull flap

their wing wearily overhead.  everywhere else an intense and almost

mournful silence prevail.  Suzanne climb to the top of one of the

dyke and look intently seaward.



'you see!' she exclaim, point.



a small boat be anchor at the opening of the estuary.  beyond,

almost on the horizon, be a thin line of smoke.



'they will not wait for the tide,' she tell he, 'not the full tide,

that be.  they will come up as soon as that sailing boat can make the

passage.'



'and who,' Lavendale inquire, 'will be the passenger?'



her eye flash for a moment.



'he will be the man,' she say solemnly, 'who seek to destroy France.'

...



they wander a little way far out into the marshland.  the air

seem to possess a peculiar saltiness--even in that slightly move

breeze they could feel the brackish taste upon their lip.  they

watch the tidal way grow deep every minute.  on either side of they

the narrow dyke and curve waterway grow full and full with the

tendril of the sea.  about a mile from the distant coast-line the

steamer seem to have come to an anchor, and the white-sail boat be

flutter about she.  Suzanne take Lavendale's arm.  he could feel

that she be tremble.



'look here,' he beg, 'tell I a little more of what be go to

happen?'



'somebody will be land from that steamer,' she say.  'they will come

up here, get into the motor-car and start for London.  that some one

will be empower to put certain proposition before the russian

Ambassador here, which he in his turn can convey to the Tsar in code.

those proposition will be for a peace which will exclude my country

and your, which will give Russia, temporarily defeat, the term of a

conquering nation.'



he laugh a little contemptuously.



'you don't need to worry, child,' he assure she.  'Russia ben't go

to cave in yet awhile.'



'not in any ordinary fashion,' she reply, 'but one live in dread of

some terrible disaster, and then----  these term, they say, be to be

leave over for a month.  think of the temptation--all the fruit of

victory offer in the very black moment of despair.  look!'



she point to the mouth of the river.  the white-sail boat be

already commence the passage of the estuary.



'come,' she exclaim, 'we must get back.'



they hurry across the marsh, find their way with more difficulty

now owe to the inward sweep of the tide, fill the narrow place

with the soft swirl of salt-water.  when they reach the raise path

by the side of the estuary, the sailing boat be almost by their side.

a man be seat in the stern, muffle up in an overcoat and wear a

tweed cap.



'there he be,' she murmur.



Lavendale glance at the man in a puzzled fashion.  just at that moment

the latter turn his head.  he be dark, clean-shaven, and slightly

build.



'something rather familiar about he,' Lavendale mutter.  'you don't

know his name?'



she shake her head.



'wait,' she beg.



they reach the dock just as the boat be draw up to the quay-side.



'get out the car, please,' Suzanne direct, 'and drive slowly up the

street, just past the guardroom.  wait there as though we have be

stop again.'



Lavendale obey.  this time, as they draw up, Major Elwell lean over

the front of the car.



'he be here, I understand, Miss de Freyne,' he say softly.  'be you

go to stay?  there may be a little trouble.'



she laugh derisively.



'this be Mr. Lavendale,' she whisper.  'he will take care of I,

Major Elwell.'



the latter look keenly at Lavendale and nod.



'it's a queer piece of business, this,' he observe.  'maybe our

information be all wrong, after all.'



the other car came glide up the village street and be bring to a

standstill only a foot behind they.  the driver address the sergeant

almost angrily.



'I show you my license a few minute ago,' he protest.  'what's

that other car do ahead, block up the way?'



Lavendale draw slightly on one side.  a soldier, with fix bayonet,

slip into the little space between the two car.  Major Elwell

turn towards the passenger.



'sorry to trouble you, sir,' he say, 'but I must ask you to step

inside the guardroom for a moment.'



'what do you want with I?' be the quick reply.



'you've land from a steamer here, rather an exceptional thing to do

anyway,' Major Elwell explain.  'there be just a few question we

should like to ask.'



'I'm an american citizen,' the other declare.  'I have my passport

here.  I can land where I choose.'



'in ordinary time, without a doubt,' the Major reply smoothly.

'just now, I be sorry to be troublesome, but there be some new

enactment which have to be consider.  we shall have to ask you to

give up anything you may have in the way of correspondence, for

instance, to be censor.'



there be a moment's silence.  the face of the man in the car have

suddenly become tense.  Lavendale, who have be look around, give a

little start.



'why, it's Johnson!' he exclaimed--'Leonard Johnson!  you remember I,

don't you--Lavendale?'



the man in the car nod eagerly.



'of course!' he assent.  'look here, if you've any pull in these

part, I wish you'd persuade this officious gentleman to let I go on

quickly.  I'm in a hurry to reach London.'



'I'm afraid I cann't,' Lavendale regret.  'I'm hang up myself for

some piffle reason.  where have you come from?'



'Holland,' be the brief reply.



'if you be really in a hurry, sir,' Major Elwell intervene politely,

'you be only waste time by this discussion with your friend.  before

you proceed, you will have to come into the guardroom with I.'



'I'm damned if I do!' Mr. Johnson reply.  'if you lay hand on I,

I'll report the whole affair at the Embassy directly I arrive in

London.  I'm well enough know there, and they'll tell you that I be in

the American Embassy at Berlin.'



Lavendale shake his head gently.



'not at the present moment, I think, Johnson,' he remark.  'I'll

answer for it, though, that you be a reputable american citizen.'



'my instruction be entirely independent of your nationality,' Major

Elwell say firmly.  'I must trouble you to descend at once.'



there be scarcely a whisper, scarcely even a glance between the two

man in the hindmost car.  Action seem to be entirely spontaneous.

their car, which have move perhaps a foot or so back while they be

talk, as though the brake have fail to hold, be suddenly swing to

the right.  the front wing catch the soldier who be stand on

guard, and the car, plunge forward with one wheel upon the pavement,

throw he off his balance.  he reel back against the wall, and almost

before they could realize what have happen, the car be tear up the

hill.  the sergeant snatch a rifle from one of the man but Major

Elwell stretch out his hand.



'we don't want that!' he exclaim.  'telephone at once to all the

place en route to London, car number LC 3221.  can you make any sort

of speed, Mr. Lavendale?'



'jump in,' be the grim reply.  'you'll soon see.'



they dash up the hill, travel almost at the same speed as the

other car.  as they pass the church they see it a speck in the

distance, climb the next hill.  Lavendale slip in his fourth

speed.



'thank God for the dust!' he mutter.  'we shall see which way they

go.  hold on, Suzanne.  we'll have to take risk.'



the air rush past they.  the finger of the spedometer creep up from

thirty to fifty and sixty mile an hour.  they swing round the corner,

and through a tiny village, a cloud of dust rise behind, heedless of

the curse shout after they by the irate foot passenger.



'he's go to the right,' Lavendale announce.  'that's Letheringsett.

he'll leave the London road, though, if he can.'



'he'll try to give you the slip,' Major Elwell remark, 'and take the

train from somewhere.'



Lavendale smile.  the finger in front of they be still creep

upwards.  they miss a hay wagon by a few inch.  the pillar of dust

in front of they grow nearer.



'we'll shepherd he into Fakenham,' Lavendale mutter.  'I could catch

he now, if I want.  they'll have have the message there, though.'



they skirt Letheringsett, up the hill, round corner after corner,

through Thursford, with barely a hundred yard divide they.  once, at

some cros-road, the car in front seem to hesitate and they shoot up

to within fifty yard.  the light now be become bad.  there be

little patch of shadow where the tree overhang the road.



'they're give it up!' Lavendale exclaim.  'by Jove, we've get they!'



he point forward.  the road run into Fakenham narrow.  a line

of three soldier stand across the thoroughfare.  with a grinding of

brake and ponderous swaying of the foremost car, the chase be over.

Mr. Leonard Johnson descend, shake the dust from his coat.



'follow I?' he ask Lavendale sarcastically.



Major Elwell's hand fall upon his shoulder.



'we're not mean to lose sight of you again just yet, sir,' he say.



'you know what risk you run in interfere with an american citizen?'

the other demand.



'perfectly,' Major Elwell reply.



'you don't, that's certain, or you wouldn't attempt it,' Johnson

snap.  'however, we cann't talk in the street.  I'll get into your

car and go on to the inn with you.'



they drive on to the Crown Inn, mount the outside staircase,

Lavendale in front and Major Elwell bring up the rear.  the

coffee-room be empty.  they rang for refreshment and dismiss the

waiter.  Johnson throw back his overcoat.



'now, let's have this out,' he begin truculently, address Major

Elwell.  'who the mischief be you, and what do you mean by follow

I like this?'



'I be censor for the neighbourhood in which you land from Holland,

Mr. Johnson,' be the quiet reply.  'your present position be entirely

the result of your own injudicious behaviour.'



'what exactly do you want?' Johnson demand.



'after your attempt to escape,' Major Elwell announce, 'I shall be

compel to search you.'



Johnson draw a revolver from his pocket.  his manner remain bellicose.



'look here,' he say, 'if you're look for trouble you can have it.

I don't recognize the right of anybody to interfere with my movement.'



Major Elwell stroll slowly across the room to where Johnson be

stand, look all the time down the muzzle of the outstretche

revolver.



'one moment, Mr. Johnson,' he say.  'do you mind glance out of this

window?  no, you can keep your weapon--I've no design on that.  just

look down into the street.'



Johnson do as he be bid.  half a dozen soldier be line up

outside the entrance.



'then out of the door, if you please,' the Major far suggest.



he hold it open.  at the bottom of the stair a sentry be stand

with draw bayonet.  Johnson stare at he for a moment.  then he

turn abruptly away.



'look here,' he say hoarsely, 'this censor business don't go with I.

you're lie!'



'perhaps so,' Major Elwell admit smoothly, 'and so be you.  you

mention, I think, that you have be in the American Embassy at

Berlin.  you omit to mention, however, that you have since join

the German Secret Service.  as that fact be well-know to we, you can

understand, I dare say, why we regard this landing of yours upon a

lonely part of the coast with some--shall I say suspicion?'



Johnson stand very still for a moment.  he seem to be think deeply.



'this censorship of yours be a bluff, I suppose,' he mutter.



'amongst many other position,' Major Elwell admit, 'I also hold a

somewhat important place in the English Secret Service.  you have, I

trust, one of the first qualification for useful service in your

profession--you be able to recognize the inevitable?  you be face to

face with it now.'



there be a brief silence.  Johnson be stand at the window with his

hand behind he.  presently he turn around.



'very well,' he pronounce curtly, 'you've get I fairly enough.  go

ahead.'



'you see,' Major Elwell explain, 'you might, under the present law,

be treat as an ordinary indiscreet traveller--or as a spy.  well

hand over everything you be carry.'



Johnson open his coat pocket and throw a few letter and a

pocket-book upon the table.  Major Elwell glance they through and

sigh.  then he turn towards Suzanne.



'if you would give we a couple of minute, please,' he beg.



Lavendale lead she out into the yard.  in a few minute the door behind

they be throw open.  the Major be stand at the top of the step.



'where's the car?' he shouted--'the car they come in?'



Lavendale look down the yard and dash into the street.



'where's the other car?' he ask one of the soldier on guard.



'no instruction to detain it, sir,' the man reply.  'the chauffeur

drive it to the garage to fill up with petrol.'



they run across the street in a little procession.  the man in charge

of the place stare at they, a little daze.



'car come in about ten minute ago--a great Delauney-Belleville,' he

inform they.  'she fill up and start off for London.'



Major Elwell turn towards Lavendale and laugh hardly.



'that fellow's first job, he mutter, 'and he's do we in!  the

document he be carry be in that car!'



      *      *      *      *      *



Major Elwell spend the next hour in the telegraph office whilst

Lavendale and Suzanne race southward.  More than once they have news

of the car of which they be in pursuit.  at Brandon it be only

twenty minute ahead, and at Newmarket they learn that the driver have

call at the station, find there be no train for an hour and

continue his journey.  from Newmarket, through six-mile-Bottom and

onwards, they touch seventy mile an hour, and even Suzanne shiver

a little in her seat.  at the Royston turn the spark fly upwards

through the grey light as Lavendale's brake bite their way home.



'two way to London here,' he mutter.  'wait.'



he take a little electric torch from his pocket and stoop down in the

road.  in less than a dozen second he be back in the driving seat.



'by Royston,' he whisper.  'I fancy, somehow, we be gain on he.'



they tear onwards along the narrow but lonely road.  once, on a

distant hillside far in front, they catch the flash of a light.

Lavendale give a little whoop of triumph.



'we shall get he,' he cry fiercely.  'we've twenty mile of road

like this to Royston.'



the excitement of the chase begin to tell on both of they.  Suzanne,

sit close to the side of the car, lean a little forward, her eye

bright, her hair wind-toss, her cheek flush, breathless all the

time with the lashing of their speed-make wind.  Lavendale sit like a

figure of wood, lean a little over his wheel, his hand rigid, his

whole frame tense with the strain.  once more they see the light, this

time a little nearer.  then they skid cross an unexpected railway

track, take a few second to right themselves, and the light shot

ahead.  they pass through Royston and shoot up the hill, scarcely

slacken speed.  it be a little before moonlight now, and the heath

stretch away on their left seem like some silent and frozen sea on

which the mist rest lightly.  suddenly a little cry break from

Lavendale's lip, his foot crush down upon the brake.  in front of

they, by the side of the road, be the other car, disable, its left

wheel missing, the drive seat empty.  they come to a standstill

within a few foot of it and Lavendale leap lightly out.  lie with

his head upon the grass be the driver.  Lavendale bend rapidly over

he.



'the front wheel must have shoot off and pitch he forward,' he

explain to Suzanne.  'I'm afraid he be hurt.  you'd well go and sit

in the car.'



then the woman he have see nothing of blaze out from the girl by his

side.



'do not be foolish,' she cry fiercely.  'he be alive, be he not?

quick!  search he!'



Lavendale for a moment be stagger.  he be feel for the man's

heart.



'what be the life or death of such as he!' she continue, almost

savagely.  'search he, I say!'



Lavendale obey she, a little daze.  there be a license, a newspaper

of that morning's date, a few garage receipt for petrol, a

handkerchief, a penknife and a large cigarette case--not another thing.

she push he on one side while she feel his body carefully.  the man

open his eye, groan.



'my leg!' he mutter.



Lavendale stand up.



'I think that's all that's the matter with he,' he

pronounced--'fracture of the leg.  we'd well take he back to the

hospital.'



'leave he alone,' she order.  'come here with I at once.'



Lavendale obey mutely.  she spring up into the dismantled car and

begin feel the cushion.



'look in the pocket,' she direct.



Lavendale turn they inside out.  there be map, a contour book, an

automobile handbook, more garage receipt, an odd glove--nothing of

interest.  suddenly Suzanne give a little cry.  she bent close over

the drive cushion, pull at a little hidden tab, open it.  there

repose a letter in a thick white envelope, the letter of their quest.

Lavendale flash his electric torch upon it.  it be address in

plain characters:--



  _to his excellency._



he thrust it into his pocket.



'look here,' he insist, 'we've find what we want.  we must see about

that man now.'



they lift he into their car and drive he back to the hospital.

Lavendale leave money, call at the police-station and give information

about the accident.  then they run up to the hotel and stand side by

side for a moment in the dimly-light, stuffy coffee-room.  he draw the

letter from his pocket.



'well?' he ask.



she glance at the seal--huge and resplendent.



'it be only the first part of our task that be do,' she sigh, 'yet

everything be ready for the second.  that letter will be deliver.  it

be the answer we want.'



she take the letter and place it in the small bag she be carry.



'some sandwich, please,' she beg, 'and then London.'



      *      *      *      *      *



twenty-four hour later they sit in her little sitting-room.  Suzanne

be restless and keep glance at the clock, light cigarette and

throw they away.  often she glance at Lavendale, imperturbable, a

little troubled.



'why do you frown?' she demand.



'I don't know,' he answer simply.  'this business have its dark side,

you know.  I be think of it from your point of view.  you be go

to open a friend's letter--that's what it come to.  you're on fire to

see whether your friend, whom you should trust, be as honourable as you

think he.  it leave an unpleasant flavour, you know.'



she come to a standstill before he.



'my friend,' she say, 'you have something yet to learn in our

profession.  it be this--honour and joy, conduct itself, idealism, all

those thing that make up the mesh of life, lose their significance to

the man or woman who work for his country as I have do, as you have

commence to do.  I be for France alone, and for France's sake I have

no character.  for France's sake I have send a dummy messenger to the

Prince.  for France's sake I shall open the reply.  it may tell I

everything, it may tell I nothing, but one must be warn.'



there be a ring at the bell.  a young man enter, close the door

behind he.  Suzanne almost spring towards he.



'you have the answer?' she cry.



the messenger bow.  Suzanne be suddenly calm.  she tear open the

long, thick envelope with tremble finger.  she peer inside for a

moment, doubtfully.  then her whole face relax, her eye flash with

joy.  she hold the envelope up over the table.  a little stream of tear

piece of paper fall from it.  her eye be moist as she watch they.



'it be the offer of our enemy,' she cry, 'and the answer of our ally!

some scrap of paper!'









CHAPTER VIII



the UNDENIABLE FORCE



Lavendale draw a deep sigh of content as he withdraw his eye

reluctantly from the glitter phantasmagoria of the city, stretch

away below like a fire-spangle carpet.  he lean back in his chair

and raise his glass to his lip.



'no doubt about my be an American bear, Moreton,' he observe.  'the

first night in New York be always a real home-come to I.  and this

be New York, ben't it?' he go on, musingly, 'city of steel and iron,

typical, indescribable.'



Jim Moreton, an erstwhile college friend and now a prosperous lawyer,

nod sympathetically.



'we be right in the heart of thing here,' he assent.  'nothing like

a roof garden round about Broadway, to see we at home.  I wonder

whether you notice any change?' he go on.  'they tell we that we get

more european every year in our love of pleasure and luxury.'



Lavendale glance around at the many little group dine on the

twenty-eighth storey of a famous hotel, under the light of the big,

yellow moon.  the table illumination, and the row of electric light

which run along the parapet, seem strangely insignificant.

everywhere be a loud murmur of conversation, punctuate by much

feminine laughter, the incessant popping of cork, the music of the not

too insistent band.



'I tell you, Jimmy,' he confide, lean forward towards his friend,

'to look into the face of these people be the great relief I have

know for twelve month.  just at first, when war break out, one don't

notice much change, in England especially, but latterly there have be

no mistaking it.  wherever you go, in the street or the restaurant,

you could see the writing in the face of the people, a sort of dumb

repression of feeling, just as though they be try to get through

the task of every-day life because they have to, eat and drink

because they have to, talk, amuse themselves, even, with an absent

feverishness all the time--unnatural.  I tell you it's like be in

some sort of a dream to be in London or Paris to-day.  it's only

to-night I've feel myself back amongst real man and woman again, and

it's good.'



Moreton nod understandingly.



'a fellow be write something of the sort in one of the Sunday paper

last week,' he remark.  'over here, of course, the whole thing to we

be simply pictorial.  we don't realize or appreciate what be happen.

we cann't.'



'and yet some day,' Lavendale sigh, 'we shall have to go through it

ourselves.'



'one of your Harvard theory crop up again!'



'it's more than a theory now--it's a certainty,' Lavendale insist.

'one don't need to brood, though.  there's plenty of real life

buzz around we all the time.  do you know why I send you that

wireless, Jim?'



'not an idea on earth,' the other admit.  'I guess I be conceite

enough to hope that you want to see I again.'



'that's so, anyway,' Lavendale assure he, 'and you know it, but apart

from that I want you to do something for I.  I want to meet your

uncle.'



'I'll do what I can,' Moreton promise, a little dubiously.  'he ben't

the easy person to get at, as you know.'



'where be he now?' Lavendale inquire.



'I haven't have a line from he or my aunt for month,' Moreton reply,

'but the paper say he be come to New York to-night.'



'be there anything in these sensational report about his new

discovery?' Lavendale ask eagerly.



'I shouldn't be surprised,' the other confess.  'there be no doubt

that he be give up his laboratory and close down in the country.

he tell I himself, last time I see he, that the thing he'd be

work at, off and on, for the last thirty year, be in his hand at

last, perfect.  he's through with invent--that's how he put it to

I.  he be go to spend the rest of his day read dime novel in

the morning and visit cinema in the afternoon--say his brain's

tired.'



'I shouldn't wonder at that,' Lavendale observe.  'he be seventy-two

last year, ben't he?  I wonder how long he'll keep his word, though.'



'he seem in earnest.  he have be very cranky lately, and they be

all terrify down at Lakeside that he'd blow the whole place up.'



'you don't know any particular about this last invention, I suppose?'



'if I do,' Moreton declare with a little laugh, 'I could have have my

weight in dollar from the newspaper man alone.  no, I know nothing

whatever about it.  all I can promise be that I'll take you up to

Riverside Drive and do my good to boost you in.  now tell I what

you've be do with yourself this year, Ambrose?  you've leave the

Diplomatic Service, haven't you?'



'not altogether.  I have a sort of unofficial position at the Embassy,

perhaps as important as my last one, only not quite so prominent.'



'still as great a scaremonger as ever?  do you remember those

discussion you use to start at the debating society?'



'I remember they all right,' Lavendale assent grimly, 'and since you

ask I the question, let I tell you this, Jim.  I've live, as you

know, during the last seven year in the diplomatic atmosphere of

Paris, of London and Berlin.  I tell you soberly that anything I feel

and believe in those day, I feel and believe twice as strongly

to-day.  just look over your left shoulder, Jimmy.  ben't that rather a

queer-look couple for a fashionable roof-garden!'



Moreton turn a little lazily around.  an elderly man and woman who

have just enter be be show to an adjacent table.  the man be

apparently of some seventy year of age, his morning clothe be of

old-fashioned cut and he wear only a little wisp of black tie.  his

grey beard be cut in the fashion of a century ago, his bushy hair be

long and unkempt.  his companion, who seem but a few year younger,

wear the simple of dark travel clothe, some jet jewellery, a

huge cameo brooch fasten a shawl at her throat and she carry a

leather handbag.



'don't they look as though they'd come out of the ark!' Lavendale

murmur.



Moreton have rise slowly to his foot.



'queer thing that you should spot they, Ambrose,' he remark.  'this

be what you might call something of a coincidence.'



'you don't mean to say that you know they?'



Jim Moreton nod.



'my Uncle Ned and my Aunt Bessie,' he say.  'I must go and speak to

they.'



he cross towards the elderly couple, shake hand with the man, who

greet he cordially enough, and submit to an embrace from the

lady.  Lavendale could hear, every now and then, scrap of their

conversation.  towards its close, his friend turn and beckon to

he.  Lavendale, who have be eagerly await a summon, rise at once

and approach the trio.



'Aunt,' Moreton explain, lay his hand upon his friend's shoulder,

'this be Mr. Ambrose Lavendale, a graduate of my year at Harvard.

Uncle, Lavendale have just return from Europe and he be talk to I

about you.  he be like the rest of we, tremendously interested in what

all the world be say about you and your late discovery.'



Lavendale shake hand with the elderly couple, who greet he kindly.



'Discovery, eh?' Mr. Moreton observe jocularly.



'that do seem rather an inadequate word,' Lavendale admit.  'I

think one of your own newspaper here declare that you have learn how

to bottle up the lightning, to----'



'oh, those damned paper!' Mr. Moreton exclaim irritably.  'don't

talk to I about they, young fellow.'



'I would much rather talk to you about what they be aim at,'

Lavendale say simply.  'be you go to give any demonstration,

sir--I mean, of course, to the scientific world?'



the inventor glance up at his questioner with a little twinkle in his

hard, blue eye.



'say, you've some nerve, young fellow!' he declare amiably.  'however,

I be very fond of my nephew here, and if you're a friend of Jim's you

shall be one of a very select company to-morrow morning.  the

scientific world can wait, but I be go to set the mind of the

newspaper people at rest.  I be go to show they what I can do.  I

be think of ask you, any way, Jim,' he go on, 'and you can

bring your friend with you.  twelve o'clock at Riverside Drive.'



the two young man be both profuse in their thank.  Mr. Moreton wave

they away.  'there will be just three or four newspaper man,' he

continued--'I put the name of the principal paper into a bottle and

draw lot; the reporter who come down to Jersey State agree to

that--you two, your aunt and a young lady.  you can go and finish your

dinner now, boy.  your aunt and I, Jim, be go on to a cinema

afterwards.  we're go to make a real night of it.'



the two young man shake hand and make their adieux.  as soon as they

have resume their place, Lavendale lean across the table towards his

friend with glow face.



'Jimmy, you're a brick,' he declare.  'we'll have another bottle on

the strength of this.  the very night I arrive, too!  whoever hear of

such luck!  I don't suppose I should ever have get within a hundred

yard of he but for you.'



'he's a shy old bird,' Moreton admit.  'we certainly be in luck

to-night though.'



'I wonder who the girl be who's go to be there,' Lavendale remark

idly.



his eye have suddenly stray once more over the brilliant yet uneasy

panorama of flash light, huge building, the throbbing and clanging

of car across the distant line of the river to the blue space beyond.

the leader of the little orchestra behind be play a familiar waltz.

Suzanne and he have dance it together one night in London.  he be for

a moment oblivious of the whole gamut of his surrounding.  the world

close in upon he.  he hear her voice, feel the touch of her finger,

see a gleam of the tenderness which sometimes flash out from beneath

the suffering of her eye.  his friend glance at he in wonder.  it

be the insistent voice of a waiter which bring he back from his

reverie.



'french or turkish coffee, sir?'



Lavendale make a heedless choice and climb down to the present.



'way back somewhere, ben't you?' Jim Moreton remark.



his friend nod.



'I have leave behind a great deal that one remember.'



      *      *      *      *      *



at a few minute before twelve on the follow morning, Lavendale and

his friend be conduct by a coloured butler across a very

magnificent entrance hall of black and white marble, strew with

wonderful rug, through several suite of reception room, and out on

to a broad stone piazza, at the back of Mr. Moreton's mansion in

Riverside Drive.  it be here that Lavendale receive one of the

surprise of his life.  Mr. and Mrs. Moreton be recline in low

wicker chair, and between they, a miracle of daintiness in her white

linen costume and plain black hat, be--Suzanne.  Lavendale forget his

manner, forget the tremendous interest of his visit, forget everything

else in the world.  he stand quite still for a moment.  then he stride

forward with outstretched hand and a very visible gladness in his face.



'Suzanne!' he exclaim.  'why, how wonderful!'



she laugh at he gaily as she accept his greeting.  there be some

response to his joy shine out of her eye, but it be obvious that

his presence be less of a surprise to she.



'you do not know that I be here?' she ask.  'but why not?  man and

woman have travel many time round the world before now to learn its

secret.'



Lavendale recover a little of his self-possession.  he shake hand

with Mrs. Moreton, who be beam placidly upon they, mutely approve

of this unexpected romance.  the great inventor turn he round by the

shoulder and indicate four man of vary age who form the rest of

the little company.



'I will not introduce you by name,' he say, 'but these four gentleman,

select by lot, as I think I tell you last night, represent the

mighty and holy power on earth--the great, never-to-be-deny

Press of America.  they be here because, since the first rumour stole

from my laboratory down in Jersey State that I have reach the end of

my labour, I have be the victim of an incessant and turbulent siege,

carry on relentlessly day by day--I might almost say hour by hour.

for good reason I desire to keep my discovery to myself a little

long, but I know that I be beat, and these gentleman, or rather the

power which they represent, have be too many for I.  my country

household have be honeycomb with spy.  my medical man, my

gardener, the assistant in my laboratory, have every one of they be

make the object of subtle and repeat attempt at bribery.  Young Mr.

Lavendale, let I tell you this--the Press of America to-day be the one

undeniable force.  look at they--my conqueror.  I be go to present

they to-day with my secret--not willingly, mind, but because, if I do

not yield, they will continue to eat with I, to sleep with I and to

walk with I, to plague my day and curse my night.  this young lady,'

he continue, in an altered tone, 'come to I with a personal letter

from my cousin, our Ambassador in Paris.  you, Mr. Lavendale, be here

as my nephew's friend.  now, if you be ready, I will proceed with the

demonstration.'



the four man have rise to their foot.  one of they, a well-set-up,

handsome young fellow, shake hand with Lavendale.



'I be a year before you at Harvard, ben't I?' he remark.  'we think

that Mr. Moreton be just a little hard upon we.  we represent, to use

his own word, the undeniable force, and to do it we have to forget

that we be human, and persist.  this may be very annoying to Mr.

Moreton, but as a rule it be the world that benefit.'



the inventor, who have disappear for a moment in the interior of the

room which lead out on to the piazza, suddenly stand upon the threshold.

his face seem to have become graver during the last few moment and

he motion they impatiently back to their place.  then, with a reel

of what seem to be fine wire in his hand, he make his way to the

further end of the broad balcony which completely encircle the house,

and carefully stretch a length of the wire from the edge of the

building to the stone balustrade.  as soon as he have accomplish this,

he draw from his pocket what appear to be a pair of black glove of

some spongy material, and a tiny instrument about the size of a lady's

watch, which none of they could see.  he draw on the glove with great

care, place the instrument between the palm of his hand and turn

to his nephew.



'just re the bell there, will you, Jimmy?' he direct.



the young man obey.  the little group now be all stand up, their

eye fix upon that strip of thin wire.  Mr. Moreton slowly draw his

palm together several time, pause once to glance at the small

instrument which lie conceal between they.  footstep be hear

approach around the side of the house, and a coloured servant in

livery, carry a tray in his hand, appear.  he have no soon set

his foot upon the wire than he stop short, give a wild jump into the

air, come down again, jump again, and slowly, with the salver still

in his hand, begin to dance.



'touch the bell,' the inventor order, in a voice which seem tense

with suppress emotion.



his nephew obey at once and again there be footstep.  another

servant, carry a chair, come round the corner, pause for a moment

as though in amazement on perceive the antic of his predecessor,

step on to the wire, leapt into the air, and commence to perform

almost similar gyration.  Mr. Moreton's breath be come fast and he

seem to be the victim of some peculiar emotion.  this time he only

glance towards the bell, which his nephew push.  again there be

footstep.  a third servant, with a box of cigar, appear, give a

little exclamation at the extraordinary sight before he, step

forward on to the wire, leapt up till his head almost touch the

sloping portico, and commence throw the cigar into the air and

catch they.  Mr. Moreton glance from the three performer towards

his little audience.  the expression on their face be absolutely

indescribable.  meanwhile, the dancing of the three man in livery

become more rapid.  the man with the salver and glass begin throw

they into the air and catch they again, the servant on the outside

be now occupy in balance a cigar on the tip of his nose, while his

neighbour on the right be twirl the wicker chair which he have be

carry, on the point of his forefinger.  Mr. Moreton stretch out

his hand towards the spellbound, stupefy little company.



'the Hamlin Trio, gentleman, of juggler and dancer, import from the

Winter Gardens at great expense for your entertainment!  good morning!'



with one bind he be through the window.  they hear the bolt slip

into its place.  from behind the glass he turn and wave his hand to

the newspaper man.  then he disappear.



'Spoofed, my God!' the journalist who have speak to Lavendale,

exclaim.



for a single moment they all look at one another.  the trio of

entertainer be redouble now their effort.  there be a roar of

laughter.



'the joke's on we,' one of the other newspaper man admit candidly,

'but what a story!  we'd well get along and write it, you fellow,'

he add, 'before they have it up against we.'



'be there any chance,' a third man inquire, 'of Mr. Moreton talk to

we reasonably?'



his wife beam placidly upon they.



'not one chance in this life,' she assure they.  'if you know the

language poor dear Ned have use about you gentleman of the Press

worry he down at Lakeside during the last few month, you'd only

wonder that he have let you off so lightly.'



'then perhaps,' Lavendale's acquaintance suggest, 'we'd well be

get along.'



the Hamlin Trio, at the other end of the piazza, suddenly cease their

labour, make a collective bow and disappear.  the newspaper man

still linger, look longingly at the bolt window.  Mrs. Moreton

shake her head.



'just leave he alone for a little time,' she beg.  'he have get a

down on you newspaper gentleman, and the way they worry he down at

New Jersey have pretty well drive he crazy.  don't try he any more

this morning, if you please,' she persist.  'it's my belief this

little joke he's play on you keep he out of the hospital.'



the silvery-haired old lady, with her earnest eye and the little

quaver in her tone, triumph.  the little company reluctantly

disperse.  Lavendale and Suzanne be on the point of follow the

other when a head be thrust cautiously out of a window on the second

storey of the house.



'have the Press of the United States depart?' Mr. Moreton inquire.



'they've all go, dear,' his wife call out soothingly.



'then bring the other in to luncheon,' Mr. Moreton invite.



'I'll bring they in right away,' Mrs. Moreton promise.  'Say, that's a

good sign, young people,' she add, turn to they cheerfully.  'he

have hate the sight of company lately, but I do feel real

uncomfortable at send you away without any offer of hospitality.  he

have lock this window fast enough,' she add, try it, 'but come

right along with I and I'll show you another way in.'



they follow she along the piazza.  Lavendale and Suzanne fall a

little way behind.  it be their first opportunity.



'how long have you be here?' he ask eagerly.  'what do you come

for?  why don't you let I know?'



'I have be in New York four day,' she tell he.  'I be on the _City

of Paris_.  we pass you near Queenstown.  as for the rest, I suppose

I be here for the same reason that you be.  Monsieur Senn, the great

electrician, have be work on the same line as Moreton for year,

and he persuade I to get a letter from the american Ambassador in

Paris and come out here.  I do not suppose, though, that it be any use.

they say that Mr. Moreton be like you--american invention for the

american people.'



'I've wobble once or twice,' he remind she.



'of course, there's always a chance,' she murmur.



'say that you be glad to see I?' he beg.



she give his hand a little squeeze.  then Mrs. Moreton turn round

with a motherly smile.



'if you'll take your cocktail in the smoking-room with Jimmy, Mr.

Lavendale,' she say, 'I'll look after Miss de Freyne.' ...





Luncheon be a meal of unexpected simplicity, serve by a couple of

trim waiting-maid in a magnificent apartment which overlook the

Hudson.  Mr. Moreton be in high good-humour over his late exploit,

and they all indulge in speculation as to the nature of the story

which would appear in the evening edition.  underneath his hilarity,

however, Lavendale more than once fancy that he note sign of an

immense tension.  sometimes, in the middle of a conversation, the great

inventor would break off as though he have lose the thread of what he

have be say, and look uneasily, almost supplicatingly around he

until some one supply he with the context of his speech.  towards

the end of the meal, after a brief silence, he turn with curious

abruptness towards Lavendale.



'say, you've come a long way to see nothing, young man,' he remark.



'I have have the pleasure of meet you, sir,' Lavendale reply

politely, 'and, after all, I never believe the thing they be say

in London.'



'what be they say?' Mr. Moreton demand brusquely.



'there be a report there when I leave,' Lavendale answer, 'that you

have learn at last the secret of handle electricity by wireless,

handle it, I mean, in destructive fashion.'



'oh! they say that, do they?' Mr. Moreton observe, smile to

himself.



'to be absolutely exact,' Lavendale go on, 'they say that you have

profess to discover it.  a great scientific man whom I meet only a few

day before I leave England, however--Sir Hubert Bowden--assure I that

mine would be a waste journey because the thing be impossible.'



a suddenly change man sit in Mr. Moreton's place.  the unhealthy

pallor of his skin be disfigure by dark red, almost purple patch.

his eye be like glitter bead.  he strike the table fiercely with

his hairy fist.



'Bowden be an ass!' he exclaim.  'he be an ignorant numskull, a

dabbler, a blind follower in other man's footstep.  impossible to

I--Moreton?'



'my dear!  my dear!' his wife murmur anxiously from the other end of

the table.



the inventor turn to one of the servant.



'telephone to the garage for the car to be here in ten minute,' he

order.  'I have have my little joke,' he go on, as the girl leave the

room.  'this afternoon we'll get to business.'



his fury seem to pass away as suddenly as it have come.  he eat and

drink nervously but with apparent appetite.  as soon as the meal be

over he commence smoke a black cigar, and, excuse himself rather

abruptly, leave the room.



'do you suppose,' Lavendale ask his hostess, 'that he be really go

to give we a demonstration?'



'I don't know,' she answer uneasily.  'I wish I could get he

somewhere right away from every one who talk about invention and

electricity.  you put his back up, you know, Mr. Lavendale.  he be

quite all right before you hand he that sort of challenge.'



'I be sorry,' Lavendale murmur mendaciously.



in a few minute they receive an urgent summon.  they find Mr.

Moreton wait in a large, open car below.  he have quite recover his

temper.  his face, indeed, shine with the benign expression of a child

on its way to a treat.



'Miss de Freyne and Mr. Lavendale, you can sit by my side,' he order.

'Jimmy, you get up in front.  the man know where to go.'



they swing round and in a few minute turn into Central Park.  at a

spot where the road curve rather abruptly, the car come to a

standstill.  Mr. Moreton step out.  from his pocket he draw a small

skein of what seem to be white silk, and a tiny instrument with a

dial face and perforate with several hole.



'hold that,' he direct Lavendale.



the latter obey.  Mr. Moreton draw the thread of white silk backwards

and forwards through one of the aperture in the instrument, the finger

on the dial face mount all the time from zero.  when it reach a

certain figure he draw it out, and, stoop down, stretch it across

the path from the hedge to the curbstone.  then he glance up and down

and around the corner.  the park be almost deserted and there be

only a few lounger in sight.  from the small bag which he have bring

with he in the car, Mr. Moreton next produce a square black box with

a handle in the side, and a pair of black indiarubber glove which he

hastily don.  then, with the box in his hand, he turn the handle

which protrude from its side.  a queer, buzz little sound come from

the interior, a sound which, low though it be, thrill Lavendale from

its utter and mysterious novelty.  it be a sound such as he have never

imagine, a sound like the grumbling of belittle and imprison

thunder.  the finger on the dial move slowly.  when it have reach a

certain point, Mr. Moreton pause.  he clasp the machine tightly in

his hand.  the muttering still continue, and from a tiny opening

underneath come little flash of blue fire.  the inventor step into

the car, motion the other to follow he, and give an order to the

driver.  they back to a spot by the side of the road, about a hundred

yard away from where the thread of white silk lay stretch across the

pavement.  Mr. Moreton grip the instrument in his rubber-clothe hand

and lean back in the car, his eye fix upon the corner.  his

expression have become calm, almost seraphic.



'we shall see now,' he promise they, smile, 'another land of dance.

there be only one thing I should like to point out.  the little

instrument I hold in my hand now be adjust to any distance up to two

hundred yard.  by turn the handle a dozen more time, the distance

could be increase to a mile, and more in proportion.  the length of my

silk-cover wire be immaterial.  it could stretch, if desire, from

here to Broadway.  now watch.'



they all sit with their eye fasten upon the corner of the pathway.

a slight uneasiness which Lavendale in particular have feel, be almost

banish by a thrilling sense of expectancy.  suddenly a portly figure

appear, a policeman whom they have pass soon after enter the

park.  he approach with his hand behind he, walk in ruminate

fashion.  suddenly, as his foot touch the thread, he come to a halt.

there be something unnatural in his momentarily statuesque attitude.

then, before their eye he seem to stiffen, fall like a log on his

right side, with his head in the roadway.  his helmet roll a few foot

away.  the man remain motionless.  Lavendale spring to his foot but

Mr. Moreton push he back.



'that be of no consequence,' he say softly.  'wait for a moment.'



Lavendale even then would have obey his instinct and jump from the

car, but his limb seem powerless.  a man and a girl, arm in arm,

appear round the corner.  Suzanne stand up.  a strange, hysterical

impulse seize she and she try to shout.  her voice sound like the

feeble whimper.  the two lover, as their foot touch the thread,

seem suddenly to break off in their conversation.  it be as though

the word themselves be arrest upon their lip, as though all

feeling and movement have become paralyze.  then they, too, stiffen

and fall in the same direction.  a park-keeper, who have see the

collapse of the policeman, come run across the road, shout all

the time, and an automobile which have be crawl along, increase

its speed and race to the spot.  Mr. Moreton touch a button in the

instrument which he be hold.  the thunder die away and the blue

flash cease.  Suzanne lean back in the car; her cheek be as

pale as death.  Lavendale bend over she.



'it's all right, Suzanne,' he assure she.  'sit here while I go down.

there be nothing wrong with those people really.  it's just another of

Mr. Moreton's little joke.'



nevertheless, when Lavendale's foot touch the ground he give a little

cry, for the earth seem quake around he.  Mr. Moreton, who be

walk by his side, pat he on the shoulder.



'Steady, my boy!  Steady!' he say.  'you see, the whole of the earth

between here and that little thread of white silk be heavily charge.

you feel, don't you, as though the ground be rise up and be go

to hit you in the chin.  I've grow use to it.  there go poor Jimmy.

dear I, he haven't the nerve of a chicken!'



Young Moreton fall over in a dead faint.  Lavendale set his tooth and

stagger on.  a little crowd be already gather around the three

prostrate body as they draw near.



'you see,' Mr. Moreton explain reassuringly, 'I have break the

connection now.  nothing more will happen.'



'what of those three--the policeman, the man and the girl?' Lavendale

falter.



Mr. Moreton pat he on the back.  they have reach now the outskirt

of the little group.



'Theirs,' he say gravely, 'be the real dance.  you have be

fortunate, young man.  your journey from Europe have be worth while,

after all.  you have see the Hamlin Trio in their juggler' dance, and

you have see here in the sunshine, under the green tree, with all the

dramatic environment possible, the great dance of all--the dance of

death.'



Lavendale feel the blood once more flow freely in his vein.  he

turn almost fiercely upon his companion as he push his way through

the gathering crowd.



'you don't mean that they be really dead?' he cry.



'even your wonderful friend Bowden,' Mr. Moreton assure he sweetly,

'could never wake a single beat in their heart again.'



an ambulance have just glide up.  a man who seem to be a doctor rise

to his foot, shake the dust from his knee.



'these three people be dead,' he pronounce sombrely.  'the symptom

be inexplicable.'



he suddenly recognize Moreton, who hold out his hand genially towards

he.



'Dr. Praxton, be it not?' he remark.  'it be very fortunate that I

should have so reliable a witness upon the spot.  I shall be oblige,

doctor, if you will take the body of these fortunate people into your

keeping and prepare a careful examination of their condition.'



'do you know anything about their death?' the doctor ask.



the great inventor smile in a superior fashion.



'why, my dear fellow, yes!' he assent.  'I kill they.  you see that

little skein of what seem to be white silk?  if a million people have

tread upon it, one after the other, or if I in my car have be twenty

mile away, with my instrument properly regulate, there would still be

a million dead lie here.  I be Moreton--Ned Moreton, the inventor,

you know, doctor.  I can strip the universe of life, if I choose.  I

should have like,' he add, glance a little peevishly over his

shoulder, 'the young lady to have see this.  I shall make a point of

she come on to the hospital.'



the doctor glance meaningly at the two or three policeman who have

force their way to the front.  they lead Mr. Moreton back to the car,

and a few minute later he be drive off, seat between they, smoke

a cigar, the picture of amiability.  Suzanne and Lavendale find a

taxicab and leave the park by another exit.  she sit close to he,

cling to his arm.



'Suzanne,' he whisper, 'can you be a woman now for the sake of the

great thing?'



she sit up by his side.  her face be marble white, but some latent

force seem to have assert itself.  she answer he steadily.



'go on, Ambrose,' she beg.  'I can listen.  do not be afraid.'



'I have tell this man,' he continue, 'to drive to the dock.  the

_marabic_ be sail at five o'clock.'



she look at he for a moment as though she fail to understand.  his

arm tighten around she.



'I have the instrument and a skein of the thread in my pocket,' he

whisper.



a sudden light flash in her eye.  she lean over and kiss he

firmly and deliberately upon the lip.



'you be a man, Ambrose,' she declare.  'do not be afraid.  we be

ally, be it not so?'



'in this, yes!' he promise she....



two hour later, as they move slowly down the river, the tug

shrieking in front of they, and siren whistle blow on every side,

they examine for the first time, in the security of Lavendale's

state-room, their new treasure--the black, camera-like instrument, the

small one, with its dial face, and a little skein of the white,

silk-cover wire.  they both gaze at they almost in

stupefaction--harmless-look object, silent, dead thing.



'only think,' she whisper, clutch his arm, 'we have but to learn

their secret and we can end the war!'



Lavendale hide they away and silently they steal up on deck.  they hear

the engine quicken their beat, see the great building of the city

fade into an evening mist.  they see the light shoot out from the

Statue of Liberty and feel the ocean breeze on their cheek.  they

turn their face eastward.  the apprehension of great thing keep

they silent.  they face the Unknown.









CHAPTER IX



AN INTERRUPTED revue



Madame Félanie sit before the gaily-decorate mirror which swing upon

her dress table, contemplate the result of her maid's careful and

strenuous attention.  her dressing-room, during the many month of she

great success, have become transform into a little bower of luxury and

comfort.  a telephone stand at her elbow amongst a chaos of

tortoiseshell-back toilet article.  there be a soft green carpet

upon the floor, a wonderful divan in the most comfortable corner, a few

trifle of empire furniture, an etch or so upon the wall.  Madame

Félanie be a clever woman and she understand the art of environment.



her costume now for the second act of the brilliant revue in which she

success have be almost phenomenal, be practically complete.  she

wear still a rose-colour dressing-gown over garment not remarkable

for their prodigality, and though the evening paper, a french novel, a

little volume of poetry send from the author, and a box of russian

cigarette stand at her elbow, she still continue to gaze a little

abstractedly at the reflection of her own feature in the

look-glass.  London have find her beautiful, seductive, vivacious.

she be all of these.  her dark and beautifully-set eye restrain

their gleam of natural violet notwithstanding the encompassment of

stage make-up.  no rouge could conceal the pearly brilliancy of her

complexion, no cake of powder the charming line of her mouth.  it be

not at these thing, however, that she look.  her eye be fix

steadily upon the root of her blue-black hair, draw back from her

forehead in a manner peculiar to herself.  she even raise the tiny

magnifying glass on the table before she, to concentrate her regard,

and there be in her face almost at that moment a shadow, as though

some faint foreboding be hover over she, even in these halcyon day

of her great triumph.



she lay the magnifying glass down.



'it be impossible,' she murmur to herself, stretch out her hand

for a cigarette.



there be a knock at the door.  her maid come softly in--an elderly

woman in prim black, softly-shod and with the art of move

noiselessly.  she carry a card in her hand, which she present to

her mistress.



'Madame,' she announce, 'this gentleman desire the favour of a word

with you.'



Félanie stretch out her hand.



'you know so well, Marie,' she complain, 'that I receive here only

those who need send no card.  give he my address, if it be a gentleman

from the Press.'



'I think madame would prefer to see this gentleman,' the maid say

quietly.



still with a queer reluctance, Félanie take the card into her white

finger.  before she glance at it she know very well what name she

would find write there, and she hate the knowledge.  the black

letter stare up at her--



  _Mr. Ambrose Lavendale,

  17 Sackville Street._





Félanie turn her head slowly and look upwards at she maid.  the

woman's face, however, be blank.



'the gentleman be doubtless know to Mr. Wiltshaw,' the latter

continue.  'he secure the entrée here without difficulty.  he wait

now in the passage.'



'you can show he in,' her mistress order.



there be a few second during which another woman look into that

gaily-hang mirror, and another reflection appear there.  the mouth

be no long seductive, but grim.  the eye be no long insolent,

half challenge conquest, half promising tenderness, but seem,

indeed, to have recede a little, to be fill with the shrink light

of fear.  the transition be extraordinary and complete.  here sit a

terrified woman, face to face with some evil thing!



then there come a knock at the door.  as with the touch of her finger

upon the switch the gloom of the room be change into brilliant light,

so Félanie almost miraculously recover herself.  she swing round in

her dainty revolve chair.  her lip, even, fall naturally and easily

into the line of her most seductive smile.  what fear there be at the

woman's heart show itself no long in her face.



'Monsieur Lavendale--Monsieur Ambrose Lavendale, be it not?' she add,

with a momentary glance at the card.  'you wish to see I?



Lavendale come a little far into the room and bow.  at a glance

from her mistress, the maid softly withdraw, close the door.  in his

severely simple evening clothe, Lavendale seem in that little room

to be tall even than his six foot two.  Félanie, who have rise to her

foot, feel herself suddenly dominate.



'Madame,' Lavendale say, 'I have venture to present myself in order

to renew a very delightful acquaintance.'



she play the game bravely.



'but, monsieur,' she protest, 'I have not the pleasure of know

you.'



he sigh.



'it be, alas! then, your memory, madame, which be at fault.'



'or your?' she query softly.



he shake his head.



'those who have have the privilege of know the lady who call herself

now Madame Félanie, could make no mistake.'



'yet it seem,' she persist, acknowledge his courtesy with a smile,

'that that be what have happen.  you be gallant, monsieur, but there

be so many of we upon the stage who resemble one another.'



he shake his head with a self-confidence which she hate.



'there be no man in this world,' he declare, 'who could fail to

recognize Adèle Goetz, even under the guise of Madame Félanie.  may I

congratulate you upon your great success?  your revue, they tell I,

will run for ever.'



'you be very kind,' she say, her knee begin to tremble a little,

'but indeed you be mistaken.  my name be Elaine Félanie.  it be my own

name.  I come from the Odéon.  I be so well-know in Paris.  this lady

of whom you speak perhaps resemble I.'



Lavendale do not for a moment reply.  his face have become a shade

graver, his grey eye hold her.



'be there, then, a reason, madame,' he ask, 'why Adèle Goetz

prefer to disappear and Madame Félanie to rise from her ashe?  be I

not one of those who could be trust?  my memory of Mademoiselle

Adèle be too delightful for I to bear anything but good-will towards

Madame Félanie.'



she stand for a moment quite still.  her brain be work quickly.

after all, the man be an American.  she look at he a little

doubtfully.  he smile--and she yield.  she give he both her hand.



'Monsieur Ambrose,' she say, 'it can go on no long.  I think

myself an actress but you have conquer.  you be my friend?'



'your devoted friend,' he assure she.



'you can imagine, then, why here in England it be Elaine Félanie alone

who exist?'



'Adèle Goetz, if I remember rightly,' he reply, 'be of german birth.'



she glance almost nervously around she.  he go on without pause.



'so far as that simple fact be concern,' he continue, 'you will

not--you need have no fear of my discretion.'



she give he her hand again and this time there be more of invitation

in her gesture.



'you be always kind to I,' she murmur.  'we shall see something of

one another now, be it not so?'



he shake his head.



'alas! no, madame,' he sigh.  'I be engaged to be marry.'



'and mademoiselle be jealous?' she inquire, with a little pout.



'there be no woman in the world,' he tell she, 'who would not be

jealous of Madame Félanie.'



she laugh at he with something of her old gaiety, throw herself back

in her chair and pass he the cigarette.



'we have a few minute long, at least,' she plead, 'before we make

our pathetic farewell.  you have not lose the gift of say pleasant

thing, Ambrose.'



'nor you, Adèle, the art of inspire they,' he reply.



'oh, là, là!' she exclaim lightly.  'tell I of your life here in

London?  tell I why you come to renew our acquaintance if it be to be

only a matter of this one visit?'



he have refuse her offer of a chair and the cigarette, still unlit, be

between his finger.



'yes, I will tell you that,' he say.  'you read, without a doubt, of

the sinking of the _marabic_?'



she shrug her shoulder.



'who have talk of anything else in London these few day?'



'I be amongst the save,' he continue, 'I and the young lady to whom

I be engaged to be marry.  we be in the last boat that leave the

ship and lose everything except the clothe we stand up in.  that

circumstance have, to a certain extent, change my outlook upon this

struggle.'



there be the slight of frown upon her velvet brow.  she wait.

he have the air of one, however, who have conclude all he have to say.

he turn towards the door.  she stop he with an imperative gesture.



'you have not give I the promise I desire--I demand?' she cry.

'Monsieur Ambrose, you will not leave I like this?'



'that promise,' he say gravely, 'be your--conditionally.'



his departure be a little abrupt and her gesture to recall he too

late.  she sit for a moment thinking, a curious shadow upon her face.

then she touch the bell.



'ask Monsieur Anders to spare I a moment,' she direct she maid.



there be a brief interval, then the sound of a cheerful whistling

outside.  the door be open and Monsieur Anders himself appear.  he

be a small man with a strangely-line face, a mouth whose humour

triumph even over his plastic make-up.  he be attire with great

magnificence in the costume of a beau of the last century.  his finger

glitter with ring, lace cuff fall over his wrist and a little waft

of peculiar perfume enter with he.  it be not for nothing that for

many year he have be consider upon the french stage the embodiment

of a certain type of elegance.



'you have have a visitor, _chérie_?' he remark.



'I have,' she reply.  'shut the door.'



he obey at once.  from outside come the voice of the stage carpenter,

the occasional rumbling of scenery, the music of the orchestra, the

murmur now and then of applause.  the curtain be up upon a fresh scene

in the revue.



'mysterious?' ander murmur.



suddenly, even as the word pass his lip, apprehension seem to

seize he.  he remain for a moment dumb and motionless.  then he,

too, glance around before he lean towards she.



'it be trouble?'



'perhaps not,' she answer.  'one cannot tell.  a young American have

be to see I.  he be one of the few who would remember.  we be

friend in Paris nine year ago.  he be a boy then, but,

notwithstanding everything, he recognize I.'



'an american,' ander mutter.  'well that than an Englishman!

well?'



'he be serve his apprenticeship in the American Diplomatic Service

in those day,' she go on.  'what he be do now I do not know,

except that he and the girl whom he be engage to marry, be amongst

survivor from the _marabic_.  he go out of his way to pay I a visit

here, just to tell I that he recognize I, and he make it plain that

although he be not an Englishman, he be in sympathy with they.'



'do he threaten?' ander ask quickly.



'no,' she reply, 'and yet he terrify I.  he promise

silence--conditionally.'



'Conditionally?  how?'



'he leave that for I to understand.  I be still puzzle.  he do not

want to see I any more--he take pain to tell I that he be engage

to be marry.  yet underneath his manner I seem to discover a

threat.'



ander stand perfectly still for a moment.  underneath all the paint

and make-up of his face, he be suddenly haggard.



'be it worth it, Henri?' she falter.  'why not America at once, and

safety?  we could get a great engagement there.'



he stand bite his nail, agitated.



'there be this last affair to be carry through,' he remind she.

'and the money--think of it!  how can one live without money!'



'our salary,' she murmur.



'Pooh!  what man with my taste could live on any salary?'



'be it worth while to trifle with life and death?' she ask he

bluntly.  'it be a warning, this, Henri.'



the call-boy's voice be suddenly hear.



'Monsieur Anders!  Monsieur Anders!'



the Frenchman turn mechanically towards the door.



'you have destroy my nerve,' he mutter.  'you have perhaps ruin

my performance.  afterwards we will see.' ...





it be 'French Night' at Luigi's Restaurant, a gala night even in those

strenuous war day.  every table in the place be take, and other have

be wheel in.  the waiter make their way about with difficulty.

Bohemia and the sycophantic scion of fashion sit arm in arm.  the

grimmer duty of patriotism be for a moment forget.  its other

claim meet with ample recognition.  Félanie sing the 'Marseillaise'

twice amidst a scene of wild applause.  a great french actress from the

legitimate stage have recite a patriotic ode.  the flag on the table

have be sell for absurd sum by a sympathetic duke who should clearly

have be an auctioneer.  a hundred message of sympathy, of love, of

faith, be send across the wineglass to the country whom it be

design to honour.  back in their corner, Lavendale and Suzanne look

on curiously.  Once Lavendale drink a little toast with his companion.



'this,' he murmur, 'be to our full alliance.'



she drink with he, although she seem a little puzzle.



'listen, dear,' he go on, 'there be just one little thing I'd like to

say to you to-night.  you and I have help one another at time, but

there have always be a certain reserve.  I tell you month ago that I

be for America above all thing, and America only.  to-day I feel

differently.  I have be a witness--you and I together--of foul and

brutal murder.  I have see woman drown, have hear their shriek.

America may keep the peace with Germany.  it may be in the interest of

the high diplomacy that she should.  as for I, I be at war with

Germany.  I be your ally.'



her finger rest upon his.



'then there be some good,' she whisper, 'which have come out of that

great and abominable evil.'



'a very small good,' he say, 'but it may count.  tell I, do you know

who that fair, almost sandy young man be, sit at the table with

Félanie and her friend?'



'of course,' she answer.  'that be Lenwade, the great fly man.'



she drop her voice suddenly.  the young man have rise from his

chair, and, in the act of pass down the room to speak to some

acquaintance, pause before their table.  he bow to Suzanne and hold

out his hand to Lavendale.  they be old acquaintance and speak for

some time on indifferent subject.



'what have you be do with yourself lately?' Lavendale inquire.



'not much fly,' the other confess.  'I have be down give

lesson and break in a lot of the youngster, but I cann't stick it

myself as I use to.  play the devil with your nerve.'



'Rubbish!' Lavendale laugh.  'you haven't a nerve in your body.'



'haven't I?' the other reply.  'I remember the time when I could say

that.  I'd give anything to be at the front now if I feel equal to it,

or if my doctor would let I.'



Lavendale smile, and glance around to be sure that his neighbour

be not listen.



'what be you do at Ypres the week before last, then?' he ask,

drop his voice a little.



Lenwade for a moment be silent, then he shrug his shoulder.



'you must have mistake I for some one else,' he declare.

'good-night!'



he take his leave a little abruptly.  Lavendale watch he disappear.

then he glance towards his companion.  his face have become graver.



'let I put a case to you, my fellow conspirator,' he beg.



'I will put one to you instead,' she reply.  'I know for a fact that

Philip Lenwade have be in France for two month, fly every day,

engage upon some special task.  he deny it to we--quite properly,

perhaps--but should he come to place like this, should he drink

champagne so that he be compel to hold the table while he stand?

it be true that all the world know of his infatuation for Félanie.

she be safe, perhaps--a Frenchwoman and a patriot--yet there be

something about it which I do not like.  she and Lenwade have be

whisper together half the evening, and more than once I have see

Lenwade shake his head and push she away.'



'Supposing Félanie,' he whisper, 'be not a Frenchwoman at all?'



Suzanne say nothing.  she wait, watch her companion with

wide-open eye.  Lavendale look down upon the tablecloth.



'from you,' he continue simply, 'I have no secret.  nine year ago I

know Félanie in Paris.  she go then by the name of Adèle Goetz.  she

be a German.'



'go on.'



'I watch she from the box to-night.  at first I be oppress, as I

have be before, by some vague sense of familiarity in her gesture.

suddenly--I think it be the way she shrug her shoulder, one high

than the other--anyhow, something bring it all back to I.  that be

why I leave you, Suzanne.  I go to her room.  her flaxen hair have

become blue-black, she have alter in many way but I discover that I

be right.'



'she be a German, pose as a Frenchwoman, in London to-day?' Suzanne

exclaim.  'why do she run this risk?'



'that be what I have ask myself,' he whisper, 'that and another

question--what be her interest in Lenwade?  Hush!  we be talk too

earnestly.  that fellow Anders--they say he be really her

husband--watch we.  here come Luigi.  talk to he for a moment.'



the manager pause at their table and receive their compliment on the

success of the evening.  when he pass on, Félanie have rise as though

to go, and Lenwade be arrange her cloak around her shoulder.

ander be still talk to some other member of the company, and

friend seat at the great round table in front of the orchestra.

Félanie and Lenwade be half-way down the room before the other begin

to follow.  Lavendale rise quickly to his foot.



'listen,' he say, 'I be go upstairs and shall come down again just

far enough, in case I can hear anything.  you go through alone and wait

for I on the divan.  tell I if those two go away together, and if so,

what be their destination.'



they separate at once.  a few minute later Lavendale descend from

the balcony and stand just out of sight upon the stair which lead into

the entrance hall.  the little place be full of the hubbub of cheerful

laughter.  on one side, however, Félanie and Lenwade be talk

earnestly.  Félanie have turn suddenly round to Anders, who have just

arrive.



'Mr. Lenwade be go to drive I home,' she announce.  'Au revoir,

all you good people!'



there be much handshake.



'Vive la France, madame,' a young Englishman exclaim fervently, as he

bent over Félanie's finger, 'and may you, too, live for ever!'



'if one would paint France, madame,' a painter murmur, 'I would

choose you for the emblematic figure.'



there be more compliment, another little burst of patriotic fervour.

some one even strike up a few bar of the 'Marseillaise' as Félanie and

her escort disappear.  Lavendale descend the last few stair and

elbow his way good-humouredly through the group.  he take Suzanne by

the arm.



'well?' he whisper, as he lead she towards the doorway.



'I be not sure,' she answer under her breath, 'but I think they go

to his room--number 25 Half Moon Street.'



Lavendale's car be a few minute delay.  he give the man the address

almost in a whisper.  behind, push his way out on to the pavement,

be Anders.  he watch Lavendale drive off with a slightly disturbed

air.



'what be you go to do?' Suzanne ask.



'make a fool of myself, very likely,' Lavendale reply.  'I be just

work out a theory, that's all.  she be go back to his room.

ander remain behind, content, and all the world know that Anders,

whether he be her husband or not, be in love with she and furiously

jealous.  you see, there must be a reason for her little expedition.

she be hope to fetch something.'



'where be we go?'



'to his room,' Lavendale explain.  'oh! don't look startled, dear.

I shall have a very good explanation to offer to Lenwade, even if I

break in upon the most ordinary amour.'



they be in Half Moon Street within a few minute.  just as

Lavendale's car slacken speed, Félanie issue from the door of number

25, and, look neither to the right nor to the left, spring into a

waiting taxicab and drive off.  Lavendale leap out on to the pavement.



'follow she, Suzanne,' he direct.  'I hope to God she's go

straight home!  if not, you must find out where she do go.  I'll come

in a taxi.  I must see Lenwade first.'



he whisper a direction to the chauffeur, pass through the door of

number 25, rang for an automatic lift and ascend to the second

storey.  lean over the banister, as the lift stop, be Lenwade.

he gaze at his visitor in amazement.



'what the mischief be you do here, old fellow?' he ask thickly.



'whom be you look for?' Lavendale retort.



'Madame Félanie,' the other confess.  'she have go down to fetch her

vanity case from the cab.  cann't think why she don't come back.'



Lavendale push he suddenly back into his room and close the door.



'you idiot!' he thunder.  'she ben't come back!  now pull yourself

together, do you hear?  listen to I.  you're half drunk, but I be

go to tell you something that ought to sober you.  that woman

Félanie be a bear German, and a spy.  what have you give she?'



even through the bluster of his stormy denial, Lenwade be obviously

shake.



'what bally rot!' he exclaim.  'she's a Frenchwoman to her

finger-tip.  they all love she.  don't you hear she

sing--Marseillaise?  Frenchwoman to her finger----'



'shut up!' Lavendale interrupt fiercely.  'I tell you I know her nine

year ago under another name.  she be a German, and it's my belief

she's a spy, she and Anders.  what have they work on you?  out with

it, man!'



Lenwade sway on his foot.  he look back across his shoulder to a

roll-top writing desk which stand open.  then he snatch up a tumbler

from the table by his side, fill it with soda-water and drink it off.



'Lavendale, you're not in earnest!'



'in God's own earnest, man!  Quick, if you want to repair the mischief

you've do, tell I what you give she?'



'I've lend she my plan,' Lenwade falter.  'I've be two month

make they, up above the cloud.  I'm the only real draughtsman

amongst those who can keep high enough--plan of the german

fortification and the railway behind, from the coast beyond where our

line touch the French.  I say, Lavendale----!'



there be no Lavendale.  he spring down the stair three at a time, out

into the street and at a double into Piccadilly, where he spring into a

pass taxicab.



'Milan!  look sharp!' he order.



the man drive swiftly through the half-empty street.  with a little

gasp of relief Lavendale recognize his own car wait in the

courtyard.  without a pause, however, he push open the swing door of

the Court and lean over the counter towards the night porter.



'what be Madame Félanie's number?' he ask.



'sixty-four, sir,' the man reply, glance dubiously at Lavendale.

'Monsieur Anders be up there now, however.'



Lavendale step into the lift, ascend to the third floor, hurry

down the dimly-light corridor and pause outside the door of number

sixty-four.  he listen for a moment.  inside he could hear voice.

then he press the bell.  there be a moment's hesitation, then

ander' voice speak in French.



'Lenwade, perhaps.'



he hear Félanie's scornful little laugh, the flutter of her garment

as she cross the room.  the door be suddenly open and she stand

there, look out at he.  she gaze at this unexpected visitor and

the colour slowly fade from her cheek and the light from her eye.

Lavendale make his way firmly across the threshold and close the door.

Félanie catch at her throat.



'what do you want here, sir?' ander demand.



Lavendale push they both back into the sitting-room.  there be an

ugly look in the man's face, but Félanie's courage seem to have

desert she.  she clutch at the air for a moment and sink into an

easy-chair, hide her face amongst the cushion.  Lavendale's hand

fall firmly upon the loose sheet of paper strew over the table.



'these be what I have come for,' he announce, collect they and

thrust they into his pocket.  'I presume you have have no time to

make a copy?'



he glance searchingly around the apartment.  it be obvious that

nothing of the sort have be attempt.  ander steal slowly back

towards the writing-table, his hand be upon the knob of one of the

drawer, but Lavendale suddenly grip he by the coat collar and

swing he almost off his foot.



'listen,' he say coldly, 'I know nothing of you, Anders, except that

it be my belief that you be one of the vermin of the war, a spy

sell his own country.  the woman there be once my friend.  for that

reason, if you leave England on Saturday for America, this matter be

finish.  if either of you remain in London, or make any attempt to

cross to Holland, France or any other country, between now and then,

something very ugly will happen.  you understand?'



Anders' courage have fail he pitifully.  Félanie, on the contrary,

have recover herself.



'I have be a fool, perhaps,' she confess.  'you be just one of

the few chance against I.  very well, we go to America on Saturday.'



'but our contract?' ander falter.  'the revue?  Elaine's success?

they have double our salary.  London be at her foot.'



'after Saturday,' Lavendale remind he calmly, 'the good that can

happen to you, Anders, be a bandaged forehead and twelve bullet, in

the courtyard of the Tower.  I will not offend your taste by

suggesting----'



Félanie stamp her foot and turn her shoulder contemptuously upon

Anders.



'it be finish, Monsieur Lavendale,' she pronounce.  'if there be

any bribe in the world I could offer you----'



it be her one rather faint-hearted effort and he laugh at the

seduction in her eye.



'you will be watch from this moment until the steamer leave

Liverpool,' he conclude, leave the room and close the door behind

he....



in the hall he meet Lenwade, wait for the lift, incoherent still but

sober.  Lavendale draw he out into the courtyard, where Suzanne be

still seat in the car.



'Lenwade,' he announce, 'I have your plan.  they be safe with I.  I

shall keep they until to-morrow morning.  you can come to I at 17

Sackville Street at ten o'clock.  until then they will be safe.'



'thank God!' the other murmur.  'how do you manage it?'



Lavendale shake he off a little contemptuously and take his place by

Suzanne's side.



'they leave on Saturday for Liverpool,' he tell she.  'I hand the care

of they, from now until then, over to your branch.'



she press his hand and draw a little close to he.



'my dear ally!' she murmur.









CHAPTER X



the sentence of the court



Lavendale be closet with a personage, and the interview to which he

find himself commit come as something of a shock to he.  the

Personage be not in the habit of waste his word, and he speak

succinctly and to the point.



'to sum up, Mr. Lavendale,' he conclude, 'we have receive direct and

categorical complaint concern you, forward to we through the

german Ambassador in Washington.  it be state that whilst enjoy the

shelter and privilege of your association with the Embassy here, you

have render direct aid to a Branch of the French Secret Service in

this country, and that you be yourself responsible for the

interception of an important communication from Berlin.'



'that's Leonard Johnson,' Lavendale mutter.



'the case of Leonard Johnson have, I believe, be cite,' the Personage

admit, 'but your association with a certain member of the French

Secret Service have lead you, I be inform, into further enterprise not

entirely in accordance with your position as an american official.'



'be I to understand that you wish I to resign, sir?' Lavendale ask.



'nothing,' the personage reply cheerfully, 'be further from my

intention.  I wish you to reform.  remember you be an American,

that's all.  now go and pay we a visit on the other side.  I be come

in to do a little hand-shake myself presently.'



Lavendale put behind he what he feel might be one of the crisis of his

life, and make his way to the ambassadorial reception room.  he pay

his respect to his Chief's wife and family and talk for a while to

one of the junior secretary.  a clean-shaven man, tall and slim, with

gold spectacle and smooth hair, come up to they presently with a smile.



'I hope you haven't quite forget I, Mr. Lavendale,' he say.  'I'm

Anthony Silburn.  four year before your time, but we've meet once or

twice in New York.'



'of course,' Lavendale assent.  'as a matter of fact, we be

connection, ben't we?  you marry my cousin, Lydia Green.'



they sit in a corner and talk for some time of common acquaintance.

Mr. Anthony Silburn, besides have the advantage of a frank and

engage manner and a distinct sense of humour, be, as Lavendale very

well know, one of the wealthy and most enlighten of american

millionaire.



'I tell you what it be, young fellow,' Mr. Silburn declare, as they

part, 'you'll have to come down and spend a week-end with we, any

time you like.  I've get a real old country house in Norfolk--lease it

before the war break out--Hookam Court, near Wells.  bring your gun

down.  well, I'm off now to catch the five o'clock train home.'



he depart, with a little farewell nod.  Lavendale look after he

thoughtfully.



'one of the most successful man in America,' somebody by his side

remark.  'I wonder what he think about the war.  he be educate in

Germany--I be not sure that he ben't bear there.'



Lavendale make his adieux a little later and walk thoughtfully

towards the Milan Court.  he send his name up, but there be no reply

from Suzanne's room.



'Miss de Freyne go out on Monday night,' the hall-porter tell he.

'she be motor, I think, but she have very little luggage.  she

haven't be back since.  we've have a great many telephone message for

she.'



the circumstance be not in itself unusual, but Lavendale be conscious

of a queer little feeling of uneasiness.  Suzanne never leave town

without let he know and she have be engage to dine with he that

night.



'I think I'll go up and speak to her maid,' he say.



the man point towards the lift.



'there she be, sir, just come in.'



Lavendale cross the hall and touch the woman on the shoulder.  she

be a dark-visage, melancholy-look person of middle age, with an

extraordinary gift for taciturnity.



'do you know where your mistress be, Anne?' he ask.



the woman appear to recognize he with some relief.  she evade a

direct reply, however.



'would you be so kind as to come upstairs, sir?' she invite.



Lavendale follow she to Suzanne's suite.  she stand on one side for

he to enter and close the door carefully.



'Monsieur,' she begin, 'my mistress once tell I that if there be

trouble I be to come to you.'



'quite right,' Lavendale assent quickly.  'what be it?'



'Mademoiselle leave I at six o'clock on Monday night,' the maid

proceed.  'I know nothing as to her destination except that her

journey be decide upon quite suddenly and that she have a motor ride

of over a hundred mile.  she expect to be back the next day.  if

not, she promise to send I some instruction.  since then I have

hear nothing of she.'



Lavendale reflect for a moment.



'how much be you in your mistress' confidence?' he inquire.



'she have trust I often with her life,' be the quiet reply.



'you understand her real position?'



'but naturally.'



'then do you know,' Lavendale go on, 'if there be any headquarters of

the French Secret Service in this country--any one from whom we could

get any idea as to her mission?'



the woman shake her head.



'there be other work often with Mademoiselle,' she say.  'I know

no name--only this.  in case of the very deep anxiety, but only in

extreme, I have a telephone number here which I could ring up.'



she open her purse and draw out a slip of paper.



'it be, I believe, a private number,' she continue, 'and not in the

book.  I make up my mind that if Mademoiselle have not return this

afternoon, I would ring up.'



'let we do so at once,' Lavendale suggest.



'if monsieur would be so kind,' she beg, point to the instrument.

'my English be not good, and I do not know with whom I should speak.'



'whom be I to ask for?' Lavendale inquire.



'no name be to be mention,' the woman reply, 'and the number can

only be ring up between five and seven.  it be six o'clock now,' she

add.



Lavendale take off the receiver and ask for the number.  there be a

moment's pause.  then a remarkably clear voice answer he.



'well?'



'it be a friend of Mademoiselle de Freyne who speak,' Lavendale say.



'that be well,' the voice reply.  'continue.'



'Miss de Freyne leave her room at the Milan Court last Monday night, on

secret business.  she promise to communicate with she maid the next

day.  she have not do so.  she leave in a motor-car and with very

little luggage.  she make the remark that she have a ride of over a

hundred mile.'



'that be all you know, Mr. Lavendale?'



Lavendale start a little at the sound of his own name.



'it be all,' he assent.



'kindly go and repeat what you have tell I to Major Elwell, room 17,

number 33, Whitehall.'



Lavendale replace the receiver and turn to Anne.



'I be instruct,' he say, 'to apply to a man whom I know to be in the

English Secret Service.'



'it would be well,' the maid advise, 'if monsieur apply there at

once.'



Lavendale walk briskly out of the Milan by the back exit, through the

Gardens, along the Embankment and into Whitehall.  he find number 33 a

long, narrow, private house take over by the Government.  number 17

consist of a small office in which two man be busy writing, and an

inner room.  Lavendale make his inquiry and be tell that Major Elwell

would be back in an hour.  he scribble a note, make an appointment,

and walk back to his own room.  he let himself in, pause to speak

for a moment with his servant, who be lay out his clothe, and

turn towards the sitting-room.  as he open the door the telephone

bell begin to ring insistently.  he cross the room, take up the

receiver, and tap the instrument.



'what be it?' he ask.  'Hullo?  Hullo?'



somewhere in the distance he hear a voice say faintly--'Trunk

call'--and for a moment he be patient.  then he give a little start.

a familiar voice, yet unfamiliar, shake with something like fear,

tremulous, hysterical, terrified, murmur his name.  his heart leap

with quick sympathy, his finger shake.



'Ambrose!  Ambrose!  be that you?  speak quickly!'



'I be here, Suzanne,' he cry.  'where be you?'



suddenly he seem to hear turmoil and confusion, a man's voice, a

woman's shriek.



'at Hook----'



then there be silence.  the connection have be break.  Lavendale

ring up furiously.  at last he get the exchange.  the young man who

answer his inquiry could tell he nothing.  he ring through to the

inquiry office with little well result.  they would make inquiry

and let he know from whence the call come.  they believe that it be

from a call office.  he could gain no further information.  he set down

the instrument at last in despair and walk up and down the room.  she

be in trouble, danger.  'Hook--?' 'Hook--?'  what be there familiar

to he in the commencement of that word?  he repeat it feverishly.

then he remember--Hookam Court--Anthony Silburn, whom he have meet that

afternoon at the Embassy.  it be hard to discover any connection,

however.  he drive back to the Milan Court and find Anne.



'be there any news, monsieur?' she ask anxiously.



'none at present,' Lavendale reply.  'I cannot see Major Elwell for

another half-hour.  tell I, have you ever hear your mistress mention

any place of which the first syllable be "Hook"?'



'"ook,"' Anne repeat dubiously.  'no, monsieur!'



'Hookam Court,' Lavendale go on, 'Anthony Silburn--Norfolk--none of

that be familiar?'



'but no, monsieur!'



he keep the secret of the telephone message to himself and make his way

round once more to Whitehall.  Major Elwell be seat in his office

and receive he at once.  there be nothing unusual about the place

except a large array of telephone.  Lavendale tell his story quickly.

the Major listen without comment.



'well?' Lavendale ask eagerly, when he have finish.



Major Elwell be occupy in draw small diagram with his pencil on

the edge of the blotting-paper.



'we must see what can be do,' he remark at last.  'Hook'--that be

absolutely all you hear?'



'absolutely,' Lavendale assure he.



'and you have a friend who live at Hookam Court in Norfolk--Mr.

Anthony Silburn?' he say meditatively.  'a very remarkable man,

Silburn--likely to be President some day, they tell I.'



'who care about that!' Lavendale exclaim, a little curtly.  'what

can we do, Major Elwell?  I dare say you know as much as I do, and

more.  Miss de Freyne have be very successful during the last few

month, and there be no doubt they'd give anything they could to get

hold of she on the other side.  but in England--surely there cann't be

any organization over here strong enough for actual mischief!'



'Scarcely,' Major Elwell agree.  'Scarcely.  'h--double o--K,' he go

on meditatively.  'you see, there be about fifty place in the United

Kingdom begin like that.'



Lavendale feel his courage slip away.  there be something

curiously unimpressive in the carefully-dress, imperturbable

Englishman, who be occupy now in polish his eyeglass.



'ben't there anything we can be do instead of sit here talk?'

he ask impatiently.



'always a mistake,' Major Elwell declare, 'to do thing in a hurry.

have a cigarette,' he go on, offer his case.  'I think I'll stroll

out and talk with a friend over this little matter.'



'ben't there a thing I can do?' Lavendale persist.



'well,' Major Elwell say thoughtfully, 'you speak of an invitation to

visit your friend Mr. Anthony Silburn at Hookam Court.  why not motor

down there to-morrow?  it's one of the place in the country that your

call might have come from, at any rate.'



a derisive reply quiver upon Lavendale's lip.  then, for some reason

or other, he change his mind and remain silent.  Major Elwell,

without any appearance of hurry he, be hold the door open.



'all right,' Lavendale agree, 'I'll motor down there to-morrow.'



      *      *      *      *      *



Lavendale be conscious of a queer sensation of unreality as late on

the follow afternoon he follow the butler across the white-flag

entrance hall of Hookam Court.  he feel as though he be an unwilling

actor in a play of which the setting be all too perfect.  the little

party of guest, still in shoot clothe and lounge before the

great wood fire, bring into their surrounding a vivid note of

flamboyant artificiality.  the high wall, with their

ecclesiastically-curve fresco, the row of family portrait, the

armour stand in the recess, even the little local touch afford

by the game-keeper in brown whipcord and gaiter, stand wait in a

distant corner, seem to he like part of some cinema production in

which the man and woman be super and the set tinsel.



his host's greeting be all that it should have be.  he advance

across the hall with outstretched hand, quietly but sincerely cordial.



'good man, Lavendale!' he exclaim.  'I be delighted to get your

telegram.'



'very nice of you,' Lavendale murmur.  'I haven't any idea of be at

a loose end so soon when you be kind enough to ask I.'



'it couldn't have happen more fortunately,' Mr. Anthony Silburn

assure he.  'I've another man come down to-night, but I've room for

two more gun.  now let I introduce you to those of your fellow-guest

whom you don't know.  Mr. Lavendale--Lady Marsham, Mr. Kindersley, Mr.

Barracombe, Sir Julius Marsham, Mr. Henry D. Steinletter.'



Lavendale bow, individually to the woman and collectively to the man.

Lady Marsham, a stout, dark-haired lady with a heavy jaw, make room for

he by her side.



'it be quite a treat, Mr. Lavendale,' she declare, 'to see a young

man.  one feel that he must be either an american or a hopeless

invalid.  you be an American, ben't you?'



Lavendale admit the fact and rise to welcome his hostess, who be

come down the stair.  she suddenly recognize Lavendale and stop

short.  for the first time he be conscious of something which free

he from that sense of be part of a carefully concert picture.

there be something absolutely human, entirely spontaneous in his

cousin's expression as she recognize he.  her finger grip the oak

banister, her lip be part, her eye be fill with something

which be scarcely a welcoming light.  it all pass in a moment and

she come into the picture naturally and easily.



'my dear Ambrose, how delightful to see you again!  do Tony know?



Lavendale advance to meet she and take her hand.



'he ask I down for a few day only yesterday, when I meet he in

town, and I wire to say that I be come to-day.  I be afraid I

don't give he a chance to turn I down, but I mean to say, although

he haven't give I an opportunity yet, that if it's at all inconvenient

I could go on to Norwich and look up some friend near there.



for a single moment she hesitate.  her little laugh be not altogether

natural.  again Lavendale have a queer fancy that there be a leaven of

insincerity in her welcome--that if it have be possible she would even

have send he away.



'don't be foolish, Ambrose.  of course we be delighted.  I see you

people have have tea,' she go on.  'I really couldn't resist a bath

and tea-gown.'



'and I be much too lazy,' Lady Marsham yawn, light a cigarette.

'I shall go up and change early for dinner.'



Mr. Silburn's voice be hear from the other end of the hall.  he be

dismiss the game-keeper with a few parting instruction.



'I'll have another covering stand at the long wood, Reynolds,' he be

say.  'you can put it on the extreme left, near the old oak.  I'll

take that myself, and Mr. Lavendale will shoot from number three.

you've get your gun, Lavendale?' he add, stroll up to they.



'they be in the car,' Lavendale reply, 'but I warn you that I

haven't shoot for two year.'



'I don't think my pheasant will bother you any,' Mr. Silburn promise

he.  'Barracombe here find they on the slow side.  we have a very good

day to-day--over a thousand head altogether.  sure you willn't have some

tea or a whisky-and-soda?'



'nothing, thank.'



'then I'll show you your room,' his host continue, 'if you'll come

this way.'



Lydia Silburn, who have be stand a little irresolutely on the other

side of the round tea-table, suddenly turn towards her husband.



'why don't you tell I, Tony, that Ambrose be come?' she inquire.



'I mean to,' her husband admit.  'as it happen, however, I haven't

see much of you to-day, have I?  come along, young fellow.  do you

bring a servant, by-the-by?  no?  well, I've quite a smart second boy

who can look after you.  we dine at eight.  and, Lavendale, just one

word,' he conclude, as he glance around the spacious room into which

he have usher his guest, 'we have a sort of unwritten rule to which

every one subscribe here.  it save so much unpleasant argument on a

subject where our opinion be a little divided.  we don't mention the

war until half-past ten.'



'very sound,' Lavendale remark, 'but why half-past ten?'



'after dinner,' Mr. Silburn promise, 'I will explain that to you.  we

have a little conversazione sometimes--but just wait.' ...



again, an hour or so later, when Lavendale stand once more in the hall

talk to one or two of the man, whilst a footman be pass round

cock-tail upon a tray, he felt oppress by that curious sense of

unreality.  he take himself severely to task for it.  he tell himself

that it must lie simply in the innate incongruity of this occupation of

a ducal home by an american millionaire.  in every other respect the

man and woman be obviously fitting figure.  one or two of they be

even know to he by reputation.  the whole atmosphere of their

conversation be natural and spontaneous.   and then, as he turn

resolutely to continue a discussion about wild pheasant with

Barracombe--Barracombe, whom he know well to be a great scientific

traveller, a man of distinction--it be then that the climax come, the

dramatic note which alone be need to convince he of the

spuriousness of his surrounding.  he have turn his head quite

naturally towards the broad, western corridor on hear the soft

rustling of a woman's skirt--and he talk no more of wild pheasant!

it be Suzanne, in a black evening gown and carry a handful of pink

rose in her hand, who be come slowly across the hall.



'Suzanne!  Miss de Freyne!' he exclaim, take a quick step forward.



he be conscious of many thing in those few second, conscious of his

host's strenuous regard, of Suzanne's unnatural pallor, of the warning

in her eye.  his rush of joy at see she, however, be

all-conquering.  he take her hand in his and hold they tightly.



'and to think that no one tell I you be here!' he exclaim.



there be a moment's strained silence.  then a cold wave of doubt, a

premonition of evil, suddenly chill he.  in the background he have

catch a glimpse of a peculiar smile upon his host's lip, and again

there be the warning in Suzanne's eye.



'I have be down in the neighbourhood for several day,' she tell he.

'it be rather a coincidence, be it not?'



Anthony Silburn, who have remain all the time within earshot, stroll

over towards they.



'so you young people have discover one another,' he remark.  'the

gong at last!' he add, with a little burst of enthusiasm.

'Lavendale, as it be your first evening, will you take Lydia in?  Miss

de Freyne, I be go to give myself the happiness to-night.'



he hold out his arm and lead Suzanne away.  Lavendale loiter behind

with his cousin.



'Lydia,' he whisper, as they pass into the great dining-room, 'how

long have Miss de Freyne be here?'



'in this house since the day before yesterday,' she answer.  'she be

stay before at the Hookam Arms, down in the village.'



'Say, be there anything wrong about this place?' he ask.  'I don't

know what it be, but I feel as though I'd come into some sort of a

theatrical performance.  I suppose you be all alive, ben't you?  that

really be Barracombe, the traveller, and old steinletter?'



his tone have be one of half banter, but her reply make he suddenly

serious.



'I don't know, Ambrose,' she confess nervously.  'sometimes I feel

like that myself.  don't talk too loudly.'



Lavendale become a watcher through the progress of the wonderfully

serve meal.  the servant, in a way, be all of the usual type,

obviously well-train and attentive.  the dining-room at Hookam have

be build out by a favourite of one of the Georges almost in the form

of a pagoda, and under the high, domed roof, listen to the somewhat

stereotyped conversation of those strangely-assorted guest, Lavendale

become slowly conscious of a new sensation, the sensation of

restriction.  it be hard to believe that outside lie the park; that in

the morning he would be wander about, free to come and go as he

please; that in the garage be his own car, and a couple of mile away

across the park, the road to London.  he try to talk lightly to Lydia

of their relative and friend in America, but he find she distraite

and depressed.  Dinner be no soon over, however, than he make a bold

attempt to dissipate some of his presentiment.



'can I use the telephone, Silburn?' he ask.



'with pleasure, my dear boy,' be the unhesitate reply.  'you'll find

an instrument this way.'



they be all cross the hall.  the man and the woman be to smoke

and take their coffee together.  Silburn lead his young guest into a

small waiting-room, comfortably furnish.  on a table in the middle of

the apartment be a telephone instrument and a book of subscriber.

Lavendale take up the receiver.



'can you get through to London?' he ask.



'sorry, sir, the line be engage,' the operator regret.



'will it be free presently?'



'I'll ring up as soon as we can get through.  what number?'



Lavendale give the number of his own room and rejoin the little

group in the hall.  he find Barracombe on one side of Suzanne and his

host on the other, but he draw a chair as near to she as he could.



'get through all right?' Silburn inquire.



'I don't get through anywhere,' Lavendale reply.  'the line be

engage.'



'we've a lot of soldier down here,' Mr. Silburn explain.  'they be

always commandeer the line for military purpose.'



'you seem to get plenty of message,' Lavendale remark, as a servant

for the third or fourth time bring a slip of fold paper to his

master.



Silburn smile.



'I have a private line,' he announce.  'sorry I cann't ask you to use

it, but I have promise the military here that no one else save myself

shall communicate by mean of it.  be you a bridger, Lavendale?'



Lavendale excuse himself, but gain nothing, for Suzanne be almost

force into the game by her host.  he wander about the hall, glance

up at the picture.  then he go back to the telephone room.



'Line's still engage, sir,' be the laconic reply to his inquiry.



Lavendale stroll back.  he wander uneasily about the hall for a

time and then approach the great front door.



'think I'll have a look at the night,' he remark, with his hand upon

the bolt.



the servant who be stand by, intervene.



'I beg your pardon, sir,' he say, 'we be not allow to open the

front door after dusk.  the military have complain so much about the

light.'



'show I another way out from the back, then?' Lavendale persist.



'no one be allow to leave the house at all until morning,' the man

tell he.



Lavendale turn slowly round towards the bridge-table.



'Silburn,' he ask, 'be we prisoner?'



'my dear fellow,' his host reply, deal out a hand, 'it be not I

who be to blame, but the english military authority.  look how

closely-curtain we be everywhere.  you will find double blind in

every room in the house.  yet even that have not be enough to satisfy

they.  I have have to promise that no member of my household shall even

open a door after dark.  "defence of the Realm Act" they call it, I

think.'



Lavendale turn a little discontentedly away.  it be difficult to

protest far, but he be not in the least satisfied that Silburn's

explanation be a genuine one.  he talk for a few moment to several

of the other guest and then draw a low chair up close to Suzanne.  it

be evident to he, watch she closely, that she be play under

great tension.  More than ever he be convince that something be

wrong.  with an excuse about fetch some cigarette of a particular

brand, he make up to his room and search in his dressing-case.

within a few minute he find himself face to face with a very grim

reality.  the revolver which he carry always with he have be

remove! ...



Lavendale, with small hope of any success, call once more at the

telephone room before he rejoin the little party.  the reply be

almost brusque.



'line block.  no chance of get through to London to-night.'



'can I ring up Norwich?' Lavendale ask, with a sudden inspiration.



'line to Norwich engage,' be the reply.



'be there anywhere I can speak to?' Lavendale persist.  'be there any

number upon the exchange I can be connect with?'



there be no reply.  he ring again and tap the wire.  there be

still silence.  then he replace the receiver upon the instrument and

stand for a moment in the little room, think.  there be no doubt

but that he have simply follow Suzanne into a trap.  he rapidly

review in his memory the guest.  Lady Marsham, it be well know,

have be educate in Berlin and have german relative.  Barracombe wear

an order confer upon he by the Kaiser.  Steinletter belong to the

great german-american banking firm in the world.  Kindersley's

daughter have marry an austrian prince.  Suzanne have succeed, then,

in this last quest of her, a success which, although inadvertently, he

might be say to share.  they have in all probability discover the

headquarters of the great teutonic espionage system in England.  how

be it go to profit they?  his mind rapidly review the situation.

they be prisoner--of that he be certain--yet to what extent?  how

far be Silburn prepared to go?  it be, after all, rather an

opera-bouffe sort of trap.  if they be catch, there be still the

question of silence they.  then he think of that abstract

revolver, and a queer little wave of apprehension, not for himself but

for Suzanne, suddenly chill he.



he make his way back into the hall.  the rubber be just over and he

lean boldly over the chair in which Suzanne be seat.



'come and talk to I for a few minute,' he beg.



she hesitate.  Mr. Silburn, who be play idly with the card,

glance at the clock and back again.



'at half-past ten,' he announce, 'in ten minute, that be to say, we

all meet in the cloister room.  it be a queer custom, perhaps, but my

guest have be kind in conform to it.'



'Prayers?' Lavendale inquire.



'not a bad name for our few minute' serious diversion,' Mr. Silburn

remark dryly.



Lavendale lead Suzanne towards a couch at the further end of the hall.

he lay his hand upon hers and find it as cold as ice.



'Suzanne,' he say quietly, 'be we in a trap?'



'I believe we be,' she answer.  'it be entirely my fault.  I have

never be so foolish before in my life.  I have always have people

behind I who have know my whereabouts and who could come to the

rescue, if necessary.  this time I tell no one.  I be selfish.  I

want the whole credit.  but tell I of yourself--how you come here?'



'it be just the mere chance,' he reply.  'Silburn have ask I to

shoot here, and then you half tell I where you be, over the

telephone.  I think that the rest must have be instinct.  you haven't

tell I yet, though, how you find your way here?'



'I be down at the village,' she say.  'I follow Mr. Steinletter

here.  I have a special permit, a military pass.  I be suppose to be

relate to one of the officer quarter at the inn.  I make a few

inquiry about this place, which increase my suspicion.  then I meet

Mrs. Silburn outside the lodge gate.  she be with the Colonel in

command here and they stop to speak to the officer I be with.  she

be delightful and ask I to call.  I be only too glad to have a

chance of obtain the entrée to the house.  they make I send for my

clothe, to spend the night.  that be two day ago.  since then I have

try in vain to get away.'



'let I understand what you mean by try to get away?' he beg.

'surely you could ask for a car to take you to the station?'



'I have do so three time,' she reply, 'always with the same

result.  they assure I that every car in the garage have be

requisition by the Government.  I go to that dummy telephone--the

exchange be in the house, you know--and of course nothing happen.  if

I start out to walk, I be shadow by one of the man-servant, and, as

you know, it be two mile before one reach the road.'



'well, there ben't much they can do with we, dear,' Lavendale assure

she coolly.  'tell I now, have you make any actual discovery?'



'there be a private telegraph and telephone exchange here in the

place,' she say, 'and Mr. Silburn get message every few hour.

there be people always come and go, all people of the same class.

there be not the slight doubt that this be the place for which we

have search.  Ambrose, if only we could stretch out the net now, at

this moment, we could make a great haul.'



'instead of which,' he remark grimly, 'we seem to be in the mesh

ourselves!'



'tell I,' she beg, 'do any one know that you be come here?'



'I tell Elwell--Major Elwell,' Lavendale reply, with a suddenly

inspire flash of memory.  'I tell he why I be come here, too.'



she clutch at his arm.  then suddenly she look down.  'they be

watch we,' she whisper.  'Ambrose, that may save we yet if only he

come in time!'



'in time for what?' Lavendale answer cheerfully.  'I cann't look upon

this as very serious, dear.  why, Lydia Silburn be my own cousin.'



'she be our only hope,' Suzanne declare.  'as for the rest, I have

grow to suspect every one of they.'



'what do this half-past ten business mean?' he ask.



she shake her head.



'at half-past ten they all go into what they call the cloister room,'

she say.  'as yet I have not be invite there, but I have an idea

that to-night we be both to be present.  yes, here come Mr. Silburn.'



'now, you young people,' their host observe pleasantly, 'we be go

to let you into a few secret.  this way.'



they both rise.  the other be cross the hall towards the eastern

corridor.  Mr. Silburn draw Suzanne's arm through his.  as they walk

his face become more serious.  Lavendale have a wild idea, for a moment,

of snatch Suzanne away, open the front door by force and

clamour for freedom.  then he remember the two mile to the lodge

gate and shrug his shoulder.



'it's rather a queer apartment into which I be go to take you,' Mr.

Silburn explain, 'a crazy sort of place, really, but to we Americans

this sort of room, I must confess, appeal some.  allow I, Miss de

Freyne.'



he motion they both to precede he.  they find themselves in what

seem to be, from the bareness of the wall and the shape of the

window, a small chapel, build on different level.  the large part of

the room, which be below, be wrap in complete gloom.  the small

part be unfurnished save for a long table, around which be range a

number of chair.  one by one, the guest seat themselves.  Lavendale

and Suzanne follow their example as indifferently as possible.  Mr.

Silburn sit at the head of the table, with Lady Marsham on his right

and Mr. Steinletter opposite.  there be a certain significance to

Lavendale in the fact that his cousin be not present.  a somewhat

gloomy light be throw upon the face of the little company from a

heavily-shade oil lamp suspend by a brass chain from the roof, and,

look around at their mingled expression, Lavendale for the first

time feel a sense of real danger, a thrill of something like fear, not

for his own sake but for Suzanne's.  he grope for her hand beneath the

table and hold the icy-cold finger tightly.



'Courage, dear,' he murmur under his breath.



she smile at he plaintively, and with the fear still lurk in her

dark eye.  then Mr. Silburn lean forward in his place and tap

upon the table with his forefinger.  his voice in the hollow space

sound strangely.



'my friend,' he begin, 'few word be good.  we live, as you all know,

from day to day in danger.  no such association as ours could continue

to exist without hourly peril.  so far we have triumph over the

secret service of every country.  so far we have carry on our great

work without hindrance or suspicion.  those day I be force to tell

you, be pass.  the hour of our supreme peril be close at hand.

there be two people here present who have guess our secret.  one of

they, this young lady upon my left, Miss de Freyne, be here for no

other purpose than to spy upon we.'



Suzanne seem to have regain her courage.  in the moment of trial

she be strong than in the indeterminate hour of suspense.  she

turn her head towards Silburn.



'what be you all but spy,' she demand, 'spy of the low and

most dastardly class?  you be here under the shelter of a friendly

country to do she all the harm you can, to stab in the dark, to take

advantage of your nationality--your american nationality--to pose as an

Anglo-Saxon.  you abuse the country which shelter you.  you call I a

spy!  compare with you, all of you, I be the most innocent person who

ever breathe.'



a strange impassivity seem to be reflect from all the face of the

little gathering.  only in Mr. Kindersley's face there tremble for a

moment some shadow of sympathy.



'you have hear the young lady,' Mr. Silburn continue calmly.  'we

come now to her companion.  Mr. Lavendale, although an american by

birth, have embrace the cause of this country; doubtless,' he add,

with a little satirical bow, 'for reason upon which I will not

enlarge.  he have become the ally of mademoiselle.  we secure his

presence here, I admit, by a ruse.  my friend, these two people's

knowledge of our secret be fatal to our safety.'



there be a moment's silence.  then Lady Marsham lean back in her

chair.



'I propose,' she say firmly, 'that the same step be take with these

two people as heretofore.'



there be a little murmur of approval.  only Mr. Kindersley sigh.



'one must remember,' he observe reflectively, 'that it be not only for

our own safety--it be for the preservation of a great cause.'



Lavendale take a cigarette from a box in the centre of the table, and

light it.



'I don't know what this penalty be that you propose to inflict upon

we,' he remark, 'but I should just like to remind you that you be

live in a very highly civilized country, where people do not

disappear.'



'at Hookam,' Mr. Silburn say calmly, 'people have disappear for the

last nine hundred year.  below there, the secret cloister reach

almost to the sea.  the clever and most astute criminologist who

ever breathe might track you to these door, Lavendale, and search

until their hair be grey before they discover a single trace of you.

my servant be mine, body and soul.  for my wife's sake, Lavendale----'



'look here,' Lavendale interrupt, 'I be not sure whether you be in

earnest or not, but whatever you might be think about for I, you

couldn't be such brutes----'



he stop short.  there be a sudden light in his face.  from outside

the door they could clearly hear the sound of an angry voice.  a little

ripple of terrified excitement flash around the table.  Mr. Silburn's

tooth come together with a little click.  there be a curious tremor of

emotion in his tone.



'lock the door,' he order Barracombe.



it be too late.  in a long travel ulster, with his cap still in

his hand, Major Elwell stand already upon the threshold.  behind he,

still protest, be Lydia Silburn.



'Elwell!' Lavendale shout.  'thank God!'



Major Elwell gaze around at they all through his eye-glass and look

back at the woman by his side.  he seem bewildered.



'what in the name of all that's holy be this?' he demand.



there be a moment's silence.  Lavendale draw a long breath.  his arm

be stretch out accusingly towards his host.  suddenly the word

fail upon his lip.  he look around he, speechless, amazed.  it

be as though the whole world have go mad.  Mr. Barracombe, from the

opposite side of the table, have remove his spectacle from his nose

and be wipe the tear from his eye.  Lady Marsham be lean on

one side, double up.  there be only one common sound

everywhere--laughter, irresistible, compelling, unmistakable.  Mr.

Silburn, take off his pince-nez and struggle for composure, rise to

his foot.



'the sentence of the court upon you two,' he declare unsteadily,

'would have be deliver with more solemnity but for the premature

arrival of our friend Jack Elwell.  I hereby pronounce it, however,

finally and irrevocably.  it be this, Ambrose Lavendale--that you offer

your arm to Miss de Freyne, that you lead the way in to supper, and

that you produce your marriage certificate within three week.'



almost as he speak, light flash out from the great room below.  a

long table be lay for supper.  there be servant who seem to

appear like magic, with bottle and dish.  Lavendale turn towards

Elwell, look back at his host and finally down at Suzanne.



'Suzanne,' he exclaim, 'I believe we're spoof!'



she shake her head.  there be tear of relief in her eye, but a

delicious curve of laughter upon her lip.



'I do not know the word,' she admit, 'but I believe it be true.'



'lead the way, young fellow,' Mr. Silburn insist.  'forgive we, you

two, but when we hear of Miss de Freyne down at the village, make

inquiry about we--well, you remember I have to leave Harvard for a

practical joke!'



'all the same,' Lydia Silburn declare from the background, 'the

sentence of the court be final.'



they take their place, and the supper party very soon become a much

gayer meal than the dinner which have precede it.  towards its close,

Lavendale whisper to Suzanne.



'dear,' he say, 'I'm afraid we'll have to own up that we haven't be

quite as astute as usual.  perhaps we be get a little stale.

suppose we take--a holiday?'



she flash a wonderful smile up at he.



'it be the sentence of the court,' she murmur.







the END







_print in Great Britain by_ Butler & Tanner, _Frome and London_









      *      *      *      *      *









  _the Novels of_

  _E. PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM_



  the profiteer

  the DEVIL'S PAW

  JACOB'S LADDER

  the great impersonation

  the strange case of MR. JOCELYN THEW

  the HON. ALGERNON KNOX, DETECTIVE

  AARON RODD, DIVINER

  AMBROSE LAVENDALE, DIPLOMAT

  the WICKED MARQUIS

  MR. LESSINGHAM go HOME

  the other ROMILLY

  the double TRAITOR

  the pawns COUNT

  the MISCHIEF maker

  the illustrious PRINCE

  the plunderer

  the temptation of tavernake

  HAVOC

  the FALLING STAR

  the LIGHTED WAY

  the black WATCHER

  PETER RUFF

  the BLACK BOX



  _HODDER & STOUGHTON, LTD._

  _Publishers, London, E.C.4_









*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK AMBROSE LAVENDALE, DIPLOMAT ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





