The project Gutenberg eBook of Aaron Rodd, Diviner

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Aaron Rodd, Diviner



author: E. Phillips Oppenheim



Release date: January 29, 2016 [ebook #51076]

                most recently update: October 30, 2017



language: English



credit: produce by Al Haines





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK AARON RODD, DIVINER ***









produce by Al Haines



















  AARON RODD

  diviner





  BY



  E. PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM



  AUTHOR of "the other ROMILLY"

  "the black WATCHER," ETC.





  HODDER and STOUGHTON

  LIMITED LONDON

  1920









content



CHAPTER I



the Cunning of Harvey Grimm





CHAPTER II



Poetry by Compulsion





CHAPTER III



An Alliance of Thieves





CHAPTER IV



Ulysses of Wapping





CHAPTER V



the Mysterious Assistant





CHAPTER VI



Paul Brodie Strikes





CHAPTER VII



the Infidelity of Jack Lovejoy





CHAPTER VIII



the Yellow Eye





CHAPTER ix



the Vengeance of Rosa Letchowiski





CHAPTER X



the end of Jeremiah Sands









_chapter i_  _the Cunning of Harvey Grimm_



a queer, unexpected streak of sunshine, which by some miracle have find

its way through a pall of cloud and a low-hang mist, suddenly fall

as though exhaust across the asphalt path of the Embankment Gardens.

a tall, gaunt young man, who have be seat with fold arm in the

corner of one of the seat, stare at it as though bewildered.  his

eye suddenly meet those of a young lady in deep black, who be gaze

about she in similar stupefaction.  almost at once, and with perfect

spontaneity, she smile upon he.



"but it be astonishing, this!" she exclaim.  "Sunshine in London--in

January!"



the young man be a little confused.  he be very diffident, and such

lack of conventionality on the part of a perfect stranger surprise he.



"it be unusual," he admit.



"it be a thing which I have never see," she go on, drop voice a

little and glance towards a bath-chair close at hand, in which an

elderly and very delicate-look old gentleman be muffle up in fur

and apparently asleep.  "it be something, even, for which I have not

dare to hope.  we seem so far here from everything that be bright and

beautiful and cheerful."



Aaron Rodd, who be a shy and awkward being, feel unexpectedly at his

ease.  he be even anxious for further conversation.  he have a rather

long, pale face, with deep-set eye and rugged feature.  he be

soberly, even sombrely dress in dismal black.  he have the air of a

recluse.  perhaps that be why the young lady smile upon he with such

confidence.



"you be not english?" he venture.



she shake her head.



"what we be now, alas!" she sigh, glance towards the bath-chair,

"I scarcely know, for we have no country.  like every one else in such

a plight, we come to England."



"it be your father who sleep there?" he enquire.



"it be my grandfather," she tell he.  "together--he and I and my

brother--we have pass through terrible time.  he have lose all power

to sleep at night.  in the daytime, when it do not rain, he be

wheel out here, and, if it be only not too cold, then he sleep as he

do now, and I watch."



"you be very young to have charge of he."



she smile a little pitifully.



"one grow old so quickly in these terrible day!  I be already

twenty-one.  but you," she go on--"see how inquisitive I am!--I see

you yesterday from the distance, seat here.  there be nursemaid and

queer fragment of humanity who seem to pass through these garden and

loiter, and sometimes there be those with affair who go on their way.

but you--what do you think of as you sit there?  you be a writer,

perhaps?"



he laugh a little harshly.  his voice be not altogether pleasant.



"I be a lawyer," he declare, "without a practice.  sometimes the

ghost who call at my empty office stifle I and I come out here to

escape from they."



"a lawyer?  an _avocat_?" she repeat softly to herself.



evidently she find something to interest she in the statement.  she

glance towards the sleep man.  then she come a little nearer.  he

be conscious of a very delightful and altogether un-english perfume,

aware suddenly that her eye be the colour of violet, frame

underneath with deep but not unbecoming line, that her mouth be

curve in a fashion strange to he.



"Englishmen, they say, be so much to be trust," she murmur, "and a

lawyer, too..."



"I be an American by birth," he interpose, "although I have live over

here nearly all my life."



"it be the same thing.  we need advice so badly.  let I ask you one

question.  be it not the first principle of a lawyer to hold sacred

whatever confidence his client may confide in he?"



"absolutely," he assure she.



"even if that confidence," she persist, "should bring the person who

offer it within the hold of the law?"



"a lawyer may refuse a client," he say, "but he may never betray his

confidence."



"will you tell I your name and address?" she ask eagerly.



"my name be Aaron Rodd," he tell she.  "my address be number seventeen,

Manchester Street, Adelphi, and my office be on the third floor."



"Mr. Aaron Rodd," she repeat, with a queer little foreign intonation.

"that be a strange name and I shall remember it.  when might one visit

you, monsieur?  at three o'clock this afternoon?"



"I shall be in all day."



"then au revoir!" she exclaim, with an abrupt gesture of farewell.



the old gentleman have open his eye and be gaze fretfully about.

she cross the asphalt walk swiftly towards he.  an attendant, who

seem to have go to sleep stand on one leg; grip the handle of

the bath-chair.  the girl pass her arm around the old man's shoulder

and whisper something to the attendant.  they pass away together.

the little streak of sunshine have go.  Aaron Rodd thrust his ungloved

hand into his coat pocket and make his way in the opposite

direction....



about an hour later, a small, rubicund man, a man whose dark hair be

turn grey, but whose eye be bright and whose complexion be

remarkably healthy, pause before the door-plate of an office building

in one of the back street lead from the Adelphi.  he be dress

with extreme neatness, from the tip of his patent boot to his grey

feel hat, and he be obviously of a cheerful disposition.  he glance

down the list of name, twirl his cane in light-hearted fashion and

whistle softly to himself.  suddenly he pause.  his cane cease its

aimless configuration and rest for a moment upon a name about

half-way down the list, the name of Mr. Aaron Rodd, Solicitor and

Commissioner for Oaths.  there be also an indication that Mr. Rodd's

office be to be find upon the third floor.  his prospective visitor

glance around, and, discover that there be no lift, start out

for the stone stair.  on the first landing he encounter a small boy,

descend with a roll of paper under his arm.  he the new-comer,

whose name be Mr. Harvey Grimm, promptly address.



"my young sir," he say pleasantly, "from the red tape around that

bundle of paper which you be carry, I gather that you have legal

connection.  you be probably the confidential clerk of the gentleman

whom I be propose to visit.  can you tell I, before I attempt

another flight of these very dusty and unsympathetic step, whether Mr.

Aaron Rodd be within?"



the boy glance at his questioner suspiciously.



"I be not in Mr. Rodd's office," he reply.  "I'm Steel and Agnett,

second floor."



"that," Mr. Harvey Grimm sigh regretfully, "be unfortunate.  a very

excellent firm your, my boy.  do not let I any long interfere with

your effort on their behalf."



Aaron Rodd's prospective visitor, with a sigh, recommence the ascent.

the boy look after he for a moment dubiously and then disappear.

arrive at the third floor, at the extreme end of the corridor the

former discover a door, on which be paint the name of _Mr. Aaron

Rodd_.  he knock, be bid to enter, and step at once into a

single, bald and unpromising-look apartment.



"good morning, Aaron!" he say cheerfully, close the door behind he

and advance across the dusty floor.



Aaron Rodd, who have be seat before a desk, apparently immerse in a

legal document, first raise his head and then rise slowly to his foot.

his first look of expectancy, as he have turn towards his visitor,

fade by degree into a very curious expression, an expression which

seem make up of a great deal of amazement and a certain amount of

dread.  with his left hand he grip the side of the desk.



"my God!" he exclaim.  "it's Ned----"



his visitor hold out his hand.



"no, no, my dear Aaron," he interrupt firmly, "you be deceive by a

slight resemblance.  you be think, probably, of that poor fellow

Ned Stiles.  you will never see Ned again, Aaron."



the intelligence appear to cause the listener no grief.  neither do

it carry with it any conviction.



"Harvey Grimm be my name," the new-comer go on, "Mr. Harvey Grimm, if

you please, of Chicago.  you remember I now, without a doubt?"



he extend his hand confidently.  his smile be ingratiate, his air

that of an ingenuous child anxious for a favourable reception.  Aaron

Rodd slowly thrust out his ink-stain finger.



"I remember you all right," he admit.



the visitor, having establish his identity, seem disposed to

abandon the subject.  he glance around the room, and, discover a

cane-bottom chair on which be pile some dust-cover document, he

calmly sweep they away, annex the chair, which he carefully flick

around with a silk handkerchief, and bring it to the side of the desk.



"sit down, my dear fellow, I beg you," he invite, lay his hat on

the floor by his side, hitch up his blue serge trouser and smile

in momentary satisfaction at his well-polished shoe.  "I have

appropriate, I fancy, the client's chair.  be I right, I wonder, in

presume that there have not be much use for it lately?"



"perfectly right," be the grim reply.



"hard time these have be for all of we," Harvey Grimm declare, with

an air of placid satisfaction.  "you be not expect a client this

morning, I presume?"



"nor a miracle."



"in that case I will smoke," the new-comer continue, produce a

small, gold case, select a cigarette and light it.  "try one."



Aaron Rodd hesitate and finally accept the offer.  he smoke with

the air of one unused to the indulgence.



"Mr. Harvey Grimm of Chicago," he mutter, study his visitor's very

immaculate appearance.  "haven't I hear the name somewhere, or see it

in the paper lately?"



"possibly," be the suave reply.  "my arrival in London have, I think,

create some slight interest.  even your press, I find, be not above

record the movement of a capitalist."



"a what?"



"a capitalist," Harvey Grimm repeat calmly.  "with a name like mine,

and an abode like Chicago, I be amazed that you do not divine it."



"seven year ago," Aaron Rodd observe, "we divide seventeen pound,

four shilling and eightpence.  it be, I believe, our united capital."



"and to judge by your surrounding," his companion sigh, "I fear, my

friend, that you have be emulate the man who tie up his talent in

a stocking.  I, on the other hand----"



"have change your name and become a capitalist," Aaron Rodd

interrupt drily.



"precisely!"



there be a moment's silence.  Mr. Harvey Grimm, with the beatific

smile of opulence, be whistle softly to himself.  his companion's

thought have apparently travel back into the past.



"well," the latter say at last, "I will imitate your candour.  the

document I be examine with so much interest when you come in, be a

seven-year-old lease, long since cancel.  the few black box you

see around the room be, with one exception, bogus.  I sit here from

morning till night and nothing happen.  I sit here and brood."



"dear I!  dear I!" his visitor murmur sympathetically.



"by turn my chair around," Aaron Rodd continue, "I can just catch a

glimpse of the river across the Gardens there.  I sit and watch, wonder

whether a tug will go past next or a light, watch the people in the

garden, wonder where they be go, why they be loiter, why

hurrying.  I speculate about the few passer-by down in the street

there.  sometimes I close my eye and I fancy myself in Lincoln's Inn,

seat in a padded morocco chair, with a Turkey-carpet on the floor,

and row of box, black tin box, with wonderful name inscribe upon

they in white lettering, reach to the ceiling, and my secretary

pore over my engagement book, wonder when it would be possible for

I to squeeze in half an hour for an important client."



"too much of the dreamer about you," Harvey Grimm pronounce.

"perhaps, after all, it be the fault of your work.  it's a sedative

profession, you know, Aaron.  it wouldn't suit I to have to sit and

wait for client."



"it's the black bogey of my life," the other assent, with a thin note

of passion in his tone.  "if only one could get out and work, even if

one don't get a penny for it!"



"and financially?" Harvey Grimm enquire, with an apologetic cough.



"on the rock," be the bitter reply.  "you can understand," he go

on, with a heedless sarcasm, "what a wonderful thing it be for I to

welcome a capitalist in my shabby office."



"and an old friend," be the cheerful reminder.  "come, come, Aaron, we

must look into this.  I must place some of my affair in your charge."



Aaron Rodd's lip curl with bitter incredulity.



"some of your affair!  I have a taste of those in the old day, Ned--I

mean Harvey.  you bring I to the brink of Sing-sing, you drive I

over here to make a fresh start."



Harvey Grimm wave his hand.  these reminiscence be indelicate.



"my dear fellow!" he protest.  "now come, answer I a few question.

such affair of business as have fall to your lot have be conduct

with--er--discretion?"



"if you mean have I preserve my reputation," the lawyer reply

grimly, "I have.  I have no temptation to do otherwise."



"that be capital," his friend declare.  "that help we at once.  and

now, I think," he go on, glance at his neat little wristwatch,

"lunch."



Aaron Rodd's first movement be almost eager.  he check himself,

however.  then a glance at his visitor's immaculate toilet and

distinctly opulent appearance reassure he.



"there will be no trouble, I presume," he say a little diffidently,

"as to the settlement of our bill?  I warn you before we start that a

shilling and a few coppers----"



Harvey Grimm lay his hand almost affectionately upon the other's

shoulder.



"my dear Aaron," he expostulate, "you be a little confused.  you have

not yet take in the position.  a capitalist be, of course, a relative

term.  I will not press that point.  but let I assure you that I have

a suite of room at the Milan, ample credit for any meal I choose to

take there, even money to pay for they, if necessary."



"I be not fit to go to the Milan," Aaron Rodd mutter, brush

himself vigorously.



"that be entirely your mistake," his friend reply, rise to his foot

and light another cigarette.  "a judicious shabbiness be to-day an

approve form of eccentricity.  with your ascetic face, my dear Aaron,

that little wisp of black tie, your clean but fray collar, your

sombre, well-wear clothe, you would be mistake by the casual observer

for either a Chancery lawyer with an indifferent housekeeper, or a

writer of dramatic blank verse, which every one admire but no one

buy.  reassure yourself, Aaron.  I predict that as a companion you

will do I every credit."



for the first time a grim, hard smile part the lip of the man who

be make out with rather weary finger the accustomed card to affix

to his door.



"the needy adventurer be what I feel like in these day," he observe.



"and why not adventurer?" Harvey Grimm protest, as they descend the

stone step.  "we be all needy, that be to say we all need something

or other, and we all--those of we who understand life, at any

rate--seek adventure.  even with the success I have myself attain--I

will be quite frank with you, my dear Aaron--I be entirely unchanged.

I can assure you that I be not above find interest and pleasure, as

well as profit, in any adventure which may come to hand."



his companion chuckle drily.



"I can well believe it," he murmur.



they stroll up the street, a somewhat curiously assorted couple.  Mr.

Harvey Grimm's grey feel hat, his neat and somewhat jaunty figure,

rather suggest the successful trainer of careful habit, or elderly

jockey enjoy the opulence of middle age.  Aaron Rodd, on the other

hand, look exactly what he be--the lean and hungry professional man

with whom the time have go ill.



"Queer neighbourhood, this, you've choose for your office, Aaron," his

friend remark, pause as they near the corner.  "what sort of

people come into these part, anyway?"



"it's just a backwater.  there's the broad stream of London flow on

to success and prosperity a few yard up the hill.  if you listen for a

moment you can hear it.  these little street be just parasitical

branch, still alive and still struggle, but fit for nothing but to

be snap off.  all the furtive business in the world might be

conduct behind these silent, unwashe window and blank

doorway--shabby theatrical agency, doubtful publication, bet

office of poor reputation.  People come here to hide or to escape

notice.  there be a murder commit down by the railing at the end

of the street, only a year or so ago."



"obviously," Harvey Grimm remark cheerfully, "the region of

melancholia and tragedy.  we must see how thing go, Aaron.  perhaps,

later on, it would be as well for you to move to a well-know part.

just at present, however, it be well enough."



the tall young man look down at his companion half derisively, half

eagerly.  he know he too well to ask many question, know he too well

to hope unduly, know, too, the danger into which this simple luncheon

might lead he.  yet only a few night ago he have think of the river!

it be well to take luncheon with Harvey Grimm at the Milan than to

feel the black water suck his breath away!



      *      *      *      *      *



"feel well, Aaron?" Harvey Grimm enquire of his friend, about an

hour and a half later.



Aaron Rodd be both feel and look well and acknowledge the

fact.  his manner towards his host, too, show sign of a subtle

change.  the latter be obviously _persona grata_ in the restaurant.

their table, although a little retire, be in a coveted corner, and

attention of every sort have be respectfully offer they.

nevertheless, his guest feel some sense of relief when he see the bill

sign with a little flourish and accept with a low bow by their

waiter.  Harvey Grimm lean back in his chair and remove the cigar

for a moment from his lip.



"you've no faith in I, Aaron," he declare, with an encouraging smile.

"that's what you always lack, even in the old day--faith.  you're

lose touch with the world, you know, coope up in that musty office

of your.  you don't expect anything to happen to you so long as you

grub away there, do you?"



"nothing have happen, at any rate," Aaron Rodd admit.



"I will not say that it be your fault," his companion continue

tolerantly.  "you be by nature of a meditative and retire

temperament.  it be a piece of extraordinarily good fortune for you

that I never forget old friend."



"have you anything to propose to I?" Aaron Rodd ask bluntly.



his host lean across the table.



"always so downright, my dear Aaron," he murmur, "so material!

however, you have ask the question and here be my answer.  I be

propose to remain in London for some little time.  there be various

scheme which have suggest themselves to I, which might readily lead

to an enlargement of my income.  for their prosecution, my dear Aaron,

I need one, only one companion whom I can trust, one man who be out for

the big thing.  that be why I come to you.  I offer you a partnership

in the concern--Harvey Grimm and Rodd, Traffickers in Fate, Dealers in

Adventures.  how your hand shake, man!  there, you've drop the ash

from your cigar!"



Aaron Rodd's thin lip be quiver.  his eye seem full of

unutterable thing.



"I have make such a fight of it," he mutter.  "you've get I, though,

Harvey.  I've eat my last crust.  I should have have to sell my office

stool for a meal to-morrow."



his friend shake his head genially.



"my dear Aaron," he protest, "such a confession from a man of brain,

when one consider how the world be overrun with fool, be a terrible

one."



"one have a conscience," Rodd sigh, "and a profession like mine

don't lend itself to crooked dealing."



Harvey Grimm smile tolerantly.  he have the air of one listen to a

child.



"the wolf of the world," he say, "keep their conscience, and as

regard wrong-doing, it's just success that make the difference....

my dear fellow!" he break off, look up into the face of a man who

have pause at their table and whose hand be now repose heavily upon

his shoulder.  "my dear Brodie, this be most opportune.  let I present

you to my friend, Mr. Aaron Rodd.  Aaron, this be Mr. Brodie--in the

language of the cinema," he add, drop his voice a little and

lean forward, "the sleuthhound of Europe, the great living

detective."



Aaron Rodd sit for a moment motionless, the cigar slip from his

finger on to the plate.  all his new hope seem crumble away.  his

eye be fix upon the hand which grip his companion's shoulder.

Harvey Grimm begin to laugh softly.



"cheer up, my pessimistic friend!" he exclaim.  "this ben't the grip

of the law which be upon my shoulder.  Mr. Brodie and I be friend--I

might even say ally."



Aaron Rodd recover himself and murmur a few word of mechanical

greeting.  the new-comer meanwhile take the chair which the waiter have

offer he.  he be a tall, burly man, clean-shaven, with steely grey

eye, and grey hair brush back from his forehead.  his manner be

consequential, his tone patronise.



"so this be our third hand, eh?"



"guess it in one with your usual astuteness," Harvey Grimm

acknowledge cheerfully.  "a lawyer of unblemished character, not

momentarily affluent, with the principle of a latitudinarian."



"have he get the nerve?" Mr. Brodie demand.  "if we be on the right

track, there's no room for weakling in the job."



"Aaron Rodd's all right," his friend declare confidently.  "you leave

that to I.  I'll answer for he."



the young man lean across the table.



"do I understand," he enquire, "that our enterprise be on the side of

the law?"



Harvey Grimm smile.



"the present one, my dear Aaron.  I should explain to you, perhaps,

that Mr. Brodie be not officially attach either to Scotland Yard or

to Police Headquarters in New York.  he spend some year at Scotland

Yard and, have the good luck to inherit a small fortune, and feel

himself handicap by the antiquated method and jealousy of his

competitor, he decide to strike out for himself as an independent

investigator.  some day he will tell we a few of his adventure."



Mr. Brodie have fold his arm and be look very impose.



"I have hunt criminal," he assert, "in every quarter of the world.

I have method of my own.  I have a genius for make use of people."



"so you see, my dear Aaron," Harvey Grimm point out, "at present Mr.

Brodie and I be the great of friend.  he recognise the fact that

I be what be baldly speak of as an adventurer, and that the time may

come when we shall find ourselves in opposite camp, but just at

present it be our privilege to be of service to Mr. Brodie."



then a thing, ordinary enough in its way, happen in a curious manner.

Mr. Brodie be a large man but he seem suddenly to fade away.  there

be his empty chair and a dim vision of a retreating figure behind one

of the central sideboard.  Aaron Rodd seem dimly conscious of a look

of warning flash between the two man, but nothing equal to the swift

secrecy of Mr. Brodie's movement have ever confuse his sense.  harvey

Grimm lean across the table, hold his liqueur glass in his hand.



"slick fellow, Brodie," he murmur.  "no good his be see talk

to we when the quarry's about, eh?  Nice brandy, this.  on the dry

side, perhaps, but with a flavour to it."



Aaron Rodd understand that he be to ask no question and he discuss

the subject of brandy in a sufficiently ignorant manner.  he, too,

however, within the course of the next few second, find need for the

exercise of all his power of self-control.  only a few yard away from

he be a young man in some foreign uniform, with his arm in a sling,

discuss with a _maître d'hôtel_ as to the locality of his table.  by

his side be the girl with whom he have talk that morning in the

Embankment Gardens, and behind the two, a somewhat pathetic picture,

be the old man, his face as wither as parchment, his narrow white

beard carefully trim, lean heavily upon a stick.  almost as he

realise their presence they move on, escort by the _maître d'hôtel_

to a table in a distant corner.  Aaron Rodd draw a long breath as they

disappear.  his companion look at he curiously.



"be those the people," the lawyer ask eagerly, "on whose account

Brodie move away?"



Harvey Grimm watch they settle in their place.



"they be," he admit.  "a pathetic-look trio! ... and, now, my

dear Aaron," he go on, "we will discuss your little adventure in the

Embankment Gardens this morning.  you perceive that the moment be

appropriate."



"my little adventure?" Aaron Rodd repeat blankly.  "why--you mean to

say you be there, then?  you see she speak to I?"



"certainly!  I be seat a little far down, talk with my friend

Mr. Brodie.  we have our eye upon the young lady."



Aaron Rodd feel a sudden disinclination to speak of that little gleam

of sunshine.



"she speak to I quite casually," he declare.  "afterwards she ask

I my profession.  I tell she that I be a lawyer.  perhaps she have

already guess it.  I suppose I do rather look the part."



"you do indeed, my friend!  and then?"



the young man hesitate.  his partner's benevolent face suddenly

assume a sterner aspect.



"Aaron," he remind he, "we be on business.  the truth, please--no

reservation."



"she ask I," the other go on, "whether the confidence of a client

be always respect by one in my profession."



"and your reply?"



"I assure she, of course, that under any circumstance it be."



Harvey Grimm lean back in his chair.  he roll the remain drop of

brandy around in his glass, his expression be beatific.



"my dear Aaron," he say, "fate smile upon our new partnership.  the

young lady be go to pay you a visit?"



"at three o'clock this afternoon, if she keep her word."



"finish your brandy and come with I to my apartment," Harvey Grimm

direct.  "we have matter to discuss and arrange before you receive

that visit."



      *      *      *      *      *



an hour or so later, Aaron Rodd be seat once more before his

dilapidate, ink-stain desk.  the gloom of the winter afternoon be

only partly dissipate by the single gas-jet burning above his head.

the same old lease be spread out underneath his hand.  in his face,

however, there be a distinct change.  the listlessness have go.  he

have the air of one await event.  so he have sit for the last

half-hour, with his eye fix alternately upon the outside door,

purposely leave ajar, and the inner one which lead to his humble

bed-sit-room.



there come at last the sound for which he have be wait.  up that

last flight of stone stair he could hear distinctly the slow movement

of weary footstep, the continual tapping of a stick, the occasional

cough and querulous complaint of a tired old man, and by the side of

those shuffle footstep, other, marvellously light, the swish of a

silken skirt, the music of a clear, very sweet young voice.



"you see, we be arrive," she be say.  "there be the name upon the

door.  you will be able to sit down directly.  Courage, dear

grandfather.  remember it be for Leopold's sake."



then there follow a gentle knock, the somewhat hesitate entrance of

the two, the half-doubtful look of the girl towards the tall, gaunt

young man whose face seem almost saturnine underneath that unshade

light.  as he move forward, however, she recognise he, and a smile

of relief part her lip.



"ah! it be Mr. Rodd, be it not--the gentleman with whom I speak in the

Gardens this morning--the lawyer?"



he bow.  Anxiety make his voice sound even harsh.  many thing have

happen since the morning.



"you have keep your promise, then," he remark.  "you have come to

consult I.  I be at your service.  one moment."



he bring two of the chair which stand stiffly against the wall, and

place they by the side of his desk.  the old man sit down with an air

of relief.  the passage up the stair have apparently exhaust he.



"we be very haphazard client, I fear, Mr. Rodd," he say wearily.

"this be unfortunately one of my bad day.  I must leave my

granddaughter to explain the reason of our visit, and in what manner we

hope to be able to make use of your service."



"if I do so, grandfather," she say, turn a little towards he, "I

be go to tell the whole truth."



"if it must be," he murmur uneasily.



the girl take up at once the burden of explanation.



"my grandfather, my brother and myself," she begin, "be stay at the

Milan Hotel.  we make use of a name, the name of Brinnen, to which we

have some right, even though it may be a shadowy one.  we happen to be

Belgians by birth, a fact which at the present moment make our

position easy.  to be honest with you, however, my brother have just

return from America.  he have be engage for some time in more

hazardous enterprise, even, than defend his country against the

Germans."



the old man interrupt she impatiently.



"these explanation be waste of time," he insist.  "tell this

gentleman quickly what we desire of he."



she pat his hand and glance half apologetically across at Aaron

Rodd.  he have resume his seat before his desk, his face half hide by

his hand.  listen to the girl's voice, he have become conscious of a

long-forget sentiment.  encumber though she be with a difficult

mission, there be a certain fineness of speech and manner, an appeal

for sympathy in even this last gesture, which he find strangely

disturbing.



"you need explain to I no more than you wish," he tell she, a little

stiffly.  "I shall be glad to be of any service to you.  there be no

need for you to enter into any painful detail."



she shrug her shoulder protestingly.



"you and my grandfather be of one mind," she remark.  "then I will

make a confession which may sound abrupt but which be nevertheless

true.  we three--my brother, my grandfather and myself--be not

entitle to the sympathy we receive.  we be, to a certain extent,

impostor.  be your standard of moral a very high one, Mr. Rodd?"



"I--I scarcely really know," he stammer.  "as a lawyer I be bring

into contact with all condition of people.  I have before now do my

good for the criminal as I have for the honest man."



"it be reassure," she admit.  "Behold, then, my full confession.

you have to do now with criminal--or may I say adventurer?  we have,

we three, to dispose of secretly a very large amount of precious

stone.  I have come to you for advice.  the ordinary avenue of sale

be close to we.  how can we get into touch with some one who will buy

they and ask no question?"



Aaron Rodd be conscious of a little shock.  up to this last moment he

have be doubtful.  notwithstanding the story which have be unfold

to he by Harvey Grimm, he have clung to his first impression,

impression from which he be part now with dire reluctance.



"it be not an easy matter," he admit, "but if anyone can help you, I

can."



the girl nod.



"there must be secrecy," she declare.  "you see, my brother be, in a

way, notorious.  he have be very daring and very successful.  for the

sake of those who buy they, as well as for our own sake, the jewel

must not be recognise afterwards.



"I have a friend who might arrange it," Aaron Rodd announce.  "I must

warn you, however, that sell your stone in this way you cannot

possibly receive their full value."



"we do not expect that," the old man mumble.  "what we want, though,

be the money--quickly."



"my friend could doubtless manage that," the lawyer declare.



"when can we see he?" the girl ask eagerly.



"at once," be the prompt reply.  "he be with I when you come and I

send he into my private apartment.  if it be your wish, I will fetch

he."



"by all mean," the old man insist eagerly.



"yes, yes!" the girl echo.



Aaron Rodd rise to his foot and cross the room to the door which lead

into his private apartment.  he open it and beckon to its unseen

occupant.



"I have some client here who would like a word with you, Grimm," he

announce.  "there may, perhaps, be some business."



Harvey Grimm make his appearance at once.  his air of curiosity, as he

look into the room, be very well do.



"business?" he repeat.



"this gentleman and young lady," Aaron Rodd explain, "be client of

mine.  their name be unnecessary.  they have consult I as to the

disposal of valuable jewel, their claim to which--might be open to

question."



Harvey Grimm throw the cigar which he have be smoke into the

fire-place.



"I see," he murmur.  "well tell I the circumstance."



the girl repeat her story, with a few more detail.  the old man

listen in a sort of placid stupor.  he interrupt only once.



"it be a foolish way, this.  there be a man in Amsterdam----"



"you will tell I what you advise, monsieur," the girl beg.  "we

must have money, and the jewel must be make unrecognisable."



Harvey Grimm take a small magnifying glass from his pocket and screw

it together.



"you have probably bring some of the stone with you," he observe

briskly.



the girl hesitate.  she turn to her companion as though for

guidance.  he be still mumble to himself, however, something about

Amsterdam.



"it be absolutely essential," Harvey Grimm continue, "that I should

know something definite about the character of the stone you have to

offer--that be if you wish I to deal with they."



there be a brief silence.  then the girl rise to her foot and

deliberately turn away from the three man for several moment.  when

she swing around again, she hold in her hand a small chamois leather

bag.  very carefully she open and shake out its content into the

palm of Harvey Grimm's outstretche hand.



"the large one," she say simply, "belong to an american millionaire.

my brother say that it be worth twenty thousand pound.  he, too, be a

wonderful judge of precious stone."



the old man seem to wake up for a moment.



"it be worth," he falter, "a king's ransom."



they all three bent over the little collection of jewel.  Aaron Rodd's

expression be one of simple curiosity.  his knowledge of diamond be

_nil_.  his partner's manner, on the other hand, undergo a curious

change.  there be a hard glitter in his eye and unsuspected line

about his mouth.  the atmosphere of the little room have become charge

with new force.  the girl's face be tense with excitement, the old

man seem suddenly and subtly different.



"do not waste time," the former beg, a little feverishly.  "it be

not safe to bring these jewel into the daylight, even here.  if you

will buy, state your price.  give we an idea.  we can meet again,

perhaps."



Harvey Grimm turn towards they.



"the small stone be negligible," he pronounce.  "the large stone be

worth quite as much as you say.  to cut it up, however, and then sell

it in a secret market, be another thing.  the most you could hope for

would be five thousand pound."



the girl's face be a little vague.



"tell I," she enquire, "in english money how much be that a year?"



"two hundred and fifty pound."



"so that if there be ten stone like that," she go on, a little

wistfully, "that would be an income of two thousand, two hundred and

fifty pound.  one could live comfortably on that?  one could hide

somewhere in a quiet country place and live like gentlefolk?"



"certainly," Harvey Grimm assure she.



she turn a little doubtfully towards her companion.



"I be afraid," she sigh, "that grandfather be almost past realise

what money mean.  in any case, we must consult my brother."



then there come without warn an interruption which seem equally

startling to all of they.  without any preliminary summon, the door of

the office be throw open.  the detective, Brodie, follow by a man

in plain clothe out with an unmistakably professional appearance,

enter the room.  the latter close the door behind he.  Brodie

approach the little group.  the girl's eye be light with terror.

Harvey Grimm drop his handkerchief over the jewel, whilst his

partner step forward.  Aaron Rodd's tone be harsh with anxiety, his

face seem more drawn than ever.



"what do you want here?" he demand.



Mr. Brodie smile tolerantly.  his eye be fix upon the table.  he

push the questioner on one side and lift the handkerchief which

Harvey Grimm have throw over the diamond.  then he turn towards his

companion with a little cry of triumph.



"that," he declare, point to the jewel upon the table, "be one of

the Van Hutten diamond."



"I do not understand," the girl say quietly enough, although she be

shake from head to foot.  "it belong to we.  it be the property

of----"



"cut it out," Brodie interrupt brusquely.  "we'll talk to you, young

lady, at police head-quarter."



the girl turn to Aaron Rodd.



"who be this man, and what do he want?" she cry.  "be this a trap

into which you have draw we?  be it a crime, here in England, then, to

offer jewel for sale?"



"we'll talk this all out at the police station," Brodie intervene

curtly.  "inspector?"



the man in plain clothe step forward and take command of the

situation.



"my instruction be," he announce politely, "to ask you both to come

with I to the police-station."



the old gentleman simply look daze.  he rise to his foot obediently

and turn towards the girl.  she pat his arm reassuringly, but

there be a look in her face which bring a sob into Aaron Rodd's

throat.  he be fill all the time with a silent fury.  he curse the

moment which have take he into the Embankment Gardens, which have

bring Harvey Grimm once more into his life.  the single look which

the girl have flash upon he be like a dagger in his heart.



Brodie have replace the diamond, one by one, in the little bag.  he

hand they over to his companion and motion they all towards the

door.  the old gentleman move wearily along, lean upon his

granddaughter's arm.  Aaron Rodd hurry forward and open the door.

he try to say something, but the girl turn from he contemptuously.

he stand on the threshold, listen to their slow footstep as they

descend into the street.  then he swing back into the room, slam

the door and sink into the chair in front of his desk.  it be as

though he have pass through some terrible nightmare.  he sit gaze

out through the shadow.  have it all really happen?  then he catch a

faint, unfamiliar breath of perfume which suddenly set his heart

beat with unaccustomed vigour.  a little morsel of white lace lie

underneath the chair upon which she have be seat.  he stoop and

pick it up, smooth it out, and let it slip from his finger almost

in despair.  it be all true, then!  she have sit in that chair, have

come to his office, trust he, have walk into the

Harvey-Grimm-cum-Brodie trap!



      *      *      *      *      *



it be an hour or more before Harvey Grimm return.  he close the

door after he and come briskly across the floor.



"well, young fellow," he exclaim, "you cann't say that I haven't

fish you out of the backwater."



"I wish to God you'd leave I there!" be the bitter reply.  "tell I

what's happen to she?"



"to her?--oh, the young lady!" Harvey Grimm murmur, with an

illuminate smile.  "she's all right.  she's back at the Milan by this

time."



"they couldn't identify the diamond, then?" Aaron Rodd ask eagerly.



"not by a long chalk," be the smile reply.  "to tell you the truth,

Brodie's about the sick man in London just now.  the stone he roll

out in front of the expert they have wait down at Scotland Yard

was----"



"be what?"



"a lump of paste," Harvey Grimm declare, light a cigarette.  "queer

business, eh?"



"there's no charge against the old gentleman and his granddaughter,

then?" Aaron Rodd demand breathlessly.



"none whatever.  why not try a cigarette, Aaron?  you're all nerve."



the lawyer push the box away from he.



"you may think this sort of thing's worth while," he declare gloomily.

"I cann't say that I do.  there'll be no reward to share, and it seem

to I that we've make an enemy----"



"there's no reward," Harvey Grimm agree, "but there's this."



he draw his handkerchief from his pocket.  a diamond almost as large as

a cobnut roll over and lie upon the desk.  Aaron Rodd stare at it in

amazement.



"what's that?" he demand.



"one of the Van Hutten diamond," be the triumphant reply.  "look at

it well.  you willn't see it again.  by this time to-morrow it will have

be cut."



Aaron Rodd be stupefy.  he look from the stone up to his

companion's face.  even his demand for some elucidation be mute.



"I have the duplicate ready," Harvey Grimm explain.  "that be my

game.  I change they underneath my handkerchief.  it be perfectly

easy.  they've get the imitation one at police head-quarter and they

ben't feel particularly pleased with themselves.  that fellow

Brodie be about the bumm detective who ever cross the Atlantic."



Aaron Rodd be sit transfix.  his finger be shake as they

beat upon the desk.



"my God," he exclaim as light stream in upon he, "we're thief!"



"don't talk like a fool," the other admonish.  "it's a fair enough

game between crook.  we've steal a steal jewel, and by do it

we've save the girl and her grandfather and her brother, too, from

gaol.  that's fair do's, ben't it?  when I've finish with that,

there'll be a matter of three or four thousand pound for we to divide.

what about it, eh?"



he sweep the jewel back into his pocket.  Aaron Rodd's finger be

still idly beat upon the desk.  the wall of his dusty, bare

apartment have fall away, the thrall of his sordid poverty lie no

long like a dead weight upon his spirit.  three or four thousand

pound to divide!



"what you need," Harvey Grimm declare briskly, hand he his hat,

"be a drink.  come right along."









_chapter II_  _poetry by Compulsion_



Mr. Paul Brodie walk, unannounced, into Aaron Rodd's office, a matter

of ten day after the episode of the change diamond.  he have lose a

little of his bombast, and he carry himself with less than his usual

confidence.  his eye, however, have lose none of their old inquisitive

fire.  he be perfectly aware, even as he greet the two man who rise

to welcome he, that Aaron Rodd be wear a new suit of clothe, that

the office have be spring-clean, that the box of cigarette upon the

desk be of an expensive brand, and that the violet in the buttonhole

of Harvey Grimm's immaculate coat have come from a Bond Street florist.



"good morning, gentleman," he say airily, subside into the chair

which the latter have vacate for he.  "nice little trio of

conspirator we be, eh?"



Harvey Grimm shrug his shoulder.



"it's rough on you," he admitted--"gives you kind of a twist, of

course, with the police--but I cann't see any sense in the thing yet.

they ben't mean to trade off that bit of paste on a diamond expert

surely!"



the detective scratch his chin.



"that bit of paste," he declare, "be all they have on they, anyway.

seem as though they haven't quite sized you up--you and Mr. Rodd

here--and be pay you a test visit.  Gee, they're clever!"



"you have they search, I suppose," the other enquire, "to be sure

they haven't the real good with they?"



"you bet!" the detective assent gloomily.  "make it all the bad for

we afterwards.  I tell you I daren't show my face at Scotland Yard

these day."



Harvey Grimm nod sympathetically.



"still, they must know that these people ben't what they profess to

be," he observe.



"that's all very well," Brodie agree, "but every one go about with

kid glove on in this country.  that's why I throw up my job and go

over to the States.  even a criminal, a know criminal, have get to be

treat as though he be a little God Almighty until the charge be

right there and the proof lie handy.  I spend last night with

Inspector Ditchwater.  he's as sure as I be that the young man be no

other than Jeremiah Sands, but he'd soon let he slip through his

finger than take a risk."



"how do it come about, then," Aaron Rodd ask quietly, "that a

famous diamond thief be wear the uniform of a belgian officer, that

he be decorate and wound?"



"simple as possible," Brodie explain.  "we know perfectly well that

Jeremiah Sands be a Belgian.  that little fact have be in every

description of he that's ever be issue.  he chuck his little

enterprise in New York, the moment war be declare, and sail for

Europe, bring the loot with he.  he be as clever as paint, though.

he play the old game of send a double to Chicago, and he be in

Belgium before we know the truth.  there, from what we gather, he

hand over the stuff to the old man and his sister, and take up his

soldiering job.  the bad of it be he's cover up his trace so well

that we haven't a chance unless we can catch he, or one of the three,

with the good.  meanwhile, there he be, less than a quarter of a mile

away, with half a million of loot under his nose; there's a reward of

twenty-five thousand dollar for his apprehension; and here we three

man sit, need the money, and pretty well powerless."



"I wouldn't go so far as that," Harvey Grimm say quietly.  "I don't

fancy you've come to the end of your tether yet, Brodie."



the detective knock the ash from his cigar and rise to his foot.



"well," he admit, "I ben't give up, sure.  all the same, this

little failure have make thing difficult for I.  if I put my head in

at head-quarter and whisper 'Jeremiah Sands,' they're down my throat.

I just look in to see how you boy be," he add.  "they'll have

tumble to you both now, so I'm afraid the game's off so far as you be

concerned.  so long!  see you round at the Milan about cocktail time,

Harvey, eh?"



Mr. Brodie take his leave, with more expression of cordiality.  Aaron

Rodd close the door carefully after he and come back into the room.

for several moment neither of the two man speak.  Harvey Grimm

carefully select a cigarette and light it.  then he walk to the door,

open it and peer down the stair.



"too damned amiable!" he mutter as he return to his place.  "do

you see the way he peer around?  you have brighten thing up a bit,

Aaron."



"I haven't do more than be absolutely necessary," the young lawyer

protest.  "the place be simply filthy."



Harvey Grimm suddenly burst into a hearty laugh and slap his knee.



"that's all right, old fellow," he declare.  "it don't matter a snap

of the finger.  that chap Brodie do get I, though.  a baby could

see through he.  he's get just sense enough to believe that we pinch

the diamond--that's why he's be round here.  it just don't matter a

damn, Aaron, what he suspect.  that diamond don't exist any long.

neither our friend whom we--er--relieve of its incriminate

possession, nor Paul Brodie, will ever see that stone again.  let's

lunch."



Aaron Rodd reach for his hat and follow his friend out into the

street.  at the end of the little dingy thoroughfare, as they make

their way up towards the Strand, Harvey Grimm pause abruptly in front

of what seem to be a small book-shop.  there be only one or two

volume in the window, of what seem to be edition de luxe of some

unknown work.  there be a single modern engraving and a water-colour

of futurist propensity for background.  Harvey Grimm eye these

treasure appreciatively.



"this place please I," he announce.  "it have an air of its own.  we

will spend a few minute here."



the two man enter and look about they, a little bewildered by their

surrounding.  they seem to have step into a small and feminine

sit-room, the wall of which be hang with water-colour of

unusual subject and colouring.  there be a little pile of

paper-cover volume upon the table.  a young lady of sombre and

uncertain appearance come forward, and Harvey Grimm promptly remove

his hat.



"we have perhaps make a mistake?" he observe tentatively.  "from the

exterior appearance of your establishment, I gather that we might

possibly be able to procure here something unusual in the way of

literature.  in a small way I be a collector of old book."



"we be entirely modern here," the young woman reply.  "I can show

you hand-make pottery, or the water-colour of a young futurist artist,

or I can offer you the poetical work of one or two of our most modern

poet.  second-hand book or _objet d'art_ we do not deal in.  we

consider," she conclude, "that modernity, absolute modernity, be the

proper cult."



Harvey Grimm fan himself for a moment with his hat.  his companion

be gaze, with his mouth a little open, at a picture upon the wall

which appear to he to represent the bursting of a ripe tomato upon a

crazy landscape.



"an impression of war," the young woman remark, follow his gaze.

"a wonderful piece of work by a young futurist painter."



Harvey Grimm study it for a moment through his eyeglass, and cough.

he turn back to the table and pick up a paper-cover volume.



"Poetry," he murmur, "be one of my great solace."



"have you meet with the work of Stephen Cresswell?" the young woman

enquire, almost solemnly.



Harvey Grimm repeat the name several time.



"for the moment----" he confess.



"Eightpence," the girl interrupt, deposit one of the paper-cover

volume in his hand.  "perhaps your friend would like one, too.  I can

promise you that when you have read Cresswell's Spring Lyrics, you will

find all victorian poetry anæmic."



Harvey Grimm hand a copy to his companion, lay down two shilling

and pocket the eightpence change a little diffidently.



"you would perhaps like to look around," the young lady suggest.



she vanish into an inner room.  almost at that moment the door

lead into the street be violently open, and a young man of

somewhat surprising appearance abruptly enter.  he be over six foot

in height, he wear a flannel shirt and collar much the bad for wear,

a brown tweed coat from which every button be miss, and through an

old pair of patent boot come an unashamed and very evident toe.  the

two visitor stare at he in amazement.  the young man's eye, from

the moment of his entrance, be fix upon the paper volume which

Harvey Grimm be carry.



"Sir," he enquire, "be I to conclude that you have purchase a

copy--the copy of poem you hold in your hand?"



"I have just do so," Harvey Grimm admit, "also my friend."



the young man push past he towards the inner room.



"Bertha," he exclaim loudly, "eightpence, please!  you have sell two

copy of my poem.  the eightpence!"



there be a momentary silence and then the clinking of coin.  the

young man reappear and make for the door with an air of determination

in his face.  Harvey Grimm tap he on the shoulder.



"Sir," he say, "forgive I if I take a liberty, but be I right in

presume that you be the author of this volume?"



"I be," be the prompt reply, "and I be go to have a drink."



"one moment, if you please," his questioner beg.  "this, you must

remember, be an impertinent age.  modernity demand it.  be you not

also hungry?"



"ravenous," Mr. Stephen Cresswell confess, "but what can one do with

eightpence?"



"you will join my friend and myself," Harvey Grimm declare firmly.

"we be go to take a chop."



the young man's tongue seem to wander around the outside of his lip.



"a chop," he repeat absently.



"at a neighbour grill-room," Harvey Grimm go on.  "come, I have

buy two copy of your poem.  I have a claim for your

consideration."



"do I understand," the young man ask, "that you will pay for the

chop?"



"that will be my privilege," be the prompt assertion.



"you be doubtless mad," the poet observe, "but you be probably

opulent.  let we hurry."



they leave the place and cross the street, the young man in the

middle.  Aaron Rodd be speechless.  his eye seem fascinated by the

deficiency of their new friend's toilet, a fact of which he himself

seem sublimely unconscious.  Harvey Grimm, however, proceed to make

a delicate allusion to the matter.



"some little accident, I gather," he remark, "have happen--forgive

my noticing it--to your right shoe."



the poet glance carelessly downwards.



"it occur this morning," he sigh.  "to tell you the truth, I have

scarcely notice it.  there be a green streak in the sunrise.  I

hastened----"



Harvey Grimm have pause in front of a boot shop.



"this place," he say firmly, "will do as well as another."



"why not?" the young man agree, enter promptly, seat himself

upon the near vacant chair and hold out his foot.  "something

light," he beg.  "you will observe that my foot be long and narrow."



the shopman withdraw the tattered remnant of shoe and stare in

amazement at his prospective customer's bare foot.  the latter hold out

his hand for a cigarette and tap it against the side of Harvey

Grimm's case.



"it appear to I," he continue, gaze at his mud-stain foot, "that

I come out without sock.  the sunrise again.  however, it be a

deficiency which I perceive that you be in a position to remedy."



he select without embarrassment a pair of sock and shoe, and be

perfectly willing to don a tie which they purchase from a small

haberdasher's shop at the end of the street.  that affair dispose of,

however, he become quite firm.



"the affair of the chop----," he insist.



"we be there," Harvey Grimm interrupt, lead he to an hotel

grill-room.



the young man pause before the large, open grid and carefully

indicate the chop which he consider suitable for his consumption.

he then seat himself opposite his two friend and express himself

in favour of a mixed vermouth.



"a very pleasing encounter, this," he declare, draw the eightpence

from his pocket and look at it thoughtfully.  "may I ask, sir,

whether you be acquaint with my poem?"



"not yet," Harvey Grimm confess.



"your purchase, then, be accidental?"



"entirely," his patron explain.  "my friend and I be adventurer.

we seek the unusual.  the appearance of the shop where we meet you

attract we.  the young lady to whom we address some enquiry

tender we a copy of your verse."



the young man sigh.



"it be a scandalous thing," he say, "to be publish in paper cover

at eightpence--fourpence to the author.  so you be adventurer.  you

mean by that thief?"



"Sir," Aaron Rodd interrupt, "I be a solicitor."



"my ignorance," the young man declare, "be amazing, but that, I

presume, be a legalised form of robbery?  I be one of the few person

in the world who give value for the money I earn.  I produce, create.

if only ten thousand people in the city be to pay eightpence for a

copy of my work, I should be affluent, as you two be.  I should lunch

here every day and drink Burgundy."



"then in a very short time," Harvey Grimm remind he, "you would

cease to write poetry."



his protégé shake his head.



"a well-nurture body be an incentive to poetic thought," he insist.

"there be a richness of imagery which come with after-dinner

composing; a sort of mental starvation, an anæmic scantiness of

simile, which follow the fruit luncheon and cold water of necessity.

adventurer, gentleman, be you?  that be to say you be people with

wit.  tell I, then--bring I an idea from the practical world--how

shall I make ten thousand people buy a copy of my poem?"



"come, that's an interesting problem," Harvey Grimm declare.  "of

course, if one be to answer you in a single word, that one would be

advertisement."



"if I could write my name across the heaven, or flash it from a

million light through the cloud," the young man remark, "I would do

so, but these thing call for either miraculous power or money.  I

have neither."



"your case," Harvey Grimm promise, "shall have our attention, my

friend's and mine.  in the meantime, the moment seem opportune,

pende the arrival of our chop, for a glance at your work.  permit

I."



the poetaster cross his leg, lean back in his chair, thrust an

eyeglass into his eye, and turn over the page of the paper volume

which he have be carry.  Aaron Rodd follow his example.  the

poet, entirely unembarrassed, eyed hungrily each cover dish which

pass.  at the arrival of the meal, Harvey Grimm solemnly pocket his

book and replace his eyeglass.  Aaron Rodd go on read for a

moment.  then he glance surreptitiously at their guest and lay his

volume face downwards upon the table.



"your poem, I perceive," Harvey Grimm observe, as he help himself

to a potato, "be not write for the man in the street."



"they be write," the poet declare, fall hungrily upon his chop,

"for any one who will pay eightpence for they."



Conversation fade away.  it be not until the service of coffee and

cigar that anything more than disjoint word be speak.  the young

man's face be still colourless but his eye be less hard.  he take

out his pencil and toy for a moment with the menu.



"some little trifle," he suggest, "commemorative of the occasion?"



"I would rather," Harvey Grimm confess, "think out some scheme for

advertise your work.  there's a little thing here about a lame

'busman----"



"any scheme you suggest," the young man assent dreamily. "I frankly

admit that the dispersal of my production be a matter in which I have

fail.  the appreciative few may have purchase but the man of the day

pass on, ignorant of the great need he really have of poetry.  ten

thousand copy of my poem, sell in London, would produce at once a

more gracious spirit.  you would observe a difference in the

deportment, the speech, the great altruism of the multitude.  how

shall I force my work into their hand and their eightpence into my

pocket?"



"fourpence only," Aaron Rodd remind he.  "the publisher get half."



"in the event of a large circulation," the poet point out, with a

wave of the hand, "well term might be arrive at.  you, as a legal

man, can appreciate that possibility."



"there be only one idea which occur to I," Harvey Grimm declare,

after a brief pause.  "come and we will make an experiment."



they march out into the street and walk solemnly along towards

Leicester Square.  suddenly Harvey Grimm stop short and accost a

small, grey-haired man who be carry a bag and walk quickly.



"I beg your pardon, sir," the former begin.



"what be it?" the little man demand.



Harvey Grimm take he gently by the lapel of his coat.  the little man

seem too surprised to resist.



"I want the privilege of a few minute' conversation with you," harvey

Grimm continue.  "you be one of the uneducated ten thousand who, on

behalf of my friend here, Stephen Cresswell, the great poet, I be

anxious to reach.  have you read Cresswell's poem?"



"I be in a hurry," the little man insist, gaze at his interlocutor

in a bewildered manner, and struggle to escape.



"the whole world be in a hurry," Harvey Grimm observe, draw the

paper volume from his pocket with the other hand.  "this volume of

poem will cost you eightpence.  it will bring relief to its

impoverished author, you yourself will become an enlightened----"



"I wish you'd let I go," the little man protest angrily.  "I don't

know you, and I don't want to stand about the street, talk to a

stranger.  let I go or I'll call a policeman."



"a policeman can afford you no assistance," Harvey Grimm assure he.

"I shall remain polite but insistent.  you will buy this volume of

poem for eightpence, or----"



"or what?" his victim demand.



Harvey Grimm lean down and whisper in his ear.  the little man's

hand shoot into his pocket.  he produce sixpence and two copper,

snatch at the book and hurry off.  the victor in this little

rencontre turn to his companion with an air of triumph and hand

the eightpence to the poet, who immediately pocket it.



"the whole problem be solve," he declare.



"you be a great man, sir," the poet exclaim, grasp he by the

hand, "but what be it you whisper in his ear?"



"I simply tell he," Harvey Grimm say blandly, "that I should biff he

one.  the cost of a new hat be ten and sixpence; the price of your

poem be eightpence."



"you be a great man, sir," the poet repeat heartily.  "watch the

newspaper."



      *      *      *      *      *



with a bunch of early violet in his buttonhole, neatly and correctly

dress from the crown of his hat to his patent boot, Mr. Harvey

Grimm, one morning about a fortnight later, turn down the narrow

street which lead to his friend Aaron Rodd's office.  he take a few

step and pause in surprise.  a little crowd encumber the pavement

in front of he.  there be at least half a dozen taxicab wait by

the side of the pavement.  a printer's van be busy unload.  a

constant procession, consist chiefly of elderly and middle-aged man,

be enter and leave the little book-shop.  wait his turn,

Harvey Grimm step in.  the whole of the central table be take up

by great pile of a little paper-cover volume, recognisable at once

as the Poetical Works of Stephen Cresswell, and as fast as the flow of

customer could be serve, they depart with one or more copy in

their pocket.  the young lady whose hair be more untidy than ever,

and who wear a stupefied air, dole they out in doll-like and

mechanical fashion.  she have lose her air of superiority.  she point

no long to the sketch upon the wall or the pottery beyond.  she

behave like a daze automaton.  now and then Harvey Grimm could hear

her reply to enquiry.



"there will be a cloth edition of Mr. Cresswell's work out in a few

day," she say.  "the printer have promise they by the end of the

week."



in the background be two very obvious newspaper man, wait so far

unsuccessfully to get in a word with she.  Mr. Harvey Grimm elbow his

way by some mean or other into the line, pay his eightpence and

retire into the recess of the little suite of room beyond for a

moment's breathing-space.  a rush of at least a dozen old gentleman have

make exit temporarily impossible.  as he stand and watch the scene,

he be conscious of a fashionably dress young man lounge in an easy

chair a few yard away.  the young man suddenly arise.



"my benefactor!" he cry.



Harvey Grimm grip his copy of poem tightly and hold it up.



"Pax!" he exclaim.  "I have one."



the poet smile wearily.  he draw his erstwhile patron a little far

back into the most retired portion of the premise.



"listen," he say, "this have be the most stupendous, the most

colossal joke of the day.  on the first night I sandbag a wholesale

provision merchant who admit that he have never read my poem, and he

write to _the Times_ the next morning.  I make myself objectionable to

seven other the follow night.  they, too, make various complaint.

after that I retire--their description of my identity be become

embarrassing."



Mr. Harvey Grimm be a little puzzle.



"but the thing have be go on right up till last night," he

declare.  "the paper for day have be a source of joy to I."



"after the first few night," the young man explain, "I be compel

to engage substitute.  I have acquaintance whose life have be

spend--shall we say on the fringe of thing?  with their aid I make the

acquaintance of various professional gentleman from the east end, who

for a suitable remuneration take up this business with avidity.  they

be of all size and they operate in all locality, choose their

victim, so far as possible, with discretion.  there be but one

question--'Have you read the poem of Stephen Cresswell?'--generally a

bewildered negative and then biff!  the people begin frantically to

enquire who be Stephen Cresswell, where be his poem to be obtain?

People who have the slight pretension to literary knowledge be

assail with question.  _Punch_----"



"I see _punch_," Mr. Harvey Grimm interrupt.  "very clever!"



"then the stream begin," the young man continue.  "I can assure you

that from the opening time till dark this place be mob.  you see, on

the third night a confederate be save from an imaginary assault by

promptly produce a copy of my poem.  he write to the paper in mock

indignation but describe his escape.  then the rush begin.  Eleven

thousand copy have be sell, some at a premium.  eleven thousand

fourpence have find their way into my pocket.  a morocco-bind and

vellum-cover edition be wait in the press for one thing."



"and that?"



"the name of my benefactor.  I wish to dedicate the third, fourth and

fifth edition of my poem to you," the young man declare

grandiloquently.



Mr. Harvey Grimm ponder.



"it be an immense compliment," he acknowledge.  "we will talk of it."



"in the meantime," the poet go on, "listen.  the curse of these day

be jealousy and imitation.  a young man of worthy upbringing but wholly

ignorant of art, who perpetrate the daub which you see upon the wall

here, be strike with my success.  only last Thursday an elderly

gentleman, such a one as might have be select by my own employés,

be stop in Hampstead and ask whether he have see the sketch of

Sidney Wentworth, display in Manchester Street, Adelphi.  the fool

admit that he have never hear of they and down he go.  I ask you,

sir, be there ever a more flagrant case of spoil a man's market?

from the moment this absurd affair be report, public feeling have

begin to change.  curiously enough, there have be very small

resentment, even on the part of those who have suffer slight pain in

the cause of art, as to my method.  now, however, that the idea have

commence to spread that such mean be become a regular curriculum

of the advertiser, I have notice distinct expression of indignation.

in plain word, I can see the end come."



"nothing last," Mr. Harvey Grimm point out, "and you must admit

you've have a run for your money."



"I've have more than that, sir," the poet admit.  "I be establish.

many of the lead periodical of the day, include _titbit_ and the

_London Mail_, have invite I to contribute to their page.  the

Society of Authors have make I a tempting proposition to join their

rank.  you may look upon I, sir, as a man whose future be now

assure."



"I be delighted to hear it," Mr. Harvey Grimm declare heartily.  "I

fear I must now be get on."



the young man take down, his hat, possess himself of a pair of

expensive doeskin glove and a silver-top cane.



"I will let you out by the back way," he suggest.  "it be my desire

to accompany you."



"I be go to call upon a friend in the neighbourhood," Harvey Grimm

remark.



"the friend with whom I meet you first?"



"the same."



"I shall accompany you," the young man announce, cautiously open a

side door and peer up and down a stone-flagged passage.  "the way be

clear, sir.  come with I."



they sally out and find themselves in the street.  the young man

grip the arm of his companion.



"for the moment," he confess, "I be weary of poetry.  I seek life.

you be an adventurer, you have tell I.  I shall link my fortune with

your.  you have a brain, sir, enterprise, and I should imagine that

you be untrammelle by the modern conscience.  I be in the same

position.  Poetry be afford I, for some time, at least, the mean

of sustenance.  let we go together a little far afield."



the old man look his companion up and down.  he be a strong,

well-build young fellow, and the hollow of his cheek have already

fill out.  notwithstanding his mannerism, he be without doubt a

young man of resolution.



"we will see," Harvey Grimm suggest, "what Aaron Rodd have to say

about it."



"I like your friend's name," the young man declare solemnly.  "I be

sure that he will accept I as a comrade."



they trod the few remain yard of pavement, ascend the stone

stair, and, after a preliminary knock at the door, Harvey Grimm,

exercise the privilege of familiarity, turn the handle and step

inside, follow by his companion.  for a single moment neither of they

speak.  Harvey Grimm's first conscious action be to close the door

behind he.  then they stand inside the apartment, transfix.  around

they be a scene of the wild disorder.  the linoleum have be tear

up and throw into a corner, plank have be tear bodily from the

floor, the cupboard stand open and their content be throw right

and leave.  the little row of tin box stand on their side, and masse

of dusty parchment litter the whole place.  seat in his chair

before the desk be Aaron Rodd, with a gag in his mouth, his arm bind

behind he, his leg tie together.  his face be livid, his eye half

close.  he show no sign of life at their coming.  the poet produce

a knife.



"we must set he free," he say.



his companion, subconsciously amazed at the young man's initiative,

follow he to the desk.  methodically the latter, having remove the

gag from Aaron Rodd's mouth, cut the bond which hold he, one by one.

Harvey Grimm produce a small brandy flask and hold it to his lip.

the poet throw open a window and swing the chair round.  Aaron Rodd

groan.



"he be come to," Cresswell remark hopefully.



he catch up a sheaf of newspaper and fan the swoon man

vigorously.  then he suddenly pause.  Harvey Grimm follow the

direction of his gaze.  a sheet of violet-colour note-paper be

pin upon the desk.  the poet sniff.



"what a delicious odour!" he murmur.  "and how familiar!"



they both approach a little nearer.  the sheet of note-paper,

flutter a little in the breeze which stream through the window,

give out the subtle and most delicate perfume, a perfume which seem

like a waft from a field of violet, carry on a west wind.  there

be only a few word, write in a delicate feminine handwriting:--





    "_should there not be honour, even amongst thief?_"





the young man strike a theatrical attitude.



"Fate have send I to join you," he declare, wave his hand towards

the sheet of violet-colour paper.  "I recognise the handwriting.  I

know well the perfume.  I can tell you who write that note."









_Chapter III_  _an Alliance of Thieves_



Aaron Rodd be walk along the, to he, unfamiliar thoroughfare of

Bond Street when he be suddenly confront with a vision.  a large

limousine motor-car be draw up just in front of he.  an elderly lady

with white hair, lean upon the arm of a powdered footman, cross

the pavement, follow by a girl who be smother in sable, carry a

small dog under her arm, and wear a great bunch of violet partially

conceal by her fur.  Aaron Rodd's abrupt pause be not one of

politeness alone.  with an eagerness which take no account of manner

or discretion, he gaze at the girl, open-eye, open-mouthed, blankly,

unashamed.  if anything be leave to complete his bewilderment, it be

the little smile upon her lip as she meet his eye.



"good afternoon, Mr. Aaron Rodd!" she murmur, as she pass.



she disappear through the swing door of the shop.  Aaron stare

after she as though expect a backward glance, stare at the very

handsome motor-car, at what appear to be a coronet upon the panel, at

the imperturbable expression of the powdered footman, stand with a

rug over his arm, look into vacancy.  then he limp on a few foot

and devote himself to an absorbed contemplation of some japanese

trifle in a curio shop.



he lose count of time in his firm determination to await her return.

as a matter of fact, it be only a few minute before he be conscious

of her reappearance.  she hesitate for a moment on the threshold of

the shop, shake her head at the footman who be already open the

door of the car, and approach Aaron Rodd.  he turn abruptly from

the window and greet she with grave politeness.  she glance at his

leave arm, still in a sling; at the heavy walking-stick by which he

support himself.



"good afternoon, Mr. Rodd," she say.  "you have meet, perhaps, with a

little accident?  it be so?"



"your friend be a little rough," he reply.



"I shall be annoy with they," she promise.  "you receive my

message?"



"certainly," he reply.  "on the whole I agree with you."



she shrug her shoulder.



"and what be you do in Bond Street?" she ask he.



"I be on my way to meet my friend Harvey Grimm."



she nod.



"that be your clever confederate, who steal our diamond," she remark

suavely.



"a very fortunate circumstance for you," he venture to remind she.

"if that stone--the real one, I mean--have be discover in your

possession at the police-station, I fancy that your position in this

country would have become a little difficult."



"oh, la, la!" she laugh.  "you should have see the face of Mr.

Brodie though, when they examine the imitation stone!  I do not think

that the english police be pleased with he.  they be very kind to

my grandfather and I."



"nevertheless," he advise, "if I be your brother, I think that I

would keep away from London just now."



"and why?"



Aaron Rodd glance up and down the pavement to be sure that there be

no listener.



"that fellow Brodie be not such a fool as he seem," he declare.  "he

have make one mistake.  I do not think that he be likely to make

another."



she laugh.



"if it be to be a duel of wit," she murmur, "between Leopold and Mr.

Brodie, do you know, I believe that Leopold will win."



"there be such a thing as over-confidence," he remind she.



"I have so many way," she tell he, with twinkle eye, "of divert

these people from the scent.  do you recognise the old lady upon whom I

be in attendance to-day, the old lady who go with I into that shop?"



"I have not that pleasure," he reply grimly.  "be she one of the

gang?"



"she be a royal princess--the Princess Augusta.  if you do not believe

I, look in this week's _Tatler_ and you will see her picture--perhaps

mine.  you be a very funny man, Mr. Aaron Rodd, and you have treat

we very badly indeed, but I like you--yes, I like you quite well.  how

much money do you get for that stone you steal from we?"



the colour mount mercilessly to his temple.  he seem suddenly

bereft of word.



"do not be foolish," she continue quickly.  "really, as you know, I be

an adventuress myself, and I rather admire you both.  I think that we

ought to make friend.  you could be of great service to we.  there be

no need for we to quarrel because you have have the good of this first

little exchange.  what do you say to that, my friend?"



Aaron Rodd find himself and become once more a man.  he look she

squarely in the eye.



"I would rather be friend with you," he say, "than any one in the

world."



for a moment the triumph be his.  it be she who be almost

embarrassed by his directness.  then intervention come.



"ah!" she exclaim, "the Princess!  Au revoir!"



she step lightly away from he, with a little nod of farewell.  the

footman stand bare-headed as he open the door of the car.  one of the

principal of the establishment which the grey-haired lady have just

quit stand bow upon the pavement.  in the face of all this, the

girl turn deliberately around and wave her hand as the car drive

off.  Aaron Rodd limp down Bond Street, call for a taxi and drive

to the Milan Court....



his two auditor listen to Aaron Rodd's story with varying

expression--the poet with pleased and affable sympathy; Harvey Grimm,

on the other hand, with obvious irritation.  they be seat in a

corner of the smoke-room and the latter at once despatch a waiter for

a copy of the _Tatler_.  when it arrive, they all three pore over one

of the lead illustration.  there be no doubt whatever in the mind

of any of the three man as to the identity of the girl who be depict

as be amongst the lady-in-waiting of a royal personage.



"that," the poet declare, "be a young lady whose name be Henriette de

Floge.  she have an underhand service at Badminton and she want to

learn to be a futurist.  she attend a class last year, organise by

an artist friend of mine in Chelsea.  Ye god!"



"that, without a single doubt," Aaron Rodd assent, lay his

forefinger upon the illustration, "be the young lady who be in

attendance this afternoon upon the Princess Augusta."



"and it be equally and absolutely and conclusively certain," harvey

Grimm pronounce, "that she come to Manchester Street, Adelphi, as the

confederate of Jeremiah Sands."



"who," the poet ask eagerly, "be Jeremiah Sands?  I like the name."



"Jeremiah Sands," Harvey Grimm tell he, "be the head and brain of the

small but most formidable band of criminal who have ever succeed

in elude justice for nearly ten year.  there be a reward of

twenty-five thousand dollar for his arrest in America, and he be

want in most of the capital of Europe.  he have a dozen alias and a

score of personality.  this much about he be certain.  he be either

of belgian or french birth, he be a young man, and he have spend the

great part of the last seven year in America.  the universal excuse

give by the police of every country for their failure to apprehend

he, be that for at any rate the last five year he have simply

accumulate his booty and have make no effort to dispose of it.  as you

know, most of the thief of the world be trace backwards through the

receiver of steal good.  his last exploit in New York be the theft

of the Van Hutten jewel.  it be, without a doubt, one of those

diamond which be mislay in Aaron Rodd's office, and it be one of

Jeremiah Sands' agent who pay our friend here that last domiciliary

visit in search of it."



"what, by the by, become of that diamond?" the poet enquire.



"we be live upon it," Mr. Harvey Grimm confess.



the poet sigh enviously.



"it be a beautiful existence," he declare.  "when be we go to

embark upon another adventure of the sort?"



"the aftermath of the last one be still envelop we," Mr. Harvey

Grimm remind he.  "there be Scotland Yard, who have see the

imitation stone and who suspect we of change it.  then there be Mr.

Jeremiah Sands, who know that we do, and who be only just begin

to realise that we have be clever enough to dispose of it.  finally,

there be Mr. Brodie, the amateur detective, who have the same idea and

who be furious with we for let he down with the authority.

between the three, you see, our position be a little difficult.

personally, I be much interested in our friend Aaron's account of his

conversation with the young lady.  her suggestion of some measure of

alliance appeal to I."



"and I," the poet agree.  "let we approach they at once.  I should

like to come into contact with this Jeremiah Sands."



there be a brief interval whilst a waiter deposit before they a tray

of cocktail, subtly order by the poet by mean of sundry evolution

with his forefinger.  afterwards, Mr. Harvey Grimm sit for a few

moment in silence, smooth out his immaculate doeskin glove.



"listen," he say presently, after a cautious glance around the room,

"I will tell you my impression.  Jeremiah Sands have never be catch,

for two reason--first, because he have store up all his booty and have

never be in the hand of the receiver; secondly, because he have

hiding-place in every capital of Europe, all of they safe than London

or New York.  at the present moment he be like a rabbit which have be

ferret out of its hole.  Europe be suddenly close to he.  he have

be drive to London.  he be ill at ease here.  he have lose many of

his agent.  to maintain his belgian nationality he have be force

into the army.  the perfect machinery of his wonderful system must be

seriously dislocate.  the time, too, have probably arrive when he

find it necessary to dispose of some of his plunder.  let we offer he

a tentative amity."



Aaron Rodd frown.



"do you think that he would trust we after that last little affair?  I

don't mind be the thief or the thief-catcher," he add bluntly,

"but I rather hate be the third party."



"the only party we have to consider be ourselves," Harvey Grimm reply

deliberately.  "to tell you the truth, I fear that we have lose the

confidence of Paul Brodie.  I be not sure whether it would be worth our

while to try and regain it.  the sharing of reward be a poor game.  I

would rather hear what Jeremiah Sands have to say."



he take up his pencil and scrawl a few line across a half sheet of

note-paper.  they both look over his shoulder:--





    "_if the young lady with violet would like to resume her

    conversation with a certain person in Bond Street this morning,

    please reply in Friday's 'Telegraph.'_"





"I propose," Mr. Harvey Grimm explain, "to insert this in to-morrow

morning's _Telegraph_, to send a copy to Mr. Brinnen and await result."



"Brilliant!" the poet exclaim.  "it give the proper flavour to the

whole thing.  but why not write a note and send it up by the waiter?"



Mr. Harvey Grimm smile.



"my young friend," he say, "you be an adventurer of the bull-dog

type.  let I tell you this.  I happen to know it to be a fact.  from

the moment when Mr. Paul Brodie communicate his suspicion as to our

friend, to Scotland Yard, their every movement, and without doubt

their correspondence, have be closely watch.  I will guarantee to

you that not a letter be deliver to either Captain Leopold Brinnen,

to Mr. Brinnen or to the young lady, which do not run a very

considerable risk of be open."



the poet listen with a pleased smile.



"I like the flavour of this sort of thing," he acknowledge.  "let we

insert the advertisement, by all mean.  if the young lady suggest a

meeting, I shall recommend myself as the most suitable person to keep

the appointment."



      *      *      *      *      *



soon after midday, two morning later, Mr. Stephen Cresswell enter

the smoking-room at the Milan.  he be carry a _Daily Telegraph_

under his arm, he wear a bunch of violet in his buttonhole, and he be

dress with great care.  he approach the table where Harvey Grimm

and Aaron Rodd be await he.



"you, too, have see the answer to our advertisement?" he exclaim.

"Capital!"



"we be just now discuss it," Harvey Grimm assent.



the poet sit down, make sign to the waiter, hitch up his trouser

and make himself thoroughly comfortable.



"I have decide," he announce, "that I be the proper person to

entertain the young lady."



Harvey Grimm nod thoughtfully.



"tell we through what channel of thought, my young friend, you have

arrive at that conclusion?" he beg.



the poet straighten his tie.  there be no doubt that he be a

remarkably good-look young man.



"I be a modest person," he say, "but it be useless to deny that nature

have be kind to I.  then, too, there be a peculiar and romantic

importance attach to the successful poet whose reputation have be

enhance in so singular a fashion.  the young lady will be interested

in I from the start.  she will be proud to remember that we be old

acquaintance, and she will treat I with great confidence than any

ordinary person."



Harvey Grimm light a cigarette deliberately.  Aaron Rodd's heavy eyebrow

seem to have contract a little.



"why be you so sure that it will be the young lady who will keep the

appointment?" the former enquire.



Stephen Cresswell place his forefinger upon the advertisement in the

paper which he have be carrying:--





    _Milan Café, luncheon,_ 1.15 _Wednesday.  will discuss.  Bond

    Street._





"that tell we nothing," Harvey Grimm point out.  "so far as the

probability be concern, I should say that it be extremely unlikely

that either the young lady or any of those associate with she will

keep the appointment.  any negotiation we may have will probably be

conduct through a third party."



the poet's face fall.  he order another cocktail brusquely.



"how shall we know whom to look out for, then?" he demand.



"the onus of recognition will rest with the other," Harvey Grimm

reply.  "I have engage a table just inside the door.  we shall take

our place there before one-fifteen and await the arrival of whoever

may come."



"in case it should be the young lady," the poet persist, "you would

find that my previous acquaintance with she would be of immense service

to we.  she would place confidence in I."



"you shall be of the party," Harvey Grimm promise.  "I have order

the table for five, so as to be on the safe side.  I do not understand

our friend select a place for a meeting, but, on the other hand,

there be a flavour of genius in such apparent recklessness.  if you be

ready, I think it be time that we make a start."



they stroll down to the café and take their place at a table just

inside the door.  at precisely a quarter past one a little tremor of

excitement suddenly unloose their tongue.



"my God!" Harvey Grimm mutter.



"they must be mad!" Aaron Rodd whisper, in a hoarse undertone.



"it be Henriette de Floge," Stephen Cresswell murmur complacently.

"you will perceive soon the advantage of my presence."



the girl approach their table smilingly.  she be follow by the

young officer in belgian uniform.  the three man rise to their foot.

she smile pleasantly at Aaron Rodd.



"you have not yet meet my brother, have you?" she ask.  "let I

present Captain Leopold Brinnen--Mr. Aaron Rodd, Mr. Harvey Grimm,

and----"



she pause, with her eye fix questioningly upon the poet.  the young

officer have bring his heel together and bow ceremoniously to the

two man.



"I be not, I hope, forget," the poet observe.  "my name be Stephen

Cresswell.  I have have the pleasure of play Badminton with you in

Walter Donne's studio."



she look across at he with slightly upraised eyebrow, the faint

tracing of a somewhat insolent smile at the corner of her lip.



"Badminton?  be that an english game?  I perceive that I have a double.

I have not play it."



"you be Mademoiselle de Floge?" the poet persist.



she shake her head gently.



"on the contrary," she reply, "I be Henriette Brinnen.  Leopold, this

be Mr. Stephen Cresswell."



they all take their place, the poet a little heavily.  his

stupefaction, even though it proceed from a different cause, be only

a little less profound than that of the other two.  Mr. Harvey Grimm

take up the menu once more and give a few murmur order to the

_maître d'hôtel_.  Aaron Rodd, who be on her right-hand side, lean

towards the girl.  his face be almost haggard with anxiety.



"forgive I," he whisper, "but be this wise?  have you count the

cost of it?"



"I do not understand," she answer, a little vaguely.



"you know that we be all watch," he remind she.  "we think it

well even not to communicate with you direct."



"you three be such droll man," she laugh.  "there be your

nice-look friend, Mr. Stephen Cresswell, who sit there and will not

take his eye off I.  he do not believe that he have never meet I

before.  and Mr. Harvey Grimm--well, he do not seem a nervous person,

do he, and just now he be almost pale.  and you, too--you speak with

bated breath of risk and be watch.  how, then, do you carry

through your great coup, my friend?  have you not learn the first

axiom of the adventurer--there be nothing which dispel suspicion so

readily as candour?"



Aaron Rodd shrug his shoulder and busy himself with the task of

attend to his companion's want.  conversation around the little

table become platitudinal.  the three man, although they behave in all

respect reasonably, be unable to keep their thought and attention

from wander continually towards their slim, grave-looking young

guest in his somewhat battered uniform, who seem chiefly engross

with his luncheon.  it be hard to believe that he sit there in one of

the well-know restaurant in the world, with a great price upon his

head.  in some respect he be like his sister, Aaron Rodd decide,

although there be a curious virility of expression which flash

sometimes into his feature, and a more calculate light in his hard,

clear eye.  his mouth be unusually long, straight and thin, his

cheekbone a little high.  one could believe that, notwithstanding his

inconsiderable stature, his frame be like steel.  he speak English

very deliberately, with now and then the slight american accent, but

on the few occasion when he address his sister it seem to be a

relief for he to relapse into French.  it be not until the coffee be

serve that he lean a little towards Harvey Grimm and dispel by a

few word the atmosphere of unreality which have somehow or other

hover over the little luncheon-party.



"Sir," he propose, "let we approach the object of this meeting."



"with pleasure," Harvey Grimm assent.



"for some reason or other," the young man continue, "my sister,

although, as we know to our cost, her acquaintance with you so far have

not be altogether profitable, have confidence in you.  let we speak

frankly.  you gentleman, I believe, be what be generally know as

_chevalier d'Industrie_?"



there be a sudden flush of colour in Aaron Rodd's cheek.  the poet,

who be a little sullen, distinctly scowl.  only Harvey Grimm bow

placidly, seemingly unconscious of the faint note of contempt in the

other's tone.



"in the ordinary sense of the word, that be true," he admit.



"consider, then, our position," the young man continue.  "my

grandfather and sister, whom I meet again after an absence of some

year, owe to the haste with which they be compel to leave

Belgium, be almost penniless.  my own--saving consist of perhaps half

a million pound' worth of diamond.  these jewel," he go on,

knock the ash from his cigarette, "have all be steal.  they can

only be dispose of in an irregular fashion.  that be to say, the

stone must be recut.  in normal time, this problem would present no

difficulty to I.  to-day, when London be the only capital of Europe

open to we, I must admit that I find myself in a difficult position.

the few artificer in this country be, I understand, well know and

watch.  I be bind, therefore, to employ an agent.  under the

peculiar circumstance to which I have allude, I cannot seek for an

honest man.  I be prepared to make it worth the while of man such as

yourself to deal honestly with I."



"my brother have your english gift of plain speech, you see," the girl

whisper soothingly to Aaron Rodd.



the young officer light a fresh cigarette and watch the smoke curl

upward for a moment.



"surely it be good?" he say softly.  "these gentleman be at the

present moment living, and living, no doubt, exceedingly well, upon the

proceed of one of my diamond.  they should not, therefore, be

sensitive."



"I may be allow to remind you, sir," Harvey Grimm interrupt, "that,

incidentally, the little artifice by mean of which we secure it be

responsible for your unhindered presence here to-day."



"I take that fact into consideration," Leopold Brinnen assent, "in

the toleration with which I view the circumstance.  the point be, be

you willing to deal with I?"



"I be perfectly willing to do so, sir," Harvey Grimm reply.  "I be

willing, too, and so, I be sure, be my friend, to take a certain

amount of risk.  I may add that I be probably the only man in England

who can dispose of your jewel so that they cannot be trace, but

before we proceed far, let I ask you a question.  be you aware,

sir, of your position?  there be an amateur detective here from New

York, name Paul Brodie, who have no other object in life than to lay

his hand upon a certain person.  Scotland Yard, although just now they

be a little feed up with Mr. Brodie, have very definite intention with

regard to the same person.  you be live here openly.  you be even

flaunt your well-know belgian uniform.  there be eye upon we as

we sit at this table.  there be eye upon you and your sister and your

grandfather, from the moment you rise in the morning till the moment

you retire at night.  your room be at all time subject or liable to

be search.  any place you might visit be liable to be search.  let

I ask you, then, a plain question.  More than any other quality I

admire courage.  don't you think, however, that you be play a

little too near to the fire?"



the young officer stroke his thin black moustache.  he have listen to

Harvey Grimm's word attentively.  he even indicate, in the slow

movement of his head, some measure of approbation.



"to all that you have say, Mr. Harvey Grimm, I can make you only one

reply," he say.  "every step which I have take in life have be

carefully think out.  the present position, although necessity have

here intervene to some extent, have be subject to the same attentive

consideration.  I be safe than you think.  let that be enough.  that I

have friend be prove by the little visitation which be make upon Mr.

Aaron Rodd the other day.  I offer you no apology, sir," he

continue, bow across the table.  "it be part of the game.  when we

thrust the law outside our life, as you have do and I, then we must

take our knock philosophically.  for the future, however, even though

we play the thief' game, there be no reason why we should not play it

honestly."



"a very admirable sentiment," the poet murmur.



"to put this matter upon a business basis, Mr. Grimm," Captain Brinnen

continue, "suppose I supply you with a certain quantity of diamond,

will you guarantee to have they cut as so to render they

unrecognisable, dispose of they, hand I two-third of the proceed and

retain a third yourself?"



"I have work before upon those term," Harvey Grimm reply.  "I

accept they.  there be one little matter, though, to be clear up."



Captain Brinnen smile grimly.



"I fancy that I follow you," he observe.  "you refer to the mysterious

disappearance of a diamond from your friend's office?"



Harvey Grimm cough.



"bear in mind, as I take the liberty of point out a few minute

ago, that its disappearance save you from considerable

inconvenience----" he begin.



"the affair be finish," Brinnen interrupt.  "carry out faithfully

the other transaction which we may arrange, and we will adopt--shall I

say a resign attitude?--with regard to that incident.  when be you

prepared to deal with the first parcel of stone?"



"at any moment," Harvey Grimm promise.  "you will bring they to I?"



the girl, who have be listen eagerly to their conversation, lean

across the table.



"I think," she say, "that this time you have well come and fetch

they, Mr. Grimm, or, well still--send Mr. Aaron Rodd."



"or I," the poet suggest.



she shake her head.



"it be to be Mr. Aaron Rodd," she decide.  "you will not be afraid?"

she add, turn towards he with a little smile at the corner of

her lip.



"where be I to come to, and when?" he enquire.



she glance at her brother, then back again towards her neighbour.



"I shall tell you presently," she whisper.



the little party break up shortly afterwards.  the hall outside, where

they linger to make their adieux, be unusually crowd.  harvey

Grimm feel a touch upon his elbow.



"a pleasant luncheon, I trust?"



he frown as he recognise Brodie, who be apparently wait for a

friend.  it be exactly the meeting which he have desire to avoid.  he

greet he, however, with his customary geniality.



"lunch late, ben't you?" he observe.



Brodie seem scarcely to hear he.  his eye be fix upon the young

Belgian, who, with his arm in a sling, be be help carefully into

his overcoat.  suddenly, however, he stretch out his arm, lay it

upon Harvey Grimm's shoulder and draw he to within whispering distance.



"see here, Harvey," he mutter, "I don't know what game you're

play, but if any man try to boost I, he's go to have a rough

journey."



Harvey Grimm be shock.



"my dear fellow!----" he begin.



"don't waste your breath," the other interrupt, as he turn away.

"remember I've get my eye on you, as well as our friend there.  it may

be a waiting game, but you'll find I there at the finish, sure as my

name's Paul Brodie."



he stride off towards the telephone booth.  Harvey Grimm find his hand

grip by his guest.



"my sister and I thank you for a very excellent luncheon, Mr. Grimm,"

Captain Brinnen say politely.  "I trust that you will soon give we an

opportunity of repay your hospitality."



"you will come to I," the girl whisper in Aaron Rodd's ear, "at

number thirteen, Grosvenor Square, this afternoon at five o'clock...."



the poet be incline to be peevish as the three man walk down the

Strand.



"in this adventure," he declare, "I do not see where I come in.  Aaron

Rodd be to go and fetch the diamond, and probably have tea with the

beautiful young lady who have change her name, and you," he go on,

address Harvey Grimm, "thereupon vanish with the stone to your

mysterious treasure-house and return with the gold.  I be simply not in

it.  I might as well not exist."



"it be regrettable but true," Harvey Grimm assent.  "remember,

however, that you be a self-invite new-comer to our little circle.  a

place shall be find for you presently.  I can promise you that the

cycle of our adventure will not be end with the realisation of

Jeremiah Sands' diamond.  this affair, unfortunately, present no

opportunity for your activity.  I do not propose, even, to offer you

more than a trifling share in the financial result."



"Financially," the poet announce airily, "I be independent.  the taste

for my poetry have spread like a forest fire.  there will be a trifle of

mine, by the by, in the _Pall Mall_ to-night.  don't forget to look out

for it."



Harvey Grimm for once be unsympathetic.



"look here," he say, stop suddenly, "I wish you'd forget your

poetry for a few minute.  there be just one way you can make yourself

useful.  you see a sleek, podgy, bulky, fat-face looking man, with

hair brush back, who speak to I in the hall at the Milan?"



the poet nod.



"I remember," he murmur, "wish that you would allow I to edit

your acquaintance."



"that man," Harvey Grimm continue, "be Paul Brodie, an amateur

detective.  he have set himself the task of bring about the arrest of

Jeremiah Sands.  he come to Europe with that idea.  it be he who have

the old gentleman and his daughter take to the police-station from my

room.  we have be work together, but he's out with we now, and he

blame we for that fiasco.  I should like to know why he be still

hang about the Milan Court."



"I will return there," the poet promise.  "I will endeavour to engage

he in conversation."



Harvey Grimm smile pityingly.



"oh, my ingenuous youth!" he murmur.  "your idea of tackle a

detective be bright and engaging, yet, do your good.  the very

imbecility of your method may lead to success.  I should very much

like to know where Paul Brodie be propose to spend this afternoon."



Cresswell nod in mysterious fashion and leave they.  Harvey Grimm

pass his arm through his friend's, as they turn into the little

street which lead down to Aaron's Rodd's office.



"Aaron," he say earnestly, "if your little expedition this afternoon

should by any chance involve you in any manner of trouble, remember

that there's one golden motto--silence.  you make a cult of it in

private life.  if anything should happen to you--don't depart from it."



      *      *      *      *      *



at precisely the appoint hour, Aaron Rodd be show by a footman in

deep black livery into a small but charmingly-furnish room in the

large house which he have ever enter.  on his way thither he have

catch the sound of many voice, laugh and talk, the tinkling of

teacup, the scraping of a violin.  evidently some sort of reception

be in progress, for outside a canvas shelter be stretch to the

curbstone, and a long row of automobile and carriage be in evidence.

it be almost ten minute before the door be abruptly open and

Henriette Brinnen appear.  she have change her clothe since

luncheon, and be wear a gown of some soft grey material, and a

large hat with black feather.  in her hand she be carry a small

brown paper package, seal at both end.  the little smile with which

she welcome he be bewilder.



"I have keep you wait," she exclaim, "and I must send you away

again quickly!  believe I, I be not always so inhospitable.  this

afternoon, as it happen, Madame be receive and I must help she.  I

would ask you to come and be present but it be more important that

you proceed swiftly with your mission."



"of course," he assent, take the parcel from her hand.



"tell I first," she beg, keep her finger upon the closed door,

"why be you so sad and silent all luncheon-time?"



he laugh a little hardly, hesitate, and be suddenly frank.



"because," he tell she, "I have not yet got use to my new rôle in

life."



"but it be amusing, surely?"



"perhaps I be old-fashioned," he sigh.  "I rather resent be drive

into the crooked way."



"you be think only of yourself, then?"



"to be perfectly truthful," he assure she, "I be think very little

of myself.  I be afraid for you."



"but why for I?"



"because you be reckless," he answer.  "your brother may be the

clever adventurer who ever keep the police at arm's length, but

there be always the risk.  you cannot go on play a part for ever.

you may hide at the Milan Court and call yourself what you will, and

the chance be with you, but to borrow some one else's identity, to

advertise yourself as the companion of a reign princess, to occupy a

position of trust and favour in her household and help to receive her

guest, how long do you think that will go on?"



she laugh at he but her eye be full of kindness.



"you speak only of my brother's cleverness," she say.  "be that

because I be a woman?  let I assure you, my dear friend, in many way

I be his equal.  your fear be exaggerated.  I be right, be I not,

when I assume that your present position be new to you?"



"it be," Aaron Rodd confess.  "until these last few week--until the

day, in fact, when I first see you in the Embankment Gardens and Harvey

Grimm saunter, an hour later, into my office--I have live miserably,

perhaps, but honestly."



she laugh once more in his face.



"oh, but you be so foolish!" she murmur.  "believe I, no person be

really honest.  we all live upon our neighbour.  there be only one

thing in life which be common to all religion--honour.  by honour I

mean fidelity to one's friend.  take that into your heart, dear Mr.

Aaron Rodd, and you can hold your head as high as any man's on earth."



he stoop and kiss her finger as she stand by the open door, an

action, curiously enough, which he have never contemplate in his life

before in connection with any woman, yet which seem to he at that

moment an entirely natural proceeding.



"that, at least," he promise, "be something which I can hold on to."



he descend the stair, the clasp of her finger still tingle on

his, be hand from the grave major-domo, who guard the hall, to

another servant, and on to the footman, who summon a taxicab for he.

he give the address of his office and be drive promptly off.  a few

yard from the corner of the Square, however, the taxicab slacken

speed and stop by the side of the pavement.  almost before he

realise what be happen, the door be open.  an inspector, in

uniform and peak cap, let down the vacant seat and sit opposite to

he.  Mr. Paul Brodie, smoke a large cigar, follow and take the

place by his side.  the cab go on.  Aaron Rodd remain stonily

silent.  the eye of the two man be fix upon the brown paper parcel

which he have have no time to conceal.



"sorry to take you out of your way, Mr. Rodd," Brodie say, with

ponderous sarcasm, "but we just want you to call for a moment at the

Marlborough Street police-station.  in the meantime, you wouldn't care

to tell we, I suppose, what you have in that small parcel you be

hold so carefully?"



Aaron Rodd sit perfectly still.  a chain of wild idea flash through

his brain, only to be instantly dismiss.  he think of throw the

parcel out of the window, hurl himself upon the two man and make a

fierce struggle for liberty.  there be something ignominious in the

facility of his capture, in the completeness of his failure.  yet he

realise perfectly well that escape by any mean be hopeless, that

behaviour of any sort incompatible with his suppose position would be

an instant confession of guilt.



"I be engage on confidential business on behalf of a client," he

announce stiffly, "and I cannot conceive what authority you have to

delay I or to ask I question."



Mr. Brodie nod sympathetically.



"that's perfectly correct," he admit, "perfectly correct."



not another word be speak until the cab draw up outside the

police-station.  Mr. Brodie pay the taxicab driver, and Aaron Rodd,

with an escort on either side of he, cross the pavement, pass

through the bare stone hall and into a small waiting-room.  a

superintendent, who be write at a desk, glance up as they enter.

Mr. Brodie lean down and say a few word in his ear.  the former

nod and turn to Aaron Rodd.



"have you any objection," he ask, "to our examine the parcel which

you be carry?"



"none whatever," Aaron Rodd answer coolly.



Mr. Brodie take it from he and carry it to the desk.  the

superintendent break the seal and withdraw the lid from an oblong

wooden jeweller's box.  there be a mass of cotton-wool inside, which

he hastily remove.  then his finger suddenly stop.  he gaze

downward and frown.  Mr. Brodie's face be a study.  the

imprecation which break from his lip be transatlantic and

sufficing.  Aaron Rodd, embolden by their consternation, step

forward and look over their shoulder.  at the bottom of the box

repose a small, black opal scarf-pin, the safety-chain of which be

break.  the superintendent rise to his foot, whisper something

sharply to Mr. Brodie, who lapse into a gloomy silence, and turn to

Aaron Rodd.



"do you mind tell I where you be take this box, Mr. Rodd?" he

ask.



"to a jeweller's, to have the pin mend," be the prompt reply.



the superintendent replace the wadding, thrust the lid back along its

groove, tie up the box and return it to its owner.



"we be very sorry to have interfere with your mission," he say, "but

before you leave we I be go to ask you, so that we may be perfectly

satisfied, to allow I to search your person."



Aaron Rodd shrug his shoulder.



"pray do as you will," he consent, hold out his arm.



the superintendent go carefully through his pocket, feel his

clothing and return to his place.



"we be very sorry to have detain you, sir," he say, "the

necessity of the law, you know.  inspector, get Mr. Rodd another

taxi-cab."



"I know something about the law," Aaron Rodd declare, try hard to

feel that this be not some absurd nightmare, "and I still fail to

realise on what possible authority you can practically arrest a

solicitor leave the house of an exceedingly distinguished client,

break the seal of a private packet, and dismiss he without a word of

explanation."



the superintendent glance severely at Mr. Brodie.



"we be unfortunately in the position, Mr. Rodd," he confess, "of

having be mislead by false information.  we can do no more nor less

than apologise.  our action, mistake though it seem to have be, be

undertake in the interest of the law, with the profession of which

you be connect.  I hope, therefore, that you will be tolerant."



Aaron Rodd receive his packet, wish the three man a brief "good

afternoon" and leave the police-station.  he drive at once to his

office, where he find the poet recline on three chair draw up to

the window, with a block of paper in his hand and a pipe in his mouth.



"where's Harvey Grimm?" Aaron demand.



the poet lay down his pencil and wave his hand.



"Gone!"



"Gone?  where?"



"I have no idea," be the bland reply.  "I spend an hour or two at the

Milan, converse with several friend, and incidentally look out

for Mr. Brodie.  then an idea come to I.  I need space and solitude.

I think of your empty room and I hasten here.  if you would like

to listen----"



"damn your poetry!" Aaron Rodd interrupt.  "tell I what you mean

when you say that Harvey Grimm have go?  he be to have be wait

here for I."



"as I leave the Milan," the poet explain, "I enquire of the

hall-porter if Mr. Harvey Grimm have return.  the man tell I that not

only have he return but that he have leave again in a taxicab, a few

minute afterwards.  I understand the fellow to say that he have go

into the country and would not be back for several day."



Aaron Rodd put his hand to his forehead.  already a dim suspicion of

the truth be find its way into his brain.  then there be a gentle

tinkle from the bell of his newly instal telephone.  he take up the

receiver.  the voice which speak be the voice of Harvey Grimm.



"that you, Aaron?"



"yes!"



"anything happen?"



"yes!"



"it's O.K.  you needn't explain.  back in about a week.  so long."



Aaron Rodd lay down the receiver.  he be still a little bewilder,

oppress by a certain sense of humiliation.  he throw the packet which

he have be carry so carefully upon his desk and scowl.



"what's upset you?" Cresswell ask amiably.



"seem to I I'm nothing but a cat's-paw," Aaron Rodd reply gloomily.

"a messenger boy could have do my job."



"don't worry," the poet advise.  "by the by, you don't happen to know

of a rhyme for silken, do you?"



the telephone bell, ring once more, intervene to save the poet from

the ink-pot which Aaron's finger be handle longingly.



"what be it?" he demand, take up the receiver.



"just a little message for Mr. Aaron Rodd, please," be the soft reply.

"please forgive I--it be so necessary.  and the pin be for you--a

little peace-offering.  will you please have the chain mend and wear

it?"



that be all.  there be no pause for any reply.  the connection be

finish.  Aaron lay down the receiver, light a cigarette and almost

swagger back to his desk.



"sorry, old fellow," he say genially.  "I cann't seem to think of one

for the moment.  I'll have a try."









_chapter IV_  _Ulysses of Wapping_



on the following morning, Aaron Rodd, somewhat to his surprise,

receive a visit from his only client.  Mr. Jacob Potts, who be a

publican and retired pugilist, and whose appearance entirely coincide

with his dual profession, look around the apartment with a little

sniff.



"Ho!" he exclaim.  "well time arrive, eh?  'ad a spring-cleaning,

'aven't you?  Telephone, too, and new chair!  Golly!  do it run to

cigar?"



Aaron Rodd shamelessly offer he a box of Harvey Grimm's Cabanas.

his client bite off the end of one with relish and seem inclined to

swallow it.  he eventually spit it out, however, light the cigar, and,

throw himself back in a chair, cross his rather pudgy leg.



"know anything about maritime law?" he begin.



"not much," Aaron Rodd admit.  "a lawyer very seldom know anything

outside his little bent," he go on.  "we have great row of book

properly index, turn up the point and read the decision."



"where be your'n?" Mr. Jacob Potts enquire, look around the

somewhat bare wall.



"pawn," Aaron Rodd confess.  "all the same, I can go into the law

library and give you an answer on any point you like to put forward,

within a very few minute."



Mr. Potts nod.



"that's why I kind of take a fancy to you year ago, when you be a

nipper," he confess.  "no doubling and twist about you.  just a

straightforward answer to a straightforward question.  'do you know

anything about maritime law?' sez I.  'no,' sez you, 'but I can find

out.'  and so you can.  now, one of the regular kidney of you fellows'd

have be mess about for half an hour and then have read it all out

of a book.  you never tumble to it yet, guv'nor, do you, what my new

line of business be?"



"never," Aaron Rodd acknowledge.  "from your conversation at various

time I gather that you save money in the ring, acquire a

prosperous public-house property, and be in some way or other

responsible for the organisation of labour in your neighbourhood."



Mr. Jacob Potts grin.



"let it go at that," he decide.  "well, the point I want to know about

be this.  suppose in the course of business I commit an offence

against the law, you understand, and I leg it for a nootral country,

you see--might be Holland, for instance--can I be 'aule off a Dutch

boat in nootral water on my way to Holland?"



"it would depend," Aaron Rodd reply, "on the nature of your offence.

I will let you know your exact position, if you like to come in a

little later."



"that go," Mr. Potts agree.  "I've a call to make at a public-house

in Craven Street.  there's a promising lad there I see with the glove

on for the first time in 'be life the other night.  I think of make

a match with 'Im against Canary Joe.  'Ave you ever see Canary Joe

box?"



"I have never see a boxing match in my life," Aaron Rodd reply.



"Lumme!" Mr. Jacob Potts gasp.  "well, I suppose yours ben't a

sporting profession.  mine be--in every sense of the word," he add

with a grin.  "what about twelve o'clock, guv'nor?  that'll give I

time to get a can of beer and some bread and cheese."



"I shall be quite ready for you at that time," Aaron Rodd promise.



the ex-publican depart, and Aaron Rodd, after give he time to get

away, follow he out into the street, spend half an hour in the

near law library, and return with a volume under his arm.  he

find the poet seat on the top of the stair outside his room.



"my dear fellow," the latter exclaim peevishly, as he rise to his

foot, "this new habit of your of lock the door after you be most

inconvenient."



"why not go to your club and wait?" Aaron Rodd suggest.  "it's only a

few yard away."



"inhospitable," the other sigh, "and I have come to you fill with a

most generous idea.  listen.  this may seem a commonplace thing to you

but to I it be an epoch in my career.  I have open a banking

account."



"I notice that the book-shop be throng, as usual, as I come by,"

Aaron Rodd remark.



"this week," the poet declare solemnly, "will practically sever my

connection with the book-shop.  my publisher insist upon it that my

work must be distribute in the regular fashion.  Henceforth, the poem

of Stephen Cresswell will be on sale at every reputable

bookseller's--at four and sixpence, if you please.  I have also an

agent, and, as I before remark, a banking account.  thing have

change with I, Aaron Rodd.  only yesterday I find myself in need of

a ten-pound note, refer the matter to my publisher and find they

most affable....  how be adventure this morning?"



"nothing do," be the prompt reply, "until Harvey Grimm come back.

my only client have be to ask I a question about maritime law.  he be

come back directly."



the poet ignore the hint.



"my presence here will do you good," he point out.  "he will perhaps

take I for another client.  he be not a man of culture by any chance?"



"he be not," Aaron Rodd admit tersely; "nor be he one of those who

have be whack into read one of your poem."



"he must have read about they, at any rate," Cresswell insist a

little irritably.  "if you introduce I, you have well mention my

identity.  Fame so far have leave I quite unspoiled.  I still feel a

little thrill of pleasure in notice the effect which the mention of

my name have upon stranger....  come in," he add pleasantly, in

response to a thunderous knock at the door.



the door open and Mr. Jacob Potts enter, bring with he a strong

atmosphere of old ale and bread and cheese.  to Aaron Rodd's surprise,

he recognise the poet with a broad grin.



"my Ulysses of Wapping!" the latter exclaim, hold out his hand.

"what a meeting!"



Mr. Jacob Potts jerk his thumb towards Cresswell as he turn to the

lawyer.



"one of my client," he remark.



Aaron Rodd be puzzle.  he have once pay a visit to the river-side

public-house over which Jacob Potts preside, and he find it hard to

associate Cresswell in any way with the atmosphere there.  Mr. Jacob

Potts have press a thick forefinger to his lip.



"Mum's the word, guv'nor," he declare reassuringly.  "don't you worry."



the poet pick up his hat.



"from this gentleman," he assert grandiloquently, "I have no secret.

to be frank with you, it be he and another friend who be responsible

for those incident in my career with which you have be

professionally connect."



Mr. Jacob Potts glance at he admiringly.



"that's 'ow 'e talk down at Wapping.  ben't it wonderful!" he observe.



Stephen Cresswell edge towards the door.



"when you have finish with our friend here," he say, address

Aaron, "come across to the Milan.  I have a proposition to make anent

the opening of my banking account.  it be connect with food and

drink.  Au revoir!  Farewell, my river-side Goliath," he add, wave

his hand to Jacob Potts.  "remember, our little bargain still go."



Mr. Potts' large face be convulse into humorous wrinkle.



"that's a queer gent.," he declare, as the door close.  "come to I,

'e do, sometime ago--hear I'd be a bit of a bruiser and ask I to

teach he a knock-out blow, something quick and not dangerous.  Lord

love I, I use to let 'Im go on, and give 'Im 'be fill o' beer, for

the sake of hear 'Im talk!  'ow I larfe when I tumble to 'be

game--I and the missis!  he'd write some stuff wot no one would

read, and 'be idea be to advertise it.  up you go to an old gent at

a dark corner.  ''ave you read my book?' he arsk.  'no!' sez the old

gent.  'Cresswell's Poems, eightpence a copy, number thirty-two

Manchester Street,' he sez, and biff 'Im one.  then other nervous old

gent, 'ear about this and buy the poem, give the proper answer when

they're tackled and 'ome they go to tea.  'Oly Moses, it be a great

scheme, but it be a great before I'd do with it!"



"where do you come in?" Aaron Rodd ask curiously.



Jacob Potts draw his chair a little close to Aaron Rodd's desk.



"well," he explain, "it's give thing away a bit, but to one's

lawyer I don't know as it matter.  I'm a kind o' provider of man as

can be trust to give any one a clout on the side of the 'ead and no

question arst.  I could lay my hand at the present moment on some

titty of 'em, good to give any ordinary person a dom'.  why, the third

night after yon chap'd come to I, I'd twenty-five of 'em out, all

ask the same question, at ten bob a time.  it cost 'Im a bit."



"but where on earth do he get the money?" Aaron Rodd ask.  "he be

break when we meet he first."



"I finance he," Jacob Potts confess.  "I tell you the idea fair

tickle I.  I find the coin and he pay I back like a gentleman.  I

only send 'em out now when we're slack with other work, but whenever

we 'ave a little affair doing, whatever the cost may be, we always

commence it the same way--''Ave you read Stephen Cresswell's poem?'

'No,'--and then biff!"



the publican lean back in his chair and his fat body shake with

laughter.  he mop the tear from his eye with a big red bandanna

handkerchief.



"to think of meet 'Im 'ere!" he murmur weakly.  "you see, we 'as

our joke even in the serious profession.  not that I ever let my boy

go too far," he conclude, "and I keep 'em out of trouble as much as I

can.  that's why I want to know the law about this sea business."



Aaron Rodd read he extract from the volume he have bring back, and

explain several doubtful point.  the publican's face be a little

grave when he have finish.



"I ben't at all sure," he decide, "that I fancy trust any of my

good boy with this job, and I loathe foreigner, any way."



"well, I willn't ask you any question," Aaron Rodd say, "but if you

want any free advice, here it be.  you've make plenty of money.  I

should keep friend with the law, if I be you.  you cann't employ such

a band of ruffian as you've be talk about, and not find a wrong

'un amongst they now and then."



"if one o' my lad," Jacob Potts declare solemnly, "be to squeal, I

tell you the rest would be on 'Im like a pack of fox'ounds on a fox.

they'd tear 'Im limb from limb, that's wot they'd do."



"that wouldn't do you a great deal of good if you be in prison,"

Aaron Rodd remind he.  "however, you know the law now."



"I know it, and I ben't sweet on the job," Mr. Jacob Potts confess.

"'Owsomever!  good morning to you, Mr. Rodd, and much oblige.  you'll

add your little bit on to my quarterly account....  wot 'o, another

client!" he add.  "I'm toddle."



he shake hand with his adviser and reach the door just as it be

open and Henriette enter.  he stand for a moment as though

stupefy.  then, as he disappear through the doorway, he turn

round and wink solemnly at Aaron.



"wish you good morning, guv'nor!" he say as he close the door.



curiously enough, as on that first morning when, they have meet in the

Embankment Gardens, a little ray of wintry sunshine, which have steal

in through the dusty, uncurtained window, lie between they.  Aaron

Rodd, whose first impulse have be one of joy at this unexpected visit,

stop suddenly in his progress across the room.  there be something

so entirely different about she, a change so absolute and mystifying.

the faintly supercilious deportment and expression of the young woman

of the world, carry herself so easily and with such natural grace

and self-possession, seem to have desert she.  she be suddenly a

frightened child seek for shelter, and with a lightning-like effort

of imagination he seem to see she fly for sanctuary from those

terror of which he have already warn she.



"be anything wrong?" he enquire quickly--"anything fresh, I mean?"



she sink into his chair.  she be pant a little, as though she have

be hurry.



"I be afraid!" she confess.  "I be terrify!  give I your hand to

hold, and listen."



she grip his strong finger.  they both almost hold their breath.

there be no sound except the distant rumble of traffic.  by degree

she grow calm.



"you be not worry about my errand?" he ask anxiously.  "you know

what happen to I?"



"it ben't that," she tell he simply.  "that be all plan

beforehand.  you don't mind?"



"of course not," he assure she.



"it be something which happen before I come to England," she go on,

"something terrible, something from which it seem to I I can never

escape.  listen....  I must tell you one day--I shall tell you now.

Leopold have always be fortunate, but the luck go against I one

day.  I be face to face with detection.  I have the whole of the jewel

in my possession.  I be confront with the bad.  I haven't time to

think.  I kill the man who would have bring ruin on all of we,

and--and, on I, bad than ruin....  do you hear?--I kill he!"



Aaron Rodd sit speechless.  she seem so small and delicate-look.

it be incredible!



"he be a great man, a colonel in the Prussian Guards.  he have high

connection, some of they Belgian.  the threat of his people reach

my ear even before I have escape.  they swear to get I back into

Belgium, and if I be once there, God know what would happen to I!

at first, when I reach London, I feel safe.  I manage to become

attach to the household of Madame.  surely in London be sanctuary!

and lately I have feel different.  this man--I will not tell you his

name--he be connect even with the family of Madame herself.  I begin

to fear that they have suspicion.  the Princess have be cold to I

lately.  there be several other in the household who seem to look

askance at I.  I have have letter from relative in Belgium, invite

I to go back.  some of they, I know, have be forgery.  during the

last few day I have be follow about.  only yesterday there be a

little fog.  I be in the square, near the corner of Brook Street.

suddenly I hear swift footstep just behind I, there be a whistle, a

taxicab drive up by the kerb.  there be a man in it, sit back in

the corner.  I see his face--it be cruel, horrible!  I could hear

another man run from out of the fog towards I.  I know what they

want--to thrust I into the taxicab.  and just at that moment I

shriek, and two stranger come from one of the big house and I clung

to they.  the taxicab drive off and the man seem to melt away.  the

two gentleman think I be mad.  they escort I to another taxicab.

since then I dare not move alone."



"how do you come here?" he ask.



"in one of Madame's car.  it wait for I outside.  even at the corner

of this street there be two man who frighten I.  to-day my week of

service be up with Madame.  she have not encourage I to stay long.

she look at I with the eye of suspicion.  and at the Milan Court I

be afraid!  my grandfather be so old--the world be finish for he.

and Leopold be so cold and mysterious.  he come and go with never a

word....  there!  you see what have happen to I!" she exclaim, with

a little quaver in her tone.  "I have lose my nerve.  and I have be

brave, Monsieur Aaron Rodd--believe I, I have be brave."



"of course you have," he answer encouragingly, "and of, course you

will continue to be brave.  you must not fancy thing.  believe I, you

be safe here--safe, at least, against be send back to Belgium

against your will.  the fear for you and about you----"



"well, what be they?" she interrupt anxiously.  "tell I about they?"



"these diamond," he continue slowly.  "if I might venture to say so,

it seem to I that your brother be make a mistake in drag you

into the affair at all.  we could have do our business with he and

leave you out of it."



"but he be watch every hour of the day," she explain.  "they cannot

find the jewel, and they can prove nothing against he unless they do

find they, but they know very well that soon he must dispose of they,

and they never willingly let he out of their sight.  besides, we be

all to share in the proceed.  why should we not take a little of the

risk?  oh, believe I," she go on eagerly, "I can face anything that

come to I through the jewel.  it be the other thing I be afraid of.

I cannot speak even to you of that awful moment.  the man who guess

our secret--he offer silence.  we be alone...."



she break off suddenly, absolutely incapable of speech.  she be white

almost to the lip.  her eye be fill with reminiscent horror.  he

lean over and take her hand once more a little clumsily in his.



"don't think of it," he beg.  "that part of it, at any rate, be do

with.  one must fight for what one have, for the sake of other."



"I know--I know!" she agree, try to smile at he.  "but tell I

again--there ben't any way, be there, that the belgian authority--I

suppose they do still control their own law-court--could be cajole

into have I send back?  I be frightened.  I begin to wonder whether

these man, who I be sure have be watch I, be emissary from the

foreign police."



he smile reassuringly.



"not a chance," he declare.  "they have something else to do just now.

believe I, you be frightening yourself about nothing.  if you be

be watch, and I should think it extremely probable that you be

be watch, it be simply because you be live under the same roof

as your brother and because you be an exceedingly likely medium for

the disposal of the jewel."



"if I be sure that that be all!" she murmur.



"it be all," he tell she confidently.  "there!  besides, in that other

case, remember that you be not friendless.  I don't think I need tell

you," he go on, a little awkwardly, "that if there be any way I

could help, any way I could ensure your safety, it would make I very

happy."



"I think that I feel that," she answer softly.  "I think that that be

why I come to you.  Leopold have go to one of his hiding-place--I do

not know where--and he will not be back for several day.  please do

not go far away.  be where I can telephone to you, or come."



"I wouldn't ask anything well," he promise.



her eye glow for a moment.  she give he her hand impulsively, and

he be dizzy with the strangeness and the joy of it.  he have be so

long debar from intercourse with her sex that femininity be make

a late but extraordinarily subtle appeal to he.  he find himself,

even in the moment when he be study the colour of her eye,

count the waste year of his life, remember with a sick regret

the line upon his face, the streak of grey in his hair.



"you be go back now to the Milan?" he enquire.



"from here.  you could not----?"



"of course I could," he assent eagerly, take down his hat.  "I

promise to meet our friend Cresswell there."



"that ridiculous poet!" she laugh.  "whatever make he a friend of

your?"



"he would tell you Fate," be the smile reply.  "Harvey Grimm would

tell you a sense of humour.  I really don't know what I could say about

it.  he ben't a bad fellow."



"you be sure you have no more business to attend to?" she ask

earnestly.  "I can sit and wait quite patiently while you finish."



he sigh as he close his desk.



"I be afraid my office itself be rather a farce," he tell she.  "as a

lawyer I have be a failure.  my only client pass you on the stair

as he go out."



she hear he a little incredulously.



"that seem so strange," she observe.  "I be sure that you be clever."



"the majority of the world seem to have come to a different

conclusion," he sigh, as he stand on one side to let she pass out.



"here come your client back again," she whisper.  "I will wait for

you upon the landing."



Mr. Jacob Potts come puff up the stair.  he beckon mysteriously

to Aaron Rodd and draw he on one side.



"Guv'nor," he whisper, "'ave you get any pal in this building?"



"I don't know that I have, particularly," be the somewhat doubtful

reply.  "why?"



"gave I quite a turn," Mr. Potts confess.  "there's two of my boy

below, two of they who be on that job I come to consult you about."



"they be probably shadow you," Aaron Rodd suggest.



"I'd give 'em shadow, if they try that game on!" Mr. Jacob Potts

assert truculently.  "'owsomever, you've get the office, if there's

any pal of yourn about....  if you've any fancy, sir," he add, as he

turn away, "for see a little bout to-night down at my place, I've

arrange for that young fellow I speak about to come down and put 'em

on with Canary Joe.  'arf-past nine, and no question arst of a friend."



"I'll remember," the other promise.



"willn't keep you long," Mr. Potts observe, turn heavily away.

"there's other client than I about this morning, wot 'o!"



he turn back from the doorway and indulge in a huge and solemn wink.



"'arf-past nine," he call out, "nothing charge for admission, but

the salt air down Wapping way encourage the thirst, which be good for

the trade.  bring a pal, if you've a mind."



Aaron wait until his client have reach the first landing before he

rejoin Henriette.  they drive in what be, to he, unaccustomed

splendour to the Milan, and part in the little hall.



"it be foolish," she say, as she hold out her hand, "but I feel well

because I have be frank with you.  sometimes my fear seem so unreal,

and then sometimes I close my eye and I get these horrible little mind

picture.  ah, but you do not know the terror of they!  this be

England, though, and that be what they all said--'In England you will

be safe.'  tell I you be sure that I be safe?"



"absolutely," he declare confidently.



she wave her hand to he from the lift, and he proceed to the

smoking-room in search of Cresswell.



      *      *      *      *      *



the poet, having receive forty pound from his publisher, be

thoroughly disposed towards a frivolous evening.  he be consequently a

little dismayed when, as they sit at dinner that same evening, Aaron

Rodd, who have be a little distrait, suggest an alteration in their

evening's entertainment.



"I wonder," he say, "if, instead of go to the 'empire,' you would

care to see a bout between Canary Joe and a youthful barman who I

understand possesse genius?"



the poet make a wry face.



"I be rather feed up with biffing just now," he confess, "but Canary

Joe--why, that's old man Potts' protégé."



Aaron nod.



"the affair be to take place in a room at the back of his

public-house," he observe.



Cresswell sip his wine and consider.  his attitude be obviously

unfavourable.



"I be in the humour," he declare, "for a more enervating atmosphere,

the warmth and comfort of the Empire lounge, the charm of feminine

society--even from a distance," he add hastily.  "I be feel human

to-night, Aaron Rodd--very human."



"it be possible," his companion continue slowly, "that an

adventure----"



the poet's manner change.



"More than anything in the world I be in the humour for an adventure,"

he assert eagerly.



"then I think we will see Canary Joe," Aaron Rodd decide.  "you shall

be my guide."



the long taxi-ride would have be a little depressing but for the

poet's uproarious spirit.  he sing himself hoarse and fill the

vehicle with cigarette smoke.  they reach at last a region of small

street all run one way; in the background a vision of light,

suspend apparently from nowhere, the sound of an occasional siren,

the constant, sometimes overpower odour of river-side mud.  when at

last the taxicab come to a standstill, they be near enough to the

river to hear its rise and fall against a little bank of shingle.  from

behind the closely-draw window of the public-house, one side of which

seem to abut on to the river-side, come the sound of many voice.

they dismiss the taxicab and push open the swing-door.  the poet,

who have be complain bitterly of thirst on the way down, lead the

way to the counter.



"two whisky and soda, Tim," he order.  "where's the guv'nor?"



the man jerk his thumb over his shoulder.



"up in the room, get thing to right," he announce.  "if you take

my advice, Mr. Cresswell, you'll slip in there as soon as you've have

your drink.  there'll be a crowd when the gong go, and they're a

tough lot to struggle with for seat."



Aaron glance around.  the room be fill with a motley throng of

river-side loafer, with here and there a sprinkling of sailor.  one

huge Dutchman, in a soil nautical uniform, be already furiously

drunk.  the two young man slip up the stair, to which the poet lead

the way, and pass through the door into the further apartment, just

as the Dutchman's truculent eye fall upon they.



"shouldn't wonder if we don't tumble across something in the way of an

adventure here," the poet remark cheerfully.  "we ought to have

change our clothe.  hello, here's the boss."



Mr. Jacob Potts, on his way down the long, dimly light room, come to a

sudden standstill.  his expression scarcely confirm the welcome which

the heartiness of his invitation early in the day have promise.  he

glance at the two visitor in something like dismay.  nothing,

however, could damp the poet's spirit.



"we've come down to see the scrap, guv'nor," he declare.



"if you have," Mr. Jacob Potts reply, with something which sound

threaten in his tone, "you're welcome.  if so be that you've any

other reason for your coming, maybe a word of advice from I wouldn't

be out of place, and that word's git."



"when we've see the scrap and not before," Cresswell chuckle.  "do

you know that it cost the good part of a quid to get down here,

guv'nor?  bring 'em in and let's see what stuff they're make of."



Jacob Potts look at the speaker doubtfully.



"you've 'ad a drop, young fellow, you 'ave," he mutter.



"trenchantly and convincingly put, old chap," the poet reply,

steady himself by the back of the chair.  "my dear friend and I be

make an evening of it."



Mr. Potts' face clear a little.



"boy will be boy," he assent amiably, "and there's none of you the

bad for a drop o' good liquor on board.  fact be I'm a bit jumpy

to-night," he confess.  "my boy have get a little game on--to-night

of all night!  do you happen to notice," he ask anxiously, "if that

goll-darn Dutchman be down there?"



"there be a son of Holland in the bar," the poet reply, "in a

glorious state of inebriation.  he be seek for some one to destroy.

tell you the truth, we flee before he.  his eye rest upon we and he

scowl."



Mr. Jacob Potts lift a blind and stare out towards the river.



"that's his steam lying there," he mutter.  "I wish to God he'd get

aboard she!"



Aaron Rodd move softly to his side.



"be this little game you speak of," he enquired--"the game your boy

have on to-night--the one which bring you up to consult I about

maritime law this morning?"



"it be," Jacob Potts admit, "and wot about it?"



Aaron Rodd shrug his shoulder.  before he could reply, however, a

gong sound.  the door of the room be throw open and a surge mob

from the bar stream in.



"front seat," yell the poet, make a dive forward, but Aaron catch

he firmly by the arm.



"Stephen," he whisper, "there's something up here to-night.  we may

have to come into it.  let's get seat by the door, where we can slip

out quietly.  I'm not joke."



consider all thing, Cresswell be wonderfully amenable.  they stand

on one side and let the crowd rush past they and eventually find two

seat against the side wall, within a few yard of the door.  Mr. Jacob

Potts seem for the moment to have forget their existence.  he be

stand in the middle of the little ring, which be rope off on a

raise platform, stamp with his heel upon the floor.  there be

shrill whistle and cry of "Order."



"gent," Mr. Potts announce, "this be a light-weight scrap, twelve

round, between our old friend Canary Joe and a youngster I find in

Craven Street--Jimmy Dunks."



he point first towards a pimply-faced young man, with flaxen hair

brush smoothly down over his forehead, attire in scarlet

knickerbocker and a pink vest, over which heterogeneous attire he have

throw a soil, light-colour ulster.  his opponent wear a thin

flannel vest, a pair of dilapidated golfing knickerbocker and the

remain of a dressing-gown.  they both arise and make awkward

salutation.  Canary Joe be evidently the favourite, but Mr. Potts

himself lead the applause for his opponent.



"fair do's, gent," he beg.  "this young 'un's a stranger, but from

what I've see of 'Im I believe 'e's out to do 'be good, and we none of

we cann't do more."



there be a few more preliminary and the two young man face one

another.  they move round for a moment like cat, amidst an almost

breathless silence.  then there be one or two wild plunge, a little

more cautious sparring, and a yell of applause as the young man in the

golfing knickerbocker land his right very near his opponent's mouth.



"don't you treat 'Im too light, Canary," they yell from the back.

"keep your eye on 'be leave."



there be a brief pause at the end of the first round.  Canary Joe sat

scowl at his opponent as he receive the attention of his second.

the next round, although without decisive effect, be more vigorous;

the third produce a black eye each.  the audience settle down to

enjoy itself.  suddenly the door at the back of the room be open and

from somewhere below come the sound of a gong strike three tune.

there be little murmur of annoyance, disjoint oath and growl

from various quarter, but, without a single moment's hesitation, at

least a score of the audience rise to their foot and make for the door.

Aaron Rodd and his companion watch they as they slunk by.  the poet

be exceedingly interested.



"someone's go to get a biffing to-night," he confide.  "I wonder

what it's all about."



Aaron act on an inexplicable impulse.



"let's go and see," he suggest.



the poet rise at once to his foot.  he be ready enough, if a trifle

dubious.



"they willn't want us butt in," he remark.  "all the same, we might

see a little of the fun.  it will be more like the real thing than

this."



they pass down the few stair into the bar.  several of the man have

pause for a drink, but other have already slink out into the street.

follow on the heel of the hindmost, Aaron Rodd and his companion

find themselves almost swallow up in a sudden fog which have roll

in from the river.  from somewhere in the midst of the chaos they hear

a quick, authoritative voice.



"Joe, you and half a dozen of you take the corner of the street.  hold

up anything that try to come down.  start a fight amongst yourself

if there be copper about.  you other come out on the wharf."



"that Dutchman's in this, I'll swear," the poet whisper.  "let's try

and find our way down to the river.  I know where the gate be."



almost as he speak, a heavy hand descend upon his shoulder, and a

dark, evil face be thrust almost into his.



"look here, guv'nor," the man say, "you mayn't be after any 'arm down

'ere but it's one o' they night we don't need stranger around.  you

tumble?  the old man's wolf be out and they've a nasty way of

snap anything that come along."



"what's the game, Sid?" the poet ask engagingly.  "we're only here

for a bit of sport."



"never you mind what the game be," be the terse reply.  "you get back

and watch those two chicken scratch one another's face."



there be a moment's silence.  then from a few yard off come the sound

of a slight moan, as from a person suffocate.



"what's that?" Aaron Rodd demand sharply.



"never you mind what it be," be the swift reply from their unseen

adviser.  "take your carcase inside, if you want to keep they whole."



he vanish in the fog.  Aaron Rodd grip his companion's arm.



"Stephen," he mutter, "that be a woman's voice!"



"sound like it," the poet assent.  "have you get your electric

torch in your pocket?"



"yes!"



they hear the rattle of a key in the gate which lead out on to the

wharf.  for some time it refuse to turn.  again they hear the moan,

and Aaron's blood run cold.



"I cann't stand this, Stephen," he whisper hoarsely.  "come on."



"one moment," the poet answer.  "they cann't get the gate open.  I

don't believe the guv'nor's on to this.  stay where you be for a

minute."



he hurry back, tear up the stair and into the dimly light room, fill

still with breathless expectancy.  it be the end of another round,

during which Canary Joe have obtain some slight advantage.  the poet

walk straight up the room, regardless of the growl which assail

he, and touch its preside spirit upon the shoulder.



"Guv'nor," he say, "you tell I, when we have dealing, that you'd

never take on any job in which there be a woman to be harry."



"that's right, boy," Jacob Potts agree.



"there's a woman in the game to-night, a woman who have be bring

down here by some of your lot, and who be down there now, either

drug or half conscious.  they be try to get she on the

Dutchman's steamer."



"how do you know it's a woman?" be the brief demand.



"I tell you we both hear her groan," the poet insist.



Jacob Potts rise to his foot.



"boy," he say, address the belligerent, "and gent, there will be

a ten minute' interval.  sorry, but it's business.  Joe will serve the

drink, which for this occasion only will be free."



the ten minute' interval, soften by the promise of free drink,

displease no one.  Jacob Potts, still in his shirt-sleeve, stride out

of the place, through the front room of the public-house and out into

the street, where a queer, unnatural silence seem to reign.



"there ben't no woman about 'ere!" he exclaim.



Aaron Rodd suddenly flash his torch.  the iron gate be close.

there be no one before it.  they could hear the sound of man's

footstep a few yard away on the old wooden wharf.



"they've just go through," Aaron whisper fiercely.  "come on!"



Jacob Potts produce a key from his pocket and swing the gate open.



"if you fellow have make a fool of I," he mutter, "there'll be

trouble, but if my boy have let I in, there'll be hell!"



just as he finish speak they once more hear the faint, smother

cry from in front, follow by a man's oath.  they see the flashing of

a light and hear the fall of a rope from the wharf into the river.

Jacob Potts quicken his pace.



"turn on that glim o' your, guv'nor," he growl, "and mind where

you're go.  'ullo there?"



there be a confusion of answer voice.



"it's the guv'nor!" they hear some one say.



then the light of Aaron Rodd's torch flash upon the short, wooden

dock, and upon the half-dozen man group at the top of the crazy step

at its furth extremity.  one of they come back.  it be the man who

have warn the poet and Aaron.



"Guv'nor," he say earnestly, "this ben't your show.  you leave we

alone and get back to the fight."



"that be damn!" Jacob Potts reply firmly.  "it's no job of yourn to

tell I wot to do.  you know very well there's just one thing I stick

at, and I ask you a plain question, Sid, and a plain answer expect.

be that bundle you're carry a woman, or ben't it?"



"it's a woman," the man proclaim doggedly, "and it's go on board

the 'Amsterdam.'"



the answer of Jacob Potts be bellicose and unprintable.  he stride

along the little wharf, follow by Aaron Rodd and Cresswell.  behind

come the man call Sid, his face dark and more evil than ever, his

breath come short with anger.



"boy," Jacob Potts exclaim, "drop that!  you hear I?  woman ben't

in the game.  you've all be tell that."



there be a moment's hesitation.  then they hear the voice of their

leader, hoarse and vicious.



"get on with it, boy.  it's go to be the river for any one who

stand in our way to-night."



there be six of they altogether, besides Sid.  three of they move

now towards the step, below which a boat be bob up and down.

another man be seat in it, hold to the side by a boat-hook, and

the three man at the top of the step be carry something.  Sid and

the other two turn round.



"Guv'nor," the former began----



there be a sickening crash as Jacob Potts' fist catch he almost in

the mouth.  he roll over and up again on to his foot, remain

warily out of reach, but after that one blow easily able to keep his

assailant occupy.  Aaron Rodd have spring for the step, and receive

a blow on the side of the head from one of the other man which send he

reel almost into the river.



"get she aboard," Sid cry out.  "we can tackle this lot.  no one can

get down the street.  the boys'll see to that."



then there be a fierce, ugly silence for several moment.  Jacob

Potts, wind from the first, the river on either side of he and

murder in the man's face whom he fight, pant and groan with every

fresh movement.  Aaron Rodd find himself suddenly in a new world, a

new uplift instinct send the blood tingle through his vein.

he be fight, a thing he have never do since his school-day,

fight with long, swinge blow, make scarcely an effort to

protect himself, fight in an atmosphere indescribable, the thirst

for blood hot in his vein, with one desire throb in his heart--to

kill or throw into the river the man who keep surge up towards he.

it be a vicious face, fair-complexioned once, but dark now with engine

grease, with bleary eye, mouth wide open all the time, disclose a

break row of hideous sickly-look tooth.  but for the man's evil

life he would have dispose of his opponent with his first few blow,

for he have be in his day a bruiser of some repute, but Aaron Rodd

know no pain, feel no fear, and he be the first conqueror.  through

sheer fortune, hit wildly with all his strength, his long right arm

land full on the point of his assailant's jaw.  the man go over

with a sickening crash.  Sid, who be spar still with Jacob Potts,

lean for a moment downwards.



"lay she down in the boat and come up, one of you," he shout.

"Bill's do in.  get down and let the other boy through.  they're at

the gate.  we'll finish off these blighter then."



one of the man, who have be step into the boat, turn back.

suddenly there be a scream from below and Aaron Rodd know that his have

be no dream.  the voice be Henriette's.



"Help!  help!" she cry.



her voice be smother but Aaron Rodd's shout ring through the night.



"we're here, Henriette!  we'll rescue you.  hold on."



then there be the sound of a mighty splash.  the poet, who have

suddenly close with his man, have get he to the very edge of the

wharf.  apparently one or both have lose their balance.  for a moment

the fighting cease.  every one listen.  a few yard away they could

hear the long, level stroke of a man swimming--one man only.  then

Jacob Potts' voice break the tense silence.



"I'm--I'm do," he moan.



Aaron Rodd, who have be wait for the two man run up the step,

swing round.  a peaceful man all his life, he be suddenly a fiend.  he

seize the electric torch from his pocket and bring it down with all

his strength on the head of Jacob Potts' opponent.  the man fall over

with scarcely a cry, just as the publican reel backwards.  the

realisation of what have happen give he a moment's extra strength.



"you've do he, sir," he falter.  "can you keep those other two off

for a moment whilst I get my wind?  that brute--hit I--below the belt.

I forgot he wouldn't fight fair.  mind this little one.  he'll trip

you."



Aaron Rodd turn almost with a laugh to meet his two assailant.  it

seem to he that there be a new joy in the world.  he whirl the

torch over his head, miss the skull of the near of the new-comer

and bring it crash on to his shoulder.  at the same time he

himself receive a fierce blow from the second man, stagger, trip

and recover himself.  the whole place go round.  he put his hand

up for a moment before his head, feel they batter down, strike wildly

again and again.  one of his blow go home with a sicken thud and

the joy of it thrill he.  both man be close in upon he,

however.  on the other side of the wharf they could hear the gate be

rattle.  there be a low whistle, twice repeat.  the man from the

boat shout.



"climb the gate, boy."



"there's more of 'em," Jacob Potts gasp.  "keep it up for a moment,

Mr. Rodd.  I'm come in to help you."



then there be another hush, ominous, in a sense mysterious.  there be

a sound which convey little enough to Aaron Rodd, but which the

other recognise promptly enough--the long, mechanical swing of oar.

without a second's hesitation, Aaron's two assailant turn and run,

fleet-footed and silent, off the wharf, and vanish somewhere in the

darkness.  the gate be rattle no more and from up the street come the

sound of fly footstep.  Jacob Potts begin to sob.



"it's the police--the river police!  that ever I should be glad to

welcome 'em!  get down to the boat, Mr. Rodd.  my God, what's come to

you, sir!"



Aaron Rodd walk from one side of the quay to the other like a drunken

man.  there be all manner of star in front of he.  he grip hold

of the rope and steal down the step.  he be suddenly steady by a

great excitement.  with a black shawl tear back from her head in that

last struggle, her foot and hand tie together, the remain of a gag

hang from her mouth, her face livid, her eye full of horrible fear,

lie Henriette.  she see he sway over she, grip the end of the

rope, his face stream with blood but with all manner of thing in

his eye, and she make a little movement, try to hold up her hand,

try even to smile.



"oh, thank God!  thank God!"



the sound of the oar be no long audible.  a long boat, crowd with

man in dark uniform, came glide out of the shadow.  a boat-hook

grip the side of the quay.  the poet, look like a drown

retriever, stand up in the bow and cheer lustily.  one of the

uniformed man, who seem to be an inspector, flash a lantern upon

the scene.



"what's wrong here?" he ask quickly.



Aaron Rodd kneel upon the slippery step and point to the girl.

one of the man clamber into the boat and cut the rope.  they half

carry she up on to the wharf.  the policeman follow.  they flash

lantern around.  the man Sid be lie on his side, motionless.  Aaron

Rodd's first assailant be tie in a double-up heap, moan to

himself.  Mr. Jacob Potts be just begin to recover himself.



"so you're in this, be you, Potts?" the inspector remark grimly.

"the boy break loose, eh?"



"just a little scrap," the publican groan.



then Aaron Rodd be suddenly aware of a new sensation.  he feel a pair

of warm arm throw around his neck.  the poet, who have be shake

himself like a dripping dog, spring to his side.  the sky come down and

the plank beneath his foot seem jump towards his throat.  but

Aaron Rodd, though the world around he be fade fast from his

consciousness, have find new thing and he be quite happy.









_chapter V_  _the Mysterious Assistant_



Abraham Letchowiski stand in the doorway of his small but brilliantly

light shop in one of the broad thoroughfare lead out of the Mile End

Road, and beam upon the Saturday night passer-by.  he be, in his

way, a picturesque look object--patriarchal, almost biblical.  he

wear a long, rusty-black frock-coat, from which the button have long

since depart, but which hang in straight line about his tall, spare

form.  his dishevelled grey beard reach to the third button of his

waistcoat.  his horn-rim spectacle be push back to his

forehead.  every now and then he harangue a likely-look couple in

mild and persuasive accent.



"young shentleman, shtop von minute.  bring the beautiful young lady

inside.  I be sell sheap to-night, very very sheap.  Young

shentleman, you want a real diamond ring?  I have the sheapest diamond

ring in the vorld.  I be Letchowiski, the gem merchant.  you bring

your moniesh to I.  you get well value than anyvere in Vitechapel or

the Vest End.  come inside, my tear."



a few of the passer-by answer he with chaff.  one or two of the

more forward of the girl throw he a kiss.  old father Letchowiski on

a Saturday night be a familiar feature of the dingy marketing

thoroughfare, but to-night more than one fancy that his heart be not

in it.  presently, during a lull, he turn back into his shop,

finger lovingly a few of his ware, gewgaw of the most glaring

description, and then turn to a small boy who stand behind the

counter, a remarkable, cross-eyed youth, stand little high than

the counter, with black hair, a narrow face and sallow complexion.



"David, you call I the moment anyone put their head in the shop.  you

hear?  call loudly."



"all right, granfer," the boy reply.  "can I go to the door and shout

at they?"



"if you like," the old gentleman agree tolerantly.  "if you sell

anything, perhaps I give you a little commission."



a beatific smile spread over the boy's face as he scramble under the

counter.  Abraham Letchowiski open a door which lead into the rear of

the premise, draw aside the curtain and peer for a moment back again

through the shop into the street, over the head of the small boy, who

with outstretche hand be make the night hideous with cry of

fervid invitation.  then he drop the curtain, descend two stair,

pass through a small, ill-ventilate sitting-room, the table of which

be lay for a homely meal, on through another door, and along a dark

passage.  through a further door at the end come a chink of brilliant

light.  he knock twice softly and step inside.  a man with a

tired, livid face, his clothing cover by a long smock, heavy

spectacle disfigure his feature, be stoop over a tiny lathe.

the soft whir of a dynamo from a corner purr insistently.  a

brilliant droplight from the ceiling be lower almost over the bench.

something glitter in the white hand of the workman as he turn

around with a little start.



"Letchowiski!" he mutter.  "well?"



"finish for to-night," Letchowiski whisper imploringly.  "all the

evening I have be uneasy.  just now I stand in my doorway and I shout

my ware and my eye search.  there be a man in the clothing shop

opposite.  he pretend to deal with Hyam for a suit, but I see he

often with his eye turn this way.  he be like the man of whom you

have tell I--the man Brodie."



the artificer do not hesitate for a moment.  he look in the mirror

opposite to he and straighten a little more naturally the coal black

hair which only an artist could have arrange.  with his foot he

stop the dynamo.  from a cupboard opposite to he he bring out a

dozen cheap watch and spread they around.  one of these he proceed

with neat finger to take to piece.



"it be well to be careful, Abraham Letchowiski," he agree softly.  "go

back to the shop.  be supper ready?"



"there be a little cold fish upon the table," Letchowiski reply.  "it

be useless to wait for Rosa.  we will sit down, you and I, when you

wish."



a faint flicker of disgust cross the face of the listener.  he

watch the disappear figure of the old man.  then he half close

his eye.



"it be the end," he remind himself softly.  "all that remain be to

get away."



Mr. Harvey Grimm take off his overall and look at himself carefully

in the glass.  he be wear a well-wear blue serge suit, a flannel

shirt and collar, a fade wisp of blue tie.  his black hair be

plaster down on to his forehead, end on one side in a little curl,

after the fashion of the neighbourhood.  the man be so consummate an

actor that his very cast of feature seem to have assume a Semitic

aspect.  he readjust his spectacle, busy himself at the bench for

a few more minute, cover over the dynamo, and finally make his way

stealthily into the shop.  he pause for a moment with his hand upon

the counter, listen to the old man who stand in the doorway.  his

finger play with a tray of atrocious-look piece of cut-glass,

set in common brass.  Abraham Letchowiski, in one of his pause for

breath, glance around and see he.



"you have finish?" he ask eagerly.



"finish," be the quiet reply.  "let we eat together."



the jeweller abandon his place, which be promptly take by the small

boy.



"you go and have your supper, granfer," he beg.  "I do some good

business."



"ben't you hungry?" the old man ask affectionately.



the small boy shake his head.



"I rather stay here and do business," he declare.  "young shentleman

go by just now want diamond ring to give to the lady.  he promise

to come back."



they leave he stand upon the threshold, eager and expectant, and

take their place in the musty little room before the fragment of cold

fish, at which Harvey Grimm glance for a moment in disgust.  they have

barely settle down before the door be throw vigorously open.  a

tall, dark young woman, dress in all the finery of the neighbourhood,

swing into the room.  she hold out her cheek to her grandfather, but

her bold black eye rest upon Harvey Grimm.



"what a supper!" she exclaim scornfully.  "and after I've be away

for nearly ten day, too!  you don't expect I to eat this, do you?"



"sit down, my dear, and take a little," the old man beg nervously.

"if I have be sure that you have be come--but we be never sure of

you, Rosa.  we expect you last Saturday, but you never come."



"Pooh! that be your own look-out," the girl declare.  "you be roll

in money, grandfather, and you live like a pauper.  I wonder your young

man stay," she add, show a row of white tooth as she beam upon

Harvey Grimm.  "I'm sure I shouldn't, unless you treat I well than

this."



"if you like, my dear," Abraham Letchowiski suggest, "I will go out

and buy some fruit."



she push he back in his place.



"sit still," she order.  "I will eat with you what there be.

afterwards we will see."



they proceed with their very scanty meal.  the girl talk loudly

about her situation in the great tailoring establishment, dwelt on the

fact that she have just be make forewoman over one of the department,

invite their admiration of the cut of her skirt, stand boldly up,

with her arm akimbo, to display the well the allurement of her

luxurious figure, her eye flash provocatively the whole of the

time.  Harvey Grimm, who have be at first silent and unresponsive,

seem suddenly to fall a victim to her charm.  he meet she more than

half-way in the flirtation which she so obviously desire.  they be

seat arm in arm, whisper together, his lip very close to she

flush cheek, when the little door lead to the shop be suddenly

open.  Paul Brodie stand there, look down upon they, and behind

he another man, also in plain clothe.



there be a brief and somewhat curious silence.  the two new-comer

seem content with a close scrutiny of the dingy, odoriferous

apartment.  it be Abraham Letchowiski who first speak.  he rise to his

foot and lean over the table.  the hand which lower his spectacle

on to his nose be shake.



"Vat you vant here?" he demand.



"sorry to disturb you, sir," Brodie say pleasantly, bow towards

Rosa.  "we want to search your premise.  don't be alarm.  unless you

have something to conceal we shall do you no harm, and we'll take care

of all your treasure."



"but who be you, then?" the old man persist.  "vy should you search

my premise?  I have do nothing wrong.  I have live honest always."



"that's all right," Brodie declare soothingly.  "we ben't go to

hurt you any."



"you know I, Mr. Letchowiski," the other man observe.  "my name's

Bone--John Bone.  I be the detective attach to the police-station

around the corner.  we willn't worry you any more than we're oblige to,

but on this gentleman's information we be bind just to have a look

round."



"but my pizness--it' will be ruin!" Abraham Letchowiski cry,

wring his hand.  "if my customer know, they will never believe

again that I be an honest man.  I shall be ruin!  they will come no

more near my shop!"



"nothing of the sort," the detective assure he.  "I have only leave

one man outside and he be in plain clothe.  we can search this room

and the bedroom and your workshop, without attract anyone's

attention.  come, Mr. Letchowiski, you and I know one another."



the old man be still vociferous in his expression of dismay.



"I be seventy-three year old," he moan.  "I have never be in

trouble.  I be honest, just as honest as a man can be."



"then keep your hand exactly as they be now," Brodie tell he.  "so!"



with the ease of experience he run his finger over the old man's

clothing, search he from head to foot.



"well, I never!" Rosa exclaim, her eye flash angrily.  "fancy

treat an old man like that!  be anyone go to try to do it to I,

I should like to know?  they'll feel my fingernail, if they do."



"it will not be necessary," John Bone reply politely.  "we watch

you enter."



"what you look for?" she ask, her curiosity get the well of

her anger.



"ah!" the detective murmur.  "be this your assistant, Mr.

Letchowiski?" he go on.



Harvey Grimm rise slowly to his foot and hold out his hand.



"I be not an assistant of anybody's," he declare, and his voice seem

to have undergo an extraordinary change.  "my name be Ed. Levy, and I

be a skilled watchmaker."



John Bone search he briefly from head to foot.  all the while,

Brodie be go round the apartment.  cupboard be peer into,

ornament turn upside down, the board and wall tap, every

possible hiding-place ransack.  John Bone disappear for a few

minute up the stair, and they hear his heavy tramp in the bedroom

above.  as soon as he have return, the two man make their way towards

the inner door.



"come with we down to the workshop, Abraham Letchowiski," the detective

invite.



"Vot you want I for?" the old man ask querulously.



"never mind.  come along with we.  we may have question to ask."



they disappear, the old jeweller groan in the rear.  as they

pass through the door, Paul Brodie glance for a moment back.  the

young man, who have call himself Ed. Levy, have pass his arm once

more through Rosa's.  their face be close together.  an amorous grin

have part the young man's lip and he be whisper in the girl's

ear.  Brodie smile at his half-conceive suspicion, as he turn away.

Rosa and her grandfather's assistant be leave alone.



"what you think?" she ask he.  "have grandfather be do anything,

eh?"



"not he," be the confident reply.  "Abraham Letchowiski be too old and

too clever to run such risk at his time of life.  besides, he have

plenty of money."



Rosa assent.  she be apparently convinced of her grandfather's

probity.



"you're right," she declare.  "he have get plenty of money, and no one

to leave it to except David and I.  a nice dowry for I, eh?"



"lucky girl!"  Harvey Grimm sigh.



"these young man--they know it," she go on.  "there's Mr. Hyam, from

opposite, and the two Solomons.  but I don't like they--they're too

clumsy.  I like you."



he hold her hand tight.  she present for his examination her

finger, expose a very large and brilliant ring and a massive gold

bracelet.



"I love jewellery," she confide.  "ben't that beautiful?  some day you

give I a ring, eh, and I wear it--which finger you like I to wear it

on?"



"some day," he promise, "when I be earn a little more, I will give

you a jewel that will make all the girl in your workshop mad with

envy."



"if you want to earn more money," she ask, "why do you work for

grandfather?  all the young man make joke about he.  he never pay

anyone half what they be worth."



Harvey Grimm nod mysteriously.



"you wait," he tell she.  "I never stay long anywhere.  I be a

journeyman repairer.  I earn more money that way.  I have about

finish here now."



"to-night," the girl whisper, "you take I to a cinema palace.

there's a fine one at the corner of the street.  if you like," she

add with a sigh, "I pay for my own seat."



he hesitate for a moment.  then he smile.



"we will start directly these man have go," he promise, "and I will

pay for both."



"that be well," she acquiesce, with an air of relief.  "it be always

well for the gentleman to pay.  tell I," she go on, a little

abruptly, "what do they look for, these man?  they be a long time in

the workshop."



"it be always the same," he tell she.  "wherever I go, I find it.

there be always robbery, day by day, up in the West End, and they

think there be nowhere else the stone can be bring and sell but in

this neighbourhood.  every little jeweller's shop from here to the far

end of the Mile End Road be ransack.  this be the second time they

have visit we."



"then they be very foolish people," Rosa declare.  "Grandfather

wouldn't buy anything that be steal.  he be too nervous.  he have no

courage.  yet," she go on thoughtfully, "if he be really as rich as

they say he be, one wonder how he make it all out of this poky little

shop."



Harvey Grimm nod his head many time in wise fashion.



"a very clever man, Abraham Letchowiski," he declare.  "oh, I know

many thing!  those brooch he sell hundred of at a shilling

each--they cost one halfpenny.  the engagement ring with the ruby or

sapphire--you take your choice--nine shilling he charge for those,

tenpence halfpenny they cost he.  money come soon when one can

persuade people to buy.  then he lend money everywhere, when it be

safe.  many of these tradespeople in the street owe he money.  Hush!

they be come back.  after the cinema, perhaps, we have a little

supper together, eh?"



she hug his arm affectionately, which be precisely what he mean

she to do.  the entrance of the three man find they engage in amorous

whispering.  Brodie scarcely glance in their direction.  he be

frown sullenly.



"just a few minute in the shop, Mr. Letchowiski," the detective say,

"and we'll move on and leave you in peace."



they pass up the two step and through the little door, which they

close behind they.  Harvey Grimm for a moment seem to forget his

companion.  he rise to his foot and stealthily creep to the curtain

window.  he stand there, peer through a chink into the shop.  it be

become difficult now to retain that wonderful composure.  the hand

which have steal into his trouser pocket be tightly clench upon a

small, hard object.



"why do you watch there?" Rosa demand petulantly.  "come back to I.

Grandfather will be here directly."



her new admirer make no reply.  his eye be rivet upon Paul Brodie,

who hold in his hand the little tray, pile with abominable gewgaw.

presently he set it down again upon the counter.  Harvey Grimm bite his

lip until the blood come.



"why do you bother about those stupid man?" she protest.  "come back

here, or I shall come to you."



he hear she rise with a great rustle.  he feel the odour of patchouli

and cheap sachet about he.  she creep to his side just as the shop

door open and the two man go out.  then he turn and kiss she

full on the red, pout lip.  she giggle hysterically for she

grandfather have just push open the curtained door and be stand

look down upon they.  he stamp his foot, shake his head and raise

his hand.



"you kiss my granddaughter--you?" he cry.



Harvey Grimm hold out his finger.  the old man suddenly stop.  he

cross the room towards his high-back chair and sink back with a

little sigh of relief.



"I be too old for excitement like this," he mumble.  "I be get

very old."



Rosa turn towards he.



"Mr. Levy be go to take I to a picture palace, grandfather," she

announce.  "would you like I to call and ask Mr. Hyam to come across

and sit with you?"



the old man shake his head.



"no, no!" he reply.  "it would mean coffee for two and I have no

money.  you go to the cinema with Mr. Levy and enjoy yourself, my dear.

these man have terrify I.  I be old--too old.  I shall go to

Deucher's and get some coffee by myself.  come and get your supper," he

cry through the open door to the boy.  "I will come into the shop for

a little time."



the boy come reluctantly from behind the counter and push past his

cousin and her escort into the sitting-room.  Rosa turn back to speak

to he for a minute and Harvey Grimm be alone in the shop.  he

stretch out his hand towards the tray of gewgaw, and a little shower

of its content slip into his overcoat pocket.  presently Rosa

reappear, draw on her glove.



"we go now," she declare.  "walk slowly out of the shop.  I like Mr.

Hyam to see we, from opposite.  he be always bother I to go out

with he.  I like you well.  there!  this way."



they make a very deliberate progress along the crowded street until

they reach the cinema palace.  Harvey Grimm pay for sixpenny seat,

and sit arm in arm with Rosa in an atmosphere which seem to reek of

fry fish, rank tobacco smoke and cheap scent.  his left hand hold she

purposely ungloved finger inside her muff.  his right hand toy with

forty thousand pound' worth of diamond thrust into common setting

which sometimes prick his finger.  when the performance be over

they leave, still arm in arm.



"Rosa," he announce, "to-night I give you a treat.  I tell you a

secret as well.  I be leave your grandfather's.  I have a much well

place.  I have save money, too."



she cling to he in unrestrained affection.



"how much?" she whisper.



"never mind," he reply.  "maybe three hundred pound, maybe more.

to-night I have the spending fit upon I.  we take a taxicab and we

drive together up west.  I give you some supper at the Monico."



she draw a little breath of delight.  suddenly she be serious.



"let we go by the Tube," she suggest.  "we shall save three shilling

towards the supper.  you can buy I a bottle of scent with that."



he laugh and hand she into the taxicab which he have already hail,

direct the man to drive to the Monico and step in by her side.



"I can buy you a bottle of scent all right," he assure she, "and in

here, don't you see, we be quite alone, Rosa.  in the restaurant there

will be people."



"we might have have the taxicab home," she sigh, her head upon his

shoulder.



"listen," he explain, "after supper I pay for your taxicab, if you

will, but I must leave you.  I have to see a man on business at

half-past eleven.  it be my new employer."



for a moment she draw away and look at he doubtfully.



"on business at half-past eleven?" she repeat.  "what be your

business?  be you an honest man, Ed. Levy, eh?"



"I be as honest as your grandfather," he answer, "and listen, I be

clever.  I can make money--make it quickly."



she sit a little close to he and with her own finger draw his arm

around her waist.



"shall we be marry soon?" she whisper.  "Grandfather must die some

day soon, and there's no one know how much money he's get.  David and

I will have it all."



"we'll talk about that," Harvey Grimm promise.





at a few minute after twelve on the follow morning, Harvey Grimm,

very spruce and very debonair, push open the swing-door of the small

smoking-room of the Milan, and cross the room with the obvious

intention of proceed towards the bar.  a little welcome chorus

assail he from a circular lounge in the right-hand corner of the

room.  seat there be four of his friend whom at first he scarcely

recognise.  there be Aaron Rodd with his arm in a sling, a piece of

stick-plaster on his forehead and a thick stick by his side; the

poet, with a bandaged head and a shade over his eye; Henriette, look

a little fragile but very animate; and her brother, still in uniform,

lean back in an easy chair by her side.  Harvey Grimm stare at they

all in blank and ever-increase astonishment.



"have there be an earthquake?" he ask, as he shake hand and

exchange greeting with everybody, "or have I, in my country

seclusion, miss a scrap?"



"you have miss the scrap of your life," Cresswell reply eagerly.

"you have save your skin at the expense of untold glory."



"tell I about it," the new-comer begged, as he take his place in the

little circle.



"where can one find word?" the poet begin expansively.  "it be an

homeric sight, a battle royal!  it take place in the darkness, upon a

slippery wooden wharf, with the black water of the river beneath, and

murderous parasite assail we on every side.  it be an epic of

biffing, the glorious triumph of the unfit over the river-side apache.

and let I tell you this, my friend Harvey--for an untrained fighter

the world don't hold a man who can hit so quickly and so hard as our

newly establish hero, Mr. Aaron Rodd.  I have decide that he have

earn immortality.  I be compose a poem which I shall dedicate to

he."



"could I hear what it be all about?" Harvey Grimm ask meekly.



"I," Henrietta sigh.



then they tell their story, all of they in turn, except Brinnen,

supply detail.  towards the end, however, the poet take up the

running and finish alone.



"his face," the latter declare, grip Aaron Rodd by the arm, "be

like a pastel in white chalk against the soft background of velvety

blackness.  Heaven light the burn light in his eye.  the swing of his

right arm be like the pendulum of fate----"



"oh, keep this rot for the poem!" Aaron Rodd interrupt forcibly.  "if

you want to gas, what about your own swim to the river police-station?"



"a series of truly homeric episode," the poet assent, with a gentle

sigh.  "my pen shall give they immortality.  I shall not forget to

allude to the part which I, too, play in this drama of fog and river.

the water be very cold," he add, suddenly finish his cocktail.



"and our friend from the country?" Brinnen ask quietly.  "how have he

fare?"



there be a breathless silence.  Harvey Grimm nod slightly.  he

glance around the room, of which they be the only occupant.  both

door be close.



"all be well," he announce softly.  "I return last night.  the

business be finish."



"how much?" Brinnen enquire eagerly.



"there will be forty-five thousand pound.  I could not draw it all

last night, but it will be pay within a week.  I have nine thousand

with I.  six of that I will hand over at any moment you please."



"there be no one in the room," Brinnen murmur suggestively.



Harvey Grimm draw out a pocket-book, run some note through his

finger, and pass they over to Brinnen.  once more the latter glance

around the room.  then with his left hand he produce from the pocket

of his coat a necklace of brilliant, one of which, the centre one,

seem to shine with a faint, rosy light.



"well see what you can do with that," he remark, toss it lightly

across.



Harvey Grimm hold the necklace for a moment in his finger before he

slip it into the concealment of his pocket.  during that moment he

catch an impression of Henriette's eye, full of amazement, fix upon

it.  she turn towards her brother.



"Leopold," she exclaim wonderingly, "I do not remember----"



he brush her word aside.



"you have not see all," he tell she significantly.



Harvey Grimm ring the bell.



"I warn you," he say, "that it will be a few day before I can abandon

civilisation again, even for a task like this."



Brinnen move uneasily in his chair.



"it be work, this," he point out, "which carry with it a special

urgency.  remember that its result will last for a lifetime."



"quite true," be the somewhat grudging admission.  "it also mean

great risk.  I have be as near the end of thing, within the last

twenty-four hour, as I care to be."



the waiter appear with a tray full of cocktail.  Harvey Grimm

accept his and lean back in his chair with a beatific aspect.



"this," he murmur, "be one of the decadent luxury deny to I in

my country seclusion.  like many other thing in life, it be almost

worth while to lose it for a time, for the sake----"



he break off in his speech.  they all lean a little forward in their

chair.  from a side door at the further end of the apartment, lead

to the private suite in the hotel, a lift man suddenly appear, with

a valet upon his heel.  they cross the room with almost feverish

haste.  they be obviously distressed.  a small boy follow, a moment

or two later, with face as pale as death.  there be a confused murmur

of voice just outside the glass door lead to the main portion of

the hotel, and a moment afterwards they reappear with the manager

between they, all talk excitedly at the same time.  then the door

open once more and a woman, tall and dark, in a long dressing-gown of

green silk, rush in.  she throw out her hand towards the manager.



"send for the police!" she cry.  "my husband--he be murder! ... and

my jewel--they be all steal!  the police, do you hear?"



they all vanish through the distant door, the woman cling to the

manager's arm and talk excitedly all the time.  the little party

look at one another.



"that be Madame de Borria, the wife of the South american

millionaire," Harvey Grimm say slowly.



"the woman who wear the necklace with the rose diamond!" Henriette

exclaim breathlessly.



then there be a queer, tense silence.  Captain Brinnen lift his

glass to his lip and finish his cocktail.



"there be more than one rise diamond in the world," he observe coolly.









_chapter VI_  _Paul Brodie Strikes_



Mr. Jacob Potts, blow very hard, and with his tongue protrude from

the corner of his mouth, finish an elaborate signature, pat his

waistcoat pocket, in which he have just deposit a cheque, lay down

the pen, and, lean back in his chair, cross his leg.  he be once

more occupy the distinguished position of be Aaron Rodd's only

client.



"I never think to do it," he declare.  "I never think to part with

'the Sailor-boy' while I be, so to speak, in the prime of life.  it's

'ave the lad turn agin I that's do it.  it show, Mr. Rodd," he

add impressively, "what money will do in this world."



"financially," Aaron Rodd remind he, "you be independent,

absolutely independent of work."



"I know, but what's a man to do?" Mr. Potts reply with a sigh.

"there be plenty down there always to keep I occupy, and those

lad--well, I could have swear to their run straight till that

blarste Dutchman come along.  I tell you, Mr. Rodd," he go on, "I've

do some deal in my life, and I've be up against proposition where

money don't seem much object.  I've 'ad job bring to I which I

wouldn't allow my lad to tackle, where they, in a manner of speak,

thrust a blank cheque down under my nose, but I never in my bear day

know money chuck about like they as be at the back of that

Dutchman be willing to chuck, it about.  why, for an ordinary job, if

my boy get a tenner apiece they think themselves on velvet.  from

wot Tim, my barman, tell I, and he generally nose out wot there be

go abaht, there be two 'undred quid for each of those boy if they

get the young woman on board.  no wonder they be kind of off their

chump!"



"where exactly do they mean to take she?" Aaron Rodd ask.



Mr. Jacob Potts grin.



"I bet she know, sir, and I should 'ave think she'd tell you before

this," he reply.  "give every man 'be due, I say, and for an amateur

that 'ad no more idea than a babe unborn how to put up his duke, I

must say you do fairly let into 'em, Mr. Rodd.  I never seed a man

lose 'old of 'imself so, in a manner of speak, and as for that young

gent as write poetry, why, I'd make a bruiser of 'Im in six month.

'E don't seem to feel pain....  and bein' as we're on the subject of

that scrap, sir, be you above take a word of advice from an old man?"



"I certainly be not," Aaron Rodd assure he.



"if I be you, I should go a bit quiet with the young lady and 'er

friend," Jacob Potts say seriously.  "I've nowt straightforward to

tell agin 'em, and that's a fact, but a bit here and a bit there be

good enough for a man with a level head.  there's three or four of 'er

kidney in this country, and, if I'm not greatly mistook, they're wrong

'un."



"I cann't think that the young lady come altogether under that

designation," Aaron Rodd protest stiffly.  "at the same time, Mr.

Potts, I must admit that her association be mysterious."



"steer clear of they, sir, and take an old man's advice," the

ex-publican beg.  "I've 'ad thing 'inte to I about they that I

shouldn't like altogether to put into words----"



Aaron Rodd see his client out and find an old friend ascend the

staircase.  Harvey Grimm be whistle softly to himself, his hat be

at its usual jaunty angle, his violet be as fresh as ever, his

clothe as carefully brush.  only his expression be different.  he

be almost serious.  he take Aaron by the arm.



"put on your hat, my friend," he say.  "we will walk for a little

time."



Aaron obey and they make their way down to the Embankment Gardens.



"listen," Harvey Grimm begin, look around to be sure that no

passer-by be within hearing distance, "there be such a thing as

tempt Fate a little too far.  I think we have come to the point when

we have well draw in."



"explain yourself, please," his companion beg.



"during the last few week," Harvey Grimm proceed, "I have break up

and cut into different shape nearly a hundred thousand pound' worth

of diamond.  I have actually handle nearly eighty thousand pound in

money.  you and I be fifteen thousand pound each to the good.  our

friend want to go on.  frankly, I've get the funk.  I'd like to cry

off for a time."



"that don't sound like you," Aaron remark.



"perhaps not," his friend admit.  "all the same, I've no fancy for

thrust my neck into the noose.  Brodie don't even know it himself,

but he be hot on the scent last time, he find out, somehow or other,

the very house in which I be live.  we be in the same room.  he

even have I search.  once I see he stare.  I think it be all up.

then his suspicion pass.  it be just the way one of the jewish girl

down there have accept I which put he off, but I tell you, Aaron, it

be touch and go.  then the diamond themselves--there be a stroke of

genius there of which I be proud.  I haven't long to do it either.

where do you think I hide they?"



"no idea."



"of course you haven't!  listen.  I have set they roughly, in common

brass fitting, like a pile of common brooch that be be sell,

and I mix they all up together, let they lie there on the counter of

the little jeweller's shop where I have be do my work and where I

be hide.  Brodie take up some and let they fall through his finger.

I tell you that be the close shave of my life!"



"I think we should be wise to drop it," Aaron declare earnestly.  "we

be off the rock now, Harvey.  I be content with what I've get."



"that's how I'm feel," the other assent, "and yet there's this

last necklace.  it seem rather play it low-down on Brinnen not to

get rid of that for he.  you see, unless it's break up quickly, it's

more dangerous stuff to handle than the other."



"why?" Aaron demand.



"don't be foolish," Harvey Grimm admonish, a little impatiently.

"there's the hotel where it be steal, right in front of you.  here be

I with the necklace, a hundred yard away.  there's Brinnen on the same

floor.  there's Madame de Borria--why, it's a dare-devil piece of work,

anyway."



"you don't mean that it's Madame de Borria's necklace you've get?"

Aaron Rodd groan.



"of course it be!" Harvey Grimm reply, a little testily.  "you see it

yesterday, don't you?  there it be in my overcoat pocket, the pocket

near you, at the present moment."



Aaron Rodd pause abruptly before a bench and sit down.  it be quite

close to where he have first see Henriette.



"look here," he say, "for God's sake, Harvey, jump into a taxi at

Charing-Cross there and take the thing off somewhere."



"take it off?" be the grim response.  "I'd give a cool hundred to be

rid of it at this minute.  the trouble be that if I make a single move

in the direction of any of my haunt, the whole thing will be blow

upon."



"you mean that you be be follow?"



"Brodie haven't be fifty yard away from I since nine o'clock,"

Harvey Grimm mutter.  "Madame de Borria see he yesterday, just after

the theft, and he persuade she to put the matter into his hand.  see

that window--the end one but three on the top storey but two?"



Aaron look up to where the spotless white front of the Milan gleam

through the bud tree.



"I see it," he admit.



"that be the window of Madame de Borria.  now count five window to the

left and one down--that be my room.  now up again, and two on to the

right, and you come to the apartment of Captain Brinnen, know to Paul

Brodie as the redoubtable Jeremiah Sands.  when you add to these

geographical coincidence the fact that the necklace be at the present

moment in my pocket, and that I cann't move a yard without be

follow, you will understand that one need all one's wit this

morning.  we be get just a little near the bone."



"Nearer than you imagine, perhaps," Aaron Rodd whisper.  "here's

Brodie."



Harvey Grimm be, for a moment, curiously still.  his frame seem to

have stiffen into a sort of rigid attention.  one feel that his brain

be work with the same concentrated force.  he neither move nor

look in the direction which his companion have indicate.  instead he

lean a little far back in the corner of the seat and light a

cigarette.



"one need to remember," he murmur, "that it be really quite a long

time since I have see this unwelcome intruder upon our privacy."



Brodie come stroll along the asphalt walk, puff out his cheek

and gaze about he, as though exercise and an interested

contemplation of the river be the sole reason for his peregrination.

he appear to recognise the two man only in the act of pass they.

he at once stop short and greet they in his usual hearty fashion.



"pleasant little spot, this, for an hour's recreation," he declare.

"I be think about you, by the by, Grimm, as I walk along."



"I be flattered," be the calm reply.  "I should have think that all

your attention would have be engross upon the little affair over

yonder.  I understand that Madame de Borria have place the recovery of

her necklace in your hand.  quite a feather in your cap, my friend, if

you succeed."



Brodie glance casually at the block of building in front.



"yes," he assent, "I have that on my mind, of course.  by the by,

be you go back to your room, by any chance?"



"I be on my way there."



"come, that's fortunate.  with your permission, we will walk along

together."



the two man rise and they all stroll along towards the hotel.



"curiously enough," Brodie go on, "I be wonder whether I should

be likely to run up against you to-day, Grimm.  we want to ask your

advice, Inspector Ditchwater and I, about that little affair the night

before last.  you hear the particular, I suppose?"



"I be in the smoking-room," Harvey Grimm admit, "when Madame came

run down in her dressing-gown.  naturally, we hear the story tell

a good many time."



"just so!  Madame, it seem," the detective continue, "hear nothing,

know nothing, until late in the morning, when her maid tell she that

the floor valet be unable to obtain admittance to her husband's room.

she at once step through the communicate door and find he still

unconscious, with the necklace miss."



"have he recover yet?" Harvey Grimm enquire.  "be he able to give any

account of what happen?"



"I see he for a few minute last night," Brodie reply.  "he seem

still very dazed and confuse, but he talk quite coherently.  his

story be simple enough and don't help we much.  he be fast

asleep--he cann't even say at what hour--when he be awaken by the

thrusting of a gag into his mouth and a bandage over his eye.  he

think at first it be a nightmare and he try to spring out of bed.

he be hold down, however, quite firmly, and something place under his

nose which make he feel just as though, to use his own word, he be

sink back to sleep again.  he remember nothing more until the

morning, when he be find by his wife.  the moment they release the

gag he be violently sick, and the room certainly smell ethery."



"what about the necklace?"



"well, the necklace, for some reason or other, seem to have be keep

in a tin dispatch-box in his room.  it be lock, of course, but the

key be under his pillow, a fact which the thief, whoever it be,

seem to have know.  the box be simply open and the necklace take."



"it all sound as though the thief must have be some one stay in

the hotel," Aaron observe.



the detective smile pleasantly upon he.  they have leave the Gardens

now and be approach the back entrance to the Milan.



"the legal mind, Mr. Rodd," he remarked--"the legal mind.  yes, I may

say that we have come to that conclusion ourselves, Ditchwater and I.

some one stay in the hotel, we think."



they pass through the mahogany door and Brodie ring the bell for the

lift.



"by the by, Grimm," he suggest, "have you any objection--you have so

often ask I to have a look at your room here?"



"delighted, I'm sure," the other assent cheerfully.  "we have well

get out on the restaurant floor and take the lift on the other side of

the café.  I be afraid you willn't see they at their good just now.  I

only return yesterday from a week's absence."



"that so?" Brodie murmur.  "say, these little trip away from town

be very pleasant!  I don't seem to be able to get away from my work

often enough.  not that I've be do much good," he confess

dolefully, "during the last few month.  thing have be go rather

against I, Grimm.  I've put in a lot of work and it don't seem to have

pan out accord to expectation."



"too bad!" Harvey Grimm sympathise.  "you're up against a genius,

though, Brodie--there's no question about that."



Paul Brodie nod solemnly.



"I tell you, sir," he declare, "that Jeremiah Sands be more than a

genius.  he have the devil's own luck, too, and I have come to the

conclusion," he add, drop his voice to a confidential undertone,

"that the young lady be almost as clever as he be.  I don't mind

admit," he go on, as they pass through the café and stand

wait for the other lift, "that at one time, Grimm, I be inclined to

think that you'd put it over I--that little affair of the fake

diamond, you know, when we try to make a scoop in Mr. Rodd's office.

I have change my mind, though.  Jerry Sands be too clever ever to

walk into a trap like that.  I guess I do you an injustice there,

Grimm, and you, Mr. Rodd.  thing have be a bit well with you

lately, though, haven't they?" he wind up, a little abruptly.



Aaron Rodd raise his eyebrow.  he have the air of one who consider

the last remark impertinent.



"have they?" he observe coolly.



"no business of mine, of course," Brodie go on.  "Say, be this your

floor, Grimm?"



the lift have come to a standstill and they step out.



"my room be this way," the latter announce.



the little party traverse a corridor, at the further end of which

Harvey Grimm throw open a door, lead through a small entrance-hall

into an octagonal sitting-room, have a pleasant outlook on the

Thames.  a man be stand with his back towards they, gaze out of

the window.  he turn around at their entrance.



"ah, our friend ditchwater!" Brodie murmur.  "you know inspector

Ditchwater, don't you, Grimm?"



"I know he, certainly," Harvey Grimm reply, frown, "but I cann't

imagine what the mischief he be do in my room?"



"perhaps I ought to have explain," the detective say apologetically.

"we have take the liberty, Grimm, of make a few slight

investigation in your apartment."



"the devil you have!" their tenant exclaim, gaze through the

half-open door into the inner room.  "be that the reason why my bedroom

seem all upside down?"



"probably," the detective admitted--"quite probably.  you see," he

continue, "you be, in your way, my friend, an exceedingly interesting

person to the police in this country, as you be at one time, I

believe, to the police of New York.  when a little affair such as we've

be talk about happen only, as it be, a few yard away from your

room, why, naturally, we've some interest in your doing."



"have you anything against I?" Harvey Grimm ask quietly.



"a few question," the other murmur.  "see here, Grimm," he go on,

with a sudden change of tone, "you've be absent from town for exactly

nine day, until yesterday morning.  just where have you spend those

nine day?"



Harvey Grimm move to the sideboard and help himself to a cigarette

from an open box.



"well," he observe, "I'm hang if I can see that that's anybody's

business except my own."



"I will admit, sir," Brodie proceed, "that there be, at the present

moment, not the slight necessity why you should answer that

question--it be, in fact, a matter slightly remove from the immediate

object of our visit this morning--and yet it be a question which I be

go to press upon you, and which, should you feel so disposed, Mr.

Grimm, you might possibly answer with great benefit to yourself.  the

long and short of it be this.  be it worth your while to put yourself

right with the authority and with I, or ben't it?  I tell you, as

man to man, I have a theory of my own about you and your

disappearance."



"I should have think," Harvey Grimm remark, after a brief pause,

"that Inspector Ditchwater, having make himself so free with my

apartment, would have be in a position to have tell you everything

himself.  however, come this way."



he lead they into the bedroom.  a portmanteau, not wholly unpacked, be

open upon the stand.



"my portmanteau," he point out, "which, as you have doubtless already

ascertain from the hall-porter, come back with I the night before

last.  there's the label."



Mr. Brodie turn it over and examine it.



"Exford," he murmur.



"just so," Harvey Grimm assent.  "now what about those two set of

fishing-rod there?"



the detective finger the label and read the address aloud.





    "'_Mr. Harvey Grimm, the Crown Hotel, Exford._'"





"that, of course," Harvey Grimm continue drily, "be not evidence, as

the label be in my own handwriting, but you will find that the golf

club there bear a railway label, I think."



the detective turn the bag around and nod.



"very interesting," he admit, "but Exford--at this time of the year!"



"you're no sportsman, Brodie," Harvey Grimm say reproachfully, "or

you'd know all about the March trout.  just a moment.  come back into

the sit-room."



he lead the way, search for a moment on the sideboard and throw a

Daily Mirror on to the table.  Brodie adjust his eyeglass.  in the

leave-hand corner of one of the inner page be a small picture of a man

fishing, and underneath:--





    _fine catch of Mr. Harvey Grimm, a London sportsman, in the River

    Ex, last Monday._





"quite a good likeness, too," the detective observe, as he lay down

the newspaper.  "say, this be very interesting, Grimm!  it dispose

altogether of one of my theory.  I have no idea that you possess

such simple taste.  I've do a little sea-fishing myself.  well,

well!  still--now, Ditchwater!--you get back in time last night to help

yourself to Madame de Borria's necklace!"



it be all an affair of second.  Ditchwater have suddenly catch Harvey

Grimm's two arm from behind whilst Brodie's hand have dive into his

coat pocket.  the necklace glitter upon the table.  there be a

moment's intense silence.  Brodie be breathe quickly.  there be a

gleam of triumph in his eye.



"dear I," Harvey Grimm exclaim, "fancy your finding that!"



the detective bend over his prize.



"the middle diamond be, without doubt," he announce, "a rose diamond.

quite a peculiar red light.  ditchwater, step round to Madame de

Borria's room.  ask she if she will be so good as to come here at

once."



the inspector disappear.  Harvey Grimm relit his cigarette, take off

his overcoat in a daze way, throw it over the back of a chair, and

hang up his hat.



"I shouldn't bother to do that, Grimm," the detective advise he

quietly.  "I be afraid we shall have to ask you to come and pay we a

little visit.  you've get plenty of common sense, I know.  it ben't

necessary, I suppose, to tell you that there be a couple more man in

the corridor?"



"I've no idea of make a fool of myself," Harvey Grimm reply, "but

do you mind if I help myself to a whisky and soda?  your method be a

little nerve-shake."



the detective step in front of the sideboard.



"Say, I don't believe for a moment, Grimm," he say, "that you're up

against it badly enough for that, but I don't think I'd worry about a

drink just now."



"mix it for I yourself, then," the other suggest.



the detective hesitate for a moment, and then do as he be ask,

keep his back, however, to the sideboard, and reach first for the

whisky and then for the soda-water.



"say when?" he invite courteously, with his hand on the siphon.



"that'll do nicely.  thank you, Brodie.  your very good health!"



Harvey Grimm drain the tumbler and set it down.  almost as he do so,

there be a knock at the door, the sound of voice and Madame de Borria

enter.  the detective have just time to throw a newspaper over the

necklace before she appear.



"you send for I?" she exclaim, turn at once to Brodie.  "tell I,

have you news of my necklace?"



"do you mind just run over its point once more?" Brodie ask.



she make a little grimace.



"I write it all out for Scotland Yard," she remind he patiently.

"the stone be very fine but without any special character.  there be

sixty-three of they, almost equal in size until you come to the front.

it be the front that be so wonderful.  the middle stone be a rose

diamond, the only one in the world which flash a natural pink cross.

there be nothing else like it.  the two on either side be slightly

pink, and there be one yellow one, two place from the middle stone.

but it be the middle stone, Mr. Brodie, that be worth all the rest put

together.  it be the most wonderful in the world.  please do not keep

I in suspense."



the detective lift the newspaper from the table.  it be seldom that

he permit himself any emotion.  there be a slight gesture of

triumph, however, as he turn towards the woman.  she literally spring

upon the necklace, turn it over, gaze at it blankly for a moment and

fling it back upon the table.



"you bring I here to look at this!" she exclaim

contemptuously--"and after you have hear my description, too!  why, my

necklace have twice as many stone, and my rose diamond have the flash of

the cross!"



both Brodie and the inspector stand for a moment as though stupefy,

incapable of speech.  Harvey Grimm throw his cigarette into the hearth.



"Madame de Borria," he say, "I should, perhaps, add my apology to

those which our good friend there be engage in framing.  the necklace

be mine, or rather it be entrust to I for sale.  I be well aware

that it do not resemble your, which I have often see and admire.

Mr. Brodie, however, in his excessive zeal, give I no time for

explanation.  he descend upon my room, seize the necklace from my

overcoat pocket--scarcely a likely receptacle, I think, for steal

good," he add, with a little expostulatory grimace--"and send off

for you."



the lady turn almost savagely upon the detective.



"so this be the way," she say, "you conduct your affair, Mr. Paul

Brodie!  you insult a harmless gentleman whom no one but an idiot could

mistake for a thief, you drag I from my room to look at a necklace

which do not resemble mine in the slight, and meanwhile the thief

get far and far away," she add, with bite sarcasm.  "oh,

you be very busy, be you not, catch he!  you be very near that

two thousand pound!"



she stamp her foot and turn away.  Brodie open the door for she.

his attitude be apologetic--almost cringe.



"Madame de Borria," he say, "I'm sorry.  but two necklace!  who could

conceive such a thing!  rest assure, however, that this be not the

end."



she stride away without another word.  Brodie come back into the room.

he finger the brim of his hat thoughtfully.



"say, be you in the habit of carry valuable necklace about with

you in your overcoat pocket, Grimm?" he ask.



Harvey Grimm take up his stand very deliberately on the hearthrug.



"I be," he announce.  "I also occasionally wear a coronet instead of a

hat, and a suit of armour instead of pyjama.  I do these thing

because I choose, and because it's damned well no one else's business

except my own."



"so you're go to take that tone, be you?" Brodie observe

thoughtfully.



"between ourselves, I think it's time I do," be the prompt reply.

"the soon you make up your mind that I be a harmless individual, the

well.  I tell you openly, within twenty-four hour of make your

acquaintance upon the steamer, that I be an expert in precious stone.

that be how I make my living, and it be perhaps as reputable a way as

your.  the necklace which you have have the impertinence to accuse I

of stealing, be entrust to I for sale, and if at any time there be

any real reason for I to disclose the name of the owner, I would do

so.  at present, however, I consider that I have humour you far

enough.  you will oblige I by leave my room at once and take

Inspector Ditchwater with you."



"so that's the line, eh?"



"that be the line," Harvey Grimm assent, "and what be you go to

do about it?"'



"personally," Inspector Ditchwater decide, turn towards the door,

"I be go to wish you good-morning and offer you my apology, Mr.

Grimm.  we seem to be always in the wrong when we act upon Mr. Brodie's

information, and the report I'm go to make to head-quarter will

perhaps save you any further trouble."



Brodie's face be imperturbable.  he accept the situation, however,

and follow Ditchwater from the room.  the two man leave behind

listen to their retreating footstep.  Harvey Grimm throw himself

into an easy chair.



"so that's that," he observe.  "an exciting quarter of an hour, eh,

Aaron?"



"I be bewilder," Aaron Rodd admit.  "I don't understand, even now.

ben't it Madame de Borria's necklace, then?"



"that one ben't!"



"you don't mean to say that you've get two necklace?"



"feel in the other pocket," Harvey Grimm direct he.



Aaron obey.  from the right-hand pocket of the overcoat which be

hang over the chair, he draw out a second and more beautiful

necklace.  as he hold it before he, the cross flash out from the

rose diamond in the centre.



"Good God!" he exclaim.  "you mean to say that it be here all the

time?"



"of course it be.  I tell you that I be in a tight corner.  he never

give I a chance to hide it.  I know these room would be search.

fortunately, he choose the left-hand pocket of my overcoat instead of

the right."



"what be you go to do with it?" Aaron ask breathlessly.



Harvey Grimm glance at the clock.  it be a quarter to one.



"you shall see," he reply.  "just open the door, will you?  I think I

hear some one ring.  put the necklace away first--in that drawer will

do."



Aaron do as he be tell.  a short, dark man, dress with extreme

care, push past he into the room.  it be the husband of Madame de

Borria.



"I have come," he announce.  "how be the good Mr. Grimm, and what be

the news this morning?"



"the news be," Harvey Grimm tell he, "that the detective your wife

employ have be up here, search for the necklace."



"marvellous!" the little man declare, roll himself a cigarette

nervously.  "how sagacious!  what foresight!  but as to result eh...?"



Harvey Grimm, with a little sigh of relief, thrust his hand into the

drawer, produce the necklace and hand it to the South American.



Mr. de Borria's face glow with satisfaction.



"I have have a leetle trouble with Madame," he announce, "but it be

past.  she agree at last eagerly to the advertisement.  you have see

it?"



Harvey Grimm nod.



"two thousand pound reward and no question ask," he murmur.



Mr. de Borria draw from his pocket a battered and soil cardboard box,

into which he proceed to stow the necklace.



"I make a package here, as you see," he point out.  "I have receive

an anonymous note which make a demand upon my honour that, if I accede

to its term, I destroy it.  it be destroy!"



"the letter----?" Harvey Grimm begin.



Mr. de Borria tap his forehead.



"in the air--in my brain," he exclaim.  "what do it matter?  it be

destroy.  I go to the place name, I produce the two thousand

pound--behold!--and the necklace be mine."



he lay a pocket-book upon the table and draw out a sheaf of note,

which he carefully count into two heap.  one he push towards

Harvey Grimm, the other he replace in his pocket.  then he smile.  he

have the engaging smile of a child.



"so!" he pronounce.  "we be all happy and content.  Madame my wife

will wear her necklace to-night and once more rejoice.  I shall have

that thousand pound in my pocket which be so necessary for a man like

myself in this your great city of gallantry and happiness.  and you, my

dear Mr. Harvey Grimm, who play the burglar and assist I in my

little scheme, you, too, have a thousand pound.  so!  now that all be

well, shall we visit the little lady down in the American Bar?

afterwards, I will take a taxi just to nowhere, and I will come back in

another taxi from nowhere.  I shall break into my wife's room, and she

will hold out her arm to I, and she will have her necklace, and I

have get my thousand pound.  _enfin_!  let we descend."



Harvey Grimm take up his hat and Aaron Rodd follow suit.



"it seem to I," Aaron remark, as he bring up the rear of the

little procession, "that the only man who get nothing out of this be

Mr. Brodie!"









_chapter VII_  _the Infidelity of Jack Lovejoy_



Cresswell and Aaron Rodd be dine with Captain Brinnen and his

sister at a corner table in the Milan Restaurant.  Harvey Grimm have

once more leave they for an unknown destination, and they be all aware

that the period of his absence would be this time more than ever one of

strain.  as though by general consent, however, the conversation do

not touch once upon personal matter.  they speak a good deal of the

war.  Brinnen himself be rouse by sundry reflection into a momentary

bitterness, an expression of that peculiar irritation common to many of

his country-people, notwithstanding their underlying gratitude.



"you people in England," he declare, "you have no perception, no

brain with which to combat a perfectly-develop system of espionage;

nothing but an infinite complacency, an infinite stupidity.  the people

who hate you walk in your midst, unharmed.  even if they be point

out, your official shrug their shoulder and smile in a superior

fashion.  'they can do we no harm,' they assure you.  'there be

reason why we prefer to leave they alone.'  and you be at war, you

people!  ah, if only you would realise it!"



"you be quite right," Aaron Rodd admit.  "we have grow too

accustomed to look upon espionage and secret service as the _bonne

bouche_ of the novelist.  I suppose they do exist."



"they not only exist," Brinnen continue, "but they be become a very

important factor in the progress of the war.  look at this room.  do

you ever see a more cosmopolitan gathering!  there be Belgians,

Russians, Americans.  the two young man who have just come in be

Roumanians, over here no one know why.  this, however, I could tell

you.  if England take no heed of their presence, Germany do.  they

will be watch by Germany until they leave, and, for all your army of

censor, Germany will know, day by day, just what they do.  and, even

near to we, I could give your Secret Service a very useful piece of

advice concern the young man at the third table from here, with the

lady in white spangle."



Aaron Rodd and the poet both glance cautiously in the direction

indicate.  a tall, clean-shaven young man, dark, with big black eye,

a mass of sleekly-brush black hair and rather puffy cheek,

good-look in a stagy sort of way, be entertain an artistically

decorate young ornament of the musical comedy stage.



"you know he, perhaps?" Brinnen enquire.



both man shake their head.



"he be always about here," Cresswell remark, "generally in the bar."



"he be an american actor," Brinnen continue.  "his name on the

programme be Jack Lovejoy.  his real name be Karl Festonheim, and he

be bear in Cologne.  his father and his grandfather, his mother and

his grandmother, be Germans.  he marry a german wife--a negligible

affair, perhaps, as the matrimonial arrangement of those sort of

people be inclined to be, but still it show his tendency.  the man,

like many thousand of other, call himself an American because he

go there as a boy and have live there ever since.  yet every relative

he have life in Germany, every spark of real feeling such a person may

happen to possess, be german, he eat like a German, he live like a

German, he even talk like one.  yet that young man have no difficulty

about passport.  he can live in London, listen to the secret voice of

your nation, and make his way unhindered and unharmed over to Germany

whenever he choose."



"there be, of course, many technical difficulty," Aaron Rodd point

out, "in deal with naturalised Americans, whatever the country of

their birth."



"you be very punctilious over here," Captain Brinnen observe, with

fine sarcasm.  "however, I give that young man as an instance because I

know that certain information concern the whereabouts of three of

your cruiser, early in the war, be convey by he to the German

Admiralty.  I cannot prove this, but I know it.  I also know that

while, if you speak to he, he will tell you that he be out of a job,

that the war have play the deuce with musical comedy, he have refuse

three part within the last month, on some pretext or another, because

he be well occupy."



Stephen Cresswell sit up in his place.  an expectant light shine in his

eye.



"an adventure!" he murmur.



"if you, sir," Brinnen remark, "could develop the sagacity of a

french or German Secret Service man, and fasten upon the life of that

young man, you would probably gain the adventure which you seek."



"I be the very man for the task," the poet declare eagerly.  "I have

stick like a leech to my friend Aaron Rodd here, in the hope of

travel with he a little way into the land where adventure be as

plentiful as gooseberry.  the only one to which he have introduce I

have be highly satisfactory, in its way," he declare, bow to

Henriette, "and the remembrance of it will be a happiness to I all my

life, but one cannot live on one adventure alone.  I be eager for more.

I claim that young man, Rodd, do you hear?  I claim he."



"he be your," the other acquiesce grimly.  "poor fellow!  one be

almost inclined to pity he."



Cresswell smile in superior fashion.



"my dear fellow," he say, "you be, without doubt, a man of energy and

brain, but what you lack be initiative.  Initiative be the gift

vouchsafed to genius.  I have genius, therefore I have initiative.  to

you, the affair connect with this young man appear at present to be

as impenetrable as a blank wall.  you would not know where to start.

Wait.  you shall watch my method."



"in the meantime," Henriette whisper, gaze intently towards the

doorway, "behold, Madame de Borria and her recovered necklace!"



they all turn their head.  the south american woman be on her way

through the room and around her neck flash the light from her

wonderful necklace.  Aaron Rodd lean a little forward in his chair.



"she be soon wear it again," he remark.



Brinnen shrug his shoulder.



"why not?  it be lose only for a few hour.  Madame have the good sense

to follow her husband's advice and to offer that great of lur to

the educate thief--a reward and no question ask.  Madame deserve

to have recover her necklace--and it become she well....  shall we

take our coffee outside?"



they all rise to their foot and leave the restaurant together.  the poet

thrust his arm through Brinnen's and lead he on one side, talk

earnestly.  Aaron be leave alone for a few minute with Henriette.

they find a corner as far as possible from the strain of the

over-persistent band.



"it be three month to-day," he remind she, "since I see you first in

the garden of the Embankment."



"what a memory!" she murmur.  "and I, like the very forward person

you have since discover I to be, make tentative overture to you

with the object of discover whether you be a lawyer not too

squeamish about your client or their business."



his face harden a little.



"be we come soon," he ask, "to the end of your stock--or rather

your brother's stock of jewel?"



"why?" she whisper, look up at he with slightly contract

eyebrow.



"because I be tired of it," he declare frankly, "tired of it in

connection with you, that be to say.  I spend whole day, sometimes, in

a positive state of terror.  Luxury be a small thing compare with

freedom and life.  you have have over forty thousand pound now.  why

don't you take your grandfather somewhere away into the country?  even

if you have to be content with half that sum, you could live on it and

be safe.  let your brother go his own way.  it ben't really worth

while, Henriette."



she look at the point of her slipper carefully for a moment.  she

wear a perfectly plain black velvet gown, and only a single pearl

hang from a strip of black velvet around her neck.  her finger be

ringless.  even her hair be arrange in the simple of coil, yet

there be no one else in the room quite like she.



"Henriette," he go on, lean over she, "if you don't speak I shall

make a fool of myself."



she start, and look timorously into his eye.  then as quickly she

look away again.  her hand clasp the arm of her chair.  she

seem suddenly interested in the orchestra.



"Say--what you be go to say," she beg.



"you know," he obey, almost roughly.  "I be nearly forty year old.

I have no money except the ten or fifteen thousand pound I have make

by help to dispose of your steal jewel, and I'm sick of it all,

sick of it because I've find something in life worth live

differently for.  you know what that be.  leave your brother to live

his own life.  bring your grandfather and come away somewhere,

Henriette, and marry I.  it sound absurd, don't it," he go on, a

little wistfully, "but in a way you've be so kind to I.  you must

have know."



she suddenly lay her hand upon his.  it be a delightful little

gesture.



"please don't say any more just now," she implore.  "I shall remember

every word that you have say, and I don't think I have ever feel so

much like----"



"like what?"



"do what you ask," she continue quickly.  "there!  just now--for a

little time--we must think of other thing.  you see, here come my

brother and Mr. Cresswell.  whatever be Mr. Cresswell go to do?

look!"



the american actor and his companion have take seat almost opposite to

they.  suddenly Cresswell leave his host's side and cross the room

towards they.  with a slight bow he address Lovejoy.  Brinnen, who

have stroll over to where his sister and Aaron Rodd be seat,

smile a little cynically.



"what you call, in your expressive language, rather the method of a

bull in a china shop," he observe.  "I fancy that we shall see our

friend return, a little chasten."



"you don't know Stephen," his friend murmur.  "he have more confidence

than any other man on earth.  look!"



a waiter have be summon to bring a chair.  the poet be seat now

next the young lady, to whom he have just be introduce.  they be

all three chat amiably.  a waiter be receive an order for coffee

and liqueur.



"that be what he call initiative," Henriette whisper.



"the first step be easy," Brinnen remark, "and, after all, one must

remember that Lovejoy be by no mean a clever person.  he be conceited

and bumptious.  well, at any rate we must wish Mr. Cresswell luck."



"I be just ask your sister," Aaron say abruptly, "whether we be

almost come to the end of your hidden store."



the young Belgian glance around for a moment quickly and flick the

ash from his cigarette.



"why?"



"because I be begin to fear the risk more every day for your

sister's sake," Aaron continue steadily.  "our friend Mr. Brodie have

make a good many mistake but he be not an entire fool.  Grimm admit

only the other day that he have track he down to the very place where

he recut the diamond--have be within a few foot of they."



"nothing come of it, though," Brinnen observe, frown.



"it may not be so every time," Aaron Rodd persist.  "I be try to

persuade your sister to be content with small thing.  your grandfather

be very old.  think what the shock would be to he if anything be to

happen to either of you.  put what you have leave in a safe deposit, if

you like, for a time, and start again dispose of they when thing

have blow over a little."



the brother and sister exchange glance which to Aaron be

inexplicable.



"what do Mr. Harvey Grimm say about it?" the former ask.



"oh!  Grimm will go on till he drop," Aaron Rodd declare.

"Adventure, danger, whatever the cost, be the spice of life to he.

but he be just a man alone.  it's a different thing when a girl like

your sister be concern.  it be for her sake that I want to see the

thing close up."



Brinnen drop his eyeglass and rub it for a moment with his

handkerchief.



"you seem to take a great interest in my sister, Mr. Rodd," he say

calmly.



"I have just ask she to marry I," Aaron Rodd reply bluntly.



Brinnen turn slowly around.  he be suddenly like his grandfather.

his eyebrow be a little uplifted.  his expression be the expression

of one who listen to some unthinkable thing.



"Absurd!" he mutter.



"it be nothing of the sort," Aaron Rodd answer simply.  "if your

sister have be guiltily concerned in your adventurous life, I, too,

have turn myself into a receiver of steal property.  we be in the

same boat, only I want to get she out of it.  I have ask she to marry

I and come over to America.  we could start life again on what I have."



she lean over suddenly and speak to her brother in a low tone, and in

a language which be strange to Aaron Rodd.  his expression change a

little as he listen.  then the waiter appear with their coffee and

liqueur.  when they be serve and he have leave, Captain Brinnen

reopen the subject.



"I gather that you yourself, Mr. Rodd," he observe, "have hankering

towards the humdrum life, the life of honesty and the virtue and that

sort of thing."



"I have try for many year to make an honest living," Aaron reply

shortly.  "the only time I ever cross the line be long ago, when

Harvey Grimm and I be in America.  it ben't anything very serious

then.  our present transaction have be my only other essay.  I come

of an old-fashioned New England family, and however one may laugh at

their principle and the narrowness of their outlook, I have those

principle in my blood, and, frankly, I hate this life.  if it's bad

for I, it's bad for your sister.  I want to take she away."



"I will consider what you have say, Mr. Rodd," Brinnen reply.  "for

the present we will, if you please, abandon the conversation."



a little glance of entreaty from Henriette close Aaron's lip.  they

speak of general thing for a few moment.  then Captain Brinnen rise

to his foot.



"I be afraid that I must take my sister away now, Mr. Rodd," he

announce.  "she have an engagement for this evening.  but before we

leave," he add, hold out his hand, "whatever I may feel concern

the proposal you have make, I should like once more to express my

thank for your great courage the other night.  my sister and I owe you

more than we can ever repay."



"your sister," Aaron say, with a boldness which surprise he, "can

repay I if she will."



she look into his eye, and they seem to he large and soft than

he have ever see they.  there be a little quiver at her lip, too,

even though her word be light one.



"you be grow into a courtier, Mr. Rodd," she murmur.  "Au revoir!"



they pass up the stair and Aaron sink back in his chair.  there be

a certain satisfaction mingle even with his disappointment.  at least

he have speak his mind.  then the little group on the other side of the

way arose, and the poet, catch his eye, beckon to he in friendly

fashion.



"this," the poet declare, as Aaron approach, "be my friend Aaron

Rodd.  Aaron, allow I to present you to a lady whom you have often

worship from a distance, Miss Pamela Keane."



Aaron, who have no idea who Miss Pamela Keane be, bent over her hand

and curse the poet under his breath.  the latter, who be thoroughly

enjoy himself, lay his hand upon Lovejoy's shoulder.



"and also to my friend Mr. Jack Lovejoy," he continue.  "Lovejoy be

the one man in London who make I wish that I could write for the

musical comedy stage.  one have one's limitation, alas!"



there follow a few minute' desultory conversation.  then Miss Pamela

Keane pick up a wonderful collection of golden trifle and turn

towards the exit.



"we shall meet again, Mr. Cresswell," she say, smile upon he.  "do

bring Mr. Rodd with you, if he care to come.  Au revoir!"



she turn away, follow by Lovejoy.  the poet link his arm through

Aaron's and demand another liqueur.



"you don't really know the fellow, do you?" Aaron ask curiously.



"not I," he reply, "but, as I have tell you many time, I be a bear

adventurer.  I be equal to any situation.  have I ever mention that I

be also something of a snob?"



"I don't seem to remember the confession."



"well, I be.  I have an aunt who be the wife of a baronet.  I make use

of she occasionally.  in the day of my more abject poverty I use to

go there for a free meal when I have a black coat.  she be by way of

be a patroness of the art, entertain all sort of jumbled up

party.  in all probability Mr. Lovejoy have either be ask to one

of they or wish he have.  hence my self-introduction.  'Mr. Lovejoy,'

I say in my good manner, 'I believe I have the pleasure of meet you

at my aunt's, Lady Sittingley's?'  he hesitate, and I can see that I

have he fix.  he haven't the least intention of ever deny that he

be there, although he don't know I from Adam.  and there you be,

you know.  it's the natural spirit of the adventurer."



"what be that about go on there to-night?" Aaron enquire.



"we be both go, my boy," be the cheerful reply.  "Miss Pamela

Keane be entertain a few friend to _chemin de fer_ at her flat in

Buckingham Gate.  I have explain that I do not play, but we be go

to look in for a glass of wine and a chat.  as a matter of fact, I just

want to cast my eye over Lovejoy's friend, do you see?"



"there's no need for I to come," Aaron Rodd protest.



"there be every need," the poet insist, watch the arrival of the

liqueur with satisfaction.  "I like companionship.  I like some one

with whom to compare impression after such a visit as this.  you may

notice something which have escape I."



Aaron frown a little wearily.



"Captain Brinnen be probably talk quite at random," he remark.

"Lovejoy don't seem to I to be the type of man who'd take a serious

interest in anything except his own pleasure."



"quite right," the other agree shrewdly, "but he might reasonably take

an interest in the mean of procure those pleasure.  and as to our

jewel-collect friend talk at random, I don't believe it.  a man

with a face and a character like his don't chatter.  we'll just

spruce up here a bit and follow they right along...."





the two man spend the next two hour in entirely different fashion.

Stephen Cresswell make a host of new friend with marvellous facility,

flirt with many pretty but unnamed lady, eat _pâté de foie gra_

sandwich and drank champagne as though it be his first meal of the

day.  Aaron, on the other hand, find the customary stiffness of his

manner only intensify by the Bohemianism of his fellow-guest.  the

woman, with their laugh eye, their frankly flirtatious speech,

their general air of good-fellowship and lack of reserve, seem to he

simply intolerable.  every time he think of Henriette, he hate his

surrounding and long for the solitude which, notwithstanding his

effort, he be only partially able to achieve.  to escape the new

acquaintance whom the poet be continually bring up to he, he even

play for an hour.  afterwards, when the room become more crowded, he

escape into a corner and sit look on.  it be exactly the sort of

gather he have expect--a good many young lady from the stage with

their escort, a strong element of the bet fraternity, a theatrical

agent or two, and a sprinkling of those nameless people, always well

dress, always mysterious, who seem to pass through life so easily

without toil or spin.  he be just decide that, so far as the

object of their visit be concern, the evening have be waste, when

Pamela Keane come suddenly across the room and sit down by his side.



"I want to talk to you, Mr. Rodd," she say, throw herself back in a

chair and display an amazing amount of white silk stocking.



"you be very kind," he murmur.



"Mr. Cresswell tell I that you be a lawyer?"



"that be so," Aaron admit, a little startled.



"where be your office?"



"Seventeen Manchester Street, Adelphi," he reply, "third floor."



"can I come and see you at eleven o'clock to-morrow morning?"



"with pleasure!"



"good!  I'll be there.  not a word to Jack, mind.  come and have a

glass of champagne."



he drink his glass of champagne and watch his companion drink three.

then she float off to greet some new-comer and Aaron make his

escape.  the poet call he up in the hall.



"the usual sort of crowd here," he remark, as they leave the house.

"pretty hot lot, some of those bookmaker and jockey, but I don't see

a soul whom I'd ever suspect of get off his own little run.  what

about you?"



"come and see I at twelve o'clock to-morrow morning," be all the poet

could get out of his companion that night....





Miss Pamela Keane be marvellously punctual.  in a blue serge costume

straight from Paris, a hat which be a marvel of simplicity, a

wonderful veil and a wave of perfume, she sweep into Aaron Rodd's room

the next morning as eleven o'clock be strike.  he hand she the

client' chair, into which she sink, a little breathless.



"say, this be some climb," she remark.  "don't you have any elevator

in your office on this side?"



"Plenty," he assure she.  "I have a very small practice and these be

out-of-the way premise."



she lift her veil.  her face be thick with powder and her eye

seem to he artificially brighten.  there be some stuff which he

don't understand upon her lash, and in contradistinction to these,

to he, somewhat ghastly allurement, her expression be hard, she

tone, as she speak, almost rasp.



"see here, Mr. Rodd," she begin, "I have come to talk to you about Jack

Lovejoy.  know anything about I?"



"nothing," he confess.



"I don't suppose you've ever see I on the stage, even?"



"never!"



"so much the well.  I don't want to go to one of these

know-everybody-and-everything theatrical lawyer, who call you 'my

dear' and promise you the earth.  well, I marry a millionaire over in

the States, and I fix thing so that he couldn't get rid of I

without it cost he something.  I've get an income of five thousand

pound a year, Mr. Rodd, and though that ben't the earth, it's useful."



"naturally," he assent.



"I've do more than I should like to tell you for Jack Lovejoy," she

go on.  "of course, we live together, and we're as much married as

the law allow.  he'd got nothing but what he be earn, and that

ben't much, when I take he up.  now he's get his motor-car and

anything he want.  I'm not a changeable woman.  I'm old than he be,

of course, but I'm barely forty, and all I want of Jack be that he

should play the game.  he's not do it, Mr. Rodd."



the lawyer shrug his shoulder ever so slightly.  the question of

Lovejoy's infidelity appear to he profoundly uninteresting.



"I'll tell you how I know," she go on.  "we have a little trouble a

month ago and I've wait for he to come to I for his cheque since,

instead of hand it over.  he haven't be and he's have all the money

he want.  he's get it from somewhere.  what I want to know be

where?"



Aaron be a little more interested.



"Betting?  card playing?" he suggest.



she wave her hand scornfully.



"I know the firm with whom he do his bet, and he owe they a tidy

sum already.  and as to card playing, why, any of 'em would clean he

out in no time.  he haven't the brain of a rabbit.  it's a woman.  he

go to see she every day at six o'clock.  I've find that out for

myself, and I've find out the direction he go in.  for the rest I

have come to you."



"to I?" Aaron exclaim, a little startled.



"yes!  it's part of your job, ben't it?  suppose it be a divorce I

want, I should have to go to a lawyer, shouldn't I?  I'm not

imagine you hang about street corner yourself, but you've get to

employ some one to have he watch, and you've get to begin this

afternoon.  I can give you a start all right from luncheon time.  he'll

bring I anywhere I say--Milan Grill-room, to-day, at two o'clock.  we

shall leave there, perhaps, at half-past three, and he'll drive I

home.  from that point he'll have to be watch.  he may come in for an

hour or he may not, but it's where he go to afterwards that I want to

know.  will you take this job on, Mr. Rodd?"



"with pleasure," he agree.  "it's a little out of my line but I think

I can arrange it."



"then that's that," the lady remark, rise.  "I've get to be at my

dressmaker's at half-past.  ring I up when you've anything to report."



Aaron Rodd bow his client down the stair, go back to his office

and throw the window wide open.  then he telephone for the poet.



"I be go to do a disgraceful thing," he tell he, upon his arrival.

"I'm go to betray a client's confidence."



"would it well out easy with the help of a matutinal?" the poet

suggest, with a glance at the clock.  "my throat's as dry as a

lime-kiln this morning."



Aaron shake his head and tell the story.



"now get at it," he enjoin, as he bundle he out.  "it's your job,

not mine, and I have a letter to write...."





the poet, a few day later, pay an afternoon call.  he ring the bell

of a flat in Northumberland Court, enquire for Mrs. Abrahams, and

after a moment's hesitation be show into a small drawing-room in

which half a dozen people be seat.  the lady who be evidently a

hostess, a large, jewish-look woman, rise from her place on the

couch and regard he with mingled distrust and curiosity.  the poet,

however, who have see Jack Lovejoy in a corner of the room, be not in

the least abash.



"you haven't forget I, I hope, Mrs. Abrahams?" he say, bend

gallantly over her hesitate hand.  "I meet you at my aunt's, Lady

Sittingley's, and you be kind enough to say that I might come and see

you sometime.  I venture to bring you the small offering I promise

you--my poem, bind now, I be thankful to say, with a little more

dignity than when we last meet."



Mrs. Abrahams' face clear slightly but she remain somewhat

disturbed.



"of course!  you be Mr. Cresswell, ben't you, the poet?  I remember

the curious story there be about the beginning of your popularity.

you have really bring I that book?  how charming of you!"



"I have promise myself this pleasure for a long time," Cresswell

assure she.



"let I see," she go on, make room for he by her side, "when be

it that I meet you at your aunt's?"



"I have no memory, even for such inspire event," he confess

ingenuously, "but I think it be about three month ago."



she sigh gently.



"this terrible war," she murmur, "make it difficult to remember

anything.  you will have some tea, Mr. Cresswell?  let I introduce you

to Professor David."



the poet bow to his neighbour and glance around the little circle,

wind up with a nod to Lovejoy, who seem hopelessly out of place.

they be, for the most part, a very gloomy and serious little company.



"I interrupt an interesting conversation, I be sure," the poet

declare genially.  "may it not continue?"



there be a moment's rather awkward silence and Mrs. Abrahams sigh.



"alas!" she say, "I be afraid there be nothing original about our

conversation this afternoon.  it be the war--always the war."



Cresswell balance his plate upon his knee, sip his tea and talk

commonplace nonsense for a quarter of an hour.  then he get up to leave.



"come my way, Lovejoy?" he enquire.



the young actor hesitate for a moment and then acquiesce.  Mrs.

Abrahams bid they both farewell.  she extend to neither of they any

invitation to return.



"rather a heavy sort of crowd for you, ben't it?" Cresswell ask, as

they descend in the lift.



"Mrs. Abrahams be kind to I when I first come to London," Lovejoy

remark, a little vaguely.  "I promise I'd look in there some day and

I happen to be near this afternoon."



"just so," the poet murmur, as they pause at the corner of the

street.  "so long!"



Jack Lovejoy step into a taxi and be drive away westward.



Cresswell cross the road, turn into Whitehall, make his way into a

block of public building, and after half an hour's delay be show

into the presence of an important-look gentleman, who bid he take

a seat and peer at he doubtfully over the top of his eyeglass.



"Sir Lionel," his visitor begin, "I have come to you because I have

some information which should be exceedingly valuable to the home

branch of the Secret Service."



"young man," the official reply, "you be the fifteenth caller within

the last few hour who have bring I information guarantee to save

the empire."



"lucky number, the fifteenth," the poet remark cheerfully.  "do you

happen to know Mrs. Abrahams of Northumberland Court?"



"I know she slightly," Sir Lionel admit.  "she be a friend of

several member of the Cabinet."



"why ben't she intern?" Cresswell demand.  "she be a German."



"her husband be bear in England."



"but she be a red-hot German, all the same," the young man persist.

"I have be make enquiry about she myself and I find that for

year before the war she be do nothing but run down the culture and

custom of this country as compare with Germany."



the official shrug his shoulder.



"there be no information that I be aware of against Mrs. Abrahams," he

say, "and you must remember that she be, as I tell you, a friend of

several member of the Cabinet.  they would not be likely to listen to

anything against she."



"what a country!" the poet sigh.  "what officialdom!  what method of

make war!"



"have you anything against Mrs. Abrahams?" Sir Lionel enquire.



"I have," be the prompt reply.  "I have no proof to offer because I be

an unofficial person and I cannot take those step which be necessary

to procure proof, but I can assure you that every afternoon, from four

till six, Mrs. Abraham's drawing-room in the Northumberland Court be a

bureau for the meeting of various person whose interest be inimical

to this country."



"dear I!" the other exclaim blandly.  "what do they do there?"



"I cann't tell that," Cresswell admit.  "my idea be that they each

bring information of various sort, which Mrs. Abrahams transmit to

Germany."



"ben't that rather an assumption on your part?"



"an assumption with a very definite background," the poet persist,

unruffled.  "for instance, take this afternoon.  Amongst Mrs. Abraham's

visitor be Professor David, who have spend half his life in Germany,

have stump this country lecture on german ideal, and since the war

have maintain a sedulous and enigmatic silence.  there be also

present Mr. Halston, who marry a german and have have to resign his

seat in Parliament owe to his doubtful sympathy; Jack Lovejoy, the

german-american actor; two man, who, from their conversation, be, I

gather, censor; and the Minister of a country whom we all know quite

well to be inimical to we.  these man meet every afternoon.  they

ben't there for fun, be they, and it ben't by chance that they all

have the same point of view."



Sir Lionel stifle what seem suspiciously like a yawn.



"you must forgive I if I seem a little unmoved," he observe, "but we

hear so many of these vague story.  the matter shall be look into,

Mr. Cresswell, but I may as well warn you at once that Mrs. Abrahams

have several friend in the Cabinet, and they be not likely to

countenance any proceeding unfavourable to she."



the poet rise from his chair.



"thank you, Sir Lionel," he say humbly.  "I begin to realise----"



"what?"



"that a friend of a Cabinet Minister in this Government can do no

wrong," the young man declare, pick up his hat.





Aaron Rodd and the poet lunch together the next day at the Milan.

Miss Pamela Keane see they from the other end of the room, where she

be talk to the _maître d'hôtel_ about a table, and at once come

over towards they.



"well?" she ask Aaron Rodd.



"I have some information already," the latter reply.  "I be not in a

position to make a definite report, but if it interest you to know it,

I do not think that Mr. Lovejoy's afternoon philandering be of an

amorous nature."



"say, do you hear that!" she exclaim, her face suddenly lighten.

"if it interest I to know it!  ben't that exactly what I come to you

for?  well, cann't you give I an idea what he be up to, then?"



"not at present," Aaron Rodd regret, "but you might, if you would,

help I with another hint."



"get on with it, then," the lady urge.  "he may come in at any moment."



"can you tell I in which direction his sympathy lie with regard to

the war?"



Miss Pamela Keane be for a moment serious.  then she shrug she

shoulder.



"well, you know," she say, "there be a good many of we Americans who

think that Great Britain's be ask for trouble for some year back.

a little too much of the Lord Almighty, you know.  I shouldn't say that

Jack be overmuch in sympathy with you Britishers."



"that help," Aaron Rodd admit.  "in two or three day at the most I

think I can let you have a report.  so far as I can see at present," he

add, "I think that it will be satisfactory to you."



"say, you're smart than you look, Mr. Rodd," she declare, as she

turn away with a little nod.  "come round and see I any time."



the two man finish their luncheon and walk round to Scotland Yard.

Inspector Ditchwater, for whom they enquire, receive they with some

surprise.



"gentleman," he say, "this be a most unexpected pleasure."



"we have come," Aaron Rodd begin, "to lay certain information before

you which have come to I professionally, and to ask for your aid.  the

fact be these.  a certain Mrs. Abrahams, who be a german woman by

birth, marry to an anglicise German Jew, who be naturalise fifteen

year ago, be in the habit of receive a little circle of friend

every afternoon.  these friend be every one of they of more or less

german sympathy, although they some of they occupy public post in

this country.  one of they, I have reason to know, be receive money

continually from Mrs. Abrahams.  I have no proof of anything, and I be

not in a position to proceed far enough in the matter to secure it.

the authority of the law be need.  my friend here, Mr. Cresswell, have

be to the Home Office and have interview Sir Lionel Rastall.  he,

however, decline to intervene in the matter because Mrs. Abrahams, who

be a woman of a great deal of superficial culture and many

acquaintance, be a friend of several Cabinet Ministers."



"if Sir Lionel decline to interfere," the inspector point out, "what

can we do?"



"get on to the track and find some proof," Aaron Rodd suggest.

"there ben't any one can stop you then from behave in a commonsense

manner."



"and lose our promotion and get snub for our pain," the detective

remark.  "I don't care much about the job, Mr. Rodd, thank you all

the same.  I don't mind tell you that Mrs. Abrahams be on the list

of suspect person keep here, and have be cross off at the special

instruction of a highly-place personage.  it ben't my business to

interfere with she or her doing."



the two visitor withdraw, a little perplexed.  the poet, however, be

undaunted.



"my friend," he say, "this be to be my adventure and I tell you I've

a trump card leave yet.  come along."



they pay one more call at a large and impose establishment no great

distance away.  after a wait of nearly an hour, an orderly come in.



"the Chief will see you and your friend, Mr. Cresswell," he announce.

"be as quick as you can, please."



the poet, who love word, show that he know how to dispense with

they.  he shake hand with the somewhat grizzle-look, handsome

soldier who welcome they.



"this be my friend Mr. Rodd, a solicitor," he say.  "Sir Horace, I

have put my hand by accident upon a nest of conspiracy within a quarter

of a mile from here.  the Home Office or the police willn't touch it

because the woman chiefly concerned be _persona grata_ with Cabinet

Ministers.  will you take it on?"



"I will," Sir Horace promise, "if there's anything in it.  get on with

your information."



"the woman's name be Abrahams, and she have a flat in the Northumberland

Court," the poet continue.  "I follow a young man there the other

afternoon, who be bear a german but call himself an American.  Mrs.

Abrahams be entertain a small party of friend, every one of whom

be of german sympathy, although two be employ as censor by his

Majesty's Government.  the young man I follow be draw money from

she nearly every week, and spend most of his spare time motor round

London with one of the new naval air defence commander."



"that all?"



"pretty well," the poet admit, "but there's espionage work go on

there every afternoon."'



"sound probable," the other agree.  "now what do you want I to do?

I cann't raid the place without more information."



"lend I two man and I'll take the risk of something turn up," the

poet beg.



Sir Horace scribble a few line on a piece of paper.



"get out with you," he say.  "my regard to your aunt.  show this to

the orderly in Room C and he'll give you a couple of plainclothe

policeman."



the poet grip Aaron Rodd's arm triumphantly as they step outside.



"a man!" he exclaim.  "a man at last!" ...



it be two day before anything fresh happen.  then, about half-past

five in the afternoon, Aaron Rodd and the poet, who have wander round

by the front of the Northumberland Court to see that their watcher

be in position, almost run into the arm of a huge, roughly dress

man, with close-cropped brown beard, a man who look ill-at-ease in

his clothe and walk with a rolling gait.



"my God!" the poet mutter.  "it's the Dutchman!  come on, Aaron."



they turn round and follow he at a short distance.  he enter the

Northumberland Court.  they follow he, a few minute later, and

Cresswell address the hall-porter, whom he know slightly.



"my name's Cresswell," he say.  "I'm on a Government job.  tell I

what flat that man ask for who have just go in?"



"number sixty-seven, sir," the man replied--"Mrs. Abrahams'."



"seen he here before?"



"he come about once a week, sir, generally on a Sunday."



"I shalln't move from here," Cresswell declare, turn to his

companion.  "I shall hold on to that chap myself if he come out before

we can get the man together.  will you hurry, Aaron?  there's one at

the corner of Parliament Street."



"and the other's here," a quiet voice say behind.  "it's all right,

Mr. Cresswell.  I've send for Jimmy.  I see that man go in.  know who

he be?"



"I do that," the poet assent.



"his ship's be search twice," the inspector go on.  "we have a

Secret Service man on board the last time they cross.  nothing be

discover, but he's under suspicion.  when I see he turn in here, I

think thing might be come our way."



"inspector," Cresswell ask eagerly, "your power will allow you to

hold he, willn't they?"



"I think I'll have to stretch they a bit, sir," the man reply.

"we'll wait till he come out.  you'd well let the hall-porter get an

extra constable.  this Dutchman be a pretty difficult customer to

tackle."



the hall-porter, who have be divide between curiosity and

nervousness, depart with alacrity.  the man spread themselves out a

little.  the poet and Aaron Rodd affect great interest in the

lighting of cigarette.  a small boy in button eye they with immense

inquisitiveness.  there be something up!  he whisper the news to the

lift-boy, who have stroll out for a breath of fresh air.  a ripple of

electrical interest thrill the group.  the hall-porter return, an

unwilling constable in the rear.



"what's this?" he enquire of the elder of the two plain-clothe man.

"I cann't leave my beat unless there's a charge."



the man show he a badge.  the constable salute.



"wait just outside," the former whisper.  the hall-porter suddenly

thrust his head through the swing door.



"Party you're enquire for, sir, have just come out of number two," he

announce.  "he's step into a taxi."



there be a rush for the door, which the poet lead.  the taxicab be

disappear round the corner as they reach the entrance of the next

block of flat.  the hall-porter, still dangle his whistle, watch

their approach with amazement.



"what address--that taxi?" the inspector ask quickly.



"Monico's, Shaftesbury Avenue."



"another taxi, quick!"



the man blow his whistle.  a taxicab from the rank obey the summon.



"the fellow cann't suspect anything if he's really go to the Monico,"

the inspector observe.



they all crowd into the vehicle.  in a few minute they be at the

café.  the poet give a little sigh of relief as he peer eagerly

around.  somehow or other, he feel that this be his own special

adventure and that the onus of its success rest upon he.  at a table

a little way in the room the Dutchman be seat, with a huge tumbler

of what seem to be brandy and water in front of he.  he be in the

act of strike a match to light a cigar which be already in the

corner of his mouth.  suddenly his eye fall upon the poet.  a vague

sense of recognition, couple with a premonition of danger, seem to

oppress he.  his frame seem to grow tenser.  even underneath his

clothe one could fancy that his muscle be stiffen.  he watch

the four man approach, and those few of the neighbouring lounger who

chance to be look that way, hold their breath.  the atmosphere

around seem to have become electric.  the inspector stand by the

Dutchman's table.  although he be not in uniform, his official bearing

be unmistakable.



"I want you, my man," he say.  "you must come with I to the

police-station."



"why?"



"I be act under special order," the inspector tell he.  "I can

satisfy you as to my authority.  the thing be, be you come quietly?"



apparently the Dutchman be not, for pandemonium ensue.  the inspector

be no light-weight and he be on guard, but his adversary's rush be

irresistible.  he went crash over against an opposite table and the

Dutchman's left fist send the second man prostrate.  the inspector,

however, be not yet do for, and Aaron Rodd and Cresswell suddenly

spring simultaneously into the fray.  man and woman leapt from their

table.  there be shriek, a crash of break glass.  the policeman,

who have be knock down, stagger to his knee and blow his whistle

furiously.  the Dutchman, kicking, shake, even try to bite the

poet's finger, which have somehow seize his throat, drag his

assailant yard by yard towards the door.  the whole place be in an

uproar.  suddenly the swing-door be push open.  two uniformed

constable hurry in.  even then the Dutchman do not abandon the

struggle.  he wrench himself almost free from the three man who have

momentarily relax their hold, deal the lead constable a terrific

blow, which only just miss the side of his head, and knock his

helmet into pulp.  that, however, be the end.  the other constable be

a powerful fellow and within thirty second the Dutchman be

handcuffed.  there be a crowd now upon the pavement.  the Dutchman,

his face cover with blood and his eye glare like the eye of a

wild animal, be bustle into a taxi.  Aaron and the poet be leave

behind.  they be neither of they much the bad for the struggle, but

Aaron's collar be tear to piece and the poet's coat have be rip

down one side.  a waiter be hover around they admiringly.



"bring you something to drink, gentleman?" he suggest.



they drink a brandy and soda each.  then the poet rise.  he be

conscious of various bruise but he be very happy.



"home and seclusion, I think, for a time, my friend," he say.  "what a

heavenly scrap!"



      *      *      *      *      *



late that evening, a very immaculately dress young man of most

superior appearance discover the poet in an easy chair in his club,

await the midnight rush of journalist and actor.  the young man

present a card.



"you will find my name there, sir," he say, "and also the Service on

behalf of which I pay you this visit."



Cresswell scrutinise the card and sit up in his chair.



"have a drink?" he suggest.



his visitor beg to be excuse.



"the Chief ask I to find you at the early possible moment," he

announce, "to first of all express his thank and the thank of his

department for your valuable service."



"have the Dutchman get the good on he?" the poet ask eagerly.



"he have indeed!  he be carry document of high importance which

be obviously destine for our enemy," the young man say.  "their

content be to a certain extent a secret, and I be to ask you to add

to your service by allow the matter to slip from your memory."



"what's go to become of Mrs. Abrahams?" Cresswell enquire.



"we receive an indirect suggestion to-night from the Home Office," the

young man reply, "that the lady in question should be caution.  if

it be any relief to you, let I assure you that my chief be not the

sort of man to listen to such tosh.  the lady will be intern,

whatever her friend may attempt on her behalf.  two of the other

people implicate, both in the censor's office, I regret to say, will

be shoot.  you appear to have discover a bureau which exist for the

purpose of collect and dispatch abroad, every week, various item

of information likely to be of service to our enemy."



"what'll the Dutchman get?"



the young man hesitate.



"I have already somewhat exceed my latitude," he say gravely.  "May

I ask you to consider what I have say in confidence, to forget this

little adventure, and never again in this life to worry about the

Dutchman?"



"I willn't," the poet promise, with a chuckle.  "by the by, what about

Jack Lovejoy?"



"there be a reference only to some promise information from a person

whom we conclude to be that young man," be the reply.  "he have be

ask to leave the country within twenty-four hour."



the young man take his leave and a few moment later Aaron Rodd

appear.  he be wear a pearl pin of wonderful quality, which the

poet eyed curiously.



"a little farewell present," the former explain, as he settle down,

"from Miss Pamela Keane."









_chapter VIII_  _the Yellow Eye_



at a few minute before the popular dining hour, Aaron Rodd, having

select a table, order, in consultation with the chief _maître

d'hôtel_, a small dinner, and possess himself of a theatre guide, sit

in the reception lounge of the Carlton Grill-room, await the arrival

of Henriette.  there be a mirror exactly opposite to he, and as he

sip his cocktail he catch a glimpse of his own face.  he set down

his glass, momentarily startle.  somehow, it seem to he like be

bring face to face with the ghost of his youth.  he rise to his foot

and lounge over towards the mirror on the pretext of examine some

illustrate paper.  in the interval of glance at they, he look

furtively at his own reflection, try to account for the change he

see there.  at the poet's earnest solicitation he have visit a

first-class tailor, have buy the right shape of collar, have learn to

tie his evening bow with the proper twist.  a personally conduct

visit to a fashionable hairdresser have follow, and his fine black

hair, no long rag and unkempt, be brush back from a face which

seem, even to its owner, to have change in some marvellous way

during the last few month.  he be, without a doubt, young.  there

be a new expression about his lip, from which the hardness seem to

have go, and, curiously enough, he be conscious that notwithstanding

all his anxiety, never more poignant than at this particular moment,

life have take a sudden and sympathetic turn with he.  since the

come of Harvey Grimm, he have at last be lift up from that weary

rut of depression and ill-being; but since the coming of Henriette, he

have be transport bodily into the world where human being live,

where the flower have a different perfume, and the sun shine always,

even if sometimes from behind the cloud.



"but you, then, also be vain!" a rather surprised, very amused voice

exclaim almost in his ear.  "why, you remind I of Mr. Cresswell,

stand there preen yourself before the mirror!"



for a moment he feel almost embarrassed.  then he smile as he bend

over Henriette's finger.



"I be wonder," he confess, "what could have bring so great a

change into my life--and then you come."



her eye soften as she look at he.  her lip part.  she study

he for a moment apprisingly.



"you be change, you know," she decide.  "you look young.  you

seem, somehow, to have move from one world into another.  you be

look very melancholy that first day when we meet in the Gardens.  I

do not think that adventure have disagree with you."



"if one could only stop they now!" he exclaim eagerly.



she lay her finger upon her lip.  the _maître d'hôtel_ stand bow

before they.



"Madame will come this way?"



Henriette approve of the table, approve of the dinner, approve of

her companion.  as for Aaron Rodd, the shadow which sometimes

terrify he seem to have pass far away into the background.  he

be deaf and dumb to the voice and glance of their neighbour,

attract by his companion's unanalysable elegance, her aristocratic

little face with its flawless complexion, her little air--foreign,

perhaps, but all the more attractive--of quaint, individual

distinction.  she wear no ornament except the pearl which hang from

her neck.  her hair, to his untutored eye, might have be arrange

with her own finger.  her gown, as always, be black, this time of

chiffon, and it be not for he to know that its simplicity represent

the last word in fashion.  he simply find she adorable, and dinner be

almost conclude before she utter a little cry.



"why, we have not yet decide what theatre to go to!"



he send for a messenger.



"do try," she beg, "and get some seat for the _Casino_.  I want so

much to see the revue."



the boy bring they a plan of the theatre, and Aaron secure a small

box.  very reluctantly they leave their table a short time later.



"I have love my dinner so," she declare, as they sit together in the

taxi.  "I think that I be get greedy, everything taste so good."



"and I think that I, too, be greedy," her companion whisper, lean

towards she, "because I want so much--even the great thing in the

world could have to offer."



she suddenly clutch his arm with her white finger, draw it tightly

to she.



"hold my finger, please," she beg.  "sit just like this.  don't let

we spoil anything.  will you be content, please?"



he lean a little towards she.  her eye be half plead with his,

half doubtful.



"I will be content," he promise, "if..."



she draw away from he a moment later.



"I do not mean to let you kiss I," she declare naively.



"I mean to if I could," he confess.



she laugh a little hysterically, but not unhappily.



"let we pretend that we have behave like a couple of bad child,"

she say, "because we must not just now talk of these thing.  that be

just a slip."



"a slip," he repeat.



"a very wonderful, delightful slip," she murmur.  "and here we be."



they find themselves soon in a little box, small even for two people.

Henriette settle down, almost from the first, to enjoy the

performance.  she laugh at the whimsical Frenchman, applaud the

versatile lead lady, enter with wonderful facility into the spirit

of the place.  and then, some half-hour after their entrance, Aaron

Rodd feel the finger which he be hold under cover of a programme

suddenly twitch.  he glance up.  to his amazement, all the joy and

light-heartedness have pass from her face.  her feature seem as

though they might have be carve out of a piece of ivory.  her lip

be a little part, her eye fill with fear.  she be gaze with

strange intensity upon the figure of a girl who, herald by much

applause, have suddenly bound on to the stage.  he lean towards she.



"be anything wrong, Henriette?" he ask softly.



she rouse herself a little.



"yes!" she whisper. "that girl--do you see what she be

wear--around her neck?"



he glance down on to the stage in puzzled fashion.  the girl in

question, French and a new-comer, who be singe a little song of the

boulevard with a good deal of appropriate action, wear no jewellery

except a single rather curious yellow stone, suspend from her neck by

a platinum chain.



"you mean that yellow thing?"



she look at he in surprise.



"but of course you do not know!" she exclaim.  "that be the great

yellow diamond.  it belong to----"



"to whom?" he interrupt eagerly.



"to Leopold's--to my brother's collection," she explain hesitatingly.



he be puzzle for a moment.  then the sense of her word, and their

import, begin to dawn upon he.



"you mean that the stone be amongst those that your brother have

acquire?" he continue diffidently--"one of those he have not yet try

to have recut?"



"yes!" she murmur.



there be a moment's embarrassed silence.  Henriette be obviously

distraught.  she watch the rather fascinating figure upon the stage

with strained eye.



"it ben't," she go on, turn abruptly to her companion, "that I

mind if Leopold choose to amuse himself.  he have probably lend the

girl the diamond for her first appearance.  I see that it be her debut

to-night.  it be not that.  but he be so rash, so daring.  that stone

be know throughout the world--its history, its description have be

publish everywhere.  why, if there be anyone in the house who know

anything of the history of gem, they will recognise it.  it will be

trace--so easily trace to Leopold.  oh, what folly!  I must go and

see she.  I must go at once!"



she rise to her foot.  they draw a little into the background of the

box.



"I be afraid it will be rather difficult," Aaron Rodd warn she.



"it must be arrange," she insist.  "we will go together and find

some one at the box office who will take a message round."



they spend a more or less uncomfortable ten minute at the box office,

where they be assure that, owe to the smallness of the theatre,

visit to the artiste be not permit.  the manager at last

appear and begin an explanation on similar line.  Henriette

interrupt he.



"Monsieur," she beg, "it be a great exception.  there be something

which Mademoiselle should know, something which it be very important

for she to know, and I be the only person who can tell she.  you will

make an exception, please, this once?"



the manager be quite human and a person of discrimination.  he make no

further difficulty.



"if you will both please follow I," he invite.  "Mademoiselle Larilly

have just go off."



he lead they by a tortuous way to the back of the stage and knock at

the door of a room.



"_Entrez!_" be the shrill response.



their guide usher Henriette and Aaron Rodd into a tiny little

apartment, prettily furnish notwithstanding the bare floor.

Mademoiselle Larilly be stand before a pier-glass, admire

herself.  she sweep round at their entrance.



"Madame?" she murmur in surprise.



the manager speak a hasty word or two of explanation, in French, and

disappear.  Henriette wait until the door be close.  then she

turn to the girl.



"Mademoiselle," she say, "I owe you, perhaps, an apology for this

unusual visit.  I come for your sake as well as my own and another's.

will you tell I, please, who lend you the diamond which you wear?"



the girl hold it tightly to her bosom:



"it have not be lend to I," she declare.  "it be give."



"but that be not possible," Henriette protest.  "do you know that the

jewel you be wear be worth nearly a million franc?"



the girl start but she simply shrug her shoulder.



"oh, la, la!" she exclaim.  "what do I care?  it be give I by a

gentleman, not an Englishman, and no one have any right to ask I

question about it.  I do not receive here, mademoiselle.  I have but a

few minute to rest.  if you would please go."



Henriette make effort to modify the haughtiness of her tone, the air

of aloofness with which she seem shroud.



"Mademoiselle Larilly," she say, "I will not believe that you wish

evil thing to the gentleman who lend or give you that jewel, yet,

believe I, you will bring harm upon he if you wear it in public.  you

will bring a great--the great of all misfortune."



the girl open her hand a little and gaze at the gem.  she shake she

head.



"that I cannot help," she decide.  "it be his affair.  he must know

well than you.  I promise he to wear it.  he may even be here

to-night.  I shall keep my word."



"Mademoiselle----" Henriette begin.



then the word die away on her lip.  the door of the dressing-room

have open and close without any knock.  Mr. Paul Brodie stand there,

suave and with a little smile upon his lip.  he bow politely--a

gesture which seem to include every one.  Mademoiselle Larilly

glance at he contemptuously.



"but who allow you to enter?" she demand.  "I do not receive here.

I will send for the manager.  it be an impertinence when people come to

my room without permission."



Mr. Brodie hold out his hand deprecatingly.



"Miss Larilly," he beg, "pray do not disturb yourself.  I be one of

those who must go anywhere they choose, at any time."



"indeed!" she exclaim indignantly.  "you be not the owner of the

theatre or the author of the revue, and I do not know you.  I beg you

to leave at once."



"young lady," Mr. Brodie continue, his eye fasten upon the gem

which hang from her neck, "I have not the good fortune to be either of

the gentleman you mention, but I represent a force which have to be

reckon with by law-abide people.  I be of the police."



she stand quite still.  once more her hand clutch at the jewel which

rest on her bosom.



"the police?" she repeat.  "but I do not understand!  what do

you----what do the police want with I in my room?"



"now come, Miss Larilly," Mr. Brodie go on soothingly, "it's nothing

you need worry about.  I just want your permission to examine the jewel

which you be wear."



"no!" she refuse sharply.  "no one shall do that.  the jewel have be

lend to I, lend to I on one condition--that I permit no one to touch

it."



"look here, young lady," Brodie protest, quietly but forcibly, "I

don't want to make any disturbance, and I'd soon deal with this

matter in a friendly fashion.  all the same, if you're out for trouble,

I can soon bring you plenty of it.  come, it willn't take you long to

slip that off your neck."



she begin to look a little frightened.  she glance towards Henriette

as though for guidance.  Henriette, however, seem almost on the point

of break down herself.  she have sink into the chair which Aaron have

fetch.



"courage," Aaron whisper in her ear.  "that brute be watch you."



Brodie have draw close to Mademoiselle Larilly.  she hold her hand

tightly against her bosom.



"if you come a step far," she cry, "I will shriek!  I will call

the artiste to defend I--the manager!  you must come to I when I be

not play, if you would ask question."



"young lady," the detective say with a new sternness, "you can call

the manager, if you will, and I shall repeat to he what I say to you.

if you do not suffer I to examine that jewel, I shall stop the

performance and have you take to the police-station."



she be obviously terrify now.  the rouge upon her cheek seem like

a great daub of red.  she set her tooth, her hand fly apart.



"it be a miserable country!" she exclaim passionately.  "in France

this could not happen.  look, then, at the stone, and go, but

remember--I will give it up to no one.  if you take it, you must drag

it from my neck and I will follow you, shriek, even on to the stage.

I will not be rob!  how do I know that you be of the police?  you

may be a thief yourself!  the stone--I tell you that it be worth a

fortune."



"I can well believe it," Brodie assent calmly.  "one moment, if you

please."



he hold the stone in the palm of his hand and fit a magnifying glass

into his eye.  there be a moment's silence.  Henriette suddenly

grip her companion's hand.  Mademoiselle Larilly stand there,

pant, her bosom rise and fall quickly.  there be murder in her

eye.  presently Brodie let the stone fall, replace the magnifying

glass in his pocket.  he stand, for a moment, as though think.  then

he turn towards the door.



"Miss Larilly," he say, look back at she, "my apology.  the

bauble which you be wear be a worthless piece of yellow crystal,

worth, perhaps, twenty pound.  I be deceive--as be, perhaps, the

young lady over yonder," he add with a little ironical bow--"by a

wonderful resemblance."



he close the door quietly behind he.  there be a queer silence in

the room.  Henriette be deathly pale.  relief and bewilderment be

struggle in her face.  the french girl's expression have become

electrically transform.  with a sudden little gesture she lean

towards the closed door.  her hand flash in front of her face.  she

gesture be significant if vulgar.



"it be worth twenty pound, my bauble, be it?" she mock.  "and he

think, that big, ugly man, that I would come on to the stage with a

bauble round my neck worth twenty pound!  eh, but he be not a

gentleman of France, that----!"



an inner door suddenly open.  Leopold Brinnen appear, and behind

he the tall, slender figure of Monsieur Larkson, the lead French

actor in the revue.



"with your permission," Brinnen begin, bow to Mademoiselle

Larilly....  "Henriette!"



he stop short in amazement.  Henriette rise to her foot and come

towards he.



"Leopold," she exclaim, talk to he rapidly in French, "what have

you do?  how dare you, for all our sake, run these awful risk!  if

the man Brodie have not be a fool, if he have know anything of jewel,

if he have not be blind, where should we have be at this moment?  do

you think they would have let mademoiselle go until she have tell from

whence come the Yellow Eye?  oh, but you be so reckless!  take it away

from she quickly!  hide it!"



Leopold listen to her word a little gravely.



"will you tell I, my sister," he enquire, "what you be do here?"



"I have dine and be spend the evening with Mr. Aaron Rodd," she

explain.  "we sit in the box here and I recognise the Yellow Eye.  I

hurry here.  Mademoiselle receive I.  I beg she to take it off, not

to wear it.  I warn she that there be danger.  she scoff at I.  and

then Brodie come.  but that man--he must be mad!  he hold the stone in

his hand."



the young man smile quietly.  then he listen at the door which lead

into the passage and softly turn the key.  he glance towards

mademoiselle.



"ah, but if you all will," she exclaim, "behold!"



her hand disappear for a moment down her back.  she throw the

platinum chain and stone which she be wear, on to the

dressing-table.  in a moment another flash upon her bosom.



"you see," she go on, "how simple!  I obey.  on the stage I wear

that great beautiful stone, and even before I have reach my room, in

the passage, the other hang in its place."



Leopold Brinnen smile amiably.  nevertheless, he be a little

apologetic as he turn towards his sister.



"it be that man Brodie," he sigh.  "he be so persistent and yet he

have not the wit for success.  he weary I with his blunder.  this

be just a little lesson."



"a little lesson," Henriette repeat reproachfully, with a sob in her

throat, "which might have cost us----"



he wave his hand.



"ah, no, little sister!" he protest.  "you take too gloomy a view.

even Paul Brodie," he continue, lower his voice so that it be

inaudible at the other end of the room, "have not yet succeed in

forge the miss link between Jeremiah Sands and Captain Brinnen of

the Belgian Artillery.  you permit now, madame," he go on, turn

back to the other, "that I present to you my sister and Monsieur Aaron

Rodd.  Mademoiselle Larilly," he explain, "be the wife of Monsieur

Larkson here, whom I take the liberty also to present.  what do you

say?  which stone shall mademoiselle wear when she sing she next song?"



"one may play with fire a little too long," Aaron Rodd observe.



"Leopold!" his sister implore, clasp her hand.



the young man bow.



"it shall be as you will," he promise, hold out his hand and

accept the stone which Mademoiselle Larilly be eagerly press

upon he.  "into my pocket with this one, then.  Madame shall dance for

the first time in her life with a worthless bauble around her throat,

but there shall be a recompense.  I insist.  we will all sup together

at Giro's.  you agree?  and you, Rodd?  my sister," he add, "will, I

be sure, be delighted to see more of you, madame, and your husband."



"it will give I the great pleasure," Henriette assent.



a call boy came shout down the passage.



"Giro's at eleven-thirty," Brinnen remind they all.



"it shall be au revoir, then, madame!" Henriette say, as she pass

through the door which Aaron be hold open for she.



      *      *      *      *      *



there be a great relief in Henriette's face as she lean back in the

dark corner of the box and close her eye.  the atmosphere of the

evening, however, have depart.  she be no long full of that

quivering, electrical gaiety.  she watch the rest of the performance

with interest and talk now and then to Aaron, but their homeward

drive afterwards be perform almost in silence.  she rest she

finger in his and lean back.



"forgive I if I rest," she murmur.  "I be terrified.  I shake now

when I think of that moment."



"it be all over now," he remind she.  "try and be quiet for a little

time."



presently she sit up.



"listen," she say, "it will be half an hour at least before they can

arrive at Giro's.  Madame must change she toilette."



as Madame's last toilette have be one of pink silk, in which there be

very much more stocking than skirt, the suggestion seem probable.



"what would you like to do?" Aaron ask.



"I would like to call back at the Milan," she beg.  "I nearly always

see my grandfather for a moment before he go to sleep; and I can rest

and bathe my eye.  you will not mind wait?"



"of course not!"



he redirect the driver and they draw up, a few minute later, at the

Milan.  she descend at the Court entrance and cross over at once to

the lift.



"I will not ask you up," she say.  "I shall find you here, perhaps,

in--say, ten minute?"



he assent and buy an evening paper.  in less than the time she have

state, the lift stop and she reappear.  to his surprise she have

take off her hat.  she come towards he with a strange look in her

face.  he could see the tear quiver in her eye.



"dear friend," she whisper, "be kind to I.  I have have a great blow.

my grandfather die this evening while we be away--only an hour ago."



he murmur an eager word or two of sympathy.  she lay her hand upon

his arm.



"will you go, please, at once to Giro's," she beg he, "and tell

Leopold?  try and prevent he, if you can, enter the supper-room.

there be so many thing that will happen now," she go on.  "please

go quickly.  see!"



she raise her finger to his lip.  he catch they and kiss they.

then she turn away and he hurry outside, jump into a taxi and

drive to Giro's.  Leopold Brinnen and a little party of guest be

stand in the hall.  the former frown as he enter alone.



"where be my sister?" he demand.



Aaron take he by the arm.



"Captain Brinnen," he say, "I be sorry, but I be the bearer of bad

news.  your grandfather die this evening."



the young man stand perfectly still for a moment.



"dead!" he mutter.  "poor fellow! ... dead!"



inside the room the music be crash, and the hum of conversation be

already swell to a tumult.  a couple of early dancer be whirl

round the room.  Brinnen turn to his guest.



"I be so sorry," he explain, "Mr. Rodd here have bring I bad news.

a near relative of mine have die suddenly.  you must excuse my joining

you.  Luigi will serve the supper."



there be a little murmur of sympathy.  his bohemian friend crowd

silently around he.  one by one they shake his hand--a queer little

function.  then he turn away and stand for a moment on the pavement

outside, Aaron Rodd by his side.



"Mr. Rodd," he say, "my grandfather's death may make a difference in

many way."



Aaron Rodd straighten himself.  he be never sure of the demeanour of

this young adventurer, who seem for the most part to treat life as a

jest.



"in what way?" he ask.



Brinnen reply with a question.



"can you communicate with Mr. Harvey Grimm?"



Aaron shake his head.



"I do not even know where he do his work.  forgive I for remind

you," he add, "that your sister be in great distress."



the young man step into a taxi.



"it be necessary that I see Harvey Grimm as soon as possible," he

insist.



"Harvey Grimm willn't be hurry over his work," Aaron declare.  "for

your own sake he be well out of sight until it be conclude.  shall I

tell the man to go to the Milan?"



Brinnen nod.  he lean out of the window for a moment, however,

before the cab start.



"Mr. Aaron Rodd," he say, "do you mind if I speak to you for a moment

with perfect frankness?"



"not in the least," Aaron assure he promptly.



"in some respect," Brinnen continue confidentially, "I be inclined to

like you, but on the whole I have come to the conclusion that you be a

very simple fellow.  that be all!"









_chapter IX_  _the Vengeance of Rosa Letchowiski_



the small boy assume an air of vast importance.  he lean over the

counter and with mysterious gesture arrest the progress of his

cousin through the shop.



"Rosa, I've get something to thay to you, motht important," he

announce.  "come right over here."



she pause and swing around a little unwillingly.  her scarlet underlip

be thrust outward.  she walk with her hand upon her hip, not averse

to impress even this young cousin of hers with all the allurement

of her slipshod finery.



"I thay, Rosa, you look fine," the boy declare admiringly.  "lithen

now.  you tell I to keep my eye open, if ever I should see any more

of Mr. Levy, eh?"



the girl's face be suddenly alight.  she move close to the counter.



"you've hear of he?" she exclaim eagerly.  "you know where he be?"



the boy nod many time.  he place a finger upon his lip, in his

eye be the glint of avarice.



"you promithe I a shilling," he remind she.  "I work hard.  I

know now just where he ith.  you can see he for yourthelf.  it's worth

a shilling, Rosa, eh?"



the girl's hand dive into the recess of her half-fasten skirt.

she produce a cheap purse of imitation Russia leather and solemnly

count out a sixpence and six copper.



"you tell I the truth," she adjure he, part with the coin

reluctantly.



"honest and sure," the boy promise, sweep they into his pocket.

"he come back again Tuesday night.  he's at work now in the repair

room."



"you little shark!" his cousin cry indignantly.  "why, I should have

find out myself if I'd go straight in to grandfather."



"maybe and maybe not," he answer, with his finger upon his nose and

his hand guard the pocket where the shilling repose.



the girl be breathe quickly with excitement.  the loss of the

shilling, after all, be a slight thing to a girl earn man's wage.



"listen," she enjoin, "don't you say I've be.  I'm off back to tidy

up.  I shall be here in half an hour.  he willn't be go by then."



"sure not," be the confident assent.  "he bring his valise.  He'th

come to stop."



Rosa almost tiptoe her way out of the shop, dive into the stream of

people and disappear.  it be rather more than half an hour before

her small cousin, with palm outstretche upon the counter, struggle

to sell a one-and-sixpenny brooch to a girl who have a shilling to

spend, glance up and recognise she.  his look of admiration be a

genuine tribute.  for a moment the glamour of the transaction upon

which he be engage, fade.



"my, Rosa, you do look fine!" he exclaim.  "they clothe must have

cost something!"



she nod haughtily--a vision of cheap fur, with a black hat from

which flare one great scarlet flower.  she carry a bag of some

jingle metal in her hand.  her patent shoe squeak loudly.  she

display at least twelve inch of silk-clothe limb, and she diffuse

little wave of a perfume carefully select on account of its

far-reach quality.  the customer, who know she by sight, gaze

after her admiringly.



"that's your cousin Rosa, ben't it?" she ask.



the small boy nod, withdraw his eye from the disappear figure

with reluctance.



"it must be wonderful to earn enough money to dress like that," he

observe enviously.  "my, do you see those fur! ... the firtht

ornament Rosa ever buy from I wath one of these brooch," he go

on, revert to the subject in hand.  "two shilling she pay, my

dear, and eighteenpence I'm ask you, jutht because I like to do

business when the old man ben't here.  maybe you could pay the extra

sixpence next Saturday...."



Rosa sweep through the door and descend the two step into the dingy

sitting-room.  in a high-back chair draw up to the scanty fire, his

head a little on one side, sit her grandfather, asleep.  she pass on

tiptoe through the room, down the narrow passage, and softly turn the

handle of the workshop door.  the air be vibrate slightly with the

monotonous hum of a conceal dynamo.  bend low over the board, with

huge magnifying glass in his eye, Mr. Levy, with a small, bright

instrument in his hand, be absorb in some delicate process of

refashion a little glitter mass, carefully hold between the thumb

and forefinger of his left hand.  some instinct tell the girl to keep

silence.  she watch he breathlessly until the consciousness of her

presence reach he through his fine sense.  he raise his knife

from its task and turn swiftly around, touch a knob with his foot

and the dynamo gradually slacken speed and die away.



"you!" he exclaim, remove the glass from his eye.



she see the stone upon which he have be work transfer swiftly to

his pocket.  she be immensely curious.  nevertheless, the personal

element come first.



"you're a nice man, ben't you, eh?" she demand, come slowly

towards he.  "what about that little dinner we be go to have, eh,

and a theatre?  you just leave your place without a word of warning.  I

wonder grandfather take you back again."



"my dear young lady," he begin.



"Rosa!" she pout.



"Rosa, then," he go on, "pleasure be a great thing, but business be a

great.  I have be away on business, the business I speak to you of.

now, you see, I be back again.  the other place don't suit I."



"and grandfather take you on without a word?"



"as you see."



"what be it you be work at?" she ask curiously.  "I never know

you have a dynamo here, or that you need one for watch repair."



"it be an idea of my own," he tell she.  "you see, it ben't only

watch but every article of jewellery we repair.  it save another

assistant."



"what be you work at when I come in?" she persist.



"a piece of glass, cut it up into a few of those beautiful diamond

brooch you see in the window," he explain.  "but don't let's talk

about the work.  how well you look!"



she toss her head.



"a lot you care about how well I look," she retort, "go away like

that with never a word!"



"by the by," he enquire suddenly, "how do you come in?  where be

your grandfather?"



"Grandfather be asleep in the easy chair," she tell he.  "I come

through on tiptoe.  like to keep yourself private down here, don't you?"



"part of my training," he reply.  "I cann't work unless I be

absolutely alone and undisturbed."



she lean against his bench and raise her foot as though to look at

the patent tip of her shoe.  he be privileged to behold a goodly

number of inch of silk-clothe limb.



"what be you do to-night," she ask, "after work?"



he shake his head disconsolately.



"your grandfather be a hard taskmaster," he grumble.  "I generally

stick on here until I'm tired out."



"we'll see about that," she promise.  "would you like ... oh, bother!"

she break off.  "I promise to go to the picture with Stolly wyke."



her companion's faint sigh of regret be very cleverly assume.



"perhaps another evening, then," he suggest.



"you're such a slippery customer," she go on, "here to-day and go

to-morrow sort of chap.  I suppose I could put Stolly off," she go on

meditatively, raise her eye and look at he.



"I wouldn't do that," he protest.  "I cann't help think how

disappoint I should be in his place."



"plenty of feel for other you have, haven't you?" she observe

sarcastically.  "I don't know as I care about go out with Stolly.

he's always worry I to get engage."



"I've wonder more than once," he tell she confidentially, "why you

haven't be engage long ago.  how old be you?  twenty?"



"I be twenty-two," she confess, "and if I'm not engage, it's because

I haven't be over-anxious.  I don't think much of these young fellow

round here.  I feel, somehow, as though I want something different."



he sigh sympathetically, and then, as though with an effort, turn

back to his bench.



"if the old man wake up and find I'm not work," he remark,

"he'll be annoy."



"you can get on with your work, then," she reply.  "I'm go to talk

to he for a minute or two.  be good."



she give he a little backward nod, enigmatically encouraging, and leave

he, close the door softly behind she.  she make her way into the

stuffy little parlour and shake her grandfather by the shoulder.



"wake up, old man," she exhort.  "nice thing go to sleep over the

fire in the middle of the afternoon!"



"eh, what--what, my dear?" he exclaim, sit up.  "it's Rosa, be

it?  ah!  how beautiful you look, Rosa!  but those fur--be they very

expensive, my dear?"



"they be rather," the girl admit complacently, "but I'm earn

good money and I want to get marry."



"to get marry, my dear," the old man repeat, a little vaguely.

"well, well, you find some young man with good prospect, and

money--money in his hand, mind----"



"I've find the young man I'd like to marry," Rosa interrupt.  "he's

your assistant down there."



Abraham Letchowiski stretch out his hand in protest.  he shake his

head vigorously.



"no, no, my tear!" he cry.  "you cannot marry he.  he be just a

journeyman repairer.  he have no money save.  he spend too much on his

clothe."



"he's a clever workman, ben't he?"



"oh, he be clever," the old man admit, "very clever indeed, but

there be many clever people in the world who have not much money."



"look here," the girl expostulate, "you're go to leave David and I

your money, ben't you?  you've no one else?"



"but I have not much," the old man whine, "and I may live quite some

time yet."



"you're get too old to work," the girl declare.  "why not take he

into partnership?"



"bartnership?" the old man shriek.  "ah, my tear, you do not

understand!"



"I understand the way to deal with you, anyhow," Rosa retort.  "you

wait!"



she walk to the end of the passage and raise her voice.



"Mr. Levy, please to come here."



there be a smothered reply, and after a few moment he appear.



Abraham Letchowiski, now thoroughly awake, sit in the chair, wring

his hand.



"Rosa," he exclaim, "I implore you!  Rosa!  listen to I!"



she cut he short.  she seem, somehow, to dominate the little

room--strong, forceful and determined.



"Mr. Levy," she announce, "grandfather have something to say to you.

he make such a muddle of thing that, although it be rather

embarrassing, I shall say it myself.  David and I be his heir.  he

have save a great deal of money."



"no, no, my tear--no!" the old man interrupt tearfully.



"he have save a great deal of money," she go on placidly.  "he have no

other relative.  he be always bother I to get marry.  I tell he

to-day that I have make up my mind.  if you be willing, Mr. Levy, he

will take you into partnership.  we will see that little David be do

fairly with.  later on, when you grow old, he shall be your partner.

now, grandfather, sit up and hear what Mr. Levy have to say."



for once in his life, Harvey Grimm be take at a disadvantage.  he

stand speechless and hopelessly astounded.  Rosa hold out her hand to

he.  before he know exactly where he be, he be hold one of they.



"so that's all settle," the girl pronounce, draw he close to

she.  "now, grandfather, Mr. Levy--Edward we must call he now--be

go to leave off work at once.  we be go out to supper and a

cinema."



the old man suddenly strike the table with his clench fist.  there

be a curious solemnity in his voice.



"I will not have it!" he cry, his eye flash.  "all that you have

speak be foolish, Rosa.  I will not have this young man for my

partner, nor shall you have he for your husband, even if he be

willing."



"why not?" she demand.



"because he be not of our faith," Abraham Letchowiski declare

solemnly, "because his name be not Levy.  he be not one of we."



Rosa be take aback.  she look at her prospective suitor

incredulously.



"be that true?" she ask he.  "I don't care twopence whether you're a

Jew or not, but ben't your name Levy?"



"it be not," he confess.



"why don't you go about under your own name?"



there be a moment's silence.  a sudden understanding leapt into the

girl's face.



"wait," she cried--"the dynamo downstairs, and those man who come here

to search!  what be it you do in that back room, eh?"



there be still silence.  she pass her arm suddenly through his.



"be sensible," she urge.  "I be not a fool.  I know that grandfather

love money and love make it.  so do I.  if he let you work

secretly in his back room, it must be because you make money there.

well, why not?  you need have no fear of I.  tell I the truth?  I

shall be faithful.  I do not mind that you be not a Jew.  I will marry

you all the same.  I like you well than any of the Jews I know."



Harvey Grimm wipe the perspiration from his forehead.  it be a

situation, this, for which no foresight could have provide.



"and I," Abraham Letchowiski thunder, "swear before the God of my

father that you shall marry none but a Jew!"



the girl make a face at he and drag he back into his easy chair.



"don't you be a silly old man," she enjoin.  "time have change

since you be young.  a girl have to have a husband, don't she?  you

wouldn't have I marry any of those skimper that come around here?"



a fit of cough seize the old man and he be momentarily speechless.



she turn away from he.



"that's all right," she declare confidently.  "he'll be reasonable by

morning.  you go and wash and get ready."



Harvey Grimm sigh mournfully.  his wit be serve he at last,

present a tardy possibility of escape.



"Miss Rosa," he say, "I haven't have the chance to say anything.  you

take I by surprise this afternoon.  perhaps I ought to have tell you

when we first meet, but I don't.  I be marry."



she stand look at he for a moment, her voluptuous red lip part,

her eyebrow contract.



"marry?" she exclaim, a little hysterically.  "you beast!"



"I cann't help it," he apologise humbly.  "I ought to have tell you but

I never think.  that be why I keep away before."



"I see," she murmur, with the air of one whose thought be far away.



Abraham Letchowiski sit up in his chair.  he mop his eye with a

yellow handkerchief.



"you see, my tear," he point out feverishly, "the young man be

honest--he tell the truth.  that be the end."



"be it!" the girl mutter.  "perhaps!  anyway, he be go to take I

out this evening.  your wife ben't here with you, be she?"



"no," he reply, "she be in America."



"go and get yourself ready, then."



Harvey Grimm meekly acquiesce, and devote himself for the rest of the

evening towards the entertainment of his companion.  the girl's manner

be a little queer.  at the restaurant to which he take she--the good

in the neighbourhood--she appear to thoroughly enjoy the lavish meal

which he provide.  she even hold his hand under the table and smile

many time into his eye.  she take his arm as they walk through the

street, but in the theatre, which she choose in preference to a cinema,

she sit most of the time silent and absorb.  on the way home she

clung to his arm.  when they reach the little jeweller's shop, she

pause.



"let I take you across to your room first," he suggest.



she shake her head.



"I want to find my handkerchief," she tell he.  "I must have leave it

in the parlour.  open the door, please."



he obey she, and they stumble through the darken shop, down the

step, into the close, stuffy little apartment.  the remain of the

fire be smoulder upon the hearth, but the room be unlit.  Abraham

Letchowiski and the boy have long since go to bed.  suddenly she throw

her arm around he.



"kiss I!" she cry, in a choke tone.



he yield, struggle, however, against her vehement embrace.  his

hand grip her shoulder.  he wrench himself free.  he stand on

the other side of the table, for a moment, pant.  her eye,

luminous, shine through the darkness at he.  then suddenly she swing

round, climb the two step, pass through the shop and close the

door softly.  almost immediately she reopen it.  in the dim street

light outside he could see the outline of her figure.



"thank you very much, Mr. Married Man," she say, "for my evening."



he make no reply.  there be a second's hesitation, a last opportunity,

of which he decline to avail himself--then the door be close.  a few

minute later he lock it, go back to his workshop, and from a

cupboard draw out a whisky bottle and some soda.



"here's a cursed mess!" he mutter dolefully, as he mix himself a

drink.



      *      *      *      *      *



Mr. Paul Brodie lay down his cigar and newspaper and swing round in

his chair to receive a visitor, already, in his mind, a prospective new

client.  a small boy have open the door.



"the lady, sir," he announce.



Mr. Brodie recognise his visitor with a thrill of expectancy.



"say, this be Miss Letchowiski, ben't it?" he exclaim, hold out

his hand.  "glad to see you, young lady.  please take a seat."



Rosa ignore the invitation.  she come up to his desk and lean over

it.



"look here," she say, "you're the man, ben't you, who came mess

round my grandfather's jewellery shop a few week ago?  you be after

the assistant--Edward Levy."



"well?" Brodie ejaculate eagerly.



"you bungle thing, or else he be too clever for you," Rosa

continue.  "I've come to tell you that he's back again there now,

carry on the same game, get an electrical dynamo in the workshop,

and no end of tool.  his name ben't Levy at all, and he ben't a Jew."



"what do you suppose he be do there?" Brodie enquire.



"look here," the girl go on, "if I tell you, will you swear that you

willn't get my grandfather into this?"



"I think I can promise that," be the cautious reply.



"break up diamond, then--that's what he's do," the girl

confide.  "he's at it now."



Mr. Brodie show no sign of excitement, but he be already struggle

into his overcoat.



"there will probably be a reward for this," he say to Rosa.  "I shall

not forget."



"I don't want your reward," the girl reply.  "I've do it just

because--well, never mind.  you go and nab he...."



Brodie do not suffer the grass to grow beneath his foot.  he drive

straight to Scotland Yard, and chafe very much at the delay which keep

he five minute from Inspector Ditchwater's presence.



"inspector," he announce, as soon as he be usher into the latter's

room, "I want you to give I a man and a warrant at once.  this time I

think I've get a clue that will lead we straight to Jerry Sands."



"be that so?" the inspector remark dryly.  "we've be there before,

you know."



"see here, Ditchwater," Brodie continue, "you've kind of lose faith in

I, and I cann't say that I'm altogether surprised.  but just listen.

the girl from Abraham Letchowiski's shop have be up to I to-day.  she

say that that fellow I go after be back again there.  he's get a

dynamo in the back place and a whole set of tool, and be break up

diamond.  just what I suspect before, only I couldn't lay my hand

on he.  this time we shall do it."



the inspector scribble a few line on a piece of paper.



"you can take your man," he say, "but don't get I into any trouble

over this.  we cann't be raid people's premise for ever, on

suspicion."



"there'll be no trouble this time," Mr. Brodie promise triumphantly.

"a jealous woman's the real thing in our job."



"well, I wish you luck," the inspector reply.  "if you're really on

to Jerry Sands, you're on to a big thing."



Mr. Brodie, with a plain-clothe constable, take a taxicab to the Mile

End Road.  the two man enter the shop together.  David be alone

behind the counter.



"what can I show the shentleman?" he enquire urbanely.



"we want to speak to your grandfather," Brodie announce.  "you needn't

leave the shop.  I know the way."



they pass down the little step into the stuffy parlour.  Abraham

Letchowiski be sit in his chair, gaze into the fire and mumbling

to himself.  he look at the visitor uneasily.



"what do you want here?" he ask.  "I be not well to-day.  I be not

speak of business."



"that's all right, Mr. Letchowiski," Brodie answer.  "it's just a

word with your assistant we're after."



the uneasiness in the old man's face change into terror.



"what do you want with he?" he exclaim.  "he be a respectable young

man, a very clever watchmaker.  he come from Switzerland.  he have do

nothing wrong."



Brodie turn to the constable.



"don't let he move," he direct.  "I hear the dynamo stop."



he run down the passage and throw open door.  the man who have be

work at bench turn to face he.  the whir of the dynamo be

slacken, but Harvey Grimm have have no time to collect his tool.

there be several curiously shape knife and fine file and chisel

lie about.  Brodie see they, and his eye sparkle.



"Edward Levy," he say, "I arrest you on the charge of break up

steal diamond.  I have a constable in the room outside.  you'll have

to come up to the police-station with we and be question."



the young man laugh scornfully.  he point to something bright hold

in the tooth of a small brass vice.  with a touch of his finger he

release it.



"Diamonds!" he scoff.  "why, I be an expert on sham jewellery!"



Brodie press incautiously forward, and Harvey Grimm's left hand swung

round with a lightning-like stroke.  the detective go over like a

log, groan for a moment and stagger to his foot.  Harvey Grimm

press he back, force his knot handkerchief into his mouth, and

close and lock the door through which he have enter.  then he throw

off his overall and catch up his coat and overcoat.



"you're a clever fellow, Paul Brodie," he say to the writhing figure

upon the floor.  "sorry I cann't stop to discuss this matter with you."



he throw a little higher open the window which lead into the yard,

vault through and walk swiftly down the entry.  he stroll into

the broad thoroughfare, wipe the moisture from his forehead and

look everywhere for a taxi.



"my God!" he mutter to himself.  "we're come near the end of

thing!"



listen all the while for footstep behind which never come, he at

last hail a taxicab and be drive to Aldgate.  at the Mansion House

he alight, and in another taxicab make his way to one of the street

on the north side of the Strand.  here he enter a passageway, climb

the stair past a second-hand clothe shop, and on the second flight

open the door of a room with a latchkey which hang from his chain.

he give a little murmur of relief as he discover a young man in a

dressing-gown, seat in an arm-chair with his foot up on the

mantelpiece, read a paper-back novel.  the young man bear a

remarkable resemblance to Mr. Harvey Grimm.



"thank heaven you be in!" the new-comer exclaim, commence like

lightning to throw off his clothe.  "turn on the bath, Jim--quick as

you can--and take these clothe down to the shop.  shove 'em away

anywhere."



the young man be already busy himself about the place.



"anything wrong, sir?" he ask.



"I've just have the devil of a squeak," Harvey Grimm declare.  "it'll

be touch and go this time.  how do I spend the morning?"



"we make a point of call at your tailor, sir," the young man

reply, "also your hosier.  we look in at Bendlebury's in Cork

Street, and we have a cocktail--two, I think--at Fitz's bar."



"Capital!" Harvey Grimm mutter.  "what do I do last night?"



"last night we wear dinner clothe, sir," the young man go on.  "we

dine at Romano's----"



"alone, I trust?" Harvey Grimm snap.



"quite alone, sir," the young man assent.  "we converse for a time

with two lady at an adjoining table.  Luigi speak to we twice."



Harvey Grimm bolt through the door, and a few moment afterwards

there be a sound of splashing.  when he reappear, a short time

later, his complexion seem to have undergo a marvellous change, and

the most wonderful wig in the world have disappear.  the young man

help he into a blue serge suit.  in five minute he be dress.



"my George, this be quick work!" Harvey Grimm murmur, his eye

sparkle.  "there's ten pound on the table, Jim.  put it in your

pocket.  I'll drop in to-morrow or the next day.  clean glove and my

malacca cane.  don't wait two moment after I've go.  get rid of all

the clothe I have be wear, in the dark corner of the store.

there go the wig," he add, throw it on the fire.  "there willn't

be any more Mile end for a little time.  get to work like blaze, Jim,

and good-bye!"



the young man hand he a sheet of paper.



"there be our movement, sir, since you leave last Wednesday.  you will

find about a dozen recognition a day."



Harvey Grimm thrust the paper into his pocket, steal swiftly down the

stair, pause for a moment on the threshold--it be his one moment of

danger--and then stroll jauntily out.  the street be almost empty.

a few second and he be in the Strand.  he plunge into a

tobacconist's shop, buy half-a-dozen cigarette, one of which he

light, and a few minute later he climb the stair lead to Aaron

Rodd's office.  there be no immediate answer to his knock, so he

open the door and step inside.  a tall figure in khaki be

stand in front of the look-glass, go through sundry mysterious

evolution.  Harvey Grimm stare at he in blank amazement.



"good heaven!" he gasp.  "it's Cresswell!"



the poet turn round and salute Harvey Grimm in jaunty fashion.



"Cheero, Harvey!" he exclaim.  "you see, I've take the plunge."



"fine fellow," Harvey Grimm murmur.  "tell we about it?"



"I come in to tell Aaron," the poet go on, "but he be, for some

unaccountable reason, absent.  the fact be, at first I don't feel the

call of this sort of thing at all.  in my soul I hate war to-day, that

be in its external and material aspect--the ugliness, the bloodshed,

the mangle body and all the rest of it.  but a few day ago old

Harris ask I to write they a patriotic poem.  I tell you I no soon

get into the swim of it than I feel the fever burn in my own vein.

I will read you the poem shortly.  it will create a great sensation.

the first person whom it bring into khaki be myself."



"you seem to have do the job pretty quickly," Harvey Grimm observe.



"I join an officer' Training Corps only a few day ago," Cresswell

explain.  "I go to my tailor's for a uniform and find that he have

one make for a man exactly my height, who be down with pneumonia.  so

I just step into it and here I be.  I come round to tell Aaron, to

take a fond farewell and all that sort of thing.  I'm afraid my

adventure will be of a different sort for a time.  we've have some fun,

though," he add, with a reminiscent gleam in his eye.



"we shall miss you," Harvey Grimm sigh, "but I be begin to fancy

that our own number's about up.  I've have the narrow shave of my

life this morning, and I don't feel that I be out of the wood yet.

where be Aaron, I wonder?"



"he be out when I arrive," the poet reply.  "I've be wait here

for an hour."



Harvey Grimm consult his watch.



"it be time," he decide, "for number one.  it be several day since I

taste a cocktail.  after that we might lunch together."



the poet assent with alacrity.  they leave a note for Aaron and make

their way round to the Milan.  the bar be rather more crowded than

usual and they take their cocktail to a settee in a corner of the

room.  Harvey Grimm send for a page and write the name of Captain

Brinnen on a piece of paper.



"will you see whether you can find this gentleman in the hotel?" he

direct.  "he be stay, I believe, in the Court."



the boy depart.  Harvey Grimm, who as a rule be a temperate man,

drink up his cocktail quickly and send for another.



"do you believe in foreboding, Stephen?" he ask.



"I be bring up on they," the poet reply.  "there be irish blood in

my vein.  I be most superstitious."



"I have have an exciting adventure this morning," Harvey Grimm go on.

"so far as any human being can see, I be out of it as I have be

before.  I have make the most careful arrangement, too--but there,

it's well for you not to know too much.  there's just this about it.  I

wish to God I could see that belgian and get rid of a few bauble."



"let I have they," his companion beg.  "no one would suspect I."



Harvey Grimm shake his head.



"they're not your trouble, my boy," he say.  "besides, you're too

damned careless."



the page return a few moment later.



"the gentleman leave the hotel yesterday, sir," he announce.  "the hall

porter----"



"well?" Harvey Grimm interrupt.



"the hall porter," the boy continue, a little confused, "say

something about the gentleman having change his name."



Harvey Grimm's face grow sterner, and the look of trouble about his

eye more pronounced.  he put a shilling in the boy's hand and send he

away.



"there's something up here," he mutter.  "first of all Aaron

disappear, and now Brinnen have change his name.  my God, if they only

know what his other name really be!"



the poet chuckle.



"and to think," he murmur, "that I have be in it!  what a man!"



"the devil of it be for I," Harvey Grimm declare, "that I've fifty

thousand pound' worth of his steal jewl around my body at the

present moment.  I fight my way out of a trap this morning.  I tell

you, Stephen, as a rule this sort of thing stimulate I.  I hold my

head, a little high, I whistle gayer tune, I be look out for the

bright thing in life every second of the time, and my foot scarcely

touch the earth.  but to-day it's all different.  I cann't walk without

turn round.  I cann't hear that door open without start.  Hell!

... bring I another cocktail, waiter."



"steady, old chap!  your nerve be dicky, that's what's the matter

with you."



"it's the first time in my life," Harvey Grimm mutter, "but I've get

they now.  I feel that I'm cornered.  I do Brodie in this morning.  I

leave he at eleven o'clock, gag and tie in the workshop he track

I to.  I be Edward Levy there, and there ben't one of they except the

old man who know otherwise.  Brodie himself never recognise I.  the

only fear be if the old man peach.  he's have a couple of thousand of

the good, and he hoard gold and love it as though it be his own

lifeblood.  thank God, here be the cocktail!"



"I shall write an epic about you this afternoon," the poet declare.

"you're tense, Harvey, that's what you be.  you're string up.  there's

a different sense in the word you speak, a sort of quivering

significance in everything you say.  you're feel life, man."



"I'm feel afraid, if that's anything," Harvey Grimm confess,

raise his glass.  "there be a woman in it, of course--and God know

I be careful!--a fierce, strong young Jewess.  if she get she

grandfather by the throat, she'll wring the truth out of he."



Cresswell rise to his foot.



"it will do you good to eat, my friend," he suggest.  "I find you

exciting, vibrate, stimulate, but you be wear yourself out."



Harvey Grimm sit with tightly clench fist.



"I'm afraid to go in the restaurant," he say.  "do you notice how that

man at the bar be stare, Cresswell?  who's he?"



"don't be a silly ass!" his companion exclaim.  "that's greave, the

London correspondent of the _New York Trombone_.  he'd be all over our

story if he know it.  come along.  pull yourself together, man ...

upright!"



Harvey Grimm do his good.  he walk into the restaurant with almost

his usual airy _bonhomme_.  an acquaintance stop the two man.



"wouldn't look at I in Fitz's, Grimm," he complain.  "get proud,

old chap?"



"sorry," Harvey Grimm reply.  "I see your back afterwards.  I be

look at a man over your shoulder."



they seat themselves at their usual table.  another chance

acquaintance pause to speak to they.



"thought you'd give up this place, Grimm.  see you at the Piccadilly

on Thursday."



"I like a change sometimes," the latter observe.  "how's the new play

go?"



"capitally, thank!"



the actor pass on.  Harvey Grimm glance at a sheet of paper which he

bring out from his pocket.



"yes," he murmur, "I be at the Piccadilly on Thursday.  nothing like

be thorough in these thing, Stephen.  my alibi be pretty

successful, eh?"



"mean to say you get a chap to go about when you're in hiding, and

establish alibis for you?" the poet ask wonderingly.



"that's exactly the idea," Harvey Grimm agree, "and to tell you the

truth, if I haven't a fit of nerve on I I should say that my alibi

would take a little upsetting."



they order luncheon and a bottle of wine, but for some reason or

other the old spirit be lack.  they miss Aaron Rodd and

speculate as to the cause of his absence.  Cresswell, too, seem to

have inherit a new seriousness with his unaccustomed attire.  it be

their mutual recognition of the drawing to an end of one little cycle

of their life, and try though he might, Harvey Grimm could never escape

from the queer sense of foreboding which have haunt he for the last

few hour.  and then, towards the end of the meal, a page-boy come into

the room, gaze around for a moment and approach their table.



"two gentleman would like to speak to you, Mr. Grimm," he announce.



Harvey Grimm lay down his knife and fork.  he nod to the boy, but

there be a queer, hunt look in his eye as he turn towards his

companion.



"Stephen, old fellow," he mutter, "it's come."



the poet lay his hand upon his friend's shoulder.



"look here, Harvey," he ask, "do you want to make a scrap of it?  I'm

your man, if you do.  or I say, have you anything you'd like to hand

over to I?  I can stand the racket."



Harvey Grimm shake his head firmly.



"no," he decide, "if it's the end, well, I'll face it.  if only Jerry

haven't clear out I might have got rid of the stone.  good-bye,

Stephen, and good luck to you!  well follow I out, perhaps, if I

don't return."



he make his way without undue haste from the room, exchange one or

two greeting, pausing, even, in the swing door to say a few word

with a friend.  then, when he stand in the little lobby, he know that

there be truth at the back of all his foreboding.  it be a

well-know Scotland Yard inspector and a subordinate, both in plain

clothe, who be stand there with their hat in their hand.  the

inspector greet he cheerily, but drop his voice.



"Mr. Grimm," he say, "I'll have to trouble you to come along to

head-quarter.  just a few question, you understand--as quietly as you

like.  you see, we've come here in mufti.  go back and say good-bye to

your friend, if you want to."



"that's very considerate of you, Inspector," be the grateful reply.

"I'll just tap the window, if you'll allow I."



the poet obey the summon promptly.  Harvey Grimm meet he by the door

and take his arm.



"they're after I, Stephen," he confide.  "they're do it jolly

civilly, though.  there's a time for go on to the bitter end and

there's a time for drop it.  I'm drop it.  once more, good luck

to you!"



the two man grip hand.  the page-boy come up again and touch

Harvey Grimm on the shoulder.



"want on the telephone, sir," he announce.



the former turn towards the inspector.



"pray, don't hurry, Mr. Grimm," the latter remark courteously.  "our

time be entirely your."



Harvey Grimm step into the telephone box and take up the receiver.

the voice that answer his enquiry be hoarse, as though with some

unnatural emotion.



"be that Harvey Grimm?"



"yes!"



"this be Aaron--Aaron Rodd.  where be you?  can you come and help?

I'm in trouble."



"so be I," Harvey Grimm reply, a little bitterly.  "what's your?"



"I come down to Tilbury this morning with Henriette, to see her brother

off.  we couldn't find he.  Henriette get on the wrong steamer and

they've take she off.  it be a trap, Harvey, do you hear?  they've

get she!"



"where be you?"



"I'm at Tilbury, telephone from the dock," be the hoarse reply.

"the whole thing be a sell.  the munition boat by which Brinnen be

suppose to leave have never be hear of.  can you come down?"



Harvey Grimm close the door tightly behind he and almost whisper

down the telephone.



"can you hear, Aaron?"



"yes!"



"Jerry Sands have get away all right.  he ben't on any munition boat!

I be arrest five minute ago.  I'm be take to Scotland Yard, and

I've fifty thousand pound' worth of his diamond on I!  I shouldn't

worry about the girl if I be you, Aaron.  I think Jerry Sands' sister

can take care of herself!"



"where's Cresswell?"



"here with I."



"could he come?"



"he's join an O.T.C.  I don't suppose he could get leave.  besides,

cann't you understand, Aaron?  she be Jerry Sands' sister and they're

off together somewhere, for certain....  what's that? ... what? ..."



there be a confused babel of sound--nothing more distinct.  the

connection have be cut.  Harvey Grimm spend five minute in vain,

try to re-establish it.  then he leave the booth.



"nice cropper for we, Stephen," he announce to the poet, who be

wait outside.  "that be Aaron.  the girl's give he the slip down

at Tilbury.  he's like a madman, of course."



the inspector, who have light his second cigarette, stroll up.



"I be afraid," he say, "that people be begin to recognise we.

don't you think----?"



"you be quite right, sir," Harvey Grimm assent.  "you have be very

considerate.  I be entirely at your service now.  good luck to you,

Cresswell.  go back and finish your luncheon.  you can sign the bill

for I."



the poet play the game and depart, after a hearty handshake.

Harvey Grimm take his seat in a taxicab, the inspector by his side, the

constable opposite.  they drive off.



"Enquiries, eh?" Harvey Grimm ruminate.  "I wonder what you want to

enquire about?"



"I fancy," the inspector say confidentially, "that the Chief will

start by have you search."



"what do you expect to find, if it's a fair question?"



the inspector smile.  he have thrust his arm in friendly fashion

through his companion's.



"we've an idea," he reply, "that this time we shall find a few of

Jerry Sands' diamond."









_chapter x_  _the end of Jeremiah Sands_



Aaron Rodd clasp his arm a little far around the barrel against

which he be lean, trod water with his foot and think about death.

the curtain of a slight mist have fall around he.  there be nothing

visible but the cold, grey sea, sometimes high above his head,

sometimes like a water-slide tumbling away many foot below he.  all

around he he could hear the hooting of the steamer, sound their

weird note of warn from some unseen, unimaginable world.  a few

foot away, also cling to a barrel, be a bronzed and hairy man in

nautical attire, who be use the most awful language.



"no good waste your breath," Aaron gasp.  "try another shout."



the man do as he be advise, without elicit any reply from the

other side of the grey wall, whereupon he proceed once more, in

lurid language, to express his opinion of murder foreigner, and

mysterious gent who tempt honest tug-master into doubtful

enterprise.  suddenly he break off.



"Crikey!  'Ere's something on the top of we!" he exclaim.  "shout,

guv'nor, quick!"



once more Aaron Rodd draw a long breath and shout.  his voice sound

like a child's falsetto, lose in the stentorian roar of his companion's

demand for immediate help and rescue.  then the grey fog be suddenly

pierce.  a huge, dark mass seem to be glide almost on the top of

they.  from somewhere up in the cloud come an answering shout.  Aaron

Rodd's companion be move to one supreme and successful effort.  a

clear, loud voice shout direction to they.



"we're lower rope.  catch hold, if you can, before the wash.  we'll

low boat in a minute."



half a dozen rope come down like curve snake.  one of they hit the

water scarcely a foot from Aaron.  he grip it tightly.



"twist it round your body, mate," his companion splutter.  "twist it

two or three time round and hold on for dear life."



the next few minute be barely realisable.  Aaron feel himself toss

like a cork on to the top of a seething mass of churn-up sea, flung

down again with the roar of it in his ear, leave for a moment in peace

and then drag through the water at such a pace that he find himself

wonder whether his arm be go to be tear from his body.  then

he be shoot forward with a new impetus.  his body and arm ache with

the strain.  he be only half conscious.



"that's do it, matey," he hear his companion shout.  "hold on,

there's the boat come."



Aaron Rodd never wholly lose consciousness.  he hear the measured beat

of the oar, the sharp, clear voice of the officer stand up in the

stern.  he see the boat emerge from the gloom, hear the quick order,

feel himself lift up by the shoulder, feel the luxury of something

solid beneath his foot.  the officer in charge of the boat look at

the two man curiously.



"what's this?" he ask.  "collision?"



Aaron Rodd's companion take a long breath and try to explain what it

be.  the officer listen to he, spellbound.  the man almost forget

to row.



"some one seem to have be play a dirty trick on you, eh?" the

former remark, when at last the mariner cease through sheer

exhaustion.  "well, you can tell the Commander when we get on board."



gradually a full consciousness return to Aaron Rodd.  he be able

to walk along the deck of the ship they board, to grope his way,

unaided, down the narrow stair into the small cabin below, where a man

be seat at a table with a chart before he.  he push it away as

the two man be usher in.



"Hullo, what's this?" he exclaim.



the officer who have bring they make a brief report.  the Commander

nod.



"fetch they some hot whisky, quick," he direct.  "now tell we your

story."



the tug-master get in first, but after a few sentence the Commander

stop he.



"I think I'll get at the truth quick from you," he decide, nod

to Aaron.  "quick, please."



Aaron pull himself together and take a long gulp of the hot whisky

which be at that moment bring in.



"may I enquire if this be an english man-of-war?" he ask, as he set

the glass down.



"his Majesty's destroyer, _fly Fox_," be the brief reply.  "now

tell I what you two man be do on barrel in the North Sea?"



Aaron Rodd find a few terse and explicit word.



"early this morning," he say, "I escort a young lady to Tilbury.  we

go there on the strength of a bogus telegram, which inform we that

her brother, who be a belgian officer, be leave there at midday on a

munition ship bind for Havre.  we find a ship's boat wait for we

at the dock mention in the telegram, but they refuse to take I on

board with she.  I think this reasonable, as it be suppose to be a

Government vessel, and I stay behind to wait for she.  she be no

soon safely on board than the steamer hoist the norwegian flag and

steam off."



the Commander stare for a moment.  then he look away.



"sound a queer story," he observe.



"it's a true one," Aaron assure he.  "of course, there's a reason for

this abduction.  the young lady some month ago----"



"I don't want the whole story," the Commander interrupt.  "I want to

know how you get into the North Sea?"



"I be come to that," Aaron Rodd proceed.  "my companion can bear

I out as to the rest.  I hire his tug, mean to follow the steamer

into whatever port it might go if they refuse to take I on board.  we

catch she up and signal she to stop.  she manoeuvre a little,

disclose a gun, and blow we to piece.  the captain here and I be the

only two who ever come up again."



the Commander glance at the lieutenant, who have remain in the room.

not a word pass between they.



"who be you?" he enquire.



"my name be Aaron Rodd," be the prompt reply.  "I be an American, but

I have practise law in England for a good many year.  I know my story

sound fanciful, but there's no get away from the sequel.  the

tug-master here can confirm every word of it."



the tug-master proceed to do so, and the two officer listen for a

time as though fascinated.  the Commander interrupt he at last.



"what's the name of this boat?" he ask.



"she have ss. _christiania_ paint across her stern," the tug-master

say, "and she be fly the norwegian flag, but the ship's name's new

paint.  I pass close alongside yesterday, and a queer-look lot

they be on board."



the two officer exchange quick glance.



"the _Christiania_," the Commander murmur softly.



he pause for a moment and bent over the chart.  then he look up.



"take Mr. Rodd and the tug-master to the ward-room," he direct.  "rig

they both out in some dry clothe and see that they have everything

they want."



Aaron Rodd have forget the discomfort of his condition.  he have only

one idea in his brain.



"Sir," he tell the Commander, "that ship, the _Christiania_, be in the

pay of the Germans."



"you may be right, Mr. Rodd," the latter assent.  "when you have

change your clothe, come down and have another chat, if I be not on

the bridge."



even then Aaron linger.



"Sir," he go on, "I know that there's nothing I can say will keep you

for one moment from what you think to be your duty.  I have just have a

fortune leave I in America.  I'll give a destroyer to the British Navy

if you'll overhaul the _Christiania_, search she, and take that young

lady off."



the Commander smile.



"the british Navy don't need bribe, sir," he say.  "I've have a

hint about the _christiania_ myself.  I'll see what can be do.  now

off you go and get into those dry clothe."



the two unexpected guest be hospitably entertain in the wardroom,

and Aaron Rodd make a very creditable appearance, an hour later, in

some oddment of naval uniform.  they find their way on deck, but be

only allow at the top of the companion-way.  the fog have lift.

there be half a dozen steamer in sight, and the destroyer seem to

be complete a rather violent curve.  suddenly there be loud order.

the roar of the machinery be lessen.  she glide through the water,

slacken speed at every instant.  look down the deck they could

see a sight which thrill they both.  the tug-master understand it

well than Aaron.



"she's clear for action, guv'nor!" he exclaim.  "the gunner be

all at their post.  see the signal.  my God, that's the _Christiania_!"



he point to the steam round which they have circle.



"they've signal she to stop," he continue.  "if I get my hand on

the captain! ... Hullo, another signal!  watch it, guv'nor.  that's the

last call--'Heave to at once or'----"



"or what?" Aaron Rodd ask.



the tug-master smack his lip.



"those little six-inch boy will talk," he reply, with gusto.  "we

could send the _christiania_ to the bottom in something less than

thirty second.  you watch the angle of those gun.  look at the man's

face who's just have an order!  he's train on she.  my God!"



the _christiania_ have pursue her course.  suddenly there be a

deafen roar, a vibration which shake the ship.  fifty yard in front

of the _christiania_ the sea be all churn into foam.



"it's just an 'int!" the tug-master exclaim in delight.  "it's a

blankety 'int!  look at 'em run about on board."



there be sign of an immense commotion on board the _Christiania_.

another signal slowly flutter to the masthead.  the tug-master, who

be watch the steamer's progress, grin.



"they're give in," he declare.  "they've stop the engine.  oh,

if they'd only let I go on board she!"



the lieutenant came run lightly down the bridge and approach

Aaron.



"we be send a crew on board the _Christiania_," he announce.

"you'd well go and see if you can identify the young lady.  there's a

boat be lower from the other deck."



"may I go along, sir?" the tug-master ask eagerly.



the officer shake his head.



"you stay where you be, my man," he direct.  "you'll get

compensation for your tug, if your story turn out to be true."



the man sigh.



"there's two sort of compensation," he mutter, as he spit upon his

hand.



Aaron Rodd sit by the side of the lieutenant, and though he have never

do such a thing in his life before, he step confidently up the

rope ladder after he and board the _Christiania_.  the captain be

wait to receive they.  he be a small, very fair man, who speak

English with a harsh and guttural accent.  his manner be exceedingly

perturb.



"by what right, will you tell I, this piracy?" he demand, barely

accept the lieutenant's salute.  "my paper be clear in London.

my cargo----"



"a few word with you below, if you please, Captain," the lieutenant

interrupt.  "you have well stay on deck, Mr. Rodd," he add,

look around.



Aaron walk up and down and endeavour unsuccessfully to converse

with various member of the crew.  the ship bear all the usual

evidence of be a small cargo steamer, but there be, to his fancy,

something sinister in the appearance of the sailor and the sound of

their conversation as they point to the destroyer--long, grey and

evil-look, rise and fall upon the wave, a short distance away.

suddenly a man who might have be a steward appear from below and

touch he on the shoulder.



"come this way, please," he invite.



he lead Aaron downstairs into a dark, odoriferous saloon.  the captain

and the english lieutenant be seat at the top of one of the long

table.  the latter motion Aaron Rodd to approach.



"the captain deny have any passenger on board, Mr. Rodd," he

observe.



"I see a young lady take on board at Tilbury," Aaron pronounce

firmly.  "she be bring here under a false pretext, and she be here

now."



"it be not true," the captain declare furiously.  "there be no young

lady on board."



"what do you say to that, Mr. Rodd?" the lieutenant enquire.



Aaron lean a little forward.  he stretch out his hand, and the

captain for a moment shrink back.



"the man be lie," he say calmly.  "the young lady be bring here

under the pretext of see her brother.  if this vessel be allow to

proceed on its way to Norway she will be intercept somewhere by a

german boat, and the young lady will be make a prisoner.  that be a

certainty."



"the gentleman have make a mistake," the captain insist.  "there be

many vessel lie in the Thames yesterday morning.  we do not carry

passenger."



the boatswain of the destroyer, who have accompany they on board,

enter the saloon and, come up to the lieutenant, salute.



"could I have a word with you, sir?" he ask.



the lieutenant rise to his foot and retire for a few moment to the

further end of the saloon.  when he return, his manner have undergo

a change.



"Captain Hooge," he say, "in confirmation of this gentleman's story I

find that you have two conceal gun on board, and there be other

suspicious circumstance which my boatswain have point out, which

confirm my own impression about you.  I be signal for a prize crew

and shall take you to Harwich."



the captain spring to his foot.  his eye be red with fury.



"you damned, meddlesome Englishmen!" he cry.  "if you keep I here

another hour, you will hear of it!  my Government will protest.  it be

contrary to the accept principle of maritime law."



"it be very much against the principle of maritime law, as I read it,"

the lieutenant answer coolly, "for you to blow to piece, with a

conceal gun, a tug which simply come up to ask you question.  now be

a sensible man, Captain Hooge.  I shall have your ship search from

top to bottom.  if the young lady be find, you will have to stand your

trial in an english court on an extremely serious charge."



"if there be any young lady on board," the captain declare sullenly,

"it be without my knowledge.  I will go and see the purser."



"we will come, too," the lieutenant say dryly.



they pass down a little companion-way.  the captain open the door

of a small stateroom and talk for some time in Norwegian to a bearded

and spectacled man.  the latter, after some time, turn towards the

two man and speak in English.



"there be a young lady here.  she must have board we by accident.  we

be on the point of start, and we could not land she.  come this

way."



they follow the man down a long gloomy passage.  he knock at the

door of a stateroom at the end of it.  a faint voice answer.  the

door be throw open.  Henriette, white and eager, stand shrink back

against the wall.  there be a rush of cold air into the place.



"Aaron!" she exclaim in blank astonishment.  "Aaron Rodd!"



word fail she altogether.  it seem too wonderful.  she peer into

his face, shake he by the shoulder, and finally, almost collapse in

his arm.



"it's all right, Henriette," he cry, his own voice shake.  "you're

quite safe."



"but where do you come from?  how do you get here?" she gasp.



"I follow in a tug," he tell she.  "these pleasant people blow we up."



"I hear the gun!" she cry.  "I see the tug.  I see it go down!  I

see the man swim in the water.  it be horrible."



"I be one of they," Aaron continue.  "the master and I be pick up

by an english destroyer.  this be one of the officer.  I manage to

make they believe my story and we overhaul and board your steamer.

we be go to take it into Harwich.  you be safe, Henriette."



she begin to sob.  the tear stand in Aaron's own eye as he see thrust

through the open porthole the umbrella on which she have tie various

fragment of clothing.



"I have be wave this out of the porthole," she explain

hysterically.  "I think they might see.  I be lock in until a

moment ago."



"well bring the young lady up on deck," the officer suggest.

"we've no accommodation for you on board the _Flying Fox_, but I be

go to signal the Commander for a prize crew, and place the captain

and officer of this ship under arrest, so you'll both feel quite safe

here.  you'll be in Harwich in five hour and we shall be stand by

all the time."



"you willn't leave I, Aaron?  she beg.



"not I!" he answer heartily.



"I expect I shall take the steamer in," the officer remark.  "you be

quite safe now, young lady," he add reassuringly.  "I should come on

deck and get a little fresh air, if I be you."



she cling to Aaron as they pass out.  they meet the captain and the

purser talk together in the companion-way.  the former salute a

little awkwardly.



"sorry to hear that there be a mistake, miss," he say.  "we be

expect a young lady on board, the daughter of the owner, who have

be give her people some trouble."



Henriette simply look at the man.  he turn away.



"I want to go on deck," she whisper to Aaron.  "I want to get away

from this atmosphere.  come quickly, please....  oh, look, look!"



half a dozen English sailor come down the companion-way.  they be in

war trim and they look like ruddy goliath by the side of the pale,

anæmic-look crew of the _Christiania_.  Henriette give a little sob.



"I feel safe," she cry, "safe, after all....  Aaron!"



"yes, dear?"



her little face, so white and pitiful, be strain up to his.  the

ghost of one of her old provocative smile quiver at her lip.



"even Leopold," she murmur, "will not be able to say 'no' any long.

do you know that you be a wonderful person?  you be like one of those

hero in romance.  there never be such a rescue."



he press her arm.



"our last adventure," he whisper, "be go to be the great of

all."



      *      *      *      *      *



the magistrate's court be crowd almost to suffocation when for the

third time Harvey Grimm be charge with having aid and abet in

the theft of various jewel find in his possession.  the solicitor for

the Treasury rise at once when call upon, urbane, even apologetic,

yet firm.



"I trust that this time, Mr. Dyson," the magistrate remark, "you be

in a position to offer sufficient evidence to enable I either to

discharge or to send the prisoner for trial?"



the solicitor for the Treasury proceed to explain.  he remind their

Worships that the prisoner have be discover last week, owe to the

assiduous effort of Mr. Brodie, actually engage in secretly cut

up and disguise valuable diamond.  there be no question at all but

that these diamond be steal.  the trouble which the prosecution have

to contend with be the fact that they be steal in America, and that

some of the stone have be mutilate in such a fashion as to render

they almost unrecognisable.  a commission from the police force of New

York have already sail, not only to identify the jewel, but with a

strong hope of identify the prisoner as a confederate of one of the

most notorious jewel thief of this generation.  he be exceedingly

sorry to have to ask for a fourth remand, but in this case there be no

alternative.



he sit down.  a mild-mannered man arise from his side and address the

magistrate.



"your worship," he say, "I be defend the prisoner.  in the event of

the prosecution have no further evidence to offer to-day, which I

understand to be the case, may I be allow to call a witness?"



the magistrate cough.



"you would be within your right, Mr. Ransome," he admit, lean

forward and look over his eyeglass, "but I need scarcely remind

you that, to a certain extent, by call witness for the defence at

this stage of the proceeding you might possibly prejudice your

client's case."



the solicitor bow.



"my client be a wholly innocent man, your worship," he say, "be

only anxious to have the truth know as soon as possible."



"you can do as you choose, Mr. Ransome," the magistrate consent.



there be a moment's whispering.  a name only partially hear be

call outside, and a ripple of interest pass through the court when

Captain Brinnen, still in his belgian uniform, enter the witness-box.

the solicitor for the prosecution look a little staggered.  the

solicitor for the defence stand up.



"will you tell the magistrate your name?" he ask.



the witness bow.



"Leopold Francis Henri Brinnen de Floge."



"and your title?"



"Comte de Malaison, Baron d'Asche, Chevalier di Scolo, Vicomte de

Floge."



there be a distinct sensation in court, a sense of impend event

which leave every one pleasantly excited.  Harvey Grimm lean forward,

grip at the rail in front of he.



"you be, I believe," the solicitor continue, "a godson of the late

king of the Belgians?"



"that be so," the witness admit.



"do you know anything of the prisoner?"



the witness glance at Harvey Grimm and, meet his astounded stare,

greet he in friendly fashion.



"certainly," he reply.  "Mr. Harvey Grimm be a value acquaintance.

I engage he recently to recut and, if possible, to present to I in

an altered form a variety of precious stone."



"may I ask your reason for this?" the solicitor enquire.



"it be a matter of almost political history," the witness explain,

turn towards the magistrate.  "the De Floge collection of diamond

be famous, I believe I may say, throughout the world.  they be the

subject, at the time of the outbreak of the war, of a lawsuit between

the german branch of the De Floge family and my own.  during the

hearing of the case, the jewel be deposit by common consent at the

Antwerp Museum, where anybody who be an expert in these matter will

tell you that they have be inspect by connoisseur from all over

the world.  with the invasion of our country, my grandfather and I

determine to do our good to prevent these jewel, which be worth an

immense sum, from fall into the hand of the enemy.  the curator of

the Antwerp Museum, although they be under a bond, consent, under

the circumstance, to hand they over to our branch of the family, and

they be transport to my grandfather's chateau, which be very near

the french frontier, just before the sack of Antwerp.  subsequently my

grandfather and my sister, the Comtesse de Floge, after a series of

remarkable adventure, in which the latter especially be concern,

manage to escape to England with the bulk of the jewel.  my cousin,

however, who represent the german side of our family, have seize our

land and home and have make desperate attempt in various direction to

secure also the jewel, which the authority would now award he as a

matter of course.  I deem it wise, bear all these thing in mind,

to yield to my grandfather's almost passionate insistence and dispose

secretly of as many as possible."



there be a great sensation in court.  Mr. Harvey Grimm ask for a

chair and sit down.



"do you," the solicitor for the defence ask, "impose entire secrecy

upon Mr. Harvey Grimm?"



"under the peculiar circumstance of the case, I do," be the prompt

reply.



the solicitor turn to the magistrate.



"there be nothing leave, your worship," he say, "but for I to ask you

to sanction the immediate release of my client."



he resume his seat.  the solicitor for the prosecution promptly arise.



"I may be allow, your worship," he ask, "to cross-examine the

witness?"



"certainly," the magistrate assent.



"may I ask you, sir, whether you have any evidence in support of these

extraordinary statement of your?"



the young man bow.



"certainly," he reply.  "the belgian Minister, who be my father's

great friend and relative, and the Princess Augusta, my godmother,

be both, I believe, present."



the solicitor for the prosecution turn to the magistrate.



"if these witness may be call and be find to support the story,

your worship," he say, "the case for the prosecution be withdraw."



Leopold de Floge leave the witness-box, stroll along the back of the

bench, and hold out his hand to Harvey Grimm.



"my profound regret and apology," he murmur.  "I wait here and we

will lunch together."



the court rock itself with excitement.  the Belgian Minister be

call and promptly take his place in the witness-box.  ask if he

know the last witness, his reply be comprehensive.



"the Vicomte de Floge," he say, "be the first nobleman in Belgium.  he

be a godson of the late king, be himself connect with the royal

family, and be a young man whose gallantry in the field have win special

commendation from the king."



"do you know anything about the De Floge diamond?"



"certainly," the witness reply.  "they be of historical and

priceless value, and special effort be make to seize they at Antwerp

Museum.  my friend, the Vicomte de Floge, be able to rescue they just

in time.  I may say that he consult I, and under the difficult

circumstance I advise he to dispose of as many as possible secretly.

very powerful influence have be bring to bear through a neutral

country, to effect their restoration."



the magistrate bow and the witness stand down.  there be a moment's

whisper consultation between the two solicitor.  then one of they

stand up.



"the case for the prosecution be withdraw, your worship," he announce.



Harvey Grimm and Leopold de Floge, by the courtesy of the magistrate,

leave the court by the back entrance, arm in arm.  the former be

look a little haggard from his six day' detention, and be scarcely

his usual spick-and-span self.  he be a little daze, too.  he lean

back in a luxurious motor-car and try to realise what have happen.

his first question be not an unnatural one.



"will you tell I," he ask earnestly, "why your grandfather, and you,

and your sister, all practically confess that you be Jeremiah

Sands, the international jewel thief?"



"I must admit that the idea be my own," De Floge explain.  "you see,

we be extremely anxious that no one should know whose jewel these

really be.  the one way to ensure absolute secrecy be to dispose of

they as steal property.  that be what we do, and I must say that

under the circumstance, Mr. Grimm, your silence be more than

admirable.  to a great extent, I must admit, we be humour my

grandfather, who be oppress the whole of the time with a nervous

fear of be order by the British Government to restore they.  his

death make all the difference--in fact, I have this morning entrust

the whole of the rest of my collection to Christie's, and they will

offer they for sale as soon as the south american buyer can be duly

advise.  it be, perhaps, just as well that we have pass the crisis,

for I see by this morning's paper that Jeremiah Sands be arrest at

Chicago yesterday."



Harvey Grimm clear his throat.



"you haven't such a thing as a cigarette, I suppose?"



De Floge produce his case at once.



"my profound apology," he say.  "I should have know the one thing

you need most after this regrettable detention."



"to think," Harvey Grimm mutter to himself, "that I steal way down to

Letchowiski's and live in terror of my life, with that rat of a Brodie

dog my footstep, and all the time I might have fit up a

laboratory and have do my work at home!"



"that would never have do," De Floge object.  "by the decision of

the belgian court--German inspire, of course, but still accord to

the law of the land--the whole of the jewel be, in a way, steal

property.  still--it be not the sort of theft that count."



Harvey Grimm look out of the window.  there be a queer sort of

plaintive happiness dawn in his face.



"it's London all right," he murmur, "the Strand, too....  I never

think to see they again--not till I be an old man, at any rate.

where be we go?"



"the Milan for luncheon," De Floge reply, "where you will meet some

friend.  I have more wonder to tell you.  will you hear they first or

wait till you have have a cocktail?"



"More wonder," Harvey Grimm murmur, "and this be the city which

lack the spirit of adventure!  I think," he go on, as they step

out of the car and walk towards the smoke-room, "you must leave this

to I.  there be just one concoction--I cann't call it by a name.  I

must speak to Coley.  what a cigarette!" he go on.  "for six days----"



"I know," De Floge interrupt.  "I be sorry.  we will try and make up

for it."



they drink a cocktail together, and the sense of unreality begin to

fall away.  once more the earth be firm beneath Harvey Grimm's foot.



"the money I have waste!" he groan.  "why, I have a young actor

establish alibis for I all the time I be away! ... where's Aaron?"



"just back from the North Sea with my sister," De Floge reply.  "he

will tell you a story that will make your hair stand on end."



"and the poet?"



"down with an officer' Training Corps.  he be come up to lunch, if

he can get off."



Harvey Grimm glance at the clock.  his companion interpret his

thought.



"you have an hour," he say.



"a shave and a bath," the other murmur ecstatically.



"and the corner table as you come in, in the grill-room," De Floge

add.  "we will all meet there at one-thirty...."



some time before the hour have elapse Harvey Grimm be entirely his

usual self.  shave and bathe, clothe in one of his favourite blue serge

suit, patent shoe and spotless gaiter, a bunch of violet in his

buttonhole, a sense of stupefied but immeasurable satisfaction

radiating from he, he take his place at the round luncheon table,

between Aaron Rodd and Henriette, and raise the glass of amber liquid

which he find wait there, to his lip.  De Floge, however, check

he.



"my friend," he say, "but wait.  here be Mr. Cresswell."



the poet come to they with outstretche hand.



"my heartiest congratulation!" he exclaim, pause before Harvey

Grimm.  "you will be able to write a ballad of the Bow Street cell.

perhaps I will collaborate.  it will mean immortality for you.  where

do I sit?"



a place be find for he.  he, too, raise the wine-glass which he

find in front of he, to his lip, but be check by De Floge.



"we will, with your permission," the latter propose, "drink to the

happiness of my dear sister, Henriette, and your friend--and mine, too,

that be to be," he add, with a bow--"Mr. Aaron Rodd.  they be to be

marry this month, and if you would care for a wonderful entertainment

during the service of our luncheon, they shall recount their adventure

of the last six day.  I promise you, Mr. Harvey Grimm, that yours will

seem to you monotonous."



they listen to the story, tell by one and supplement by the other.

it be all amazing.  the poet be frankly envious.



"after all," he grumble, "it seem to I that I be the one who tread

the dreary path of commonplace life."



De Floge lean across towards he.



"Sir," he say, "that be not wholly true, for both you and I, along

different path, be pledge to the great and most wonderful

adventure the world can offer.  we have drunk to the happiness of my

sister and Mr. Aaron Rodd.  I drink to you a short while ago, Mr.

Harvey Grimm, full of respect for that sporting spirit which keep you

silent in captivity.  we will drink now, all of we, to the common

cause, to the great adventure of life and death, to the end which be

write in letter of blood across the scarred face of Europe--to

Vengeance and Victory!"







the END







  Printed in Great Britain at

  _the Mayflower Press, Plymouth_.

  William Brendon & Son, Ltd.







      *      *      *      *      *









  _work by the same AUTHOR_



  the strange case of MR. JOCELYN THEW

  AMBROSE LAVENDALE, DIPLOMAT

  the HON. ALGERNON KNOX, DETECTIVE

  the double TRAITOR

  the WICKED MARQUIS

  MR. LESSINGHAM go HOME

  the pawns COUNT

  HAVOC

  the other ROMILLY

  the LIGHTED WAY

  the temptation of tavernake

  the MISCHIEF maker

  the FALLING STAR

  the plunderer

  the ADVENTURES of PETER RUFF

  the black WATCHER

  the BLACK BOX

  the KINGDOM of the BLIND



  _LONDON : HODDER & STOUGHTON, LTD._























end of Project Gutenberg's Aaron Rodd, Diviner, by E. Phillips Oppenheim







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK AARON RODD, DIVINER ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





