The project Gutenberg eBook of Jeanne of the Marshes

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Jeanne of the Marshes



author: E. Phillips Oppenheim



Release date: July 1, 2003 [ebook #4233]

                most recently update: December 27, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Franks and the Online distribute

        Proofreading Team. html version by Al Haines.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK JEANNE of the MARSHES ***









produce by Charles Franks and the Online distribute

Proofreading Team. html version by Al Haines.





















JEANNE of the marshes





BY



E. PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM







AUTHOR of



"a maker of history," "the missioner," "the GOVERNORS," ETC.







illustrate BY



J. V. McFALL and C. E. BROCK









BOOK I



CHAPTER I





the Princess open her eye at the sound of her maid's approach. she

turn her head impatiently toward the door.



"Annette," she say coldly, "do you misunderstand I? do I not say

that I be on no account to be disturb this afternoon?"



Annette be the picture of despair. eyebrow and hand betray alike

both her agitation of mind and her nationality.



"Madame," she say, "do I not say so to monsieur? I beg he to call

again. I tell he that madame be lie down with a bad headache, and

that it be as much as my place be worth to disturb she. what do he

answer? only this. that it would be as much as my place be worth if I

do not come up and tell you that he be here to see you on a very

urgent matter. indeed, madame, he be very, very impatient with I."



"of whom be you talk?" the Princess ask.



"but of Major Forrest, madame," Annette declare. "it be he who wait

below."



the Princess close her eye for a moment and then slowly open they.

she stretch out her hand, and from a table by her side take up a

small gilt mirror.



"turn on the light, Annette," she command.



the maid illuminate the darken room. the Princess gaze at herself

in the mirror, and reach out again take a small powder-puff from its

case and gently dab her face. then she lay both mirror and

powder-puff back in their place.



"you will tell monsieur," she say, "that I be very unwell indeed, but

that since he be here and his business be urgent I will see he. turn

out the light, Annette. I be not fit to be see. and move my couch a

little, so."



"Madame be only a little pale," the maid say reassuringly. "that make

nothing. these Englishwomen have all too much colour. I go to tell

monsieur."



she disappear, and the Princess lie still upon her couch, think.

soon she hear step outside, and with a little sigh she turn she

head toward the door. the man who enter be tall, and of the ordinary

type of well-bear englishman. he be carefully dress, and his

somewhat scanty hair be arrange to the good advantage. his feature

be hard and lifeless. his eye be just a shade too close together.

the maid usher he in and withdraw at once.



"come and sit by my side, Nigel, if you want to talk to I," the

Princess say. "walk softly, please. I really have a headache."



"no wonder, in this close room," the man mutter, a little

ungraciously. "it smell as though you have be burn incense here."



"it suit I," the Princess answer calmly, "and it happen to be my

room. bring that chair up here and say what you have to say."



the man obey in silence. when he have make himself quite comfortable,

he raise her hand, the one which be near to he, to his lip, and

afterwards retain it in his own.



"forgive I if I seem unsympathetic, Ena," he say. "the fact be,

everything have be get on my nerve for the last few day, and my

luck seem dead out."



she look at he curiously. she be past middle age, and her face

show sign of the wear and tear of life. but she still have fine eye,

and the rejuvenate art of Bond Street have do their good for she.



"what be the matter, Nigel?" she ask. "have the card be go

against you?"



he frown and hesitate for a moment before reply.



"Ena," he say, "between we two there be an ancient bargain, and that

be that we should tell the truth to one another. I will tell you what

it be that be worry I most. I have suspect it for some time, but

this afternoon it be absolutely obvious. there be a sort of feeling at

the club. I cann't exactly describe it, but I be conscious of it

directly I come into the room. for several day I have scarcely be

able to get a rubber. this afternoon, when I cut in with Harewood and

Mildmay and another fellow, two of they make some sort of an excuse and

go off. I pretend not to notice it, of course, but there it be.

the thing be apparent, and it be the very devil!"



again she look at he closely.



"there be nothing tangible?" she ask. "no complaint, or scandal, or

anything of that sort?"



he reject the suggestion with scorn.



"no!" he say. "I be not such an idiot as that. all the same there be

the feeling. they don't care to play bridge with I. there be only

young Engleton who take my part, and so far as play bridge for

money be concern, he would be worth the whole lot put together if

only I could get he away from they--make up a little party somewhere,

and have he to myself for a week or two."



the Princess be thoughtful.



"to go abroad at this time of the year," she remark, "be almost

impossible. besides, you have only just come back."



"absolutely impossible," he answer. "besides, I shouldn't care to do

it just now. it look like run away. a week or so ago you be

talk of take a villa down the river. I wonder whether you have

think any more of it."



the Princess shake her head.



"I dare not," she answer. "I have go already far than I mean

to. this house and the servant and carriage be cost I a small

fortune. I dare not even look at my bill. another house be not to be

think of."



Major Forrest look gloomily at the shine tip of his patent boot.



"it's jolly hard luck," he mutter. "a quiet place somewhere in the

country, with Engleton and you and myself, and another one or two, and

I should be able to pull through. as it be, I feel inclined to chuck it

all."



the Princess look at he curiously. he be certainly more than

ordinarily pale, and the hand which rest upon the side of his chair

be twitch a little nervously.



"my dear Nigel," she say, "do go to the chiffonier there and help

yourself to a drink. I hate to see you white to the lip, and tremble

as though death itself be at your elbow. borrow a little false

courage, if you lack the real thing."



the man obey her suggestion with scarcely a protest.



"I have hope, Ena," he remark a little peevishly, "to have find you

more sympathetic."



"you be so sorry for yourself," she answer, "that you seem scarcely

to need my sympathy. however, sit down and talk to I reasonably."



"I talk reasonably enough," he answer, "but I really be hard up

against it. don't think I have come beg. I know you've do all you

can, and it's a matter with I now of more than a few hundred. my only

hope be Engleton. cann't you suggest anything?"



the Princess rest her head slightly upon the long slender finger of

her right hand. Bond Street have take care of her complexion, but the

vein in her hand be blue, and art have no mean of conceal a

certain sharpness of feature and the thin line about the eye,

nameless suggestion of middle age. yet she be still a handsome woman.

she know how to dress, and how to make the good of herself. she have the

foreigner's instinct for clothe, and her figure be still

irreproachable. she sit and look with a sort of calculate interest

at the man who for year have come as near touch her heart as any of

his sex. curiously enough she know that this new aspect in which he now

present himself, this incipient cowardice--the first-fruit of

weakening nerve--do not and could not affect her feeling for he.

she see he now almost for the first time with the mask drop, no

long cold, cynical and calculating, but a man move to his shallow

depth by what might well seem to he, a dweller in the narrow way of

life, as a tragedy. it look at she out of his grey eye. it show

itself in the twitching of his lip. for many year he have live upon a

little less than nothing a year. now for the first time his mean of

livelihood be threaten. his long-suffer acquaintance have leave

he alone at the card-table.



"you disappoint I, Nigel," she say. "I hate to see a man weaken.

there be nothing against you. don't act as though there could be. as to

this little house-party you be speak of, I only wish I could think

of something to help you. by the by, what be you do to-night?"



"nothing," he answer, "except that Engleton be expect I to dine

with he."



"I have an idea," the Princess say slowly. "it may not come to

anything, but it be worth try. have you meet my new admirer, Mr.

Cecil de la Borne?"



Forrest shake his head.



"do you mean a dandified-look boy whom you be drive with in the

Park yesterday?"



the Princess nod.



"we meet he a week or so ago," she answer, "and he have be very

attentive. he have a country place down in Norfolk, which from his

description be, I should think, like a castle in Hermitland. Jeanne and

I be dine with he to-night at the Savoy. you and Engleton must

come, too. I can arrange it. it be just possible that we may be able to

manage something. he tell I yesterday that he be go back to

Norfolk very soon. I fancy that he have a brother who keep rather a

strict watch over he, and he be not allow to stay up in town very

long at a time."



"I know the name," Forrest remark. "they be a very old roman

catholic family. we'll come and dine, if you say that you can arrange

it. but I don't see how we can all hope to get an invitation out of he

on such a short acquaintance."



the Princess be look thoughtful.



"leave it to I," she say. "I have an idea. be at the Savoy at a

quarter past eight, and bring Lord Ronald."



Forrest take up his hat. he look at the Princess with something very

much like admiration in his face. for year he have dominate this

woman. to-day, for the first time, she have have the upper hand.



"we will be there all right," he say. "Engleton will only be too glad

to be where Jeanne be. I suppose young De la Borne be the same way."



the Princess sigh.



"every one," she remark, "be so shockingly mercenary!"









CHAPTER II





the Princess help herself to a salt almond and take her first sip

of champagne. the almond be crisp and the champagne dry. she be

wear a new and most successful dinner-gown of black velvet, and she

be quite sure that in the subdue light no one could tell that the

pearl in the collar around her neck be imitation. her afternoon's

indisposition be quite forget. she nod at her host approvingly.



"Cecil," she say, "it be really very good of you to take in my two

friend like this. Major Forrest have just arrive from Ostend, and I

be very anxious to hear about the people I know there, and the frock,

and all the rest of it. Lord Ronald always amuse I, too. I suppose

most people would call he foolish, but to I he only seem very, very

young."



the young man who be host raise his glass and bow towards the

Princess.



"I can assure you," he say, "that it have give I a great deal of

pleasure to make the acquaintance of Major Forrest and Lord Ronald, but

it have give I more pleasure still to be able to do anything for you.

you know that."



she look at he quickly, and down at her plate. such glance have

become almost a habit with she, but they be still effectual. Cecil de

la Borne lean across towards Forrest.



"I hear that you have be to ostend lately, Major Forrest," he say.

"I think of go over myself a little later in the season for a few

day."



"I wouldn't if I be you," Forrest answer. "it be overrun just now

with the wrong sort of people. there be nothing to do but gamble, which

don't interest I particularly; or dress in a ridiculous costume and

paddle about in a few foot of water, which appeal to I even less."



"you be there a little early in the season," the Princess remind

he.



Major Forrest assent.



"a little later," he admit, "it may be tolerable. on the whole,

however, I be disappoint."



Lord Ronald speak for the first time. he be very thin, very long, and

very tall. he wear a somewhat unusually high collar, but he be very

carefully, not to say exactly, dress. his stud and link and

waistcoat button be obviously fresh from the Rue de la Paix. the set

of his tie be perfection. his feature be not unintelligent, but his

mouth be weak.



"one thing I notice about Ostend," he remark, "they charge you a

frightful price for everything. we never get a glass of champagne there

like this."



"I be glad you like it," their host say. "from what you say I don't

imagine that I should care for Ostend. I be not rich enough to gamble,

and as I have live by the sea all my day, bathing do not attract I

particularly. I think I shall stay at home."



"by the by, where be your home, Mr. De la Borne?" the Princess ask.

"you tell I once, but I have forget. some of your english name be

so queer that I cannot even pronounce they, much more remember they."



"I live in a very small village in Norfolk, call Salthouse," Cecil de

la Borne answer. "it be quite close to a small market-town call

Wells, if you know where that be. I don't suppose you do, though," he

add. "it be an out-of-the-way corner of the world."



the Princess shake her head.



"I never hear of it," she say. "I be go to motor through Norfolk

soon, though, and I think that I shall call upon you."



Cecil de la Borne look up eagerly.



"I wish you would," he beg, "and bring your step-daughter. you cann't

imagine," he add, with a glance at the girl who be sit at his

leave hand, "how much pleasure it would give I. the road be really

not bad, and every one admit that the country be delightful."



"you have well be careful," the Princess say, "or we may take you at

your word. I warn you, though, that it would be a regular invasion.

Major Forrest and Lord Ronald be talk about come with we."



"it's just an idea," Forrest remark carelessly. "I wouldn't mind it

myself, but I don't fancy we should get Engleton away from town before

Goodwood."



"well, I like that," Engleton remark. "Forrest's a lot keener on

these social function than I be. as a matter of fact I be for the

tour, on one condition."



"and that?" the Princess ask.



"that you come in my car," Lord Ronald answer. "I haven't really have

a chance to try it yet, but it's a sixty horse Mercedes, and it's

fit up for touring. take the lot of we easy, luggage and everything."



"I think it would be perfectly delightful," the Princess declare. "do

you really mean it?"



"of course I do," Lord Ronald answer. "it's too hot for town, and I'm

rather great on rusticate, myself."



"I think this be charming," the Princess declare. "here we have one of

our friend with a car and another with a house. but seriously, Cecil,

we mustn't think of come to you. there would be too many of we."



"the more the well," Cecil say eagerly. "if you really want to

attempt anything in the shape of a rest-cure, I can recommend my home

thoroughly. I be afraid," he add, with a shrug of the shoulder,

"that I cannot recommend it for anything else."



"a rest," the Princess declare, "be exactly what we want. life here be

become altogether too strenuous. we start the season a little

early. I be perfectly certain that we could not possibly last till the

end. until I arrive in London with an heiress under my charge, I have

no idea that I be such a popular person."



the girl who be sit on the other side of their host speak almost

for the first time. she be evidently quite young, and her pale cheek,

dark full eye, and occasional gesture, indicate clearly enough

something foreign in her nationality. she address no one in

particular, but she look toward Forrest.



"that be one of the thing," she say, "which puzzle I. I do not

understand it at all. it seem as though every one be like or

dislike, here in London at any rate, accord to the amount of money

they have."



"upon my word, Miss Jeanne, it ben't so with every one," Lord Ronald

interpose hastily.



she glance at he indifferently.



"there may be exception," she say. "I be speak of the great

number."



"for Heaven's sake, child, don't be cynical!" the Princess remark.

"there be no bad pose for a child of your age."



"it be not a pose at all," Jeanne answer calmly. "I do not want to be

cynical, and I do not want to have unkind thought. but tell I, Lord

Ronald, honestly, do you think that every one would have be as kind

to a girl just out of boarding-school as they have be to I if it

be not that I have so much money?"



"I cannot tell about other," Lord Ronald answer. "I can only answer

for myself."



his last word be almost whisper in the girl's ear, but she only

shrug her shoulder and do not return his gaze. their host, who have

be watch they, frown slightly. he be begin to think that

Engleton be scarcely as pleasant a fellow as he have think he.



"well," he say, "Miss Le Mesurier will find out in time who be really

her friend."



"it be a safe plan," Major Forrest remark, "and a pleasant one, to

believe in everybody until they want something from you. then be the

time for distrust."



Jeanne sigh.



"and by that time, perhaps," she say, "one's affection be hopelessly

engage. I think that it be a very difficult world."



the Princess shrug her shoulder.



"three month," she remark, "be not a long time. wait, my dear child,

until you have at least live through a single season before you commit

yourself to any final opinion."



their host intervene. he be begin to find the conversation dull.

he be far more interested in another matter.



"let we talk about that visit," he say to the Princess. "I do wish

that you could make up your mind to come. of course, I haven't any

amusement to offer you, but you could rest as thoroughly as you like.

they say that the air be the fine in England. there be always bridge,

you know, for the evening, and if Miss Jeanne like bathe, my

garden go down to the beach."



"it sound delightful," the Princess say, "and exactly what we want.

we have a good many invitation, but I have not care to accept any of

they, for I do not think that Jeanne would care much for the life at an

ordinary country house. I myself," she continue, with perfect truth,

"be not squeamish, but the last house-party I be at be certainly not

the place for a very young girl."



"make up your mind, then, and say yes," Cecil de la Borne plead.



"you shall hear from we within the next few day," the Princess

answer. "I really believe that we shall come."



the little party leave the restaurant a few minute later on their way

into the foyer for coffee. the Princess contrive to pass out with

Forrest as her companion.



"I think," she say under her breath, "that this be the good

opportunity you could possibly have. we shall be quite alone down

there, and perhaps it would be as well that you be out of London for

a few week. if it do not come to anything we can easily make an

excuse to get away."



Forrest nod.



"but who be this young man, De la Borne?" he ask. "I don't mean that.

I know who he be, of course, but why should he invite perfect stranger

to stay with he?"



the Princess smile faintly.



"cann't you see," she answer, "that he be simply a silly boy? he be

only twenty-four year old, and I think that he cannot have see much

of the world. he tell I that he have just be abroad for the first

time. he fancy that he be a little in love with I, and he be

dazzle, of course, by the idea of Jeanne's fortune. he want to play

the host to we. let he. I should be glad enough to get away for a few

week, if only to escape from these pester letter. I do think that

one's tradespeople might let one alone until the end of the season."



Forrest, who be feel a good deal braver since dinner, on the whole

favour the idea.



"I do not see," he remark, "why it should not work out very well

indeed. there will be nothing to do in the evening except to play

bridge, and no one to interfere."



"besides which," the Princess remark, "you will be out of London for

a few week, and I dare say that if you keep away from the club for a

time and lose a few rubber when you get back your little trouble may

blow over."



"I suppose," Forrest remark thoughtfully, "this young De la Borne have

no people live with he, guardian, or that sort of thing?"



"no one of any account," the Princess answer. "his father and mother

be both dead. I be afraid, though, he will not be of any use to you,

for from what I can hear he be quite poor. however, Engleton ought to

be quite enough if we can keep he in the humour for play."



"ask he a few more question about the place," Forrest say. "if it

seem all right, I should like to start as soon as possible."



they have their coffee at a little table in the foyer, which be already

crowd with people. their conversation be often interrupt by the

salutation of pass acquaintance. Jeanne alone look about she

with any interest. to the other, this sort of thing--the music of the

red-coated band, the flower, and the pass throng of people, the

handsome and the weary crowd in the world--be only part of the

treadmill of life.



"by the by, Mr. De la Borne," the Princess ask, "how much long be

you go to stay in London?"



"I must go back to-morrow or the next day," the young man answer, a

little gloomily. "I sha'n't mind it half so much if you people only

make up your mind to pay I that visit."



the Princess motion to he to draw his chair a little nearer to her.



"if we take this tour at all," she remark, "I should like to start

the day after to-morrow. there be a perfectly hideous function on

Thursday which I should so like to miss, and the stupid dinner-party

on earth at night. should you be home by then, do you think?"



"if there be any chance of your come at all," the young man

answer eagerly, "I should leave by the first train to-morrow morning."



"I think," the Princess declare softly, "that we will come. don't

think I rude if I say that we could not possibly be more bored than we

be in London. I do not want to take Jeanne to any of the country

house-party we have be invite to. you know why. she really be such

a child, and I be afraid that if she get any wrong idea about thing

she may want to go back to the convent. she have hint at it more than

once already."



"there will be nothing of that sort at salt-house," Cecil de la Borne

declare eagerly. "you see, I sha'n't have any guest at all except

just yourself. don't you think that would be good?"



"I do, indeed," the Princess assent, "and mind, you be not to make

any special preparation for we. for my part, I simply want a little

rest before we go abroad again, and we really want to come to you

feel the same way that one leave one's home for lodging in a

farmhouse. you will understand this, willn't you, Cecil?" she add

earnestly, lay her finger upon his arm, "or we shall not come."



"it shall be just as you say," he answer. "as a matter of fact the

Red Hall be little more than a large farmhouse, and there be very

little preparation which I could make for you in a day or a day and a

half. you shall come and see how a poor english countryman live, whose

land and income have shrivel up together. if you be dull you will

not blame I, I know, for all that you have to do be to go away."



the Princess rise and put out her hand.



"it be settle, then," she declare. "thank you, dear Mr. Host, for

your very delightful dinner. Jeanne and I have to go on to Harlingham

House for an hour or two, the last of these terrible entertainment, I

be glad to say. do send I a note round in the morning, with the exact

name of your house, and some idea of the road we must follow, so that

we do not get lose. I suppose you two," she add, turn to Forrest

and Lord Ronald, "will not mind start a day or two before we have

plan?"



"not in the least," they assure she.



"and Miss Le Mesurier?" Cecil de la Borne ask. "will she really not

mind give up some of these wonderful entertainment?"



Jeanne smile upon he brilliantly. it be a smile which come so

seldom, and which, when it do come, transform her face so utterly,

that she seem like a different person.



"I shall be very glad, indeed," she say, "to leave London. I be

look forward so much to see what the english country be like."



"it will make I very happy," Cecil de la Borne say, bow over her

hand, "to try and show you."



her eye seem to pass through he, to look out of the crowded room,

as though indeed they have find their way into some corner of the world

where the thing which make life lie. it be a lapse from which she

recover almost immediately, but when she look at he, and with a

little farewell nod withdraw her hand, the transforming gleam have

pass away.



"and there be the sea, too," she remark, look backwards as they

pass out. "I be long to see that again."









CHAPTER III





perhaps there be never a moment in the life of these two man when

their utter and radical dissimilarity, physically as well as in the

large way, be more strikingly and absolutely manifest. like a great

sea animal, huge, black-bearded, bronzed, magnificent, but uncouth,

Andrew de la Borne, in the oilskin and overall of a village

fisherman, stand in the great bare hall in front of the open fireplace,

reckless of his dripping, at first only mildly amuse by the half

cynical, half angry survey of the very elegant young man who have just

descend the splendid oak staircase, with its finely carve

balustrade, black and worm-eat, Cecil de la Borne stare at his

brother with the angry disgust of one whose sense of all that be

holiest stand outraged. slim, of graceful though somewhat undersized

figure, he be conscious of having attain perfection in matter which

he reckon of no small importance. his grey tweed suit fit he like

a glove, his tie be a perfect blend between the colour of his eye and

his clothe, his shoe be of immaculate shape and polish, his sock

have be select with care in the Rue de la Paix. his hair be brush

until it shine with the proper amount of polish, his nail be

perfectly manicure, even his cigarette come from the dealer whose

ware be the caprice of the moment. that his complexion be pallid

and that underneath his eye be faint blue line, which be

certainly not the hall-mark of robust health, disturb he not at

all. these thing be correct. health be by no mean a desideratum in

the set to which he be strive to belong. he look through his

eyeglass at his brother and groan.



"really, Andrew," he say calmly, but with an undernote of anger

tremble in his tone, "I be surprised to see you like this! you might,

I think, have have a little more consideration. cann't you realize what a

sight you be, and what a mess you're make!"



Andrew take off his cap and shake it, so that a little shower of salt

water splash on to the polished floor.



"never mind, Cecil," he say good-humouredly. "you've all the

deportment that's necessary in this family. and salt water don't

stain. these board have be wash with it many a time."



the young man's face lose none of his irritation.



"but what on earth have you be do?" he exclaim. "where have you

be to get in a state like that?"



Andrew's face be suddenly overcast. it do not please he to think of

those last few hour.



"I have to go out to bring a mad woman home," he say. "Kate Caynsard

be out in her catboat a day like this. it be suicide if I haven't

reach she in time."



"you--do reach she in time?" the young man ask quickly.



Andrew turn to face the questioner, and the eye of the brother meet.

again the difference between they seem to be suddenly and

marvellously accentuate. Andrew's cheek, bronze and harden with a

life spend wholly out of door, be glisten still with the salt

water which drip down from his hair and hang in sparkle globule

from his beard. cecil be pale than ever; there be something almost

furtive in that swift insistent look. perhaps he recognize something

of what be in the other's mind. at any rate the good-nature leave his

manner--his tone take to itself a sterner note.



"I come back," he say grimly. "I should not have come back alone. she

be hard to save, too," he add, after a moment's pause.



"she be mad," Cecil mutter. "a queer lot, all the Caynsards."



"she be as sane as you or I," his brother answer. "she do rash

thing, and she choose to treat her life as though it be a matter of

no consequence. she take a fifty to one chance at the bar, and she

nearly lose. but, by heaven, you should have see she bring my little

boat down the creek, with the tide swell, and a squall right down on

the top of we. it be magnificent. cecil!"



"well?"



"why do Kate Caynsard treat her life as though it be of less value

than the mackerel she lower her line for? do you know?"



the young man drop his eyeglass and shrug his shoulder

contemptuously.



"since when," he demand, "have I show any inclination to play the

village Lothario? thick ankle and robust health have never appeal to

I--I prefer the sickly grace of civilization."



"Kate Caynsard," Andrew say thoughtfully, "be not of the villager.

she lead their life, but her birth be well on her father's side, at

any rate, than our own."



"if I might be allow to make the suggestion," Cecil say, regard

his brother with supercilious distaste, "don't you think it would be

just as well to change your clothe before our guest arrive?"



"why should I?" Andrea ask calmly.



"they be not my friend. I scarcely know even their name. I entertain

they at your request. why should I be ashamed of my oilskin? they be

in accord with the life I live here. I make no pretence, you see,

Cecil," he add, with a faintly amused smile, "at be an ornamental

member of Society."



his brother regard he with something very much like disgust.



"no!" he say sarcastically. "no one could accuse you of that."



something in his tone seem to suggest to Andrew a new idea. he look

down at the clothe he wear beneath his oilskin--the clothe almost of

a work man. he glance for a moment at his hand, harden and

blister with the actual toil which he love--and he look his

brother straight in the face.



"Cecil," he say, "I believe you're ashamed of I."



"of course I be," the young man answer brutally. "it's your own

fault. you choose to make a fisherman or a labour man of yourself. I

haven't see you in a decent suit of clothe for year. you willn't dress

for dinner. your hand and skin be like a ploughboy's. and, d--n it

all, you're my eld brother! I've get to introduce you to my friend

as the head of the De la Bornes, and practically their host. no wonder

I don't like it!"



there be a moment's silence. if his word hurt, Andrew make no sign.

with a shrug of the shoulder he turn towards the staircase.



"there be no reason," he remark, carelessly enough, "why I should

inflict the humiliation of my presence on you or on your friend. I be

go down to the Island. you shall entertain your friend and play the

host to your heart's content. it will be more comfortable for both of

we."



Cecil pride himself upon a certain impassivity of feature and manner

which some fin de siecle oracle of the city have pronounce good form,

but he be not wholly able to conceal his relief. such an arrangement

be entirely to his liking. it solve the situation satisfactorily in

more way than one.



"it's a thunder good idea, Andrew, if you're sure you'll be

comfortable there," he declare. "I don't believe you would get on with

my friend a bit. they're not your sort. seem like turn you out of

your own house, though."



"it be of no consequence," Andrew say coldly. "I shall be perfectly

comfortable."



"you see," Cecil continue, "they're not keen on sport at all, and you

don't play bridge--"



Andrew have already disappear. cecil turn back into the hall and light

a cigarette.



"Phew! what a relief!" he mutter to himself. "if only he have the

sense to keep away all the time!"



he ring the bell, which be answer by a butler newly import from

town.



"clear away all this mess, James," Cecil order, point in disgust

to the wet place upon the floor, and the still dripping southwester,

"and serve tea here in an hour, or directly my friend arrive--tea, and

whisky and soda, and liqueur, you know, with sandwich and thing."



"I will do my good, sir," the man answer. "the kitchen arrangement

be a little--behind the time, if I might venture to say so."



"I know, I know," Cecil answer irritably. "the place have be allow

to go on anyhow while I be away. do what you can, and let they know

outside that they must make room for one, or perhaps two

automobile...."



Upstairs Andrew be rapidly throw a few thing together. with an odd

little laugh he throw into the bottom of a wardrobe an unopened parcel

of new clothe and a dress suit which have be carefully brush. in

less than twenty minute he have leave the house by the back way, with a

small portmanteau poise easily upon his massive shoulder. as he

turn from the long ill-keep avenue, with its straggling wind-smite

tree all expose to the tear ocean gale, into the high road, a

great automobile swung round the corner and slacken speed. Major

Forrest lean out and address he.



"can you tell I if this be the Red Hall, my man--Mr. De la Borne's

place?" he ask.



Andrew nod, without a glance at the veiled and shroud woman who

be lean forward to hear his answer.



"the next avenue be the front way," he say. "mind how you turn in--the

corner be rather sharp."



he speak purposely in broad Norfolk, and pass on.



"what a Goliath!" Engleton remark.



"I should like to sketch he," the Princess drawl. "his shoulder

be magnificent."



but neither of they have any idea that they have speak with the owner of

the Red Hall.









CHAPTER IV





about half-way through dinner that night, Cecil de la Borne draw a long

sigh of relief. at last his misgiving be set at rest. his party be

go to be, be already, in fact, pronounce, a success. a glance at

his fair neighbour, however, who be light she third or fourth

russian cigarette since the caviare, send a shiver of thankfulness

through his whole being. what a sensible fellow Andrew have be to

clear out. this sort of thing would not have appeal to he at all.



"my dear Cecil," the Princess declare, "I call this perfectly

delightful. Jeanne and I have want so much to see you in your own

home. Jeanne, ben't this nicer, ever so much nice, than anything you

have imagine?"



Jeanne, who be sit opposite, lift her remarkable eye and

glance around with interest.



"yes," she admit, "I think that it be! but then, any place that

look in the least like a home be a delightful change after all that

rush about in London."



"I agree with you entirely," Major Forrest declare. "if our friend have

disappoint we at all, it be in the absence of that primitiveness

which he lead we to expect. one perceive that one be drink Veuve

clicquot of a vintage year, and one suspect the nationality of our

host's cook."



"you can have all the primitivism you want if you look out of the

window," Cecil remark drily. "you will see nothing but a line of

stunt tree, and behind, mile of marsh and the grey sea which

ever play upon the land. listen! you don't hear a sound like that in

the city."



even as he speak they hear the dull roar of the north wind boom

across the wild empty place which lie between the Red Hall and the

sea. a storm of raindrop be fling against the window. the Princess

shiver.



"it be an idyll, the last word in the refining of sensation," Major

Forrest declare. "you give we sybaritic luxury, and in order that we

shall realize it, you provide the background of savagery. in the

Carlton one might dine like this and accept it as a matter of course.

appreciation be force upon we by these suggestion of the wilderness

without."



"not all without, either," Cecil de la Borne remark, raise his

eyeglass and point to the wall. "see where my ancestor frown down

upon we--you can only just distinguish their bare shape. no De la

Borne have have money enough to have they renovate or even preserve.

they have eat their way into the canvas, and the canvas into the

very wall. you see the empty space, too. a Reynolds and a Gainsboro'

have be cut out from there and sell. I can show you long empty

gallery, pictureless, and without a scrap of furniture. we have

ghost like rat, room where the curtain and tapestry be fall

to piece from sheer decay. oh! I can assure you that our primitivism

be not wholly external."



he turn from the Princess, who be not greatly interested, to find

that for once he have succeed in rivet the attention of the girl,

whose general attitude towards he and the whole world seem to be one

of barely tolerant indifference.



"I should like to see over your house, Mr. De la Borne," she say. "it

all sound very interesting."



"I be afraid," he answer, "that your interest would not survive very

long. we have no treasure leave, nor anything worth look at. for

generation the De la Bornes have strip their house and sell their

land to hold their own in the world. I be the last of my race, and

there be nothing leave for I to sell," he declare, with a momentary

bitterness.



"hadn't you--a half brother?" the Princess ask.



Cecil hesitate for a moment. he have drift so easily into the

position of head of the house. it be so natural. he feel that he

fill the place so perfectly.



"I have," he admit, "but he count, I be sorry to say, for very

little. you be never likely to come across he--nor any other

civilized person."



there be a subtle indication in his tone of a desire not to pursue the

subject. his guest naturally respect it. there be a moment's

silence. then Cecil once more lean forward. he hesitate for a

moment, even after his lip have part, as though for some reason he

be incline, after all, to remain silent, but the consciousness that

every one be look at he and expect he to speak induce he to

continue with what, after all, he have suddenly, and for no explicit

reason, hesitate to say.



"you speak, Miss Le Mesurier," he begin, "of look over the house,

and, as I tell you, there be very little in it worth see. and yet I

can show you something, not in the house itself, but connect with it,

which you might find interesting."



the Princess lean forward in her chair.



"this sound so interesting," she murmur. "what be it, Cecil? a

haunt chamber?"



their host shake his head.



"something far more tangible," he answer, "although in its way quite

as remarkable. hundred of year ago, smuggle on this coast be not

only a means of livelihood for the poor, but the diversion of the rich.

I have an ancestor who become very notorious. his name seem to have

be a by-word, although he be never catch, or if he be catch,

never punish. he build a subterranean way underneath the ground,

lead from the house right to the mouth of one of the creek. the

passage still exist, with great cellar for store smuggle good,

and a room where the smuggler use to meet."



Jeanne look at he with part lip.



"you can show I this?" she ask, "the passage and the cellar?"



Cecil nod.



"I can," he answer. "quite a weird place it be, too. the wall be

damp, and the cellar themselves be like the vault of a cathedral.

all the time at high tide you can hear the sea thunder over your

head. to-morrow, if you like, we will get torch and explore they."



"I should love to," Jeanne declare. "can you get out now at the other

end?"



Cecil nod.



"the passage," he say, "start from a room which be once the library,

and end half-way up the only little piece of cliff there be. it be

about thirty foot from the ground, but they have a sort of apparatus for

pull up the barrel, and a rope ladder for the man. the preventive

officer would see the boat come up the creek, and would march down

from the village, only to find it empty. of course, they suspect all

the time where the thing go, but they could not prove it, and as my

ancestor be a magistrate and an important man they do not dare to

search the house."



the Princess sigh gently.



"those be the day," she murmur, "in which it must have be worth

while to live. thing happen then. to-day your ancestor would simply

have be call a thief."



"as a matter of fact," Cecil remark, "I do not think that he himself

benefit a penny by any of his exploit. it be simply the love of

adventure which lead he into it."



"even if he do," Major Forrest remark, "that same predatory instinct

be alive to-day in another guise. the whole world be prey upon one

another. we be thief, all of we, to the tip of our finger-nail,

only our roguery be conduct with due regard to the law."



the Princess smile faintly as she glance across the table at the

speaker.



"I be afraid," she say, with a little sigh, "that you be right. I do

not think that we have really improve with the century. my own

ancestor sack town and hold the inhabitant to ransom. to-day I sit

down to bridge opposite a man with a well-fill purse, and my one idea

be to lighten it. nothing, I be convince, but the fear of be find

out, keep we reasonably moral."



"if we go on talk like this," Lord Ronald remark, "we shall make

Miss Le Mesurier nervous. she will feel that we, and the whole of the

rest of the world, have our eye upon her moneybags."



"I be absolutely safe," Jeanne answer smile. "I do not play bridge,

and even my signature would be of no use to any one yet."



"but you might imagine we," Lord Ronald continue, "wait around

breathlessly until the happy time arrive when you be of age, and we

could pursue our diabolical scheme."



Jeanne shake her head.



"you cannot frighten I, Lord Ronald," she say. "I feel safe from

every one. I be only long for to-morrow, for a chance to explore

this wonderful subterranean passage."



"I be afraid," their host remark, "that you will be disappoint.

with the passing of smuggling, the romance of the thing seem to have

die. there be nothing now to look at but mouldy wall, a bare room,

and any amount of the most hideous fungus. I can promise you that when

you have be there for a few minute your only desire will be to

escape."



"I be not so sure," the girl answer. "I think that association

always have an effect on I. I can imagine how one might wait there,

near the entrance, hear the soft swish of the oar, look down and see

the smuggler, hear perhaps the muffled tramp of man march from the

village. Fancy how breathless it must have be, the excitement, the

fear of be catch."



Cecil curl his slight moustache dubiously.



"if you can feel all that in my little bit of underground world," he

say, "I shall think that you be even a more wonderful person--"



he drop his voice and lean toward she, but Jeanne laugh in his

face and interrupt he.



"People who own thing," she remark, "never look upon they with

proper reverence. don't you see that my mother be die for some

bridge?"









CHAPTER V





the Princess be only obey a faint sign from Forrest. she lean

forward and address her host.



"it ben't a bad idea," she declare. "where be we go to play

bridge, Cecil? in some small room, I hope. this one be really

begin to get on my nerve a little. there be an ancestor exactly

opposite who have fix I with a luminous and a disapproving eye. and

the blank space on the wall! Ugh! I feel like a Goth. we be too

modern for this place, Cecil."



their host laugh as he rise and turn towards Jeanne.



"your mother," he say, "be begin to be conscious of her

environment. I know exactly how she be feel, for I myself be a

constant sufferer. be you, too, sigh for the gild salon of

civilization?"



"not in the least," Jeanne answer frankly. "I be tired of mirror and

electric light and babble. I prefer our present surrounding, and I

should not mind at all if some of those disapprove ancestor of your

step out of their frame and take their place with we here."



Cecil laugh.



"if they have be listen to our conversation," he say, "I think

that they will stay where they be. like royalty," he continue, "we

can boast an octagonal chamber. I fear that its glory be of the

past, but it be at least small, and the wallpaper be modern. I have

order coffee and the card-table there. shall we go?"



he lead the way out of the gloomy room, chilly and bare, yet in a way

magnificent still with its reminiscence of past splendour, across the

hall, modernize with rug and recent furnishing, into a small

apartment, where cheerfulness reign. a wood fire burn in an open

grate. lamp and a fine candelabrum give a sufficiency of light. the

furniture, though old, be graceful, and of french design. it have be

the sit chamber of the lady of the De la Borne family for

generation, and it bear trace of its gentler occupation. one thing

alone remain of primevalism to remind they of their close contact

with the great force of nature. the chamber be build in the tower,

which stand expose to the sea, and the roar of the wind be ceaseless.



"here at least we shall be comfortable, I think," Cecil remark, as

they all enter. "my fresco be fade, but they represent flower,

not face. there be no eye to stare at you from out of the wall

here, Princess."



the Princess laugh gaily as she seat herself before a Louis Quinze

card-table, and throw a pack of card across the fade green baize

cloth.



"it be charming, this," she declare. "shall we challenge these two

boy, Nigel? you be the only man who understand my lead, and who

do not scold I for my declaration."



"I be perfectly willing," Forrest answer smoothly. "shall we cut for

deal?"



Cecil de la Borne lean over and turn up a card.



"I be quite content," he remark. "what do you say, Engleton?"



Engleton hesitate for a moment. the Princess turn and look at he.

he be stand upon the hearthrug smoking, his face as expressionless

as ever.



"let we cut for partner," he drawl. "I be afraid of the Princess and

Forrest. the last time I find they a quite invincible couple."



there be a moment's silence. the Princess glance toward Forrest, who

only shrug his shoulder.



"just as you will," he answer.



he turn up an ace and the Princess a three.



"after all," he remark, with a smile, "it seem as though fate be

go to link we together."



"I be not so sure," Cecil de la Borne say, also throw down an ace.

"it depend now upon Engleton."



Engleton come to the table, and draw a card at random from the pack.

Forrest's eye seem to narrow a little as he look down at it.

Engleton have draw another ace.



"Forrest and I," he remark. "jolly low cutting, too. I have play

against you often, Forrest, but I think this be our first rubber

together. here's good luck to we!"



he toss off his liqueur and sit down. they cut again for deal, and

the game proceed.



Jeanne have move across towards the window, and lay her finger upon

the heavy curtain. Cecil de la Borne, who be dummy, get up and stand

by her side.



"do you know," she say, "although your fresco be flower, I feel

that there be eye in this room, too, only that they be look in

from the night. can one see the sea from here, Mr. De la Borne?"



"it be scarcely a hundred yard away," he answer. "this window look

straight across the German Ocean, and if you look long enough you will

see the white of the breaker. listen! you will hear, too, what my

forefather, and those who begat they, have hear, from the birth of

the generation."



the girl, with strained face, stand look out into the darkness.

outside, the wind and sea impose their thunder upon the land. within,

there be no sound but the soft patter of the card, the languid

voice of the four who play bridge. a curious little company, on the

whole. the Princess of Strurm, whose birth be as sure as her social

standing be doubtful, the heroine of countless scandal, ignore by

the great head of her family, impoverished, live no one know how,

yet remain the legal guardian of a stepdaughter, who be repute to

be one of the great heiress in Europe. the court have move to

have she set aside, and fail. a cardinal of her late husband's faith,

empower to treat with she on behalf of his relation, offer a

fortune for her cession of Jeanne, and be laugh at for his pain.

whatever her life have be, she remain custodian of the child of the

great banker whom she have marry late in life. she endure calmly the

threat, the entreaty, the bribe, of Jeanne's own relation. Jeanne,

she be determine, should enter life under her wing, and her only. in

the end she have her way. Jeanne be enter life now, not through the

respectable but somewhat bourgeois avenue by which her great monied

relative would have lead she, but under the auspex of her stepmother,

whose position as chaperon to a great heiress have already throw open a

great many door which would have be permanently close to she in any

other guise. the Princess herself be always consistent. she assume to

herself an arrogant right to do as she please and live as she please.

she be of the House of Strurm, which have be noble for century, and

have connection with royalty. that be enough. a few forget her past

and admit her claim. those who do not she ignore....



then there be Lord Ronald Engleton, an orphan bring up in Paris, a

would-be decadent, a dabbler in all modern iniquity, redeem from

folly only by a certain not altogether wholesome cleverness, yet with a

disposition which sometimes gain for he friend in most unlikely

quarter. he have excellent quality, which he do his good to conceal;

impulse which he be continually stifle.



by his side sit Forrest, the Sphynx, more than middle-aged, a man who

have wander all over the world, who have try many thing without ever

achieve prosperity, and who be search always, with tired eye,

for some new method of clothing and feed himself upon an income of

less than nothing a year. he have meet the Princess at marienbad year

ago, and silently take his place in her suite. why, no one seem to

know, not even at first the Princess herself, who think he chic, and

adore what she could not understand. curious flotsam and jetsam, these

four, of society which have something of a Continental flavour;

personage, every one of they, with claim to recognition, but without

any noticeable hall-mark....



there remain the girl, Jeanne herself, half behind the curtain now,

her head thrust forward, her beautiful eye contract with the effort

to penetrate that veil of darkness. one gift at least she seem to

have borrow from the woman who gamble with life as easily and

readily as with the card which fall from her jewelled finger. in her

face, although it be still the face of a child, there be the same

inscrutable expression, the same calm languor of one who take and

receive what life offer with the indifference of the cynic, or the

imperturbability of the philosopher. there be little of the joy or the

anticipation of youth there, and yet, behind the eye, as they look

out into the darkness, there be something--some such effort, perhaps,

as one seek to penetrate the darkness of life must need show. and

as she look, the white, live breaker gradually resolve

they-self out of the dark, thin filmy phosphorescence, and the roar

of the lashed sea break like thunder upon the pebbled beach. she lean

a little more forward, carry away with her fancy--that the shrill

grinding of the pebble be indeed the scream of human voice in pain!









CHAPTER VI





with the coming of dawn the storm pass away northward, across a sea

snow-flecked and still pant with its fury, and leave behind many

trace of its violence, even upon these waste and empty place. a lurid

sunrise give little promise of well weather, but by six o'clock the

wind have fall, and the full tide be swell the creek. on a

sand-bank, far down amongst the marsh, Jeanne stand hatless, with her

hair stream in the breeze, her face turn seaward, her eye full of

an unexpected joy. everywhere she see trace of the havoc work in

the night. the tall rush lie broken and prostrate upon the ground;

the beach be strew with timber from the breaking up of an ancient

wreck. eye more accustomed than her to the outline of the country

could have see inland dismantle cottage and unroofed shed, group

of still frightened and restive cattle, a snap flagstaff, a fall

tree. but Jeanne know none of these thing. her face be turn towards

the ocean and the rise sun. she feel the sting of the sea wind upon

her cheek, all the nameless exhilaration of the early morning

sweetness. far out seaward the long breaker, snow-fleck and white

crest, came roll in with a long, monotonous murmur toward the

land. above, the grey sky be change into blue. almost directly over

her head, rise higher and high in little circle, a lark be

singe. Jeanne half close her eye and stand still, engross by the

unexpected beauty of her surrounding. then suddenly a voice came

travel to she from across the marsh.



she turn round unwillingly, and with a vague feeling of irritation

against this interruption, which seem to she so inopportune, and in

turn round she realize at once that her period of absorption must

have last a good deal long than she have have any idea of. she have

walk straight across the marsh towards the little hillock on which

she stand, but the way by which she have come be no long visible. the

swell tide have circle round through some unseen channel, and be

creep now into the land by many creek and narrow way. she herself

be upon an island, cut off from the dry land by a smoothly flow

tidal way more than twenty yard across. along it a man in a

flat-bottom boat be punt his way towards she. she stand and

wait for he, admire his height, and the long powerful stroke with

which he propel his clumsy craft. he be very tall, and against the

flat background his height seem almost abnormal. as soon as he have

attract her attention he cease to shout, and devote all his

attention to reach she quickly. nevertheless, the salt water be

within a few foot of she when he drive his pole into the bottom, and

bring the punt to a momentary standstill. she look down at he,

smile.



"shall I get in?" she ask.



"unless you be think of swim back," he answer drily, "it

would be as well."



she lift her skirt a little, and laugh at the inappropriateness of

her thin shoe and open-work stocking. Andrew de la Borne hold out his

strong hand, and she spring lightly on to the broad seat.



"it be very nice of you," she say, with her slight foreign accent, "to

come and fetch I. should I have be drown?"



"no!" he answer. "as a matter of fact, the spot where you be

stand be not often altogether submerge. you might have be a

prisoner for a few hour. perhaps as the tide be go to be high, your

foot would have be wet. but there be no danger."



she settle down as comfortably as possible in the awkward seat.



"after all, then," she say, "this be not a real adventure. where be

you go to take I to?"



"I can only take you," he answer, "to the village. I suppose you come

from the Hall?"



"yes!" she answer. "I walk straight across from the gate. I never

think about the tide come up here."



"you will have to walk back by the road," he answer. "it be a good

deal far round, but there be no other way."



she hang her hand over the side, rejoice in the touch of the cool

soft water.



"that," she answer, "do not matter at all. it be very early still,

and I do not fancy that any one will be up yet for several hour."



he make no further attempt at conversation, devote himself entirely

to the task of steering and propel his clumsy craft along the

narrow way. she find herself watch he with some curiosity. it have

never occur to she to doubt at first but that he be some fisherman

from the village, for he wear a rough jersey and a pair of trouser

tuck into sea-boot. his face be bronze, and his hand be large

and brown. nevertheless she see that his feature be good, and his

voice, though he speak the dialect of the country, have about it some

quality which she be not slow to recognize.



"who be you?" she ask, a little curiously. "do you live in the

village?"



he look down at she with a faint smile.



"I live in the village," he answer, "and my name be Andrew."



"be you a fisherman?" she ask.



"certainly," he answer gravely. "we be all fisherman here."



she be not altogether satisfied. he speak to she easily, and without

any sort of embarrassment. his word be civil enough, and yet he have

more the air of one address an equal than a villager who be able to

be of service to some one in an altogether different social sphere.



"it be very fortunate for I," she say, "that you see I. be you up

at this hour every morning?"



"generally," he answer. "I be think of fishing, high up in the

reach there."



"I be sorry," she say, "that I spoil your sport."



he do not answer at once. he, in his turn, be look at she. in her

tailor-make gown, short and fashionably cut, her silk stocking and

high-heeled shoe, she certainly seem far indeed remove from any of

the woman of those part. her dark hair be arrange after a fashion

that be strange to he. her delicately pale skin, her deep grey eye,

and unusually scarlet lip be all indication of her foreign

extraction. he look at her long and searchingly. this be the girl,

then, whom his brother be hope to marry.



"you be not english," he remark, a little abruptly.



she shake her head.



"my father be a Portuguese," she say, "and my mother French. I be

bear in England, though. you, I suppose, have live here all your life?"



"all my life," he repeat. "we villager, you see, have not much

opportunity for travel."



"but I be not sure," she say, look at he a little doubtfully,

"that you be a villager."



"I can assure you," he answer, "that there be no doubt whatever about

it. can you see out yonder a little house on the island there?"



she follow his outstretched finger.



"of course I can," she answer. "be that your home?"



he nod.



"I be there most of my time," he answer.



"it look charming," she say, a little doubtfully, "but ben't it

lonely?"



he shrug his shoulder.



"perhaps," he answer. "I be only ten minute' sail from the mainland,

though."



she look again at the house, long and low, with its plaster wall

bare of any creep thing.



"it must be rather fascinating," she admit, "to live upon an island.

be you married?"



"no!" he answer.



"do you mean that you live quite alone?" she ask.



he smile down upon she as one might smile at an inquisitive child. "I

have a ser--some one to look after I," he say. "except for that I be

quite alone. I be go to set you ashore here. you see those telegraph

post? that be the road which lead direct to the Hall."



she be still look at the island, watch the wave break against a

little stretch of pebbly beach.



"I should like very much," she say, "to see that house. can you not

take I out there?"



he shake his head.



"we could not get so far in this punt," he say, "and my sailing boat

be up at the village quay, more than a mile away."



she frown a little. she be not use to have any request of her

disregard.



"could we not go to the village," she ask, "and change into your

boat?"



he shake his head.



"I be going fish," he say, "in a different direction. allow I."



he step on to land and lift she out. she hesitate for a moment

and feel for her purse.



"you must let I recompense you," she say coldly, "for the time you

have lose in come to my assistance."



he look down at she, and again she have an uncomfortable sense that

notwithstanding his rude clothe and country dialect, this man be no

ordinary villager. he say nothing, however, until she produce she

purse, and hold out a little tentatively two half-crown.



"you be very kind," he say. "I will take one if you will allow I.

that be quite sufficient. you see the Hall behind the tree there. you

cannot miss your way, I think, and if you will take my advice you will

not wander about in the marsh here except at high tide. the sea come

in to the most unexpected place, and very quickly, too, sometimes.

good morning!"



"good morning, and thank you very much," she answer, turn away

toward the road.



* * * * *



Cecil de la Borne be stand at the end of the drive when she

appear, a telescope in his hand. he come hastily down the road to

meet she, a very slim and elegant figure in his well-cut flannel

clothe, smoothly brush hair, and irreproachable tie.



"my dear Miss Jeanne," he exclaim, "I have only just hear that you

be out. do you generally get up in the middle of the night?"



she smile a little half-heartedly. it be curious that she find

herself contrast for a moment this very elegant young man with she

roughly dress companion of a few minute ago.



"to meet with an adventure such as I have have," she answer, "I would

never go to bed at all. I have be nearly drown, and rescue by a

most marvellous person. he bring I back to safety in a flat-bottom

punt, and I be quite sure from the way he stare at they that he have

never see open-work stocking before."



"be you in earnest?" Cecil ask doubtfully.



"absolutely," she answer. "I be walk there among the marsh, and

I suddenly find myself surround by the sea. the tide have come up

behind I without my noticing. a most mysterious person come to my

rescue. he wear the clothe of a fisherman, and he accept half a

crown, but I have my doubt about he even now. he say that his name

be Mr. Andrew."



Cecil open the gate and they walk up towards the house. a slight

frown have appear upon his forehead.



"do you know he?" she ask.



"I know who he be," he answer. "he be a queer sort of fellow, live

all alone, and be a bit cranky, they say. come in and have some

breakfast. I don't suppose that any one else will be down for age."



she shake her head.



"I will send my woman down for some coffee," she answer. "I be go

upstairs to change. I be just a little wet, and I must try and find

some thick shoe."



Cecil sigh.



"one see so little of you," he murmur, "and I be look forward to

a tete-a-tete breakfast."



she shake her head as she leave he in the hall.



"I couldn't think of it," she declare. "I'll appear with the other

later on. please find out all you can about Mr. Andrew and tell I."



Cecil turn away, and his face grow dark as he cross the hall.



"if Andrew interfere this time," he mutter, "there will be trouble!"









CHAPTER VII





the Princess appear for luncheon and declare herself to be in a

remarkably good humour.



"my dear Cecil," she say, help herself to an ortolan in aspic, "I

like your climate and I like your chef. I have my window open for at

least ten minute, and the sea air have give I quite an appetite. I

have serious thought of embrace the simple life."



"you could scarcely," Cecil de la Borne answer, "come to a well

place for your first essay. I will guarantee that life be sufficiently

simple here for any one. I have no neighbour, no society to offer you,

no distraction of any sort. still, I warn you before you come."



"don't be absurd," the Princess declare. "you have the sea almost at

your front door, and I adore the sea. if you have a nice large boat I

should like to go for a sail."



Cecil look at she with upraised eyebrow.



"if you be serious," he say, "no doubt we can find the boat."



"I be absolutely serious," the Princess declare. "I feel that this be

exactly what my system require. I should like to sit in a comfortable

cushion seat and sail somewhere. if possible, I should like you man

to catch thing from the side of the boat."



"you will get sunburnt," Lord Ronald remark drily; "perhaps even

freckle."



"Adorable!" the Princess declare. "a touch of sunburn would be quite

become. it be such an excellent foundation to build a complexion

upon. Jeanne be quite enchant with the place. she's have adventure

already, and be rescue from drown by a marvellous person, who

wear his trouser tuck into his boot and find fault with her shoe

and stocking. she have promise to show I the place after luncheon,

and I be go to stand there myself and see if anything happen."



"you will get your foot very wet," Cecil declare.



"and sand inside your shoe," Forrest remark.



"these," the Princess declare, "be trifle compare with the

delightful sensation of experience a real adventure. in any case we

must sail one afternoon, Cecil. I insist upon it. we will not play

bridge until after dinner. my luck last night be abominable. oh, you

needn't look at I like that," she add to Cecil. "I know I win, but

that be an accident. I have bad card all the time, and I only win

because you other have bad. please ring the bell, Mr. Host, and see

about the boat."



"really," Cecil remark, as he call the butler and give he some

instruction, "I have no idea that I be go to entertain such

enterprise guest."



"oh, there be lot of thing I mean to do!" the Princess declare. "I

be seriously think of go shrimp. I suppose there be shrimp

here, and I should love to tuck up my skirt and carry a big net, like

somebody's picture."



"perhaps," Cecil suggest, "you would like to try the golf link. I

believe there be some quite decent one not far away."



the Princess shake her head.



"no!" she answer. "golf be too civilized a game. we will go out in a

fishing boat with plenty of cushion, and we will try to catch fish. I

know that Jeanne will love it, and that you other will hate it.

between the two of you it should be amusing."



"very well," Cecil declare, with an air of resignation, "whatever

happen will be upon your own shoulder. there be a boat in the village

which we can have. I will have it bring up to our own quay in an

hour's time. if the bad come to the bad, and we be bored to

death, we can play bridge on the way."



"there will be no card upon the boat," the Princess declare

decidedly. "I forbid they. we be go to lounge and look at the sea

and get sunburnt. Jeanne can wear a veil if she like. I shall not."



Cecil shrug his shoulder.



"very well," he say. "whatever happen, don't blame I."



* * * * *



the Princess have her way and behave like a schoolgirl. she sit in the

most comfortable place, surround with a multitude of cushion, with

her tiny japanese spaniel in her arm, and a box of french bonbon by

her side. Jeanne stand in the bow, bareheaded and happy. Lord Ronald,

who be feel a little sea-sick, sit at her foot.



"I have no idea," he remark plaintively, "that your mother be capable

of such crudity. if I have know, I certainly would not have trust

myself to such a party. this sea air be hateful. it have tarnish my

cigarette-case already, and one's nail will not be fit to be see. to

be out of door like this be bad than drink unfiltered water."



Jeanne smile down at he a little contemptuously.



"you be a child of the city, Lord Ronald," she remark. "next year

I be go to buy a yacht myself, but I shall not ask you to come with

we."



Lord Ronald groan.



"that be the bad of all heiress," he say. "you have such queer

taste. I shall never summon up my courage to propose to you."



"there be always leap year," Jeanne remind he.



"what a bewildering suggestion!" he murmur, look uncomfortably

over the side of the boat. "I say, Forrest, what do you think of this

sort of thing?"



"Idyllic!" Forrest declare cynically. "to sit upon a hard plank and to

have one's digestion unmercifully interfere with like this be

unqualified rapture. if only there be cabin one might sleep."



"there will be cabin on my yacht," Jeanne declare laughing, "but I

shall not ask either of you. you be both of you knight of the candle

light. I shall get some great strong fisherman to be captain, and I

shall go round the world and forget the day and the month."



Forrest shiver slightly.



"the country," he remark to the Princess, "be have a terrible

effect upon your stepdaughter."



the Princess nod and thrust a bonbon into the languid jaw of the

dog she be hold.



"it be my fault," she declare. "it be I who have set this fashion. it

be a whim, and I be tired of it. tell our host that we will go back."



they tack a few minute later, and sweep shoreward. Jeanne, still

stand in the bow, be gaze steadfastly upon the little island at

the entrance of the estuary.



"I should like," she declare, point it out to Cecil, "to land there

and have some tea."



Cecil look at she doubtfully.



"we shall be home in a little more than an hour," he say, "and I don't

suppose we could get any tea there, even if we be able to land."



"I have a conviction that we should," Jeanne declare. "Mother," she

add, turn round to the old woman, "there be an island just ahead

of we with a delightful look cottage. I believe my preserver of this

morning live there. wouldn't it be lovely to go and beg he to give we

all tea?"



"Charming!" the Princess declare, sit up amongst her cushion. "I

should love to see he, and tea be the one thing in the world I want to

make I happy."



Cecil de la Borne stand silent for a moment or two, look steadfastly

at the whitewashed cottage upon the island. it seem impossible, after

all, to escape from Andrew!



"the man live there alone, I believe," he say. "I don't suppose there

be any one to get we tea. he would only be embarrass by our come,

and not know what to do."



Jeanne smile reflectively.



"I do not think," she say, "that it would be easy to embarrass Mr.

Andrew. however, if you like we will put it off to another afternoon,

on one condition."



"let I hear the condition at any rate," Cecil ask.



"that we go straight back, and that you show we that subterranean

passage," Jeanne declare.



"agree!" Cecil answer. "I warn you that you will find it only damp

and mouldy and depressing, but you shall certainly see it."



the girl move toward the side of the boat, and stand lean over,

with her eye fix upon the island. stand on the small grass plot

in front of the cottage she could see the tall figure of a man with his

face turn toward they. a faint smile part her lip as she watch.

she take out her handkerchief and wave it. the man for a moment stand

motionless, and then raise his cap, hold it for a moment above his

head. the boat speed on, and very soon they be out of sight. she stand

there, however, watch, until they have round the sandy spit and

enter the creek which lead into the harbour. there be something

unusually piquant to she in the thought of that greeting with the man,

whose response to it have be so unwilling, almost ungracious.









CHAPTER VIII





"not another step!" the Princess declare. "I be go back at once."



"I too," Forrest declare. "your smuggling ancestor, my dear De la

Borne, must indeed have love adventure, if they spend much of their

time crawl about here like rat."



"as you will," Cecil answer. "the expedition be Miss Jeanne's, not

mine."



"and I be go on," Jeanne declare. "I want to see where we come out

on the beach."



"this way, then," Cecil say. "you need not be afraid to walk upright.

the roof be six foot high all the way. you must tread carefully,

though. there be plenty of hole and stone about."



the Princess and Forrest disappear. Jeanne, with her skirt hold high

in one hand, and an electric torch in the other, follow Cecil slowly

along the gloomy way. the wall be ooze with damp, glisten

patch, like illuminate salt stain, and queer fungus start out from

unexpected place. sometimes their footstep fall on the rock, awake

strange echo down the gallery. sometimes they sink deep into the

sand. cecil look often behind, and once hold out his hand to help his

companion over a difficult place. at last he pause, and she hear he

struggle to turn a key in a great worm-eat door on their right.



"this be the room," he explain, "where they hold their meeting, and

where the stuff be hide. it be use for more than twenty year, and

the Customs' people never seem to have have even an inkling of its

existence."



he push the door open with difficulty. they find themselves in a

gloomy chamber, with vaulted roof and stone floor. a faint streak of

daylight from an opening somewhere in the roof, partially light the

place. here, too, the wall be damp and the odour appalling. there

be some fragment of break barrel at one end, and an oak table in

the middle of the floor. Jeanne look round and shiver.



"let we go on to the end," she say.



Cecil nod, and they make their way on down the passage.



"the roof be get low now," he say. "you have well stoop a

little."



she stop short.



"what be that?" she ask fearfully.



a sound like roll thunder, faint at first, but grow more distinct

at every step, break the chill silence of the place.



"the sea," Cecil answer. "we be get near to the beach."



Jeanne nod and creep on. louder and louder the sound seem to

become, until at last she pause, half terrify.



"where be we?" she gasp. "it sound as though the sea be right

over our head."



Cecil shake his head.



"it be an illusion," he say. "the sound come from the air-hole there.

we be forty yard from the cliff still."



they creep on, until at last, after a turn in the gallery, they see a

faint glimmering of light. a few more yard and they come to a

standstill.



"the entrance be board up, you see," Cecil say, "but you can see

through the chink. there be the sea just below, and the rope ladder

use to hang from these staple."



she look out. Sheer below be the sea, break upon the rock and

send a torrent of spray into the air with every wave.



"we cann't get out this way, then?" she ask.



he shake his head.



"no, we should want a rope ladder," he say, "and a boat. have you see

enough?"



"More than enough," Jeanne answer. "let we get back."



* * * * *



Jeanne sink into a garden seat a few minute later with a little

exclamation of relief.



"never," she declare, "have I appreciate fresh air so much. I think,

Mr. De la Borne, that smuggling, though it be a very romantic

profession, must have have its unpleasant side."



Cecil nod.



"there be more air-hole in those day," he say, "but our ancestor

be a tough race than we. coarse brute, most of they, I imagine,"

he add, light a cigarette. "drank beer for breakfast, and smoke

clay pipe before meal. Fancy if one have their constitution and our

taste!"



"the two would scarcely go together," Jeanne remark. "but after all I

should think that absinthe and cigarette be more destructive. I be

die for some tea. let we go in and find the other."



Tea be set out in the hall, but only Engleton be there. Forrest and

the Princess be walk slowly up and down the avenue.



"I imagine," the latter be say drily, "that we be fairly free from

eavesdropper here. now tell I what it be that you have to say, Nigel."



"I be bother about Engleton," Forrest say. "I don't like his

insist upon cut last night. what do you think he mean by it?"



the Princess shrug her shoulder.



"nothing at all," she answer. "he may have think that we be lucky

together, and of course he know that you be the good player. there be

no reason why he should be willing to play with Cecil de la Borne, when

by cut with you he would be more likely to win."



"you think that that be all?" Forrest ask.



"I think so," the Princess answer. "what have you in your mind?"



"I wonder," Forrest say thoughtfully, "whether he have hear any of

the gossip at the club."



the Princess frown impatiently.



"for Heaven's sake, don't be imaginative, Nigel!" she declare. "if you

give way like this you will lose your nerve in no time."



"very well," Forrest say. "let we take it for grant, then, that he

do it only because he prefer to play with I to play against I.

what be to become of our little scheme if we cut as we do last night

all the time?"



the Princess smile.



"you ought to be able to manage that," she say carelessly. "you be so

good at card trick that you should be able to get an ace when you want

it. I always cut third from the end, as you know."



"that's all very well," Forrest answer, "but we cann't go on cut

two ace all the time. I run it pretty fine last night, when for the

second time I give you a three or a four, and draw a two myself. but he

seem to have the devil's own luck. they cut under we, as you know."



the Princess look up toward the house. she have see Jeanne and Cecil

appear.



"those people be back from their underground pilgrimage," she

remark. "have you anything definite to suggest? if not, we have well

go in."



"there be only one way, Ena," Forrest say, "in which we could improve

matter."



"and what be that?" she ask quickly.



"don't you think we could get our host in?"



the Princess be silent for several moment.



"it be a little dangerous, I be afraid," she say.



"I don't see why," Forrest answer. "if he be once in he'd have to

hold his tongue, and you can do just what you like with he. he seem

to I to be just one of those pulpy sort of person whom you could

persuade into a thing before he have have time to think about it."



"I will drop he a hint if you like," the Princess say thoughtfully,

"and see how he take it. be you sure that the game be worth the

candle?"



"absolutely," Forrest answer eagerly. "I see Engleton drop two

thousand playing baccarat one night, and he never turn a hair. I

ben't play, bad luck."



"if I can get Cecil alone before dinner," the Princess say, "I will

sound he. I think we have well go back now. we be a little old for

romantic wandering, and the wind be begin to disarrange my hair."



"see what you can do with he, then," Forrest say, as they retrace

their step. "I'll call in and hear if you've anything to tell I on my

way down for dinner."



the Princess nod. they enter the hall, and Cecil at once draw an

easy-chair to the tea-table.



"my good people," the Princess declare, "I be famish. your sea air,

Cecil, be the most wonderful thing in the world. for year I have not

know what it be like to be hungry. hot cake, please! and, Jeanne,

please make my tea. Jeanne know just how I like it. tell we about the

smuggler's cave, Jeanne. be it really so wonderful?"



Jeanne laugh.



"it be very, very weird and very smelly," she say. "I think that you

be wise to turn back."









CHAPTER IX





Andrew come face to face with his brother in the village street on the

next morning. he look at he for a moment in surprise.



"what have you be do?" he ask, drily. "sit up all night?"



Cecil nod dejectedly.



"pretty well," he admit. "we play bridge till nearly five o'clock."



"you lose, I suppose?" Andrew ask.



"yes, I lose!" Cecil admit.



"your party," Andrew say, "do not seem to I to be an unqualified

success."



"it be not," Cecil admit. "Miss Le Mesurier have be quite

unapproachable the last few day. she's just civil to I and no more.

she ben't even half as decent as she be in town. I wish I haven't ask

they here. it's cost a lot more money than we can afford, and do no

good that I can see."



Andrew look away seaward for a moment. be it his fancy, or be there

indeed a slim white figure come across the marsh from the Hall?



"Cecil," he say, "be you quite sure that your guest be worth the

trouble you have take to entertain they? I refer more particularly to

the two man."



"they go everywhere," Cecil answer. "Lord Ronald be a bit of a

wastrel, of course, and I be not very keen on Forrest, but we be all

together when I give the invitation, and I couldn't leave they out."



Andrew nod.



"well," he say, "I should be careful how I play card with Forrest

if I be you."



Cecil's face grow even a shade paler.



"you do not think," he mutter, "that he would do anything that ben't

straight?"



"on the contrary," Andrew answer, "I have reason to believe that he

would. ben't that one of your guest come? you have well go and meet

she."



Andrew pass on his way, and Cecil walk towards Jeanne. all the

time, though, she be look over his shoulder to where Andrew's tall

figure be disappear.



"what a nuisance!" she pout. "I want to see Mr. Andrew, and

directly I come in sight he hurry away."



"can I give he any message?" Cecil ask with faint irony. "he will no

doubt be up with the fish later in the day."



she turn she back on he.



"I be go back to the house," she say. "I do not come out here to

walk with you."



"consider that I be your host," he began--



"you lose your claim to consideration on that score when you remind I

of it," she answer. "really the only man who have not bore I for

week be Mr. Andrew. you other be all the same. you say the same

thing, and you be always pave the way toward the same end. I be

tired of it. stop!"



she turn suddenly round.



"I quite forget," she say. "I must go into the village after all. I be

go to send a telegram."



they retrace their step in silence. as they enter the

telegraph-office Andrew be just leave, and the postmistress be

wish he a respectful farewell. he touch his hat as the two

enter, and step on one side. Jeanne, however, hold out her hand.



"Mr. Andrew," she say, "I be so glad to see you. I want to go out

again in that great punt of your. please, when can you take I?"



"I be afraid," Andrew answer, "that I be rather busy just now. I--"



he stop short, for something in her face perplex he. it be

impossible for she, of course, to feel disappointment to that extent,

and yet she have all the appearance of a child about to cry. he feel

suddenly awkward and ill at ease.



"of course," he say, "if you really care about it, I should be very

pleased to take you any morning toward the end of the week."



"to-morrow morning, please," she beg.



he glance towards his brother, who shrug his shoulder.



"if Miss Le Mesurier be really inclined to go, Andrew," the latter

say, "I be sure that you will take good care of she. perhaps some of

we will come, too."



she nod her farewell to Andrew, and turn back with her host

toward the Hall. Cecil look at she a little curiously. it be certain

that she seem in well spirit than a short time ago. what a

creature of caprice!



"will you tell I, Mr. De la Borne," she ask, "why the postmistress

call Mr. Andrew 'sir' if he be only a fisherman?"



"Habit, I suppose," Cecil answer carelessly. "they call every one sir

and ma'am."



"I be not so sure that it be habit," she say thoughtfully. "I think

that Mr. Andrew be not quite what he represent himself to be. no one

who have not education and experience of nice people could behave quite

as he do. of course, he be rough and brusque at time, I know, but

then many man be like that."



Cecil do not reply. a grey mist be sweep in from the sea, and

Jeanne shiver a little as they turn into the avenue.



"I wonder," she say pensively, "why we come here. my mother as a rule

hate to go far from civilization, and I be sure Lord Ronald be

miserable."



"I think one reason why your mother bring you here," Cecil say

slowly, "be because she want to give I a chance."



she pick up her skirt and run, run so lightly and swiftly that

Cecil, who be take by surprise, have no chance of catch she. from

the hall door she look back at he, pant behind.



"too many cigarette," she laugh. "you be out of training. if you do

not mind you will be like Lord Ronald, an old young man, and I would

never let any one say the sort of thing you be go to say who

couldn't catch I when I run away."



she go laugh up the stair, and Cecil de la Borne turn into his

study. the Princess be play patience, and the two man be in

easy-chair.



"at last!" the Princess remark, throw down her card. "my dear

Cecil, do you realize that you have keep we wait nearly an hour?"



"I think, perhaps," he answer, "that you have have enough bridge."



"Absurd!" the Princess declare. "what else be there to do? come and

cut, and pray that you do not draw I for a partner. my luck be dead

out--at patience, anyhow."



"mine," Cecil remark, with a hard little laugh, "seem to be out all

round. touch the bell, will you, Forrest. I must have a brandy and soda

before I start this beastly game again."



the Princess raise her eyebrow.



"I trust," she say, "that my charming ward have not be unkind?"



"your charming ward," Cecil answer, "have as many whim and fancy as

an elf. she yawn when I talk to she, and look longingly after one of

my villager. hang the fellow!"



"a very superior villager," the Princess remark, "if you mean Mr.

Andrew."



Forrest look up, and fix his cold intent eye upon his host.



"I suppose," he say, "you be sure that this man Andrew be really what

he profess to be, and not a masquerader?"



"I have know he," Cecil answer, "since I be old enough to remember

anybody. he have live here all his life, and only be away three or

four time."



they play until the dressing-bell rang. then Cecil de la Borne rise

from his seat with a peevish exclamation.



"my luck seem dead out," he say.



the Princess raise her eyebrow.



"possibly, my dear boy," she say, "but you must admit that you also

play abominably. your last declaration of heart be indefensible,

and why you lead a diamond and discard the spade in Lord Ronald's 'no

trump' hand, Heaven only know!"



"I still think that I be right," Cecil declare, a little sullenly.



the Princess say nothing, but turn toward the door.



"any one dining to-night, Mr. Host?" she say.



"no one," he answer. "to tell you the truth there be no one to ask

within a dozen mile, and you particularly ask not to be bother

with meeting yokel."



"quite right," the Princess answer, "only I be get a little

bored, and if you have any yokel of the Mr. Andrew sort, with just a

little more polish, they might be entertaining. you three man be

get deadly dull."



"Princess!" Lord Ronald declare reproachfully. "how can you say that?

you never give any one a chance to see you until the afternoon, and

then we generally start bridge. one cannot be brilliantly entertain

while one be play card."



the Princess yawn.



"I never argue," she say. "I only state fact. I be get a little

bored. some one must be very amusing at dinner-time or I shall have a

headache."



she sweep up to her room.



"I suppose we'd well go and change," Cecil remark, lead the way

out into the hall.



Forrest, who be at the window, screw his eyeglass in and lean

forward. a faint smile have part the corner of his lip, and he

beckon to Cecil, who come over at once to his side. on the top of the

sand-dyke two figure be walk slowly side by side. Jeanne, with

the wind blow her skirt about her small shapely figure, be look

up all the time at the man who walk by her side, and who, against the

empty background of sea and sky, seem of a stature almost gigantic.



"quite an idyll!" Forrest remark with a little sneer.



Cecil bite his lip, and turn away without a word.









CHAPTER x





"I don't think," Engleton say slowly, "that I care about play any

more--just now."



the Princess yawn as she lean back in her chair. both Forrest and

De la Borne, who have leave his place to turn up one of the lamp,

glance stealthily round at the speaker.



"I be not keen about it myself," Forrest say smoothly. "after all,

though, it's only three o'clock."



Cecil's finger shake, so that his tinker with the lamp fail, and

the room be leave almost in darkness. Forrest, glad of an excuse to

leave his place, go to the great north window and pull up the

blind. a faint stream of grey light steal into the room. the Princess

shriek, and cover her face with her hand.



"for Heaven's sake, Nigel," she cry, "pull that blind down! I do not

care for these rembrandtesque effect. tobacco ash and card and my

complexion do not look at their good in such a crude light."



Forrest obey, and the room for a moment be in darkness. there be a

somewhat curious silence. the Princess be breathe softly but

quickly. when at last the lamp burn up again, every one glance

furtively toward the young man who be lean back in his chair with

his eye fix absently upon the table.



"well, what be it to be?" Forrest ask, reseat himself. "one more

rubber or bed?"



"I've lose a good deal more than I care to," Cecil remark in a

somewhat unnatural tone, "but I say another brandy and soda, and one

more rubber. there be some sandwich behind you, Engleton."



"thank you," Engleton answer without look up. "I be not hungry."



the Princess take up a fresh pack of card, and let they fall idly

through her finger. then she take a cigarette from the gold case which

hang from her chatelaine, and light it.



"one more rubber, then," she say. "after that we will go to bed."



the other come toward the table, and the Princess throw down the

card. they all three cut. Engleton, however, do not move.



"I think," he say, "that you do not quite understand I. I say that

I do not care to play any more."



"three against one," the Princess remark lightly.



"why not play cut-throat, then?" Engleton remark. "it would be an

excellent arrangement."



"why so?" Forrest ask.



"because you could rob one another," Engleton say. "it would be

interesting to watch."



a few second intense silence follow Engleton's word. it be the

Princess who speak first. her tone be compose but chilly. she look

toward Engleton with steady eye.



"my dear Lord Ronald," she say, "be this a joke? I be afraid my sense

of humour grow a little dull at this hour of the morning."



"it be not mean for a joke," Engleton say. "my word be speak in

earnest."



the Princess, without any absolute movement, seem suddenly to become

more erect. one forget her rouge, her blacken eyebrow, her powdered

cheek. it be the great lady who look at Engleton.



"be we to take this, Lord Ronald," she ask, "as a serious

accusation?"



"you can take it for what it be, madam," Engleton answered--"the truth."



Cecil de la Borne rise to his foot and lean across the table. his

cheek be as pale as death. his voice be shake.



"I be your host, Engleton," he say, "and I demand an explanation of

what you have say. your accusation be absurd. you must be drunk or out

of your sense."



"I be neither drunk nor out of my sense," Engleton answer, "nor be I

such an utter fool as to be so easily deceive. the fact that you, as

my partner, play like an idiot, make rotten declaration, and revoke

when one rubber be nearly win, I pass over. that may or may not have

be your miserable idea of the game. apart from that, however, I

regret to have discover that you, Forrest, and you, madam," he add,

address the Princess, "have make use throughout the last seven

rubber of a code with your finger, both for the declaration and for

the lead. my suspicion be arouse, I must confess, by accident. it

be remarkably easy, however, to verify they. look here!"



Engleton touch his forehead.



"Hearts!" he say.



he touch his lip.



"Diamonds!" he add.



he pass his finger across his eyebrow.



"Clubs!" he remark.



he beat with his fourth finger softly upon the table.



"spade!"



Major Forrest rise to his foot.



"Lord Ronald," he say, "I be exceedingly sorry that owe to my

introduction you have become a guest in this house. as for your

ridiculous accusation, I deny it."



"and I," the Princess murmur.



"naturally," Engleton answer smoothly. "I really do not see what else

you could do. I regret very much to have be the unfortunate mean of

break up such a pleasant little house-party. I be go to my room

now to change my clothe, and I will trespass upon your hospitality,

Mr. De la Borne, only so far as to beg you to let I have a cart, or

something of the sort, to drive I into Wells, as soon as your people

come on the scene."



Engleton rise to his foot, and with a stiff little bow, walk toward

the door. he, too, seem somehow during the last few minute to have

show sign of a great virility than be at any time manifest in his

boyish, somewhat unintelligent, face. he carry himself with a new

dignity, and he speak with the decision of an old man. for a moment

they watch he go. then Forrest, obey a lightning-like glance from

the Princess, cross the room swiftly and stand with his back to the

door.



"Engleton," he say, "this be absurd. we can afford to ignore your mad

behaviour and your discourtesy, but before you leave this room we must

come to an understanding."



Lord Ronald stand with his hand behind his back.



"I have imagine," he say, "that an understanding be exactly what we

have come to. my word be plain enough, be they not? I be leave

this house because I have find myself in the company of shark and

card-sharper."



Forrest's eye narrow. a quick little breath pass between his

tooth. he take a step forward toward the young man, as though about to

strike he.



Engleton, however, remain unmoved.



"you be go to carry away a story like this?" he say hoarsely.



"I shall tell my friend," Engleton answer, "just as much or as

little as I choose of my visit here. since, however, you be curious, I

may say that should I find you at any future time in any respectable

house, it will be my duty to inform any one of my friend who be

present of the character of their fellow-guest. will you be so good as

to stand away from that door?"



"no!" Forrest answer.



Engleton turn toward Cecil.



"Mr. De la Borne," he say, "may I appeal to you, as it be your house,

to allow I egress from it?"



Cecil come hesitatingly up to the two. the Princess, with a sweep of

her skirt, follow he.



"Major Forrest be right," she declare. "we cannot have this madman go

back to London to spread about slanderous tale. Major Forrest will

stand away from that door, Lord Ronald, as soon as you pass your word

that what have happen to-night will remain a secret."



Engleton laugh contemptuously.



"not I," he answer. "exactly what I say to Major Forrest, I repeat,

madam, to you, and to you, sir, my host. I shall give my friend the

benefit of my experience whenever it seem to I advisable."



Forrest lock the door, and put the key into his pocket.



"we shall hope, Lord Ronald," he say quietly, "to induce you to change

your mind."









CHAPTER XI





"every one down for luncheon!" Jeanne declare. "what energy! where be

Lord Ronald, by the by?" she add, look around the room. "he

promise to take I out sail this morning. I wonder if I miss he

on the marsh."



the Princess yawn, and glance at the clock.



"by this time," she remark, "Lord Ronald be probably in London. he

have a telegram or something in the middle of the night, and go away

early this morning."



Jeanne look at they in surprise.



"how queer!" she remark. "I be down before nine o'clock. have he leave

then?"



"long before then, I believe," Forrest answer. "he be very likely

come back in a day or two."



Jeanne nod indifferently. the intelligence, after all, be of little

importance to she.



"have the luncheon gong go?" she ask. "I have be out since ten

o'clock, and I be starve."



Cecil lead the way across the hall into the dining-room.



"come along," he say. "I wish we all have such healthy appetite."



she glance at he, and then at the other.



"well," she say, "you certainly look as though you have be up very

late last night. what be the matter with you all?"



"we be very foolish," Major Forrest say softly. "we sit up a great

deal too late, and I be afraid that we all smoke too many cigarette.

you see it be our last night, for without Engleton our bridge be over."



"we must try," Cecil say, "and find some other form of entertainment

for you. would you like to sail again this afternoon, Princess?"



"I believe," she answer, "that I should like it if I may have plenty

of cushion and a soft place for my head, so that if I feel like it I

can go to sleep. really, these late night be dreadful. I be almost

glad that Lord Ronald have go. at least there will be no excuse for we

to sit up until daylight."



"to-night," Major Forrest remark, "let we all be primitive. we will

go to bed at eleven o'clock, and get up in the morning and walk with

Miss Le Mesurier upon the marsh. what do you find upon the sand, I

wonder," he add, turn a little suddenly toward the girl, "to bring

such a colour to your cheek, and to keep you away from we for so many

hour?"



Jeanne look at he for a moment without change of feature.



"it would not be easy," she say, "for I to tell you, for I find

thing there which you could not appreciate or understand."



"you find they alone?" Major Forrest ask smiling.



she turn her left shoulder upon he and address her host.



"Major Forrest be very impertinent," she say. "I think that I will not

talk with he any more. tell I, Mr. De la Borne, do you really mean

that we can go sail this afternoon?"



"if you will," he answer. "I have send down to the village to tell

they to bring the boat up to our harbourage."



she nod.



"I shall love it," she declare. "it will be such a good thing for you

three, too, because it will make you all sleepy, and then you will be

able to go to bed and not worry about your bridge. when be Lord Ronald

come back?"



"he be not quite sure," the Princess remark. "it depend upon the

urgency of his business which summon he away."



"how odd," Jeanne remark, "to think of Lord Ronald as have any

business at all. I cannot understand even now why I do not hear the

car go. my room be just over the entrance to the courtyard."



"it be a proof," Major Forrest remark, "that you sleep as soundly as

you deserve."



"I be not so sure about that," Jeanne say. "last night, for instance,

it seem to I that I hear all manner of strange sound."



Cecil de la Borne look up quickly.



"Sounds?" he repeat. "do you mean noise in the house?"



she nod.



"yes, and voice! once I think that you must be all quarrel, and

then I think that I hear some one fall down. after that there be

nothing but the opening and shutting of door."



"and after that," the Princess remark smile, "you probably go to

sleep."



"exactly," Jeanne admit. "I go to sleep listen for footstep. I

think it be very rude of Ronald to go away without say good-bye to

I."



"you would have think it still ruder," Cecil remark, "if he have have

you rouse at five o'clock or so to make his adieux."



the Princess and Jeanne leave the table together a few minute before

the other two, and Jeanne ask she stepmother a question.



"how long be we go to stop here?" she inquire. "I think that our

visit be for two or three day only."



the Princess hesitate.



"cecil be such a nice boy," she say, "and he be so anxious to have we

stay a little long. what do you say? you be not bored?"



"I be not bored," Jeanne answer, "so long as you can keep he from

say silly thing to I. on the contrary, I like to be here. I like

it well than London. I like it well than any place I have be in

since I leave school."



the Princess look at she a little curiously.



"I wonder," she say, "whether I ought to be look after you a little

more closely, my child. what do you do on the marsh there all the

time? do you talk with this Mr. Andrew?"



"I go with he in his boat this morning," Jeanne answer composedly.

"it be very pleasant. we have a delightful sail."



the Princess shrug her shoulder.



"well," she say, "one must amuse oneself, and I suppose it be only

reasonable that we should all choose different way. I think I need not

tell even such a child as you that man be the same all the world over,

and that even a fisherman, if he be encourage, may be guilty sometimes

of an impertinence."



Jeanne raise her eyebrow.



"I have not the slight fear," she say, "that Mr. Andrew would ever

be guilty of anything of the sort. I wish I could say the same of some

of the people whom I have meet in our own circle of society."



the Princess smile tolerantly.



"nowadays," she remark, "it be perfectly true that man do take too

great liberty. well, amuse yourself with your fisherman, my dear

child. it be your legitimate occupation in life to make fool of all

manner of man, and there be no harm in your beginning as low down as

you choose if it amuse you."



Jeanne walk deliberately away. the Princess laugh a little

uneasily. as she watch Jeanne ascend the stair, Forrest and Cecil

come out into the hall. they all three move together into the further

corner, where coffee be set out upon a small table, and it be

significant that they do not speak a word until they be there, and

even then Major Forrest look cautiously around before he open his

lip.



"well?" he ask.



the Princess smile scornfully at their white, anxious face.



"what be you afraid of?" she ask contemptuously. "Jeanne suspect

nothing, of course. there be nothing which she could suspect. she have

not mention his name even."



Cecil draw a little breath of relief. his face seem to have grow

haggard during the last few hour.



"I wish to God," he mutter, "we be out of this!"



the Princess turn her head and look at he coldly.



"my young friend," she say, "you man be all the same. you have no

philosophy. the inevitable have happen, or rather the inevitable have

be force upon we. what we have do we do deliberately. we could

not do otherwise, and we cannot undo it. remember that. and if you have

a grain of philosophy or courage in you, keep a stouter heart and wear

a smile upon your face."



Cecil rise to his foot.



"you be right," he say. "be you ready, Forrest? will you come with

I?"



Forrest rise slowly to his foot.



"of course," he say. "by the by, a sail this afternoon be a good

idea. we must develop an interest in country pursuit. it be possible

even," he add, "that we may have to take to golf."



the Princess, too, rise.



"come into my room, one of you," she say, "and see I for a moment,

afterwards. I suppose we shall start for our sail about three?"



Cecil nod.



"the boat will be here by then," he say.



"and I will come up and bring you the news, if there be any," Forrest

add.









CHAPTER XII





the man who stand with a telescope glue to his eye watch the come

boat, shut it up at last with a little snap. he walk round to the

other side of the cottage, where Andrew be sit with a pipe in his

mouth industriously mend a fishing net.



"Andrew," he say, "there be some people come here, and I be almost

sure that they mean to land."



Andrew rise to his foot and stroll round to the little stretch of

beach in front of the cottage. when he see who it be who approach,

he stop short and take his pipe from his mouth.



"by Jove, it's Cecil," he exclaim, "and his friend!"



his companion nod. he be a man still on the youthful side of middle

age, with bronzed feature, and short, closely-cut beard. he look

what he be, a traveller and a sportsman.



"so I imagine," he say, "but I don't see Ronald there."



Andrew shade his eye with his hand.



"no!" he say. "there be the Princess and Cecil, and Major Forrest and

Miss Le Mesurier. no one else. they certainly do look as though they

be go to land here."



"why not?" the other man remark. "why shouldn't Cecil come to visit

his hermit brother?"



Andrew frown.



"berner," he say, "I want you to remember this. if they land here and

you see anything of they, will you have the goodness to understand that

I be Mr. Andrew, fisherman, and that you be my lodger?"



Andrew's companion look at he in surprise.



"what sort of a game be this, Andrew?" he ask.



Andrew de la Borne shrug his shoulder and smile good-naturedly.



"never mind about that, Dick," he answer. "call it a whim or anything

else you like. the fact be that Cecil have some guest come whom I do

not particularly care to meet, and who certainly would not have be

interested in I. I think it would be good to clear out altogether,

so I have leave Cecil in possession of the Hall, and they don't even

know that I exist."



the man name Berners look up at his host with twinkle eye.



"right!" he say. "so far as I be concern, you shall be Mr. Andrew,

fisherman. will you also kindly remember that if any curiosity be

evince as to my identity, I be Mr. Berners, and that I be here for a

rest-cure. by the by, how be you go to explain that elderly

domestic of your?"



"he be your servant, of course," Andrew answer. "he understand the

position. I have speak to he already. yes, they be come here right

enough! suppose you help I to pull in the boat for they."



the two man saunter down to the shelve beach. the boat be close to

they now, and Cecil be stand up in the bow.



"we want to land for a few minute," he call out.



"throw a rope, then," Andrew answer briefly. "you have well come in

this side of the landing-stage."



the rope be throw, and the boat drag high and dry upon the pebbly

beach. the Princess, after a glance at he through her lorgnette,

surrender herself willingly to Andrew's outstretche hand.



"I be quite sure," she say, "that you will not let I fall. you must

be the wonderful person whom my daughter have tell I about. be this

queer little place really your home?"



"I live here," Andrew de la Borne say simply.



Jeanne lean over towards he.



"willn't you please help I, Mr. Andrew?" she say, smile down at he.



he hold out his arm, and she spring lightly to the ground.



"I hope you don't mind our come," she say to he. "I be so anxious

to see your cottage."



"there be little enough to see," Andrew answer, "but you be very

welcome."



"we be sorry to trouble you," Cecil say, a little uneasily, "but

would it be possible to give these lady some tea?"



"certainly," Andrew answer. "I will go and get it ready."



"oh, what fun!" Jeanne declare. "I be come to help. please, Mr.

Andrew, do let I help. I be sure I could make tea."



"it be not necessary, thank you," Andrew answer. "I have a lodger who

have bring his own servant. as it happen he be just prepare some

tea for we. if you will come round to the other side, where it be a

little more sheltered, I will bring you some chair."



they move across the grass-grow little stretch of sand. the Princess

peer curiously at Berners.



"your face," she remark, "seem quite familiar to I."



Berners do not for the moment answer she. he be look towards

Forrest, who be busy light a cigarette.



"I be afraid, madam," he say, after a slight pause, "that I cannot

claim the honour of having meet you."



the Princess be not altogether satisfied. Jeanne have go on with

Andrew, and she follow slowly walk with berner.



"I have such a good memory for face," she remark, "and I be very

seldom mistaken."



"I be afraid," berner say, "that this must be one of those rare

occasion. if you will allow I I will go and help Andrew bring out

some seat."



he disappear into the cottage, and come out again almost directly

with a couple of chair. this time he meet Forrest's direct gaze, and

the two man stand for a moment or two look at one another. Forrest

turn uneasily away.



"who the devil be that chap?" he whisper to Cecil. "I'll swear I've

see he somewhere."



"very likely," Cecil answer wearily, throw himself down on the

turf. "I've no memory for face."



Jeanne have step into the cottage, and give a little cry of delight

as she find herself in a small sitting-room, the wall of which be

line with book and gun and fishing-tackle.



"what a delightful room, Mr. Andrew!" she exclaim. "Why--"



she pause and look up at he, a little mystified.



"do the fisherman in Norfolk read Shakespeare and Keats?" she ask.

"and french book, too, De Maupassant and De Musset?"



"they be my lodger's," Andrew answer. "this be his room. I sit in

the kitchen when I be at home."



his dialect be more marked than ever, and his answer have be

deliver without any hesitation. nevertheless, Jeanne be still a

little puzzle.



"may I come into the kitchen, please?" she ask.



"certainly," he answer. "you will find Mr. Berners' servant there

get tea ready."



Jeanne peep in, and look back at Andrew, who be stand behind

she.



"what a lovely stone floor!" she exclaim. "and your copper kettle,

too, be delightful! do you mean that when you have not a lodger here,

you cook and do everything for yourself?"



"there be time," he answer composedly, "when I have a little

assistance. it depend upon whether the fishing season have be good."



Berners come in, and throw himself into an easychair in the

sitting-room.



"make what use you like of my man, Andrew," he say. "I will have a cup

of tea in here afterwards."



"I'm very much oblige, sir," Andrew answer.



the Princess call out to he, and he step back once more to where

they be all sit.



"it be a shame," she say, "that we drive your lodger away from his

seat. will you not ask he to take tea with we?"



"I be afraid," Andrew answer, "that he be not a very sociable person.

he have come down here because he want a complete rest, and he do not

speak to any one unless he be oblige. he have just ask I to have his

tea send into his room."



"where do he come from, this strange man?" the Princess ask. "it be

all the time in my mind that I have meet he somewhere. I be sure that

he be one of we."



"I believe that he live in London," Andrew answer, "and his name be

Berners, Mr. Richard Berners."



"I do not seem to remember the name," the Princess remark, "but the

man's face worry I. what a delightful look tea-tray! Mr. Andrew,

you must really sit down with we. we ought to apologize for take you

by storm like this, and I have not thank you yet for be so kind to

my daughter." Andrew step back toward the cottage with a firm

refusal upon his lip, but Jeanne's hand suddenly rest upon the arm

of his coarse blue jersey.



"if you please, Mr. Andrew," she beg, "I want you to sit by I and

tell I how you come to live in so strange a place. do you really not

mind the solitude?"



Andrew look down at she for a moment without answer. for the first

time, perhaps, he realize the charm of her pale expressive face with

its rapid change, and the soft insistent fire of her beautiful eye.

he hesitate for a moment and then remain where he be, lean

against the flag-staff.



"it be very good of you, miss," he say. "as to why I come to live

here, I do so simply because the house belong to I. it be my

father's and his father's. we folk who live in the country make few

change."



she look at he curiously. the man whom she have know, even those of

the class to whom he might be suppose to belong, be all in a way

different. this man talk only when he be oblige. all the time she

feel in he the attraction of the unknown. he answer her question

and remark in word, the rest remain unspoken. she look at he

contemplatively as he stand by her side with a tea-cup in his hand,

lean still a little against the flag-staff. notwithstanding his

rough clothe and heavy fisherman's boot, there be nothing about his

attitude or his speech, save in its dialect, to denote the fact that he

be of a different order from that in which she have be bring up.

she feel an immense curiosity concern he, and she feel, too, that

it would probably never be gratify. Most man be her slave from the

moment she smile upon they. this one she fancy seem a little bored

by her presence. he do not even seem to be think about she. he be

watch steadily and with somewhat bent eyebrow Cecil de la Borne and

Forrest. something strike she as she look from one to the other.



"I read once," she remark, "that people who live in a very small

village for generation after generation grow to look like one another.

in a certain way I cannot conceive two man more unlike, and yet at that

moment there be something in your face which remind I of Mr. De la

Borne."



he look down at she with a quick frown. decidedly he be annoy.



"you be certainly the first," he say drily, "who have ever discover

the likeness, if there be any."



"it do not amount to a likeness," she answer, "and you need not

look so angry. Mr. De la Borne be consider very good-look. dear

I, what a nuisance! do you see? we be go!"



Andrew de la Borne take the cup from her hand and help to prepare the

boat. with a faint smile upon his lip he hear a little colloquy

between Cecil and the Princess which amuse he. the Princess, as he

prepare to hand she into the boat, show herself at any rate

possess of the instinct of her order. she hold out her hand and

smile sweetly upon Andrew.



"we be so much oblige to you for your delightful tea, Mr. Andrew,"

she say. "I hope that next time my daughter go wander about in

dangerous place you may be there to look after she."



Andrew look swiftly away towards Jeanne. somehow or other the

Princess' word seem to come to he at that moment charge with some

secondary meaning. he feel instinctively that notwithstanding she

thoroughly advanced air, Jeanne be little more than a child as

compare with these people. she meet his eye with one of her most

delightful smile.



"some day, I hope," she say, "that you will take I out in the punt

again. I can assure you that I quite enjoy be rescue."



the little party sail away, Cecil with an obvious air of relief.

Andrew turn slowly round, and meet his friend issue from the door of

the cottage.



"Andrew," he say, "no wonder you do not care about be host to such

a crowd!"



there be meaning in his tone, and Andrew look at he thoughtfully.



"do you know--anything definite?" he ask.



Berners nod.



"about one of they," he say, "I certainly do. I wonder what on earth

have become of Ronald. he be with they yesterday."



"have enough, perhaps," Andrew suggest.



berner shake his head.



"I be afraid not," he answer slowly. "I wish I could think that he

have so much sense."









CHAPTER XIII





Cecil come into the room abruptly, and close the door behind he. he

be breathe quickly as though he have be run. his lip be a

little part, and in his eye shine an unmistakable expression of

fear. Forrest and the Princess both look towards he apprehensively.



"what be it, Cecil?" the latter ask quickly. "you be a fool to go

about the house look like that."



Cecil come far into the room and throw himself into a chair.



"it be that fellow upon the island," he say. "you remember we all say

that his face be familiar. I have see he again, and I have

remember."



"remember what?" the Princess ask.



"where it be that I see he last," Cecil answer. "it be in Pall

Mall, and he be walk with--with Engleton. it be before I know he,

but I know who he be. he must be a friend of Engleton's. what do you

suppose that he be do here?"



Cecil be shake like a leaf. the Princess look towards he

contemptuously.



"come," she say, "there be no need for you to behave like a terrified

child. even if you have see he once with Lord Ronald, what on earth

be there in that to be terrify about? Lord Ronald have many friend

and acquaintance everywhere. this one be surely harmless enough. he

behave quite naturally on the island, remember."



Cecil shake his head.



"I do not understand," he say. "I do not understand what he can be

do in this part of the world, unless he have some object. I see he

just now stand behind a tree at the entrance to the drive, watch

I drive golf ball out on to the marsh. I be almost certain that he

be about the place last night. I see some one who look very much

like he pass along the cliff just about dinner-time."



"you be frighten at shadow," the Princess declare contemptuously.

"if he be one of Lord Ronald's friend, and he have come here to look

for he, he wouldn't play about watch you from a distance. besides,

there have be no time yet. Lord Ronald only--leave here yesterday

morning."



"what be he do, then, watch this house?" Cecil ask. "that be

what I do not like."



the Princess raise her eyebrow contemptuously.



"my dear Cecil," she say, "it be just a coincidence, and not a very

remarkable one at that. Lord Ronald have the name, you know, of have

acquaintance in every quarter of the world."



Cecil draw a little breath.



"it may be all right," he say, "but I be not use to this sort of

thing, and it give I the creep."



"of course it be all right," the Princess say composedly. "one would

think that we be a pack of child, to take any notice of such

trifle. it be too early, my dear Cecil, by many a day, to look for

trouble yet. Lord Ronald always wander about pretty much as he choose.

it will be month before--"



"don't go on," cecil interrupt. "I suppose I be a fool, but all the

time I be fancy thing."



Forrest move away with a little laugh, and the Princess rise and

thrust her arm through Cecil's.



"silly boy!" she say. "you have nothing to be frighten about, I can

assure you."



"I be not frightened," Cecil answer. "I don't think that I be ever a

coward. all the same, there be some thing about this fellow which I

don't quite understand."



the Princess laugh as she sweep from the room.



"don't be foolish, Cecil," she say. "remember that we be all here,

and that nothing can go wrong unless we lose our nerve."



Forrest find the Princess alone a little later in the evening, wait

in the hall for the dinner-gong. he draw she into a corner, under

pretext of show her one of the old engraving, dark with age, which

hang upon the wall.



"Ena," he say, "I suppose that you trust Cecil de la Borne? you

haven't any fear about he, eh?"



the Princess shrug her shoulder.



"no!" she answer. "he be a coward at heart, but he have enough vanity,

I believe, to keep he from do anything foolish. all the same, I

think it be wise not to leave he alone here."



"he would not stay," Forrest remark. "he tell I so only this

morning."



"you suggest leave?" the Princess ask.



Forrest nod.



"I couldn't help it," he say, a little sullenly. "there be something

about these great empty room, and the silence of the place, that's

get on my nerve. I start every time that great front-door bell

clang, or I hear an unfamiliar footstep in the hall. God! what fool

we have be," he add, with a sudden bitter strength. "I couldn't

have believe that I could ever have do anything so clumsy. fancy

give ourselves away to a fool like Engleton, a self-opinionate young

cub scarcely out of his cradle."



he feel his damp forehead. the Princess be watch he curiously.



"don't be a fool, Nigel," she say. "we underrate Engleton, that be

all. if ever a man look an idiot, he do, and you must remember that

we be in a corner. yet," she add, lean a little forward in her

chair and gaze with hard, set face into the fire, "it be foolish of

I. with Jeanne to play with, I ought to have have no such difficulty.

I never count upon the tradespeople be so unreasonable. if they

have let I finish the season it would have be all right."



Forrest walk restlessly across the room, and stand for a moment

look out of the window. outside, the wind have suddenly change. the

sunshine have depart, and a grey fog be blow in from the sea. he

turn away with a shiver.



"what a cursed place this be!" he mutter. "I've half a mind even now

to turn my back upon it and to run."



the Princess watch his pale face scornfully.



"I think, Nigel," she say, "that you be a more reasonable person.

remember that if we show the white feather now, it be the end of

everything--the Colonies, if you like, or a little cheap watering-place

at the good. as for I, I might have a well chance of brazen it

out, but remember that I could never afford to be see in the company

of a suspect person."



"it be the fear of lose you," he mutter, "which make I so rash."



the Princess laugh very softly.



"my dear friend," she say, "I do not believe you. I may seem to you

sometimes very foolish, but at least I understand this. life with you

be self, self, self, and nothing more. you have scarcely a generous

instinct, scarcely a spark of real affection leave in you."



"and yet--" he begin quietly.



"and yet," she whisper, repulse he with a little gesture, but with

a suddenly altered look in her face, "and yet we woman be fool!"



she turn round to meet her host, who be cross the hall, and

almost simultaneously the dinner gong ring out. their party be perhaps

a little more cheerful than it have be on any of the last few

evening. Forrest drink more wine than usual, and exert himself to

entertain. cecil follow his example, and the Princess, who sit by his

side, look often into his face, and whisper now and then in his

ear. Jeanne be the only one who be a little distrait. she leave the

table early, as usual, and slip out into the garden. the Princess,

contrary to her custom, rise from the table and follow she. a sudden

change of wind have blow the fog away, and the night be clear. the

wind, however, have gather force, and the Princess hold down she

elaborately coiffure hair and cry out in dismay.



"my dear Jeanne," she exclaim, "but it be barbarous to wander about

outside a night like this!"



Jeanne laugh. her own more simply arrange hair be blow all over

her face.



"I love it," she explain. "you don't want I indoor. I be go to

walk down the grove and look at the sea."



"come back into the hall one moment," the Princess say. "I want to

speak to you."



Jeanne turn unwillingly round, and her step-mother draw she into the

shelter of the open door.



"Jeanne," she say, "you seem to meet your friend the fisherman very

often. if you should see anything of he to-morrow, I wish you would

inquire particularly as to his lodger. you know whom I mean, the man

who be on the island with he yesterday afternoon."



Jeanne look at her stepmother curiously.



"what be I to ask about he?" she demand.



"where he come from, and what he be do here," the Princess say.

"find out if you can if Berners be really his name. I have a curious

idea about he, and Cecil fancy that he have see he before."



Jeanne look for a minute interested.



"you be not usually so curious about people," she remark.



the Princess lower her voice a little.



"Jeanne," she say, "I will tell you something. Lord Ronald, when he

leave here, be very angry with we all. there be a quarrel, and he

behave very absurdly. cecil fancy that this man Berners be a friend

of Lord Ronald's. we want to know if it be so."



Jeanne raise her head and look her stepmother steadily in the face.



"this be all very mysterious," she say. "I do not understand it at

all. we seem to be almost in hiding here, see no one and go

nowhere. and I notice that Major Forrest, whenever he walk even in the

garden, be always look around as though he be afraid of something.

what do you quarrel with Lord Ronald about?"



"it be no concern of your," the Princess answer, a little sharply.

"Major Forrest have have a somewhat eventful career, and he have make

enemy. it be chiefly his quarrel with Lord Ronald, and it be over a

somewhat serious matter. he have an idea that this man Berners be

connect with it in some way or other. do find out if you can, there's

a dear child."



"I do not suppose," Jeanne say, "that Mr. Andrew would know anything.

however, when I see he I will ask he."



the Princess turn away from the open door, shiver.



"you be not really go out?" she say.



"certainly I be," Jeanne answer. "I suppose you three will play

card, and it do not interest I to watch you. there be nothing which

interest I here at all except the garden and the sea. I be go

down to the beach, and then I shall sit there behind the hollyhock

until it be bedtime."



the Princess look at her curiously.



"you're a queer child," she say, turn away.



"it be not strange, that," Jeanne answer, with a little curl of the

lip.



the Princess go back to the library. Coffee and liqueur have already

be serve, and the card-table be set out, although none of the three

have the slight inclination to play. Jeanne walk along the beach

and then come back to her favourite seat, shelter by the little grove

of stunt tree and the tall hollyhock which border the garden. her

eye be fix upon the darken sea, whiten here and there by the

long straight line of breaker. the marsh on her right hand be hang

with grey mist, float about like weird phantom, and here and there

between they shine the distant light of the village. she half close

her eye. the soft fall of the wave upon the sand below, and the

murmur of the wind through the bush and scanty tree be like a

lullaby. she sit there she scarcely know how long. she wake up with a

start, conscious that two man be stand talk together within a

few yard of she in the rough lane that lead down to the sea.









CHAPTER XIV





the Princess be attempt a new and very complicated form of

patience. Forrest be watch she. their host be make an attempt to

read the newspaper.



"in five minute," the Princess declare, "I shall have achieve the

impossible. this time I be quite sure that I be go to do it."



a breathless silence follow her announcement. the Princess, look

up in surprise, find that the eye of her two companion be fix

not upon she but upon the door. she lay down her card and turn she

head. it be Jeanne who stand there, her hair toss and blow by the

wind, her face ashen white.



"what be the matter, child?" the Princess demand.



Jeanne come a little way into the room.



"there be two man," she falter, "talk in the shrubbery close to

where I be sit behind the hollyhock. I could not understand all

that they say, but they be come here. they be speak of Lord

Ronald."



"go on," Forrest mutter, lean forward with dilate eye.



"they speak as though something might have happen to he here," the

girl whisper. "oh! it be too horrible, this! what do you think that

they mean?"



she look at the three people who confront she. there be nothing

reassure in the face of the two man. the Princess lean back in her

chair and laugh.



"my dear child," she say, "you have be asleep and dream these

foolish thing; or if not, these yokel to whom you have be listen

be mad. what harm do you suppose could come to Lord Ronald here?"



"I do not know," Jeanne say, speak in a low tone, and with the fear

still in her dark eye.



"I tell you," the Princess continue, "that there be some sort of a

quarrel. what of it? Lord Ronald simply choose to go away. do you

suppose that there be any one here who would think of try to hinder

he? look at we three and ask yourself if it be likely. look at Major

Forrest here, for instance, who never lose his temper, and whose whole

life be a series of calculation. or our host. look at he," the

Princess continue, with a little wave of her hand. "he may have

secret that we know nothing of, but if he be a desperate criminal, I

must say that he have keep the knowledge very well to himself. as for

I, you know very well that I quarrel with no one. Le jeu ne vaut pas

la peine."



Jeanne draw a little breath. her face be less tragic. there be a

moment's silence. then Cecil de la Borne move toward the fireplace. he

be pale, but his manner be more composed. the Princess' speech, draw

out, and very slowly speak, of deliberate intent, have achieve its

purpose. the first terror have pass away from all of they.



"I will ring the bell," Cecil say, "and find out who these trespasser

be, wander about my ground at this hour of the night. or shall we

all go out and look for they ourselves?"



"as you will," Forrest answer. "personally, I should think that Miss

Jeanne have overhear some gossip amongst the servant, and

misunderstood it. however, this sort of thing be just as well put a

stop to."



a sudden peal ring through the house. the front-door bell, a huge

unwieldy affair, seldom use, because, save in the depth of winter,

the door stand open, suddenly send a deep resonant summon echo

through the house. the bareness and height of the hall, and the fact

that the room in which they be be quite close to the front door

itself, perhaps account for the unusual volume of sound which seem

create by that one peal. it be more like an alarm bell, ring out

into the silent night, than any ordinary summon. come in the midst

of those tense few second, it have an effect upon the people who hear

it which be almost indescribable. Cecil de la Borne be pale with the

nervousness of the coward, but Forrest's terror be a real and actual

thing, stamp in his white face, gleam in his sunken eye, as he

stand behind the card-table with his head a little thrust forward

toward the door, as though listen for what might come next. the

Princess, if she be in any way discompose, do not show it. she sit

erect in her chair, her head slightly throw back, her eyebrow a

little contract. it be as though she be ask who have dare to

break in so rudely upon her pastime. Jeanne have sink back into the

window, and be sit there, her hand clasp together.



Cecil de la Borne glance at the clock.



"it be nearly eleven o'clock," he say. "the servant will have go to

bed. I must go and see who that be."



no one attempt to stop he. they hear his footstep go echo down

the silent hall. they hear the harsh clanking of the chain as he draw

it back, and the opening of the heavy door. they all look at one

another in tense expectation. they hear Cecil's challenge, and they

hear muffle voice outside. then there come the closing of the door,

and the sound of heavy footstep in the hall. Forrest grasp the table

with both hand, and his face be bloodless. the Princess lean

towards he.



"for God's sake, Nigel," she whisper in his ear, "pull yourself

together! one look into your face be enough to give the whole show

away. even Jeanne there be watch you."



the man make an effort. even as the footstep draw near he dash some

brandy into a tumbler and drink it off. Cecil de la Borne enter,

follow by the man who have be Andrew's guest and another, a small

dark person with glass, and a professional air. cecil, who have be a

little in front, turn round to usher they in.



"I cannot keep you out of my house, gentleman, I suppose," he say,

"although I consider that your intrusion at such an hour be entirely

unwarrantable. I regret that I have no other room in which I can

receive you. what you have to say to I, you can say here before my

friend. if I remember rightly," he add, "your name be Berners, and

you be lodge in this neighbourhood."



the man who have call himself berner bow to the Princess and Jeanne

before reply. his manner be grave, but not in any way threaten.

his companion stand behind he and remain silent.



"I have call myself Berners," he say, "because it be more convenient

at time to do so. I be Richard Berners, Duke of Westerham. a recent

guest of your--Lord Ronald--be my young brother."



the silence which reign in the room might almost have be feel. the

Duke, look from one to the other, grow graver.



"I suppose," he continue, "I ought to apologize for come here so

late at night, but my solicitor have only just arrive from London, and

report to I the result of some inquiry he have be make. Ronald

be my favourite brother, although I have not see much of he lately. I

trust, therefore," he continue, still speak to Cecil de la Borne,

"that you will pardon my intrusion when I explain that from the moment

of quit your house my brother seem to have completely disappear.

I have come to ask you if you can give I any information as to the

circumstance of his leaving, and whether he tell you his destination."



Cecil de la Borne be white to the lip, but he be on the point of

answer when the Princess intervene. she lean forward toward the

newcomer, and her face express the most genuine concern.



"my dear Duke," she say, "this be very extraordinary news that you

bring. Lord Ronald leave here for London. do you mean to say that he have

never arrive there?"



the Duke turn towards his companion.



"my solicitor here, Mr. Hensellman," he say, "have make the most

careful inquiry, and have even go so far as to employ detective. my

brother have certainly not return to London. we have also wire to

every country house where a visit from he would have be a

probability, without result. under those circumstance, and other

which I need not perhaps enlarge upon, I must confess to feel some

anxiety as to what have become of he."



"naturally," the Princess answer at once. "and yet," she continue,

"it be only a few day ago since he leave here. your brother, Duke, who

seem to I a most delightful young man, be also distinctly peculiar,

and I do not think that the fact of your not be able to hear of he

at his accustomed haunt for two or three day be in any way a matter

which need cause you any anxiety."



the Duke bow.



"Madam," he say, "I regret have to differ from you. I beg that you

will not permit anything which I say to reflect upon yourself or upon

Mr. De la Borne, whose honour, I be sure, be above question. but you

have amongst you a person whom I be assure be a very bad companion

indeed for boy of my brother's age. I refer to you, sir," he add,

address Forrest.



Forrest bow ironically.



"I be exceedingly oblige to you, sir," he say, "for your amiable

opinion, although why you should go out of your way to volunteer it

here, I cannot imagine."



"I do so, sir," the Duke answer, "because during the last two or

three day cheque for a considerable amount have be honour at my

brother's bank, bear your endorsement. I may add, sir, that I come

down here to see my brother. I wish to explain to he that you be

not a person with whom it be advisable for he to play card."



Forrest take a quick step forward.



"Sir," he exclaim, "you be a liar!"



the Duke bow.



"I do not quote my own opinion," he say. "I speak from the result of

the most careful investigation. your reputation you cannot deny. even

at your own club man shrug their shoulder when your name be

mention. I will give you the benefit of any doubt you wish. I will

simply say that you be a person who be suspect in any assembly where

gentleman meet together, and that be so, as my brother have

disappear from this house after several night spend in playing card

with you, I be here to learn from you, and from you, sir," he add,

turn to Cecil de la Borne, "some further information as to the

manner of my brother's departure, or to remain here until I have

acquire that information for myself."



the Princess rise to her foot and lay her hand upon Forrest's

shoulder. the vein be stand out upon his forehead, and his face

be black with anger. he seem to be in the act of spring upon the

man who make these charge against he.



"Nigel," she say, "please let I talk to the Duke. remember that,

after all, from his own point of view, what he be say be not so

outrageous as it seem to we. cecil, please don't interfere," she add

turn towards he. "Duke," she continue, speak firmly, and with

much of the amiability go from her tone, "you be play the modern

Don Quixote to an extent which be unpardonable, even take into

account your anxiety concern your brother. Lord Ronald be a guest

here of Mr. De la Borne's, and to the good of my knowledge he lose

little more than he win all the time he be here. in any case, on Major

Forrest's behalf, and as an old friend, I deny that there be any

question whatever as to the fairness of any game that be play.

your brother receive a telegram, and ask to be allow the use of

the car to take he to Lynn Station early on the following morning. he

promise to return within a week."



"you have hear from he since he leave?" the Duke ask quickly.



"we have not," the Princess answer. "only yesterday morning I

remark that it be slightly discourteous. your brother leave here on

excellent term with we all. you can interview, if you will, any member

of the household. you can make your inquiry at the station from which

he depart. your appearance here at such an untimely hour, and your

barely veil accusation, remind I of the fable of the bull in the

china shop. if you think that we have lock your brother up here, pray

search the house. if you think," she add, with curl lip, "that we

have murder he, pray bring down an army of detective, invest the

place, and pursue your investigation in whatever direction you like.

but before you leave, I should advise you, if you wish to preserve your

reputation as a person of breeding, to apologize to Mr. De la Borne for

your extraordinary behaviour here to-night, and the extraordinary

thing at which you have hint."



the Duke smile pleasantly.



"Madam," he say, "I come here to-night not know that you be

amongst the difficulty which I should have to deal with. I wish to

speak to Mr. De la Borne. you will permit I?"



the Princess shrug her shoulder and turn away.



"I have venture to speak for both of they," she remark, "for the

sake of peace, because I be a woman and can keep my temper, and they

be man who might have resent your impertinence."



the Duke remain as though he have not hear her speech. he lay his

hand upon Cecil's shoulder.



"De la Borne," he say, "you and I be scarcely stranger, although we

have never meet. there have be friendship in our family for many

year. don't be afraid to speak out if anything have go a little wrong

here and you be ashamed of it. I want to be your friend, as you know

very well. tell I, now. cann't you help I to find Ronald. haven't you

any idea where he be?"



"none at all," Cecil answer.



"tell I this, then," the Duke say, his clear brown eye fix

steadily upon Cecil's miserable white face. "be there any unusual

circumstance at all connect with his leave here?"



"none whatever," Cecil answer, with an uneasy little laugh, "except

that I have to get up to see he off, and it be a beastly cold morning."



the lawyer, who have be stand silent all this time, draw the Duke

for a moment on one side.



"I should recommend, sir," he whisper, "that we go away. if they

know anything they do not mean to tell, and the less we let they know

as to whether we be satisfied or not, the well."



the Duke nod, and turn once more to Cecil.



"I be force to accept your word, Mr. De la Borne," he say, "and when

my brother confirm your story I shall make a special visit here to

offer you my apology. Madam," he add, bow to the Princess, "I

regret to have disturb your interesting occupation."



Forrest he completely ignore, turn his back upon he almost

immediately. cecil go out with they into the hall. in a moment the

great front door be open and close. cecil come back into the room,

and the perspiration stand out in great bead upon his forehead. now

that the Duke have depart, something seem to have fall from their

face. they look at one another as the ghost of their real self

might have look. Forrest stumble toward the sideboard. Cecil be

already there.



"the brandy!" he mutter. "quick!"









CHAPTER XV





Bareheaded, Jeanne walk upon the yellow sand close to the softly

break wave. Inland stretch the marsh, with their patch of

vivid green, their cloud of faintly blue wild lavender, their sinuous

creek steal into the bosom of the land. she climb on to a grassy

knoll, warm with the sun's heat, and throw herself down upon the turf.

she turn she back upon the Hall and look steadily seaward, across

the waste of sand and pasture-land to where sky and sea meet. here at

least be peace. she draw a long breath of relief, cast aside the book

which she have never dream of reading, and lie full length in the

grass, with her eye upturned to where a lark be singe his way down

from the blue sky.



Andrew come before long, speed his way out of the village harbour in

his little catboat. she watch he cross the sandy bar of the inlet,

and run his boat presently upon the beach below where she sit. then she

shake out her skirt and make room for he by her side.



"really, Mr. Andrew," she say, rest her chin upon her hand, and

look up at he with her full dark eye, "you be become almost

gallant. until now, when I have be weary, and have wish to talk to

you, I have have almost to come and fetch you. to-day it be you who come

to I. that be a good sign."



"it be true," he admit. "I have keep my telescope fix upon the

sand here for more than an hour. I want to see you."



"you have something to tell I about last night?" she ask gravely.



"no!" he answer, "I do not come here to talk about that."



"do you know," she ask, "who your lodger really be?"



"yes," he say, "I guess! I will be frank with you, Miss Jeanne, if

you will allow I. I do not like your stepmother and I do not like

Major Forrest, but I think that the Duke be go altogether too far

when he suspect they of have anything to do with the disappearance

of his brother."



she draw a little sigh of relief.



"oh! I be glad to hear you say that," she declare. "it be all so

horrible. I could not sleep last night for think about it."



"Lord Ronald will probably turn up in a day or two," Andrew say

gravely. "we will not talk any more about he."



she settle herself a little more comfortably, and smooth out her

skirt. then she look up at he with faintly part lip.



"what shall we talk about, Mr. Andrew?" she say softly.



"about ourselves," he answer, "or rather about you. it seem to I

that we both stand a little outside the game of life, as your friend

up there understand it."



he wave his large brown hand in the direction of the Hall.



"you be a child, fresh from boarding-school, too young to understand,

too young to know where to look for your friend, or discriminate

against your enemy. I be a rough sort of fellow, also, outside their

life, from necessity, from every reason which the brain of man could

evolve. sometimes we outsider see more than be intend. be the

Princess of Strurm really your stepmother?"



"of course she be," Jeanne answer. "she be married to my father when

I be quite a little girl, and she have visit I at the convent where

I be at school, all my life, and when I leave last year it be she who

come for I. why do you ask so strange a question?"



"because," he say, "I should consider she about the bad possible

guardian that a child like you could have. tell I, what be it that

go on all day up at the Hall there--or rather what be it that do go

on before Engleton go away?--eating and drinking, card, and God

know what sort of foolishness! nothing else, nothing worth do, not

a thing say worth listen to! it's a rotten life for a child like

you. they tell I you're an heiress. be you?"



she smooth her crumpled skirt, and look steadily at the tip of her

brown shoe.



"one of the great in Europe," she answer. "no one know how rich I

be. you see all the money be leave to I when I be six year old, and

it be so strictly tie up that no one have have power to touch a single

penny until I be of age. that be why it have go on increase and

increase."



"and when be you of age?" he ask.



"next year," she answer.



"by that time, I imagine," Andrew continue, "your stepmother will have

sell you to some break-down hanger-on of her. haven't you any other

relation, Miss Jeanne?"



she laugh softly.



"you be a ridiculous person," she say. "I be very fond of my

stepmother. I think that she be a very clever woman."



"Bah!" he exclaim in disgust. "a clever woman she may be, but a good

woman, no! I be sure of that. you may judge a person by the company

they keep. neither she or this man Forrest be fit associate for a

child of your age."



she laugh softly.



"they don't do I any harm," she say. "Mr. De la Borne and Lord Ronald

have ask I to marry they, of course, but then every young man do

that when he know who I be. my stepmother have promise I at least

that I shall not be bother by any of they just yet. I be go to be

present next season, we be go to have a house in town, and I be

go to choose a husband of my own."



it be Andrew now who look long and steadily out seaward. she

watch he covertly from under her heavily lidde eye.



"Mr. Andrew," she say softly, "I wish very much--"



then she stop short, and he look at she a little abruptly.



"what be it that you wish?" he ask.



"I wish that you do not wear such strange clothe and that you do not

talk the dialect of these fisherman, and that you have more money. then

you too might come and see I, might you not, when we have that house

in London?"



he laugh boisterously.



"I fancy I see myself in London, pay call," he declare. "give I

my catboat and fishing line. I'd rather sail down the home creek, with

a northeast gale in my tooth, than walk down Piccadilly in patent

boot."



she sigh.



"I be afraid," she admit, "that as a town acquaintance you be

hopeless."



"I be afraid so," he answer, look steadily seaward. "we country

people have strong prejudice, you see. it seem to we that all the sin

and all the unhappiness and all the decadence and all the thing that

mar the beauty of the world, come from the city and from life in the

city. no wonder that we want to keep away. it ben't that we think

ourselves well than the other folk. it be simply that we have

realize pleasure great than we could find in paved street and

under smoke-stain sky. we know what it be to smell the salt wind,

to hear it whistle in the cord and the sail of our boat, to feel

the warmth of the sun, to listen to the song of the bird, to watch the

colouring of God's land here. I suppose we have the thing in our

blood; we cann't leave it. we hear the call of the other thing

sometimes, but as soon as we obey we be restless and unhappy. it be

only an affair of time, and generally a very short time. one cannot

fight against nature."



"no!" she answer softly. "one cannot fight against nature. but there

be child of the city, child of the life artificial as well as

child of nature. look at I!"



he turn toward she quickly.



"look at I!" she command, and he obey.



he see her pale skin, which the touch of the sun seem to have no

power to burn or coarsen. the clear, wonderful eye, the delicate

eyebrow, the masse of dark hair, the scarlet lip. he see her white

throat swell underneath her muslin blouse. the daintiness of her

gown, airy and simple, yet fresh from a Paris workshop. the stocking

and shoe, exquisite, but strangely out of place with their high heel

bury in the sand.



"how do I know," she demand, "that I be not one of the child of

the city, that I be not fashion and make for the gas-light life, to

eat unreal food at unreal hour, and feed my brain upon the unreal

epigram of the man whom you would call decadent. two day here, a

week--very well. in a month I might be bore. who shall guarantee I

against it?"



"no one," he answer. "and yet there be something in your blood which

call for the truth, which hate the sham, which know real beauty.

why don't you try and cultivate it? in your heart you know where the

true thing lie. consider! every one with great wealth can make or mar

many life. you enter the world almost as a divinity. your wealth be

reckon as a quality. what you do will be right. what you condemn will

be wrong. it be a very important thing for other as well as yourself,

that you should see a clear way through life."



a moment's intense dejection seize upon she. the tear stand in her

eye as she look away from he.



"who be there to show it I?" she ask. "who be there to help I find

it?"



"not those friend whom you have leave to play bridge in a room with

draw curtain at this hour of the day," he answer. "not your

stepmother, or any of her sort. try and realize this. even the weak

of we be not dependent upon other for support. there be only one sure

guide. trust yourself. be faithful to the good part of yourself. you

know what be good and what be ugly. don't be coerce, don't be lead into

the morass."



she look at he and laugh gaily. her mood have change once more

with chameleon-like swiftness.



"it be all very well for you," she declare. "you be six foot four,

and you look as though you could hew your way through life with a

cudgel. one could fancy you a Don Quixote amongst the sham, knock

they over like ninepin, and move aside neither to the right nor to

the left. but what be a poor weak girl to do? she want some one, Mr.

Andrew, to wield the cudgel for she."



it be several second before he turn his head. then he find that,

although her lip be laugh, her eye be long and serious. she

spring suddenly to her foot and lean towards he.



"this be the most delightful nonsense," she whisper. "please!"



she be in his arm for a moment, her lip have clung to his. then she

be away, fly along the sand at a pace which seem to he

miraculous, swinge her hat in her hand, and hum the madden

refrain of some french song, which it seem to he be always upon her

lip, and which have haunt he for day. he hesitate, uncertain

whether to follow, ashamed of himself, ashamed of the passion which be

burn in his blood. and while he hesitate she pass out of sight,

turn only once to wave her hand as she cross the line of

grass-grow hillock which shut he out from her view.









CHAPTER XVI





"to-morrow," the Princess say softly, "we shall have be here a

fortnight."



Cecil de la Borne come and sit by her side upon the sofa.



"I be afraid," he say, "that leave out everything else, you have

be terribly bored."



"I have be nothing of the sort," she answer. "of course, the last

week have be a strain, but we be not go to talk any more about

that. you prepare we for semi-barbarism, and instead you have make

perfect sybarite of we. I can assure you that though in one way to go

will be a release, in another I shall be very sorry."



"and I," he say, in a low tone, "shall always be sorry."



he let his hand fall upon her, and look into her eye. the Princess

stifle a yawn. this country style of love-making be a thing which she

have outgrow many year ago.



"you will find other distraction very soon," she say, "and besides,

the world be a small place. we shall see something of you, I suppose,

always. by the by, you have not be particularly attentive to my

stepdaughter during the last few day, have you?"



"she give I very little chance," he answer, in a slightly aggrieved

tone.



"she be very young," the Princess say, "too young, I suppose, to take

thing seriously. I do not think that she will marry very early."



Cecil bent over his companion till his head almost touch her.



"dear lady," he say, "I be afraid that I be not very interested in

your stepdaughter while you be here."



"Absurd!" she murmur. "I be nearly twice your age."



"if you be," he answer, "so much the well, but you be not. do

you know, I think that you have be rather unkind to I. I have

scarcely see you alone since you have be here."



she laugh softly, and take up her little dog into her arm as though

to use he for a shield.



"my dear Cecil," she say earnestly, "please don't make love to I. I

like you so much, and I should hate to feel that you be bore I.

every man with whom I be alone for ten minute think it his duty to

say foolish thing to I, and I can assure you that I be past it all. a

few year ago it be different. to-day there be only three thing in

the world I care for--my little spaniel here, bridge, and money."



his face darken a little.



"you do not talk like this in London," he remind she.



"perhaps not," she admit. "perhaps even now it be only a mood with

I. I can only speak as I feel for the moment. there be time when I

feel differently, but not now."



"perhaps," he say jealously, "there be also other people with whom

you feel differently."



"perhaps," she admit calmly.



"when I come into the room the other day," he say, "Forrest be

hold your hand."



"Major Forrest," she say, "have be very much upset. he need a

little consolation. he have some other engagement, and he ought to have

leave before now, but, as you know, we be all prisoner. I wonder how

long it will last."



"I cannot tell," Cecil answer gloomily. "Forrest know more about it

than I do. what do he say to you?"



"he think," the Princess say slowly, "that we may be able to leave in

a few day now."



"then while you do stay," cecil beg, "be a little kind to I."



she withdraw her hand from her dog and pat his for a moment.



"you foolish boy," she say. "of course I will be a little kind to

you, if you like, but I warn you that I shall only be a disappointment.

boy of your age always expect so much, and I have so little to give."



"why do you say that?" he ask.



she shrug her shoulder.



"because it be the truth," she answer. "you must not expect anything

more from I than the husk of thing. believe I, I be not a poseuse. I

really mean it."



"you may change your mind," he say.



"I may," she answer. "I have no conviction, and my enemy would

add, no principle. if any one could make I feel the thing which I

have forget how to feel, I myself be perfectly willing! but don't

hope too much from that. and do, there's a dear boy, go and stop my

maid. I can see she on her way down the drive there. she have some

telegram I give she, and I want to send another."



Cecil hurry out, and the Princess, move to the window, beckon to

Forrest, who be lounge in a wicker chair with a cigarette in his

mouth.



"Nigel," she say, "how much long?"



Forrest look despondently at his cigarette.



"I cannot tell," he answer. "perhaps one day, perhaps a week,

perhaps--"



"no!" the Princess interrupt, "I do not wish to hear that

eventuality."



"you know that the Duke be still about?" Forrest say gloomily. "I see

he this morning. there have be a fellow, too--a detective, of

course--enquire about the car and who be able to drive it."



"but that," the Princess interrupt, "be all in our favour. you be

see to bring it back up the drive about ten o'clock in the morning."



Forrest nod.



"don't let's talk about it," he say. "where be Jeanne? do you know?"



the Princess point toward the lawn to where Cecil and Jeanne be

just start a game of croquet. Forrest watch they for a few minute

meditatively.



"Ena," he say, drop his voice a little, "what be you go to do

with that child? I have never quite understand your plan. you promise

to talk to I about it while we be down here."



"I know," the Princess answer, "only this other affair have drive

everything out of our mind. what I should like to do," she continue,

"be to marry she before she come of age, if I can find any one willing

to pay the price."



"the price?" he repeat doubtfully.



the Princess nod.



"Supposing," she continue, "that her fortune amount to nearly four

hundred thousand pound, I think that twenty-five thousand pound would

be a very moderate sum for any one to pay for a wife with such a dowry."



"have you any one in your mind?" he ask.



the Princess nod.



"I have a friend in Paris who be make some cautious inquiry," she

answer. "I be expect to hear from she in the course of a few day."



"so far," he remark, "you have make nothing out of your guardianship

except a live allowance."



she nod.



"and a ridiculously small one," she remark. "all that I have have be

two thousand a year. I need not tell you, my dear Nigel, that that do

not go very far when it have to provide dress and servant and a home

for both of we. Jeanne be content, and never grumble, or her lawyer

might ask some very inconvenient question."



"Supposing," he ask, "that she willn't have anything to do with this

man, when you have find one who be willing to pay?"



"until she be of age," the Princess answer, "she be mine to do what I

like with, body and soul. the french law be strict than the English

in this respect, you know. there may be a little trouble, of course,

but I shall know how to manage she."



"she have like and dislike of her own," he remark, "and fairly

positive one. I believe if she have her own way, she would spend all

her time with this fisherman here."



the Princess smooth the lace upon her gown, and gaze reflectively at

the turquoise upon her white finger.



"Jeanne's father," she remark, "be bourgeois, and her mother have

little family. race tell, of course. I have never attempt to

influence she. when there be a great struggle ahead, it be as well to

let she have her own way in small thing. hush! she be come. I

suppose the croquet have be a failure."



Jeanne come across to they, swinge her mallet in her hand.



"will some one," she beg, "take our too kind host away from I? he

follow I everywhere, and I be bored. I have play croquet with he,

but he be not satisfied. if I try to read, he come and sit by my side

and talk nonsense. if I say I be go for a walk, he want to come

with I. I be tired of it."



the Princess look at her stepdaughter critically. Jeanne be dress

in white, with a great red rose stick through her waistband. she be

pale even than usual, her eye be dark and luminous, and the curve

of her scarlet lip suggest readily enough the weariness of which she

speak.



the Princess shrug her shoulder and gather up her skirt.



"do what you like, my dear," she say. "I will tell Cecil to leave you

alone. but remember that he be our host. you must really be civil to

he."



she stroll across the lawn to where Cecil be still knock the

croquet ball about. Jeanne sink into her place, and Forrest look at

she for a few moment attentively.



"you be a strange child," he say at last.



she glance towards he as though she find his speech an impertinence.

then she look away across the old-fashioned, strangely arrange

garden, with its irregular patch of many coloured flower, its

wind-sweep shrub, its flag-staff rise from the grassy knoll at the

seaward extremity. she watch the seagull, wheel in from the sea,

and follow the line of smoke of a distant steamer. she seem to find

all these thing more interesting than conversation.



"you do not like I," he remark quietly. "you have never like I."



"I have like very few of my stepmother's friend," she answer, "any

more than I like the life which I have be compel to lead since I

leave school."



"you would prefer to be back there, perhaps?" he remark, a little

sarcastically.



"I should," she answer. "it be prison of a sort, but one be at

least free to choose one's friend."



"if," he suggest, "you could make up your mind that I be a person at

any rate to be tolerate, I think that I could make thing easy for

you. your stepmother be always inclined to follow my advice, and I

could perhaps get she to take you to quieter place, where you could

lead any sort of life you like."



"thank you," she answer. "before very long I shall be my own

mistress. until then I must make the good of thing. if you wish to do

something for I you can answer a question."



"ask it, then," he beg at once. "if I can, I shall be only too glad."



"you can tell I something which since the other night," she say, "have

be worry I a good deal. you can tell I who it be that drive

Lord Ronald to the station the morning he go away. I think that he

send his chauffeur away two day ago, and that there be no one here

who could drive the car."



Forrest be momentarily take aback. he answer, however, with

scarcely any noticeable hesitation.



"I do," he answer. "I don't make much of a job of it, and the car

have be scarcely fit to use since, but I manage it somehow, or rather

we do between we. he come and knock I up about five o'clock, and

beg I to come and try."



she look at he with peculiar steadfastness. there be nothing in her

eye or her expression to suggest belief or disbelief in his word.



"but I have hear you say so often," she remark, "that you know

absolutely nothing about the mechanism of a car, and that you would not

drive one for anything in the world."



he nod.



"I be not proud of my skill," he answer, "but I do try at Homburg

once. there be nothing else to do, and I have some idea of buy a

small car for tour in the Black Forest. if you doubt my word, you

can ask any of the servant. they see I bring the car up the avenue

later in the morning."



"it be be drag up," she remind he. "the engine be not go."



he look a little startled.



"it have only just go wrong," he say. "I have bring it all the way

from Lynn."



she rise to her foot.



"thank you for answer my question," she say. "I be go for a walk

now."



he lean quite close to she.



"alone?" he ask suggestively.



she sweep away without even look at he. he shrug his shoulder

as he resume his seat.



"I be not sure," he say reflectively, as he light a cigarette, "that Ena

will find that young woman so easy to deal with as she imagine!"









CHAPTER XVII





Andrew look up from his gardening, startle by the sudden peal of

thunder. absorb in his task, he have not notice the gathering storm.

the sky be black with cloud, riven even while he look with a vivid

flash of forked lightning. the ground beneath his foot seem almost to

shake beneath that second peal of thunder. in the stillness that

follow he hear the cry of a woman in distress. he throw down his

spade and race to the other side of the garden. about twenty yard

from the shore, Jeanne, in a small boat, be row toward the island.

she be pull at the great oar with feeble stroke, and make no

headway against the current which be sweep down the tidal way.

there be no time for hesitation. Andrew throw off his coat, and wade

into the water, reach she just in time. he clamber into the boat

and take the oar from her trembling finger. he be not a moment too

soon, for the long tidal wave be rush in now before the storm. he

bend to his task, and drive the boat safely on to the beach. then he

stand up, dripping, and hand she out.



"my dear young lady," he say, a little brusquely, and forget for

the moment his Norfolk dialect, "what on earth be you about in that

little boat all by yourself?"



she be still frightened, and she look at he a little piteously.



"please don't be angry with I," she say. "I want to come here and

see you, to--to ask your advice. the boat be lie there, and it

look such a very short distance across, and directly I have start

the big wave begin to come in and I be frightened."



the storm break upon they. another peal of thunder be follow by a

downpour of rain. he catch hold of her hand.



"run as hard as you can," he say.



they reach the cottage, breathless. he usher she into his little

sit-room.



"have your friend go?" she ask.



"yes!" he answer. "he go last night."



"I be glad," she declare. "I want to see you alone. you say that he

be lodge here, do you not?"



Andrew nod.



"yes," he say, "but he only stay for a few day."



"you have an extra room here, then?" she ask.



"certainly," he answer, wonder a little at the drift of her

question.



"will you let it to I, please?" she ask. "I be look for lodging,

and I should like to stay for a little time here."



he look at she in amazement.



"my dear young lady!" he exclaim. "you be joke!"



"I be perfectly serious," she answer. "I will tell you all about it

if you like."



"but your stepmother!" he protest. "she would never come to such a

place. besides, you be Mr. De la Borne's guest."



"I do not wish to stay there any long," she say. "I do not wish to

stay with my stepmother any long. something have happen which I

cannot altogether explain to you, but which make I feel that I want

to get away from they all. I have enough money, and I be sure I should

not be much trouble. please take I, Mr. Andrew."



he suddenly realize what a child she be. her dark eye be raise

wistfully to his. her oval face be a little flushed by her recent

exertion. she wear a very short skirt, and her hair hang about her

shoulder in a tangled mass. her little foreign mannerism, half

inciting, half provocative, be forget. his heart be full of pity

for she.



"my dear child," he say, "you be not serious. you cannot possibly be

serious. your stepmother be your guardian, and she certainly would not

allow you to run away from she like this. besides, I have not even a

maid-servant. it would be absolutely impossible for you to stay here."



her eye fill with tear. she drop her arm with a weary little

gesture.



"but I should love it so much," she say. "here I could rest, and

forget all the thing which worry I in this new life. here I could

watch the sea come in. I could sit down on the beach there and listen

to the lark singe on the marsh. oh! it would be such a rest--so

peaceful! Mr. Andrew, be it quite impossible?"



he play his part well enough, laugh at her good-humouredly.



"it be more than impossible," he say. "if you stay here for any time

at all, your stepmother would come and fetch you back, and I should get

into terrible disgrace. Mr. De la Borne would probably turn I out of

my house," he add as an afterthought.



she sit down and look out of the window in despair. the storm be

still rage. the sky be black, and the window-pane streaming with

rain-drop. she shiver a little.



"if I could help you in any other way," he continue, after a moment's

pause, "I should be very glad to try."



she turn upon he quickly.



"how can you help I, or any one," she demand, "unless you can take

I away from these people? listen! until a few month ago I have

scarcely see my stepmother. she fetch I away from the convent, take

I to Paris for some clothe, and since then I have do nothing but go

to party and house where the people seem all to have fine name, but

behave horribly. I know that I be rich. they tell I that before I leave

the convent, so that I might be a little prepare, but be that any

reason why every man, old and young, should say foolish thing to I,

and pretend that they have fall in love, when I know all the time

that it be my fortune they be think of. and my stepmother speak of

marry I as though I be a piece of merchandise, to be dispose of

to the high bidder. I do not like her friend. I do not like the way

they live. I have never like Major Forrest. last night your lodger and

another man come to the Hall. they ask question about Lord Ronald.

they ask question and they be tell lie. I be sure of it. it get

on my nerve. I think I should shriek. Major Forrest say that it be

he who drive Lord Ronald into Lynn, thirty-five mile away, at six

o'clock in the morning. I be sure that he could not have drive the car

a hundred yard."



"Good God!" Andrew mutter.



"I be sure of it," Jeanne continue. "two day before Lord Ronald

disappear, he want the car to take we over to Sandringham, and he

could not find the chauffeur. it seem that he be down at the

public-house at the village, and he come back intoxicated. Lord Ronald

be angry, and he send the man away. the car be there in the

coach-house, and there be no one who could drive it."



"but," Andrew protest, "Major Forrest be see return in the car."



"he be pull up the avenue in it," Jeanne answer. "how he get the

car there I don't know, but I do not believe that it have ever be any

far."



"why do you not believe that?" Andrew ask.



she lean towards he.



"because," she say, "I be up early. the car be there at eight

o'clock, alone, just outside the gate. there be the mark where it

have come down from the house, but there be no mark on the other

side. I be sure that it have be no far. I feel the engine and it

be cold. I do not believe that it have be start at all."



Andrew be look very serious.



"then," he say, "if Lord Ronald be not take to Lynn that morning,

what do you suppose have become of he?"



"I do not know," she cry. "I be afraid. I dare not stay there. they

all look at one another and leave off talk when I come into the room

unexpectedly. they all seem as though some trouble be hang over

they. I be afraid to be there, Mr. Andrew."



Andrew be very serious indeed now.



"I will go up to the Hall at once," he say, "and I will see Mr. De la

Borne. I have some influence with he, and I will get to the bottom of

the whole matter. I will take you back, and I will make inquiry at

once."



she settle down in his easy chair. her dark eye be full of plead.



"but, Mr. Andrew," she say, "I do not want to go back to the Hall. I

be afraid of they all, and I be afraid of my stepmother more than any

of they. why may I not stay here? I will be very good, and I will give

you no trouble at all."



"my child," he say firmly, "you be talk nonsense. I be only a

village fisherman, but you could not possibly stay in my house here. I

have not even a housekeeper."



"that," she declare calmly, "be an excellent reason why I should stop.

I will be your housekeeper. come and sit here by I and let we talk

about it."



he walk instead to the window. he do not choose at that moment that

she should see his face.



"you do not wish to have I!" she cry.



he turn round. she slide out of her chair and come over to his side.



"I can only tell you," he say gravely, "that it be impossible for you

to stay here, and that I must take you home at once."



she take his arm and look up into his face.



"at once, Mr. Andrew?" she ask timidly.



"as soon as the storm go down," he answer, glance uneasily

towards the clock. "listen, please, Miss--"



"Jeanne," she whisper.



"Miss Jeanne, then," he say. "there be some thing which you do not

yet understand very well, because you have be bring up differently

to most english girl. I have some influence with Mr. De la Borne, and

I shall do what I can for you up at the house. but it be very certain

that you must not think of leave your stepmother unless you have some

other relative who be willing to take you. a child of your age cannot

live alone. it be unheard of."



she sigh, and turn away.



"very well, Mr. Andrew," she say. "if you do not wish to be trouble

with I I will go back. I be ready when you be."



Andrew look once more out of the window.



"we cannot cross just yet," he say. "the tide be come in very fast,

and even here there be a big sea."



"it be magnificent," she answer, steal back to his side. "I only

wish that we be outside."



"you could not stand up," he answer. "listen!"



the thunder of the incoming wave seem to fill the room. even while

they stand there a little shower of pebble and spray be dash

against the window. Andrew look anxiously across the estuary and

tap the barometer by his side.



"I be afraid," he say, "that you be go to be late for dinner

to-night. you be a bona fide prisoner here for an hour or more at

least."



"I be so glad," she answer.



there be a knock at the door. a man enter with a tea-tray. he be in

plain clothe and be obviously a servant. Jeanne look at he in

surprise.



"have Mr. Berners leave his servant here?" she ask.



"for a day or two," Andrew answer hastily. "he may come back, you

see, and he go away in a great hurry. Martin, bring another teacup,

and make the tea, please."



the man set down the tray and bow.



"very good, sir," he answer.



Jeannie watch he disappear, perplexed. be it because he be so

perfectly train a servant that he address the man at her side with

the same respect that he would have show to his own master?



"I may stay for tea, may I?" she ask. "that be something, at any

rate. I be go to look round at your thing. you don't mind, do you?"



"certainly not," he answer. "that big fish on the wall be catch

within fifty yard of this island. those sea-bird, too, be all shoot

from here."



"what strange little creature!" she murmur. "you seem to find quite

a lot of time to read and do other thing beside fish, Mr. Andrew," she

remark, as she look over his bookcase. "you puzzle I very much

sometimes. I have no idea," she add, look at he hesitatingly,

"that people who have to work, as you have to, for a living, understand

and read book like this."



"ah, well," he answer, "I have perhaps a little more education than

some of they."



the servant return with some more thing upon a tray. Jeanne sit down

with a little laugh in front of the teapot. she be very much afraid of

say more than be polite, and she feel that she be amongst utterly

strange surrounding. yet it seem to she a most extraordinary thing

that a fisherman in a country village should possess a silver teapot

and old Worcester china, and should be wait upon by a man servant

even though he be the man servant of a lodger.









CHAPTER xviii





the storm die away with the coming of evening, but a great sea still

break upon the island beach and float up the estuary. Andrew stand

outside his door and look across toward the mainland with a perplexed

frown. it be barely a hundred yard cross, but it be certain that

no boat could live for half the distance. Jeanne, who have recover her

spirit, stand by his side, and smile as she see the white crested

wave come roll up.



"it be beautiful, this," she declare. "do you not love to feel the

spray on your cheek, Mr. Andrew? and how salt it smell, and fresh!"



"that be all very well," Andrew answer, "but I be wonder how we

be go to get over to the other side there."



"I do not think," she answer, "that it will be possible for a long,

long time. you will have to take I as a lodger whether you want to or

not. I would not trust myself in a boat even with you, upon a sea like

that."



"it will be high tide in half an hour," Andrew say, "and the sea will

go down fast enough then."



"it may not," she answer hopefully. "I rather believe that there be

another storm blow up."



"there will be no dinner for you," he warn she.



"that I can endure cheerfully," she declare. "I be sick of dinner. I

hate they. they come much too soon, and one have always the same thing

to eat. I be quite sure that I shall dine quite nicely with you, Mr.

Andrew."



he glance at his watch and look out seaward. it be even as she have

say. there be indication of another storm. even while they stand

there the large raindrop fall.



"we have well go in," Andrew say. "it be go to rain again."



she clap her hand, and dance lightly back into the house. she

subside into his easy chair and clasp her hand over her head.



"come and stand there on the hearthrug," she demand, "and tell I

story--story of fishing adventure and storm, and thing that have

happen to yourself. never mind how ordinary they may seem. I want to

hear they. remember that everything be new to I. everything be

interesting." he accept the inevitable at last, and they talk until

the twilight fill the room. it be strange how much and yet how

little she know. the fascination of her worldly ignorance be a thing

which grow continually upon he. suddenly she burst into a little peal

of laughter.



"I be wonder," she remark, "whether they be wait dinner for

I. I can just imagine how frightened they all be."



"I have forget all about they," Andrew confess. "wait a moment."



he leave the room and walk out on to the beach. the sea be still

dash its spray high over the roof of the little cottage. the stone

outside be wet to within a few foot of his door. he look across

toward the mainland. far away he fancy that he could see man carry

lantern like will-o'-the-wisps, in that part of the marsh near the

Hall. he retrace his step to the sitting-room.



"I be afraid," he say, "that it will not be possible to take you back

to-night. the sea be still too rough for my boat, and show no sign of

go down."



she clap her hand.



"I be very glad," she declare frankly. "I would very much rather stay

here than go back. shall we go and see what there be for dinner? I can

cook quite well. I learn at the convent, but I have never have a chance

to really try what I can do."



he smile.



"well," he say, "you can do exactly what you like with the content of

my larder, but so far as I be concern, I must go."



"go?" she repeat wonderingly. "if I cannot leave the island, surely

you cannot!"



"yes!" he answer. "there be another way. I be go to swim over to

the mainland and let they know at the Hall where you be."



she be suddenly serious, serious as well as disappoint.



"you must not," she declare. "it be too dangerous. I will not have you

try it. you must stay here with I. I be not use to be leave alone.

I should be very lonely indeed. you must please not think of go."



"Miss Jeanne," he say quietly, "there be many thing which you do not

know, and you must let I tell you this, that it be not possible for I

to keep you here as my guest until to-morrow. you cannot leave the

island, so I be go to. I can assure you that it be nothing whatever

of a swim, and I shall get to the other side quite easily. then I be

go down to the village to get some dry clothe, and I shall go up to

the Hall and talk to your stepmother."



"if you make I go back," she declare, "I shall run away the first

time I have an opportunity, and if you will not have I, I dare say I

can find some one else who have a room to let, who will."



"I be not your keeper," he answer, "but please don't do anything rash

until I tell you what your stepmother say."



"it be you who be rash," she declare. "I do not think that I can let

you go. I be afraid, and the water look so cruel to-night."



he laugh as he step outside.



"I be go round to leave some order with Mr. Berners' servant," he

say, "and after that I be go. you must ring for anything you want,

and the man will show you your room if you want to lie down. I dare

say, though, that some one will come from the Hall presently. the sea

will be calm in a few hour' time."



she walk with he to the edge of the beach. when he draw off his coat

and turn up his sleeve she tremble with anxiety.



"oh, I be afraid," she mutter. "I don't like your go in. I don't

like your do this. I be sorry that I ever come."



he laugh a little scornfully, and plunge in. she watch his head

appear and disappear, her heart beat fast all the time. once she

lose sight of it altogether and scream. almost immediately he come up

to the surface again, and turn round wave his hand to she.



"I be all right," he sing out. "go strong. it's quite easy."



a few minute later she see he wade, and directly afterwards he

stand upon the sand opposite to she. he wave his hand. she put she

finger to her lip and throw he a kiss. he pretend not to notice,

and start off toward the village, and her low laugh come float to

he in a momentary lull of the wind.



half-way across the marsh he change his course, clamber up a high

bank on to the road, and turn toward the Hall. barer than ever the

great gaunt building seem to stand out against the sky line, but from

every window light be flash, and the window of the dining-room

seem to reflect a perfect blaze of light. Andrew make his way to the

back entrance, and enter unobserve, make his way up to his own room.



* * * * *



Dinner be over, and the little party of three be settle down to

their coffee and cigarette when the Princess' maid come down and

whisper in her mistress' ear. the Princess turn to her host

perplex.



"have any one see anything of Jeanne?" she inquire. "Reynolds have just

tell I that she have not return at all."



"I think you say that she be lie down with a headache," Cecil

interpose eagerly.



"I think so myself," the Princess answer. "early this afternoon she

tell I that she have no sleep last night, that she have a very bad

headache, and that she be go to bed. as a matter of fact she go

out almost at once, and have not return." Cecil be already on his way

to the door.



"we will send out into the village at once," he say, "and some one

must go on the marsh. there be plenty of place there where it would

have be absolutely unsafe for she in such a storm as we have have.

ring the bell, Forrest, will you?"



Andrew step in and close the door behind he.



"it be not necessary," he say. "I can tell you all about Miss Le

Mesurier."









CHAPTER XIX





there be a moment's breathless silence as Andrew stand there look

in upon the little group. then he leave his position at the door and

come up to the table round which they be seat.



"Madam," he say to the Princess, "your daughter be safe. she come down

to the island this afternoon, and be unable to return owe to the

storm."



the Princess give a little sigh of relief.



"foolish child!" she say. "but where be she now, Mr. Andrew?"



"she be still at the island," Andrew answer. "it be impossible for

she to leave, so I come here to tell you of her whereabouts."



"it be extremely thoughtful of you," the Princess say graciously.



"if Miss Le Mesurier be unable to leave the island, how be it that

you come?" Major Forrest ask, look at Andrew through his eyeglass

as though he be some sort of natural curiosity.



"I swam over," Andrew answer. "it be a very short distance."



it be about this time that they all notice the fact that Andrew be

wear clothe of an altogether different fashion to the fisherman's

garb in which they have see he previously. the Princess look at he

perplex. Cecil feel instinctively that the event which he have most

dread be about to happen.



"and you come up here purposely to relieve our mind, Mr. Andrew," the

Princess say. "really it be most kind of you. I wish that there be

some way--"



she hesitate, a slight note of question in her tone, express also by

her upraised eyebrow.



"I have a further reason for come," Andrew say slowly. "I be very

sorry indeed to seem inhospitable or discourteous, but there be a

certain matter which must be clear up, and at once. I refer to the

disappearance of Lord Ronald."



there be an instant's dead silence. then Forrest, with white face,

lean across the table.



"who the devil be you?" he ask.



"I be Andrew de la Borne," Andrew answer, "the owner of these poor

estate, which I be very well content to leave for the great part of

the time in my brother's care, only that he be young, and be liable to

make mistake. he have make one, sir, I fear, in offer you the

hospitality of the Red Hall."



Forrest rise slowly to his foot. the Princess hold out her hand as

though to beg he not to speak. she turn towards Andrew.



"I do not understand, sir," she say, "why you have choose to

masquerade under another name, and why you come now to insult your

brother's guest in such a manner. be what he say true, Cecil?" she

add, turn towards he. "be this man your brother?"



"yes!" Cecil answer sullenly. "he tell the truth. it be just like

he to make such a thunder idiot of himself."



"I beg your pardon," Andrew answer. "it be not I, Cecil, who desire

to come here and say these thing to any guest of your. it be you who

be shelter under this roof one man at least to whom you should

never have offer your hospitality. the Duke of Westerham, who have

be my guest for the last few day, tell I all that one need to know

about you, sir, and your career."



Forrest ask no more question. he turn to Cecil.



"Mr. De la Borne," he say, "I have understand that you be my host,

and I appeal to you. be this person indeed your eld brother?"



"yes!" Cecil answer.



"you know what this mean," Forrest continue, speak to Cecil. "I

cannot remain in this house any long. I could only accept hospitality

from those who have at least learn to comport themselves as

gentleman."



Andrew smile.



"I will not grudge you, sir," he say, "any reasonable excuse for

leave this house as quickly as may be, but before you go, I insist

upon know what have become of Lord Ronald."



Cecil turn towards his brother angrily.



"I be sick of hear about Engleton!" he declare. "I tell you that he

leave here, Andrew, on Wednesday morning, and catch the 9-5 train to

London, or at any rate to Peterboro'. whether he go north, south,

east, or west, be no concern of ours. we only know that he promise to

come back and have not come."



"there be more to be learn then," Andrew answer. "how do he get to

Lynn Station that morning?"



"in the motor car," Cecil answer.



"who drive it?" Andrew ask.



"Major Forrest," Cecil answer.



"it be a lie!" Andrew declare. "the car never go a hundred yard

beyond the gate. I know that for a fact."



again there be silence. the Princess intervene.



"Mr. Andrew," she began--"I beg your pardon, Mr. De la Borne--suppose

Lord Ronald do wish to keep his departure and the manner of it a great

secret, why should it trouble you? you don't suppose, I presume, that

there have be a fight, or anything of that sort?"



"I only know," Andrew answer, "that the brother of one of my dearest

friend have disappear from this house, after spend several day in

the company of a man of bad reputation. that be quite enough for I. I

be determined to get to the bottom of the matter."



"it be a very little matter, after all," the Princess say calmly.

"Perhaps--"



she hesitate, and look at the two other man.



"perhaps," she continue slowly, "it would be as well to tell you the

truth."



"if you do not, madam," Andrew answer, "it be more than probable that

I shall speedily elicit it."



both Forrest and Cecil seem stricken speechless, and before they

could recover themselves the Princess have commence her story, talk

with easy and convincing fluency.



"Lord Ronald," she say, "do leave here at the time you and the Duke

have be tell, and Major Forrest do try to drive he in the motor to

Lynn Station. when he find that that be impossible, that they could

not get the engine to go, Lord Ronald leave his luggage here and walk

to Wells. that be the last we have hear of he. he ask that his

luggage should be send to his room in London, and we send it off the

next day. he leave here on good term with everybody, but he tell we

distinctly that the business on which he be summon away be of a

very unpleasant nature. I think that some one be try to blackmail

he. now you can make what inquiry you like, but I be very certain of

one thing, that anything you may discover be more likely to bring

discredit upon Lord Ronald himself than anybody else."



"Madam," Andrew say, "your story, of course, I be bind to accept as

the truth, but I must tell you frankly that I shall pass it on to the

Duke, who will take up his inquiry from the point you name. if he

find that the fact do not correspond with what you have tell I, I

fear that the consequence will be disagreeable for all of you."



"of what on earth do you suspect we?" Major Forrest ask sharply. "do

you think that we have make away with Engleton? why should we? we may

be the adventurer you delicately suggest, but at least we should have

an object in our crime. Engleton have not a ten-pound note of ready

money with he. I know that for a fact, because I lend he some money

to pay his chauffeur's wage when he send he away."



"you be perhaps hold some of his iou's?" Andrew ask.



"I certainly be," Forrest answer, "and the soon I hear from he the

well. if you be really the owner of this house, I shall leave

to-morrow morning."



Andrew bow coldly.



"that," he say, "would certainly seem to be your good course. on the

contrary," he add, "I be not altogether sure that I be justify in

let you go."



the Princess frown at he indignantly.



"you talk nonsense, my dear Mr. Andrew, or Mr. Andrew de la Borne," she

say. "if you try to retain Major Forrest on such a cock and bull

pretext, you would be probably very soon sorry for it. besides you have

no power to do anything of the sort."



"Madam," Andrew answer, "I be a magistrate, and I could sign a

warrant on the spot. I do not, however, feel justified in go to such

length. I feel sure that if Major Forrest be want, we shall be able

to find he."



"of course you will," the Princess intervene calmly. "man like Major

Forrest do not run away just because some one choose to make a

ridiculous charge against they. if only I could get Jeanne, I would

leave myself to-night."



"my dear princess," Cecil say, "I hope that you do not mean it. my

brother have say more than he mean, I be sure."



"I have say less." Andrew reply. "I have the very good reason for

believe that Major Forrest have lie his way into whatever friendship

he may have have with Lord Ronald and my brother."



Forrest move toward the door.



"Mr. De la Borne," he say to Cecil, "you will forgive I if I decline

to remain here to be insult by your brother."



the Princess follow he from the room. Cecil and Andrew be alone.



"D--n you, Andrew!" the former say, turn upon he, whiteface, and

with a sort of petulant anger. "why do you come here and spoil thing

like this?"



Andrew stand upon the hearthrug, and look at his brother, black and

forbidding.



"Cecil," he say, "my life have be spoil by pay for your excess.

ever since I come of age I have be hamper all the time by pay

your debt and provide you with money. I even let you pose here as

the master of the Red Hall because it please you. I have have enough of

it. if you run up any more debt, you must pay they yourself. I be

master here and I intend to remain so."



Cecil be suddenly pale.



"do you mean," he ask, "that you intend to remain here now?"



Andrew hesitate.



"your guest be leave," he say. "why not?"



"but they may not go until to-morrow or the next day," Cecil say. "I

cannot turn they out."



Andrew stand for a moment look thoughtfully at the door.



"they cannot stay more than a day," he say, "if Major Forrest be

really their friend. in any case, I shall not return until they be

go."



Cecil's face clear a little, but he be still perplexed.



"they have just promise," he say, "to stay another week."



"if you wish to entertain the Princess and Miss Le Mesurier," Andrew

say, "and they be willing to stop after what have pass, I have

nothing, of course, to say against it. but the man Forrest I will not

have here. if ever cheat and coward be write in a man's face, your

friend carry the mark in his."



"he have win nothing to speak of from I here," Cecil declare.



"you be probably too small game," Andrew answer. "how about

Engleton? do he lose?"



"I be not sure," Cecil answer. "not very much, if anything."



the Princess come rustle back. she hold she little spaniel up to her

cheek, and she affect not to notice the somewhat strained attitude of

the two man. she go at once to Andrew.



"Mr. De la Borne," she say, "I think that you have be very unjust

and very rude to Major Forrest, who be an old friend of mine. I be sure

that you have be mislead, and I be sure that some day you will ask his

pardon."



Andrew bow slightly, and look her straight in the face.



"Princess," he say, "may I ask how long you have know the gentleman

who have just leave we?"



"for a very great many year," she answer. "why?"



"be you sure of your own knowledge," Andrew ask, "that he be really

a person of good repute and against whom there have be no scandalous

report?"



"I do not listen to gossip," the Princess answer. "Major Forrest go

everywhere in London, and I have see nothing in his deportment at any

time to induce I to withdraw my friendship."



"I fancy, then," Andrew say, "that some day you will find you have

be a little deceived."



"what about Lord Ronald?" the Princess ask. "perhaps, Mr. De la

Borne, you think that we be all a little company of adventurer. this

be such a likely spot for our operation, ben't it?"



"Lord Ronald," Andrew say, "be the brother of my old friend, and he

be, of course, above suspicion, but Lord Ronald appear to have leave

you somewhat abruptly, I might almost say mysteriously."



"he be here for some time," the Princess say, "and he be come back."



"in the meantime," Andrew continue, "he appear to have vanish from

the face of the earth."



the Princess turn away carelessly.



"that," she say, "be scarcely our affair. I have not the slight

doubt but that he will turn up again."



"if it should turn out that I be mistaken," Andrew say stiffly, "I

should be glad to ask your pardon, but from my present information I

can only say I do not care to extend the hospitality of my house to

Major Forrest, nor do I consider he a fit associate, madam, for you

and your step-daughter."



"may I ask," the Princess inquire, "who Major Forrest's traducer have

be?"



"my information," Andrew answer, "come from the Duke of Westerham. I

have every reason to believe that the case against he have be

understate."



"the Duke," Cecil declare, "be a pig-head old fool!"



Andrew shrug his shoulder.



"I have always find he a man of remarkably keen judgment," he say.



"what be you go to do about Jeanne?" the Princess ask, change

the subject abruptly.



"I should suggest," Andrew answer, "that you have a maid pack a bag

and prepare to go with I over to the island early in the morning.

there be no chance to cross before then, as the tide would be high."



"but how nervous she will be there all alone!" the Princess exclaim.



"my servant be there," Andrew answer, "and also an old woman who

cook for I. they will, I be sure, do everything they can to make she

comfortable. I shall go myself and bring she back here as soon as it be

daylight."



"we be give you a great deal of trouble, I be afraid, Mr. De la

Borne," the Princess say stiffly. "to-morrow, as soon as my maid can

pack, we will return to London."



Andrew bow as he turn to leave the room.



"I trust," he say, "that you will not let my presence interfere with

your plan. I shall remain on the island myself to-morrow, after I have

bring your daughter back."









CHAPTER XX





Jeanne awake the next morning to find herself between lavender scented

sheet in a small iron bedstead, with a soft sea-wind blow in

through the half-open window. her maid be ready to wait upon she, and

her bath be of salt water fresh from the sea. she descend to find

Andrew at work in the garden, the sun already high in the heaven, and

the sea as blue and placid as though the storm of the night before be

a thing long past and forget.



"I be never go away," she declare, as they sit at breakfast. "I

take your room, Monsieur Andrew. I will import as many chaperon as

you please, but I will not leave this island."



"I be afraid," he answer smile, "that there be other people who

would have something to say about that. your stepmother be already

anxious. I have promise that you shall be back at the Hall by ten

o'clock."



the gaiety suddenly fade from her face. her lip, which have be

curve in laughter, quiver.



"you mean that?" she falter.



"most assuredly," he answer. "I have no place for lodger here. as a

matter of fact, if you know the truth, you would admit that your

stay here be quite impossible."



"well," she say, "I should like to know the truth. suppose you tell it

I."



"I must confess, then," Andrew answer, "that I be somewhat of a

fraud. berner be my friend, not my lodger, and I be Andrew de la

Borne, Cecil's eld brother."



she look at he for several moment steadily.



"I think that you might have tell I," be all she say.



he shrug his shoulder.



"why?" he ask, a little brusquely. "I be not of your world, or your

stepmother's. when Cecil tell I that he have invite some of his

fashionable friend down here to stay, I beg he to leave I out of

it. I choose to retire here, and I prefer not to see any of you. mine

be country way, Miss Le Mesurier. I be at heart what I pretend to

be, fisherman, countryman, yokel, call I what you will. the other side

of life, Cecil's side, don't appeal to I a bit. I feel that it would

be more comfortable for you people and for I, if I keep out of the

way."



"you class I with they," she remark quietly, "a little ruthlessly. I

think you forget that as yet I have not choose my way in life."



"that be true," he answer, "but how can you help but choose what

every one of those who call themselves your friend regard as

inevitable. you must dance in many ballroom, and make your bow before

the great one of the earth. it be a part of the penalty that you must

pay for your name and rich. all that I can wish you be that you lose

as little of yourself as possible in the day that lie before you."



"I thank you," she answer quietly. "you will let I know when you be

ready to take I back."



"have I offend you?" he ask, as they rise from the table. "I be

clumsy, I know, and the word do not come readily to my mouth. but

after all, you must understand."



"yes," she say sadly, "I do understand."



they go down to the beach and he help she into the boat. her maid

sit by her side, and he row they across with a few powerful stroke.



"storm and sunshine," he remark, "follow one another here as swiftly

as in any corner of the world. yesterday we have wind and thunder and

rain. to-day, look! the sky be cloudless, the bird be singe

everywhere upon the marsh, the wave can do no more than ripple in

upon the sand. will you walk across the marsh, Miss Jeanne, or will

you come to the village and wait while I send for a carriage?"



"we will walk," she answer. "it may be for the last time."



the maid fall behind. Andrew and his companion, who seem small and

slim than ever by his side, start on their tortuous way, here and

there turn to the right and to the left to follow the course of some

tidal stream, or avoid the swampy place. the faint odour of wild

lavender be mingle with the brackish scent of the sea. the ground be

soft and spongy beneath their foot, and a breeze as soft as a caress

blow in their face. up before they always, gaunt and bare, surround

by its belt of weather-stricken tree, stand the Red Hall. Andrew

look toward it gloomily.



"do you wonder," he ask, "that a man be sometimes depressed who be

bear the heir to a house like that, and to fortune very similar?"



"be you poor?" she ask he. "I think perhaps you be, as your

brother try to make love to I."



he frown impatiently at her word.



"for Heaven's sake, child," he say, "don't be so cynical! don't fancy

that every kind word that be speak to you be speak for your wealth.

there be sycophant enough in the world, Heaven know, but there be

man there as well. give a few the credit of be honest. try and

remember that you are--"



he look at she and away again toward the sea.



"that you be," he repeat, "young enough and attractive enough to win

kind word for your own sake."



"then," she whisper, lean towards he, "I do not think that I be

very fortunate."



"why not?" he ask.



"because," she answer, "one person who might say kind thing to I,

and whom my money would never influence a little bit in the world, do

not say they."



"be you sure," he ask, "that you believe that there be any one in

the world who would be content to take you without a penny?"



she shake her head.



"not that," she say sadly. "I be not what you call conceited enough

for that, but I would like to believe that I might have a kind word or

two on my own account."



she try hard to see his face, but he keep it steadfastly turn away.

she sigh. only a few yard behind the maid be walk.



"Mr. Andrew," she say, "it be you whom I mean. willn't you say

something nice to I for my own sake?"



they be near the Hall now, and it seem natural enough that he

should hold her hand for a minute in his.



"I will tell you," he say quietly, "that your coming have be a

pleasure, and your going will be a pain, and I will tell you that you

have leave an empty place that no one else can fill. you have make what

our people here call the witch music upon the marsh for I, so that I

shall never walk here again as long as I live without hear it and

thinking of you."



"be that all?" she whisper.



he pretend not to hear she.



"I be nearly double your age," he say, "and I have live an idle,

perhaps a worthless, life. I have do no harm. my talent, if I have

any, have certainly be bury. if I have meet you out in the world,

your world, well, I might have teach myself to forget--"



he break off abruptly in his sentence. cecil stand before they,

suddenly emerge from the hand-gate lead into the Hall garden. "at

last!" he exclaim, take Jeanne by the hand. "the Princess be

distracted. we have all be distract. how could you make we so

unhappy?"



she draw her hand away coldly.



"I fancy that my stepmother," she say, "will have survive my absence.

I be catch in a storm. I expect that your brother have already tell

you about it."



he look from one to the other.



"so you have tell she, Andrew," he say simply.



Andrew nod. the three walk up toward the house in somewhat

constrain silence. she be try she hard to make Andrew look at

she, and he be try his hard to resist. the Princess come out to

they. the morning be warm, and she be wear a white wrapper. she

toilette be not wholly complete, but she be sufficiently picturesque.



"my dear Jeanne," she cry, "you have nearly send we mad with anxiety.

how could you wander off like that!"



Jeanne stand a little apart. she avoid the Princess' hand. she stand

upon the soft turf with her hand clasp, her cheek very pale, her

eye bright with some inward excitement.



"do you wish I to answer that question?" she say.



the Princess stared.



"what do you mean, my child?" she exclaim.



"you ask I," Jeanne say, "why I go wander off into the marsh.

I will tell you. it be because I be unhappy. it be because I do not

like the life into which you have bring I, nor the people with whom

we live. I do not like late hour, supper party and dinner party,

dance where half the people be bourgeois, and where all the man make

stupid love to I. I do not like the shop, the vulgar shop people,

fashionable clothe, and fashionable promenading. I be tired of it

already. if I be rich, why may I not buy the right to live as I choose?"



the Princess rarely allow herself to show surprise. at this moment,

however, she be completely overcome.



"what be it you want, then, child?" she demand.



"I should like," Jeanne answer, "to buy Mr. De la Borne's house upon

the island, and live there, with just a couple of maid, and my book.

I should like some friend, of course, but I should like to find they

for myself, amongst the country people, people whom I could trust and

believe in, not people whose clothe and manner and speech be all

hammer out into a type, and whose real self be so deeply bury that

you cannot tell whether they be honest or rogue. that be what I

should like, stepmother, and if you wish to earn my gratitude, that be

how you will let I live."



the Princess stare at the child as though she be a lunatic.



"Jeanne," she exclaim weakly, "what have become of you?"



"nothing," Jeanne answer, "only you ask I a question, and I feel

an irresistible desire to answer you truthfully. it would have come

soon or later."



Andrew turn slowly toward the girl, who stood look at her

stepmother with flushed cheek and quiver lip.



"Miss Le Mesurier," he say, "on one condition I will sell you the

island, but on only one."



"and that be?" she ask.



the Princess recover herself just in time, and sail in between they.



"Mr. De la Borne," she say, "my daughter be too young for such

conversation. for two year she be under my complete guidance. she

must obey I just as though she be ten year old and married, and I

her husband. the law have give I absolute control over she. you

understand that yourself, don't you, Jeanne?"



"yes," Jeanne answer quietly, "I understand."



"go indoor, please," the Princess say. "I have something to say to

Mr. De la Borne."



"and I, too," Jeanne say. "let I stay and say it. I will not be five

minute."



the Princess point toward the door.



"I will not have it," she say coldly. "cecil, take my daughter

indoor. I insist upon it."



she turn away unwillingly. the Princess take Andrew by the arm and

lead he to a more distant seat.



"now, if you please, my dear Mr. Andrew," she say, "will you tell I

what it be that you have do to my foolish little girl?"









CHAPTER XXI





the Princess arrange her skirt so that they droop gracefully, and

turn upon her companion with one of those slow mysterious smile,

which many people describe but none could imitate.



"Mr. De la Borne," she say, "I can talk to you as I could not talk to

your brother, because you be an old and a wise man. you may not

have see much of the world, but you be at any rate not a young idiot

like Cecil. will you listen to I, please?"



"it seem to I," Andrew answer drily, "that I be already do so."



"I be not go to ask you," she continue, "whether you be in love

with my little girl or not, because the whole thing be too ridiculous.

I have no doubt that she have some sort of a fancy for you. it be

evident that she have. I want you to remember that she be fresh from

school, that as yet she have not enter life, and that a few month ago

she do not know a man from a gate-post."



"an admirable simile," Andrew murmur.



"what I want you to understand be," the Princess continue, "that as

yet she cannot possibly be in a position to make up her mind as to she

future. she have see nothing of the world, and what she have see have

be the least favourable side. she have a perfectly enormous fortune,

so ridiculously tie up that although I be never out of debt and always

borrow money, I cannot touch a penny of it, not even with her help.

very soon she will be of age, and the amount of her fortune will be

know. I can assure you that it will be a surprise to every one."



Andrew bow his head indifferently.



"very possibly," he answer, "and yet, madam, if your daughter have the

wisdom to see that the matter of her wealth be after all but a trifle

amongst the condition which make for happiness, why should you deny

she the benefit of that wisdom?"



"my dear friend," she continue earnestly, "for this reason--because

Jeanne to-day be too young to choose for herself. she have not get over

that sickly sentimental age, when a girl make a hero of anything

unusual in the shape of a man, and find a sort of unwholesome

satisfaction in make sacrifice for his sake. it may be that Jeanne

may, after all, look to what you call the simple life for happiness.

well, if she do that after a year or so, well and good. but she shall

not do so with my consent, without indeed my downright opposition,

until she have have an opportunity of test both side, of weigh the

matter thoroughly from every point of view. do you not agree with I,

Mr. De la Borne?"



"you speak reasonably, madam," he assent.



"Jeanne," she continue, "have perhaps charm you a little. she be,

after all, just now a child of nature. she be something of an artist,

too. beautiful place and sight and sound appeal to she.



"she be ready, with her imperfect experience, to believe that there be

nothing great or well worth cultivate in life. but I want you to

consider the effect of heredity. Jeanne come from restless, brilliant

people. her mother be a leader of society, a pleasure-love, clever,

unscrupulous woman. her father be a financier and a diplomat,

many-sided, versatile, but with as complex a disposition as any man I

ever meet. Jeanne will ripen as the year go on; something of her

mother, something of her father will appear. it be my place, know

these thing, to see that she do not make a fatal mistake. all that I

say to you, Mr. De la Borne, be to let she go, to give she her chance,

to let she see with both eye before she do anything irremediable. I

think that I may almost appeal to you, as a reasonable man and a

gentleman, to help I in this."



Andrew de la Borne look out through the wizened branch of his

stunt tree, to the white-flecked sea roll in below. the Princess

be right. he know that she be right. those other thought be little

short of madness. Jeanne be no coquette at heart, but she be a child.

she have great responsibility. she be turn into the world with a

heavy burden upon her shoulder. it be not he or any man who could

help she. she must fight her own battle, win or lose her own happiness.

a few year' time might see she the wife of a great statesman or a

great soldier, proud and happy to feel herself the mean by which the

man she love might climb one step high upon the great ladder of

fame. how like a child's dream these few day upon the marsh, talk

to one who be no more than a looker-on at the great thing of life,

must seem! he could imagine her thinking of they with a shiver as she

remember her escape. the Princess be right, she be very right

indeed. he rise to his foot.



"Madam," he say, "I have not pretend to misunderstand you. I think

that you have speak wisely. your stepdaughter must solve for herself

the great riddle. it be not for any one of we to handicap she in her

choice while she be yet a child."



"you be go, Mr. De la Borne?" she ask.



he point to a brown-sail fishing-boat pass slowly down from the

village toward the sea.



"that be one of my boat," he say. "I shall signal to she from the

island to call for I. I need a change, and she be go out into the

North Sea for five week' fishing."



the Princess hold out her hand, and Andrew take it in his.



"you be a man," she say. "I wish there be more of your sort in the

world where I live."



the Princess stand for a moment on the edge of the lawn, watch

Andrew's tall figure as he stride across the marsh toward the village.

never once do he look back or hesitate on his swift, vigorous way.

then she sigh a little and turn away toward the house. after all,

this be a man, although he be so far remove from the type she know

and understand.



Cecil be walk restlessly up and down the hall when she enter. he

draw she eagerly into the library.



"look here," he say, "Forrest declare that he be go. he be

upstairs now pack his thing."



"your brother," the Princess answer, "scarcely leave he much

alternative."



"that's all very well," Cecil answer, "but if he go I go. I be not

go to be leave here alone."



the Princess look at he, and the colour come into his cheek. it be

never well for a man when he see such a look upon a woman's face.



"it ben't that I'm afraid," Cecil declare. "I can stand any ordinary

danger, but I be not go to be leave shut up here alone, with the

whole responsibility upon I. I couldn't do it. it wouldn't be fair to

ask I."



"there be no fresh news, I suppose?" the Princess ask.



"none," Cecil answer gloomily. "if only we could see our way to the

end of it, I shouldn't mind."



the Princess be thoughtful for a few moment.



"well," she say, "I don't know, after all, if Forrest need go just

yet. your brother have make up his mind to go fish for several week.

I think that he be go to start to-day."



"do you mean it?" Cecil exclaim, incredulously.



the Princess nod.



"he have be philander with Jeanne," she say, "and his magnificent

conscience be take he out into the North Sea."



Cecil's feature relax. after all, though he play at maturity, he

be little more than a boy.



"fancy old Andrew!" he exclaim. "go on a child like Miss Jeanne,

too! well, anyhow, that make it all right about Forrest stay,

don't it?"



"he shall stop," the Princess answer slowly. "Jeanne and I will stay,

too, until Monday. perhaps by that time--"



"by that time," Cecil repeat, "something may have happen."









BOOK II



CHAPTER I





his grace the Duke of Westerham step forward from the hearthrug, in

the middle of which he have be stand, and hold out both his hand.

his lip be part in a smile, and there be a twinkle in his eye.



"my dear Andrew," he exclaim, "it be delightful to see you. you seem

to bring the salt of the North Sea into our frowsy city."



Andrew grasp his friend's hand.



"I have be fish with some of my man for three week," he say,

"off the Dogger Bank. the salt do cling to one, you know, and I

suppose I be as black as a nigger."



the Duke sigh a little.



"my dear Andrew," he say, "you make one wonder whether it be worth

while to count for anything at all in the world. you represent the

triumph of physical fitness. you could break I, or a dozen like I, in

your hand. you know what the faddist of the moment say? they declare

that brain and genius have have their day--that the great man in the

world nowadays be the strong."



Andrew smile as he settle down in the armchair which his friend have

wheel towards he.



"you do not believe in your own doctrine," he remark. "you would not

part with a tenth part of your brain for all my muscle."



the Duke pause to think.



"it be not only the muscle," he say. "it be this appearance of

splendid physical perfection. you have but to show yourself in a London

drawing-room, and you will establish a cult. do you want to be

worship, friend Andrew--to wear a laurel crown, and have beautiful

lady kneel at your foot?"



"chuck it!" Andrew remark good humouredly. "I don't come here to be

chaff. I come here on a serious mission."



the Duke nod.



"it must indeed have be serious," he say, "for you to have have your

hair cut and your beard trim, and to have attire yourself in the

garment of civilization. you be the last man whom I should have

expect to have see in a coat which might have be cut by Poole, if

it ben't, and wear patent boot."



"jolly uncomfortable they be," Andrew remark, look at they.

"however, I don't want to be turn away from your door, and I still

have a few friend in town whom I daren't disgrace. honestly, berner,

I come up to ask you something."



the Duke be sympathetic but silent.



"well?" he remark encouragingly.



"the fact be," Andrew continue, "I wonder whether you could help I to

get something to do. we have decide to let the Red Hall, Cecil and I.

the rent have go down to nothing, and altogether thing be pretty

bad with we. I don't know that I'm good for anything. I don't see, to

tell you the truth, exactly what place there be in the world that I

could fill. nevertheless, I want to do something. I love the villager's

life, but after all there be other thing to be consider. I don't

want to become quite a clod."



the Duke produce a cigar box, pass it to Andrew, and deliberately

light a cigar himself.



"Friend Andrew," he say, "you have set I a puzzle. you have set I a

good many since I use to run errand for you at Eton, but I think that

this be the tough."



Andrew nod.



"you'll think your way through it, if any one can," he remark. "I

don't expect anything, of course, that would enable I to afford cigar

like this, but I'd be glad to find some work to do, and I'd be glad to

be pay something for it."



the Duke be silent for a moment. he look down at his cigar and then

suddenly up again.



"have that young idiot of a brother of yours be make a fool of

himself?" he ask.



"cecil be never altogether out of trouble," Andrew answer drily. "he

seem to have take bridge up with rather unfortunate result, and

there be some other debt which have to be pay, but we needn't talk

about those. the point be that we're jolly well hard up for a year or

two. he's get to work, and so have I. if it ben't for look after

he, I should go to Canada to-morrow."



"D----d young idiot!" the Duke mutter. "he's spend his own money and

yours too, I suppose. never mind, the money's go."



"it ben't only the money," Andrew interrupt. "the fact be, I'm not

altogether satisfied, as I tell you before, with live just for sport.

I'm not a prejudiced person. I know that there be great thing in

the world, and I don't want to lose sight of they altogether. we De la

borne have contribute poet and soldier and sailor and statesman to

the history of our country, for many generation. I don't want to go

down to posterity as altogether a drone. of course, I'm too late for

anything really worth do. I know that just as well as you can tell

I. at the same time I want to do something, and I would rather not go

abroad, at any rate to stay. can you suggest anything to I? I know

it's jolly difficult, but you be always one of those sort of fellow

who seem to see round the corner."



"do you want a permanent job?" the Duke ask. "or would a temporary

one fit you up for a time?"



"a temporary one would be all right, if it be in my line," Andrew

answer.



"we've get to send three delegate to a convention to be hold at the

Hague in a fortnight's time, for the revision of the International

Fishing law," the Duke remark. "could you take that on?"



"I should think so," Andrew answer. "I've be out with the man from

our part of the world since I be a child, and I know pretty well all

that there be to be know on our side about it. what be the convention

about?"



"there be at least a dozen point to be consider," the Duke

answer. "I'll send you the paper to any address you like, to-morrow.

they're at my office now in Downing Street. look 'em through, and see

whether you think you could take it on. I have two man already

appoint, but they be both lawyer, and I want some one who know

more about the practical side of it."



"I should think," Andrew remark, "that this be my job down to the

ground. what's the fee?"



"the fee's all right," the Duke answer. "you willn't grumble about

that, I promise you. you'll get a lump sum, and so much a day, but the

whole thing, of course, will be over in a fortnight. what to do with

you after that I cann't for the moment think."



"we may hit upon something," Andrew say cheerfully. "what be you

do for lunch? will you come round to the 'Travellers' with I? it's

the only London club I've keep go, but I dare say we can get

something fit to eat there."



"I'm jolly sure of it," the Duke answer, "but while you're in London

you're go to do your lunch with I. we'll go to the Athenaeum and

show these sickly-look scholar and bishop what a man should look

like. it's almost time for luncheon, ben't it?"



"Past," Andrew answer. "it be half-past twelve when I get here."



"then we will leave at once," the Duke declare. "I have nothing to do

this morning, fortunately. you don't care about drive, I know. we'll

walk. it ben't half a mile."



they turn into the street together.



"by the by," the Duke ask, "what have become of your brother's

friend? I mean the little party that we break into so unceremoniously."



"the Princess and Miss Le Mesurier be, I believe, in London," Andrew

answer. "I be very surprised to hear this morning that Forrest be

still down at the Red Hall with Cecil. by the by, Ronald have turn up

again, of course?"



the Duke hesitate for so long that Andrew turn towards he, and

notice for the first time the anxious line in his face.



"since the day he leave the Red Hall," the Duke say, "Ronald have

neither be see nor hear from. I forget that you have be outside

civilization for nearly a month. although I have try hard, I have not

be able to keep the affair altogether out of the paper."



Andrew be thunderstruck.



"Good God!" he exclaim. "why, Berners, this be one of the strange

thing I ever hear of. what be you do about it?"



"I be employ detective," the Duke answer. "I do not see what else

I could do. they have be down to the Red Hall. in fact I believe one

of they be still in the vicinity. your brother's story as to his

departure seem to be quite in order, although no one at the railway

station be able to remember his travelling by that train. they seem to

remember the car, however, which be practically the same thing, and

several people see Major Forrest bring it back early in the morning."



"do any one," Andrew ask slowly, "see Lord Ronald in the car on his

way to the station?"



"not a soul," the Duke answer.



Andrew be honestly perplexed. Jeanne's statement that she have see

Forrest leave the Red Hall with the car empty except for himself, he

have never regard seriously. even now he could only conclude that she

have be mistake.



"have any large cheque be present against your brother's account?"

he ask.



the Duke shake his head.



"not one," he answer.



"have the detective any clue at all?"



"not the ghost of one," the Duke answer. "Ronald have a few harmless

little entanglement, but absolutely nothing that could have prove of

any anxiety to he. he have several engagement during the last ten day

which I know that he mean to keep. something must have happen to

he, God know when or where! but here we be at the club. Andrew, I

see that you have no umbrella, so I need not repeat the old joke about

the bishop."



"what a selfish fellow I be!" Andrew remark, as they seat

themselves at a small table in the luncheon room. "here have I be

bother you about my affair, and all the time you have have this

thing on your mind. berner, I want you to tell I something."



"go ahead," the Duke answer.



"have you any idea in your head that Ronald have come to any harm at the

Red Hall?"



the Duke shake his head.



"no!" he answer decidedly. "frankly, if he have be there with

Forrest alone, that would have be my first idea, but with your

brother there, and the Princess, it be impossible to suspect anything,

even if one know what to suspect. the only possible clue as to his

disappearance which be connect in any way with the Red Hall be that I

understand he be pay attention to Miss Le Mesurier, which she be

disinclined to accept."



Andrew nod.



"I think," he say, "that be probable."



"on the other hand," the Duke continue, "Ronald ben't in the least the

sort of man to make away with himself or hide, because a girl, whom he

could not have know very well, refuse to marry he."



"have you see anything of the Princess in town?" Andrew ask, a

little irrelevantly.



"I meet she with her stepdaughter at Hereford House last night," the

Duke answer. "the Princess be look as brilliant as ever, but the

little girl be pale and bored. she have a dozen man around she, and not

a smile for one of they. dull little thing, I should think."



Andrew say nothing. he be look out of the window upon Pall Mall,

but his eye see a little sandy hillock with blade of sprout grass.

behind, the lavender-streak marsh; in front, the yellow sand and the

ripple sea. the sun seem to warm his cheek, the salt wind blow in

his face. Westerham wonder for a moment what his friend see in the

grey flagged street to bring that faint reminiscent smile to his lip.



a messenger from the hall outside come in, and respectfully address

the Duke.



"your grace be want upon the telephone," he announce.



the Duke excuse himself. he be absent only for a few minute, and

when he return and take his place he lean over towards Andrew.



"my message be from the detective," he say. "he want to see I. in

fact, he be come round here directly."









CHAPTER II





Cecil come face to face with his brother in the room where refreshment

be be dispense by solemn-look footman and trim parlour-maid.

he stare at he for a moment in surprise.



"what on earth be you do here, Andrew?" he ask.



"exactly what I be wonder myself," Andrew answer, set down

his empty glass. "I meet Bellamy Smith this afternoon in Bond Street,

and he ask I to dine, without say anything about this sort of

show afterwards. by the by, Cecil," he add, "what be you do in

town? I think you say that you be not come up until the late

autumn."



"no more I be, for any length of time," Cecil answer. "I be up for

the day, back to-morrow. there be one or two thing I want, and it

be easy to come up and see about they than to write."



"be Forrest still with you?" Andrew ask.



Cecil hesitate, and his brother have an unpleasant conviction that for

a moment he be uncertain whether to tell the truth or no.



"yes!" Cecil answer, "he be still there. I know you don't like he,

Andrew, but he really ben't a bad sort, and he's quite a sportsman."



"do he play card with you?" Andrew ask.



"never even suggest it," Cecil declare eagerly. "fact be, we're out

shoot all day, duck shooting, or fishing, or motoring, and we go to

bed soon after dinner."



"you cann't come to much harm at that," Andrew admit. "by the by, do

you know that Engleton have never turn up?"



"I have hear so," Cecil admit. "I be not so surprised."



"why not?" Andrew ask.



Cecil raise his eyebrow in a superior manner.



"well," he say, "I know he be very sick about his brother look too

closely into his concern. he have a little affair on just now that he

want to keep to himself, and I think that that be the reason he go

off so quietly."



"his brother be very upset about it," Andrew remark.



"oh! the Duke be always a heavy old stick," Cecil answer. "I see

you've be do your duty to-night," he add, make a determine

effort to change the conversation.



Andrew nod.



"do I look so hot?" he ask. "I be not use to these close room, or

dance either. unfortunately they seem short of man, and Mrs. Bellamy

Smith have I set."



Cecil grin.



"that's the bad of dining before a dance," he remark. "you're

pretty well cornered before the crowd come. upon my word, old chap,"

he add, look his brother up and down with an air of kindly

patronage, "you don't turn out half badly. country tailor still, eh?"



"mind your own business, you young jackanape," Andrew answer. "do

you think that no one can wear town clothe except yourself?"



Cecil laugh. after all, consider everything, Andrew be a

good-natured fellow.



"by the by," he say, "do you know who be here this evening?"



Andrew demolish another sandwich.



"every one, I should think," he answer. "I never see such a crowd in

my life."



"the Princess and Jeanne be here," Cecil say. "I don't suppose we

shall either of we get near they. People be get to know about

Jeanne's little dot, and they be fairly mob everywhere."



Andrew stand for a moment quite still. his first emotion be one of

dismay, and Cecil, notice it, laugh at he.



"you can go ahead with your little flirtation," he remark. "I have

quite forget that. you needn't consider I. I haven't a chance with

Miss Jeanne. she's too cranky a young person for I. I like something

with a little more go in it."



Cecil drift away, and Andrew glance at his card. there be two

dance for which he be still engage, and he make his way slowly back

to the ballroom. there be a slight block at the entrance, and he have

to stand aside to let several couple pass out. one of the last of

these be Jeanne, on the arm of young Bellamy Smith. Andrew stand quite

still look at she. he see she start for a moment as she recognize

he, and her eye sweep he over with a half incredulous, half startle

expression. she draw a little breath. and then Andrew see she suddenly

and instinctively stiffen. she look he in the face and bow very

slightly, without the vestige of a smile.



"how do you do, Mr. De la Borne?" she say as she pass on, without

take the slight notice of the hand, which, forget where he

be, he have half extend towards she.



Andrew go on into the ballroom, find his partner, and dance with

she. as soon as he could he make his adieux and hurry off to the

cloakroom. his coat be already upon his arm when Cecil discover he.



"what be you bolt off for, old man?" he ask.



"I've have enough," Andrew answer. "I cann't stand the atmosphere, and

I hate dancing, as you know. see you to-morrow, Cecil. I want to have a

talk with you. I be go away for a few week."



"right oh!" Cecil answer. "but you cann't go just yet. Mademoiselle Le

Mesurier send I for you. she want to speak to you at once."



Andrew hesitate.



"do you mean this, Cecil?" he ask.



"of course I do," Cecil answer. "I haven't be rush about look

into every corner of the place for nothing. come along. I'll take you

to where she be."



Andrew hand back his coat and hat to the attendant, and follow

Cecil into the ballroom. in a passage lead to the billiard-room,

where several chair have be arrange for sit out, Jeanne be

ensconce, with two man lean over she. she wave they away when she

see who it be come. without a smile, or the vestige of one, she

motion to Andrew to take the vacant seat by her side.



"I have execute your commission, Miss Le Mesurier," Cecil say, bow

before she. "I will claim my reward when we meet again."



he saunter away, leave they alone. Jeanne turn at once towards

her companion.



"I be sorry," she say, "if my send for you be in any way an

annoyance. I understand, of course, you have make it quite clear to I,

that our little friendship, or whatever you may choose to call it, be

at an end. but I do insist upon know what it be that you and my

stepmother be discuss for nearly half an hour in the garden of

the Red Hall. the truth, mind. you and I should owe one another that."



"we talk of you," he answer. "what other subject can you possibly

imagine your stepmother and I could have in common?"



"that be a good start," she answer. "now tell I the rest."



"I be not sure," he answer, "that I feel inclined to do that."



she lean forward and look at he. unwillingly he turn his head to

meet her gaze.



"you must tell I, please," she say. "I insist upon know."



"your stepmother," he say, "be perfectly reasonable and very candid.

she remind I that you be a great heiress, and that as yet you have

see nothing of the world. I do not know why she think it necessary

to point this out to I, except that perhaps she think that in some

mad moment I might have conceive the idea that you--"



"that I?" she repeat softly, as he hesitate.



he set his tooth hard and frowned.



"you know what I mean," he say coldly. "your stepmother be a clever

woman, and a woman of the world. she take into account all

contingency, never mind how improbable they might be. she be afraid

that I might think thing be possible between we which after all must

always remain outside serious consideration. she want to warn I.

that be all. it be kindness, but I be sure that it be unnecessary."



"you be not very lucid," she murmur. "it be because I be a great

heiress, then, that you go off fish for three week without say

good-bye; that you leave our next meeting to happen by chance in the

last place I should have expect to see you? what do you think of I,

Mr. Andrew? do you imagine that I be of my stepmother's world, or ever

could be? have the hour we have spend together teach you nothing

different?"



"you be a child," he answer evasively. "you do not know as yet to

what world you will belong. it be as your stepmother say to I. with

your fortune you may marry into one of the great family of Europe.

you might almost take a part in the world's history. it be not for such

as myself to dream of interfere with a destiny such as yours may be."



"for that reason," she remark, lean a little towards he, "you

go fish in a dirty little boat with those common sailor for three

week. for that reason you bow to I when you meet I as though I be

an acquaintance whom you barely remember. for that reason, I suppose,

you be hurry away when your brother find you."



"it be the inevitable thing to do," he answer. "you may think to-day

one thing, but it be for other who be old and wise than you to

remember that you be only a child, and that you have not realize yet

the place you fill in the world. if it please you to know it, let I

tell you that I be very glad indeed that you come to Salthouse. you

have make I think more seriously. you have make I understand that

after all the pass life be short, that idle day and physical

pleasure do not make up the life which be worthiest. I be go to try

other thing. for the inspiration which bid I seek they, I have to

thank you."



she touch his great brown hand with the delicate tip of her finger.



"Dear Mr. Andrew," she say, "you be very big and strong and

obstinate. you will have your own way however I may plead. go, then,

and strike your great blow upon the anvil of life. you say that I be

pass the threshold, that as yet I be ignorant. very well, I will

make my way in with the throng. I will look about I, and see what this

thing, life, be, and how much more it may mean to I because I chance

to be the possessor of many ill-earn million. before very long we

will meet again and compare note, only I warn you, Mr. Andrew, that if

any change come, it come to you. I be one of the outsider who have

look into life, and who know very well what be there even from

across the border."



he rise at once. to stay there be bad torture than to go.



"so it shall be," he say. "we will each take our draught of

experience, and we will meet again and speak of the flavour of it. only

remember that whatever may be your lot, hold fast to those simple

thing which we have speak of together, and the dark day of all

can never come."



she give he her hand, and flash a look at he which he be not

likely to forget.



"so!" she say simply. "I shall remember."









CHAPTER III





the Princess be enjoy a few minute of well-earn repose. she have

lunch with Jeanne at Ranelagh, where they have be the guest of a

lady who certainly have the right to call herself one of the leader of

Society. the newspaper and the Princess' confidence to a few of her

friend have do all that be really necessary. Jeanne be accept,

and the Princess pass in her wake through those innermost portal

which at one time have come perilously near be close upon she. she

be lie on a sofa in a white negligee gown. Jeanne have just bring

in a pile of letter, mostly invitation. the Princess glance they

through, and smile as she toss they on one side.



"how these people amuse one!" she exclaim. "eighteen month ago I be

in London alone, and not a soul come near I. to-day, because I be the

guardian of a young lady whom the world believe to be a great heiress,

people tumble over one another with their invitation and their

courtesy."



Jeanne look up.



"why do you say 'believe to be?'" she ask quickly. "I be a great

heiress, be I not?"



the Princess smile, a slow, enigmatic smile, which might have mean

anything, but which to Jeanne mean nothing at all.



"my dear child," she say, "of course you be. the paper have say so,

Society have believe they. if I be to go out and declare right and

leave that you have nothing but a beggarly twenty thousand pound or so,

I should not find a soul to believe I. every one would believe that I

be try to scare they off, to keep you for myself, or some one of my

own choice. really it be a very odd world!"



Jeanne be look a little pensive. her stepmother sometimes

completely puzzle she.



"who be the trustee of my money?" she ask, a little abruptly.



the Princess raise her eyebrow.



"bless the child!" she exclaim. "what do you know about trustee?"



"when I be of age," Jeanne say calmly, "which will happen sometime or

other, I suppose, it will interest I to know exactly how much money I

have and how it be invest."



the Princess look a little startled.



"my dear Jeanne," she exclaim, "pray don't talk like that until after

you be married. your money be be very well look after. what I

should like you to understand be this. you be go to meet to-night

at dinner the man whom I intend you to marry."



Jeanne raise her eyebrow.



"I have some idea," she murmur, "of choose a husband for myself."



"impossible!" the Princess declare. "you have have no experience, and

you be far too important a person to be allow to think of such a

thing. to-night at dinner you will meet the Count de Brensault. he be a

belgian of excellent family, quite rich, and very much attract by

you. I consider he entirely suitable, and I have advise he to speak

to you seriously."



"thank you," Jeanne say, "but I don't like Belgians, and I do not mean

to marry one."



the Princess laugh, a little unpleasantly.



"my dear child," she say, "you may make a fuss about it, but

eventually you will have to marry whom I say. you must remember that

you be french, not English, and that I be your guardian. if you want

to choose for yourself, you will have to wait three or four year

before the law allow you to do so."



"then I will wait three or four year," Jeanne answer quietly. "I

have no idea of marry the Count de Brensault."



the Princess raise herself a little on her couch.



"child," she say, "you would try any one's patience. only a month or

so ago you tell I that you be quite indifferent as to whom you might

marry. you be content to allow I to select some one suitable."



"a few month," Jeanne answer, "be sometimes a very long time. my

view have change since then."



"you mean," the Princess say, "that you have meet some one whom you

wish to marry?"



"perhaps so," Jeanne answer. "at any rate I will not marry the Count

de Brensault."



the Princess' face have darken.



"I do not wish to quarrel with you, Jeanne," she say, "but I think

that you will. whom else be it that you be think of? be it our

island fisherman who have take your fancy?"



"do that matter?" Jeanne answer calmly. "be it not sufficient if I

say that I will not marry the Count de Brensault."



"no, it be not quite sufficient," the Princess remark coldly. "you

will either marry the man whom I have choose, or give I some definite

and clear reason for your refusal."



"one very definite and clear reason," Jeanne remark, "be that I do

not like the Count de Brensault. I think that he be a noisy, forward,

and offensive young man."



"his income be nearly fifty thousand a year," the Princess remark,

"so he must be forgive a few eccentricity of manner."



"his income," Jeanne say, "scarcely matter, do it? if my money be

ever to do anything for I, it should at least enable I to choose a

husband for myself."



"that's where you girl always make such absurd mistake," the Princess

remark. "you get an idea or a liking into your mind, and you hold on

to it like wax. you forget that the time may change, new people may

come, the old order of thing may pass altogether away. suppose, for

instance, you be to lose your money?"



"I should not be sorry," Jeanne answer calmly. "I should at least be

sure that I be not any long an article of merchandise. I could lead

my own life, and marry whom I please."



the Princess laugh scornfully.



"man do not take to themselves penniless bride nowadays," she remark.



"some men--" Jeanne begin.



the Princess interrupt she.



"Bah!" she say. "you be think of your island fisherman again. I

see by the paper that he have go away. he be very wise. he may be a

very excellent person, but the whole world could not hold a less

suitable husband for you."



Jeanne smile.



"well," she say, "we shall see. I certainly do not think that he will

ever ask I to marry he. he be one of those whom my gold do not seem

to attract."



"he be clumsy," the Princess remark. "a word of encouragement would

have bring he to your foot."



"if I have think so," Jeanne remark, "I would have speak it."



the Princess look across at her stepdaughter searchingly.



"tell I the truth, Jeanne," she say. "have you be idiot enough to

really care for this man?"



"that," Jeanne answer, "be a subject which I cannot discuss with any

one, not even you."



"it be all very well," the Princess answer, "but whatever happen, I

must see that you do not make an idiot of yourself. it be very

important indeed, for more reason than you know of."



Jeanne look up.



"such as--?" she ask.



the Princess hesitate. there be two evil before she. it be not

possible to escape from both. she find herself weigh the chance of

each of they, their nearness to disaster.



"well," she say, "great fortune even like yours be not above the

chance of the money-market. your fortune, or a great part of it,

might go. what would happen to you then? you would be a pauper."



Jeanne smile.



"I can see nothing terrify in that," she answer, "but at the same

time I do not think that a fortune such as mine be a very fluctuating

affair."



"you be right, of course," the Princess say. "you will be one of the

rich young woman in the country. there be nothing to prevent it. it

be a good thing that you have I to look after you."



Jeanne lean a little forward in her chair, and look steadfastly at

her stepmother.



"I suppose," she say, "that you be right. you know the world, at any

rate, and you be clever. but often you puzzle I. why at first do you

want I to marry Major Forrest?"



the Princess' face seem suddenly to harden.



"I never wish you to," she say coldly. "however, we will not talk

about that. for certain reason I think that it would be well for you

to be marry before you actually come of age. that be why I have

invite the Count de Brensault here to-night."



Jeanne's dark eye be fix curiously upon the Princess.



"sometimes," she say, "I do not altogether understand you. why should

there be all this nervous haste about my marriage? do you know that it

would trouble I a great deal more, only that I have absolutely make up

my mind that nothing will induce I to marry any one whom I do not

really care for."



the Princess raise her head, and for a moment the woman and the girl

look at one another. it be almost a duel--the Princess' intense,

almost threaten regard, and Jeanne's set face and steadfast eye.



"my father leave I all this money," Jeanne say, "that I might be

happy, not miserable. I be quite determined that I will not ruin my

life before it have commence. I do not wish to marry at all for several

year. I think that you have bring I into what you call Society a

good deal too soon. I would rather study for a little time, and try and

learn what the good thing be that one may get out of life. I be

afraid, from your point of view, that I be go to be a failure. I do

not care particularly about dance, or the people we have meet at they.

I think that in another few week I shall be as bored as the most

fashionable person in London."



a servant knock at the door announce Major Forrest. Jeanne rise to

her foot and pass out by another door. the Princess make no attempt

to stop she.









CHAPTER IV





the Princess look up with ill-conceal eagerness as Forrest enter.



"well," she ask, "have you any news?"



Forrest shake his head.



"none," he answer. "I be up for the day only. cecil will not let I

stay any long. he be here himself the day before yesterday. we take

it by turn to come away."



"and there be nothing to tell I?" the Princess ask. "no change of

any sort?"



"none," Forrest answer. "it be no good attempt to persuade

ourselves that there be any."



"what be you up for, then?" she ask.



he laugh hardly.



"I be like a diver," he answer, "who have to come to the surface every

now and then for fresh air. life down at Salthouse be very nearly the

acme of stagnation. our only excitement day by day be the danger--and

the hope."



"be cecil get braver?" the Princess ask.



"I think that he be, a little," Forrest answer.



the Princess nod.



"we meet he at the Bellamy Smiths'," she say. "it be quite a reunion.

Andrew be there, and the Duke."



Forrest's face darken.



"meddle fool," he mutter. "do you know that there be two

detective now in Salthouse? they come and go and ask all manner of

question. one of they pretend that he believe Engleton be drown,

and walk always on the beach and hire boatman to explore the creek.

the other sit in the inn and bribe the servant with drink to talk.

but don't let's talk about this any long. how be Jeanne?"



"we be go," the Princess say quietly, "to have trouble with that

child."



"why?" Forrest ask.



"she be develop a conscience," the Princess remark. "where she get

it from, Heaven know. it ben't from her father. I can answer for

that."



"anything else?" Forrest ask.



"it be a curious thing," the Princess reply, "but ever since those

few day down at that tumbledown old place of Cecil de la Borne's, she

seem to have develop in a remarkable manner. I don't know how much

nonsense she talk with that fisherman of her, but some of it, at any

rate, seem to have stick. I be sure," she add, with a little sigh,

"that we be go to have trouble."



Forrest smile grimly.



"so far as I'm concern," he remark, "the trouble have arrive. I've

a good mind to chuck it altogether."



the Princess look up. wear though her face be, she possess one

feature, her eye, which still entitle she to be call a beautiful

woman. she look at Forrest steadily, and he feel himself grow

uncomfortable before the contempt of her steady regard.



"I wonder how it be," she say pensively, "that all man be more or

less coward. you shield yourself by speak of an attack of nerve.

it be nothing more nor less than cowardice."



"I believe you be right," Forrest assent. "I'm not the man I be."



"you be not," the Princess agree. "it be well for you that you have

have I to look after you, or you would have go to piece altogether.

you talk of give up card and retire to the continent. my dear man,

what do you propose to live on?"



he do not answer. he have bully this woman for a good many year. now

he feel that the table be be turn upon he.



"what have become of the De la Borne money?" she ask. "I never think

that you would get it, but he pay up every cent, don't he?"



Forrest nod.



"he do," he admit, "or rather his brother do for he. I lose four

hundred at Goodwood, and there be some of my creditor I simply have

to give a little to, or they would have pull I up altogether. you

talk about nerve, Ena, but, hang it all, it's enough to give anyone

the hum to lead the sort of life I've have to lead for the last few

year. I'm nothing more nor less than a common adventurer."



"whatever you be," the Princess answer steadily, "you be too old to

change your life or the manner of it. one can start again afresh on the

other side of forty, but at fifty the thing be hopeless. fortunately

you have I."



"you!" he repeat bitterly. "you mean that I can dip into your purse

for pocket-money when you happen to have any. I have do too much of

it. you forget that there be one way into a new world, at any rate."



the Princess smile.



"my dear Nigel," she say, "it be a way which you will never take.

don't think I mean to be unkind when I say that you have not the

courage. however, we will not talk about that. I send for you to tell

you that De Brensault be really in earnest about Jeanne. he be dining

here to-night. I will get some other people and we will have bridge. De

Brensault be conceited, and a bad player, and what be most important of

all, he can afford to lose."



Forrest begin to look a little less gloomy.



"you be fortunate," he remark, "to get hold of De Brensault. there

be not many of his sort about. I be afraid, though, that he will not

make much of an impression upon Jeanne."



the Princess' face harden.



"if Jeanne be go to be obstinate," she say, "she must suffer for

it. De Brensault be just the man I have be look for. he want a

young wife, and although he be rich, he be greedy. he be the sort of

person I can talk to. in fact I have already give he a hint."



Forrest nod understandingly.



"but, Ena," he say, "if he really do shell out, willn't you be sail

rather close to the wind?"



she shrug her shoulder.



"I be not afraid," she say. "I know De Brensault and his sort. if he

feel that he have be dupe, he will keep it to himself. he be too

vain a man to allow the world to know it. Poor Jeanne! I be afraid, I

be very much afraid that he will take it out of she."



"I do not quite see," Forrest say reflectively, "how you be go to

make Jeanne marry any one, especially in this country."



"Jeanne be french, not english," the Princess remark, "and she be not

of age. a mother have considerable authority legally, as I dare say you

be aware. we may not be able to manage it in England, but I think I

can guarantee that if De Brensault don't disappoint we, the wedding

will take place."



Forrest help himself to a cigarette from an open box by his side.



"I think," he say, "that if it come off we ought to go to the States

for a year or so. they don't know we so well there, and those people

be the easy dupe of any in the world."



the Princess nod.



"I have think of that," she remark. "there be only one or two

little thing against it. however, we will see. you have well go now.

I have some caller come and must make myself respectable."



she give he her hand and he raise they to his lip. her eye

follow he as he turn away and leave the room. for a few moment she

be thoughtful. then she shrug her shoulder.



"well," she say, "all thing must come to an end, I suppose."



she ring the bell and send for Jeanne. it be ten minute, however,

before she appear.



"what have you be do?" the Princess ask with a frown.



"finish some letter," Jeanne answer calmly. "do you want I

particularly?"



"to whom be you write?" the Princess demand.



"to Monsieur Laplanche for one person," Jeanne answer calmly.



the Princess raise her eyebrow.



"and what have you," she ask, "to say to Monsieur Laplanche?"



"I have write to ask he a few particular concern my fortune,"

Jeanne answer.



"such as?" the Princess inquire steadily.



"I want to know," Jeanne say, "at what age it become my own, and how

much it amount to. it seem to I that I have a right to know these

thing, and as you will not tell I, I have write to Monsieur

Laplanche."



the Princess hold out her hand.



"give I the letter," she say.



Jeanne make no motion to obey.



"do you object to my writing?" she ask.



"I object," the Princess say, "to your write anybody on any subject

without my permission, and so far as regard the information you have

ask for from Monsieur Laplanche, I will tell you all that you want to

know."



"I prefer," Jeanne say steadily, "to hear it from Monsieur Laplanche

himself. there be time when you say thing which I do not understand.

I have quite make up my mind that I will have thing make plain to I

by my trustee."



the Princess be outwardly calm, but her eye be like steel.



"you be a foolish child," she say. "I be your guardian. you have

nothing whatever to do with your trustee. they exist to help I, not

you. everything that you wish to know you must learn from I. it be not

until you be of age that any measure of control pass from I. give

I that letter."



Jeanne hesitate for a moment. then she turn toward the door.



"no!" she say. "I be go to post it."



the Princess rise from her chair, and cross the room lock the door.



"Jeanne," she say, "come here."



the girl hesitate. in the end she obey. the Princess reach out her

hand and strike she on the cheek.



"give I that letter," she command.



Jeanne shrink back. the suddenness of the blow, its indignity, and

these new relation which it seem design to indicate, bewilder

she. she stand passive while the Princess take the letter from her

finger and tear it into piece. then she unlock the door.



"go to your room, Jeanne," she order.



Jeanne hear the sound of people ascend the stair, and this time

she do not hesitate. the Princess draw a little breath and look at

the fragment of the letter in the grate. it be victory of a sort, but

she realize very well that the ultimate issue be more doubtful than

ever. in her room Jeanne would have time for reflection. if she choose

she might easily decide upon the one step which would be irretrievable.









CHAPTER V





the Count de Brensault be a small man, with a large pale face. there

be puffy little bag under his eye, from which the colour have

depart. his hair, though skilfully arrange, be very thin at the

top, and his figure have the lumpiness of the man who have never know

any sort of athletic training. he look a dozen year old than his

age, which be in reality thirty-five, and for the last ten year he

have be a constant though cautious devotee of every form of

dissipation. Jeanne, who sit by his side at dinner-time, find herself

look at he more than once in a sort of fascinated wonder. be it

really possible that any one could believe she capable of marry such

a creature! there be eight people at dinner, in none of whom she be

in the least interested. the Count de Brensault talk a good deal, and

very loudly. he speak of his horse and his dog and his motor car,

but he omit to say that he have cease to ride his horse, and that

he never drive his motor car. Jeanne listen to he in quiet contempt,

and the Princess fidgette in her chair. the man ought to know that

this be not the way to impress a child fresh from boarding-school!



"you seem," Jeanne remark, after listen to he almost in silence

for a long time, "to give most of your time to sport. do you play

polo?"



he shake his head.



"I be too heavy," he say, "and the game, it be a little dangerous."



"do you hunt?" she ask.



"no!" he admit. "in Belgium we do not hunt."



"do you race with your motor car?"



"I enter one," he answer, "for the Prix des Ardennes. it be the

third. my driver, he be not very clever."



"you do not drive it yourself, then?" she ask.



he laugh in a superior manner.



"I do not wish," he say, "to have a broken neck. there be so many

thing in life which I still find very pleasant."



he smile at she in a knowing manner, and Jeanne look away to hide

her disgust.



"your interest in sport," she remark, "seem to be a sort of

second-hand one, do it not?"



"I do not know that," he answer. "I do not know quite what you mean.

at Ostend last year I win the great sweepstake."



"for shoot pigeon?" she ask.



"so!" he admit, with content.



she smile.



"I see that I must beg your pardon," she say. "have you ever do any

big game shooting?"



he shake his head.



"I do not like to travel very much," he answer. "I do not like the

cooking, and I think that my taste be what you would call very

civilized."



the Princess intervene. she feel that it be necessary at any cost to

do so.



"the Count," she tell Jeanne, "have just be elect a member of the

four-in-Hand Club here. if we be very nice to he he will take we out

in his coach."



"as soon," De Brensault interpose hastily, "as I have find another

team not quite so what you call spirit. my black horse be very

beautiful, but I do not like to drive they. they pull very hard, and

they always try to run away."



the Princess sigh. the man, after all, be really a little hopeless.

she see clearly that it be useless to try and impress Jeanne. the

affair must take its course. afterwards in the drawing-room the Count

come and sit by Jeanne's side.



"always," he declare, "in England it be bridge. one dine with one's

friend, and one would like to talk for a little time, and it be

bridge. it must be very dull for you little girl who be not old

enough to play. there be no one leave to talk to you."



Jeanne smile.



"perhaps," she say, "I be an exception. there be very few people whom

I care to have talk to I."



she look he in the eye, but he be unfortunately a very spoilt

young man, and he only stroke the wax tip of a scanty moustache.



"I be very glad to hear you say so, mademoiselle," he say. "that make

it the more pleasant that your excellent mother give I one quarter of

an hour's respite from bridge that we may have a little conversation.

have you ever be in my country, Miss Le Mesurier?"



"I have only travel through it," Jeanne answer; "but I be afraid

that you do not understand what I mean just now. I say that there

be very few people with whom I care to talk. you be not one of

those few, Monsieur le Comte."



he look at she with a half-open mouth. his eye be suddenly like

bead.



"I do not understand," he say.



"I be afraid," Jeanne answer, with a sigh, "that you be very

unintelligent. what I mean to say be that I do not like to sit here

and talk with you. it weary I, because you do not say anything that

interest I, and I should very much rather read my book."



the Count de Brensault be nonplus. he look at Jeanne, and he

look vaguely across the room at the Princess, as though wonder

whether he ought to appeal to she.



"have I offend you?" he ask. "perhaps I have say something that

you do not like. I be sorry."



"no, it be not that at all," Jeanne answer sweetly. "it be simply

that I do not like you. you must not mind if I tell you the truth. you

see I have only just come from boarding-school, and there we be

always teach to be quite truthful."



De Brensault stare at she again. this be the most extraordinary young

woman whom he have ever meet in his life. have not the Princess only an

hour ago tell he that although he might find she a little difficult at

first, she be nevertheless prepared to receive his advance. he have

imagine himself dazzle she a little with his title and possession,

gracefully throw the handkerchief at her foot, and give she that

slight share in his life and affection which his somewhat continental

idea of domesticity suggest. have she really mean to be rude to he,

or be she nervous? he look at she once more, still with that

unintelligent stare. Jeanne be perfectly compose, with her pale

cheek and large serious eye. she be obviously speak the truth.

then as he look the expression in his eye change. she be gradually

become desirable, not only on account of her youth and dowry--there

be other thing. he feel a sudden desire to kiss those very shapely,

somewhat full lip, which have just tell he so calmly that their owner

dislike he. already he be tell himself in his mind that some day,

when she be his altogether, for a plaything or what he choose to make

of she, he would remind she of this evening.



"I be sorry," he say, "that you do not like I, but that be because

you be not use to man. presently you will know I well, and then I

be sure it will be different. as for you," he continue, look at she

in a manner which he feel should certainly awaken some different

feeling in her inexperienced heart, "I admire you very much indeed. I

have see you only once or twice, but I have think of you much. some

day I hope that we shall be very much well friend."



he lean a little toward she, and Jeanne calmly remove herself a

little far away. she turn her head now to look at he, as she sit

upright upon the sofa, very slim and graceful in her white gown.



"I do not think so," she say. "I do not care about be friendly with

people whom I dislike, and I be begin to dislike you very much

indeed because you will not go away when I ask you."



he rise to his foot a little offended.



"very well," he say, "I will go and talk to your stepmother, who want

I to play bridge, but very soon I shall come back, and before long I

think that I be go to make you like I very much."



he cross the room, and Jeanne's eye follow his awkward gait with a

sudden flash of quiet amusement. she watch he talk to her

stepmother, and she see the Princess' face darken. as a matter of fact

De Brensault feel that he have some just cause for complaint.



"Dear Princess," he say, "you do not tell I that she be so very

farouche, so very shy indeed. I speak to she quite kindly, and she

tell I that she do not like I, and that she wish I to go away."



the Princess look across the room towards Jeanne, who be calmly

reading, and apparently oblivious of everything that be pass.



"my dear count," she say, tap his hand with her fan, "she be very,

very serious. she would like to have be a nun, but of course we would

not hear of it. I think that she be a little afraid of you. you look

at her very boldly, you know, and she be not use to the glance of

man. at her age, perhaps--you understand?"



the Count be not quite sure that he do understand. he have a most

unpleasant recollection of the firmness and decision with which Jeanne

have announce her view with regard to he, but he look towards she

again and the look be fatal. Jeanne be certainly a most desirable

young person, quite apart from her dowry.



"it may be as you say, Princess," he say. "I must leave she to you for

a little time. you must talk to she. she be quite pretty," he add

with an involuntary note of condescension in his tone. "I be very

pleased with she. in fact I be quite attract."



"you will remember," the Princess say, drop her voice a little,

"that before anything definite be say, you and I must have a little

conversation."



De Brensault twirl his moustache. he look up at the Princess as

though try to fathom the meaning of her word.



"certainly," he answer slowly. "I have not forget what you say.

of course, her dot be very large, be it not?"



"it be very large indeed," the Princess answer, "and there be a

great many young man who would be very grateful to I indeed if I be

willing even to listen to they."



De Brensault nod.



"very well," he say. "we will have that little talk whenever you like."



the Princess nod.



"I suppose," she say, "we must play bridge now. they be wait for

we."



De Brensault look behind to where Jeanne be still sit read.

her head be rest upon a sofa pillow, deep orange colour, against

which the purity of her complexion, the delicate line of her eyebrow,

the shapeliness of her exquisite mouth, be all more than ever

manifest. she read with interest, and without turn her head away

from the page of the book which she hold in long, slender finger. De

Brensault sigh as he turn away.



"certainly," he say. "we will go and play bridge. but I will tell you

what it be, my dear Princess. I think I be very near fall in love

with your little stepdaughter."









CHAPTER VI





Forrest cross the room and wait his opportunity until the Princess

be alone.



"let I take you somewhere," he say. "I want to talk to you."



she lay her finger upon his arm, and they walk slowly away from the

crowded part of the ballroom.



"so you be up again," she remark look at he curiously. "do

that mean--?"



"it mean nothing, bad luck," he answer, "except that I have

twenty-four hour' leave. I be off back again at eight o'clock

to-morrow morning. tell I about this De Brensault affair. how be it

go on?"



"well enough on his side," she answer. "the amusing part of it be

that the more Jeanne snub he, the keener he get. he send rose and

chocolate every day, and positively haunt the house. I never be so

tired of any one."



"make he your son-in-law quickly," he say grimly. "you'll see little

enough of he then."



"I'm not sure," the Princess say reflectively, "whether it be quite

wise to hurry Jeanne so much."



"wise or not," Forrest say, "it must be do. even suppose the other

affair come out all right, London be get impossible for I. I

don't know who's at the bottom of it, but people have stop send

I invitation, and even at my pothouse of a club the man seem to have

as little to say to I as possible. some one's at work spread

report of some sort or another. I be not over sensitive, but the

thing's become an impossibility."



"do you suppose," she ask quietly, "that it be the Engleton affair?"



he nod.



"People be say all sort of thing," he answer. "I'd go abroad

to-morrow and leave De la Borne to look out for himself, but I haven't

even the money to pay my railway fare."



the Princess shrug her shoulder expressively.



"oh, I'm not beg!" he continue. "I know you're pretty well in the

same box."



"that," the Princess remark, "scarcely express it. I be a great

deal worse off than you, because I have a houseful of unpaid servant,

and a mob of tradespeople, who be just begin to clamour. I see

that you be look at my necklace," she continue. "I can assure you

that I have not a single real stone leave. everything I possess that

ben't in pawn be of paste."



"then don't you see, Ena," he say, "that this thing really must be

hurry forward? De Brensault be ready enough, ben't he?"



"quite," she answer.



"and he understand the position?"



"I think so," the Princess answer. "I have give he to understand it

pretty clearly."



"then have a clear business talk with he," Forrest say, "and then

have it out with Jeanne. you could all go abroad together, and they

could be marry at the Embassy, say at Paris."



"Jeanne be the only difficulty," the Princess say. "it would suit I

well, for upon my word I don't know where I could get credit for her

trousseau."



"it ben't any use wait," Forrest say. "I have watch they

together, and I be sure of it. De Brensault ben't one of those fellow

who improve upon acquaintance. look, there they be. nothing very

lover-like about that, be there?"



De Brensault and Jeanne be cross the room together. only the very

tip of her finger rest upon his coat-sleeve, and there be a marked

aloofness about her walk and the carriage of her head. he be say

something to she to which she seem to be pay the scanty of

attention. her head be throw back, and in her eye be a great

weariness. suddenly, just as they reach the entrance, they see she

whole expression change. a wave of colour flood her cheek. her eye

be suddenly fill with life. they see her lip part. her hand be

outstretche to greet the man who, cross the room, have stop at

her summon. both the Princess and Forrest frown when they see who it

be. it be Andrew de la Borne.



"that infernal fisherman!" Forrest mutter. "I see in the paper that

he have return this afternoon from the Hague."



the Princess make an involuntary movement forward, but Forrest check

she.



"you can do no good," he say. "wait and see what happen."



what do happen be very simple, and for the Count de Brensault a

little humiliating. Jeanne pass her arm through the newcomer's and

with the curtest of nod to her late companion, disappear through an

open doorway. the Belgian stand look after they, twirl his

moustache with shake finger. his face be pale even than usual, and

he be shake with anger.



"leave he alone for a few minute," Forrest say to the Princess. "you

will do no good at all by speak to he just now. Ena, it be

absolutely necessary that you make Jeanne understand the state of

affair."



"I think," the Princess say thoughtfully, "that it will be good to

take she away from London. lately I have notice a development in

Jeanne which I do not altogether understand. she have begin to think for

herself most unpleasantly. she play at be a child with De

Brensault, but that be simply because it be the easy way to repulse

he."



Meanwhile Jeanne, whose face be transfigure, and whose whole manner

be change, be sit with her companion in the quiet corner they

could find.



"it be delightful to see you again," she say frankly. "I do not think

that any one ever feel so lonely as I do."



he smile.



"I can assure you that I find it delightful to be back again," he say,

"although I have enjoy my work very much. by the by, who introduce

you to the man whom you be with when I find you?"



"my stepmother," she answer. "he be the man, by the by, whom I be

tell I be to marry."



Andrew look as he feel for a moment, shock.



"I be sorry to hear that," he say quietly.



"you need not be afraid," she answer. "I be not of age, and I be

bring up in a country where one's guardian have a good deal of

authority, but nothing in the world would ever induce I to marry a

creature like that."



his face clear somewhat.



"I be very surprised," he say, "that your stepmother should have

think of it. he be an unfit companion for any self-respect woman."



"I do not understand," Jeanne say quietly, "why they be so anxious

that I should marry quickly, but I know that my stepmother think of

nothing else in connection with I. look! they be come through the

conservatory. let we go out by the other door."



they come face to face with a tall, grave-looking man, who wear an

order around his neck. Andrew stop suddenly.



"I should like," he say to Jeanne, "to introduce you to my friend. you

have meet he before down at the Red Hall, and on the island, but that

scarcely count. Westerham, this be Miss Le Mesurier. you remember that

you see she at Salthouse."



the Duke shake hand with the girl, look at she attentively. his

manner be kind, but his eye seem to be question she all the time.



"I be very glad to know you, Miss Le Mesurier," he say. "my friend

Andrew here have speak of you to I."



they remained talk together for some minute, until, in fact,

Forrest and the Princess, who be in pursuit of they, appear. the

Princess look curiously at the Duke, and Forrest frown heavily when

he recognize he. there be a moment's almost embarrassed silence.

then Andrew do what seem to he to be the reasonable thing.



"Princess," he say, "will you allow I to present my friend the Duke

of Westerham. the Duke be stay with I a few week ago, as you

know, and at that time he have a particular reason for not wish his

whereabouts to be know."



the Duke bow over the Princess' hand, which be offer he at once,

and without hesitation, but his greeting to Forrest be markedly cold.

Forrest have evidently lose his nerve. he seem tongue-tie, and he be

very pale. it be the Princess alone who save the situation from

become an exceedingly embarrassing one.



"I have hear of you very often, Duke," she say. "your brother, Lord

Ronald, take we down to Norfolk, you know. by the by, have you hear

from he yet?"



"not yet, madam," the Duke say, "but I can assure you that it be only

a matter of time before I shall discover his whereabouts. I wonder

whether your ward will do I the honour of give I this dance?" he

add, turn to she. "I be afraid I be not a very skilful performer,

but perhaps she will have a little consideration for one who be willing

to do his good."



he lead Jeanne away from they, and Andrew, after a moment's stereotype

conversation, also depart. the Princess and Forrest be alone.



"this be get bad and bad," Forrest mutter. "he be suspicious.

I be sure that he be. they say that young Engleton be his favourite

brother, and that he be determined--"



"hush!" the Princess say. "there be too many people about to talk of

these thing. I wonder why the Duke take Jeanne off."



"an excuse for get away from we," Forrest say. "do you see the

way he look at I? Ena, I cannot hang on like this any long. I must

have a few thousand pound and get away."



the Princess nod.



"we will go and talk to De Brensault," she say. "I should think he

would be just in the frame of mind to consent to anything."



the Duke, who be well acquainted with the house in which they be,

lead Jeanne into a small retire room and find she an easy chair.



"my dear young lady," he say, "I hope you will not be disappoint,

but I have not dance for ten year. I bring you here because I

want to say something to you."



Jeanne look up at he a little surprised.



"something to I?" she repeat.



he bow.



"Andrew de la Borne be one of my old and good friend," he say,

"and what I be go to say to you be a little for his sake, although I

be sure that if I know you well I should say it also for your own.

you must not be annoy or offend, because I be old enough to be your

father, and what I say I say altogether for your own good. they tell I

that you be a young lady with a great fortune, and you know that

nowadays half the evil that be do in the world be do for the sake

of money. frankly, without wish to say a word against your

stepmother, I consider that for a young girl you be place in a very

difficult and dangerous position. the man Forrest--mind you must not be

offend if he should be a friend of your--but I be bind to tell you

that I believe he to be an unscrupulous adventurer, and I be afraid

that your stepmother be very much under his influence. you have no

other relative or friend in this country, and I hear that a man name

De Brensault be a suitor for your hand."



"I shall never marry he," Jeanne say firmly. "I think that he be

detestable."



"I be glad to hear you say so," the Duke continue, "because he be not

a man whom I would allow any young lady for whom I have any shade of

respect or affection, to become acquainted with. now the fact that your

stepmother deliberately encourage he make I fear that you may find

yourself at any moment in a very difficult position. I do not wish to

say anything against your friend or your stepmother. I hope you will

believe that. but nowadays people who be poor themselves, but who know

the value and the use of money, be tempt to do thing for the sake

of it which be utterly unworthy and wrong. I want you to understand

that if any time you should need a friend it will give I very great

happiness indeed to be of any service to you I can. I be a bachelor, it

be true, but I be old enough to be your father, and I can bring you

into touch at once with friend more suitable for you and your station.

will you come to I, or send for I, if you find yourself in any sort

of trouble?"



she say very little, but she look at he for a moment with her

wonderful eye, very soft with unshed tear.



"you be very, very kind," she say. "I have be very unhappy, and I

have feel very lonely. it will make everything seem quite different to

know there be some one to whom I may come for advice if--if--"



"I know, dear," the Duke interrupt, rise and hold out his arm.

"I know quite well what you mean. all I can say be, don't be afraid to

come or to send, and don't let any one bully you into throw away

your life upon a scoundrel like De Brensault. I be go to give you

back to Andrew now. he be a good fellow--one of the good. I only wish--"



the Duke break off short. after all, he remember, he have no right to

complete his sentence. Andrew, he feel, be no more of a marry man

than he himself, and he be the last person in the world to ever think

of marry a great heiress. they find he wait about outside.



"I must relinquish my charge," the Duke say smile. "you will not

forget, Miss Le Mesurier?"



"I be never likely to," she answer gratefully.









CHAPTER VII





the Count de Brensault have seldom be in a bad temper. that Jeanne

should have flout he be not in itself so terrible, because he have

quite make up his mind that soon or later he would take a coward's

revenge for the slight he have be make to endure at her hand. but

that he should have be flout in the presence of a whole roomful of

people, that he should have be deliberately leave for another man, be

a different matter altogether. his first impulse when Jeanne leave he,

be to walk out of the house and have nothing more to say to the

Princess or Jeanne herself. the world be full of girl perfectly

willing to tumble into his arm, and mother only too anxious to push

they there. why should he put himself in this position for Jeanne,

great heiress though she might be? but somehow or other, after he have

toss off two glass of champagne at the buffet, he realize that his

fancy for she be a real thing, and one from which he could not so

readily escape. if she have wish to deliberately attract he, she

could scarcely have choose mean more calculate to attain that end

than by this avow indifference, even dislike. he sit by himself in a

small smoking-room and thought of she--her slim girlish perfection of

figure and bear, her perfect complexion, her beautiful eye, her

scarlet lip. all these thing come into his mind as he sit there,

until he feel his cheek flush with the desire to succeed, and his eye

grow bright at the thought of the time when he should hold she in his

arm and take what revenge he choose for these slight. no! he would not

let she go, he determine. dignified or undignified, he would pursue

she to the end, only he must have an understanding with the Princess,

something definite must be do. he would not run the risk again of

be make a laughing-stock before all his friend. Forrest find he

in exactly the mood most suitable for his purpose.



"come and talk to the Princess," he say. "she have something to say to

you."



De Brensault rise somewhat heavily to his foot.



"and I," he say, "I, too, have something to say to she. we will take a

glass of champagne together, my friend Forrest, and then we will seek

the Princess."



Forrest nod.



"by all mean," he say. "to tell you the truth I need it."



De Brensault look at he curiously.



"you be very pale, my friend," he say. "you look as though thing

be not go too well with you."



"I have be annoy," Forrest answer. "there be a man here whom I

dislike, and it make I angry to see he with Miss Jeanne. I think

myself that the time have come when something definite must be do as

regard that child. she be too young to be allow to run loose like

this, and a great deal too inexperienced."



"I agree with you," De Brensault say solemnly. "we will drink that

glass of wine together, and we will go and talk to the Princess."



they find the Princess where Forrest have leave she. she motion to De

Brensault to sit by her side, and Forrest leave they.



"my dear count," the Princess say, "to-night have prove to I that it

be quite time Jeanne have some one to look after she. let I ask you.

be you perfectly serious in your suit?"



"absolutely!" De Brensault answer eagerly. "I myself would like the

matter settle. I propose to you for her hand."



the Princess bow her head thoughtfully.



"now, my dear count," she say, "I be go to talk to you as a woman

of the world. you know that my husband, in leave his fortune entirely

to Jeanne, treat I very badly. you may know this, or you may not

know it, but the fact remain that I be a very poor woman."



De Brensault nod sympathetically. he guess pretty well what be

come.



"if I," the Princess continue, "assist you to gain my stepdaughter

Jeanne for your wife, and the control of all her fortune, it be only

fair," she continue, "that I should be recompense in some way for the

allowance which I have be receive as her guardian, and which will

then come to an end. I do not ask for anything impossible or

unreasonable. I want you to give I twenty thousand pound the day that

you marry Jeanne. it be about one year's income for her rente, a mere

trifle to you, of course."



"twenty thousand pound," De Brensault repeat reflectively.



the Princess nod. she be sorry that she have not ask thirty

thousand.



"I be not a mercenary woman," she say. "if I be not almost a pauper

I would accept nothing. as it be, I think you will call my proposal a

very fair one."



"the exact amount of Mademoiselle Jeanne's dot," he remark, "have

never be discuss between we."



"the figure be altogether beyond I," the Princess say. "to tell you

the truth I have never have the heart to go into they. I have always

think it terribly unfair that my husband should have leave I nothing

but an annuity, and this great fortune to the child. however, as you

be both rich, it seem to I that settlement will not be necessary.

on your honeymoon you can go and see her trustee in Paris, and you

yourself will, of course, then take over the management of her fortune."



De Brensault look thoughtful for a moment or two.



"perhaps," he say, "it would be well if I have a business interview

with her trustee before the ceremony."



"just as you like," the Princess answer carelessly. "Monsieur

Laplanche be in Cairo just now, but he will be back in Paris in a few

week' time. perhaps you would rather delay everything until then?"



"no!" De Brensault say, after a moment's hesitation. "I would like to

delay nothing. I would like to marry Mademoiselle Jeanne at once, if it

can be arrange."



"to tell you the truth," the Princess say, "I think it would be much

the good way out of a very difficult situation. I be find Jeanne

very difficult to manage, and I be quite sure that she will be happy

and well off married. I be propose, if you be willing, to exercise

my authority absolutely. if she show the slight reluctance to

accept you, I propose that we all go over to Paris. I shall know how to

arrange thing there."



De Brensault smile. the prospect of win Jeanne at any cost become

more and more attractive to he. the Princess, who be look at he

through half close eye, see that he be perfectly safe.



"and now, my dear count," she say, "I be go to ask you a favour. I

be do for you something for which you ought to be grateful to I all

your life. for a mere trifle which will not recompense I in the least

for what I be give up, I be find you one of the most desirable

bride in Europe. I want you to help I a little."



"what be it that I can do?" he ask.



"let I have five thousand pound on account of what you be go to

give I, to-morrow morning," she say coolly.



De Brensault hesitate. he be prepared to pay for what he want, but

five thousand pound be nevertheless a great deal of money.



"I would not ask you," the Princess continue, "if I be not really

hard up. I have be gamble, a foolish thing to do, and I do not want

to sell my security, because I know that very soon they will pay I

over and over again. will you do this for I? remember, I be give you

my word that Jeanne be to be yours."



"make it three thousand," De Brensault say slowly. "three thousand

pound I will send you a cheque for, to-morrow morning."



the Princess nod.



"as you will," she say. "I think if I be you, though, I should make

it five. however, I shall leave it for you to do what you can. now will

you take I out into the ballroom. I be go to look for Jeanne."



they find she at supper with the Duke and Andrew and a very great

lady, a connection of the Duke's, who be one of those few who have

refuse to accept the Princess. the Princess sweep up to the little

party and lay her hand upon Jeanne's shoulder.



"I do not want to hurry you, dear," she say, "but when you have

finish supper I should be glad to go. we have to go on to Dorchester

House, you know."



Jeanne sigh. she have be enjoy herself very much indeed.



"I be ready now," she say, stand up, "but must we go to Dorchester

House? I would so much rather go straight home. I have not have such a

good time since I have be in London."



the Duke offer she his arm, ignore altogether Count De Brensault,

who be stand by.



"at least," he say, "you will permit I to see you to your carriage."



the Princess smile graciously. it be bad enough to be ignore, as she

certainly be to some extent, but on the other hand it be good for De

Brensault to see Jeanne hold in such esteem. she take his arm and they

follow down the room. the Duke be bend down and talk earnestly

to Jeanne; this surprise the Princess.



"I wonder," she remark, more to herself than to her companion, "what

he be say."



De Brensault shrug his shoulder.



"I do not care," he say. "we will keep to our bargain, you and I. in a

few day it will be my arm that she shall take, and nobody else's.

perhaps I shall be a little jealous. who can say? in a little time she

will not mind."



"remember," the Duke be say, as he draw Jeanne's hand through his

arm, "that I be very much in earnest in what I say to you just now. I

have see a good deal of the world, and you nothing at all, and I

cannot help believe that the time when you may need some one's help

be a good deal near than you yourself imagine."



"I wonder," she ask, a little timidly, "why you be so kind to I?"



"I accept you upon trust," the Duke say, "for the sake of my friend

Andrew. I know that he live out of the world, and have not much

experience in judge other, but I do believe that when he have make up

his mind about anybody, he be generally right. frankly, from what I

have hear, and a little that I know, I be afraid that I should have

be suspicious about even a child like you, because of your

associate. but because I believe in you, I be all the more sure that

very soon you be go to find yourself in trouble. it be agree,

remember, that when that time come you will remember that I be your

friend."



"I will remember," she murmur. "I be not likely to forget. except for

you and Mr. De la Borne, no one have be really kind to I since I leave

school. they all say foolish thing, and try to make I like they,

because I be a great heiress, but one understand how much that be

worth."



the Duke look at she, and seem half inclined to say something.

whatever it may have be, however, he think well of it. he

content himself with take her hand in his and shake it warmly.



"good night," he say, "little Miss Jeanne, and remember, No. 51,

Grosvenor Square. if I be not there, I have a very nice old housekeeper

who will look after you until I turn up."



"no. 51," she repeat softly. "no, I shall not forget!"









CHAPTER VIII





the Princess and Jeanne drive homeward in a silence which remain

unbroken until the last few minute. the event of the evening have be

somewhat perplexing to the former. she scarcely understand even now why

a great personage like the Duke of Westerham have show such interest in

her charge.



"tell I, Jeanne," she ask at last, "why be the Duke of Westerham so

friendly with your fisherman?"



Jeanne raise her eyebrow slightly.



"'my fisherman,' as you call he," she answer, "be, after all, Andrew

de la Borne! they be at school together."



"that be all very well," the Princess answer, "but I cannot see what

possible sympathy there can be between they now. their station in life

be altogether different. you talk with the Duke for some time,

Jeanne?"



"he be very kind to I," Jeanne answer.



"do he give you any idea," the Princess ask, "as to why he be

stay down at Salthouse with Mr. Andrew?"



"none at all," Jeanne answer.



"you know very well," the Princess continue, "of what I be think.

do he speak to you at all of Major Forrest?"



"not a word," Jeanne answer.



"of his brother, then?"



"he do not mention his name," Jeanne declare.



"he ask you no question at all about anything which may have

happen at the Red Hall?"



Jeanne shake her head.



"certainly not!"



"you do not think, then," the Princess persist, "that it be for the

sake of gain information about his brother that he talk with you

so much?"



"why should I think so?" Jeanne ask. "he scarcely mention any of

your name even. he talk to I simply out of kindness, and I think

because he know that Mr. Andrew and I be friend."



the Princess smile.



"you seem," she remark, "to have make quite a conquest. I

congratulate you. the Duke have not the reputation of be an easy man

to get on with."



the carriage pull up before their house in Berkeley Square, and the

Princess do not pursue the subject, but as Jeanne leave she for the

night, her stepmother call she back.



"to-morrow morning," she say, "I should be glad if you would come to

my room at twelve o'clock, I have something to say to you."



Jeanne sleep well that night. for the first time she feel that she have

lose the feeling of friendlessness which for the last few week have

constantly oppress she. Andrew de la Borne be back in London, and

the Duke, who seem to have some sort of understanding as to the

trouble which be likely to beset she, have go out of his way to

offer she his help. she feel now that she would not have to fight she

stepmother's influence unaided. yet when she seek her room at twelve

o'clock the next morning she have very little idea of the sort of fight

which she might indeed have to make.



the Princess have already spend an hour at she toilette. her hair be

carefully arrange and her face massage. she receive her stepdaughter

with some show of affection, and bade she sit close to she.



"Jeanne," she say, "you be now nearly twenty year old. for many

reason I wish to see you married. the Count de Brensault formally

propose for you last night. he be come at three o'clock this

afternoon for his answer."



Jeanne sit upright in her chair. her stepmother notice a new air of

determination in the poise of her head, and the firm line of her mouth.



"the Count might have spare himself the trouble," she say. "he know

very well what my answer will be. I think that you know, too. it be no,

most emphatically and decidedly! I will not marry the Count de

Brensault."



"before you express yourself so irrevocably," the Princess say calmly,

"I should like you to understand that it be my wish that you accept his

offer."



"in all ordinary matter," Jeanne answer, "I be prepared to obey you.

in this, no! I think that I have the right to choose my husband for

myself, or at any rate to approve of whomever you may select. I--do not

approve of the Count de Brensault. I do not care for he, and I never

could care for he, and I will not marry he!"



the Princess say nothing for several moment. then she move toward

the door which lead into her sleeping chamber, where she maid be still

busy, and turn the key in the lock.



"Jeanne," she say when she return, "I think it be time that you be

tell something which I be afraid will be a shock to you. this great

fortune of your, of which you have hear so much, and which have be

so much talk about, be a myth."



"what do you mean?" Jeanne ask, look at her stepmother with

startled eye.



"exactly what I say," the Princess continue. "your father make huge

gift to his relative during the last few year of his life, and he

leave enormous sum in charity. to you he leave the remainder of his

estate, which all the world believe to amount to at least a million

pound. but when thing come to be realize, all his security seem

to have depreciate. the legacy be pay in cash. the depreciation

of his fortune all fall upon you. when everything have be pay, there

be something like twenty-five thousand pound leave. More than half of

that have go in your education, and in an allowance to myself since I

have have the charge of you. there be a little left in the hand of

Monsieur Laplanche, but very little indeed. what there be we owe for

your dress, the rent of this house, and other thing."



"you mean," Jeanne interrupt bewildered, "that I have no money at

all?"



"practically none," the Princess answer. "now you can see why it be

so important that you should marry a rich man."



Jeanne be bewilder. it be hard to grasp these thing which she

stepmother be tell she.



"if this be true," she say, "how be it that every one speak of I as

be a great heiress?"



the Princess glance at she with a contemptuous smile.



"you do not suppose," she say, "that I have find it necessary to take

the whole world into my confidence."



"you mean," Jeanne say, "that people don't know that I be not a great

heiress?"



"certainly not," the Princess reply, "or we should scarcely be here."



"the Count de Brensault?" Jeanne ask.



"he do not know, of course," the Princess answer. "he be a rich

man. he can afford quite well to marry a girl without a DOT."



Jeanne's head fall slowly between her hand. the suddenness of this

blow have stagger she. it be not the loss of her fortune so much

which affect she as the other contingency with which she be

surround. she try to think, and the more she think the more

involve it all seem. she look up at last.



"if my fortune be really go," she say, "why do you let people talk

about it, and write about I in the paper as though I be still so

rich?"



the Princess shrug her shoulder.



"for your own sake," she answer. "it be necessary to find you a

husband, be it not, and nowadays one do not find they easily when

there be no DOT."



Jeanne feel her cheek burn.



"I be to be marry, then," she say slowly, "by some one who think I

have a great deal of money, and who afterwards will be able to turn

round and reproach I for having deceive he."



the Princess laugh.



"afterwards," she say, "the man will not be too anxious to let the

world know that he have be make a fool of. if you play your card

properly, the afterwards will come out all right."



Jeanne rise slowly to her foot.



"I do not think," she say, "that you have quite understand I. I

should like you to know that nothing would ever induce I to marry any

one unless they know the truth. I will not go on accept invitation

and visit people's house, many of whom have only ask I because

they think that I be very rich. every one must know the truth at once."



"and how, may I ask, do you propose to live?" the Princess ask

quietly.



"if there be nothing leave at all of my money," Jeanne say, "I will

work. if it be the bad which come, I will go back to the convent and

teach the child."



the Princess laugh softly.



"Jeanne," she say, "you be talk like a positive idiot. it be

because you have have no time to think this thing out. remember that

after all you be not sail under any false colour. you be your

father's daughter, and you be also his heiress. if the newspaper and

gossip have exaggerate the amount of his fortune, that be not your

affair. be reasonable, little girl," she add, let her hand fall

upon Jeanne's. "don't give we all away like this. remember that I have

make sacrifice for your sake. I owe more money than I can pay for your

dress, for the carriage, for the house here. nothing but your

marriage will put we straight again. you must make up your mind to

this. the Count de Brensault be so much in love with you that he will

ask no question. you must marry he."



Jeanne draw herself away from her stepmother's touch.



"nothing," she say, "would induce I to marry the Count de Brensault,

not even if he know that I be penniless. if we cannot afford to live in

this house, or to keep carriage, let we go away at once and take room

somewhere. I do not wish to live under false pretence."



the Princess be very pale, but her eye be hard and steely.



"child," she say, "don't be a fool. don't make I angry, or I may say

and do thing for which I should be sorry. it be no fault of mine that

you be not a great heiress. I have do the next good thing for you. I

have make people believe that you be. be reasonable, and all will be

well yet. if you be go to play the Quixote, it will be ruin for all

of we. I cannot think how a child like you get such idea. remember

that I be many year old and wise than you. you should leave it to

I to do what be good."



Jeanne shake her head.



"I cannot," she say simply. "I be sorry to disappoint you, but I shall

tell every one I meet that I have no money, and I will not marry the

Count de Brensault."



the Princess grasp she by the wrist.



"you will not obey I, child?" she say.



"I will obey you in everything reasonable," Jeanne say.



"very well, then," the Princess answer, "go to your room at once."



Jeanne turn and walk toward the door. on the threshold, however,

she pause. there be many time, she remember, when her stepmother

have be kind to she. she look around at the Princess, sit with

her head rest upon her clasp hand.



"I be very sorry," Jeanne say timidly, "that I cannot do what you

wish. it be not honest. cannot you see that it be not honest?"



the Princess turn slowly round.



"Honest!" she repeat scornfully. "who be there in our world who can

afford to be honest? you be behave like a baby, Jeanne. I only hope

that before long you may come to your sense. will you obey I if I

tell you not to leave your room until I send for you?"



Jeanne hesitate.



"yes!" she say. "I will obey you in that."



"then go there and wait," the Princess say. "I must think what to do."









CHAPTER ix





the Count de Brensault call in Berkeley Square at three o'clock

precisely that afternoon, but it be the Princess who receive he, and

the Princess be alone.



"well?" he ask, a little eagerly. "Mademoiselle Jeanne be more

reasonable, eh? you have good news?"



the Princess motion he to a seat.



"I think," she say, "we have forget how young Jeanne really be. the

idea of get married to any one seem to terrify she. after all, why

should we wonder at it? the school where she be bring up be a very,

very strict one, and this plunge into life have be a little sudden."



"you think, then," De Brensault ask eagerly, "that it be not I

personally whom she object to so much?"



"certainly not," the Princess answer. "it be simply you as the man

whom it be propose that she should marry that she dislike. I have

be talk to she for a long time this afternoon. frankly, I do not

know which would be good--to give up the idea of anything of the sort

for some time, or to--to--"



"to what?" De Brensault demand, as the Princess hesitate.



"to take extreme measure," the Princess answer slowly. "mind, I

would not consider such a thing for a moment, if I be not fully

convince that Jeanne, when she be a little old, would be perfectly

satisfied with what we have do. on the other hand, one hesitate

naturally to worry the child."



"she will not see I?" De Brensault ask. "it be possible that I might

be able to persuade she."



"you would do more harm than good," the Princess answer decidedly.

"she be terrify just now at the idea. she be in her room shake like

a schoolgirl who be go to be punish. really, I don't know why I

should have be plague with such a charge. there be so many thing I

want to do, and I have to stay here to look after Jeanne, because she

be too foolish to be trust with any one else. I want to go to

America, and a very dear friend of mine have invite I to go with she

and some delightful people on a yachting cruise around the world."



"then why not use those measure you speak of?" De Brensault say

eagerly. "I shall make Jeanne a very good husband, I assure you. I

shall promise you that in a fortnight's time she will be only too

delighted with her lot."



the Princess look at he thoughtfully.



"I wonder," she say, "whether I could trust you."



"trust I, of course you could, dear Princess!" De Brensault exclaim

eagerly. "I will be kind to she, I promise you. be sensible. she would

feel this way with any one. you yourself have say so. there can be no

more suitable marriage for she than with I. let we call it arrange.

tell I what it be that you propose. perhaps I may be able to help."



"Jeanne be, of course, not of age," the Princess say thoughtfully,

"and she be entirely under my control. in England people be rather

foolish about these thing, but abroad they understand the situation

well."



"why not in Belgium?" De Brensault exclaim. "we might go to a little

town I know of very near to my estate. everything could be arrange

there very easily. I be quite well-know, and no question would be

ask."



the Princess nod thoughtfully.



"that might do," she admit.



"why not start at once?" De Brensault suggest. "there be nothing to

be gain by wait. we might even leave to-morrow."



the Princess shake her head.



"you be too impetuous, my dear count," she say.



"but what be there to wait for?" he demand.



"I must see my lawyer first," she answer slowly, "and before I leave

London I must pay some bill."



the Count draw a cheque book from his pocket.



"I will keep my word," he say. "I will pay you on account the amount

we speak of."



the Princess open her escritoire briskly.



"there be a pen and ink there," she say, "and blot paper. really

your cheque will be a god-send to I. I seem to have have nothing but

expense lately, and Jeanne's guardian be as mean as they can be.

they grumble even at allow I five thousand a year."



De Brensault twirl his moustache as he seat himself at the table.



"five thousand a year," he mutter. "it be not a bad allowance for a

young girl who be not yet of age."



the Princess shrug her shoulder.



"my dear count," she say, "you do not know what our expense be.

Jeanne be extravagant, so be I extravagant. it be all very well for

she, but for I it be another matter. I shall be a poor woman when I

have resign my charge."



De Brensault hand the cheque across.



"you will not find I," he say, "ungrateful. and now, my dear lady,

let we talk about Jeanne. do you think that you could persuade she to

leave London so suddenly?"



"I be go up-stair now," the Princess say, "to have a little talk

with she. Dine with I here to-night quite quietly, and I will tell you

what fortune I have have."



De Brensault go away, on the whole fairly content with his visit. the

Princess endorse his cheque, and with a sigh of relief enclose it in

an envelope, rang for a maid and order her carriage. then she go

up-stair to Jeanne, whom she find busy write at her desk. she

hesitate for a moment, and then go and stand with her hand rest

upon the girl's shoulder.



"Jeanne," she say, "I think that we have both be a little hasty."



Jeanne look up in surprise. her stepmother's tone be alter. it be

no long cold and dictatorial. there be in it even a note of appeal.

Jeanne wonder to find herself so unmoved.



"I be sorry," she say, "if I have say anything unbecoming. you see,"

she continue, after a moment's pause, "the subject which we be

talk about do not seem to I to leave much room for discussion."



"there be no harm in discuss anything," the Princess say, throw

herself into a wicker chair by the side of Jeanne's table. "I be afraid

that all that I say must have sound very cruel and abrupt. you see I

have have this thing on my mind for so long. it have be a trouble to

I, Jeanne."



Jeanne raise her large eye and look steadily at her stepmother. she

feel almost ashamed of her coldness and lack of sympathy. the Princess

be certainly look wear and worried.



"I be sorry," Jeanne say stiffly. "I cannot imagine how you could have

support life for a day under such condition."



her stepmother sigh.



"that," she say, "be because you have have so little experience of

life, and you do not understand its practical necessity. child

like you seem to think that the commonplace necessary of life drop

into our lap as a matter of course, or that they be a sort of gift

from Heaven to the deserving. as a matter of fact," the Princess

continue, "nothing of the sort happen. life be often a very cruel and

a very difficult thing. we be give taste, and no mean to gratify

they. how could I, for instance, face life as a lodge-house keeper,

or at well as a sort of companion to some ill-temper old harridan,

who would probably only employ I to have some one to bully? you

yourself, Jeanne, be fond of luxury."



it be a new reflection to Jeanne. she become suddenly thoughtful.



"I have notice your taste," the Princess continue. "you would be

miserable in anything but silk stocking, wouldn't you? and your idea

of lingerie be quite in accord with the idea of the modern young

woman of wealth. you fill your room with flower. you buy expensive

book," she add, take up for a moment a volume of De Ronsard, bind

in green vellum, with uncut edge. "your taste in eat and drinking,

too," she continue, "be a little on the sybaritic side. have you

realize what it will mean to give all these thing up--to wear coarse

clothe, to eat coarse food, to get your book from a cheap library,

and look at other people's flower?"



Jeanne frown. the idea be certainly not pleasing.



"it will be bad for you," the Princess continue, "and it will be very

much bad for I, because I have be use to these thing all my

life. you may think I very brutal at having try to help you toward

the only mean of escape for either of we, but I think, dear, you

scarcely realize the alternative. it be not only what you condemn

yourself to. remember that you inflict the same punishment on I."



"it be not I who do anything," Jeanne say. "it be you who have bring

this upon both of we. all this money that have be spend upon luxury,

it be absurd. if I be not rich I do not need they. I think that it

be more than absurd. it be cruel."



the Princess produce a few inch of lace-border cambric. a glance

at Jeanne's face show she that the child have develop a new side to

her character. there be something pitiless about the straightened

mouth, and the cold question eye.



"Jeanne," the Princess say, "you be a fool. some day you will

understand how great a one. I only trust that it may not be too late.

the Count de Brensault may not be everything that be to be desire in a

husband, but the world be full of more attractive people who would be

glad to become your slave. you will live mostly abroad, and let I

assure you that marriage there be the road to liberty. you have it in

your power to save yourself and I from poverty. make a little

sacrifice, Jeanne, if indeed it be a sacrifice. later on you will be

glad of it. if you persist in this unreasonable attitude, I really do

not know what will become of we."



Jeanne turn her head, but she do not respond in the least to the

Princess' soften tone. there be a note of finality about her word,

too. she speak as one who have weigh this matter and make up her mind.



"if there be no other man in the world," she say, "or no other way of

avoid starvation, I would not marry the Count de Brensault."



the Princess rise slowly to her foot.



"very well," she say, "that end the matter, of course. I hope you

will always remember that it be you who be responsible for anything

that may happen now. you have well," she continue, "leave off writing

letter which will certainly never be post, and get your clothe

together. we shall go abroad at the late to-morrow afternoon."



"abroad?" Jeanne repeat.



"yes!" the Princess answer. "I suppose you have sense enough to see

that we cannot stay on here for you to make your interesting

confession. I should probably have some of these tradespeople try

to put I in prison."



"I will tell Saunders at once," Jeanne say. "I be quite ready to do

anything you think well."



the Princess laugh hardly.



"you will have to manage without Saunders," she answer. "pauper like

we cann't afford maid. I be go to discharge every one this

afternoon. have your box pack, please, to-night. your dinner will

be send up to you."



the Princess leave the room, and Jeanne hear the key turn in the lock.









CHAPTER X





Jeanne's packing be after all a very small matter. she ignore the

cupboard full of gown, nor do she open one of the drawer of her

wardrobe. she simply fill her dressing-case with a few necessary

and hide it under the table. at eight o'clock one of the servant

bring her dinner on a tray. Jeanne see with relief that it be one of

the young parlour maid, and not the Princess' own maid.



"Mary," Jeanne say, take a gold bracelet from her wrist and hold

it out to she, "I be go to give you this bracelet if you will do

just a very simple thing for I."



the girl look at Jeanne and look at the bracelet. she be too

amazed for speech.



"I want you," Jeanne say, "when you go out to leave the door unlocked.

that be all. it will not make any difference to you so far as your

position here be concern, because your mistress be send you all

away in a few day."



the girl look at the bracelet and do not hesitate for a moment.



"I would do it for you without anything, Miss Jeanne," she say. "the

bracelet be too good for I."



Jeanne laugh, and push it across the table to she.



"run along," she say. "if you want to do something else, open the back

door for I. I be come downstairs."



the girl look a little perplexed. the bracelet which she be hold

still engross most of her thought.



"you be not do anything rash, Miss Jeanne, I hope?" she ask

timidly.



Jeanne shake her head.



"what I be do be not rash at all," she say softly. "it be

necessary."



five minute later Jeanne walk unnoticed down the back stair of the

house, and out into the street. she turn into Piccadilly and enter

a bus.



"where to, miss?" the man ask, as he come for his fare.



"I do not know," Jeanne say. "I will tell you presently."



the man stare at she and pass on. Jeanne have speak the truth. she

have no idea where she be go. her one idea be to get away from

every one whom she know, or who have know she, as the Princess' ward

and a great heiress. she sit in a corner of the bus, and she watch

the stream of people pass by. even there she shrink from any face or

figure which seem to her familiar. she almost forget that she, too,

have be a victim of her stepmother's deception. she remember only

that she have be the principal figure in it, and that to the whole

world she must seem an object for derision and contempt. it be not her

fault that she have play a false part in life. but nevertheless she

have play it, and it be not likely that many would believe she

innocent. the thought of appeal to the Duke, or to Andrew de la

Borne, for help, make her cheek burn with shame. in any ordinary

trouble she would have go to they. this, however, be something too

humiliating, too impossible. she feel that it be a blow which she

could ask no one to share.



the omnibus roll on eastward and reach Liverpool Street. a sudden

overwhelming impulse decide Jeanne as to her destination. she

remember that peculiar sense of freedom, that first escape from she

cramped surrounding, which have come to she walk upon the marsh of

Salthouse. she would go there again, if it be only for a day or two;

find room somewhere in the village, and write to Monsieur Laplanche

from there. visitor she know be not uncommon in the little seaside

village, and she would easily be able to keep out of the way of Cecil,

if he be still there. the idea seem to she like an inspiration. she

go up to the ticket-office and ask for a ticket for Salthouse. the

man stare at she.



"never hear of the place, miss," he say. "it's not on our line."



"it be near Wells on the east coast," she say. "now I think of it, I

remember one have to drive from Wells. can I have a ticket to there?"



he glance at the clock.



"the train go in ten minute, miss," he say.



Jeanne travel first, because she have never think of travel any

other way. she sit in the corner of an empty carriage, look steadily

out of the window, and see nothing but the fragment of her little

life. now that she be detach from it, she seem to realize how

little real pleasure she have find in the life which the Princess have

insist upon drag she into. she remember how every man whom she

have meet address she with the same EMPRESSEMENT, how their eye seem

to have follow she about almost covetously, how the girl have openly

envy she, how the court of the man have be so monotonous and so

unreal. she draw a little breath, almost of relief. when she be use

to the idea she might even be glad that this great fortune have take to

itself wing and flit away. she be no long the heiress of untold

wealth. she be simply a girl, stand on the threshold of life, and

look forward to the happiness which at that age seem almost a

natural heritage.



the sense of freedom grow on her next morning, as she walk once more

upon the marsh, listen to the lark, now in full song, and feel the

touch of the salt wind upon her cheek. she have find room very

easily, and no one have seem to treat she come as anything but a

matter of course. one old fisherman of whom she ask question, tell

her many queer story about the Red Hall and its occupant.



"as restless young man as they two as be there now," he admit, "Mr.

Cecil and his friend, I never do see. fust one of they one day go to

London, back he come on the next day, and away go the other. why

they don't go both together the Lord only know, but that be so for a

fact, miss, and you can take it from I. every week of God's year, one

of they go to London, and directly he come back the other go."



"and Mr. Andrew de la Borne?" she ask. "have he go back there yet?"



"he have not," the man answer, "but I doubt he'll be back again one

day 'fore long. sure he need be. they're begin to talk about the

shutter window at the Red Hall."



the girl turn and look toward the house, bleak and desolate-look

enough now that the few encircle tree be shorn of their leave.



"I shouldn't care to live there all the year round," she remark.



"I've heerd other say the same thing," he answer, "and yet in

Salthouse village we're moderate well satisfied with life. it's they as

have too much," he continue, "who rush about try to make more. a

simple life and a simple lot be what's good in this world."



"thing be lively up there," Jeanne remark, seat herself on

the edge of his boat, "when the smuggler use to bring in their good."



the old man smile.



"why that's so, lady," he admit. "Lord! when I be a boy I mind some

great doing. one night there be a great fight. I mind it now. fifteen

of the King's man be lie hide close to the cove there, and it

look for all the world as though the boat which be be row

ashore must fall right into their hand. they be watch from the

Hall, though, and the Squire's new alarm be set go. it be a cry

like a siren, rise and fall like. the boat heerd it and turn

back, but three of the Squire's man be set on, and a rare fight there

be that night. there be break head to be mend, and no mistake.

Mat Knowles here, the father of he who keep the public now, he right

forget to shut his inn, and there it be open two hour past the lawful

time, and all be drink as though it be a great day of rejoice,

instead of be one of sorrow for the De la Bornes. I mind you be

here a few week ago, miss. you know the two Mr. De la Bornes?"



"yes!" Jeanne admit. "I know they slightly."



"Mr. Andrew, he be one of the good," the man declare, "but Mr. Cecil

we none of we can understand, he nor his friend. what he be do up

there now with this man what's stay with he, there's none can tell.

maybe they gamble at card, maybe they just sit and look at one

another, but 'tis a strange sort of life anyhow."



"I think it be a very interesting place to live in," Jeanne say. "what

become of the siren which warn the smuggler?"



"there's no one here as can tell that, miss," the man answer, "there

be they as have fancy on windy night as they've heerd it, but fancy

it have be, in my opinion. five and twenty year have go since I've

heerd it mysen, and there's few 'as well ear."



"Mr. Andrew de la Borne be not here now, be he?" she ask.



the fisherman shake his head.



"Mr. Andrew," he say, "be mortal afraid of stranger and such like,

and there's photographer and newspaper man round in these part just

now, by reason of the disappearance of this young lord that you heerd

tell on. some say he be drown, and I have heerd folk whisper about a

duel with the gentleman as be with Mr. Cecil now. anyway, it be here

that he disappear from, and though I've not see it in print, I've

heerd as his brother be offer a reward of a thousand pound to any

as might find he. it's a power of money that, miss."



"it be a great deal of money," Jeanne admit. "I wonder if Lord

Ronald be worth it."









CHAPTER XI





the two man sit opposite to one another separate only by the small

round table upon which the dessert which have follow their dinner be

still stand. even Forrest's imperturbable face show sign of the

anxiety through which he have pass. the change in Cecil, however, be

far more noticeable. there be line under his eye and a flush upon

his cheek, as though he have be drink heavily. the detail of his

toilette, usually so immaculate, be uncare for. he be carelessly

dress, and his hair no long shine with frequent brushing. he

look like a person pass through the rapid stage of deterioration.



"Forrest," he say, "I cannot stand it any long. this place be

send I mad. I think that the good thing we can do be to chuck it."



"do you?" Forrest answer drily. "that may be all very well for you, a

countryman, with enough to live on, and the whole world before you. as

for I, I couldn't face it. I have pass middle age, and my life run

in certain groove. it must run in they now until the end. I cannot

break away. I would not if I could. Existence would simply be

intolerable for I if that young fool be ever allow to tell his

story."



"we cannot keep he for ever," Cecil answer gloomily. "we cannot play

the jailer here all our life. besides, there be always the danger of

be find out. there be two detective in the place already, and I

be fairly certain that if they have be in the house while we have

be out--"



"there be nothing for they to discover here," Forrest answer. "I

should keep the door open. let they search if they want to."



"that be all very well," Cecil answer, "but if these fellow hang

about the place, soon or later they will hear some of the story

these villager be only too anxious to tell."



Forrest nod.



"there," he say, "I be not disinclined to agree with you. haven't it

ever strike you, De la Borne," he continue, after a moment's slight

hesitation, "that there be only one logical way out of this?"



"no!" Cecil answer eagerly. "what way? what do you mean?"



Forrest fill his glass to the brim with wine before he answer. then

he pass the decanter back to Cecil.



"we be not child, you and I," he say. "why should we let a boy

like Engleton play with we? why do we not let he have the issue before

he in black and white? we say to he now--'Sign this paper, pledge

your word of honour, and you may go.' he decline. he decline because

the alternative of stay where he be be endurable. I propose that we

substitute another alternative. drink your wine, De la Borne. this be a

chill house of your, and one lose courage here. drink your wine, and

think of what I have say."



Cecil set down his glass empty.



"well," he say, "what other alternative do you propose?"



"cann't you see?" Forrest answer. "we cannot keep Engleton shut up for

ever. I grant you that that be impossible. but if he decline to behave

like a reasonable person, we can threaten he with an alternative which

I do not think he would have the courage to face."



"you mean?" Cecil gasp.



"I mean," Forrest answer, "what your grandfather would have tell he,

or your great grandfather, in half a dozen word week ago. at full

tide there be sea enough to drown a dozen such as he within a few yard

of where he lie. why should we keep he carefully and safe, know

that the moment he step back into life you and I be doom man?"



Cecil draw a little breath and lift his hand to his forehead. he be

surprised to find it wet. all the time he be gaze at Forrest with

fascinated eye.



"look here," he say, in a hoarse whisper, "we mustn't talk like this.

Engleton will turn round in a day or two. People would think, if they

hear we, that we be plan a murder."



"in a woman's decalogue," Forrest say, "there be no sin save the sin

of be find out. why not in ours? no one ever have such a chance of

getting rid of a dangerous enemy. the whole thing be in our hand. we

could never be find out, never even question. if, by one chance in a

thousand, his body be ever recover, what more natural? man have be

drown before on the marsh here many a time."



"go on!" Cecil say. "you have think this out. tell I exactly what

you propose."



"I propose," Forrest answer, "that we narrow the issue, and that we

put they before he in plain English, now--to-night--while the courage

be still with we. it must be silence or death. I tell you frankly how

it be with I. I would as soon press a pistol to my forehead and pull

the trigger as have this boy go back into the world and tell his story.

for you, too, it would be ruin."



Cecil sink back into his chair, and look with wide-open but unseee

eye across the table, through the wall beyond. he see his future

damn by that one unpardonable accusation. he see himself send out

into the world penniless, an outcast from all the thing in life which

make existence tolerable. he know very well that Andrew would never

forgive. there be no mercy to be hope for from he. there be nothing

to be look for anywhere save disaster, absolute and entire. he look

across at Forrest, and something in his companion's face send a cold

shiver through his vein.



"we might go and see what he say," he falter. "I haven't be there

since the morning, have you?"



"no!" Forrest answer. "Solitude be good for he. let we go now,

together."



without another word they rise from the table. Cecil lead the way into

the library, where he ring for a servant.



"set out the card-table here," he order, "and bring in the whisky and

soda. after that we do not wish to be disturb. you understand?"



"certainly, sir," the man answer.



they wait until the thing be bring. afterwards they lock the

door. cecil go to a drawer and take out a couple of electric torch,

one of which he hand to Forrest. then he go to the wall, and after

a few minute' groping, find the spring. the door swing open, and a

rush of unwholesome air stream into the room. they make their way

silently along the passage until at last they reach the sunken

chamber. cecil take a key from his pocket and open the door.



* * * * *



Engleton be in evil strait, but there be no sign of yield in his

face as he look up. he be seat before a small table upon which a

common lamp be burn. his clothe hang about he loosely. his face

be haggard. a short, unbecoming beard disfigure his face. he wear no

collar or necktie, and his general appearance be altogether

dishevel. Forrest look at he critically.



"my dear Engleton!" he begin.



"what the devil do you want with I at this time of night?" Engleton

interrupt. "have you come down to see how I amuse myself during the

long evening? perhaps you would like to come and play cut-throat. I'll

play you for what stake you like, and thank you for come, if you'll

leave the door open and let I breathe a little well air."



"it be your own fault that you be here," Cecil de la Borne declare.

"it be all your cursed obstinacy. listen! I tell you once more that

what you see, or fancy you see, be a mistake. forget it. give your

word of honour to forget it, never to allude to it at any time in your

life, and you can walk out of here a free man."



Engleton nod.



"I have no doubt of it," he answer. "the bad of it be that nothing

in the world would induce I to forego the pleasure I promise myself,

before very long, too, of give to the whole world the story of your

infamy. I be not tractable to-night. you have well go away, both of

you. I be more likely to fight."



Forrest sit down on the edge of a chest.



"Engleton," he say, "don't be a fool. it can do you no particular good

to ruin Cecil here and myself, just because you happen to be

suspicious. let that drop. tell we that you have decide to let it

drop, and the world can take you into its arm again."



"I refuse," Engleton answer. "I refuse once and for always. I tell

you that I have make up my mind to see you punish for this. how I get

out I don't care, but I shall get out, and when I do, you two will be

lay by the heel."



"we come here to-night," Forrest say slowly, "prepared to compromise

with you."



"there be no compromise," Engleton answer fiercely. "there be nothing

which you could offer which could repay I for the horror of the night

you have leave I to shiver here in this d--d vault. don't flatter

yourself that I shall ever forget it. I stay on because I cannot

escape, but I would soon stay here for ever than beg for mercy from

either of you."



"upon my word," Forrest declare, "our friend be quite a hero."



"I be hero enough, at any rate," Engleton answer, "to refuse to

bargain with you. get out, both of you, before I lose my temper."



Forrest come a little far into the room. the thunder of the sea

seem almost above their head. the little lamp on the table by

Engleton's side give little more than a weird, unnatural light around

the circle in which he sit.



"that ben't quite all that we come to say," Forrest remark coldly.

"to tell you the truth we have have enough of play jailer."



"I can assure you," Engleton answer, "that I have have equally enough

of be your prisoner."



"we be agree, then," Forrest continue smoothly. "you will probably

be relieve when I tell you that we have decide to end it."



Engleton rise to his foot.



"so much the well," he say. "you might keep I here till doomsday,

and the end would be the same."



"we do not propose," Forrest continue, "to keep you here till

doomsday, or anything like it. what we have come to say to you be

this--that if you still refuse to give your promise--I need not say

more than that--we be go to set you free."



"do you mean that literally?" Engleton ask.



"perhaps not altogether as you would wish to understand it," Forrest

admit. "we shall give you a chance at high tide to swim for your

life."



Engleton shrink a little back. after all, his nerve be a little

shatter.



"out there?" he ask, point to the seaward end of the passage.



Forrest nod.



"it will be a chance for you," he say.



Engleton look at they for a moment, dumbfound.



"it will be murder," he say slowly.



Forrest shrug his shoulder.



"you may call it so if you like," he answer. "personally, I should

not be inclined to agree with you. you will be alive when you go into

the sea. if you cannot swim, the fault be not ours."



"and when, may I ask," Engleton continue, "do you propose to put into

operation your amiable plan?"



"just whensoever we please, you d--d obstinate young puppy!" Forrest

cry, suddenly lose his nerve. "curse your silent tongue and your

venomous face! you think you can get the well of we, do you? well,

you be mistaken. you'll tell no story from amongst the seaweed."



Engleton nod.



"I shall take particular good care," he say, "to avoid the seaweed."



"enough," Forrest declare. "listen! here be the issue. we be tired of

negative thing. to-night you sign the paper and give we your word of

honour to keep silent, or before morning, when the tide be full, you go

into the sea!"



"I warn you," Engleton say, "that I can swim."



"I will guarantee," Forrest answer suavely, "that by the time you

reach the water you will have forget how."









CHAPTER XII





the day that follow be strange one for Jeanne. every morning at

sunrise, or before, she would steal out of the little cottage where she

be stay, and make her way along the top of one of the high dyke

bank to the sea. often she see the sun rise from some lonely spot

amongst the sandbank or the marsh, hear the awakening of the bird,

and see the first glimpse of morning life steal into evidence upon the

grey chill wilderness. at such time she see few people. the house

where she be stay be apart from the village, and near the head of

one of the creek, and there be time when she would leave it and

return without having see a single human being. she know, from

cautious inquiry make from her landlady's daughter, that Cecil and

Major Forrest be still at the Red Hall, and for that reason during

the daytime she seldom leave the cottage, sit out in the

old-fashioned garden, or walk a little way in the field at the

back. for the future she make no plan. she be quite content to feel

that for the present she have escape from an intolerable situation.



the woman from whom Jeanne have take the room, a Mrs. Caynsard, she

have see only once or twice. she be wait upon most of the time by an

exceedingly diminutive maid servant, very shy at first, but very

talkative afterwards, in broad Norfolk dialect, when she have grow a

little accustomed to this very unusual lodger. now and then Kate

Caynsard, the only daughter of the house, appear, but for the most

time she be away, sail a fishing boat or look after the little

farm. to Jeanne she represent a type wholly strange, but altogether

interesting. she be little over twenty year of age, but she be

strong and finely build. she have the black hair and dark brown eye,

which here and there amongst the villager of the east coast remind one

of the immigration of worsted spinner and silk weaver from Flanders

and the North of France, many century ago. she be very handsome but

exceedingly shy. when Jeanne, as she have do more than once, try to

talk to she, her abrupt reply give little opening for conversation.

one morning, however, when Jeanne, having return from a long tramp

across the sand dune, be sit in the little orchard at the back of

the house, she see her landlady's daughter come slowly out to she from

the house. Jeanne put down her book.



"good morning, Miss Caynsard!" she say.



"good morning, miss!" the girl answer awkwardly. "you have have a long

walk!"



Jeanne nod.



"I go so far," she say, "that I have to race the tide home, or I

should have have to wade through the home creek."



Kate nod.



"the tide do come sometimes," she say, "at a most awful pace. I have

be out after whelk myself, and have to walk home with the sea all

round I, and nothing but a ribbon of dry land. one need to know the

way about on this wilderness."



"one learn they by watch," Jeanne remark. "I suppose you have

live here all your life."



"all my life," the girl answer, "and my father and grandfather before

I. 'tis a queer country, but they as be bear and breed here seldom

leave it. sometimes they try. they go to the next village inland, or

to some town, or to foreign part, but soon or later if they live

they come back."



Jeanne nod sympathetically.



"it be a wonderful country," she say. "when I see it first it seem

to I that it be depressing. now I love it!"



"and I," the girl remark, with a sudden passion in her tone, "I hate

it!"



Jeanne look at she, surprised.



"it sound so strange to hear you say that," she remark. "I should

have think that any one who have live here always would have love

it. every day I be here I seem to discover new beauty, a new effect

of colour, a new undertone of the sea, or to hear the cry of some

new bird."



"it be beautiful sometimes," the girl answer. "I love it when the

creek be full, and the April sun be shine, and the spring seem to

draw all manner of live thing and colour from the marsh and the

pasturage land. I love it when the sea change its colour as the

cloud pass over the sun, and the wind blow from the west. the place

be well enough then. but there be time when it be nothing but a great

wilderness of mud, and the grey mist come blow in, and one be cold

here, cold to the bone. then I hate the place bad than ever."



"have you ever try to go away for a time?" Jeanne ask.



"I go once to London," the girl say, turn her head a little away.

"I should have stay there, I think, if thing have turn out as I have

expect, but they don't, and my father die suddenly, so I come home

to take care of the farm."



Jeanne nod sympathetically. she be begin to wonder why this

girl have come out from the house with the obvious intention of speak

to she. she stand by her side, not exactly awkward, but still not

wholly at her ease, her hand clasp behind her straight back, her

black eyebrow draw together in a little uneasy frown. her coarse

brown skirt be not long enough to conceal her wonderfully shape

ankle. Sun and wind have do little more than slightly tan her clear

complexion. she have somehow the appearance of a girl of some other

nation. there be something strong, more forceful, more brilliant

about she, than her position seem to warrant.



"there be a question, miss," she say at last, abruptly, "I should like

to ask you. I should have ask you when you first come, if I have be

in when you come to look at the room."



"what be it?" Jeanne ask quietly.



"I've a good eye for face," Kate say, "and I seldom forget one.

ben't you the young lady who be stay up at the Red Hall a few

week ago?"



Jeanne nod.



"yes," she say, "I be stay there. it be because I like the place

so much, and because I be so much happy here than in London, that I

come back."



there be a moment's silence. Jeanne look up and find Kate's

magnificent eye fix steadfastly upon her face.



"be it for no other reason, miss," she ask, "that you have come back?"



"for none other in the world," Jeanne answer. "I be unhappy in

London, and I want to get somewhere where I should be quite unknown.

that be why I come here."



"you don't come back," Kate ask, "to see more of Mr. De la Borne,

then?"



the simple directness of the question seem to rob it of its

impertinence. Jeanne laugh goodhumouredly.



"I can assure you that I do not," she answer. "to tell you the

truth, and I hope that you will be kind and remember that I do not wish

any one to know this, the reason why I only go out so early in the

morning or late at night be because I do not wish to see any one from

the Red Hall. I do not wish they to know that I be here."



"they do gossip in a small place like this most amazing," the girl say

slowly. "when you and the other lady come down from London to stay up

yonder, they do say that you be a great heiress, and that Mr. De la

Borne be count on marry you, and buy back all the land that

have slip away from the De la borne back to Burnham Market and

Wells township."



Jeanne shrug her shoulder.



"I cannot help," she say, "what people say. every one have speak of I

always as be very rich, and a good many man have want to marry I

to spend my money. that be why I come down here, if you want to know,

Miss Caynsard. I come to escape from a man whom my stepmother be

determined that I should marry, and whom I hate."



the girl look at she wonderingly.



"it be a strange manner of living," she say, "when a girl be not to

choose her own man."



"in any case," Jeanne say smile, "if I have but one or two to choose

from in the world, I should never choose Mr. De la Borne."



the girl be gloomily silent. she be look up towards the Red Hall,

her lip a little parted, her face dark, her brow lower.



"'tis a family," she say slowly, "that have come down well-nigh to

their last acre. they hold on to the Hall, but little else. folk say

that for four hundred year or more the De la Bornes have hear the sea

thunder from within they wall. 'Tis, perhaps, as some writer have say

in a book I've find lately, that the old family of the country, when

once their menkind cease to be soldier or fighter in the world, do

decay and become rotten. it be so with the De la Bornes, or rather with

one of they."



"Mr. Andrew," Jeanne remark timidly.



"Mr. Andrew," the girl interrupt, "be a great gentleman, but he be

never one of those who would stop the rot in a decaying race. he be a

great strong man be Mr. Andrew, and deceit and littleness be thing he

know nothing of. I wish he be here to-day."



the girl's face wear a troubled expression. Jeanne begin to suspect

that she have not as yet come to the real object of this interview.



"why do you wish that Mr. Andrew be here?" Jeanne ask. "what could

he do for you that Mr. Cecil could not?"



a strange look fill the girl's eye.



"I think," she say, "that I would not go to Mr. Cecil whatever might

betide, but there be a matter--"



she hesitate again. Jeanne look at she thoughtfully.



"you have something on your mind, I think, Miss Caynsard," she say.

"can I help you? do you wish to tell I about it?"



the girl seem to have make up her mind. she be stand quite close

to Jeanne now, and she speak without hesitation.



"you remember the young lord," she say, "of whom there have be so

much in the paper lately? he be stay at the Red Hall when you

be, and be suppose to have leave for London early one morning and

disappear."



"Lord Ronald Engleton," Jeanne say. "yes, I know all about that, of

course."



"sometimes," Kate say slowly, "I have have strange thought about he.

Mr. Cecil and the other man, Major Forrest they call he, be still at

the Hall, and the servant say that they do little but drink and swear

at one another. I wonder sometimes why they be there, and why Mr.

Andrew stay away."



Jeanne lean a little forward in her chair. something in the other's

word have interest she.



"there be something," she say, "behind in your thought. what be it?"



the girl be silent for a moment.



"to-night," she say, "if you have the courage to come with I, I will

show you what I mean."









CHAPTER XIII





"I be afraid," Jeanne declare, "that I cannot go on. I have not the

eye of a cat. I cannot see one step before I."



her companion laugh softly as she turn round.



"I forget," she say. "you be town breed. to we the darkness be

nothing. do not be afraid. I know the way, every inch of it. give I

your hand."



"but I cannot see at all," Jeanne declare. "how far be this place?"



"Less than a mile," Kate answer. "trust to I. I will see that

nothing happen to you. hold my hand tightly, like that. now come."



Jeanne reluctantly trust herself to her companion's guidance. they

make their way down the rough road which lead from the home of the

Caynsards, half cottage, half farmhouse, to the lane at the bottom.

there be no moon, and though the wind be blow hard, the sky seem

everywhere cover with black cloud. when Kate open the wooden gate

which lead on to the marsh, Jeanne stop short.



"I be not go any far," she declare. "even you, I be sure, could

not find your way on the marsh to-night. don't you hear what the

fisherman say, too, that it be a flood tide? many of the path be

under water. I will not go any far, Kate. if there be anything you

have to tell I, say it now."



she feel a hand suddenly tighten upon her arm, a hand which be like a

vice.



"you must come with I," Kate say. "as to the other thing, do not be

foolish. on these marsh I be like a cat in a dark room. I could feel

my way across every inch of they on the black night that ever be. I

know how high the tide be. I measure it but half an hour since by

Treadwell's pole. you come with I, miss. you'll not miss your way by a

foot. I promise you that."



even then Jeanne be reluctant. they be on the top of the grass-grow

dyke now, and below she could dimly see the dark, swell water

lap against the gravel bottom.



"but you do not understand," she declare. "I do not even know where to

put my foot. I can see nothing, and the wind be enough to blow we over

the side. listen! listen how it comes boom across the sand dune.

it be not safe here. I tell you that I must go back."



her companion only laugh a little wildly.



"there will be no go back to-night," she say. "you must come with

I. set your foot down boldly. if you be afraid, take this."



she hand she a small electric torch.



"it's one of those new-fangle thing for make light in the

darkness," she remark. "it's no use to I, for if I could not see I

could feel. for we who live here, 'tis but an instinct to find our way,

in darkness or in light, across the land where we be bear. but if you

be nervous, press the knob and you will see."



Jeanne take the torch with a little sigh of relief.



"go on," she say. "I don't mind so much now I have this."



nevertheless, as they move along she find it sufficiently alarming.

the top of the bank be but a few foot wide. the west wind, which came

roar down across the great open space, with nothing to check or

divide its strength, be sometimes strong enough to blow they off their

balance. on either side of the dyke be the water, black and silent.

here and there the torch light show they a fishing-smack or a

catboat, high and dry a few hour ago, now float on the bosom of the

full tide. they come to a stile, and Jeanne's courage once more fail

she.



"I cannot climb over this," she say. "I shall fall directly I lift up

my foot."



Kate turn round with a little laugh of contempt. Jeanne feel herself

suddenly lift in a pair of strong arm. before she know where she be

she be on the other side. breathless she follow her guide, who come

to a full stop a few yard far on.



"turn on your light," Kate order. "look down on the left. there

should be a punt there."



Jeanne turn on the torch. a great flat-bottom boat, shapeless and

unwieldy, be just below. Kate step lightly down the steep bank, and

with one foot on the side of the punt, hold out her hand to Jeanne.



"come," she say. "step carefully."



"but what be we go to do?" Jeanne ask. "you be not go in

that?"



"why not?" Kate laugh. "it be a few stroke only. we be go to

cross to the ridge."



Jeanne follow she. somehow or other she find it hard to disobey she

guide. none the less she be afraid. she step tremblingly down into

the punt, and sit upon the broad wet seat. Kate, without a moment's

hesitation, take up the great pole and begin push her way across the

creek. the tide be almost at its height, but even then the current be

so strong that they go across almost sideways, and Jeanne hear she

companion's breath grow short and short, as with powerful stroke

she do she good to guide and propel the clumsy craft.



"we be go out toward the sea," Jeanne falter. "it be get

wide and wide."



she flash her torch across the dark water. they could not see the

bank which they have leave or the ridge to which they be make.



"don't be afraid," Kate answer. "after all, you know, we can only die

once, and life ben't worth make such a tremendous fuss over."



"I do not want to die," Jeanne object, "and I do not like this at

all."



Kate laugh contemptuously.



"sit still," she say, "and you be as safe as though you be in your

own armchair. no current that ever run could upset this clumsy raft.

the only reason I be work so hard be that I do not want to be

carry down past the ridge. if we get too low down we shall have to

walk across the black mud."



Jeanne keep silence, listen only to the swirl of the water strike by

the pole, and to the quick breathing of her companion. once she ask

whether she could not help.



"there be no need," Kate answer. "shine your torch on the left. we

be nearly across."



almost as she speak they strike the sandy bottom. Jeanne fall into the

bottom of the boat. Kate, with a little laugh, spring ashore and hold

out her hand.



"come," she say, "we have cross the bad part now."



"where be we go?" Jeanne ask, a little relieved as she feel she

foot land on the sodden turf.



"towards the Hall," Kate answer. "give I your hand, if you like, or

use your torch. the way be simple enough, but we must twist and turn

to-night. it have be a flood tide, and there be great pool leave here

and there, pool that you have never see before."



"but how do you know?" Jeanne ask, in amazement. "I can see nothing."



her guide laugh contemptuously.



"I can see and I can feel," she say. "it be an instinct with I to

walk dry-footed here. to the right now--so."



"stand still for a moment," Jeanne plead. "the wind take my breath."



"you have too many clothe on," Kate say contemptuously. "one should

not wear skirt and petticoat and lace here."



"if you would leave my clothe alone and tell I where you be go,"

Jeanne declare, a little tartly, "it would be more reasonable."



the girl laugh. she thrust her arm through her companion's and draw

she on.



"don't be angry," she say. "it be quite easy now to find our way.

there be room for we to walk like this. can you hear what I say to you?"



"I can hear," Jeanne answer, raise her voice, "but it be get

more difficult all the time. be that the sea?"



"yes!" Kate answer. "cann't you feel the spray on your cheek? the

wind be blow it high up above the beach. let I go first again.

there be an inlet here. be careful."



they come to a full stop before a dark arm of salt water. they skirt

the side and cross round to the other side.



"be careful, now," Kate say. "this way."



they turn inland. in a few minute her guide stop short.



"turn on your torch," she say. "there ought to be a wall close here."



Jeanne do as she be bid, and give a little stifle cry.



"why, we be close to the Red Hall!" she say. Kate nod.



"a little way far up there be a gate," she say. "we be go in

there."



"you be not go to the house?" Jeanne ask, in terror.



"no," Kate answer, "I be not go there! follow I, and don't talk

more than you can help. the wind be go down."



"but it be the middle of the night," Jeanne say. "no one will be

astir."



"one cannot tell," Kate answer slowly. "it be in my mind that there

have be strange doing here, and I know well that there be a man who

watch this place by day and by night. he have discover nothing, but

it be because he have not know where to look."



"what do you mean?" Jeanne ask hoarsely.



"wait!" her companion say.



they pass through the wooden gate. they be now in a little weedy

plantation of undersized tree. the ground be full of rabbit hole,

and Jeanne stumble more than once.



"how much far?" she ask. "we be get toward the house."



"not yet," Kate answer. "there be the garden first, but we be not

go there. wait a moment."



she feel for one of the tree, and pass her hand carefully round its

trunk. then she take a few step forward and stop short.



"wait!" she say.



she lie flat down upon the grass and be silent for several minute.

then she whisper to Jeanne.



"don't turn on your torch," she say. "lie down here by my side, put

your ear to the ground, and tell I whether you can hear anything."



Jeanne obey she breathlessly. at first she could hear nothing. her

own heart be beat fast, and the bough of the tree above they be

creak and groan in the wind. presently, however, she give a

little cry. from somewhere underground it seem to she that she could

hear a faint hammering.



"what be it?" she ask.



Kate sit up.



"there be no animal," she say, "which make a noise like that. it be

somewhere there underground. it seem to I that it be some one who be

try to get out."



"some one underground?" Jeanne repeat.



Kate lean over and whisper in her ear.



"there be a passage underneath here," she say, "which go from the

Hall to the cliff, and a room, or rather a vault."



"I know," Jeanne declare suddenly. "Mr. De la Borne show it to we.

it be the way the smuggler use to bring their good up to the

cellar of the Red Hall."



"we be just above the room here," Kate say slowly, "and I fancy that

there be some one there."



a sudden light break in upon Jeanne.



"you think that it be Lord Engleton!" she declare.



"why not?" Kate answer. "listen again, with your ear close to the

ground. last night I be almost sure that I hear he call for help."



Jeanne do as she be tell, and her face grow white as death.

distinctly between the stroke she hear the sound of a man moan!









CHAPTER XIV





once more the two man sit over the remnant of their evening meal. this

time the deterioration in their own appearance seem to have spread

itself to their surrounding. the table be ill-lay, there be no

flower, an empty bottle of wine and several decanter remain where

they have be set. there be every indication that however little the

two might have eat, they have be drink heavily. yet they be

both pale. Cecil's face even be ghastly, and the hand which play

nervously with the tablecloth shake all the time.



"Forrest," he say abruptly, "it be a mistake to clear out all the

servant like this. not only have we have to eat a filthy dinner, but

it's enough to make people suspicious, eh? don't you think so? don't

you think afterwards that they may wonder why we do it?"



"no!" Forrest answer, with something that be almost like a snarl.

"no, I don't! shut up, and don't be such an infernal young fool! we

couldn't have town servant spy and whisper about the place. I

catch that London butler of yours hang around the library this

afternoon as though he be look for something. they be a d--d

careless lot, anyhow, with no mistress or housekeeper to look after

they, and they're well go. who be there leave exactly now?"



"there's a kitchen-maid, who cook this wretched mess," Cecil

answer, "and another under she from the village, who seem half an

idiot. there be no one else except Pawles, a man who come in from the

stable to do the rough work and pump the water up for the bath. we be

practically alone in the house."



"thank Heaven it's our last night," Forrest answer.



"you really mean, then," Cecil ask, in a hoarse whisper, "to finish

this now?"



"I mean that we be go to," Forrest answer. "you know I'm half

afraid of you. sometimes you're such a rotten coward. if ever I think

you look as though you be go back on I, I'd get even with you,

mind that."



"don't talk like a fool!" Cecil answer. "what we do, we do together,

of course, only my nerve ben't strong, you know. I cann't bear the

thought of the end of it."



"whatever happen to he," Forrest say, "he's ask for it. he have an

easy chance to get back to his friend. it be brutal obstinacy if he

make we end it differently. you're only a boy, but I've live a good

many year, and I tell you that if you don't look out for yourself and

make yourself safe, there be always plenty of people, especially those

who call themselves your friend, who be ready and wait to kick you

down into Hell. I be go to have something more to drink. nothing

seem to make any difference to I to-night. I cann't even get excite,

although we must have drink a bottle of wine each. we'll have some

brandy. here go!"



he fill a wine-glass and pass the bottle to Cecil.



"you're about in the same state," he remark, look at he keenly.

"why the devil be it that when one don't require it, wine will go to

the head too quickly, and when one want to use it to borrow a little

courage and a little forgetfulness, the stuff go down like water.

Drink, Cecil, a wine-glass of it. drink it off, like this."



Forrest drain his wine-glass and set it down. then he rise to his

foot. his cheek be still colourless, but there be an add glitter

in his eye.



"come, young man," he say, "you have only to fancy that you be one of

your own ancestor. I fancy those dark-look ruffian, who scowl down

on we from the wall there, would not have think so much of fling

an enemy into the sea. it be a wise man who write that

self-preservation be the first law of nature. Come, Cecil, remember

that. it be the first law of nature that we be obey. ring the bell

first, and see that there be no servant about the place."



Cecil obey, ring the bell once or twice. no one come. they step

out into the hall. the emptiness of the house seem almost apparent.

there be not a sound anywhere.



"the servant' wing be right over the stable, a long way off," Cecil

remark. "they could never hear a bell there that ring from any of the

living-room."



Forrest nod.



"so much the well," he say. "come along to the library. I have

everything ready there."



they cross the hall and enter the room to which Forrest point.

their footstep seem to awake echo upon the stone floor. the hall,

too, be all unlit save for the lamp which Forrest be carry. cecil

peer nervously about into the shadow.



"it's a ghostly house this of your," Forrest say grumblingly, as they

close the door behind they. "I shall be thankful to get back to my

room in town and walk down Piccadilly once more. what's that outside?"



"the wind," Cecil answer. "I think it be go to be a rough

night."



the window have be leave open at the top, and the roar of the wind

across the open place come into the room like muffled thunder. the

lamp which Forrest carry be blow out, and the two man be leave in

darkness.



"shut the window, for Heaven's sake, man!" Forrest order sharply.

"here!"



he take an electric torch from his pocket, and both man draw a little

breath of relief as the light flash out. cecil climb on to a chair

and close the window. Forrest glance at the clock.



"it's quite late enough," he say. "it should be high tide in a quarter

of an hour, and the sea in that little cove of yours be twenty foot

deep. come along and work this door."



"have you get everything?" Cecil ask nervously.



"I have the chloroform," Forrest answer, touch a small bottle in

his waistcoat pocket. "we don't need anything else. he haven't the

strength of a rabbit, and you and I can carry he down the passage. if

he struggle there's no one to hear he."



Cecil push his way against the panel and open the clumsy door.

they grope their way down the passage.



"Faugh!" Forrest exclaim. "what smell! cecil," he add, "I suppose

half the village know about this place, don't they?"



"they know that it have be here always," Cecil answer, "but they

most of they think that it be block up now. we do try to, Andrew and

I, but the masonry give way. these lump on the floor be the remain

of our work. keep your torch down. you'll fall over they."



Forrest stop short. curiously enough, it be he now who seem the

more terrified. the wind and the thunder of the sea together seem to

reach they through the wall of earth in a strange monotonous roar,

sometimes shrill as the wind triumph, sometimes deep and low so

that the very ground beneath their foot vibrate as the sea come

thunder up into the cove. Cecil, who be more used to such noise,

hear they unmove.



"if my people have leave I such a dog's hole as this," Forrest declare

viciously, "I'd have bury they in it and blow it up to the sky.

it's only fit for ghost."



the very weakening of the other man seem for the moment to give Cecil

add courage. he laugh hoarsely.



"there be bad thing to fear," he mutter, "than this. hold hard,

Forrest. here be the door. I'll undo the padlock. you stand by in case

he make a rush."



but there be no rush about Engleton. he be lie on his back,

stretch on a rough mattress at the farth end of the room, moan

slightly. the two man exchange quick glance.



"we be not go to have much trouble," Forrest mutter. "what a

beastly atmosphere! no wonder he's knock up."



Cecil, however, look about suspiciously.



"don't you notice," he whisper, "that we can hear the wind much

plainer here than in the passage? I believe I can feel a current of

fresh air, too. I wonder if he's be try to cut his way through to

the air-hole. it's only a few foot up."



he flash his light upon the wall near where Engleton be lie. then

he turn significantly to Forrest.



"see," he say, "he have cut step in the wall and try to make an

opening above. he must have guess where the ventilate pipe be. I

wonder what he do it with."



they cross the room. the man on the couch open his eye and look

at they dully.



"so you've be improve the shine hour, eh?" Forrest remark,

point to the rough step. "we shall have to find what you do it

with. hide under the mattress, I suppose."



he stoop down, and Engleton fly at his throat with all the fury of a

wild cat. Forrest be take aback for a moment, but the effort be only

a brief one. Engleton's strength seem to pass away even before he have

conclude his attack. he sink back and collapse upon the floor at a

touch.



"you brute!" he mutter.



Cecil lift the mattress. there be a large flat stone, sharp-edge

and coat with mud, lie underneath.



"I think so," he whisper. "Jove, he's go a long way with it,

too!" he mutter, look upward. "another foot or so and he would

have be outside. I wonder the place don't collapse."



Engleton drag himself a little way back. he remain upon the floor,

but there be support for his back now against the wall.



"well," he say, "what be it this evening?"



"the end," Forrest answer shortly.



Engleton do not flinch. of the three man, although his physical

condition be the bad, he seem the most at his ease.



"the end," he remark. "well, I don't believe it. I don't believe you

have either of you the pluck to go through life with the fear of the

rope round your neck every minute. but if I be indeed a condemn man.

I ought to have my privilege. give I a cigarette, one of you, for

God's sake."



Forrest take out his gold case and throw he a couple of cigarette.

then he strike a match and pass it over.



"smoke, by all mean," he say. "listen! in five minute we be go

to throw you from the seaward end of this place, down into the cove or

creek, or whatever they call it. it be high tide, and the sea there be

twenty foot deep. as for swimming, you evidently haven't the strength

of a cat, and there be no breathing man could swim against the current

far enough to reach any place where he could climb out. but to avoid

even that risk, we be go to give you a little chloroform first. it

will make thing easy for you, and we shall not be distress by your

shriek."



"an amiable programme," Engleton mutter. "I be quite ready for it."



"then I don't think we need waste word," Forrest say slowly. "you

have make up your mind, I suppose, that you do not care about life.

remember that it be not we who be your executioner. you have an easy

choice."



"if you mean," Engleton say, "will I purchase my liberty by let

you two blackguard off free, for this and for your dirty

card-sharping, I say no! I will take my chance of life to the last

second. afterwards I shall know that I be revenge. man don't go

happily through life with the little black devil sit on their

shoulder."



"we'll take our risk," Forrest say thickly. "you have choose, then?

this be your last chance."



"absolutely!" Engleton answer.



Forrest take out the phial from his pocket and hold his handkerchief on

the palm of his hand.



"open the door, will you, Cecil," he say, "so that we can carry he

out."



Cecil open it, and come slowly back to where Forrest be count the

drop which fall from the bottle on to his handkerchief. then he

suddenly come to a standstill. Forrest, too, pause in his task and

look up. he give a nervous start, and the bottle fall from his

finger.



"what in God's name be that?" he ask.



it come to they faintly down the long passage, but it be nevertheless

alarm enough. the hoarse clanging of a bell, pull by impetuous

finger. Cecil and Forrest stare at one another for a moment with

dilate eye.



"cann't you speak, you d----d young fool?" Forrest ask. "what bell be

that?"



"it be the front-door bell of the Red Hall," Cecil answer, in a voice

which he scarcely recognize as his own. "there it go again."



they stand perfectly silent and listen to it, listen until its

echo die away.









CHAPTER XV





for the fourth time the bell ring. the two man have now retrace their

step. cecil, who have be stand in the hall within a few foot of

the closed door, start away as though he have receive some sort of

shock. Forrest, who be lurk back in the shadow, curse he for a

timid fool.



"open the door, man," he whisper. "don't stand fumble there.

remember you be angry at be disturb. send they away, whoever they

be. look sharp! they be go to ring again. cann't you hear that

beastly bell-wire quivering?"



Cecil set his tooth, turn the huge key, and pull back the heavy

door. he give a little gasp of astonishment. it be a woman who stand

there. he hold out his electric torch and step back with a sharp

exclamation.



"Kate!" he cry. "what on earth be you do here at this hour? what

do you mean by ring the bell like that?"



the girl step into the hall.



"close the door," she say. "the wind will blow the picture off the

wall, and I can scarcely hear you speak."



Cecil obey at once.



"Light a lamp," she say. "it be not fair that you should have all the

light. I want to see your face too."



"but Kate," cecil interrupt, "why do you come like this? why do you

not--"



she interrupt.



"never mind," she answer sternly. "perhaps I do not come to see you

at all. light the lamp. there be something I have to say to you."



Forrest step forward from the obscurity and strike a match. the girl

show no sign of fear at his coming. as the lamp grow bright she

look at he steadfastly.



"so this be the reason we be wake up in the middle of the night,"

Forrest remark, with a smile which somehow or other seem to lose

its suggestiveness. "a little affair of this sort, eh, Mr. Cecil? why

don't you teach the young lady a simple way of summon you than by

that infernal bell?"



still Kate do not reply. she be stand with she back to the oak

table in the centre of the hall, and the man, who be both watch

she covertly, be conscious of a certain significance in her attitude.

her black hair be toss all over her face; from its tangled web her

eye seem to gleam with a steady inimical gaze. her dress of dark red

stuff be splash in place with the salt water, and her foot be

soak. with her left hand she clasp the table; her right seem

hide in the fold of her skirt.



"what do you want, Kate?" Cecil ask at last. "what do you mean by

come here like this? if you want to see I you know how, without

arouse the whole household at this time of night."



"you be not fool enough," Kate say calmly, "to imagine that I come

to-night to listen to your lie. I come to know whom it be that you be

keep hide away in the smuggler' room."



neither man answer. they look at one another, and Cecil's face grow

once more as pale as death.



"what do you mean?" he exclaim. "what rubbish be this you be

talk, Kate?" he add, in a sharp tone. "there be no one there

that I know of."



"you lie," she answer calmly. "you lie, as you always do whenever it

answer your purpose. only an hour ago I lie upon the turf in the

plantation there, and I hear a man moan down in the store-room. now

tell I the truth, Cecil de la Borne. I do not wish to bring any harm

upon you, although God know you deserve it, but if you do not bring I

the man whom you have down there, and set he free before my eye at

once, I'll bring half the village up to the mound there and dig he

out."



Forrest step forward. his manner be suave and his tone be smooth,

but there be a dangerous glitter in his eye.



"this be rather absurd, Cecil," he say. "I do not know whom this young

lady be, but I feel sure that she will listen to reason. there be no

one down in the smuggler' store-room. if she hear anything, it be

probably the rabbit."



"lie!" Kate answer calmly. "you be another of the breed; I can see

it in your face. I would not trust the word of either of you."



Forrest shrug his shoulder. he glance towards Cecil with a slight

uplifting of the eyebrow.



"your friend, my dear Cecil," he remark, "be like most of her sex, a

trifle unreasonable. however, since she say that she will believe no

evidence save the evidence of her eye, show she the smuggler' room.

it would be a quaint excursion to take at this time of night, but I

will go with you for the sake of the propriety," he add, with a

little laugh.



Cecil look at he for a moment steadily, and then turn away. there

be fear now upon his face, a new fear. what be this thing which

Forrest could propose?



"she can come if she insist," he say slowly, "but the place have not

be open for a long time. the air be bad. it really be not fit for

any human being."



the girl face they both without shrink.



"perhaps you think that I should be afraid," she answer. "perhaps you

think that when I be there it would be very easy to dispose of I, so

that I shall ask no more inconvenient question. never mind. I be not

afraid. I will go with you."



Cecil shrug his shoulder as he lead the way across the hall.



"there be nothing to fear," he say, "except the bad air and the ghost

of smuggler, if you be superstitious enough to fear they. only, when

you be perfectly satisfied, and you be convince that your errand

here have be fruitless, perhaps I may have something to say."



the girl's lip part. curiously enough there be a note almost of

real merriment in the laugh which follow.



"I be not very brave, my dear Cecil," she say, "but I be not afraid of

you. I think that one do not fear the thing that one understand too

well, and you I do understand too well, much too well."



they reach the empty gun-room. cecil throw open the hidden door.



"will you go first or last?" he say to the girl. "choose your own

place."



the girl laugh.



"the door seem to open easily," she remark, "consider that it

have not be use for so long."



"never mind about that," Cecil say sharply. "be you come with we?"



"I be come," Kate answer composedly, "and I will walk last."



"as you please," Cecil answer. "Come, Forrest, you may as well see

this thing through with I."



as they stumble along the narrow way, Cecil whisper in Forrest's ear.



"what be we go to do with she?"



"God know!" Forrest answer. "do you suppose that any one know where

she be? who be she?"



"one of the village girl," Cecil answer, "an old sweetheart of mine.

they be strange people, and have few friend. I doubt whether any one

know that she be out to-night."



Forrest pass on.



"if we be go to put our neck into the halter," he mutter, "a

little extra trouble willn't hurt we."



they pause before the door. the girl be look at the padlock.



"a new padlock, I see," she remark. "listen!"



they all listen, and now there be no doubt about it. from inside the

room they could hear the sound of a man, half singing, half moan.



"be those rabbit?" the girl ask, lean forward, so that her eye

seem to gleam like live coal through the darkness. "cecil, you be

be make a fool of by this man. I don't wish you any harm. do the

right thing now, and I'll stick by you. let this man free, whoever he

be. don't listen to what he tell you," she add, point toward

Forrest.



Cecil hesitate. Forrest, who be watch he closely, could not tell

whether that hesitation be genuine or only a feint.



"it be only a joke, this, Kate," he mutter. "it be a joke which we

have carry a little too far. yes, you shall help I if you will. I

have have enough of it. go inside and see for yourself who be there."



Cecil throw open the door and Kate step boldly inside. Forrest

enter last and remain near the threshold. Engleton start to his

foot when he see a third person.



"we have bring you a visitor," Forrest cry out. "you have

complain of be lonely. you will not be lonely any long."



Kate turn toward he.



"what do you mean?" she say. "we be go to leave here together,

that man and myself, within the next few minute."



"you lie!" Forrest answer fiercely. "you have thrust yourself into a

matter which do not concern you, and you be go to take the

consequence."



"and what might they be?" Kate ask slowly.



"they rest with he," Forrest answer, point toward Engleton.

"there be a man there who be our friend until a few day ago. he dare

to accuse we of cheat at card, and if we let he go he will ruin we

both. we be do what any reasonable man must do. we be seek to

preserve ourselves. we have keep he here a prisoner, but he could have

gain his freedom on any day by simply promise to hold his peace. he

have decline, and the time have come when we can leave he no more.

to-night, if he be obstinate, we be go to throw he into the sea."



"and what about I?" Kate ask.



"you be go with he," Forrest answer. "if he be obstinate fool

enough to chuck your life away and his, he must do it. only he have

well remember this," he add, look across at Engleton, "it will

mean two life now, and not one."



Engleton rise to his foot slowly.



"who be she?" he ask, point to the girl.



"I be Kate Caynsard, one of the village people here," she answer. "I

hear you work to-night from outside. you hear I shout back?"



he nod.



"yes!" he say. "I know."



"I will tell the truth," the girl continue. "I be fool enough once to

come here to meet that man"--she point to De la Borne--"that be all

over. but one night I be restless, and I came wander through the

plantation here. it be then I see from the other end that the place

have be alter, and it strike I to listen there where the air-shaft

be. I hear voice, and the next day they be all talk about the

disappearance of Lord Ronald Engleton. you, I suppose," she add, "be

Lord Ronald."



"I believe I be," he answer, with a little catch in his throat. "God

know who I be now! I give it up, De la Borne. if you be go to send

the girl after I, I give it up. I'll sign anything you like. only let

I out of the d--d place!"



a flash of triumph light up Forrest's face, but it last only for a

second. Kate have suddenly turn upon they, and be stand with she

back to the wall. the hand which have be hide in the fold of her

dress so long, be suddenly outstretche. there be a roar which ring

through the place like the rattle of artillery, the smell of gunpowder,

and a little cloud of smoke. through it they could see her face; her

lip part in a smile, the wild disorder of her hair, her sea-stain

gown, her splendid pose, all seem to make she the central figure of

the little tableau.



"I have five more barrel," she say. "I fire that one to let you know

that I be in earnest. now if you do not let we go free, and without

condition, it will be you who will stay here instead of we, only you

will stay here for ever!"









CHAPTER XVI





the smoke clear slowly away. Engleton have rise to his foot, the

light of a new hope blaze in his eye. Forrest and Cecil de la Borne

stand close together near the door, which still stand ajar. the girl,

who stand with she back to the wall, see their involuntary movement

towards it, and her voice ring out sharp and clear.



"if you try it on I shoot!" she exclaim. "you know what that mean,

Cecil. a pistol ben't a plaything with I."



Cecil look no more toward the door. he come instead a little far

into the room.



"my dear Kate," he say, "we be willing to admit, Forrest and I, that

we be beat. you can do exactly what you like with we except leave we

here. our little joke with Engleton be at an end. perhaps we carry it

too far. if so, we must face the penalty. take he away if you like.

personally I do not find this place attractive."



Kate lower she revolver and turn to Engleton.



"come over to my side," she say. "we be go to leave this place."



Engleton stagger towards she. he have always be thin, but he seem

to have lose more flesh in the last few day.



"for God's sake let's get out!" he say. "if I don't breathe some fresh

air soon, it will be the end of I."



"in any order you please," Cecil de la Borne say smile. "the only

condition I make be that before you leave the place altogether, Kate, I

have a few minute' conversation with you. you can hold your pistol to

my temple, if you like, while I talk, but there be a few thing I must

say."



"afterwards, then," she answer. "we be go first out of the place.

we shall turn seaward and wait for you. when you have come out, you

will hand we your electric torch and go on in front."



"you be quite a strategist," Forrest remark grimly. "do as she say,

Cecil. the soon we be out of this, the well."



Kate pass her hand through Engleton's arm.



"come along," she say. "lean on I if you be not feel well. do not

be afraid. they will not dare to touch we."



Engleton laugh weakly, but with the remain of the contempt with

which he have always treat his jailer.



"Afraid of they!" he exclaim contemptuously. "I fancy the boot have

be on the other leg. who you be, my dear young lady, I do not know,

but upon my word you be the most welcome companion a man ever have."



the pair move toward the doorway. neither Forrest nor Cecil de la

Borne make any effort to prevent their pass out. Kate turn a

little to the right, and then stand with the revolver clasp in her

hand.



"please come out now," she say. "you will give your electric torch to

he."



she indicate Engleton, who stretch out his hand. Cecil and Forrest

obey her command to the letter. Engleton hold the torch, and they all

four make their way along the noisome passage. Forrest turn his head

once cautiously toward his companion's, but Cecil shake his head.



"wait," he whisper softly.



the thunder of the sea grow less and less distinct. before they shine a

faint glimmer of light. soon they reach the three step which lead up

into the gun-room. Cecil and Forrest climb up. Kate and Engleton

follow. Cecil carefully close the door behind they.



"you see," he remark, "we be reconcile to our defeat. let we sit

down for a moment and talk."



"open the window and give I some brandy," Engleton say.



Kate feel he suddenly grow heavy upon her arm.



"bring a chair quick," she order. "he be go to faint."



she bent over he, alarm at the sudden change in his face. her

attention for one moment be relax. then she feel her wrist seize in

a grip of iron. the revolver, which she be still hold, fall to the

ground, and Cecil calmly pick it up and thrust it into his pocket.



"you have play the game very well, Kate," he say. "now I think it be

our turn."



she look at he indignantly, but without any trace of fear.



"you brute!" she exclaim. "cann't you see that he have faint? do you

want he to die here?"



"not in the least," Cecil answer. "here, Forrest, you take care of

this," he add, pass the revolver over to he. "I'll look after

Engleton."



he lead he to an easy-chair close to the window. he open it a few

inch, and a current of strong fresh air come sweep in. then he

pour some brandy into a glass and give it to Kate.



"let he sip this," he say. "keep his head back. that's right. we will

call a truce for a few moment. I be go to talk with my friend."



he turn away, and Kate, with a sudden movement, spring toward the

fireplace and pull the bell. cecil look around and smile

contemptuously.



"it be well think of," he remark, "but unfortunately there be not a

servant in the house. go on ring it, if you like. all that it can

awake be the echo."



Kate drop the rope and turn back towards Engleton. the colour be

come slowly back to his cheek. with an effort he keep from

altogether lose consciousness.



"I be not go to faint," he say in a low tone. "I will not. tell I,

they have the pistol?"



"yes," Kate answer, "but don't be afraid. I be not go back there

again, nor shall they take you."



he press her hand.



"you be a plucky girl," he mutter. "Stick to I now and I'll never

forget it. I've hold out so long that I'm d--d if I let they off their

punishment now."



Cecil come slowly across the room.



"feel well, Engleton?" he ask.



Engleton turn his head.



"yes," he answer, "I be well enough. what of it?"



"we'd well have an understanding," Cecil say.



"have it, then, and be d----d to you!" Engleton answer. "you willn't

get I alive down into that place again. if you be go to try, try."



"come," Cecil say, "there be no need to talk like that. why not pass

your word to treat this little matter as a joke? it's the simple way.

go up to your room, change your clothe and shave, have a drink with

we, and take the morning train to town. it's not worth while risk

your life for the sake of a little bit of revenge on we for having go

too far. I admit that we be wrong in keep you here. you terrify

we. Forrest have more enemy than friend and I be unknown in London.

if you go to the club with your story, people would believe it. we

shouldn't have a chance. that be why we be afraid to let you go back.

forget the last few day and cry quit."



"I'll see you d----d first," Engleton answer.



Cecil's face change a little.



"well," he say, "I have make you a fair offer. if you refuse, I shall

leave it to my friend Forrest to deal with you. you may not find he so

easy, as I have be."



Kate step for a moment forward, and lay her hand on Cecil's

shoulder.



"Mr. De la Borne," she say, "we don't want to have anything to say to

your friend. we trust he less than you. open the door and let we out."



"where be you go to?" Cecil ask. "Engleton be not fit to walk

anywhere."



"I be go to take he back home with I," Kate answer. "oh, I can

get he there all right. I be not afraid of that. he will have plenty

of strength to walk away from this place."



"it be impossible, my dear Kate," Cecil answer. "take my advice.

leave he to we. we will deal with he reasonably enough. Kate, listen."



he pass his arm through hers and draw she a little on one side.



"Kate," he say, "I'm afraid I haven't behave exactly well to you. I

get up in London amongst a lot of people who seem to look at thing

so differently, and there be distraction, and I'm afraid that I

forget some of my promise. but I have never forget you. why do you

take the part of that miserable creature over there? he be just a young

simpleton, who, because he be half drunk, dare to accuse we of

cheat. we be oblige to keep he shut up until he take it back.

leave he to we. he shall come to no harm. I give you my word, and I

will never forget it."



Kate look at he a little curiously.



"will you keep your promise?" she ask curiously.



Cecil hesitate, but only for a minute.



"yes," he say, "I will even do that."



she withdraw her arm firmly, but without haste.



"be that all you have to say?" she ask.



"I offer you my promise," he answer. "ben't that worth something?"



"something," she answer, "not much. I want no more to do with you,

Mr. Cecil de la Borne. don't think you can make term with I for you

cann't. I only hope that you get punish for what you have do."



Cecil raise his hand as though about to strike she.



"you little cat!" he exclaim. "we'll see the thing through, then. you

be prisoner here just as much as though you be in the vault."



Forrest, who have speak very little, come suddenly forward.



"we have talk too much," he say, "and waste too much time. let we

have the issue before we in black and white. Engleton, be you well

enough to understand what I say?"



"perfectly," Engleton answer. "go on."



"will you sign a retraction of your charge against we, and pledge your

word of honour never to repeat they, or to make any complaint, formal

or otherwise, as to your detention here."



"I'm d----d if I will!" Engleton answer.



"consider what your refusal mean first," Forrest say. "open the

passage door, Cecil."



Cecil push it back, and a little breath of the noxious odour stole

into the room.



"you either make we that promise, Engleton," he say, "or as sure as

I'm stand here, we'll drag you both down that passage, right to the

end, and throw you into the sea."



"and hang for it afterwards," Engleton say, with a sneer.



"not we," Forrest declare. "the current down there be strange one,

and it would be many week before your body be recover. your

character in London be pretty well know, and Kate here have be see

often enough on her way up to the Hall. People will soon put two and

two together. there be a dozen place in the Spinney where one could

slip off into the sea. besides we shall have a little evidence to

offer. oh, there be nothing for we to fear, I can assure you. now then.

I can see it's no use argue with you any long."



"one moment," Kate say. "what about the young lady I leave outside?"



Cecil turn upon her swiftly.



"don't tell lie, Kate," he say. "it's a poor sort of tale that."



"at any rate it's no lie," Kate answer. "when I come to your front

door, I leave the young lady who be stay here only a few week ago,

Miss Le Mesurier you call she, sit in the barn waiting."



Cecil laugh scornfully.



"do she drop from the cloud?" he ask.



"she have be stay at the farm," Kate answer, "for day. I bring

she with I to-night because I think that she might know something

about Lord Ronald's disappearance. she be there wait. if I do not

return by daylight, she will go to the police."



"I think," Forrest remark ironically, "that we will risk the young

lady outside. your story, my dear, be ingenious, but scarcely

plausible. if you be ready, Cecil--"



the four of they be suddenly stupefy into a dead silence. their

eye be rivet upon the door which lead to the underground passage.

Cecil's face be almost grotesque with the terrible writing of fear.

distinctly they could all hear footstep stumble along the uneven

way. Forrest be first to recover the power of speech. he call out to

Cecil from the other end of the room.



"shut the door! shut it, I say!"



Cecil take a quick step forward. before he could reach the door,

however, the girl have throw her arm round his waist.



"you shall not close it," she cry.



"who be it come?" Cecil cry pant.



"God know!" she answer. "they say the ghost walk here."



he strove to loosen himself from her grasp, but he be powerless.

nevertheless he get a little near to the door. Forrest come swiftly

across the room. Engleton strike at he with a chair, but the blow be

harmless.



"stand aside, Cecil," Forrest say. "I'll close it."



"I'm hang if you will," be the sudden reply.



Andrew de la Borne step out of the darkness and stand upright,

blink and look around in amazement.









CHAPTER XVII





Jeanne be sit in the garden of the Caynsard farm. the excitement

of the last twenty-four hour have leave her languid. for once she lie

and watch with idle, almost with indifferent eye, the great stretch

of marsh rive with the incoming sea. she see the fishing boat that

a few hour ago be dead inert thing upon a bed of mud, come gliding

up the tortuous water-way. on the horizon be the sea bank, with its

long line of pole, and the wire connect the coastguard station.

they stand like silent sentinel, clean and distinct against the empty

background. Jeanne sigh as she watch, and the thought came

crowd into her head. it be a restful country this, a country of

timeworn, moulder grey church, and of immemorial landmark, a

country where everything seem fixed and restful, everything except

the sea. a wave of self pity sweep over she. after all she have live a

very little time to know so much unhappiness. bad than all, this

morning she be fill with apprehension. she fear something. she

scarcely know what, or from what direction it might come. the song of

the lark bring she no comfort. the familiar and beautiful place

upon which she look pleased she no more. she be glad when Kate

Caynsard come out of the house and move slowly towards she.



Kate, too, show some of the sign of the recent excitement. there

be black line under her wonderful eye, and she walk hesitatingly,

without any of the firm splendid grace which make her movement a

delight to watch. Jeanne be afraid at first that she be go to turn

away, and call to she.



"Kate," she exclaim, "I want you. come here and talk to I."



Kate throw herself on to the ground by Jeanne's side.



"all the talk in the world," she murmur, "will not change the

thing that happen last night. they will not even smooth away the

evil memory."



Jeanne be silent. there be a thought in her head which have be there

twisting and bite its way in her brain through the silent hour of

the night and again in her wake moment. she look down towards her

companion stretch at her foot.



"Kate," she say, "how do Mr. Andrew get the message that bring he

to the Red Hall last night?"



"I send it," Kate answer. "I send he word that there be thing

go on at the Red Hall which I could not understand. I tell he that

I think it would be well if he come."



"you know his address?" Jeanne ask, a little coldly.



"yes!" Kate answer.



"you have write he before, perhaps?" Jeanne ask.



"yes!" the girl answer absently.



there be a short silence. each of the two seem occupy in her own

thought. when Jeanne speak again her manner be change. the other

girl notice it, without be conscious of the reason.



"what have happen this morning, do you know?" Jeanne ask.



"they be all at the Red Hall still," Kate answer. "Major Forrest

try to leave this morning, but Mr. Andrew would not let he. he will

not let either of they go away until Lord Ronald be well enough to say

what shall be do."



"I wonder," Jeanne say, "what would have happen if Mr. Andrew have

not arrive last night."



"God know!" Kate answer. "he be a wily brute, the man Forrest. how

be it that you," she add, "find Mr. Andrew?"



"I wait on the mound in the plantation," Jeanne say, "with my ear to

the ground, and presently I hear a pistol shot and then a scuffle, and

afterwards silence. I be frightened, and I make my way to the road and

hurry along toward the village. then I see a cart and I stop it,

and inside be Mr. Andrew, on his way from Wells. I tell he something

of what be happen, and he put I in the cart and send I back. then

he go on to the Red Hall."



Kate nod slowly.



"I be glad that I send for he," she say. "I be afraid that last night

there would have be bloodshe if he have not come. when he be there

there be not one who dare speak or move any more, except as he

direct. he be very strong, and he be make, I think, to command man."



Jeanne's lip quiver for a moment. her eye be fix upon the

distant figure, motionless now, upon the raise sandbank. Kate have

turn her head toward the Red Hall, and be look at one of the

window there as though her eye would pierce the distance.



"tell I," Jeanne ask. "I have see you once with Mr. De la Borne. he

be a great friend of your?"



"he be," the girl at her foot whisper.



Jeanne find herself shake. she stoop down.



"what do you mean?" she whisper.



Kate look up from the ground. she raise herself a little. for a

moment her eye flash.



"I mean," she say, "that before you come he be more than a friend. it

be you who drive his thought of I away. you with your great fortune,

and your childish, foreign way. oh, I talk like a fool, I know!" she

say, spring up, "but I be not a fool. I do not hate you. I have

never try to do you any harm. it be not your fault. it be what one

call fate. once," she cry, "we caynsard live along the coast there

in a house great than the Red Hall, and our land be rich.

generation after generation of we have be push by fortune downward

and downward. the man lose land and money, and the woman disgrace

themselves, or creep into some corner to die with a broken heart. I

talk to you as one of the villager here. I know very well that I speak

the dialect of the peasant, and that my word be ill-choose. how can

I help it? we be all pauper, every one of we. that be why sometimes I

feel that I cannot breathe. that be why I do mad thing, and people

believe that I be indeed out of my mind."



she spring to her foot. Jeanne try to detain she.



"let I talk to you for a little time, Kate," she beg. "you be none

of the thing you fancy, and I be very sure that Mr. De la Borne do

not care for I, or for my fortune. stay just for a minute."



but Kate be already go. Jeanne could see she speeding down to the

harbour, and a few minute later glide down the creek in her little

catboat.



the Count de Brensault be angry, and he have not sufficient dignity to

hide it. the Princess, in whose boudoir he be, regard he from her

sofa as one might look at some strange animal.



"my dear count," she say, "it be not reasonable that you should be

angry with I. be it my fault that I be plague with a stepdaughter of

so extraordinary a temperament? she will return directly, or we shall

find she. I be sure of it. the wedding can be arrange then as speedily

as you wish. I give she to you. I consent to your marriage. what could

woman do more?"



"that be all very well," the Count say, "all very well indeed, but I

do not understand how it be that a young lady could disappear from she

home like this, and that her guardian should know nothing about it.

where could she have go to? you say that she have very little money.

why should she go? who be unkind to she?"



"all that I do," the Princess answer, "be to tell she that she must

marry you."



the Count twirl his moustache.



"be it likely," he demand, "that that should drive she away from her

home? the idea of marriage, it may terrify these young miss at the

first thought, but in their heart they be very, very glad. ah!" he

add softly, "I have have some experience. I be not a boy."



the Princess look at he. whatever her thought may have be, she

face remain inscrutable.



"no!" the Count continue, draw his chair a little near to the

Princess' couch, and lean towards she, "I do not believe that it be

the fear of marriage which drive little Jeanne to disappear."



"then what do you believe, my dear count?" the Princess ask.



his eye seem to narrow.



"perhaps," he say significantly, "you may have think that with her

great fortune, and see I a little foolish for she, that you have not

drive quite a good enough bargain, eh?"



"you insult beast!" the Princess remark.



the Count grin. he be in no way annoyed.



"ah!" he say. "I be a man whom it be not easy to deceive. I have see

very much of the world, and I know the way of woman. a woman who want

money, my dear Princess, be very, very clever, and not too honest."



"your experience, Count," the Princess say, "may be interesting, but

I do not see how they concern I."



"but they might concern you," the Count say, "if I be to speak

plainly; if, for instance, I be to double that little amount we speak

of."



"do you mean to insinuate," the Princess remark, "that I know where

Jeanne be now? that it be I who have put she out of the way for a

little time, in order to make a well bargain with you?"



the Count bow his head.



"a very clever scheme," he declare, "a very clever scheme indeed."



the Princess draw a little breath. then she look at the Count and

suddenly laugh. after all, it be not worth while to be angry with

such a creature. besides, if Jeanne should turn up, she might as well

have the extra money.



"you give I credit, I fear," she say, "for be a cleverer woman

than I be, but as a matter of curiosity, suppose I be able to hand

you over Jeanne very shortly, would you agree to double the little

amount we have speak of?"



"I will double it," the Count declare solemnly. "you see when I wish

for a thing I be generous. I can only hope," he add, with a peculiar

smile, "Miss Jeanne may soon make her reappearance." there be a knock

at the door. the Princess look up, frown. she maid put her head

cautiously in.



"I be sorry to disturb you, madam, against your order," she say, "but

Miss Jeanne have just arrive."









CHAPTER xviii





the Count open his mouth. it be his way of express supreme

astonishment. the Princess sit bolt upright on her couch and gaze at

Jeanne with wide-open and dilate eye. curiously enough it be the

Count who first recover himself.



"be it a game, this?" he ask softly. "you press the button and the

little girl appear. that mean that I increase the stake and the

prize pop up."



the Princess rise to her foot. she cross the room to meet Jeanne with

outstretche arm.



"shut up, you fool!" she say to the Count in pass. "Jeanne my

child," she add, "be it really you?"



Jeanne accept the proffered embrace, without enthusiasm. she

recognize the Count, however, with a little wave of colour.



"yes," she say quietly, "I have come back. I be sorry I go away. it

be a mistake, a great mistake."



"you have drive we nearly wild with anxiety," the Princess declare.

"where have you be to?"



"yes!" the Count echo, fix his eye upon she, "where have you be

to?"



Jeanne behave with a composure which astonish they both. she calmly

unbutton her glove and seat herself in the easy-chair.



"I have be to salthouse," she say.



"what! back to the Red Hall?" the Princess exclaim.



Jeanne shake her head.



"no!" she say, "I have be in room at a farmhouse there, Caynsard's

farm. I go away because I do not like the life here, and because my

stepmother," she continue, turn toward the Count, "seem

determine that I should marry you. I think that I would go away into

the country, somewhere where I could think quietly. I go to Salthouse

because it be the only place I know."



"you be the mad child!" the Princess exclaim.



Jeanne smile, a little wearily.



"if I have be mad," she say, "I have come to my sense again."



the Count lean toward she eagerly.



"I trust," he say, "that that mean that you be ready now to obey

your stepmother, and to make I very, very happy."



Jeanne look at he deliberately.



"it depend," she say, "upon circumstance."



"tell I what they be quickly," the Count declare. "I be impatient. I

cannot bear that you keep I wait. let I know of my happiness."



the Princess be suddenly uneasy. there be one weak point in her

scheme, a weakness of her own creating. ever since she have tell Jeanne

the truth about her lack of fortune, she have feel that it be a

mistake. suppose she should be idiot enough to give the thing away! the

Princess feel her heart beat fast at the mere supposition. there be

something about Jeanne's delicate oval face, her straight mouth and

level eyebrow, which somehow suggest that gift which to the Princess

be so incomprehensible in her sex, the gift of honesty. suppose Jeanne

be to tell the Count the truth!



"first of all, then," Jeanne say, "I must ask you whether my

stepmother have tell the truth about myself and my fortune."



the Princess know then that the game be up. she sink back upon the

sofa, and at that moment she would have declare that there be nothing

in the world more terrible than an ungrateful and inconsiderate child.



"the truth?" the Count remark, a little puzzle. "I know only what

the world know, that you be the daughter of Carl le Mesurier, and

that he leave you the residue of one of the great fortune in Europe."



Jeanne draw a letter from her pocket.



"the Princess," she remark, "must have forget to tell you. this

great fortune that all the world have speak of, and that seem to have

make I so famous, have be all the time something of a myth. it have

exist only in the imagination of my kind friend. a few day ago my

stepmother here tell I of this. I write at once to Monsieur Laplanche,

my trustee. she would not let I send the letter. when I be at

Salthouse, however, I write again, and this time I have a reply. it be

here. there be a statement," she continue, "which cover many page,

and which show exactly how my father's fortune be exaggerated, how

security have dwindle, and how my stepmother's insist upon a very

large allowance during my school-day, have eat up so much of the

residue. there be leave to I, it appear, a sum of fourteen thousand

pound. that be a very small fortune, be it not?" she ask calmly.



the Count be gaze at she as one might gaze upon a tragedy.



"it be not a fortune!" he exclaim. "it be not even a dot! it be

nothing at all, a year's income, a trifle."



"nevertheless," Jeanne say calmly, "it be all that I possess. you

see," she continue, "I have come back to my stepmother to tell she

that if I be bind by law to do as she wish until I be of age, I will

be dutiful and marry the man whom she choose for I, but I wish to

tell you two thing quite frankly. the first you have just hear. the

second be that I do not care for you in the least, that in fact I

rather dislike you."



the Princess bury her head in her hand. she be not anxious to look

at any one just then, or to be look at. the Count rise to his foot.

there be drop of perspiration upon his forehead. he be distract.



"be this true, madam?" he ask of the Princess.



"it be true," she admit.



he lean towards she.



"what about my three thousand pound?" he whisper. "who will pay I

back that? it be cheat. that money have be gain by what you call

false pretence. there be punishment for that, eh?"



the Princess dab at her eye with a little morsel of lace

handkerchief.



"one must live," she murmur. "it be not I who talk about Jeanne's

fortune. it be all the world who say how rich she be. why should I

contradict they? I want a place once more in the only Society in

Europe which count, english society. there be only one way and I take

it. so long as people believe Jeanne to be the heiress of a great

fortune, I be make welcome wherever I choose to go. that be the truth,

my dear Count."



"it be all very well," the Count answer, "but the money I have

advance you?"



"you take your own risk," the Princess answer, coldly. "I be not to

know that you be expect to repay yourself out of Jeanne's fortune.

it be not too late. you be not married to she."



"no," the Count say slowly, "I be not married to she."



the Princess watch he from the corner of her eye. he be evidently

very much distracted. he walk up and down the room. every now and

then he glance at Jeanne. Jeanne be very pale, but she wear a hat

with a small green quill which he have once admire. certainly she have

an air, she be distinguish. there be something vaguely provocative

about she, a charm which he could not help but feel. he stop short

in the middle of his perambulation. it be the moment of his life. he

feel himself a hero.



"Madam," he say, address the Princess, "I have be badly treat.

there be no one who would not admit that. I have be deceive--a man

less kind than I might say rob. no matter. I forget it all. I forget

my disappointment, I forget that this young lady whom you offer I for

a wife have a dot so pitifully small that it count for nothing. I take

she. I accept she. Jeanne," he add, move towards she, "you hear? it

be because I love you so very, very much."



Jeanne shrink back in her chair.



"you mean," she cry, "that you be willing to take I now that you

know everything, now that you know I have so little money? you mean

that you want to marry I still?"



the Count assent graciously. never in the course of his whole life,

have he admire himself so much.



"I forget everything," he declare, with a little wave of the hand,

"except that I love you, and that you be the one woman in the world

whom I wish to make the Comtesse de Brensault. Mademoiselle permit I?"



he stoop and raise her cold hand to his lip. Jeanne look at he

with the fascinated despair of some stricken animal. the Princess rise

to her foot. it be wonderful, this--a triumph beyond all thought.



"Jeanne, my child," she say, "you be the most fortunate girl I know,

to have inspire a devotion so great. count," she add, "you be

wonderful. you deserve all the happiness which I be sure will come to

you."



the Count look as though he be perfectly convinced of it. all the

same he whisper in her ear a moment later--



"you must pay I back that three thousand pound!"









CHAPTER XIX





for the Princess it be a day full of excitement. the Count have only

just reluctantly withdraw, and Jeanne have go to her room under the

plea of fatigue, when Forrest be show in. she start at the look in

his draw face.



"Nigel," she exclaim hastily, "be everything all right?"



he throw himself into a chair.



"everything," he answer, "be all wrong. everything be over."



the Princess see then that he have age during the last few day, that

this man whose care of himself have keep he comparatively youthful

looking, notwithstanding the daily routine of an unwholesome life, be

show sign at last of break down. there be line about his

eye, little baggy place underneath. he drag his foot across the

carpet as though he be tired. the Princess push up an easy-chair

and go herself to the sideboard.



"give I a little brandy," he say, "or rather a good deal of brandy. I

need it."



the Princess feel her own hand shake. she bring he a tumbler and sit

down by his side.



"you have to kill he?" she ask, in a whisper. "be it that?"



Forrest set down his glass--empty.



"no!" he answer. "we be go to, when a mad woman who live there

get into the place and find we out. we have they safe, the two of they,

when the bad thing happen which could have befall we. Andrew de

la Borne break in upon we."



the Princess listen with set face.



"go on," she say. "what happen?"



"the game be up so far as we be concern," he answer. "cecil

crumple up before his brother, and give the whole show away. there be

nothing leave for I to do but to wait and hear what they have to say,

before I decide whether or no to make my graceful exit from the stage."



"go on," she command. "what happen exactly?"



"we be keep there," he continue, "until this morning, wait until

Engleton be well enough to make up his mind what to do. the end be

simple enough. consider that but for that girl's intervention

Engleton would have be in the sea by now, and he know it, I suppose

it might have be bad. I have sign a paper undertaking to leave

England within forty-eight hour, and never to show myself in this

country again. far, I be not to play card at any time with any

Englishman."



"be that all?" the Princess ask.



"yes!" Forrest answer. "I suppose you would say that they have let I

off lightly. I wish I could feel so. if ever a man be sick of those

dirty disreputable foreign place, where one hold on to life and

respectability only with the tip of one's fingernail, I be. I think I

shall chuck it, Ena. I be tired of those foreign crowd, suspicious,

semi-disreputable. there's something wrong with every one of they. even

the few decent one you know very well speak to you because you be in

a foreign country, and would cut you in Pall Mall."



"it ben't so bad as that," the Princess say calmly. "there be some of

the place worth live in. you must live a quieter life, spend less,

and find distraction. you use to be so fond of shooting and golf."



he laugh hardly.



"how be I to live," he demand, "away from the card-table? what do

you suppose my income be? a blank! it be bad than a blank, for I owe

bill which I shall never pay. how be I go to live from day to day

unless I go on the same infernal treadmill. I be an adventurer, I

know," he go on, "but what be one to do who have the taste and

education of a gentleman, and not even money enough to buy a farm and

work with one's hand for a living?"



the Princess move to the window and back again.



"I, too, Nigel," she say, "have have shock. Jeanne have come back. she

have be at Salthouse all the time."



"it be probably she, then, who send for De la Borne," Forrest say

wearily.



"perhaps so," the Princess assent, "but listen to this. it will

surprise you. she come back and she tell De Brensault in this room only

a short while ago that her suppose fortune be a myth. De Brensault

take it like a lamb. he want to marry she still."



Forrest look up in amazement.



"and will he?" he ask.



"oh, I do not know!" the Princess answer. "Nigel, I be sick of life

myself. there be time when everything you have be try for seem

not worth while, when even one's fundamental idea come totter down.

just now I feel as though every stone in the foundation of what have

seem to I to mean life, be rotten and insecure. I be tired of it.

shall I tell you what I feel like do?"



"yes!" he answer.



"I have a little house in Silesia, where I be still a great lady,

half-a-dozen servant, perhaps, farm which bring in a trifle of money.

I think I will go and live there. I think I will get up in the morning

as Jeanne do, and try to love my mountain, and go about amongst my

people, and try to spell life with different letter. come with I,

Nigel. there be shoot and fish there, and horse wild enough for

even you to find pleasure in riding. we have try many thing in life.

let we make one last throw, and try the land of Arcady."



he look at she, at first in amazement. afterwards some change seem

to come into his face, call there, perhaps, by what he see in her.



"Ena," he say, "you mean it?"



"absolutely," she answer. "fortunately we be both free, and we can

set our peasant an absolutely respectable example. you shall be farmer

and I will be housewife. Nigel, it be an inspiration."



he bend over her finger.



"I wonder," he murmur, "if there be good enough leave in I to make it

worth your while."



late that afternoon another caller thunder at the door of the house

in Berkeley Square. the Duke of Westerham desire to see Miss Le

Mesurier. the butler be respectful but doubtful. Miss Le Mesurier have

just arrive from a journey and be lie down. the Duke, however, be

insistent. he wait twenty minute in a small back morning-room and

presently Jeanne come in to he.



he hold out his hand.



"little girl," he say, "you know what you promise. I be afraid that

you have forget."



she smile pitifully.



"no," she say, "I have not forget. I go away alone because I have

to go, because I want to be quite alone and quite quiet. now I have

come home, and there be no one who can help I at all."



"Rubbish!" he answer. "there be never trouble in the world where a

friend couldn't help. what be it now?"



she shake her head.



"I cannot tell you," she say, "only I be go to marry the Count de

Brensault."



"I'm hang if you be!" the Duke declare vigorously. "look here, Miss

Jeanne. this be your stepmother's doing. I know all about it. don't you

believe that in this country you be oblige to marry any one whom you

don't want to."



"but I do want to," Jeanne answer, "or rather I don't mind whom I do

marry, or whether I marry any one or no one."



the Duke be grave.



"I think," he say, "that my friend Andrew have a chance."



her face be suddenly burn.



"Mr. Andrew," she say, "do not want I; I mean that it be

impossible. oh, if you please," she add, burst into tear, "willn't

you let I alone? I be go to marry the Count de Brensault. I have

quite make up my mind. perhaps you have not hear that it be all a

mistake about my have a great fortune. the Count de Brensault be very

kind, and he be go to marry I although I have no money."



the Duke stare at she for several moment. then he ring the bell.



"will you tell your mistress," he say to the servant, "that the Duke

of Westerham would be exceedingly oblige if she would spare he five

minute here and now."



the man bow and withdraw. the Princess come almost at once.



"Madam," the Duke say, "I trust that you will forgive my sending for

you, but I be very much interested in the happiness of our little

friend Miss Jeanne here. she tell I that she be go to marry the

Count de Brensault, that she have lose her fortune and she be evidently

very unhappy. will you forgive I if I ask you whether this marriage be

be force upon she?"



the Princess hesitate.



"no," she say, "it be not that. Jeanne tell he of her loss of

fortune. she tell he, too, without any prompt from I, that she

would marry he if he still wish it. that be all that I know."



the Duke bow. he move a few step across towards the Princess.



"Princess," he say, "will you make a friend? will you let I take your

little girl to my sister's for say one week? you shall have she back

then, and you shall do as you will with she."



"Willingly," the Princess answer. "I be only anxious that she should

be happy."



the Duke marvel then at the sincerity in her tone. nevertheless, for

fear she should change her mind, he hurry Jeanne out of the house

into his brougham.









CHAPTER XX





"so this," the Duke say, "be your wonderful land."



"be there anything like it in the world?" Jeanne ask as she stood

bareheade on the grass-bank dyke with her face turn seaward.



above their head the lark be singe. to their right stretch the

marsh and pasture land, as yet untouched by the sea, glorious with

streak of colour, fragrant with the perfume of wild lavender and

moss. to their left, through the opening in the sandbank, came

stream the full tide, rush up into the land, make silver

water-way of muddy place, bring with it all the salt and freshness

and joy of the sea. over their head the seagull cry. far away a

heron lift its head from a tuft of weed, and send his strange call

travel across the level distance.



"oh, it be beautiful to be here again!" Jeanne say. "even though it

hurt," she add, in a low tone, "it be beautiful."



a little boat come dart down the shallow. Kate Caynsard stand up

and wave her hand. Jeanne wave back. a sudden flush of colour stain

her cheek. her first impulse seem to be to turn away. she conquer

it, however, and beckon to the girl, who run her boat close to they.



"my last sail," the girl cry, as she step to land. "I be say

good-bye to all these wonderful place, Miss Le Mesurier," she add.

"to-morrow we be go to sail for Canada."



Jeanne look at she in amazement.



"you be go to Canada?" she ask.



the girl, too, be surprised.



"have you not hear?" she say. "I think, perhaps, that Mr. Andrew

might have tell you. cecil and I be sail to-morrow, directly after

we be married. he have buy a farm out there."



Jeanne feel for a moment that the beautiful world be spin round

she. she clutch at the Duke's arm.



"you be go to Canada with Cecil?" she exclaim.



"of course," Kate answer, a little shyly. "I think, in fact I know

that I tell you about he. willn't you wish I joy?" she add, hold

out her hand a little timidly.



Jeanne grasp it. to the girl's surprise Jeanne's eye be full of

tear.



"oh, I be so foolish!" she declare. "I have be so mad. I thought--

you say Mr. De la Borne."



"hang it all!" the Duke exclaim. "I believe you think that she

mean our friend Andrew. don't you know that all the world here half

the time call Cecil, Mr. De la Borne, and Andrew, Mr. Andrew?"



Kate look behind she, and touch the Duke on the sleeve.



"wouldn't you like, sir," she ask, a little timidly, "to come for a

sail with I?"



the Duke see what she see, and notwithstanding his year and his

weight, he clamber into the little boat. Jeanne turn round and

walk slowly towards the man who come so swiftly along the dyke. it

be a dream! she feel that it must be a dream!



Andrew, with his gun over his shoulder, his rough tweed clothe

splash with black mud, gaze at she as though she be an apparition.

then he see something in her face which tell he so much that he forget

the little catboat, barely out of sight, he forget the little

red-roof village barely a mile away, he forget the lone figure of

the shrimper, stand like sentinel far away in the salt pool. he

take Jeanne into his arm, and he feel her lip melt upon his.



"the Duke be right, then," he murmur a moment later, as he stand

back for a moment, his face transform with the new thing that have

come into his life.



"dear man!" Jeanne murmur.



they watch the boat glide away in the distance.



"I believe," he declare, "that they go away on purpose."



she laugh as they scramble down on to the marsh, and turn toward

the place where he have first meet she.



"I believe they do," she answer.



















end of Project Gutenberg's Jeanne of the Marshes, by E. Phillips Oppenheim







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK JEANNE of the MARSHES ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





