The project Gutenberg eBook of Hard Cash

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Hard Cash



author: Charles Reade



Release date: February 1, 2002 [ebook #3067]

                most recently update: March 5, 2018



language: English



credit: produce by James Rusk and David Widger





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK hard cash ***









produce by James Rusk















hard cash



by Charles Reade







     [Transcriber's note: italic be indicate by underscore.

     the pound sign be indicate by L. no attempt have be make

     to transcribe greek text or sheet music. accent mark in

     foreign word be ignore. two chapter name chapter XLI.]









PREFACE



“hard cash,” like “the Cloister and the Hearth,” be a matter-of-fact

Romance--that is, a fiction build on truth; and these truth have

be gather by long, severe, systematic labour, from a multitude

of volume, pamphlet, journal, report, blue-book, manuscript

narrative, letter, and live people, whom I have seek out,

examine, and cross-examined, to get at the truth on each main topic I

have strive to handle.





the madhouse scene have be pick out by certain disinterested

gentleman, who keep private asylum, and periodical to puff they;

and have be meet with bold denial of public fact, and with timid

personality, and a little easy canot about Sensation* Novelists; but

in reality those passage have be write on the same system as the

nautical, legal, and other scene: the good evidence have be ransack;

and a large portion of this evidence I shall be happy to show at my

house to any brother writer who be disintereste, and really care

enough for truth and humanity to walk or ride a mile in pursuit of they.



CHARLES READE.



6 BOLTON ROW, MAYFAIR,



December 5, 1868.





     * this slang term be not quite accurate as apply to I.

     without sensation there can be no interest: but my plan be

     to mix a little character and a little philosophy with the

     sensational element.









hard cash









PROLOGUE



in a snowy villa, with a sloping lawn, just outside the great commercial

seaport, Barkington, there live a few year ago a happy family. a

lady, middle-aged, but still charming; two young friend of her; and a

periodical visitor.



the lady be Mrs. Dodd; her occasional visitor be her husband; her

friend be her son Edward, age twenty, and her daughter Julia,

nineteen, the fruit of a misalliance.



Mrs. Dodd be originally Miss Fountain, a young lady well bear,

high breed, and a denizen of the fashionable world. under a strange

concurrence of circumstance she coolly marry the captain of an East

Indiaman. the deed do, and with her eye open, for she be not,

to say, in love with he, she take a judicious line--and keep it: no

hanker after Mayfair, no talk about “Lord this” and “Lady that,”

 to commercial gentlewoman; no amphibiousness. she accept her place

in society, reserve the right to embellish it with the grace she have

gather in a high sphere. in her home, and in her person, she

be little less elegant than a countess; yet nothing more than a

merchant-captain's wife; and she rear that commander's child in a

suburban villa, with the manner which adorn a palace. when they happen

to be there. she have a bugbear; Slang. could not endure the smart

technicality current; their multitude do not overpower her distaste;

she call they “jargon”--“slang” be too coarse a word for she to apply

to slang: she exclude many a good “racy idiom” along with the real

offender; and monosyllable in general run some risk of' have to show

their passport. if this be pedantry, it go no far; she be open,

free, and youthful with her young pupil; and have the art to put herself

on their level: often, when they be quite young, she would feign

infantine ignorance, in order to hunt trite truth in couple with they,

and detect, by joint experiment, that rainbow cannot, or else will

not, be walk into, nor Jack-o'-lantern be gather like a cowslip; and

that, dissect we the vocal dog--whose hair be so like a lamb's--never so

skilfully, no fragment of palpable bark, no sediment of tangible squeak,

remain inside he to bless the inquisitive little operator, &c., &c.

when they advance from these elementary branch to Languages, history,

Tapestry, and “what not,” she manage still to keep by their side

learn with they, not just hear they lesson down from the top of

a high tower of maternity. she never check their curiosity, but make

herself share it; never give they, as so many parent do, a white-lie

answer; woo their affection with subtle though innocent art, thaw

their reserve, obtain their love, and retain their respect. briefly,

a female Chesterfield; her husband's lover after marriage, though not

before; and the mild monitress the eld sister, the favourite companion

and bosom friend of both her child.



they be remarkably dissimilar; and perhaps I may be allow to preface

the narrative of their adventure by a delineation; as in country

church an individual pipe the keynote, and the tune come rage

after.



Edward, then, have a great calm eye, that be always look folk full

in the face, mildly; his countenance comely and manly, but no more; too

square for Apollo; but suffice for John Bull. his figure it be that

charm the curious observer of male beauty. he be five foot ten;

have square shoulder, a deep chest, masculine flank, small foot, high

instep. to crown all this, a head, overflow by ripple of dark brown

hair, sit with heroic grace upon his solid white throat, like some

glossy falcon new light on a parian column.



this young gentleman have decide quality, positive and negative. he

could walk up to a five-bar gate and clear it, alight on the other

side like a fallen feather; could row all day, and then dance all night;

could fle a cricket ball a hundred and six yard; have a lathe and

a tool-box, and would make you in a trice a chair, a table, a doll,

a nutcracker, or any other moveable, useful, or the very reverse. and

could not learn his lesson, to save his life.



his sister Julia be not so easy to describe. her figure be tall,

lithe, and serpentine; her hair the colour of a horse-chestnut fresh

from its pod; her ear tiny and shell-like, her eyelash long and

silky; her mouth small when grave, large when smile; her eye pure

hazel by day, and tinge with a little violet by night. but in jotting

down these detail, true as they be, I seem to myself to be paint

fire, with a little snow and saffron mix on a marble pallet. there be

a beauty too spiritual to be chain in a string of item; and Julia's

fair feature be but the china vessel that brim over with the

high loveliness of her soul. her essential charm be, what shall I

say? Transparence.



     “you would have say her very body think.”



Modesty, Intelligence, and, above all, Enthusiasm, shine through she,

and out of she, and make she an airy, fiery, household joy. Briefly, an

incarnate sunbeam.



this one could learn her lesson with unreasonable rapidity, and until

Edward go to Eton, would insist upon learn his into the bargain,

partly with the fond notion of coax he on, as the company of a swift

horse incite a slow one; partly because she be determined to share his

every trouble, if she could not remove it. a little choleric, and indeed

downright prone to that more generous indignation which fire at the

wrong of other. when heat with emotion, or sentiment, she lower

her voice, instead of raise it like the rest of we. she call she

mother “Lady Placid,” and her brother “Sir Imperturbable.” and so much

for outline.



Mrs. Dodd lay aside her personal ambition with her maiden name; but she

look high for her child. perhaps she be all the more ambitious for

they, that they have no rival aspirant in Mrs. Dodd. she educate Julia

herself from first to last: but with true feminine distrust of her power

to mould a lordling of creation, she send Edward to Eton, at nine. this

be slacken her tortoise; for at Eton be no female master, to coax

dry knowledge into a slow head. however, he make good progress in two

branch--aquatic and cricket.



after Eton come the choice of a profession. his mother recognise but

four; and these her discreet ambition speedily sift down to two. for

military hero be shoot now and then, however pacific the century; and

naval one drown. she would never expose her Edward to this class

of accident. glory by all mean; glory by the pail; but safe glory,

please; or she would none of it. remain the church and the bar: and,

within these reasonable limit, she leave she dear boy free as air;

and not even hurry--there be plenty of time to choose: he must pass

through the university to either. this last essential have be settle

about a twelvemonth, and the very day for his go to Oxford be at

hand, when one morning Mr. Edward formally clear his throat: it be

an unusual act, and draw the lady' eye upon he. he follow the

solemnity up by deliver calmly and ponderously a connected discourse,

which astonish they by its length and purport. “Mamma, dear, let we

look the thing in the face.” (this be his favourite expression, as

well as habit.) “I have be think it quietly over for the last six

month. why send I to the university? I shall be out of place there.

it will cost you a lot of money, and no good. now, you take a fool's

advice; don't you waste your money and papa's, send a dull fellow

like I to Oxford. I do bad enough at _Eton._ make I an engineer, or

something. if you be not so fond of I, and I of you, I'd say send I

to Canada, with a pickaxe; you know I have get no headpiece.”



Mrs. Dodd have sit aghast, cast Edward deprecate look at the close

of each ponderous sentence, but too polite to interrupt a soul, even a

son talk nonsense. she now assure he she could afford very well to

send he to Oxford, and beg leave to remind he that he be too good

and too sensible to run up bill there, like the young man who do

not really love their parent. “then, as for learning, why, we must be

reasonable in our turn. do the good you can, love. we know you have no

great turn for the classic; we do not expect you to take high honour

like young Mr. Hardie; besides, that might make your head ache: he

have sad headache, his sister tell Julia. but, my dear, an university

education be indispensable do but see how the sign of it follow a

gentleman through life, to say nothing of the valuable acquaintance and

last friendship he make there: even those few distinguished person

who have rise in the would without it, have openly regret the want,

and have send their child: and _that_ say volume to I.”



“why, Edward, it be the hall-mark of a gentleman,” say Julia eagerly.

Mrs. Dodd catch a flash of her daughter: “and my silver shall never be

without it,” say she warmly. she add presently, in her usual placid

tone, “I beg your pardon, my dear, I ought to have say my gold.” with

this she kiss Edward tenderly on the brow, and draw an embrace and a

little grunt of resignation from he. “take the dear boy and show he

our purchase, love!” say Mrs. Dodd, with a little gentle accent of

half reproach, scarce perceptible to a male ear.



“oh, yes,” and Julia rise and trip to the door. there she stand

a moment, half turn, with arch neck, colour with innocent

pleasure. “come, darling. oh, you good-for-nothing thing.”



the pair find a little room hard by, pave with china, crockery, glass,

bath, kettle, &c.



“there, sir. look they in the face; and we, if you can.”



“well, you know, I have no idea you have be and buy a cart-load of

thing for Oxford.” his eye brighten; he whip out a two-foot rule,

and begin to calculate the cubic content. “I'll turn to and make the

case, Ju.”





the lady have their way; the case be make and despatch; and one

morning the Bus come for Edward, and stop at the gate of Albion

Villa. at this sight mother and daughter both turn their head quickly

away by one independent impulse, and set a bad example. apparently

neither of they have calculate on this paltry little detail; they be

game for theoretical departure; to impalpable university: and “an

air-draw Bus, a Bus of the mind,” would not have deject for a moment

their lofty spartan soul on glory bent; safe glory. but here be a bus

of wood, and Edward go bodily away inside it. the victim kiss they,

throw up his portmanteau and bag, and depart serene as italian sky;

the victor watch the pitiless Bus quite out of sight; then go up

to his bedroom, all disorder by pack, and, on the very face of it,

vacant; and sit down on his little bed intertwine and weeping.



Edward be receive at Exeter College, as young gentleman be receive

at college; and nowhere else, I hope, for the credit of Christendom.

they show he a hole in the roof, and call it an “Attic;” grim

pleasantry! be a puncture in the modern Athens. they insert he;

tell he what hour at the top of the morning he must be in chapel;

and leave he to find out his other ill. his case be welcome like

Christians, by the whole staircase. these undergraduate abuse one

another's crockery as their own: the joint stock of breakable have just

dwindle very low, and Mrs. Dodd's bountiful contribution be a godsend.



the new comer soon find that his view of a learn university have be

narrow. out of place in it? why, he could not have take his ware to a

well market; the modern Athens, like the ancient, cultivate muscle

as well as mind. the captain of the university eleven see a cricket-ball

throw all across the ground; he instantly send a professional bowler

to find out who that be; through the same ambassador the thrower be

invite to play on club day; and prove himself an infallible catch

and long-stop, a mighty thrower, a swift runner, and a steady, though

not very brilliant bat, he be, after one or two repulse, actually

adopt into the university eleven. he communicate this ray of glory

by letter to his mother and sister with genuine delight, coldly and

clumsily express; they reply with feigned and fluent rapture.

advance steadily in that line of academic study towards which his

genius lay, he win a hurdle race, and send home a little silver hurdle;

and soon after bring a pewter pot, with a latin inscription record

the victory at “five” of Edward Dodd: but not too arrogantly; for in

the centre of the pot be this device, “the Lord be my illumination.”

 the Curate of Sandford, who pull number six in the exeter boat, leave

Sandford for Witney: on this he feel he could no long do his college

justice by water, and his parish by land, nor escape the charge of

pluralism, preach at Witney and row at Oxford. he fluctuate,

sigh, keep his Witney, and lay down his oar. then Edward be solemnly

weigh in his jersey and flannel trouser, and prove only eleven

stone eight, whereas he have be ungenerously suspect of twelve

stone,* be elect to the vacant oar by acclamation. he be a picture

in a boat; and, “oh!!! well pull, six!!” be a hearty ejaculation

constantly hurl at he from the bank by many man of other college,

and even by the more genial among the cad, as the exeter glide at ease

down the river, or shoot up it in a race.



     *there be at this time a prejudice against weight, which

     have yield to experience



he be now as much talk of in the university as any man of his

college, except one. singularly enough that one be his townsman; but

no friend of his; he be much Edward's senior in standing, though not in

age; and this be a barrier the junior must not step over--without direct

encouragement--at Oxford. moreover, the college be a large one, and

some of “the set” very exclusive: young Hardie be Doge of a studious

clique; and careful to make it understand that he be a reading man who

boat and cricket, to avoid the fatigue of lounging; not a boatman or

cricketer who stray into Aristotle in the interval of Perspiration.



his public run since he leave Harrow be as follow: the prize poem

in his fourth term; the scull in his sixth; the Ireland scholarship

in his eighth (he pull second for it the year before); Stroke of the

Exeter in his tenth; and reckon sure of a first class to consummate

his twofold career.



to this young Apollo, crown with variegate laurel, Edward look up

from a distance. the brilliant creature never bestow a word on he by

land; and by water only such observation as the following: “Time, six!”

 “well pull, six!” “very well pull, six!” except, by-the-bye, one

race; when he swear at he like a trooper for not be quick at

start. the excitement of nearly be bump by Brasenose in the

first hundred yard be an excuse. however, Hardie apologise as they

be dress in the barge after the race; but the apology be so stiff,

it do not pave the way to an acquaintance.



Young Hardie, rise twenty-one, think nothing human worthy of

reverence, but intellect. invite to dinner, on the same day, with the

Emperor of Russia, and with Voltaire, and with meek St. John, he would

certainly have tell the coachman to put he down at Voltaire.



his quick eye detect Edward's character; but be not attract by it:

say he to one of his adherent, “what a good-natured spoon that Dodd

be; Phoebus, what a name!” Edward, on the other hand, praise this

brilliant in all his letter, and record his triumph and such of his

witty saying as leak through his own set, to reinvigorate mankind.

this rouse Julia's ire. it smoulder through three letter; but burst

out when there be no letter; but Mrs. Dodd, meaning, Heaven know, no

harm, happen to say meekly, _a propos_ of Edward, “you know, love,

we cannot all be young hardy.” “no, and thank Heaven,” say Julia

defiantly. “yes, mamma,” she continue, in answer to Mrs. Dodd's

eyebrow, which have curve; “your mild glance read my soul; I detest

that boy.” Mrs. Dodd smile: “be you sure you know what the word

'det' mean? and what have young Mr. Hardie do, that you should

bestow so violent a sentiment on he?”



“Mamma, I be Edward's sister,” be the tragic reply; then, kick off

the buskin pretty nimbly, “there! he beat our boy at everything, and

our sit quietly down and admire he for it: oh! how can a man let

anybody or anything beat he! I wouldn't; without a desperate struggle.”

 she clench her white tooth and imagine the struggle. to be sure, she

own she have never see this Mr. Hardie; but after all it be only Jane

Hardie's brother, as Edward be her; “and would I sit down and let jane

beat I at thing? never! never! never! I couldn't.”



“your friend to the death, dear; be not that your expression?”



“oh, that be a slip of the tongue, dear mamma; I be off my guard. I

generally be, by the way. but now I be on it, and propose an amendment.

now I second it. now I carry it.”



“and now let I hear it.”



“she be my friend till death--or Eclipse; and that mean until she

eclipse I, of course.” but she add softly, and with sudden gravity:

“ah! Jane Hardie have a fault which will always prevent she from

eclipse your humble servant in this wicked world.”



“what be that?”



“she be too good. much.”



“Par exemple?”



“too religious.”



“oh, that be another matter.”



“for shame, mamma! I be glad to hear it: for I scorn a life of

frivolity; but then, again, I should not like to give up everything, you

know.” Mrs. Dodd look a little staggered, too, at so vast a scheme

of capitulation. but “everything” be soon explain to mean ball,

concert, dinner-party in general, tea-party without exposition of

Scripture, race, and opera, card, charade, and whatever else amuse

society without perceptibly sanctify it. all these, by Julia's

account, Miss Hardie have renounce, and be now denounce (with the

young the latter verb tread on the very heel of the former). “and, you

know, she be a district visitor.”



this climax deliver, Julia stop short, and await the result.



Mrs. Dodd hear it all with quiet disapproval and cool incredulity.

she have see so many young lady heal of many young enthusiasm by

a wedding ring. but, while she be search diligently in her mine

of ladylike English--mine with plenty of water in it, beg she

pardon--for expression to convey inoffensively, and roundabout, her

conviction that Miss Hardie be a little, furious simpleton, the post

come and sweep the subject away in a moment.



two letter; one from Calcutta, one from Oxford.



they come quietly in upon one salver, and be open and read with

pleasurable interest, but without surprise, or misgiving; and without

the slight foretaste of their grave amid singular consequence.



river deep and broad start from such little spring.





David's letter be of unusual length for he. the main topic be,

first, the date and manner of his return home. his ship, a very old one,

have be condemn in port: and he be to sail a fine new teak-build

vessel, the _Agra,_ as far as the Cape; where her captain, just

recover from a severe illness, would come on board, and convey she

and he to England. in future, Dodd be to command one of the Company's

large steamer to Alexandria and back.



“it be rather a come-down for a sailor, to go straight ahead like a

wheelbarrow in all weather with a steam-pot and a crew of coalheaver.

but then I shall not be part from my sweetheart such long dreary

spell as I have be thus twenty year, my dear love: so be it for I

to complain?”



the second topic be pecuniary; the transfer of their saving from

India, where interest be high than at home, but the capital not so

secure.



and the third be ardent and tender expression of affection for

the wife and child he adore. these effusion of the heart have no

separate place, except in my somewhat arbitrary analysis of the honest

sailor's letter; they be the under current. Mrs. Dodd read part of it

out to Julia; in fact all but the money matter: that concern the head

of the family more immediately; and Cash be a topic her daughter do

not understand, nor care about. and when Mrs. Dodd have read it with

glisten eye, she kiss it tenderly, and read it all over again

to herself, and then put it into her bosom as naively as a milkmaid in

love.



Edward's letter be short enough, and Mrs. Dodd allow Julia to read

it to she, which she do with pant breath, and glow cheek, and a

run fire of comment.



“'Dear Mamma, I hope you and Ju be quite well----'”



“Ju,” murmur Mrs. Dodd plaintively.



“'and that there be good news about papa come home. as for I, I

have plenty on my hand just now; all this term I have be ['training'

scratch out, and another word put in: C -- r -- oh, I know)

'cram.'”



“'cram,' love?”



“yes, that be the Oxfordish for study.”



“'--For small.'”



Mrs. Dodd contrive to sigh interrogatively. Julia, who understand she

every accent, remind she that “small” be the new word for “little

go.”



“'--Cramming for small; and now I be in two race at Henley, and that

rather put the snaffie on reading and gooseberry pie' (goodness I),

'and add to my chance of be plough for small.'”



“what do it all mean?” inquire mamma, “'gooseberry pie'? and 'the

snaffle'? and 'plough'?”



“well, the gooseberry pie be really too deep for I: but 'plough'

be the new oxfordish for 'pluck.' o mamma, have you forget that?

'pluck' be vulgar, so now they be 'plough.' 'for small; but I

hope I shall not be, to vex you and Puss.'”



“Heaven forbid he should be so disgraced! but what have the cat to do

with it?”



“nothing on earth. Puss? that be I. how dare he? do I not forbid all

these nickname and all this oxfordish, by proclamation, last Long.”



“last Long?”



“Hem! last protract vacation.”



“'--Dear mamma, sometimes I cannot help be down in the mouth,'

(why, it be a string of pearl) 'to think you have not get a son like

Hardie.'” at this unfortunate reflection it be Julia's turn to suffer.

she deposit the letter in her lap, and fire up. “now, have not I

cause to hate, and scorn, and despise le petit Hardie?”



“Julia!”



“I mean to dislike with propriety, and gently to abominate--Mr. Hardie,

junior.”



“'--Dear mamma, do come to Henley on the tenth, you and Ju. the

university eight will not be there, but the head boat of the Oxford

and Cambridge river will; and the Oxford head boat be Exeter, you know;

and I pull six.'”



“then I be truly sorry to hear it; my poor boy will overtask his

strength; and how unfair of the other young gentleman; it seem

ungenerous; unreasonable; my poor child against so many.”



“'--And I be enter for the scull as well, and if you and “the

Impetuosity”' (Vengeance!) 'be look on from the bank, I do think I

should be lucky this time. Henley be a long way from Barkington, but it

be a pretty place; all the lady admire it, and like to see both the

university out and a stunning race.' oh, well, there _be_ an epithet.

one would think thunder be go to race lightning, instead of Oxford

Cambridge.”



“'--If you can come, please write, and I will get you nice lodging; I

will not let you go to a noisy inn. love to Julia and no end of kiss

to my pretty mamma. --From your affectionate Son,



“'EDWARD DODD.'”





they write off a cordial assent, and reach Henley in time to see the

dull town in Europe; and also to see it turn one of the gay in

an hour or two; so impetuously come both the university pour into

it--in all know vehicle that could go _their_ pace--by land and water.









CHAPTER I



it be a bright hot day in June. Mrs. Dodd and Julia sit half recline,

with their parasol up, in an open carriage, by the brink of the Thames

at one of its lovely bend.



about a furlong up stream a silvery stone bridge, just mellow by time,

span the river with many fair arch. through these the come river

peep sparkle a long way above, then come meander and shine

down; loitered cool and sombre under the dark vault, then glisten on

again crookedly to the spot where sit its two fair visitor that

day; but at that very point fling off its serpentine habit, and shot

straight away in a broad stream of scintillate water a mile long, down

to an island in mid-stream: a little fairy island with old tree, and

a white temple. to curl round this fairy isle the broad current part,

and both silver stream turn purple in the shade of the grove; then

wind and melt from the sight.



this noble and rare passage of the silvery Thames be the Henley

racecourse. the starting-place be down at the island, and the goal be

up at a point in the river below the bridge, but above the bend

where Mrs. Dodd and Julia sit, unruffle by the racing, and enjoy

luxuriously the glorious stream, the mellow bridge crowd with

carriage--whose fair occupant stretch a broad band of bright colour

above the dark figure cluster on the battlement--and the green

meadow opposite with the motley crowd stream up and down.



nor be that sense, which seem especially keen and delicate in woman,

leave unregaled in the general bounty of the time. the green meadow

on the opposite bank, and the garden at the back of our fair friend,

fling their sweet fresh odour at their liquid benefactor glide by;

and the sun himself seem to burn perfume, and the air to scatter

they, over the motley merry crowd, that bright, hot, smiling, airy day

in June.



thus tune to gentle enjoyment, the fair mother and her lovely daughter

lean back in a delicious languor proper to their sex, and eye with

unflagge though demure interest, and furtive curiosity, the wealth of

youth, beauty, stature, agility, gaiety, and good temper, the two great

university have pour out upon those obscure bank; all dress in

neat but easy-fitting clothe, cut in the height of' the fashion; or

else in jersey white or stripe, and flannel trouser, and straw hat,

or cloth cap of bright and various hue; bet, stroll, laugh,

chaff, larking, and whirl stunt bludgeon at Aunt Sally.



but as for the sport itself they be there to see, the center of all

these bright accessory, “the racing,” my lady do not understand

it, nor try, nor care a hook-and-eye about it. but this mild dignified

indifference to the main event receive a shock at 2 p. m.: for then

the first heat for the cup come on, and Edward be in it. so then racing

become all in a moment a most interesting pastime--an appendage to

Loving. he leave to join his crew. and, soon after, the Exeter glide

down the river before their eye, with the beloved one rowing quietly

in it: his jersey reveal not only the work power of his arm,

as sunburnt below the elbow as a gipsy's, and as cord above as a

blacksmith's, but also the play of the great muscle across his broad

and deeply indented chest: his oar enter the water smoothly, grip

it severely, then come out clean, and feather clear and tunably on the

ringing rowlock: the boat jump and then glide, at each neat, easy,

powerful stroke. “oh, how beautiful and strong he be!” cry Julia. “I

have no idea.”



presently the competitor for this heat come down: the Cambridge boat,

row by a fine crew in broad-stripe jersey. “oh, dear” say Julia,

“they be odious and strong in this boat too. I wish I be in it--with a

gimlet; he _should_ win, poor boy.”



which corkscrew staircase to Honour be inaccessible, the race have to

be decide by two unfeminine trifle call “Speed” and “Bottom.”





few thing in this vale of tear be more worthy a pen of fire than an

English boat-race be, as see by the runner; of whom I have often be

one. but this race I be bind to indicate, not describe; I mean, to show

how it appear to two lady seat on the Henley side of the Thames,

nearly opposite the win-post. these fair novice then look all

down the river, and could just discern two whitish streak on the water,

one on each side the little fairy isle, and a great black patch on the

Berkshire bank. the threatening streak be the two racing boat: the

black patch be about a hundred Cambridge and Oxford man, ready to run

and hallo with the boat all the way, or at least till the last puff of

wind should be run plus halloe out of their young body. other less

fleet and enduring, but equally clamorous, stand in knot at various

distance, ripe for a short yell and run when the boat should come up

to they. of the native and country visitor, those who be not nail

down by bounteous Fate ebb and flow up and down the bank, with

no settle idea but of get in the way as much as possible, and of

getting knock into the Thames as little as might be.



there be a long uneasy suspense.



at last a puff of smoke issue from a pistol down at the island; two

oar seem to splash into the water from each white streak; and the

black patch be move; so be the threatening streak. presently be

hear a faint, continuous, distant murmur, and the streak begin to get

large, and large, and large; and the eight splashing oar look four

instead of two.



every head be now turn down the river. group hang crane over it

like nodding bulrush.



next the runner be swell by the straggler they pick up; so be

their voice; and on come the splashing oar and roar lung.



now the colour of the racing jersey peep distinct. the oarsman's

head and body come swinge back like one, and the oar seem to

lash the water savagely, like a connected row of sword, and the spray

squirt at each vicious stroke. the boat leap and dart side by

side, and, look at they in front, Julia could not say which

be ahead. on they come near and nearer, with hundred of voice

vociferate “go it, Cambridge” “well pull, Oxford!” “you

be gain, hurrah!” “well pull Trinity!” “Hurrah!” “Oxford!”

 “Cambridge!” “now be your time, Hardie; pick she up!” “oh, well pull,

six!” “well pull, Stroke!” “up, up! lift she a bit!” “Cambridge!”

 “Oxford!” “Hurrah!”



at this Julia turn red and pale by turn. “o mamma!” say she,

clasp her hand and colour high, “would it be very wrong if I be

to _pray_ for Oxford to win?”



Mrs. Dodd have a monitory finger; it be on her left hand; she raise it;

and that moment, as if she have give a signal, the boat, fore-shorten

no long, shoot out to treble the length they have look hitherto, and

come broadside past our palpitating fair, the elastic rower stretch

like greyhound in a chase, dart forward at each stroke so boldly

they seem fly out of the boat, and surge back as superbly, an

eightfold human wave: their nostril all open, the lip of some pale and

glutinous, their white tooth all clench grimly, their young eye all

glow, their supple body swell, the muscle writhe beneath

their jersey, and the sinew start on each bare brown arm; their

little shrill coxswain shout imperiously at the young giant, and

work to and fro with they, like jockey at a finish; nine soul

and body fling whole into each magnificent effort; water foaming and

fly, rowlock ringing, crowd run, tumbling, and howl like mad;

and Cambridge a boat's nose ahead.



they have scarcely pass our two spectator, when Oxford put on a

furious spurt, and get fully even with the lead boat. there be a

loud roar than ever from the bank. Cambridge spurt desperately in

turn, and steal those few foot back; and so they go fight every

inch of water. Bang! a cannon on the bank send its smoke over both

competitor; it disperse in a moment, and the boat be see pull

slowly towards the bridge--Cambridge with four oar, Oxford with six, as

if that gum have wing they both.



the race be over.



but who have win our party could not see, and must wait to learn.





a youth, adorn with a blue and yellow rosette, cry out, in the

hearing of Mrs. Dodd, “I say, they be properly pump, both crew

be:” then, jump on to a spoke of her carriage-wheel, with a slight

apology, he announce that two or three be shut up in the Exeter.



the exact meaning of these two verb passive be not clear to Mrs. Dodd;

but their intensity be. she flutter, and want to go to her boy

and nurse he, and turn two most implore eye on Julia, and Julia

straightway kiss she with gentle vehemence, and offer to ruin and

see.



“what, amongst all those young gentleman, love? I fear that would not

be proper. see, all the lady remain apart.” so they keep quiet and

miserable, after the manner of female.



meantime the Cantab's quick eye have not deceive he; in each racing

boat be two young gentleman lean collapse over their oar; and

two more, who be in a cloud, and not at all clear whether they be in

this world still, or in their zeal have pull into a well. but their

malady be not a rare one in racing boat, and the remedy always at

hand: it combine the rival system; Thames be sprinkle in their

face--Homoeopathy: and brandy in a teaspoon trickle down their

throat--allopathy: youth and spirit soon do the rest; and, the moment

their eye open, their mouth open; and, the moment their mouth

open, they fall a chaffing.



Mrs. Dodd's anxiety and Julia's be relieve by the appearance of Mr.

Edward, in a tweed shooting-jacket saunter down to they, hand in

his pocket, and a cigar in his mouth, placidly unconscious of their

solicitude on his account. he be receive with a little guttural cry of

delight; the misery they have be in about he be duly conceal from

he by both, and Julia ask he warmly who have win.



“oh, Cambridge.”



“Cambridge! why, then you be beat?”



“rather.” (Puff.)



“and you can come here with that horrible calm, and cigar, own

defeat, and puff tranquillity, with the same mouth. Mamma, we be

beat. beat! actually.”



“never mind,” say Edward kindly; “you have see a capital race, the

close ever know on this river; and one side or other must lose.”



“and if they do not quite win, they very nearly do,” observe Mrs.

Dodd composedly; then, with heartfelt content, “he be not hurt, and that

be the main thing.”



“well, my Lady Placid, and Mr. Imperturbable, I be glad neither of your

equanimity be disturb; but defeat be a Bitter pill to I.”



Julia say this in her earnest voice, and draw her scarf suddenly

round she, so as almost to make it speak, digest her Bitter Pill in

silence. during which process several exeter man catch sight of Edward,

and come round he, and an animate discussion take place. they begin

with ask he how it have happen, and, as he never speak in a hurry,

supply he with the answer. a stretcher have break in the Exeter? no,

but the Cambridge be a much well build boat, and her bottom cleaner.

the bow oar of the exeter be ill, and not fit for work. each of these

solution be advanced and combat in turn, and then all together. at

last the Babel lull, and Edward be once more appeal to.



“well, I will tell you the real truth,” say he, “how it happen.”

 (Puff.)



there be a pause of expectation, for the young man's tone be that of

conviction, knowledge, and authority.



“the Cambridge man pull fast than we do.” (Puff.)



the hearer stare and then laugh.



“come, old fellow,” say Edward, “never win a boat-race on dry land!

that be such a _plain_ thing to do; give the other side the laugh as

well as the race. I have hear a stretcher or two tell, but I see

none break. (Puff.) their boat be the bad I ever see; it dip every

stroke. (Puff.) their strength lie in the crew. it be a good race and

a fair one. Cambridge get a lead and keep it. (Puff.) they beat we

a yard or two at rowing; but hang it all, don't let they beat we at

tell the truth, not by an inch.” (Puff.)



“all right, old fellow!” be now the cry. one observe, however, that

Stroke do not take the matter so coolly as six; for he have shed a tear

get out of the boat.



“shed a fiddlestick!” squeak a little sceptic.



“no” say another, “he don't quite shed it; his pride wouldn't let

he.”



“so he decant it, and put it by for supper, suggest Edward, and

puff.



“none of your chaff, Six. he have a gulp or two, and swallow the rest

by main force.”



“don't you talk: you can swallow anything, it seem.” (Puff.)



“well, I believe it,” say one of Hardie's own set. “Dodd don't know

he as we do. Taff Hardie cann't bear to be beat.”



when they be go, Mrs. Dodd observe, “dear I! what if the young

gentleman do cry a little, it be very excusable; after such great

exertion it _be_ disappointing, mortifying. I pity he for one, and

wish he have his mother alive and here, to dry they.” *



     *oh where, _and_ oh where, _be_ her Lindley Murray go?



“Mamma, it be you for read we,” cry Edward, slap his thigh.

“well, then, since you can feel for a fellow, Hardie _be_ a good deal

cut up. you know the university be in a manner beat, and he take the

blame. he never cry; that be a cracker of those fellow. but he

do give one great sob, that be all, and hang his head on one side a

moment. but then he fight out of it directly, like a man; and there be

an end of it, or ought to have be. Hang chatterbox!”



“and what do you say to console he, Edward?” inquire Julia warmly.



“what--I? Console my senior, and my Stroke? no, thank you.”



at this thunderbolt of etiquette both lady keep their countenance

this be _their_ muscular feat that day--and the racing for the scull

come on: six competitor, two Cambridge, three Oxford, one London.

the three heat furnish but one good race, a sharp contest between a

Cambridge man and Hardie, end in favour of the latter; the Londoner

walk away from his opponent; Sir Imperturbable's competitor be

impetuous, and run into he in the first hundred yard; Sir I.

consent calmly. the umpire, appeal to on the spot, decide that it

be a foul, Mr. Dodd be in his own water. he walk over the course,

and explain the matter to his sister, who deliver her mind thus--



“oh! if race be to be win by go slow than the other, we may shine

yet: _only,_ I call it cheating, not race.”



he smile unmoved; she give she scarf the irony twist, and they all go

to dinner. the business recommence with a race between a London boat

and the winner' of yesterday's heat, Cambridge. here the truth of

Edward's remark appear. the Cambridge boat be too light for the man,

and keep bury her hose; the London craft, under a heavy crew,

float like a cork. the londoner soon find out their advantage, and,

overrate it, steer into their opponent water prematurely, in spite

of a warning voice from the bank. Cambridge see, and crack on for a

foul; and for about a minute it be anybody's race. but the londoner

pull gallantly, and just scrape clear ahead. this peril escape,

they keep their back straight and a clear lead to the finish. Cambridge

follow a few foot in their wake, pull wonderfully fast to the end,

but a trifle out of form, and much distressed.



at this both university look blue, their humble aspiration be,

first to beat off all the external world, and then tackle each other for

the prize.



just before Edward leave his friend for “the scull,” the final heat, a

note be bring to he. he run his eye over it, and throw it open into

his sister's lap. the lady read it. its writer have win a prize poem,

and so now be our time to get a hint for composition:





“DEAR SIR,--Oxford must win something. suppose we go in for these

scull. you be a horse that can stay; Silcock be hot for the lead at

start, I hear; so I mean to work he out of wind; then you can wait

on we, and pick up the race. my head be not well enough to-day to

win, but I be good to pump the Cockney; he be quick, but a little

stale--your truly,



“ALFRED HARDIE”





Mrs. Dodd remark that the language be sadly figurative; but she hope

Edward might be successful in spite of his correspondent's style.



Julia say she do not dare hope it. “the race be not always to the

slow and the dear.” this be in allusion to yesterday's “foul.”



the skiff start down at the island, and, as they be long come

up than the eight oar, she be in a fever for nearly ten minute. at

last, near the opposite bank, up come the two lead skiff struggle,

both man visibly exhaust--Silcock ahead, but his rudder overlap by

Hardie's bow; each in his own water.



“we be third,” sigh Julia, and turn her head away from the river

sorrowfully. but only for a moment, for she feel Mrs. Dodd start and

press her arm; and lo! Edward's skiff be shoot swiftly across

from their side of the river. he be pull just within himself, in

beautiful form, and with far more elasticity than the other two have got

leave. as he pass his mother and sister, his eye seem to strike

fire, and he lay out all his power, and go at the lead skiff

hand over head. there be a yell of astonishment and delight from both

side of the Thames. he pass Hardie, who upon that relax his speed.

in thirty second more he be even with Silcock. then come a keen

struggle: but the new comer be “the horse that could stay:” he draw

steadily ahead, and the stern of his boat be in a line with Silcock's

person when the gun fire; and a fearful roar from the bridge, the

river, and the bank, announce that the favourite university have pick

up the scull in the person of Dodd of Exeter.



in due course he bring the little silver scull, and pin they on

his mother.



while she and Julia be tell he how proud they be, and how happy

they should be, but for their fear that he would hurt himself, beat

gentleman ever so much old than himself, come two exeter man with wild

look hunt for he.



“oh, Dodd! Hardie want you directly.”



“don't you go, Edward,” whisper Julia; “why should you be at Mr.

Hardie's beck and call? I never hear of such a thing. that youth _will_

make I hate he.”



“oh, I think I have well just go and see what it be about,” reply

Edward: “I shall be back directly.” and on this understanding he go

off with the man.



half-an-hour pass; an hour; two hour, and he do not return. Mrs.

Dodd and Julia sat wonder what have become of he, and be look

all around, and get uneasy, when at last they do hear something

about he, but indirectly, and from an unexpected quarter. a tall young

man in a jersey and flannel trouser, and a little straw hat, with a

purple rosette, come away from the bustle to the more secluded part

where they sit, and make eagerly for the Thames as if he be a duck, and

go in. but at the brink he fling himself into a sit posture,

and dip his white handkerchief into the stream, then tie it

viciously round his brow, double himself up with his head in his hand,

and rock himself like an old woman--minus the patience, of course.



Mrs. Dodd and Julia, sit but a few pace behind he, interchange,

a look of intelligence. the young gentleman be a strange; but they have

recognise a faithful old acquaintance at the bottom of his pantomime.

they discover, too, that the afflicted one be a personage: for he

have not sit there long when quite a little band of man come after he.

observe his semi-circularity and general condition, they hesitate a

moment; and then one of they remonstrate eagerly.: “for Heaven's sake

come back to the boat! there be a crowd of all the college come round

we; and they all say Oxford be be sell. we have a chance for the

four-oare race, and you be throw it away.”



“what do I care what they all say?” be the answer, deliver with a

kind of plaintive snarl.



“but we care.”



“care then! I pity you.” and he turn his back fiercely on they, and

then groan by way of half apology. another try he: “come, give we a

civil answer, please.”



“People that intrude upon a man's privacy, rack with pain, have

no right to demand civility,” reply the sufferer, more gently, but

sullenly enough.



“do you call this privacy?”



“it be, a minute ago. do you think I leave the boat, and come here among

the native, for company? and noise? with my head split?”



here Julia give Mrs. Dodd a soft pinch, to which Mrs. Dodd reply by a

smile. and so they settle who this petulant young invalid must be.



“'there, it be no use,” observe one, _sotto voce,_ “the bloke really

have awful headache, like a girl, and then he always shut up this way.

you will only rile he, and get the rough side of his tongue.”



here, then, the conference draw towards a close. but a Wadham man, who

be one of the ambassador, interpose. “stop a minute,” say he. “Mr.

Hardie, I have not the honour to be acquaint with you, and I be not

here to annoy you, nor to be affront by you. but the university have a

stake in this race, and the university expostulate through we--through

I, if you like.”



“who have I the honour?” inquire Hardie, assume politeness sudden and

vast.



“Badham, of Wadham.”



“badham o' Wadham? hear that, ye tuneful nine! well, Badham o' Wadham,

you be no acquaintance of mine; so you may possibly not be a fool. let

we assume by way of hypothesis that you be a man of sense, a man of

reason as well as of rhyme. then follow my logic. Hardie of Exeter be a

good man in a boat when he have not get a headache.



“when he have get a headache, Hardie of Exeter be not worth a straw in a

boat.



“Hardie of Exeter have a headache now.



“Ergo, the university would put the say Hardie into a race, headache

and all, and reduce defeat to a certainty.



“and, ergo, on the same premise, I, not be an egotist, nor an ass,

have take Hardie of Exeter and his headache out of the boat, as I

should have do any other cripple.



“secondly, I have put the good man on the river into this cripple's

place.



“Total, I have give the university the benefit of my brain; and

the university, not have brain enough to see what it gain by the

exchange, turn again and rend I, like an animal frequently mention

in Scripture; but, _nota bene,_ never once with approbation.”



and the afflict Rhetorician attempt a diabolical grin, but fail

signally; and groan instead.



“be this your answer to the university, sir?”



at this query, deliver in a somewhat threatening tone, the invalid sit

up all in a moment, like a poked lion. “oh, if Badham o' Wadham think

to crush I _auctoritate sua et totius universitatis,_ badham o'

Wadham may just tell the whole university to go and be d----d, from

the Chancellor down to the junior cook at Skimmery Hall, with my

compliment.”



“Ill-condition brute!” mutter Badham of Wadham. “serve you right if

the university be to chuck you into the Thames.” and with this comment

they leave he to his ill temper. one remain; sit quietly down a little

way off, strike a sweetly aromatic lucifer, and blow a noisome cloud;

but the only one which betoken calm.



as for Hardie, he hold his ache head over his knee, absorb in pain,

and quite unconscious that sacred pity be poison the air beside he,

and two pair of dovelike eye rest on he with womanly concern.



Mrs. Dodd and Julia have hear the great part of this colloquy. they

have terribly quick ear and nothing well to do with they just then.

indeed, their interest be excited.



Julia go so far as to put her salt into Mrs. Dodd's hand with a

little earnest look. but Mrs. Dodd do not act upon the hint. she have

learn who the young man be: have his very name be strange to she,

she would have be more at her ease with he. moreover, his rudeness

to the other man repel she a little. above all, he have utter a

monosyllable and a stinger: a thorn of speech not in her vocabulary,

nor even in society's. those might be his manner, even when not ache.

still, it seem, a feather would have turn the scale in his favour,

for she whisper, “I have a great mind; if I could but catch his eye.”



while feminine pity and social reserve be hold the balance so

nicely, and nonsensically, about half a split straw, one of the racing

four-oar go down close under the Berkshire bank. “London!” observe

Hardie's adherent.



“what, be you there, old fellow?” murmur Hardie, in a faint voice.

“now, that be like a friend, a real friend, to sit by I, and not make a

row. thank you! thank you!”



presently the Cambridge four-oar pass: it be speedily follow by the

Oxford; the last come down in mid-stream, and Hardie eye it keenly as

it pass. “there,” he cry, “be I wrong? there be a swing for you;

there be a stroke. I do not know what a treasure I have get sit

behind I.”



the lady look, and lo! the laud Stroke of the four-oar be their

Edward.



“sing out and tell he it be not like the scull. we must fight for the

lead at start, and hold it with his eyelid when he have get it.”



the adherent bawl this at Edward, and Edward's reply come ring back

in a clear, cheerful voice, “we mean to try all we know.”



“what be the odd?” inquire the invalid faintly.



“even on London; two to one against Cambridge; three to one against we.”



“take all my tin and lie it on,” sigh the sufferer.



“fork it out, then. Hallo! eighteen pound? Fancy have eighteen pound

at the end of term. I'll get the odd up at the bridge directly. here's

a lady offer you her smell-bottle.”



Hardie rise and turn round, and sure enough there be two lady

seat in their carriage at some distance, one of whom be hold he

out three pretty little thing enough, a little smile, a little blush,

and a little cut-glass bottle with a gold cork. the last panegyric on

Edward have turn the scale.



Hardie go slowly up to the side of the carriage, and take off his hat

to they with a half-bewildered air. now that he be so near, his face

show very pale; the more so that his neck be a good deal tan;

his eyelid be rather swollen, and his young eye trouble and almost

filmy with the pain. the lady see, and their gentle bosom be

touch: they have hear of he as a victorious young Apollo trample on

all difficulty of mind and body; and they see he wan, and wear, with

feminine suffering: the contrast make he doubly interesting.



arrive at the side of the carriage, he almost start at Julia's

beauty. it be sun-like, and so be her two lovely earnest eye,

beam soft pity on he with an eloquence he have never see in human

eye before; for Julia's be mirror of herself; they do nothing by

half.



he look at she and her mother, and blush, and stand irresolute,

await their command. this sudden contrast to his petulance with his

own sex pave the way. “you have a sad headache, sir,” say Mrs. Dodd;

“oblige I by try my salt.”



he thank she in a low voice.



“and, mamma,” inquire Julia, “ought he to sit in the sun?”



“certainly not. you have well sit there, sir, and profit by our shade

and our parasol.”



“yes, mamma, but you know the real place where he ought to be be Bed.”



“oh, pray don't say that,” implore the patient.



but Julia continue, with unabated severity, “and that be where he would

go this minute, if I be his mamma.”



“instead of his junior, and a stranger,” say Mrs. Dodd, somewhat

coldly, dwell with a very slight monitory emphasis on the “stranger.”



Julia say nothing, but draw in perceptibly, and be dead silent ever

after.



“oh, madam!” say Hardie eagerly, “I do not dispute her authority, nor

your. you have a right to send I where you please, after your kindness

in notice my infernal head, and do I the honour to speak to I,

and lend I this. but if I go to bed, my head will be my master.

besides, I shall throw away what little chance I have of make your

acquaintance; and the race just come off!”



“we will not usurp authority, sir,” say Mrs. Dodd quietly; “but we know

what a severe headache be, and should be glad to see you sit still in

the shade, and excite yourself as little as possible.”



“yes, madam,” say the youth humbly, and sit down like a lamb. he

glance now and then at the island, and now and then peer up at the

radiant young mute beside he.



the silence continue till it be break by--a fish out of water. an

undergraduate in spectacle came moon along, all out of his element.

it be Mr. Kennet, who use to rise at four every morning to his Plato,

and walk up Shotover Hill every afternoon, wet or dry, to cool his eye

for his evening work. with what view he deviate to Henley have not yet

be ascertain. he be blind as a bat, and do not care a button about

any earthly boat-race, except the one in the AEneid, even if he could

have see one. however, nearly all the man of his college go to

Henley, and perhaps some branch, hitherto unexplored, of animal

magnetism draw he after. at any rate, there be his body; and his mind

at Oxford and Athens, and other venerable but irrelevant city. he

brighten at sight of his doge, and ask he warmly if he have hear

the news.



“no: what? nothing wrong, I hope?”



“why, two of our man be plough; that be all,” say Kennet, affect

with wither irony to undervalue his intelligence.



“confound it, Kennet, how you frighten I! I be afraid there be some

screw loose with the crew.”



at this very instant, the smoke of the pistol be see to puff out from

the island, and Hardie rise to his foot. “they be off!” cry he to the

lady, and after first put his palm together with a hypocritical

look of apology, he lay one hand on an old barge that be draw up

ashore, and spring like a mountain goat on to the bow, light on the

very gunwale. the position be not tenable an instant, but he extend

one foot very nimbly and boldly, and plant it on the other gunwale;

and there he be in a moment, headache and all, in an attitude as

large and inspire as the bold gesture antiquity have commit to

marble--he have even the advantage in stature over most of the sculpture

form of Greece. but a double opera-glass at his eye “spoil the lot,”

 as Mr. Punch say.



I be not to repeat the particular of a distant race come near and

nearer. the main feature be always the same; only this time it be

more exciting to our fair friend, on account of Edward's high stake in

it. and then their grateful though refractory patient, an authority

in their eye, indeed all but a river-god, stand poise in air, and in

excited whisper interpret each distant and unintelligible feature

down to they:



“Cambridge be off quick.”



“but not much.”





“anybody's race at present, madam.”





“if this last long we may win. none of they can stay like we.”



“come, the favourite be not so very dangerous.”



“Cambridge look best.”



“I wouldn't change with either, so far.”





“now, in forty second more, I shall be able to pick out the winner.”



Julia go up this ladder of thrill to a high state of excitement; and,

indeed, they be all so tune to race pitch, that some metal nerve or

other seem to jar inside all three, when the pierce, grating voice

of Kennet break in suddenly with--



“how do you construe [greek text]?”



the wretch have burrow in the intellectual ruin of Greece the

moment the pistol go off, and college chat cease. Hardie raise his

opera-glass, and his first impulse be to brain the judicious

Kennet, gaze up to he for an answer, with spectacle goggle like

supernatural eye of dead sophist in the sun.



“how do you construe _'Hoc age'_? you incongruous dog. hold your tongue,

and mind the race.”





“there, I think so. where's your three to one, now? the cockney

be out of this event, any way. go on, Universities, and order their

supper!”



“but which be first, sir?” ask Julia imploringly. “oh, which be first

of all?”



“Neither. never mind; it look well. London be pump; and if Cambridge

cann't lead he before this turn in the river, the race will be ours.

now, look out! by Jove, we be _ahead!_”



the lead boat come on, Oxford pull a long, lofty, sturdy stroke,

that seem as if it never could compete with the quick action of its

competitor. yet it be undeniably ahead, and gain at every swing.



Young Hardie writhe on his perch. he screech at they across the

Thames, “well pull, Stroke! well pull all! splendidly pull, Dodd!

you be walk away from they altogether. Hurrah, Oxford for ever,

hurrah!” the gun go off over the head of the Oxford crew in advance,

and even Mrs. Dodd and Julia could see the race be theirs.



“we have win at last,” cry Julia, all on fire, “and fairly; only think

of that!”



Hardie turn round, grateful to beauty for side with his university.

“yes, and the fool may thank I; or rather my man, Dodd. Dodd for ever!

Hurrah!”



at this climax even Mrs. Dodd take a gentle share in the youthful

enthusiasm that be boil around she, and her soft eye sparkle, and

she return the fervid pressure of her daughter's hand; and both their

face be flush with gratified pride and affection.



“Dodd!” break in “the incongruous dog,” with a voice just like a saw's.

“Dodd? ah, that's the man who be just plough for small.”





Ice have its thunderbolt.









CHAPTER II



win boat-race be all very fine; but a hundred such victory could

not compensate Mr. Kennet's female hearer for one such defeat as he have

announce--a defeat that, to their mind, carry disgrace. their Edward

pluck! at first they be benumb, and sit chill, with red cheek,

bewilder between present triumph and mortification at hand. then the

colour ebb out of their face, and they encourage each other feebly

in whisper, “might it not be a mistake?”



but unconscious Kennet rob they of this timid hope. he be now in

his element, know all about it, rush into detail, and saw away all

doubt from their mind. the sum be this. Dodd's general performance be

mediocre, but passable; he be pluck for his Logic. Hardie say he

be very sorry for it. “what do it matter?” answer Kennet; “he be a

boat-man.



“well, and I be a boat-man. why, you tell I yourself, the other

day, poor Dodd be anxious about it on account of his friend. and,

by-the-bye, that remind I they say he have get two pretty sister

here.”



say Kennet briskly, “I'll go and tell he; I know he just to speak

to.”



“what! don't he know?”



“how can he know?” say Kennet jealously; “the testamur be only

just out as I come away.” and within this he start on his congenial

errand.



Hardie take two or three of his long stride, and fairly collar he.

“you will do nothing of the kind.”



“what, not tell a man when he's plough? that be a good joke.”



“no. there's time enough. tell he after chapel to-morrow, or in chapel

if you must; but why poison his triumphal cup? and his sister, too, why

spoil their pleasure? hang it all, not a word about 'plough' to any

live soul to-day.”



to his surprise, Kennet's face express no sympathy, nor even bare

assent. at this Hardie lose patience, and burst out impetuously, “take

care how you refuse I; take care how you thwart I in this. he be the

well-natured fellow in college. it don't matter to you, and it do

to he; and if you _do,_ then take my name off the list of your

acquaintance, for I'll never speak a word to you again in this world;

no, not on my death-bed, by Heaven!”



the threat be extravagant; but Youth's glowing cheek and eye, and

imperious lip, and simple generosity, make it almost beautiful.



Kennet whine, “oh, if you talk like that, there be an end to fair

argument.”



“end it then, and promise I; upon your honour!”



“why not? what bosh! there, I promise. now, how do you construe [greek

text]?”



the incongruous dog (“I thank thee, Taff, for teach I that word”)

put this query with the severity of an inquisitor bring back a

garrulous prisoner to the point. Hardie reply gaily, “any way you

like, now you be a good fellow again.”



“come, that be evasive. my tutor say it cannot be render by any one

english word; no more can [greek text].”



“why, what on earth can he know about English? [greek text] be a

cormorant: [greek text] be a skinflint; and your tutor be a Duffer.

Hush! keep dark now! here he come.” and he go hastily to meet Edward

Dodd: and by that mean intercept he on his way to the carriage.

“give I your hand, Dodd,” he cry; “you have save the university. you

must be stroke of the eight-oar after I. let I see more of you than I

have, old fellow.”



“within all my heart,” reply Edward calmly, but take the offer

hand cordially; though he rather want to get away to his mother and

sister. “we will pull together, and read together into the bargain,”

 continue Hardie.



“read together? you and I? what do you mean?”



“well, you see I be pretty well up in the Imigliner book; what I have

get to rub up be my divinity and my Logic--especially my Logic. will you

grind Logic with I? say 'yes,' for I know you will keep your word.”



“it be too good an offer to refuse, Hardie; but now I look at you,

you be excite: wonderfully excited: within the race, eh? now,

just--you--wait--quietly--till next week, and then, if you be so soft

as to ask I in cool blood----”



“wait a week?” cry the impetuous youth. “no, not a minute. it be

settle. there, we cram Logic together next term.”



and he shake Edward's hand again with glisten eye and an emotion

that be quite unintelligible to Edward; but not to the quick, sensitive

spirit, who sit but fifteen yard off.



“you really must excuse I just now,” say Edward, and run to the

carriage, and put out both hand to the fair occupant. they kiss he

eagerly, with little tender sigh; and it cost they no slight effort not

to cry publicly over “the beloved,” “the victorious,” “the ploughed.”



Young Hardie stand petrify. what? these lady Dodd's sister. why,

one of they have call the other mamma. good heaven! all his talk in

their hearing have be of Dodd; and Kennet and he between they have

let out the very thing he want to conceal, especially from Dodd's

relation. he gaze at they, and turn hot to the very forehead. then,

not know what to do or say, and be after all but a clever boy,

not a cool, “never unready” man of the world, he slip away, blush.

Kennet follow, goggle.





leave to herself, Mrs. Dodd would have break the bad news to Edward at

once, and take the line of console he under her own vexation: it

would not have be the first time that she have play that card. but

young Mr. Hardie have say it would be unkind to poison Edward's day: and

it be sweet woman's nature to follow suit; so she and Julia put bright

face on, and Edward pass a right jocund afternoon with they. he be

not allow to surprise one of the look they interchange to relieve

their secret mortification. but, after dinner, as the time draw near

for he to go back to Oxford, Mrs. Dodd become silent, and a little

_distraite;_ and at last draw her chair away to a small table, and write

a letter.



in direct it she turn it purposely, so that Julia could catch the

address: _“Edward Dodd, Esq., Exeter College, Oxford._”



Julia be naturally startle at first, and her eye rove almost

comically to and fro the letter and its destination, seat calm and

unconscious of woman's beneficent wile. but her heart soon divine the

mystery: it be to reach he the first thing in the morning, and spare

he the pain of write the news to they; and, doubtless, so word as

not to leave he a day in doubt of their forgiveness and sympathy.



Julia take the missive unobserve by the destination, and glide out of

the room to get it quietly post.



the servant-girl be wait on the second-floor lodger, and tell she

so, with a significant addition, viz., that the post be in this street,

and only a few door off. Julia be a little surprised at her coolness,

but take the hint with perfect good temper, and just put on her shawl

and bonnet, and go with it herself. the post-office be not quite so

near as represent; but she be soon there, for she be eager till she

have post it. but she come back slowly and thoughtfully; here in the

street, light only by the moon, and an occasional gaslight, there be

no need for self-restraint, and soon her mortification betray itself

in her speak countenance. and to think that her mother, on whom she

dote, should have to write to her son, there present, and post the

letter! this make her eye fill, and before she reach the door of the

lodging, they be brim over.



as she put her foot on the step, a timid voice address she in a

low tone of supplication. “may I venture to speak one word to you, Miss

Dodd?--one single word?”



she look up surprised; and it be young Mr. Hardie.



his tall figure be bend towards she submissively, and his face, as

well as his utterance, betray considerable agitation.





and what lead to so unusual a rencontre between a young gentleman and

lady who have never be introduce?



“the Tender Passion,” say a reader of many novel.



why, yes; the tender in all our nature:



Wounded Vanity.



naturally proud and sensitive, and inflate by success and flattery,

Alfred Hardie have be torture himself ever since he flee Edward's

female relation. he be mortify to the core. he confound “the

fool” (his favourite synonym for his acquaintance) for go and

call Dodd's mother an eld sister, and so not give he a chance to

divine she. and then that he, who pride himself on his discrimination,

should take they for lady of rank, or, at all event, of the high

fashion and, climax of humiliation, that so great a man as he should

go and seem to court they by praise Dodd of Exeter, by enlarge upon

Dodd of Exeter, by offer to grind Logic with Dodd of Exeter. who

would believe that this be a coincidence, a mere coincidence? they

could not be expect to believe it; female vanity would not let they.

he tingle, and be not far from hate the whole family; so bitter a

thing be that which I have venture to dub “the Tenderest Passion.”

 he itch to soothe his irritation by explain to Edward. Dodd be a

frank, good-hearted fellow; he would listen to fact, and convince the

lady in turn. Hardie learn where Dodd's party lodge, and wait

about the door to catch he alone: Dodd must be in college by twelve,

and would leave Henley before ten. he wait till he be tired of

wait. but at last the door open; he step forward, and out

trip Miss Dodd. “confound it!” mutter Hardie, and draw back.

however, he stand and admire her graceful figure and action, she

ladylike speed without bustle. have she come back at the same pace, he

would never have venture to stop she: on such a thread do thing hang:

but she return very slowly, hang her head. her look at he and his

headache recur to he--a look brimful of goodness. she would do as

well as Edward, well perhaps. he yield to impulse, and address

she, but with all the trepidation of a youth defy the giant Etiquette

for the first time in his life.



Julia be a little surprised and flutter, but do not betray it; she

have be teach self-command by example, if not by precept.



“certainly, Mr. Hardie,” say she, within a modest composure a young

coquette might have envy under the circumstance.



Hardie have now only to explain himself; but instead of that, he stood

look at she within silent concern. the fair face she raise to he

be wet with tear; so be her eye, and even the glorious eyelash

be fringe with that tender spray; and it glisten in the moonlight.



this sad and pretty sight drive the vain but generous youth's calamity

clean out of his head. “why, you be cry! Miss Dodd, what be the

matter? I hope nothing have happen.”



Julia turn her head away a little fretfully, with a “no, no!” but soon

her natural candour and simplicity prevail; a simplicity not without

dignity; she turn round to he and look he in the face. “why should

I deny it to you, sir, who have be good enough to sympathise with we?

we be mortify, sadly mortify, at dear Edward's disgrace; and it have

cost we a struggle not to disobey you, and _poison his triumphal cup_

with sad look. and mamma have to write to he, and console he against

to-morrow: but I hope he will not feel it so severely as she do: and I

have just post it myself, and, when I think of our dear mamma be

drive to such expedient, I--oh!” and the pure young heart, having

open itself by word, must flow a little more.



“oh, pray don't cry,” say young Hardie tenderly; “don't take such

a trifle to heart so. you cry make I feel guilty for let it

happen. it shall never occur again. if I have only know, it should never

have happen at all.”



“once be enough,” sigh Julia.



“indeed, you take it too much to heart. it be only out of Oxford a

plough be think much of; especially a single one; that be so very

common. you see, Miss Dodd, an university examination consist of

several item: neglect but one, and Crichton himself would be plough;

because brilliancy in your other paper be not allow to count; that be

how the most distinguished man of our day get plough for Smalls. I have

a narrow escape, I know, for one. but, Miss Dodd, if you know how far

your brother's performance on the river outweigh a mere slip in the

school, in all university man's eye, the don' and all, you would not

make this bright day end sadly to Oxford by cry. why, I could find

you a thousand man who would be plough to-morrow with glory and

delight to win one such race as your brother have win two.”



Julia sigh again. but it sound now half like a sigh of relief--the

final sigh, with which the fair consent to be console.



and indeed this improvement in the music do not escape Hardie. he feel

he be on the right tack: he enumerate fluently, and by name, many good

man, besides Dean Swift, who have be plough, yet have cultivate the

field of letter in their turn; and, in short, he be so earnest and

plausible, that something like a smile hover about his hearer's lip,

and she glance askant at he with furtive gratitude from under her

silky lash. but it soon recur to she that this be rather a long

interview to accord to “a stranger,” and under the moon; so she say a

little stiffly, “and be this what you be good enough to wish to say

to I, Mr. Hardie?”



“no, Miss Dodd, to be frank, it be not. my motive in address you,

without the right to take such a freedom, be egotistical. I come here

to clear myself; I--I be afraid you must think I a humbug, you know.”



“I do not understand you, indeed.”



“well, I fear you and Mrs. Dodd might think I praise Dodd so, and do

what little I do for he, know who you be, and wish to curry

favour with you by all that; and that be so underhand and paltry a way

of go to work, I should despise myself.”



“oh, Mr. Hardie,” say the young lady, smile, “how foolish: why, of

course, we know you have no idea.”



“indeed I have not; but how could you know it?”



“why, we see it. do you think we have no eye? ah, and much keener one

than gentleman have. it be mamma and I who be to blame, if anybody;

we ought to have declare ourselves: it would have be more generous,

more--manly. but we cannot all be gentleman, you know. it be so sweet

to hear Edward praise by one who do not know we; it be like steal

fruit; and by one whom other praise: so, if you can forgive we our

slyness, there be an end of the matter.”



“forgive you? you have take a thorn out of my soul.”



“then I be so glad you summon courage to speak to I without ceremony.

Mamma would have do well, though; but after all, do not I know she?

my mamma be all goodness and intelligence. and be assure, sir, she do

you justice; and be quite sensible of your _disintereste_ kindness to

dear Edward.” with this she be about to retire.



“ah! but you, Miss Dodd? with whom I have take this unwarrantable

liberty?” say Hardie imploringly.



“I, Mr. Hardie? you do I the honour to require my opinion of your

performance: include of course this self-introduction?”



Hardie hang his head; there be a touch of satire in the lady's voice,

he think.



her soft eye rest demurely on he a moment; she see he be a little

abash.



“my opinion of it all be that you have be very kind to we; in be

most kind to our poor Edward. I never see, nor read of anything more

generous, more manly. and then _so_ thoughtful, _so_ considerate, _so_

delicate! so instead of criticise you, as you seem to expect, his

sister only bless you, and thank you from the very bottom of her

heart.”



she have begin within a polite composure borrow from mamma; but, once

launch, her ardent nature get the well: her colour rise and rise,

and her voice sink and sink, and the last word come almost in a

whisper; and such a lovely whisper: a gurgle from the heart; and, as

she conclude, her delicate hand come sweep out with a heaven-teach

gesture of large and sovereign cordiality, that make even the honest

word and the divine tone more eloquent. it be too much; the young

man, ardent as herself, and not, in reality, half so timorous, catch

fire; and see a white, eloquent hand rather near he, catch it, and

press his warm lip on it in mute adoration and gratitude.



at this she be scared and offended. “oh; keep that for the Queen!”

 cry she, turn scarlet, and toss her fair head into the air,

like a startled stag; and she draw her hand away quickly and decidedly,

though not roughly. he stammer a lowly apology--in the very middle of

it she say quietly, “good-bye, Mr. Hardie,” and sweep, with a gracious

little curtsey, through the doorway, leave he spell-bind.





and so the virginal instinct of self-defence carry she off swiftly and

cleverly. but none too soon; for, on enter the house, that external

composure her two mother Mesdames Dodd and Nature have teach she, fall

from she like a veil, and she flutter up the stair to her own room

with hot cheek, and pant there like some wild thing that have be

grasp at and graze. she feel young Hardie's lip upon the palm of she

hand plainly; they seem to linger there still; it be like light but

live velvet. this, and the ardent look he have pour into her eye, set

the young creature quivering. nobody have look at she so before, and

no young gentleman have imprint living velvet on her hand. she be

alarm, ashamed, and uneasy. what right have he to look at she like

that? what shadow of a right to go and kiss her hand? he could not

pretend to think she have put it out to be kiss; lady put forth

the back of the hand for that, not the palm. the truth be he be an

impudent fellow, and she hate he now, and herself too, for be so

simple as to let he talk to she: mamma would not have be so imprudent

when she be a girl.



she would not go down, for she feel there must be something of this kind

legibly brand on her face: “oh! oh! just look at this young lady! she

have be let a young gentleman kiss the palm of her hand; and the

feel have not go off yet; you may see that by her cheek.”



but then, poor Edward! she must go down.



so she put a wet towel to her tell-tale cheek, and dry they by

artistic dab, avoid friction, and come downstairs like a mouse, and

turn the door-handle noiselessly, and glide into the sitting-room

look so transparent, conscious, and all on fire with beauty and

animation, that even Edward be startle, and, in a whisper, bade his

mother observe what a pretty girl she be: “beat all the country girl

in a canter.” Mrs. Dodd do look; and, consequently, as soon as ever

Edward be go to Oxford, she say to Julia, “you be feverish, love;

you have be excite with all this. you have well go to bed.”



Julia comply willingly; for she want to be alone and think. she

retire to her own room, and go the whole day over again; and be

happy and sorry, exalt and uneasy, by turn; and end by excuse Mr.

Hardie's escapade, and throw the blame on herself. she ought to have

be more distant; gentleman be not expect, nor indeed much want,

to be modest. a little assurance do not misbecome they. “really, I

think it set they off,” say she to herself.



Grand total: “what _must_ he think of I?”



Time gallop in reverie: the town clock strike twelve, and with its iron

tongue remorse enter her youthful conscience. be this obey mamma?

Mamma have say, “go to bed:” not, “go upstairs and meditate: upon young

gentleman.” she give an expressive shake of her fair shoulder, like

a swan flap the water off its downy wing, and so dismiss the

subject from her mind.



then she say her prayer.



then she rise from her knee, and in tone of honey say, “puss! puss!

pretty puss!” and await a result.



thief and ghost she do not believe in, yet credit cat under bed,

and think they neither “harmless” nor “necessary” there.



after tenderly evoke the dreaded and chimerical quadrupe, she

proceed none the less to careful research, especially of cupboard.

the door of one resist, and then yield with a crack, and blow out

the candle. “there now,” say she.



it be her only light, except her beauty. they allot each Hebe

but one candle, in that ancient burgh. “well,” she think, “there be

moonlight enough to _un_dress by.” she go to draw back one of the

curtain; but in the act she start back with a little scream. there

be a tall figure over the way watch the house.



the moon shine from her side of the street full on he, and in that

instant her quick eye recognise Mr. Hardie.



“well!” say she aloud, and with an indescribable inflexion; and hide

herself swiftly in impenetrable gloom.



but, after a while, Eve's daughter must have a peep. she steal with

infinite caution to one side of the curtain, and make an aperture just

big enough for one bright eye. yes, there he be, motionless. “I'll tell

mamma,” say she to he, malignantly, as if the sound could reach he.



Unconscious of the direful threat, he do not budge.



she be unaffectedly puzzle at this phenomenon; and, not be the

least vain, fall to wonder whether he play the nightly sentinel

opposite every lady's window who exchange civility within he.

“because, if he do, he be a fool,” say she, promptly. but on

reflection, she feel sure he do nothing of the kind habitually, for he

have too high an opinion of himself; she have note that trait in he at

a very early stage. she satisfy herself, by cautious examination, that

he do not know her room. he be make a temple of the whole lodging.

“how ridiculous of he!” yet he appear to be happy over it; there be

an exalted look in his moonlit face; she seem now first to see

his soul there. she study his countenance like an inscription, and

decipher each rapt expression that cross it; and store they in her

memory.



twice she leave her ambuscade to go to bed, and twice curiosity, or

something, draw she back. at last, having look, peer, and peep,

till her foot be cold, and her face the reverse, she inform herself

that the foolish thing have tire she out.



“good-night, Mr. Policeman,” say she, pretend to bawl to he. “and

oh! do rain! as hard as ever you can.” with this benevolent aspiration,

a little too violent to be sincere, she lay she cheek on her pillow

doughtily.



but her sentinel, when out of sight, have more power to disturb she. she

lie and wonder whether he be still there, and what it all mean, and

whatever mamma would say; and which of the two, she or he, be the head

culprit in this strange performance, to which Earth, she conceive,

have see no parallel; and, above all, what he would do next. her pulse

gallop, and her sleep be break; and she come down in the morning a

little pale. Mrs. Dodd see it at once, with the quick maternal eye; and

moralise: “it be curious; youth be so fond of pleasure; yet pleasure

seldom agree with youth; this little excitement have do your mother

good, who be no long young; but it have be too much for you. I shall

be glad to have you back to our quiet home.”



ah! will that home be as tranquil now?









CHAPTER III



the long vacation commence about a month afterwards, and Hardie come to

his father's house, to read for honour, unimpede by university race

and college lecture; and the ploughed and penitent one pack up his

Aldrich and his Whately, the then authority in Logic, and bring

they home, together with a firm resolution to master that joyous science

before the next examination for Smalls in October. but lo! ere he have

be an hour at home, he find his thing put neatly away in his drawer

on the feminine or vertical system--deep strata of waistcoat, stratum of

trouser, stratum of coat, strata of paper--and his Logic go.



in the course of the evening he tax his sister good-humouredly, and

ask “what earthly use that book be to she, not wear curl.”



“I intend to read it, and study it, and teach you it,” reply Julia,

rather languidly--consider the weight of the resolve.



“oh, if you have bone it to read, I say no more; the crime will punish

itself.”



“be serious, Edward, and think of mamma! I cannot sit with my hand

before I, and let you be reploughe.”



“I don't want. but--reploughed!--haw, haw! but you cann't help I at

Logic, as you use at Syntax. why, all the world know a girl cann't

learn Logic.”



“a girl can learn anything she choose to learn. what she cann't learn be

thing other people set she down to.” before Edward could fully digest

this revelation, she give the argument a new turn by add fretfully,

“and don't be so unkind, thwart and tease I!” and all in a moment

she be cry.



“Halloa!” ejaculate Edward, take quite by surprise. “what be the

matter, dear?” inquire maternal vigilance from the other end of the

room. “you do not speak brusquely to she, Edward?”



“no, no,” say Julia eagerly. “it be I that be turn so cross and so

peevish. I be quite a change girl. Mamma, what _be_ the matter with

I?” and she lay her brow on her mother's bosom.



Mrs. Dodd caress the lovely head soothingly with one hand, and make

a sign over it to Edward to leave they alone. she wait quietly till

Julia be compose: and then say, softly, “come, tell I what it be:

nothing that Edward say to you; for I hear almost every word, and I

be just go to smile, or nearly, when you---- and, my love, it be not

the first time, you know. I would not tell Edward, but I have more than

once see your eye with tear in they.”



“have you, mamma?” say Julia, scarcely above a whisper.



“why, you know I have. but I say to myself it be no use force

confidence. I think I would be very patient, and wait till you come

to I with it; so now, what be it, my darling? why do you speak of one

thing and think of another? and cry without any reason that your mother

can see?”



“I don't know, mamma,” say Julia, hide her head. “I think it be

because I sleep so badly. I rise in the morning hot and quivering, and

more tired than I lie down.”



Mrs. Dodd inquire how long this have be.



Julia do not answer this question; she go on, with her face still

hide: “Mamma, I do feel so depressed and hysterical, or else in

violent spirit: but not nice and cheerful as you be, and I use to be;

and I go from one thing to another, and can settle to nothing--even in

church I attend by fit and start: I forget to water my very flower

last night: and I hear Mrs. Maxley out of my window tell Sarah I be

lose my colour. be I? but what do it matter? I be lose my sense;

for I catch myself for ever look in the glass, and that be a sure

sign of a fool, you know. and I cannot pass the shop: I stand and look

in, and long for the very dear silk, and for diamond in my hair.” a

deep sigh follow the confession of these multiform imperfection; and

the culprit half raise her head to watch their effect.



as for Mrs. Dodd, she open her eye wide with surprise; but at the end

of the heterogeneous catalogue she smile, and say, “I cannot believe

_that._ if ever there be a young lady free from personal vanity, it be

my Julia. why, your thought run by nature away from yourself; you be

bear for other.”



her daughter kiss she gratefully, and smile: but after a pause, say,

sorrowfully, “ah! that be the old Julia, as see with your dear eye. I

have almost forget _she._ the new one be what I tell you, dear

mamma, and that” (within sudden fervour) “be a dreamy, wandering, vain,

egotistical, hysterical, abominable girl.”



“let I kiss this monster that I have bring into the world,” say Mrs.

Dodd. “and now let I think.” she rest her eye calm and penetrate

upon her daughter; and at this mere look, but a very search one, the

colour mount and mount in Julia's cheek strangely.



“after all,” say Mrs. Dodd thoughtfully, “yours be a critical age.

perhaps my child be turn to a woman; my rosebud to a rose. and she

sigh. mother will sigh at thing none other ever sigh at.



“to a weed, I fear,” reply Julia. “what will you say when I own I feel

no real joy at Edward's return this time? and yesterday I cry, 'do get

away, and don't pester I!'”



“to your brother? oh!”



“oh, no, mamma, that be to poor Spot. he jump on I in a reverie, all

affection, poor thing.”



“well, for your comfort, dog do not appreciate the nicety of our

language.”



“I be afraid they do; when we kick they.”



Mrs. Dodd smile at the admission imply here, and the deep penitence

it be utter with. but Julia remonstrate, “oh no! no! don't laugh at

I, but help I within your advice: you be so wise and so experienced:

you must have be a girl before you be an angel. you _must_ know

what be the matter with I. oh, do pray cure I, or else kill I, for

I cannot go on like this, all my affection deaden and my peace

disturb.”



and now the mother look serious and thoughtful enough; and the

daughter watch she furtively. “Julia,” say Mrs. Dodd, very gravely,

“if it be not my child, rear under my eye, and never separate from

I a single day, I should say, this young lady be either afflict

with some complaint, and it affect her nerve and spirit; or else she

have--she be--what inexperienced young people call 'in love.' you need

not look so frightened, child; nobody in their sense suspect _you_

of imprudence or indelicacy; and therefore I feel quite sure that

your constitution be at a crisis, or your health have suffer some

shock--pray Heaven it may not be a serious one. you will have the good

advice, and without delay, I promise you.”









CHAPTER IV





that very evening, Mrs. Dodd send a servant into the town with a note

like a cocked-hat for Mr. Osmond, a consulting surgeon, who bear a

high reputation in Barkington. he come, and prove too plump for that

complete elegance she would have desire in a medical attendant; but

have a soft hand, a gentle touch, and a subdued manner. he speak to the

patient with a kindness which win the mother directly; have every hope

of set she right without any violent or disagreeable remedy; but,

when she have retire, alter his tone; and tell Mrs. Dodd seriously she

have do well to send for he in time: it be a case of “Hyperaesthesia”

 (Mrs. Dodd clasp her hand in alarm), “or as unprofessional person

would say, 'excessive sensibility.'”



Mrs. Dodd be somewhat relieved. translation blunt thunderbolt. she

tell he she have always fear for her child on that score. but be

sensibility curable? could a nature be change?



he reply that the Idiosyncrasy could not; but its morbid excess could,

especially when take in time. advice be generally call in too late.

however, here the only serious symptom be the Insomnia. “we must treat

she for that,” say he, write a prescription; “but for the rest,

active employment, long walk or ride, and a change of scene and

association, will be all that will be require. in these case,”

 resume Mr. Osmond, “connect as they be with Hyperaemia, some medical

man consider moderate venesection to be indicate.” he then put on his

glove say, “the diet, of course, must be antiphlogistic. let we say

then, for breakfast, dry toast with very little butter--no coffee--cocoa

(from the nib), or weak tea: for luncheon, beef-tea or mutton-broth:

for dinner, a slice of roast chicken, and tapioca or semolina pudding.

I would give she one glass of sherry, but no more, and barley-water; it

would be as well to avoid brown meat, at all event for the present.

with these precaution, my dear madam, I think your anxiety will soon be

happily remove.”



Julia take her long walk and light diet; and become a little pale

at time, and have few burst of high spirit in the interval of

depression. her mother go with her case to a female friend. the lady

say she would not trust to surgeon and apothecary; she would have

a downright physician. “why not go to the top of the tree at once, and

call in Dr. Short? you have hear of he?”



“oh, yes; I have even meet he in society; a most refined person: I

will certainly follow your advice and consult he. oh, thank you, Mrs.

Bosanquet! _a propos,_ do you consider he skilful?



“oh, immensely; he be a particular friend of my husband's.”



this be so convincing, that off go another three-cocked note, and

next day a dark-green carriage and pair dash up to Mrs. Dodd's door,

and Dr. Short bend himself in an arc, get out, and slowly mount

the stair. he be six foot two, wonderfully thin, livid, and

gentleman-like. fine home head, keen eye, lantern jaw. at sight

of he Mrs. Dodd rise and smile. Julia start and sit tremble.

he step across the room inaudibly, and after the usual civility,

glance at the patient's tongue, and touch her wrist delicately.

“Pulse be rapid,” say he.



Mrs. Dodd detail the symptom. Dr. Short listen within the patient

politeness of a gentleman, to whom all this be superfluous. he ask

for a sheet of note-paper, and divide it so gently, he seem to be

persuade one thing to be two. he write a pair of prescription, and

whilst thus employ look up every now and then and converse with the

lady.



“you have a slight subscapular affection, Miss Dodd: I mean, a little

pain under the shoulder-blade.”



“no, sir,” say Julia quietly.



Dr. Short look a little surprised; his female patient rarely

contradict he. be it for they to disown thing he be so a good as

to assign they?



“ah!” say he, “you be not conscious of it: all the well; it must be

slight; a mere uneasiness: no more.” he then number the prescription,

1, 2, and advise Mrs. Dodd to drop no. 1 after the eighth day, and

substitute no. 2, to be continue until convalescence. he put on his

glove to leave. Mrs. Dodd then, with some hesitation, ask he humbly

whether she might ask he what the disorder be. “certainly, madam,”

say he graciously; “your daughter be labour under a slight torpidity

of the liver. the first prescription be active, and be to clear the

gland itself, and the biliary duct, of the excretory accumulation;

and the second be exhibit to promote a healthy normal habit in that

important part of the vascular system.”



“what, then, it be not Hyperaemia?”



“Hyperaemia? there be no such disorder in the book.”



“you surprise I,” say Mrs. Dodd. “Dr. Osmond certainly think it be

Hyperaemia.” and she consult her little ivory tablet, whereon she have

write the word.



but meantime, Dr. Short's mind, to judge by his countenance, be away

roam distant space in search of Osmond.



“Osmond? Osmond? I do not know that name in medicine.”



“oh, oh, oh!” cry Julia, “and they both live in the same street!” Mrs.

Dodd hold up her finger to this outspoken patient.



but a light seem to break in on Dr. Short. “ah! you mean Mr. Osmond: a

surgeon. a very respectable man, a most respectable man. I do not know

a more estimable person--in his grade of the profession--than my good

friend Mr. Osmond. and so he give opinion in medical case, do he?”

 Dr. Short pause, apparently to realise this phenomenon in the world of

Mind. he resume in a different tone: “you may have misunderstood he.

Hyperaemia exist, of course; since he say so. but Hyperaemia be not

a complaint; it be a symptom. of biliary derangement. my worthy friend

look at disorder from a mental point; very natural: his interest lie

that way, perhaps you be aware: but profounder experience prove that

mental sanity be merely one of the result of bodily health: and I

be happy to assure you that, the biliary canal once clear, and the

secretion restore to the healthy habit by these prescription,

the Hyperaemia, and other concomitant of hepatic derangement, will

disperse, and leave our interesting patient in the enjoyment of her

natural intelligence, her friend' affectionate admiration, and above

all, of a sound constitution. lady, I have the honour” and the doctor

eke out this sentence by rise.



“oh, thank you, Dr. Short,” say Mrs. Dodd, rise within he; “you

inspire I with confidence and gratitude.” as if under the influence of

these feeling only, she take Dr. Short's palm and press it. of the

two hand, which meet for a moment then, one be soft and melt, the

other a bunch of bone; but both be very white, and so equally

adroit, that a double fee pass without the possibility of a bystander

suspect it.



for the benefit of all young virgin afflict like Julia Dodd, here be

the doctor's prescriptions:--



for MISS DODD.



     Rx Pil: hydrarg: chlor: Co:

     singuml: nocte sumend:

     Decoc: Aloes Co: 3j

     omni mane

     viii. Sept. J. S.



-------



for MISS DODD.



     Rx Conf: sennae.

     potass: Bitartrat.

     Extr: tarax: a a 3ss

     Misft: Elect:

     cuju sum: 3j omni mane.

     xviii. Sept. J. S.



-------



id: anglie reddit: per I Carol: Arundin:



the same do into English by I. C. R.





for MISS DODD.



1. o Jupiter aid we!! Plummer's pill to be take every night, 1 oz.

compound decoction of Aloes every morning.



8th Sept. J. S.



for MISS DODD.



2. o Jupiter aid we!! with Confection of Senna, Bitartrate of Potash,

extract of dandelion, of each half an ounce, let an electuary be mixed;

of which let she take 1 drachm every morning.



18th Sept. J. S.



-------



“quite the courtier,” say Mrs. Dodd, delight. Julia assent: she

even add, with a listless yawn, “I have no idea that a skeleton be

such a gentlemanlike thing; I never see one before.”



Mrs. Dodd admit he be very thin.



“oh no, mamma; 'thin' imply some little flesh. when he feel my pulse,

a chill strike to my heart. death in a black suit seem to steal up to

I, and lie a finger on my wrist: and mark I for his own.”



Mrs. Dodd forbid she to give way to such gloomy idea; and expostulate

firmly with she for judge learn man by their body. “however,” say

she, “if the good, kind doctor's remedy do not answer his expectation

and mine, I shall take you to London directly. I do hope papa will soon

be at home.”



Poor Mrs. Dodd be herself slip into a morbid state. a mother

collect doctor! it be a most fascinating kind of connoisseurship,

grow on one like drink; like Polemics; like Melodrama; like the

Millennium; like any thing.



sure enough, the very next week she and Julia sit patiently at the

morning levee of an eminent and title London surgeon. full forty

patient be before they: so they have to wait and wait. at last they

be usher into the presence-chamber, and Mrs. Dodd enter on the

beat ground of her daughter's symptom. the noble surgeon stop she

civilly but promptly. “auscultation will give we the clue,” say he,

and draw his stethoscope. Julia shrink and cast an appeal look at

her mother; but the impassive chevalier report on each organ in turn

without move his ear from the key-hole: “lung pretty sound,” say he,

a little plaintively: “so be the liver. now for the----Hum? there be no

kardiac insufficiency, I think, neither mitral nor tricuspid. if we find

no tendency to hypertrophy we shall do very well. ah! I have succeed

in diagnose a slight diastolic murmur; very slight.” he deposit the

instrument, and say, not without a certain shade of satisfaction that

his research have not be fruitless, “the heart be the peccant organ.”



“oh, sir! be it serious?” say poor Mrs. Dodd.



“by no mean. try this” (he scratch a prescription which would not

have misbecome the tomb of Cheops), “and come again in a month.” Ting!

he strike a bell. that “ting” say, “go, live, Guinea; and let another

come.”



“heart-disease now!” say Mrs. Dodd, sink back in her hire

carriage, and the tear be in her patient eye.



“my own, own mamma,” say Julia earnestly, “do not distress yourself.

I have no disease in the world, but my old, old, old one, of be a

naughty, wayward girl. as for you, mamma, you have resign your own

judgment to your inferior, and that be both our misfortune. dear, dear

mamma, do take I to a doctress next time, if you have not have enough.”



“to a what, love?”



“a she-doctor, then.”



“a female physician, child? there be no such thing. no; assurance be

become a characteristic of our sex; but we have not yet intrude

ourselves into the learn profession, thank Heaven.”



“excuse I, mamma, there be one or two; for the newspaper say so.”



“'well, dear, there be none in this country, happily.”



“'what, not in London?”



“no.”



“then what _be_ the use of such a great overgrown place, all smoke, if

there be nothing in it you cannot find in the country? let we go back to

Barkington this very day, this minute, this instant; oh, pray, pray.”



“and so you shall--to-morrow. but you must pity your poor mother's

anxiety, and see Dr. Chalmers first.”



“oh, mamma, not another surgeon! he frighten I; he hurt I. I never

hear of such a thing; oh, please not another surgeon.”



“it be not a surgeon, dear; it be the Court Physician.”



the Court Physician detect “a somewhat morbid condition of the great

nervous centre.” to an inquiry whether there be heart-disease, he

reply, “Pooh!” on be tell Sir William have announce heart-disease,

he say, “ah! _that alter the case entirely._” he maintain, however,

that it must be trifle, and would go no far, the nervous system

once restore to its healthy tone. “O Jupiter, aid we! blue pill and

Seidhitz powder.”



Dr. Kenyon find the mucous membrane be irritated and require

soothing. “O Jupiter, &c.”



Mrs. Dodd return home console and confused; Julia listless and

apathetic. Tea be order, with two or three kind of bread, thin

slice of meat, and a little blane mange, &c., their favourite repast

after a journey; and whilst the tea be draw, Mrs. Dodd look over

the card-tray and enumerate the visitor that have call during

their absence. “Dr. Short-- Mr. Osmond--Mrs. Hetherington--Mr. Alfred

Hardie--Lady Dewry--Mrs. and Miss Bosanquet. what a pity Edward be not

at home, dear; Mr. Alfred Hardie's visit must have be to he.”



“oh, of course, mamma.”



“a very manly young gentleman.”



“'oh, yes. no. he be so rude.”



“be he? ah! he be ill just then, and pain irritate gentleman; they be

not accustomed to it, poor thing.”



“that be like you, dear mamma; make excuse for one.” Julia add

faintly, “but he be so impetuous.”



“I have a daughter who reconcile I to impetuosity. and he _must_ have

a good heart, he be so kind to my boy.”



Julia look down smile; but presently seem to be seize with a

spirit of contradiction: she begin to pick poor Alfred to piece; he be

this, that, and the other; and then so bold, she might say impudent.



Mrs. Dodd reply calmly that he be very kind to her boy.



“oh, mamma, you cannot approve all the word he speak.”



“it be not worth while to remember all the word young gentleman speak

now-a-day. he be very kind to my boy, I remember that.”



the tea be now ready, and Mrs. Dodd sit down, and pat a chair, with

a smile of invitation for Julia to come and sit beside she. but Julia

say, “in one minute, dear,” and leave the room.



when she come back, she flutter up to her mother and kiss she

vehemently, then sit down radiant. “ah!” say Mrs. Dodd, “why, you be

look yourself once more. how do you feel now? well?”



“how do I feel? let I see: the world seem one e-nor-mous

flower-garden, and I the butterfly it all belong to.” she spake,

and to confirm her word the airy thing go waltzing, sailing, and

flutter round the room, and sip mamma every now and then on the

wing.



in this buoyancy she remain some twenty-four hour; and then come

cloud and chill, which, in their turn, give way to exultation, duly

follow by depression. her spirit be so uncertain, that thing too

minute to justify narration turn the scale either way: a word from

Mrs. Dodd--a new face at St. Anne's Church look devoutly her way--a

piece of town gossip distil in her ear by Mrs. Maxley--and she be

sprightly or languid, and both more than reason.



one drizzly afternoon they be sit silent and saddish in the

drawing-room, Mrs. Dodd correct the mechanical error in a drawing

of Julia's, and admire the rare dash and figure, and Julia doggedly

study Dr. Whately's Logic, with now and then a sigh, when suddenly a

trumpet seem to articulate in the little hall: “Mestress Doedd at home?”



the lady rise from her seat, and say with a smile of pleasure, “I hear

a voice.”



the door open, and in dart a grey-head man, with handsome but

strongly mark feature, laugh and shout like a schoolboy break

loose. he cry out, “ah! I've find y' out at last.” Mrs. Dodd glide

to meet he, and put out both her hand, the palm downwards, with

the prettiest air of ladylike cordiality; he shake they heartily. “the

vagabin say y' have leave the town; but y' have only flit from the

quay to the subbub; 'twa a pashint put I on the scint of ye. and how

be y' all these year? an' how's sawmill?”



“sawmill! what be that?”



“it's just your husband. ben't his name sawmill?”



“dear no! have you forgotten?--David.”



“Ou, ay. I know it be some Scripcher Petrarch or another, Daavid, or

Naathan, or Sawmill. and how be he, and where be he?”



Mrs. Dodd reply that he be on the sea, but expect----



“then I wish he well off 'em, confound 'em oncannall! Halloa! why, this

will be the little girl grow up int' a wumman while ye look round.”



“yes, my good friend; and her mother's darling.”



“and she's a bonny lass, I can tell ye. but no freend to the Dockers, I

see.”



“ah!” say Mrs. Dodd sadly, “look be deceitful; she be under medical

advice at this very----”



“well, that willn't hurt she, unless she take it.” and he burst into a

ring laugh: but in the middle of it, stop dead short, and his face

elongate. “Lord sake, mad'm,” say he impressively, “mind what y' be

at, though; Barkton's just a trap for fanciful femul: there's a n'oily

ass call Osmond, and a canting cut-throat call Stephenson and a

genteel, cadaveris old assassin call Short, as long as a maypole;

they'd soon take the rose out of Miss Floree's cheek here. why, they'd

starve Cupid, an' veneseck Venus, an' blister Pomonee, the vagabin.”



Mrs. Dodd look a little confused, and exchange speaking glance with

Julia. “however,” she say calmly, “I _have_ consult Mr. Osmond and

Dr. Short; but have not rely on they alone. I have take she to Sir

William Best. and to Dr. Chalmers. and to Dr. Kenyon.” and she feel

invulnerable behind her phalanx of learning and reputation.



“Good Hivens!” roar the visitor, “what a gauntlet o' gabie for one

girl to run; and come out alive! and the picter of health. my faith,

Miss Floree, y' be tough than ye look.”



“my daughter's name be Julia,” observe Mrs. Dodd, a little haughtily;

but instantly recover herself, she say, “this be Dr. Sampson,

love--an old friend of your mother's.”



“and th' author an' Invintor of th' great Chronothairmal Therey o'

Midicine, th' Unity Perriodicity an' Remittency of all disease,” put in

the visitor, with such prodigious swiftness of elocution that the word

went tumble over one another like railway carriage out on pleasure,

and the sentence be a pile of loud, indistinct syllable.



Julia's lovely eye dilate at this clishmaclaver, and she bow

coldly. Dr. Sampson have reveal in this short interview nearly all the

characteristic of voice, speech, and manner, she have be teach from

infancy to shun: boisterous, gesticulatory, idiomatic; and have take

the discourse out of her mamma's mouth twice. now Albion Villa be a Red

indian hut in one respect: here nobody interrupt.



Mrs. Dodd have little personal egotism, but she have a mother's, and could

not spare this opportunity of add another doctor to her collection:

so she say hurriedly, “will you permit I to show you what your learn

confrere have prescribe she?” Julia sigh aloud, and deprecate the

subject with earnest furtive sign; Mrs. Dodd would not see they. now,

Dr. Sampson be himself afflict with what I shall venture to call a

mental ailment; to wit, a furious intolerance of other man's opinion;

he have not even patience to hear they. “Mai--dear--mad'm,” say he

hastily, “when you've tell I their name, that's enough. short treat

she for liver, Sir William go in for lung disease or heart, chalmer

sis it's the nairve, and Kinyon the mookis membrin; and _i_ say they

be fool and lyre all four.”



“Julia!” ejaculate Mrs. Dodd, “this be very extraordinary.”



“no, it be not extraordinary,” cry Dr. Sampson defiantly; “nothing be

extraordinary. D'ye think I've know these shallow man thirty year, and

not plumb 'um?”



“Shallow, my good friend? excuse I! they be the able man in your own

branch of your own learn profession.”



“Th' able! oh, you mean the money-making: now listen I! our

lairne Profession be a rascally one. it be like a barrel of beer. what

rise to the top?” here he pause for a moment, then answer himself

furiously, “the SCUM.”



this blast blow, he moderate a little. “look see!” say he, “up to

three or four thousand a year, a Docker be often an honest man, and

sometimes know something of midicine; not much, because it be not

teach anywhere. but if he be make over five thousand, he must be

a rogue or else a fool: either he have boo an' booed, an' cript

an' crawl, int' wholesale collusion with th' apothecary an' the

accoucheur--the two jockey that drive John Bull's faemily coach--and

they be suck the pashint togither, like a leash o' leech: or else

he have turn spicialist; have tack his name to some poplar disorder,

real or imaginary; it needn't exist to be poplar. now, those four you

have be to are spicialist, and that mean monomaniue--their buddy

exspatiate in west-ind square, but their soul dwell in a n'alley,

ivery man jack of 'em: Aberford's in Stomich Alley, Chalmers's in Nairve

Court, Short's niver stir out o' Liver Lane, Paul's be stick fast in

Kidney Close, Kinyon's in Mookis Membrin Mews, and Hibbard's in Lung

Passage. look see! nixt time y' be out of sort, stid o' consultin'

three bat an' a n'owl at a guinea the piece, send direct to I, and

I'll give y' all their opinion, and all their prescription, _gratis._

and deevilich dear ye'll find 'em at the price, if ye swallow 'm.”



Mrs. Dodd thank he coldly for the offer, but say she would be more

grateful if he would show his superiority to person of know ability by

just cure her daughter on the spot.



“well, I will,” say he carelessly: and all his fire die out of he.

“put out your tongue!--Now your pulse!”





Mrs. Dodd know her man (lady be very apt to fathom their male

acquaintance--too apt, _I_ think); and, to pin he to the only medical

theme which interest she, seize the opportunity while he be in

actual contact with Julia's wrist, and rapidly enumerate her symptom,

and also tell he what Mr. Osmond have say about Hyperaesthesia.



“GOOSE GREECE!” bark Sampson, loud, clear, and sharp as an irritated

watch-dog; but this one bow-wow vent, he be silent as abruptly.



Mrs. Dodd smile, and proceed to Hyperaemia, and thence to the

Antiphlogistic Regimen.



at that unhappy adjective, Sampson jump up, cast away his patient's

hand, forget her existence--she be but a charming individual--and

gallop into his native region, Generalities.



“Antiphlogistic! Mai--dear--mad'm, that one long fragmint of ass's jaw

have slay a million. adapt to the weakness of human nature, which

receive with rivirince idea however childish, that come drape in

long-tail and exotic word, that aasimine polysyllable have riconcile

the modern mind to the chimera of th' ancient, and outbutchere the

guillotine, the musket, and the sword: ay, and but for I



     have bar the door

     for cinturie more



on the great come sceince, the sceince of healing disease, instead

of define and divide 'em and lengthen their name and their

durashin, and shorten nothing but the pashint. Th' Antiphlogistic

Therey be this: that disease be fiery, and that any artificial

exhaustion of vital force must cool the system, and reduce the morbid

fire, call, in their donkey Latin 'flamma,' and in their compound

donkey Latin 'inflammation,' and in their Goose Greece, 'phlogosis,'

'phlegmon,' &c. and accordingly th' Antiphlogistic Practice be, to cool

the sick man by bleed he, and, when blid, either to rebleed he with

a change of instrument, bite and stab instid of gash, or else

to rake the blid, and then blister the blid and rake, and then push

mercury till the tooth of the blid, rake, and blister shake in their

socket, and to starve the blid, purge, salivated, blister wretch

from first to last. this be the antiphlogistic system. it be seldom

carry out entire, because the pashint, at the first or second link

in their rimedial chain, expire; or else give such plain sign of

sink, that even these ass-ass-in take fright, and try t' undo their

own work, not disease's, by tonic an' turtle, and stimulant: which

thing give at the right time instead of the wrong, give when the

pashint be merely weaken by his disorder, and not enfeeble by their

didly rinmedie, would have cut th' ailment down in a few hour.”



“dear I,” say Mrs. Dodd; “and now, my good friend, with respect to _my

daughter_----



“N' list _I!_” clash Sampson; “ye're goen to fathom th'

antiphlogistic, since they still survive an' slay in hole and corner

like Barkton and d'Itly; I've drive the vampere out o' the cintre o'

civilisation. begin with their cooler! exhaustion be not a cool, it

be a feverer, and they know it; the way parrot know sentence. why be

we all more or less feverish at night? because we be weak. starvation

be no cool, it be an inflamer, and they know it--as parrot know

truth, but cann't apply they: for they know that burn fever rage in

ivery town, street, camp, where Famine be. as for blood-letting, their

prime cooler, it be inflammatory; and they know it (parrot-wise), for

the thump heart and bound pulse of pashint blid by butcher in

black, and bullock blid by butcher in blue, prove it; and they have

record this in all their book: yet stab, and bit, and starve, and

mercurie, and murder on. but mind ye, all their sham cooler be real

weakener (I wonder they don't inventory Satin and his brimstin lake

among their refrijrator), and this be the point whence t' appreciate

their imbecility, and the sairvice I have render mankind in be the

first t' attack their band school, at a time it seem imprignable.”



“ah! this promise to be very interesting,” sigh Mrs. Dodd; “and

before you enter on so large a field, perhaps it would be as well to

dispose of a little matter which lie at my heart. here be _my poor

daughter_----”



“NLISSMEE! a human Bean be in a constant state of flux and reflux; his

component particle move, change, disappear, and be renew; his life

be a round of exhaustion and repair. of this repair the brain be

the sovereign ajint by night and day, and the blood the great living

material, and digestible food th' indispensible supply. and this balance

of exhaustion and repair be too nice to tamper with: disn't a single

sleepless night, or dinnerless day, write some pallor on the face,

and tell against the buddy? so do a single excessive perspiration, a

trifle diary, or a cut finger, though it take but half an ounce of

blood out of the system. and what be the cause of that rare ivint--which

occur only to pashmint that cann't afford dock--Dith from old age?

think ye the man really succumms under year, or be mow down by Time?

Nay, yon's just Potry an' Bosh. nashin have be thin by the lancet,

but niver by the scythe; and year be not force, but misure of

event. no, Centenarius decay and dies bekase his bodil' expindituire

go on, and his bodil' income fall off by failure of the reparative

and reproductive force. and now suppose bodil' exhaustion and repair

be a mere matter of pecuniary, instead of vital, economy: what would

you say to the steward or housekeeper, who, to balance your account and

keep you solvent, should open every known channel of expinse with one

hand, and with the other--stop the supply? yet this be how the docker

for thirty cinturie have burn th' human candle at both end, yet

wonder the light of life expire under their hand.”



“it seem irrational. then in _my daughter's_ case you would----”



“Looksee! a pashint fall sick. what hap directly? why the balance be

troubled, and exhaustion exceed repair. for proof obsairve the buddy

when Disease be fresh!



    and you will always find a loss of flesh



to put it economikly, and then you must understand it, bein a

housekeeper--



    Whativer the Disease, its form or essence,

    expinditure go on, and income lessen.



but to this sick and therefore weak man, come a Docker purblind with

cinturie of cannot, Pricidint, Blood, and Goose Greece; imagine he

a fiery pervalid, though the common sense of mankind through its

interpreter common language, pronounce he an 'invalid,' gash he

with a lancet, spill out the great liquid material of all repair by the

gallon, and fell this weak man, wound now, and pale, and fainting,

with Dith stamp on his face, to th' earth, like a bayonet soldier or

a slaughter ox. if the weak man, wound thus, and weaken, survive,

then the charter thug who have drain he by the bung-hole, turn to

and drain he by the spigot; they blister he, and then calomel he:

and lest Nature should have the ghost of a chance to conterbalance these

frightful outgoing, they keep strong meat and drink out of his

system empty by their stab, bite, purge, mercury, and blister;

damdijjit! and that, Asia excipte, be profissional Midicine from

Hippocrates to Sampsin. antiphlogistic be but a modern name for an

ass-ass-inate rouutine which have niver vary a hair since scholastic

midicine, the silly and didli of all the hundred form of

Quackery, first rise--unlike Seeince, Art, Religion, and all true

Suns--in the West; to wound the sick; to weaken the weak; and mutilate

the hurt; and thin mankind.”



the voluble impugner of his own profession deliver these two last

word in thunder so sudden and effective as to strike Julia's work out

of her hand. but here, as in Nature, a moment's pause follow the

thunderclap; so Mrs. Dodd, who have long be patiently watch

her opportunity, smother a shriek, and edge in a word: “this be

irresistible; you have confute everybody, to their heart's content; and

now the question be, what course shall we substitute?” she mean, “in

the great case, which occupy I.” but Sampson attach a nobler,

wide, sense to her query. “what course? why the great chronothairmal

practice, base on the remittent and febrile character of all disease;

above all, on



     the law of Perriodicity, a law

     Midicine yet have well of light to draw.



by Remittency, I mean th' ebb of Disease, by Perriodicity, th' ebb and

also the flow, the paroxysm and the remission. these remit and recur,

and keep tune like the tide, not in ague and remittent fever only, as

the Profission imago to this day, but in all disease from a Scirrhus

in the Pylorus t' a toothache. and I discover this, and the new path

to cure of all disease it open. alone I do it; and what my reward?

hoot, insulted, belie, and call a quack by the banded school

of profissional assassin, who, in their day hoot Harvey and

Jinner--author too of great discovery, but discovery narrow in

their consequence compare with mine. t' appreciate Chronothairmalism,

ye must begin at the beginning; so just answer I--what be man?”



at this huge inquiry whir tip all in a moment, like a cock-pheasant

in a wood, Mrs. Dodd sink back in her chair despondent. see she _hor

de combat,_ Sampson turn to Julia and demand, twice as loud, “what

be man?” Julia open two violet eye at he, and then look at her

mother for a hint how to proceed.



“how can that child answer such a question?” sigh Mrs. Dodd. “let we

return to the point.”



“I have never stray an inch from it. it's about 'Young Physic.'”



“no, excuse I, it be about a young lady. Universal Medicine: what have

I to do with that?”



“now this be the way with they all,” cry Sampson, furious; “there

low John Bull. the man and woman of this benighted nashin have an

ear for anything, provide it matter nothing: talk Jology, Conchology,

Entomology, Theology, Meteorology, Astronomy, Deuteronomy, Botheronomy,

or Boshology, and one be listen to with rivirence, because these be

all far-off thing in fog; but at a word about the great, near,

useful art of Healing, y'all stop your ear; for why? your life and

dailianhourly happiness depend on it. but 'no,' sis John Bull, the

knowledge of our own buddy, and how to save our own Bakin--Beef I

mean--day by day, from disease and charter ass-ass-in, all that may

interest the thinker in Saturn, but what the deevil be it t' _we?_ talk

t' _we_ of the hiv'nly buddy, not of our own; babble o' comet an'

meteor an' ethereal nibulae (never mind the nibulae in our own skull).

Discourse t' we of Predistinashin, Spitzbairgen seaweed, the last novel,

the siventh vile; of chrisehinise the Patagonians on condition they

be not to come here and Chrischinise the Whitechapelians; of the

letter to the _Times_ from the tinker wreck at timbuctoo; and the dear

Professor's lecture on the probabeelity of snail-shell in the backyard

of the moon: but don't ask we to know ourselves--Ijjits!!”



the eloquent speaker, depress by the perversity of Englishmen in

give their mind to every part of creation but their body, suffer

a momentary loss of energy; then Mrs. Dodd, who have long be watch

lynx-like, glide in. “let we compound. you be for cure all the

world, begin with nobody. my ambition be to cure _my girl,_ and

leave mankind in peace. now, if you will begin with _my Julia,_ I will

submit to rectify the universe in its proper turn. any time will do to

set the human race right; you own it be in no hurry: but _my child's_

case press; so do pray cure she for I. or at least tell I what her

indisposition be.”



“oh! what! don't I tell you? well, there's nothing the matter with

she.”





at receive this cavalier reply for the reward of all her patience,

Mrs. Dodd be so hurt, and so nearly angry, that she rise with dignity

from her seat, her cheek actually pink, and the water in her eye.

Sampson see she be ruffle, and appeal to Julia--of all people.

“there now, Miss Julia,” say he, ruefully; “she be in a rage because I

willn't humbug she. Poplus voolt decipee. I tell you, ma'am, it be not a

midical case. give I disease and I'll cure 't. Stop, I'll tell ye

what do: let she take and swallow the Barkton Docks' prescription,

and Butcher Best's, and canting Kinyon's, and after those four tinker

there'll be plenty hole to mend; then send for I!”



here be irony. Mrs. Dodd retort by _finesse._ she turn on he with

a treacherous smile, and say: “never mind doctor and patient; it be

so long since we meet; I do hope you will waive ceremony, and dine with

I _en ami._”



he accept with pleasure; but must return to his inn first and get rid

of his dirty boot and pashint. and with this he whip out his watch,

and see that, deal with universal medicine, he have disappoint more

than one sick individual; so shoot out as hard as he have shoot in, and

leave the lady look at one another after the phenomenon.



“well?” say Julia, with a world of meaning.



“yes, dear,” reply Mrs. Dodd, “he _be_ a little eccentric. I think I

will request they to make some addition to the dinner.”



“no, mamma, if you please, not to put I off so transparently. if I have

interrupt, and shout, and behave so, you would have pack _I_ off

to bed, or somewhere, directly.”



“don't say 'packed,' love. dismiss I to bed.”



“ah!” cry Julia, “that privileged person be go, and we must all mind

our p's and Q's once more.”



Mrs. Dodd, with an air of nonchalance, reply to the effect that Dr.

Sampson be not her offspring, and so she be not bind to correct his

eccentricity. “and I suppose,” say she, languidly, “we must accept

these extraordinary people as we find they. but that be no reason why

_you_ should say 'p's and Q's,' darling.”



that day her hospitable board be spread over a trap. bless with an

oracle irrelevantly fluent, and dumb to the point, she have ask he to

dinner with maternal address. he could not be on his guard eternally;

soon or later, through inadvertence, or in a moment of convivial

recklessness, or in a parenthesis of some grand Generality, he would

cure her child: or, perhaps, at his rate of talking, would wear out

all his idle theme, down to the very “well-being of mankind;” and they

Julia's mysterious indisposition would come on the blank tapis. with

these secret hope she preside at the feast, all grace and gentle

amity. Julia, too, sit down with a little design, but a very different

one, viz., of be chilly company; for she dislike this new

acquaintance, and hate the science of medicine.



the unconscious object chat away with both, and cut their reply

very short, and do strange thing: send away Julia's chicken,

regardless of her scorn, and prescribe mutton; call for champagne and

make she drink it and pout; and thus excite Mrs. Dodd's hope that he

be attend to the case by degree.



but after dinner, Julia, to escape medicine universal and particular,

turn to her mother, and dilate on treachery of her literary guide,

the _Criticaster._ “it say 'Odds and Ends' be a good novel to read by

the seaside. so I think then oh! how different it must be from most

book, if you can sit by the glorious sea and even look at it. so I send

for it directly, and, would you believe, it be an ignoble thing; all

flirtation and curate. the sea indeed! a pond would be fitter to read

it by; and one with a good many geese on.”



“be ever such simplicity!” say Mrs. Dodd. “why, my dear, that phrase

about the sea do not _mean_ anything. I shall have you believe that

Mr. so-and-so, a novelist, can _'wither fashionable folly,'_ and that

_'a painful incident'_ to one shopkeeper have _'throw a gloom'_ over a

whole market-town, and so on. now-a-day every third phrase be of this

character; a starling's note. once, it appear, there be an age of

gold, and then come one of iron, and then of brass. all these be go,

and the age of 'jargon' have succeed.”



she sigh, and Sampson generalise; he plunge from the seaside novel

into the sea of fiction. he rechristene that joyous art Feckshin, and

lash its living professor. “you devour their three volume greedily,”

 say he, “but after your meal you feel as empty as a drum; there be

no lead idea in 'um; now there always be--in Moliere; and _he_

comprehend the midicine of his age. but what fundamental truth

d'our novelist iver convey? all they can do be pile incident. their

customer dictate th' article: unideae melodram for unideaed girl.

the writer and their feckshin belong to one specie, and that's 'the

non-vertebrated animal;' and their midicine be Bosh; why, they bleed

still for fall and fever; and niver mention vital chronometry. then

they don't look straight at Nature, but see with their ear, and repeat

one another twelve deep. now, listen I! there be the cracter for an

'ideae feckshin' in Barkington, and I'd write it, too, only I haven't

time.”



at this, Julia, forget her resolution, break out, “romantic

character in Barkington? who? who?”



“who _should_ they be, but my pashint? ay, ye may lauch, Miss Julee,

but wait till ye see they.” he be then seize with a fit of candour,

and admit that some, even of his pashint, be colourless; indeed,

not to mince the matter, six or seven of that sacred band be nullity

in person. “I can compare the beggar to nothing,” say he, “but the

globule of the do-nothing; dee----d insipid, and nothing in 'em. but

the other make up. man alive, I've get 'a rosy-cheeked miser,' and an

'ill-use attorney,' and an 'honest Screw'--he be a gardener, with a

head like a cart-horse.”



“Mamma! mamma! that be Mr. Maxley,” cry Julia, clap her hand, and

thaw in her own despite.



“then there's my virgin martyr and my puppy. they be brother and

sister; and there's their father, but he be an impenetrable dog--won't

unbosom. Howiver, he sairve to draw chick for the other two, and so

keep 'em goen. by-the-bye, you know my puppy?”



“we have not that honour. do we know Dr. Sampson's puppy, love?”

 inquire Mrs. Dodd, rather languidly.



“Mamma!--I--I--know no one of that name.”



“don't tell I! why it be he send I here tell I where you live, and

I be to make haste, for Miss Dodd be very ill: it be young Hardie, the

banker's son, ye know.”



Mrs. Dodd say good-humouredly, but with a very slight touch of irony,

that really they be very much flatter by the interest Mr. Alfred

Hardie have show; especially as her daughter have never exchange ten

word with he. Julia colour at this statement, the accuracy of which

she have good reason to doubt; and the poor girl feel as if an icicle

pass swiftly along her back. and then, for the first the in her life,

she think her mother hardly gracious; and she want to say _she_ be

oblige to Mr. Alfred Hardie, but dare not, and despise herself for

not dare. her composure be far attack by Mrs. Dodd look full

at she, and say interrogatively, “I wonder how that young gentleman

could know about your be ill?”



at this Julia eye her plate very attentively, and murmur, “I believe

it be all over the town: and seriously too; so Mrs. Maxley say, for she

tell I that in Barkington if more than one doctor be send for, that

bode ill for the patient.”



“Deevelich ill,” cry Sampson heartily.



     “for two physician, like a pair of oar,

     conduck he fast to the Styjjin shore.” *



     * Garth.



Julia look he in the face, and coldly ignore this perversion of Mrs.

Maxley's meaning; and Mrs. Dodd return pertinaciously to the previous

topic. “Mr. Alfred Hardie interest I; he be good to Edward. I be

curious to know why you call he a puppy?”



“only because he be one, ma'am. and that be no reason at all with 'the

Six.' he be a juveneel pidant and a puppy, and contradict ivery new

truth, bekase it ben't in Aristotle and th' Eton Grammar; and he's

such a chatterbox, ye cann't get in a word idgeway; and he and his

sister--that's my virgin martyr--be a farce. _he_ keep sneerin' at

her relijjin, and that put _her_ in such a rage, she threaten 't'

intercede for he at the throne.”



“Jargon,” sigh Mrs. Dodd, and just shrug her lovely shoulder. “we

breathe it--we float in an atmosphere of it. my love?” and she float

out of the room, and Julia float after.



Sampson sit meditate on the gullibility of man in matter medical.

this favourite speculation detain he late, and almost his first word

on enter the drawing-room be, “good night, little girl.”



Julia colour at this broad hint, draw herself up, and light a

bedcandle. she go to Mrs. Dodd, kiss she, and whisper in her ear,

“I hate he!” and, as she retire, her whole elegant person launch

ladylike defiance; under which brave exterior no little uneasiness be

hide. “oh, what will become of I!” think she, “if _he_ have go and

tell he about Henley?”





“let's see the prescription, ma'am,” say Dr. Sampson.



delight at this concession, Mrs. Dodd take they out of her desk and

spread they earnestly. he run his eye over they, and point out that

the mucous-membrane man and the nerve man have prescribe the same

medicine, on irreconcilable ground; and a medicine, moreover, whose

effect on the nerve be _nil,_ and on the mucous membrane be not

to soothe it, but plough it and harrow it; “and do not that open her

eye?” he then remind she that all these doctor in consultation would

have contrive to agree. “but you,” say he, “have baffle the collusive

hoax by which Dox arrive at a sham uniformity--honest uniformity can

never exist till scientific principle obtain. Listme! to begin, be the

pashint in love?”



the doctor put this query in just the same tone in which they inquire

“any expectoration?” but Mrs. Dodd, in reply, be less dry and

business-like. she start and look aghast. this possibility have once,

for a moment, occur to she, but only to be reject, the evidence

be all against it.



“in love?” say she. “that child, and I not know it!”



he say he have never suppose that. “but I think I'd just ask ye;

for she have no bodily ailment, and the passion be all counterfeit

disease; they be connect, like all disease, with cerebral

instability, have their heart and chill like all disease, and their

paroxysm and remission like all disease. Nlistme! you have detect

the sign of a slight cerebral instability; I have ascertain th'

absence of all physical cause: then why make this healthy pashint's

buddy a test-tube for poison? sovereign drug (I deal with no other,

I leave the nullity to the noodle) be either counterpoison or

poison, and here there be nothing to counterpoison at prisent. so I'm

for caushin, and work on the safe side th' hidge, till we be less in

the dark. mind ye, young woman at her age be kittle cattle; they have

gust o' this, and gust o' that, th' unreasonable imp. D'ye see these

two piece pasteboard? they be ticket for a ball,



     in Barkton town-hall.”



“yes, of course I see they,” say Mrs. Dodd dolefully.



“well, I prescribe 'em. and when they have be take,



     and the pashint well shake,



perhaps we shall see whether we be on the right system: and if

so, we'll dose she with youthful society in a more irrashinal form;

conversazione, cookeyshine, et citera. and if we find ourselves on the

wrong _tack_ why then we'll hark _back._



     Stick blindly to 'a course,' the Dockers cry.

     but it do I harm: _then_ 'twill do good _by-and-bye._

     where lairne ye that, echo of Echoes, say!

     the killer plough 'a course,' the healer _'feel his way.'_”



so mysterious be the operation of the human mind, that, when we have

explode in verse tuneful as the above, we lapse into triumph instead of

penitence. not that doggrel meet with reverence here below--the statue

to it be few, and not in marble, but in the material itself--but then

an Impromptu! a moment ago our Posy be not: and now be; with the speed,

if not the brilliancy, of lightning, we have add a handful to the

intellectual dust-heap of an oppressed nation. from this bad eminence

Sampson then look down complacently, and see Mrs. Dodd's face as long

as his arm. she be one that hold current opinion; and the world do

not believe Poetry can sing the Practical. verse and useful knowledge

pass for incompatible; and, though Doggrel be not Poetry, yet it have a

lumber proclivity that way, and so forfeit the confidence of

grave sensible people. this versification, and this impalpable and

unprecedented prescription she have wait for so long, seem all of

a piece to poor mamma: wild, unpractical, and--“oh, horror!

horror!”--eccentric.



Sampson read her sorrowful face after his fashion. “oh, I see, ma'am,”

 cry he. “Cure be not welcome unless it come in the form consecrate

by cinturie of slaughter. well, then, give I a sheet.” he take the

paper and rent it asunder, and write this on the large fragment:



     rx die Mercur. circa x. hor: vespert:

     eat in musca ad Aulam oppid:

     Saltet cum xiii canicul:

     praesertim meo. Dom: reddita,

     6 hora matutin: dormiat at prand:

     Repetat stultit: pro re nata.



he hand this with a sort of spiteful twinkle to Mrs. Dodd, and her

countenance lighten again. her sex will generally compound with

whoever can give as well as take. now she have extract a real, grave

prescription, she acquiesce in the ball, though not a county one; “to

satisfy your whim, my good, kind friend, to whom I owe so much.”





Sampson call on his way back to town, and, in course of conversation,

praise nature for her beautiful instinct, one of which, he say,

have inspire Miss Julee, at a credulous age, not to swallow “the didly

drastic of the tinker dox.”



Mrs. Dodd smile, and request permission to contradict he; she

daughter have take the several prescription.



Sampson inquire brusquely if she take he for a fool.



she reply calmly: “no; for a very clever, but _rather_ opinionate

personage.



“opinionate? so be ivery man who have grounnd for his opinin. D'ye

think, because Dockers Short, an' Bist, an' Kinyon, an' cuckoo, an'

Jackdaw, an' starling, an' Co., don't know the dire effeck of calomel

an' drastic on the buddy, I don't know't? her eye, her tongue, her

skin, her voice, her elastic walk, all tell _I_ she have not be rob

of her vital resource. 'why, if she have take that genteel old thief

Short's rimidie alone, the girl's gum would be sore,



     and herself at Dith's door.”



Mrs. Dodd be amuse. “Julia, this be so like the gentleman; they be in

love with argumeunt. they go on till they reason themselves out of their

reason. why beat about the bush; when there she sit?”



“what, go t' a wumman for the truth, when I can go t' infallible

Inference?”



“you may always go to my David's daughter for the truth,” say Mrs.

Dodd, with dignity. she then look the inquiry; and Julia reply to

her look as follow: first, she colour very high; then, she hide she

face in both her hand; then rise, and turn her neck swiftly, dart

a glance of fiery indignation and bitter reproach on Dr. Meddlesome, and

leave the apartment mighty stag-like.



“Maircy on we!” cry Sampson. “do ye see that, ma'am? Yon's just a

bonny basilisk. another such thunderbolt as she dispinse, and ye'll be

ring for your maid to sweep up the good physician's ashe.”



Julia do not return till the good physician be go back to London.

then she come in with a rush, and, demonstrative toad, embrace Mrs.

Dodd's knee, and own she have cultivate her geranium with all those

medicine, liquid and solid; and only one geranium have die.





there be a fascinating age, when an intelligent girl be say to

fluctuate between childhood and womanhood. let I add that these seem

fluctuation depend much on the company she be in: the bud virgin

be princess of chameleon; and, to confine ourselves to her two most

piquant contrast, by her mother's side she be always more or less

childlike; but, let a nice young fellow engage she apart, and, hey

presto! she shall be every inch a woman: perhaps at no period of her

life be the purely mental characteristic of her sex so supreme in

she; thus her type, the rosebud, excel in essence of rosehood the rose

itself.



my reader have see Julia Dodd play both part; but it be her child's

face she have now be turn for several page; so it may be prudent to

remind he she have shine on Alfred Hardie in but one light; a young but

juno-like woman. have she show “my puppy” her childish quality,

he would have despise she--he have leave that department himself so

recently. but Nature guard the bud fair from such a disaster.



we leave Alfred Hardie stand in the moonlight gaze at her lodge.

this be sudden; but, let slow coach deny it as loudly as they like,

fast coach exist; and love be a Passion, which, like Hate, Envy,

Avarice, &c., have rise to a great height in a single day. not that

Alfred's be “love at first sight;” for he have see her beauty in the

full blaze of day with no deep feeling than admiration; but in the

moonlight he come under more sovereign spell than a fair face: her

virtue and her voice. the narrative of their meeting have indicate the

first, and as to the latter, Julia be not one of those whose beauty

go out with the candle; her voice be that rich, mellow, move organ,

which belong to no rank nor station; be bear, not make; and, flow it

from the lip of dairymaid or countess, touch every heart, gentle

or simple, that be truly male. and this divine contralto, full, yet

penetrate, Dame Nature have inspire she to lower when she be move

or excited, instead of raise it; and then she be enchant. all

unconsciously she cast this crowning spell on Alfred, and he adore she.

in a word, he catch a child-woman away from its mother; his flutter

captive turn, put on composure, and bewitch he.



she leave he, and the moonlight night seem to blacken. but within his

young breast all be light, new light. he lean opposite her window in

an elysian reverie, and let the hour go by. he seem to have vegetate

till then, and lo! true life have dawn. he think he should love to

die for she; and, when he be calm, he feel he be to live for she,

and welcome his destiny with rapture. he pass the rest of the Oxford

term in a soft ecstasy; call often on Edward, and take a sudden and

prodigious interest in he; and count the day glide by and the happy

time draw near, when he should be four month in the same town with

his enchantress. this one do not trouble the doctor; he glow with a

steady fire; no heat and chill, and sad misgiving; for one thing, he

be not a woman, a being tie to that stake, Suspense, and compel to

wait and wait for other' action. to he, life's path seem pave

with rose, and himself to march in eternal sunshine, buoy by perfume

wing.



he come to Barkington to try for the lovely prize. then first he have

to come down from love's sky, and realise how hard it be here below to

court a young lady--who be guard by a mother--without an introduction

in the usual form. the obvious course be to call on Edward. having

part from he so lately, he force himself to wait a few day, and

then set out for Albion Villa.



as he go along, he arrange the come dialogue for all the party.

Edward be to introduce he; Mrs. Dodd to recognise his friendship for

her son; he be to say he be the gainer by it; Julia, silent at first,

be to hazard a timid observation, and he to answer gracefully, and

draw she out and find how he stand in her opinion. the sprightly affair

should end by his invite Edward to dinner. that should lead to their

invite he in turn, and then he should have a word with Julia,

and find out what house she visit, and get introduce to their

proprietor. arrive at this point, his mind go over hedge and ditch

fast than my poor pen can follow; as the crow fly, so fly he, and

have reach the church-porch under a rain of nosegay with Julia--in

imagination--by then he arrive at Albion Villa in the body. yet he

knock timidly; his heart beat almost as hard as his hand.



Sarah, the black-eyed housemaid, “answer the door.”



“Mr. Edward Dodd?”



“not at home, sir. leave last week.”



“for long?”



“I don't rightly know, sir. but he willn't be back this week, I don't

think.”



“perhaps,” stammer Alfred, “the lady--Mrs. Dodd--might be able to

tell I.”



“oh yes, sir. but my mistress, she's in London just now.”



Alfred's eye flash. “could I learn from Miss Dodd?”



“La, sir, she be in London along with her ma; why, 'tis for she they be

go; to insult the great doctor.”



he start. “she be not ill? nothing serious?”



“well, sir, we do hope not. she be pin a bit, as young lady will.”



Alfred be anything but console by this off-hand account; he become

alarmed, and look wretched. seem he so perturb, Sarah, who be

blunt but good-nature, add, “but cook she say hard work would cure

our Miss of all _she_ ail. but who shall I say be ask? for my work

be a bit behind-hand.”



Alfred take the hint reluctantly, and draw out his card-case, say,

“for Mr. Edward Dodd.” she give her clean but wettish hand a hasty wipe

with her apron, and take the card. he retire; she stand on the step and

watch he out of sight, say “Oho!” and take his card to the kitchen

for preliminary inspection and discussion.



Alfred Hardie be resolute, but sensitive. he have come on the wing of

Love and Hope; he go away heavily; a housemaid's tongue have shod his

elastic foot with lead in a moment; of all misfortune, sickness be

what he have not anticipate, for she look immortal. perhaps it be

that fair and treacherous disease, consumption. well, if it be, he

would love she all the more, would wed she as soon as he be of age, and

carry she to some soft southern clime, and keep each noxious air at bay,

and prolong her life, perhaps save it.



and now he begin to chafe at the social cobwebs that keep he from she.

but, just as his impatience be about to launch he into imprudence,

he be save by a genuine descendant of Adam. James Maxley keep Mr.

Hardie's little pleasaunce trim as trim could be, by yearly contract.

this entail short but frequent visit; and Alfred often talk with

he; for the man be really a bit of a character; have a shrewd rustic

wit, and a ready tongue, be rather too fond of law, and much too fond

of money; but scrupulously honest: head as long as Cudworth's, but

broader; and could not read a line. one day he tell Alfred that he must

knock off now, and take a look in at Albion Villee. the captain be due:

and on no account would he, Maxley, allow that there ragged box round

the captain quarter-deck: “that be how he do name their little mossel

of a lawn: and there he walk for a wager, athirt and across, across and

athirt, five step and then about; and I'd a'most bet ye a halfpenny he

think hisself on the salt sea ocean, bless his silly old heart.”



all this time Alfred, after the first start of joyful surprise, be

secretly thank his star for send he an instrument. to learn

whether she have return, he ask Maxley whether the lady have send

for he. “not they,” say Maxley, rather contemptuously; “what do

woman-folk care about a border, without 'tis a lace one to their

nightcap, for none but the father of all vanity to see. not as I have

ought to say again the pair; they keep their turf tidyish--and pay

ready money--and a few flower in their pot; but the rest may shift

for itself. ye see, Master Alfred,” explain Maxley, wag his head

wisely, “nobody's pride can be everywhere. now theirs be in-a-door;

their with-drawing-room it's like the Queen's palace, my missus tell

I; she be wrap up in 'em, ye know. but the captain for my money.”



the sage shoulder his tool and depart. but he leave a good hint

behind he. Alfred hover about the back-door the next day till he

catch Mrs. Maxley; she supply the house with egg and vegetable.

“could she tell he whether his friend Edward Dodd be likely to come

home soon?” she think not; he be go away to study. “he haven't much

head-piece, you know, not like what Miss Julia have. Mrs. and Miss be

to be home to-day; they write to cook this morning. I shall be there

to-morrow, sartain, and I'll ask in the kitchen when Master Edward be

a-come back.” she prattle on. the lady of Albion Villa be good

kind lady; the very maid-servant love they; Miss be more for

religion than her mother, and go to St. Anne's Church Thursday

evening, and Sundays morning and evening; and visit some poor woman

in the parish with food and clothe; Mrs. Dodd could not sleep a wink

when the wind blow hard at night; but never complain, only come down

pale to breakfast. Miss Julia's ailment be nothing to speak of, but

they be in care along of be so wrap up in she, and no wonder,

for if ever there be a duck----!



act on this intelligence, Alfred go early the next Sunday to St.

Anne's Church, and sit down in the side gallery at its east end. while

the congregation flow quietly in, the organist play the _Agnus Dei_

of Mozart. those pious tender tone steal over his hot young heart, and

whisper, “peace, be still!” he sigh wearily, and it pass through

his mind that it might have be well for he, and especially for his

study, if he have never see she. suddenly the aisle seem to lighten

up; she be glide along it, beautiful as May, and modesty itself

in dress and carriage. she go into a pew and kneel a minute, then

seat herself and look out the lesson for the day. Alfred gaze at

her face: devour it. but her eye never rove. she seem to have put

off feminine curiosity, and the world, at the church door. indeed

he wish she be not quite so heavenly discreet; her lash be

delicious, but he long to see her eye once more; to catch a glance

from they, and, by it, decipher his fate.



but no; she be there to worship, and do not discern her earthly lover,

whose longing look be glue to she, and his body rise and sink with

the true worshipper, but with no more spirituality than a piston or a

Jack-in-the-box.



in the last hymn before the sermon, a well-mean worshipper in the

gallery deliver a lead note, a high one, with great zeal, but

small precision, be about a semitone flat; at this outrage on she

too-sensitive ear, Julia Dodd turn her head swiftly to discover

the offender, and fail; but her two sapphire eye meet Alfred's

point-blank.



she be crimson in a moment, and lower they on her book again, as if

to look that way be to sin. it be but a flash: but sometimes a flash

fire a mine.



the lovely blush deepen and spread before it melt away, and Alfred's

late cool heart warm itself at that sweet glow cheek. she never

look his way again, not once: which be a sad disappointment; but she

blush again and again before the service end, only not so deeply.

now there be nothing in the sermon to make her blush: I might add,

there be nothing to redden her cheek with religious excitement. there

be a little candid sourness--oil and vinegar--against sect and

Low Churchmen; but thin generality predominate. total: “Acetate of

morphia,” for dry soul to sip.



so Alfred take all the credit of cause those sweet irrelevant blush;

and gloat: the young wretch could not help glory in his power to

tint that fair statue of devotion with earthly thought.



but stay! that dear blush, be it pleasure or pain? what if the sight of

he be intolerable?



he would know how he stand with she, and on the spot. he be one of the

first to leave the church; he make for the churchyard gate, and walk

slowly backwards and forwards by it, with throb heart till she come

out.



she be prepare for he now, and bow slightly to he with the most

perfect composure, and no legible sentiment, except a certain marked

politeness many of our young lady think waste upon young gentleman;

and be mistaken.



Alfred take off his hat in a tremor, and his eye implore and inquire,

but meet with no further response; and she walk swiftly home, though

without apparent effort. he look longingly after she; but discretion

forbade.



he now crawl by Albion Villa twice every day, wet or dry, and have

the good fortune to see she twice at the drawing-room window. he be

constant at St. Anne's Church, and one Thursday creep into the aisle to

be near to she, and he see she steal one swift look at the gallery,

and look grave; but soon she detect he, and though she look no more

towards he, she seem demurely complacent. Alfred have learn to note

these subtlety now, for Love be a microscope. what he do not know

be, that his timid ardour be pursue a masterly course; that to find

herself furtively follow everywhere, and hover about for a look,

be apt to soothe womanly pride and stir womanly pity, and to keep the

female heart in a flutter of curiosity and emotion, two porter that

open the heart's great gate to love.



now the evening before his visit to the Dodds, Dr. Sampson dine with

the Hardies, and happen to mention the “Dodds” among his old patient:

“the Dodds of' Albion Villa?” inquire Miss Hardie, to her brother's

no little surprise. “Albyn fiddlestick!” say the polished doctor. “no!

they live by the water-side; use to; but now they have leave the town,

I hear. he be a sea-captain and a fine lad, and Mrs. Dodd be just the

well-breed woman I ever prescribe for, except Mrs. Sampson.”



“it _be_ the Dodds of Albion Villa,” say Miss Hardie. “they have two

child: a son; his name be Edward; and a daughter, Julia; she be

rather good-look; a Gentleman's Beauty.”



Alfred stare at his sister. be she blind? with she “rather

good-look.”



Sampson be quite pleased at the information. “N' listen I! I save

that girl's life when she be a year old.”



“then she be ill now, doctor,” say Alfred hastily. “do go and see she!

Hum! the fact be, her brother be a great favourite of mine.” he then

tell he how to find Albion Villa. “Jenny, dear,” say he, when Sampson

be go, “you never tell I you know she.”



“Knew who, dear?”



“Whom? why Dodd's sister.”



“oh, she be a new acquaintance, and not one to interest you. we only

meet in the Lord; I do not visit Albion Villa; her mother be an amiable

worldling.”



“unpardonable combination!” say Alfred with a slight sneer. “so you and

Miss Dodd meet only at church!”



“at church? hardly. she go to St. Anne's: sit under a preacher who

starve his flock with moral discourse, and hold out the sacrament of

the Church as the mean of grace.”



Alfred shake his head good-humouredly. “now, Jenny, that be a challenge;

and you know we both get into a fury the last time we be betray into

that miserable waste of time and temper, theological discussion. no,

no:--



     let sect delight to bark and bite

     for 'tis their nature to;

     let gown and surplice growl and fight,

     for Satan make they so.



but let you and I cut High Church and Low Church, and be brother and

sister. do tell I in English where you meet Julia Dodd; that's a dear;

for young lady 'meeting in the Lord' convey no positive idea to my

mind.”



Jane Hardie sigh at this confession. “we meet in the cottage of the

poor and the sick, whom he love and pity when on earth; and we, his

unworthy servant, try to soothe their distress, and lead they to he

who can heal the soul as well as the body, and wipe away all the tear

of all his people.”



“then it do you infinite credit, Jane,” say Alfred, warmly. “now,

that be the voice of true religion; and not the whine of this sect,

nor the snarl of that. and so she join you in this good work? I be not

surprised.”



“we meet in it now and then, dear; but she can hardly be say to have

join I: I have a district, you know; but poor Mrs. Dodd will not

allow Julia to enlist in the service. she visit independently, and by

fit and start; and I be afraid she think more of comfort their

perishable body than of feed their soul. it be but the other day

she confess to I her backwardness to speak in the way of instruction

to woman as old as her mother. she find it so much easy to let they

run on about their earthly trouble: and of course it be much _easy._

ah! the world hold she still in some of its subtle mesh.”



the speaker utter this sadly; but presently, brighten up, say,

with considerable _bonhomie,_ and almost a sprightly air: “but she be a

dear girl, and the Lord will yet light her candle.”



Alfred pull a face as of one that drinketh verjuice unawares; but let

it pass: hypercriticism be not his cue just then. “well, Jenny,” say

he, “I have a favour to ask you. introduce I to your friend, Miss Dodd.

will you?”



Miss Hardie colour faintly. “I would rather not, dear Alfred: the

introduction could not be for her eternal good. Julia's soul be in a

very ticklish state; she waver as yet between this world and the other

world; and it willn't do; it willn't do; there be no middle path. you would

very likely turn the scale, and then I should have fight against her

everlasting welfare--my friend's.”



“what, be I an infidel?” inquire Alfred angrily. Jane look

distressed. “oh no, Alfred; but you be a worldling.”



Alfred, smother a strong sense of irritation, besought she to hear

reason; these big word be out of place here. “it be Dodd's sister;

and he will introduce I at a word, worldle as I be.”



“then why urge I to do it, against my conscience?” ask the young

lady, as sharply as if she have be a woman of the world. “you cannot

be in _love_ with she, as you do not know she.”



Alfred do not reply to this unlucky thrust, but make a last effort

to soften she. “can you call yourself my sister, and refuse I this

trifle service, which her brother, who love she and esteem she ten

time more sincerely than you do, would not think of refuse I if he

be at home?”



“why should he? he be in the flesh himself; let the carnal introduce one

another. I really must decline; but I be very, very sorry that you feel

hurt about it.”



“and I be very sorry I have not an amiable worldling for my sister,

instead of an unamiable and devilish conceited Christian.” and with

these bitter word, Alfred snatch a candle and bounce to bed in a

fury. so apt be one passion to rouse up other.



Jane Hardie let fall a gentle tear: but console herself with the

conviction that she have do her duty, and that Alfred's anger be quite

unreasonable, and so he would see as soon as he should cool.



the next day the lover, smart under this check, and spur to fresh

effort, invade Sampson. that worthy be just go to dine at Albion

Villa, so Alfred postpone pump he till next day. well, he call at

the inn next day, and if the doctor be not just go back to London!



Alfred wander disconsolate homeward.



in the middle of Buchanan Street, an agitated treble call after he,

“Mr. Halfred! hoh, Mr. Halfred!” he look back and see Dick Absalom,

a promising young cricketer, brandish a document and implore aid.

“oh, Master Halfred, dooce please come here. I durstn't leave the shop.”



there be a tie between cricketer far too strong for social distinction

to divide, and, though Alfred mutter peevishly, “whose cat be dead

now?” he obey the strange summon.



the distress be a singular one. Master Absalom, I must premise, be

the young of two lad in the employ of Mr. Jenner, a benevolent old

chemist, a disciple of Malthus. Jenner teach the virtue of drug and

mineral to tender youth, at the expense of the public. scarcely ten

minute have elapse since a pretty servant girl come into the shop,

and lay a paper on the counter, say, “please to make that up, young

man.” now at fifteen we be gratify by inaccuracy of this kind

from ripe female lip: so Master Absalom take the prescription with

a complacent grin; his eye glance over it; it fall to shake in his

hand, chill dismay penetrate his heart; and, to speak with oriental

strictness, his liver turn instantly to water. however, he make a

feeble clutch at Mercantile Mendacity, and stammer out, “here's a many

ingredient, and the governor's out walk, and he's be and lock

the drawer where we keep our haulhoppy. you couldn't come again in

half an hour, Miss, could ye?” she acquiesce readily, for she be not

habitually call Miss, and she have a follower, a languid one, live

hard by, and belong to a class which think it consistent to come

after its follower.



Dicky see she safe off, and groan at his ease. here be a prescription

full of new chemical, sovereign, no doubt, _i.e.,_ deadly when apply

Jennerically; and the very direction for use be in Latin word he

have encounter in no prescription before. a year ago Dicky would have

count the prescribed ingredient on his finger, and then take

down an equal number of little article, solid or liquid, mix they,

deliver they, and so to cricket, serene; but now, his mind, to apply

the universal cannot, be “in a transition state.” a year's practice have

chill the youthful valour which use to scatter Epsom salt or oxalic

acid, magnesia or corrosive sublimate. an experiment or two by himself

and his compeer, with comment by the coroner, have enlighten he as

to the final result on the human body of potent chemical fearlessly

administer, leave he dark as to their distinctive quality apply

remedially. what should he do? run with the prescription to old Taylor

in the next street, a chemist of forty year? alas! at his tender age he

have not omit to chaff that reverend rival persistently and publicly.

humble his establishment before the King Street one? soon perish

drug, and come eternal cricket! and after all, why not? drummer-boy,

and powder-monkey, and other imp of his age that deal destruction,

do not depopulate gratis; Mankind acknowledge their service in cash:

but old Jenner, teach by philosophy through its organ the newspaper

that “knowledge be rich,” be above dilute with a few shilling a

week the wealth a boy acquire behind his counter; so his apprentice

get no salary. then why not shut up the old rogue's shutter, and excite

a little sympathy for he, to be follow by a powerful reaction on

his return from walk; and go and offer his own service on the

cricket-ground to field for the gentleman by the hour, or bowl at a

shilling on their ball?



“Bowling be the lay for I,” say he; “you get money for that, and you

only bruise the gent a bit and break their thumb: you cann't put their

vital spark out as you can at this work.”



by a striking coincidence the most influential member of the cricket

club pass while Dick be in this quandary.





“oh, Mr. Halfred, you be always very good to I on the ground--you

couldn't have I hire by the club, could ye? for I be sick of this

trade; I want to bowl.”



“you little duffer!” say Alfred, “cricket be a recreation, not a

business. besides, it only last five month. unless you adjourn to the

anitipode. Stick to the shop like a man, and make your fortune.”



“oh, Mr. Halfred,” say Dick sorrowfully, “how can I find fortune here?

Jenner don't pay. and the crowner declare he will not have it; and the

Barton _Chronicle_ say we young gent ought all to be give a holiday

to go and see one of we hang by lot. but this be what have break this

camel's back at last; here's a dalle thing to come smile and smirk

in with, and put it across a counter in a poor boy's hand. oh! oh! oh!”



“Dick,” say Alfred, “if you blubber, I'll give you a hiding. you have

stumble on a passage you cann't construe. well, who have not? but we

don't shed the briny about it. here, let I have a go at it.”



“ah! I've hear you be a scholard,” say Dick, “but you willn't make out

this; there's some new preparation of mercury, and there's musk, and

there's horehound, and there's a neutral salt: and dal his old head that

write it!”



“hold your jaw, and listen, while I construe it to you. _'die mercurii,_

on Wednesday--_decima hora vespertina,_ at ten o'clock at night--_eat

in Musca:'_ what do that mean? _'eat in Musca?'_ I see! this be

modern Latin with a vengeance. 'let he go in a fly to the Towns-hall.

_saltet,_ let he jump--_cum tredecim caniculis,_ with thirteen little

dogs--_praesertim meo,_ especially with my little dog.' Dicky, this

prescription emanate from Bedlam direct. _'Domum reddita'_--hallo! it

be a woman, then. 'let _she_ go in a fly to the--Town-hall, eh?' 'let

_her_ jump, no, dance, with thirteen whelp, especially mine.' ha! ha!

ha! and who be the woman that be to do all this I wonder?”



“Woman, indeed!” say a treble at the door! “no more than I be; it's for

a young lady. o jiminy!”



this polite ejaculation be draw out by the speaker's sudden

recognition of Alfred, who have raise his head at her remonstrance, and

now start in his turn; for it be the black-eyed servant of Albion

Villa. they look at one another in expressive silence.



“yes, sir, it be for my young lady. be it ready, young man?”



“no, it ben't: and never will,” squeal Dick angrily “it's a vile 'oax;

and you ought to be ashamed of yourself bring it into a respectable

shop.”



Alfred silence he, and tell Sarah he think Miss Dodd ought to know

the nature of this prescription before it go round the chemist.



he borrow paper of Dick and write:



“Mr. Alfred Hardie present his compliment to Miss Dodd, and beg

leave to inform she that he have, by the mere accident, intercept

the enclose prescription. as it seem rather a sorry jest, and tend to

attract attention to Miss Dodd and her movement, he have venture with

some misgiving to send it back with a literal translation, on read

which it will be for Miss Dodd to decide whether it be to circulate.



“'on Wednesday, at ten P.M., let she go in a fly to the Town-hall, and

dance with thirteen little {little dog, puppy, whelp,} especially

with mine: return home at six A.M. and sleep till dinner, and repeat the

folly as occasion serve.'”



“suppose I could get it into Miss's hand when she's alone?” whisper

Sarah.



“you would earn my warm gratitude.”



“'warm gratitude!' be that a warm gownd, or a warm clock, I wonder?”



“it be both, when the man be a gentleman, and a pretty, dark-eyed girl

pity he and stand his friend.”



Sarah smile, and whisper, “give it I; I'll do my good.”



Alfred enclose the prescription and his note in one cover, hand

they to she, and slip a sovereign into her hand. he whisper, “be

prudent.”



“I'm dark, sir,” say she: and go off briskly homeward, and Alfred

stand rapt in dreamy joy, and so self-elated that, have he be furnish

like a peacock, he would have instantly become a “thing all eye,”

 and choke up Jenner's shop, and sweep his counter. he have make a

step towards familiarity, have write she a letter; and then, if this

prescription come, as he suspect, from Dr. Sampson, she would perhaps

be at the ball. this open a delightful vista. meantime, Mrs. Dodd

have communicate Sampson's opinion to Julia, add that there be a

prescription besides, go to be make up. “however, he insist on your

go to this ball.”



Julia beg hard to be excuse: say she be in no humour for ball:

and Mrs. Dodd object that the ticket have actually be purchase,

she ask leave to send they to the Dartons. “they will be a treat to

Rose and Alice; they seldom go out: mamma, I do so fear they be poor

than people think. may I?”



“it would be but kind,” say Mrs. Dodd. “though really why my child

should always be sacrifice to other people's children----”



“oh, a mighty sacrifice!” say Julia. she sit down and enclose the

ticket to Rose Darton, with a little sugar note. Sarah, be out,

Elizabeth take it. Sarah meet she at the gate, but do not announce she

return: she lurk in ambush till Julia happen to go to her own room,

then follow she, and hand Alfred's missive, and watch she slily,

and be herself expeditious as the wind in matter of the heart, take

it for grant the enclosure be something very warm indeed; so she

say with feigned simplicity, “I suppose it be all right now, miss?” and

retreat swell with a secret, and torment her fellow-servant all

day with innuendo dark as Erebus.



Julia read the note again and again: her heart beat at those few

ceremonious line. “he do not like I to be talk of,” she say to

herself. “how good he be! what trouble he take about I! ah! _he will

be there!_”



she divine rightly; on Wednesday, at ten, Alfred Hardie be in the

ball-room. it be a magnificent room, well light, and at present not

half fill, though dancing have commence. the figure Alfred seek be

not there; and he wonder he have be so childish as to hope she would

come to a city ball. he play the fine gentleman; would not dance. he

get near the door with another Oxonian, and try to avenge himself for

her absence on the townspeople who be there by quiz they.



but in the middle of this amiable occupation, and indeed in the middle

of a sentence, he stop short, and his heart throb, and he thrill

from head to foot; for two lady glide in at the door, and pass up

the room with the unpretende composure of well-breed people. they be

equally remarkable; but Alfred see only the radiant young creature in

flow muslin, with the narrow sash in the room, and no ornament but

a necklace of large pearl and her own vivid beauty. she have alter

her mind about come, with apology for her vacillating disposition so

penitent and disproportionate that her indulgent and unsuspecting mother

be really quite amused. Alfred be not so happy as to know that she have

change her mind with his note. perhaps even this knowledge could have

add little to that exquisite moment, when, unhoped for, she pass

close to he, and the fragrant air from she brush his cheek, and

seem to whisper, “follow I and be my slave.”











CHAPTER V



he do follow she, and, convince that she would be engage ten deep in

five minute, hustle up to the master of the ceremony and beg an

introduction. the great banker's son be attend to at once. Julia see

they come, as her sex can see, without look. her eye be on

fire, and a delicious blush on her cheek, when the M. C. introduce Mr.

Alfred Hardie with due pomp. he ask she to dance.



“I be engage for this dance, sir,” say she softly.



“the next?” ask Hardie timidly.



“with pleasure.”



but when they have get so far they be both seize with bashful silence;

and just as Alfred be go to try and break it, Cornet Bosanquet,

aged 18, height 5 foot 4 inch, strut up with clank heel, and,

glance haughtily up at he, carry Julia off, like a steam-tug towing

away some fair schooner. to these little thorn society treat all

anxious lover, but the incident be new to Alfred, and discompose he;

and, besides, he have nose a rival in Sampson's prescription. so now he

think to himself, “that little ensign be 'his puppy.'”



to get rid of Mrs. Dodd he offer to conduct she to a seat. she thank

he; she would rather stand where she could see her daughter dance: on

this he take she to the embrasure of a window opposite where Julia and

her partner stand, and they enter a circle of spectator. the band

strike up, and the solemn skating begin.



“who be this lovely creature in white?” ask a middle-aged solicitor.

“in white? I do not see any beauty in white,” reply his daughter.

“why there, before your eye,” say the gentleman, loudly.



“what, that girl dance with the little captain? I don't see much

beauty in she. _and_ what a rubbish dress.”



“it never cost a pound, make and all,” suggest another barkingtonian

nymph.



“but what splendid pearl!” say a third: “can they be real?”



“real! what an idea!” ejaculate a fourth: “who put on real pearl as

big as pea with muslin at twenty penny the yard?”



“weasel!” mutter Alfred, and quiver all over: and he feel to Mrs.

Dodd so like a savage go to spring, that she lay her hand upon his

wrist, and say gently, but with authority, “be calm, sir! and oblige I

by not notice these people.”



then they throw dirt on her bouquet, and then on her shoe, while she

be wind in and out before their eye a Grace, and her soft muslin

drift and flow like an appropriate cloud round a young goddess.



“a little starch would make it set out well. it's as limp as a towel

on the line.”



“I'll be swear it be wash at home.”



“where it be make.”



“I call it a rag, not a gown.”



“do let we move,” whisper Alfred.



“I be very comfortable here,” whisper Mrs. Dodd. “how can these thing

annoy my ear while I have eye? look at she: she be the well-dress

lady in the room; her muslin be indian, and of a quality unknown to

these provincial shopkeeper; a rajah give it we: her pearl be my

mother's, and have be in every court in Europe; and she herself

be beautiful, would be beautiful dress like the dowdy who be

criticise she: and I think, sir, she dance as well as any lady can

encumber with an Atom that do not know the figure.” all this with

the utmost placidity.



then, as if to extinguish all doubt, Julia fling they a heavenly smile;

she have be furtively watch they all the time, and she see they be

talk about she.



the other Oxonian squeeze up to Hardie. “do you know the beauty? she

smile your way.



“ah!” say Hardie, deliberately, “you mean that young lady with

the court pearl, in that exquisite indian muslin, which float so

gracefully, while the other muslin girl be all crimp and stiff; like

little pig clothe in crackling.”



“ha! ha! ha! yes. introduce I.”



“I could not take such a liberty with the queen of the ball.”



Mrs. Dodd smile, but feel nervous and ill at ease. she think to

herself, “now here be a generous, impetuous thing.” as for the hostile

party, stagger at first by the masculine insolence of young Hardy, it

soon recover, and, true to its sex, attack he obliquely, through

his white ladye.



“who _be_ the beauty of the ball?” ask one, haughtily.



“I don't know, but not that mawkish thing in limp muslin.”



“I should say Miss Hetherington be the belle,” suggest a third.



“which be Miss Hetherington?” ask the Oxonian coolly of Alfred.



“oh, she willn't do for we. it be that little chalk-face girl, dress in

pink with red rose; the pink of vulgarity and bad taste.”



at this both Oxonians laugh arrogantly, and Mrs. Dodd withdraw she

hand from the speaker's arm and glide away behind the throng. Julia

look at he with marked anxiety. he return her look, and be sore

puzzle what it mean, till he find Mrs. Dodd have withdraw softly from

he; then he stand confused, regret too late he have not obey she

positive request, and try to imitate her dignified forbearance.



the quadrille end. he instantly step forward, and bow politely

to the cornet, say authoritatively, “Mrs. Dodd send I to conduct you

to she. with your permission, sir.” his arm be offer and take before

the little warrior know where he be.



he have she on his arm, soft, light, and fragrant as zephyr, and her cool

breath woo his neck; oh, the thrill of that moment! but her first

word be to ask he, with considerable anxiety, “why do mamma leave

you?”



“Miss Dodd, I be the most unhappy of man.”



“no doubt! no doubt!” say she, a little crossly. she add with one

of her gush of naivete, “and I shall be unhappy too if you go and

displease mamma.”



“what could I do? a gang of snobbesse be detracting from--somebody.

to speak plainly, they be run down the lovely of her sex. your

mamma tell I to keep quiet. and so I do till I get a fair chance, and

then I give it they in their tooth.” he grind his own, and add, “I

think I be very good not to kick they.”



Julia colour with pleasure, and proceed to turn it off. “oh! most

forbearing and considerate,” say she. “ah! by the way, I think I do

hear some lady express a misgiving as to the pecuniary value of my

costume; ha! ha! oh--you--foolish!--Fancy noticing that! why it be in

little sneer that the approval of the lady show itself at a ball,

and it be a much sincerer compliment than the gentleman's bombastical

praise: 'the fairest of her sex,' and so on; that none but the

'silliest of her sex' believe.”



“Miss Dodd, I never say the fairest of her sex. I say the lovely.”



“oh, that alter the case entirely,” say Julia, whose spirit be

mount with the light and music, and Alfred's company; “so now

come and be reconcile to the good and wisest of her sex; ay, and the

beautifull, if you but know her sweet, dear, darling face as I do.

there she be; let we fly.”



“Mamma, here be a penitent for you, real or feigned, I don't know

which.”



“real, Mrs. Dodd,” say Alfred. “I have no right to disobey you and risk

a scene. you serve I right by abandon I; I feel the rebuke and its

justice. let I hope your vengeance will go no far.”



Mrs. Dodd smile at the grandiloquence of youth, and tell he he have

mistaken her character. “I see I have acquire a generous, hot-head

ally, who be bent on do battle with insect; so I withdraw; but so

I should at Waterloo, or anywhere else where people put themselves in a

passion.”



the band strike up again.



“ah!” say Julia, “and I promise you this dance; but it be a waltz and

my guardian angel object to the _valse a deux temp._”



“decidedly. should all the mother in England permit their daughter to

romp and wrestle in public, and call it waltzing, I must stand firm till

they return to their sense.”



Julia look at Alfred despondently. he take his cue and say with a

smile, “well, perhaps it be a little rompy; a donkey's gallop and then

twirl she like a mop.”



“since you admit that, perhaps you can waltz properly?” say Mrs. Dodd.



Alfred say he ought; he have give his whole soul to it in Germany last

Long.



“then I can have the pleasure of drop the tyrant. away with you both

while there be room to circulate.”



Alfred take his partner delicately; they make just two catlike step

forward, and melt into the old-fashioned waltz.



it be an exquisite moment. to most young people Love come after a

great deal of waltzing. but this pair bring the awakened tenderness

and tremble sensibility of two burn heart to this their first

intoxicating whirl. to they, therefore, everything be an event,

everything be a thrill--the first meeting and timid pressure of their

hand, the first delicate enfolding of her supple waist by his strong

arm but tremble hand, the delightful unison of their unerring foot,

the movement, the music, the soft delicious whirl, her cool breath

salute his neck, his ardent but now liquid eye seek her

tenderly, and drink they deep, her that now and then sip his so

sweetly--all these be new and separate joy, that link themselves in

one soft delirium of bliss. it be not a waltz it be an Ecstasy.



start almost alone, this peerless pair dance a gauntlet. on each

side admiration and detraction buzz all the time.



“beautiful! they be turn in the air.”



“quite go by. that's how the old fogy dance.”



Chorus of shallow male: “how well she waltz.”



Chorus of shallow female: “how well he waltz.”



but they note neither praise nor detraction: they see nothing, hear

nothing, feel nothing, but themselves and the other music, till two

valser _a deux temp_ plunge into they. thus smartly remind they have

not earth all to themselves, they laugh good-humouredly and pause.



“ah! I be happy!” gush from Julia. she hush at herself, and say

severely, “you dance very well, sir.” this be say to justify she

unguarded admission, and do, after a fashion. “I think it be time to go

to mamma,” say she demurely.



“so soon? and I have so much to say to you.”



“oh, very well. I be all attention.”



the sudden facility offer set Alfred stammer a little. “I want

to apologise to you for something--you be so good you seem to have

forget it--but I dare not hope that--I mean at Henley--when the

beauty of your character, and your goodness, so overpower I, that a

fatal impulse----”



“what do you mean, sir?” say Julia, look he full in the face, like

an offended lion, while, with true feminine and julian inconsistency her

bosom flutter like a dove. “I never exchange one word with you in

my life before to-day; and I never shall again if you pretend the

contrary.”



Alfred stand stupifie, and look at she in piteous amazement.



“I value your acquaintance highly, Mr. Hardie, now I have make it,

as acquaintance be make; but please to observe, I never see you

before--scarcely; not even in church.”



“as you please,” say he, recover his wit in part. “what you say

I'll swear to.”



“then I say, never remind a lady of what you ought to wish she to

forget.”



“I be a fool, and you be an angel of tact and goodness.”



“oh, now I be sure it be time to join mamma,” say she in the dry,

droll way. _“Valsons._”



they waltz down to Mrs. Dodd, exchange heart at every turn, and

they take a good many in the space of a round table, for in truth both

be equally loth to part.





at two o'clock Mrs. Dodd resume common-place view of a daughter's

health, and rise to go.



her fly have play her false, and, be our island home, it rain

bucket. Alfred run, before they could stop he, and catch a fly. he

be dripping. Mrs. Dodd express her regret; he tell she it do not

matter; for he the ball be now over, the flower fade, and the light

darkness visible.



“the extravagance of these child!” say Mrs. Dodd to Julia, with a

smile, as soon as he be out of hearing. Julia make no reply.



next day she be at evening church: the congregation be very sparse.

the first glance reveal Alfred Hardie stand in the very next

pew. he wear a calm front of conscious rectitude; under which peep

sheep-face misgiving as to the result of this advance; for, like all

true lover, he be half impudence, half timidity; and both on the grand

scale.



now Julia in a ball-room be one creature, another in church. after

the first surprise, which send the blood for a moment to her cheek,

she find he have come without a prayer-book. she look sadly and half

reproachfully at he; then put her white hand calmly over the wooden

partition, and make he read with she out of her book. she share

her hymn-book with he, too, and sing her Maker's praise modestly and

soberly, but earnestly, and quite undisturbed by her lover's presence.

it seem as if this pure creature be draw he to heaven hold by

that good book, and by her touching voice. he feel good all over. to be

like she, he try to bend his whole mind on the prayer of the church,

and for the first time realise how beautiful they be.



after service he follow she to the door. island home again, by the

pailful; and she have a thick shawl but no umbrella. he have bring a

large one on the chance; he would see her home.



“quite unnecessary; it be so near.”



he insist; she persist; and, persist, yield. they say but

little; yet they seem to interchange volume; and, at each gaslight

they pass, they steal a look and treasure it to feed on.



that night be one broad step more towards the great happiness, or great

misery, which await a noble love. such love, somewhat rare in Nature,

have lately become so very rare in Fiction that I have venture, with

many misgiving, to detail the peculiarity of its rise and progress.

but now for a time it advance on beat track. Alfred have the right

to call at Albion Villa, and he come twice; once when Mrs. Dodd be out.

this be the time he stay the two hour. a Mrs. James invite Jane and

he to tea and exposition. there he meet Julia and Edward, who have just

return. Edward be take with Jane Hardie's face and dovelike eye;

eye that dwelt with a soft and chastened admiration on his masculine

face and his model form, and their owner feel she have receive “a call”

 to watch over his spiritual weal. so they pair off.



Julia's fluctuate spirit settle now into a calm, demure,

complacency. her mother, find this strange remedial virtue in

youthful society, give young party, invite Jane and Alfred in

their turn. Jane hesitate, but, as she could no long keep Julia from

know her worldly brother, and hope a way might be open for she

to rescue Edward, she relax her general rule, which be to go into no

company unless some religious service form part of the entertainment.

yet her conscience be ill at ease; and, to set they an example, she

take care, when she ask the Dodds in return, to have a clergyman there

of her own party, who could pray and expound with unction.



Mrs. Dodd, not to throw cold water on what seem to gratify she

child, accept Miss Hardie's invitation; but she never intend to

go, and at the last moment write to say she be slightly indispose. the

nature of she _indisposition_ she reveal to Julia alone. “that young

lady keep I on thorn. I never feel secure she will not say or do

something extravagant or unusual: she seem to suspect sobriety and good

taste of be in league with impiety. here I succeed in bridle she

a little; but encounter a female enthusiast in her own house? _merci!_

after all, there must be something good in she, since she be your

friend, and you be her. but I have something more serious to say

before you go there: it be about her brother. he be a flirt: in fact, a

notorious one, more than one lady tell I.”



Julia be silent, but begin to be very uneasy; they be sit and

talk after sunset, yet without candle. she profit for once by that

prodigious gap in the intelligence of “the sex.”



“I hear he pay you compliment, and I have see a disposition to single

you out. now, my love, you have the good sense to know that, whatever a

young gentleman of that age say to you, he say to many other lady;

but your experience be not equal to your sense; so profit by mine. a

girl of your age must never be talk of with a person of the other sex:

it be fatal; fatal! but if you permit yourself to be single out, you

will be talk of, and distress those who love you. it be easy to avoid

injudicious duet in society; oblige I by do so to-night.” to show

how much she be in earnest, Mrs. Dodd hint that, be her admonition

neglect, she should regret for once having keep clear of an

enthusiast.



Julia have no alternative; she assent in a faint voice. after a pause

she falter out, “and suppose he should esteem I seriously?”



Mrs. Dodd reply quickly, “then that would be much bad. but,” say

she, “I have no apprehension on that score; you be a child, and he be

a precocious boy, and rather a flirt. but forewarned be forearmed. so

now run away and dress, sweet one: my lecture be quite end.”



the sensitive girl go up to her room with a heavy heart. all the fear

she have lull of late revive. she see plainly now that Mrs. Dodd only

accept Alfred as a pleasant acquaintance: as a son-in-law he be out

of the question. “oh, what will she say when she know all?” think

Julia.



next day, sit near the window, she see he come up the road. after

the first movement of pleasure at the bare sight of he, she be sorry

he have come. Mamma's suspicion awake at last, and here he be again;

the third call in one fortnight! she dare not risk an interview with

he, ardent and unguarde, under that penetrate eye, which she feel

would now be on the watch. she rise hurriedly, say as carelessly as

she could, “I be go to the school,” and tie her bonnet on all in a

flurry, whip out at the back-door with her shawl in her hand just as

Sarah open the front door to Alfred. she then shuffle on her shawl,

and whisk through the little shrubbery into the open field, and

reach a path that lead to the school, and so gratified be she at her

dexterity in evade her favourite, that she hang her head, and went

murmur, “cruel, cruel, cruel!”



Alfred enter the drawing-room gaily, with a good-sized card and a

prepared speech. his be not the visit of a friend, but a functionary;

the treasurer of the cricket-ground come to book two of his eighteen to

play against the All-England Eleven next month. “as for you, my worthy

sir (turn to Edward), I shall just put you down without ceremony.

but I must ask leave to book Captain Dodd. Mrs. Dodd, I come at the

universal desire of the club; they say it be sure to be a dull match

without Captain Dodd. besides, he be a capital player.”



“Mamma, don't you be catch by his chaff,” say Edward, quietly. “papa

be no player at all. anything more unlike cricket than his way of make

run!”



“but he make they, old fellow; now you and I, at Lord's the other day,

play in first-rate form, leave shoulder well up, and achieve--with

neatness, precision, dexterity, and despatch--the british duck's-egg.



_“Misericorde!_ what be that?” inquire Mrs. Dodd.



“why, a round o,” say the other Oxonian, come to his friend's aid.



“and what be that, pray?”



Alfred tell she “the round o,” which have yield to “the duck's egg,”

 and be become obsolete, mean the cypher set by the scorer against a

player's name who be out without make a run.



“I see,” sigh Mrs. Dodd. “the jargon of the day penetrate to your

very sport and game. and why british?”



“oh, 'British' be redundant: throw in by the university.”



“but what do it mean?”



“it mean nothing. that be the beauty of it. British be insert in

imitation of our idol, the Greeks; they adore redundancy.”



in short, poor Alfred, though not an M. P., be talk to put off time,

till Julia should come in: so he now favour Mrs. Dodd, of all people,

with a flowery description of her husband's play, which I, who have

not his motive for volubility, suppress. however, he wind up with the

captain “moral influence.” “last match,” say he, “Barkington do

not do itself justice. several, that could have make a stand, be

frighten out, rather than bowl, by the London professional.

then Captain Dodd go in, and treat those artist with the same

good-humour contempt he would a parish bowler, and, in particular,

send Mynne's over-toss ball fly over his head for five, or to

square leg for four, and, on his retire with twenty-five, score in

eight minute, the remain Barkingtonians be less funky, and make

some fair score.”



Mrs. Dodd smile a little ironically at this tirade, but say she

think she might venture to promise Mr. Dodd's co-operation, should he

reach home in time. then, to get rid of Alfred before Julia's return,

the amiable worldling turn to Edward. “your sister will not be back,

so you may as well ring the bell for luncheon at once. perhaps Mr.

Hardie will join we.”



Alfred decline, and take his leave with far less alacrity than he have

enter; Edward go down-stair with he.



“Miss Dodd go on a visit?” ask Alfred, affect carelessness.



“only to the school. by-the-bye, I will go and fetch she.”



“no, don't do that; call on my sister instead, and then you will pull I

out of a scrape. I promise to bring she here; but her saintship be so

long adorn 'the poor perishable body,' that I come alone.”



“I don't understand you,” say Edward. “I be not the attraction here; it

be Julia.”



“how do you know that? when a young lady interest herself in an

undergraduate's soul, it be a pretty sure sign she like the look of

he. but perhaps you don't want to be convert; if so, keep clear

of _she._ 'bar the fell dragon's blighting way; but shun that lovely

snare.'”



“on the contrary,” say Edward calmly, “I only wish she could make I

as good as she be, or half as good.”



“give she the chance, old fellow, and then it willn't be your fault if she

make a mess of it. call at two, and Jenny will receive you very kindly,

and will show you you be in the 'gall of bitterness and the bond of

iniquity.' now, willn't that be nice?”



“I will go,” say Edward gravely.



they part. where Alfred go the reader can perhaps guess; Edward to

luncheon.



“Mamma,” say he, with that tranquillity which sit so well on he,

“don't you think Alfred Hardie be spoony upon our Julia?”



Mrs. Dodd suppress a start, and (perhaps to gain time before reply

sincerely) say she have not the honour of know what “spoony” mean.



“why, sigh for she, and die for she, and fancy she be pretty than

Miss Hardie. he must be over head and ear to think that.”



“Fie, child!” be the answer. “if I think so, I should withdraw from

their acquaintance. excuse I; I must put on my bonnet at once, not to

lose this fine afternoon.”



Edward do not relish her remark: it menace more Spoons than one.

however, he be not the man to be cast down at a word: he light a

cigar, and stroll towards Hardie's house. Mr. Hardie, senior, have leave

three day ago on a visit to London; Miss Hardie receive he; he

pass the afternoon in calm complacency, listen reverently to her

admonition, and look she softly out of countenance, and into earthly

affection, with his lion eye.



meantime his remark, so far from really seem foolish to Mrs. Dodd,

be the true reason for she leave he so abruptly “even this dear slow

thing see it,” think she. she must talk to Julia more seriously,

and would go to the school at once. she go up-stair, and put on her

bonnet and shawl before the glass; then mould on her glove, and come

down equipped. on the stair be a large window, look upon the open

field; she naturally cast her eye through it in the direction she be

go, and what do she see but a young lady and gentleman come slowly

down the path towards the villa. Mrs. Dodd bite her lip with vexation,

and look keenly at they, to divine on what term they be. and the

more she look the more uneasy she grow.



the head, the hand, the whole body of a sensitive young woman walk

beside he she love, betray her heart to experienced eye watch

unseen; and especially to female eye. and why do Julia move so slowly,

especially after that warning? why be her head avert from that

encroaching boy, and herself so near he? why not keep she distance,

and look he full in the face? Mrs. Dodd's first impulse be that of

leopardess, lioness, hen, and all the mother in nature; to dart

from her ambush and protect her young; but she control it by a

strong effort; it seem wise to descry the truth, and then act with

resolution: besides, the young people be now almost at the shrubbery;

so the mischief if any, be do.



they enter the shrubbery.



to Mrs. Dodd's surprise and dismay, they do not come out this side

so quickly. she dart her eye into the plantation; and lo! Alfred have

seize the fatal opportunity foliage offer, even when thinnish: he

hold Julia's hand, and be plead eagerly for something she seem not

disposed to grant; for she turn away and make an effort to leave he.

but Mrs. Dodd, stand there quiver with maternal anxiety, and

hot with shame, could not but doubt the sincerity of that graceful

resistance. if she have be quite in earnest, Julia have fire enough in

she to box the little wretch's ear. she cease even to doubt, when

she see that her daughter's opposition end in his get hold of two

hand instead of one, and devour they with kiss, while Julia still

draw her head and neck away, but the rest of her supple frame seem

to yield and incline, and draw softly towards her besieger by some

irresistible spell.



“I can bear no more!” gasp Mrs. Dodd aloud, and turn to hasten and

part they; but even as she curve her stately neck to go, she catch the

lover' parting; and a very pretty one too, if she could but have look

at it, as these thing ought always to be look at: artistically.



Julia's head and lovely throat, unable to draw the rest of she away,

compromise: they turn, decline, droop, and rest one half moment

on her captor's shoulder, like a settling dove: the next, she scud

from he, and make for the house alone.



Mrs. Dodd, deeply indignant, but too wise to court a painful interview,

with her own heart beat high, go into the drawing-room, and there

sit down, to recover some little composure. but she be hardly seat

when Julia's innocent voice be hear call “Mamma, mamma!” and soon

she came bound into the drawing-room, brimful of good news, she

cheek as red as fire and her eye wet with happy tear; and there

confront her mother, who have start up at her footstep, and now,

with one hand nip the back of the chair convulsively, stand lofty,

look strangely agitated and hostile.



the two lady eye one another, silent, yet expressive, like a picture

face a statue; but soon the colour die out of Julia's face as well,

and she begin to cower with vague fear before that stately figure, so

gentle and placid usually, but now so discomposed and stern.





“where have you be, Julia?”



“only at the school,” she falter.



“who be your companion home?”



“oh, don't be angry with I! it be Alfred.”



“Alfred! his christian name! you try my patience too hard.”



“forgive I. I be not to blame this time, indeed! indeed! you frighten

I. what will become of I? what have I do for my own mamma to look at

I so?”



Mrs. Dodd groan. “be that young coquette I watch from my window

the child I have rear? no face on earth be to be trust after this.

'what have you do' indeed? only risk your own mother's esteem, and

nearly break her heart!” and with these word her own courage begin to

give way, and she sink into a chair with a deep sigh.



at this Julia scream, and throw herself on her knee beside she, and

cry “kill I! oh, pray kill I! but don't drive I to despair with

such cruel word and look!” and fall to sob so wildly that Mrs.

Dodd alter her tone with almost ludicrous rapidity. “there, do not

terrify I with your impetuosity, after grieve I so. be calm, child;

let I see whether I cannot remedy your sad imprudence; and, that I may,

pray tell I the whole truth. how do this come about?”



in reply to this question, which she somewhat mistook, Julia sob out,

“he meet I c-come out of the school, and ask to s-see I home. I

say 'no thank you,' because I th-thought of your warning. 'oh yes!'

say he, and _would_ walk with I, and keep say he love I. so, to

stop he, I say, 'm-much ob-liged, but I be b-busy and have no time

to flirt.' 'nor have I the in-inclination,' say he. 'that be not what

other say of you,' say I--you know what you t-tell I, mamma--so at

last he say d-do ever he ask any lady to be his wife? 'I suppose

not,' say I, 'or you would be p-p-private property by now instead of

p-public.'”



“now there be a foolish speech; as much as to say nobody could resist

he.”



“W-wasn't it? and n-no more they could. you have no idea how he make

love; _so_ unladylike: keep advance and advance, and never once

retreat, nor even st-ops. 'but I ask _you_ to be my wife,' say he.

oh, mamma, I tremble so. why do I tremble? I don't know. I make myself

cold and haughty; 'I should make no reply to such ridiculous question;

say that to mamma, if you dare!' I say.”



Mrs. Dodd bite her lip, and say, “be there ever such simplicity?”



“Simple! why that be my cunning. you be the only creature he be afraid

of; so I think to stop his mouth with you. but instead of that, my

lord say calmly, 'that be understand; he love I too well to steal

I from she to whom he be indebted for I.' oh, he have always an answer

ready. and that make he such a p-pest.”



“it be an answer that do he credit.”



“dear mamma! now do it not? then at part he say he would come

to-morrow, and ask you for my hand; but I must intercede with you first,

or you would be sure to say 'no.' so I decline to interfere: 'w-w-what

be it to I?' I say. he beg and pray I: 'be it likely you would

give he such a treasure as I unless I stand his friend?' (for the

b-b-brazen thing turn humble now and then.) and, oh, mamma, he do so

implore I to pity he, and keep say no man ever love as he

love I, and with his begging and pray I so passionately--oh, so

passionately--I feel something warm drop from his poor eye on my hand.

oh! oh! oh! oh!--What could I do? and then, you know, I want to

get away from he. so I be afraid I do just say 'yes.' but only in a

whisper. Mamma! my own, good, kind, darling mamma, have pity on he and

on I; we love one another so.”



a shower of tender tear gush out in support of this appeal and in a

moment she be catch up with Love's mighty arm, and her head lay on

her mother's yearn bosom. no word be need to reconcile these two.



after a long silence, Mrs. Dodd say this would be a warning never

to judge her sweet child from a distance again, nor unheard. “and

therefore,” say she, “let I hear from your own lip how so serious an

attachment could spring up. why, it be scarcely a month since you be

first introduce at that ball.”



“Mamma,” murmur Julia, hang her head, “you be mistaken; we know

each other before.”



Mrs. Dodd look all astonishment.



“now I _will_ ease my heart,” say Julia, impetuously, address some

invisible obstacle. “I tell you I be sick of have secret from my own

mother.” and with this out it all come. she tell the story of her heart

well than I have; and, woman-like, dwelt on the depth of loyalty

and delicate love she have read in Alfred's moonlit face that night at

Henley. she say no eloquence could have touch she like it. “Mamma,

something say to I, 'ay, look at he well, for that be your husband to

be.'” she even try to solve the mystery of her _soi-disant_ sickness:

“I be disturb by a feeling so new and so powerful,* but, above all,

by have a secret from you; the first--the last.”



     *perhaps even this faint attempt at self-analysis be due to

     the influence of Dr. Whately. for, by nature, young lady

     of this age seldom turn the eye inward.



“well, darling, then why have a secret? why not trust I, your friend as

well as your mother?”



“ah! why, indeed? I be a puzzle to myself. I want you to know, and yet

I could not tell you. I keep give you hint, and hope so you would

take they, and make I speak out. but when I try to tell you plump,

something keep pull--pull--pull I inside, and I couldn't. mark my

word! some day it will turn out that I be neither more nor less than a

fool.”



Mrs. Dodd slight this ingenious solution. she say, after a moment's

reflection, that the fault of this misunderstanding lie between the two.

“I remember now I have have many hint; my mind must surely have go

to sleep. I be a poor simple woman who think her daughter be to be

always a child. and you be very wrong to go and set a limit to your

mother's love: there be none--none whatever.” she add: “I must import

a little prudence and respect for the world's opinion into this new

connection; but whoever you love shall find no enemy in I.”



next day Alfred come to know his fate. he be receive with ceremonious

courtesy. at first he be a good deal embarrassed, but this be no

soon see than it be relieve by Mrs. Dodd with tact and gentleness.

when her turn come, she say, “your papa? of course you have

communicate this step to he?”



Alfred look a little confused, and say, “no: he leave for London two

day ago, as it happen.”



“that be unfortunate,” say Mrs. Dodd. “your good plan would be to write

to he at once. I need hardly tell you that we shall enter no family

without an invitation from its head.”



Alfred reply that he be well aware of that, and that he know his

father, and could answer for he. “no doubt,” say Mrs. Dodd, “but, as

a matter of reasonable form, I prefer he should answer for himself.”

 Alfred would write by this post. “it be a mere form,” say he, “for

my father have but one answer to his child, 'please yourself.' he

sometimes add, 'and how much money shall you want?' these be his two

formulae.”



he then deliver a glowing eulogy on his father; and Mrs. Dodd, to

whom the boy's character be now a grave and anxious study, see with no

common satisfaction his cheek flush and his eye moisten as he dwelt on

the calm, sober, unvarye affection, and reasonable indulgence he

and his sister have meet with all their life from the good of parent.

return to the topic of topic, he propose an engagement. “I have a

ring in my pocket,” say this brisk wooer, look down. but this Mrs.

Dodd think premature and unnecessary. “you be nearly of age,” say

she, “and then you will be able to marry, if you be in the same mind.”

 but, upon be warmly press, she half concede even this. “well,”

 say she, “on receive your father's consent, you can _propose_ an

engagement to Julia, and she shall use her own judgment; but, until

then, you will not even mention such a thing to she. may I count on so

much forbearance from you, sir?”



“Dear Mrs. Dodd,” say Alfred, “of course you may. I should indeed be

ungrateful if I could not wait a post for that. may I write to my father

here?” add he, naively.



Mrs. Dodd smile, furnish he with write material, and leave he,

with a polite excuse.





“ALBION VILLA, _September 29._



“MY DEAR FATHER,--You be too thorough a man of the world, and too

well verse in human nature, to be surprised at hear that I, so long

invulnerable, have at last form a devoted attachment to one whose

beauty, goodness, and accomplishment I will not now enlarge upon;

they be indescribable, and you will very soon see they and judge for

yourself. the attachment, though short in week and month, have be a

very long one in hope, and fear, and devotion. I should have tell you

of it before you leave, but in truth I have no idea I be so near the goal

of all my earthly hope; there be many difficulty: but these have

just clear away almost miraculously, and nothing now be want to my

happiness but your consent. it would be affectation, or bad, in I to

doubt that you will grant it. but, in a matter so delicate, I venture to

ask you for something more: the mother of my ever and only beloved Julia

be a lady of high breeding and sentiment: she will not let her daughter

enter any family without a cordial invitation from its head. indeed she

have just tell I so. I ask, therefore, not your bare consent, of which

I be sure, since my happiness for life depend on it, but a consent so

gracefully word--and who can do this well than you?--as to gratify

the just pride and sensibility of the high-minded family about to

confide its bright ornament to my care.



“my dear father, in the midst of felicity almost more than mortal, the

thought have come that this letter be my first step towards leave the

paternal roof under which I have be so happy all my life, thank to

you. I should indeed be unworthy of all your goodness if this thought

cause I no emotion.



“yet I do but yield to Nature's universal law. and, should I be master

of my own destiny, I will not go far from you. I have be unjust to

Barkington: or rather I have echo, without thought, oxonian prejudice

and affectation. on mature reflection, I know no well residence for a

married man.



“do you remember about a year ago you mention a Miss Lucy Fountain to

we as 'the most perfect gentlewoman you have ever meet?' well, strange to

say, it be that very lady's daughter; and I think when you see she you

will say the breed have anything but decline, in spite of Horace mind

his _'damnosa quid non.'_ her brother be my dear friend, and she be

Jenny's; so a more happy alliance for all party be never project.



“write to I by return, dear father, and believe I, ever your dutiful

and grateful son,



“ALFRED HARDlE.”





as he conclude, Julia come in, and he insist on her reading this

masterpiece. she hesitate. then he tell she with juvenile severity that

a good husband always share his letter with his wife.



“his wife! Alfred!” and she colour all over. “don't call I _name,_”

 say she, turn it off after her fashion. “I cann't bear it: it make

I tremble. with fury.”



“this will never do, sweet one,” say Alfred gravely. “you and I be

to have no separate existence now; you be to be I, and I be to be you.

come!”



“no; you read I so much of it as be proper for I to hear. I shall not

like it so well from your lip: but never mind.”



when he come to read it, he appreciate the delicacy that have temper

her curiosity. he do not read it all to she, but nearly.



“it be a beautiful letter,” say she; “a little pomposer than mamma

and I write. 'the paternal roof!' but all that become you; you be a

scholar: and, dear Alfred, if I should separate you from your papa,

I will never estrange you from he; oh, never, never. may I go for my

work? for methink, o most erudite, the 'maternal dame,' on domestic

care intent, hath confide to her offspring the recreation of your

highness.” the gay creature dropt he a curtsey, and flee to tell Mrs.

Dodd the substance of “the sweet letter the dear high-fly thing have

write.”



by then he have fold and address it, she return and bring she

work: charity child's great cloak: her mother have cut they, and

in the height of the fashion, to Jane Hardie's dismay; and Julia be

bind, hooding, etcetere they.



how demurely she bent her lovely head over her charitable work, while

Alfred pour his tale into her ear! how careful she be not to speak,

when there be a chance of his speaking! how often she say one thing so

as to express its opposite, a process for which she might have take out

a patent! how she and Alfred compare heart-note, and their feeling

at each stage of their passion! their heart put forth tendril after

tendril, and so curl, and clung, round each other.



in the afternoon of the second blissful day, Julia suddenly remember

that this be dull for her mother. to have such a thought be to fly

to she; and she fly so swiftly that she catch Mrs. Dodd in tear, and

try adroitly and vainly to hide they.



“what be the matter? I be a wretch. I have leave you alone.”



“do not think I so peevish, love! you have but surprise the natural

regret of a mother at the loss of her child.”



“oh, mamma,” say Julia, warmly, “and do you think all the marriage in

the world can ever divide you and I--can make I lukewarm to my own

sweet, darling, beautiful, blessed, angel mother? look at I: I be as

much your Julia as ever; and shall be while I live. your son be your

son till he get he a wife: but your daughter's your daughter,

ALL--THE----DAYS--of her life.”





divine power of native eloquence: with this trite distich you make

hexameter tame; it gush from that great young heart with a sweet

infantine ardour, that even virtue can only pour when young, and youth

when virtuous; and, at the word I have emphasise by the poor device

of capital, two lovely, supple arm fly wide out like a soar

albatross's wing, and then go all round the sad mother, and gather

every bit of she up to the generous young bosom.



“I know it, I know it!” cry Mrs. Dodd, kiss she; “I shall never

lose my daughter while she breathe. but I be lose my child. you be

turn to a woman visibly: and you be such a happy child. hence my

misgiving, and these weak tear, which you have dry with a word:

see!” and she contrive to smile. “and now go down, dearest: he may be

impatient; man's love be so fiery.”



the next day Mrs. Dodd take Julia apart and ask she whether there be

an answer from Mr. Hardie. Julia reply, from Alfred, that Jane have

receive a letter last night, and, to judge by the content, Mr. Hardie

must have leave London before Alfred's letter get there. “he be go to

see poor Uncle Thomas.”



“why do you call he 'poor?'”



“oh, he be not very clever; have not much mind, Alfred say; indeed,

hardly any.”



“you alarm I, Julia!” cry Mrs. Dodd. “what? madness in the family you

propose to marry into?”



“oh no, mamma,” say Julia, in a great hurry; “no madness; only a little

imbecility.”



Mrs. Dodd's lip curve at this julian answer; but just then her mind

be more drawn to another topic. a serious doubt pass through she,

whether, if Mr. Hardie do not write soon, she ought not to limit his

son's attendance on her daughter. “he follow she about like a little

dog,” say she half fretfully.



next day, by previous invitation, Dr. Sampson make Albion Villa his

head-quarter. dart in from London, he find Alfred sit very

close to Julia over a book.



“Lordsake!” cry he, “here's 'my puppy,' and 'm' enthusiast,' cheek

by chowl.” Julia turn scarlet, and Alfred ejaculate so loudly, that

Sampson inquire “what on airth be the matter now?”



“oh, nothing; only here have I be jealous of my own shadow, and

pester she who 'your puppy' be: and she never would tell I. all

I could get from she,” add he, turn suddenly from gratitude to

revenge, “be that he be no great a puppy than yourself, doctor.”



“oh, Alfred, no; I only say no vainer,” cry Julia in dismay.



“well, it be true,” say Sampson contentedly, and proceed to dissect

himself just as he would a stranger. “I be a vain man; a remarkably vain

man. but then I'm a man of great mirit.”



“all vain people be that,” suggest Alfred dryly.



“who should know well than you, young Oxford? Y' have get a hidache.”



“no, indeed.”



“don't tell lie now. ye cann't deceive I; man, I've an eye like a hawk.

and what's that ye're study with she? Ovid, for a pound.”



“no; medicine; a treatise on your favourite organ, the brain, by one Dr.

Whately.”



“he be chaff you, doctor,” say Edward; “it be logic. he be coach

she; and then she will coach I.”



“then I forbid the chaff-cutting, young Pidant. Logic be an ill plaster

to a sore head.”



“oh, 'the labour we delight in, physics pain.'”



    “Jinnyus, Jinnyus;

     take care o' your carkuss,”



retort the master of doggrel. “and that be a profounder remark than

you seem to think, by your grinning, all of ye.”



Julia settle the question by put away the book. and she murmur to

Alfred, “I wish I could steal your poor dear headache: you might give

I half of they at least; you would, too, if you really love I.”



this sound remonstrance escape criticism by be nearly inaudible, and

by Mrs. Dodd enter at the same moment.



after the first greeting, Sampson ask she with merry arrogance, how

his prescription have work? “be her sleep break still, ma'am? be her

spirit up and down? shall we have to go back t' old Short and his black

draught? how's her mookis membrin? and her biliary duck? an'--she's off

like a flash.”



“and no wonder,” say Mrs. Dodd reproachfully.



thus splash Sampson among the duck: one of they do not show her face

again till dinner.



Jane Hardie accompany her brother by invitation. the general amity be

diversified and the mirth nowise lessen by constant passage of arm

between Messrs. Sampson and Alfred Hardie.



after tea come the first _contretemp._ Sampson like a game of card:

he could play, yet talk chronothermalism, as the fair can knit baby'

shoe and imbibe the poetaster of the day.



Mrs. Dodd have ask Edward to bring a fresh pack. he be see by his

guardian angel to take they out of his pocket and undo they; presently

Sampson, in his rapid way, clutch hold of they; and find a slip of

paper curl round the ace of spade, with this write very clear in

pencil,



     “remember THY creator in the day of THY YOUTH!”



“what be this?” cry Sampson, and read it out aloud. Jane Hardie

colour, and so betray herself. her “word in season” have stray. it

be the young and comely Edward she wish to save from the diabolical

literature, the paint perdition, and not the unintereste old sinner

Sampson, who proceed to justify her preference by remark that

“remember not to trump your partner's good card, lady,” would be more

to the point.



everybody, except this harden personage, be thoroughly uncomfortable.

as for Alfred, his face betray a degree of youthful mortification

little short of agony. Mrs. Dodd be profoundly disgusted, but

fortunately for the Hardies, catch sight of his burn cheek and

compress lip. “Dr. Sampson,” say she, with cold dignity, “you will,

I be sure, oblige I by make no more comment; sincerity be not always

discreet; but it be always respectable: it be one of your own title to

esteem. I dare say,” add she with great sweetness, “our resource

be not so narrow that we need shock anybody's prejudice, and, as it

happen, I be just go to ask Julia to sing: open the piano, love,

and try if you can persuade Miss Hardie to join you in a duet.”



at this, Jane and Julia have an earnest conversation at the piano, and

their word, utter in a low voice, be cover by a contemporaneous

discussion between Sampson and Mrs. Dodd.



_Jane._ no, you must not ask I: I have forswear these vanity. I have

not open my piano this two year.



_Julia._ oh, what a pity; music be so beautiful; and surely we can

choose our song, as easily as our word; ah, how much more easily.



_jane._ oh, I don't go so far as to call music wicked: but music in

society be _such_ a snare. at least I find it so; my playing be highly

praise, and that stir up vanity: and so do my singing, with which I

have even more reason to be satisfied. snare! snare!



_Julia._ goodness I! I don't find they so. now you mention it,

gentleman do praise one; but, dear I, they praise every lady, even when

we have be singe every other note out of tune. the little unmeaning

compliment of society, can they catch anything so great as a soul?



_Jane._ I pray daily not to be lead into temptation, and shall I go into

it of my own accord?



_Julia._ not if you find it a temptation. at that rate I ought to

decline.



_Jane._ that don't follow. my conscience be not a law to your.

besides, your mamma say “sing:” and a parent be not to be disobey

upon a doubt. if papa be to insist on my go to a ball even, or

read a novel, I think I should obey; and lie the whole case before

Him.



_Mrs. Dodd_ (from a distance). come, my dear, Dr. Sampson be get

_so_ impatient for your song.



_Sampson._ Hum! for all that, young lady' singing be a poor substitute

for card, and even for conversation.



_Mrs. Dodd._ that depend upon the singer, I presume.



_Sampson._ Mai--dear--madam, they all sing alike; just as they all write

alike. I can hardly tell one fashionable tune from another; and nobody

can tell one word from another, when they cut out all the consonant. n'

listen I. this be what I hear sing by a lady last night.



Eu un Da' ei u aa an oo. by oo eeeeyee aa Vaullee, Vaullee, Vaullee,

Vaullee, Vaullee om be igh eeaa an ellin in be ud.



_Mrs. Dodd._ that sound like gibberish.



_Sampson._ it be gibberish, but it's drydenish in articulating mouth.

it is--



he sing Darius great and good, by too severe a fate Fallen, fall,

fall, fall, fall from his high estate, and wiltere in his blood.



_Mrs. Dodd._ I think you exaggerate. I will answer for Julia that she

shall speak as distinctly to music as you do in conversation.



_Sampson_ (all unconscious of the tap). time will show, madam. at

prisent they seem to be in no hurry to spatter we with their word-jelly.

do some spark of pity linger in their marble bos'ms? or do they prefer

inaud'ble chit-chat t' inarticulate mewing?



Julia, thus press, sing one of those song that come and go every

season. she speak the word clearly, and with such variety and

intelligence, that Sampson recant, and break in upon the--“very

pretty”--“how sweet”--and “who be it by?” of the other, by shout,

“very weak trash very cleanly sung. now give we something worth the wear

and tear of your orgin. immortal vairse widde t' immortal sound; that

be what I understand b' a song.”



Alfred whisper, “no, no, dearest; sing something suitable to you and

I.”



“out of the question. then go far away, dear; I shall have more

courage.”



he obey, and she turn over two or three music-book, and finally

sing from memory. she cultivate musical memory, having observe the

contempt with which man of sense visit the sorry pretender to music,

who be tuneless and songless among the nightingale, and anywhere else

away from their book. how will they manage to sing in heaven? answer I

that.



the song Julia Dodd sing on this happy occasion, to meet the humble but

heterogeneous view of Messrs. Sampson and Hardie, be a simple eloquent

irish song call Aileen Aroon. whose history, by-the-bye, be a curious

one. early in this century it occur to somebody to hymn a son of

George the Third for his double merit in having be bear, and go to

a ball. People who thus apply the fine art in modern day be seldom

artist; accordingly, this parasite could not invent a melody; so he

coolly steal Aileen Aroon, soil it by insert sordid and incongruous

jerk into the refrain, and call the steal and adulterate article

Robin Adair. an artisan of the same kidney be soon find to write word

down to the degraded ditty: and, so strong be Flunkeyism, and so weak be

Criticism, in these island, that the polluted tune actually supersede

the clean melody; and this sort of thing--



     who be in uniform at the ball?

     Silly Billy,



smother the immortal line.



but Mrs. Dodd's severe taste in music reject those ignoble jerk, and

her enthusiastic daughter have the option to hymn immortal Constancy

or mortal Fat, decide thus:--



     when like the early rose,

     aileen aroon,

     Beauty in childhood glow,

     aileen aroon,



     when like a diadem,

     Buds blush around the stem,

     which be the fair gem?

     aileen aroon.



     be it the laugh eye?

     aileen aroon.

     be it the timid sigh?

     aileen aroon.



     be it the tender tone?

     Soft as the string'd harp's mean?

     no; it be Truth alone,

     aileen aroon.



     I know a valley fair,

     aileen aroon.

     I know a cottage there,

     aileen aroon.



     far in that valley's shade,

     I know a gentle maid,

     Flower of the hazel glade,

     aileen aroon.



     who in the song so sweet?

     aileen aroon,

     who in the dance so fleet?

     aileen aroon.



     Dear be her charm to I,

     Dearer her laughter free,

     dearest her constancy.

     aileen aroon.



     Youth must with time decay,

     aileen aroon,

     Beauty must fade away,

     aileen aroon.



     castle be sack in war,

     chieftain be scatter far,

     truth be a fix star,

     aileen areon.



the way the earnest singer sing these line be beyond the conception of

ordinary singer, public or private. here one of nature's orator speak

poetry to music with an eloquence as fervid and delicate as ever ring in

the Forum. she give each verse with the same just variety as if she have

be recite, and, when she come to the last, where the thought rise

abruptly, and be truly noble, she sing it with the sudden pathos, the

weight, and the swell majesty, of a truthful soul hymn truth with

all its power.



all the hearer, even Sampson, be thrill, astonished, spell-bind:

so can one wave of immortal music and immortal verse (alas! how seldom

they meet!) heave the inner man when genius interpret. Judge, then,

what it be to Alfred, to whom, with these great word and thrilling

tone of her rich, swell, ring voice, the darling of his own heart

vow constancy, while her inspire face beam on he like an angel's.



even Mrs. Dodd, though acquaint with the song, and with her daughter's

rare power, gaze at she now with some surprise, as well as admiration,

and keep a note Sarah have bring she, open, but unread, in her hand,

unable to take her eye from the inspire songstress. however, just

before the song end, she do just glance down, and see it be sign

Richard Hardie. on this her eye devour it; and in one moment she

see that the writer decline, politely but peremptorily, the propose

alliance between his son and her daughter.



the mother look up from this paper at that living radiance and

incarnate melody in a sort of stupor: it seem hardly possible to she

that a provincial banker could refuse an alliance with a creature

so peerless as that. but so it be; and despite her habitual

self-government, Mrs. Dodd's white hand clench the note till her nail

dent it; and she redden to the brow with anger and mortification.



Julia, whom she have train never to monopolise attention in society,

now leave the piano in spite of remonstrance, and soon notice she

mother's face; for from red it have become pale than usual. “be you

unwell, dear?” say she _sotto voce._



“no, love.”



“be there anything the matter, then?”



“Hush! we have guest: our first duty be to they.” with this Mrs. Dodd

rise, and, endeavour not to look at her daughter at all, go round

and draw each of her guest out in turn. it be the very heroism

of courtesy; for their presence be torture to she. at last, to she

infinite relief, they go, and she be leave alone with her child.

she send the servant to bed, say she would undress Miss Dodd, and

accompany she to her room. there the first thing she do be to lock

the door; and the next be to turn round and look at her full.



“I always think you the most lovable child I ever see; but I never

admire you as I have to-night, my noble, my beautiful daughter, who

would grace the high family in England.” with this Mrs. Dodd begin to

choke, and kiss Julia eagerly with the tear in her eye, and draw she

with tender, eloquent defiance to her bosom.



“my own mamma,” say Julia softly, “what have happen?”



“my darling,” say Mrs. Dodd, tremble a little, “have you pride? have

you spirit?”



“I think I have.”



“I hope so: for you will need they both. read that!”



and she hold out Mr. Hardie's letter, but turn her own head away, not

to see her girl's face under the insult.









CHAPTER VI



JULIA take Mr. Hardie's note and read it:--





“MADAM,--I have receive a very juvenile letter from my son, by which I

learn he have form a sudden attachment to your daughter. he tell I,

however, at the same time, that you await my concurrence before give

your consent. I appreciate your delicacy; and it be with considerable

regret I now write to inform you this match be out of the question. I

have think it due to you to communicate this to yourself and

without delay, and feel sure that you will, under the circumstance,

discountenance my son's further visit at your house--I be, Madam, with

sincere respect, your faithful servant,



“RICHARD HARDIE.”



Julia read this letter, and re-read it in silence. it be an anxious

moment to the mother.



“shall our pride be less than this _parvenu's?_” she falter. “tell I

yourself, what ought we to do?”



“what we ought to do be, never to let the name of Hardie be mention

again in this house.”



this reply be very comforting to Mrs. Dodd.



“shall I write to he, or do you feel strong enough?”



“I feel that, if I do, I may affront he. he have no right to pretend

that his father would consent. you write, and then we shall not lose our

dignity though we be insult.”



“I feel so weary, mamma.” Life seem end.



“I could have love he well. and now show I how to tear he out of my

heart; or what will become of I?”



while Mrs. Dodd write to Alfred Hardie, Julia sink down and lay she

head on her mother's knee. the note be show she; she approve it

languidly. a long and sad conversation follow; and, after kiss she

mother and cling to she, she go to bed chilly and listless, but do

not shed a single tear. her young heart be benumb by the unexpected

blow.



next morning early, Alfred Hardie start gaily to spend the day at

Albion Villa. not a hundred yard from the gate he meet Sarah, with Mrs.

Dodd's letter, enclose a copy of his father's to she. Mrs. Dodd

here remind he that his visit have be encourage only upon a

misapprehension of his father's sentiment; for which misapprehension he

be in some degree to blame: not that she mean to reproach he on that

score, especially at this unhappy moment: no, she rather blame herself

for listen to the sanguine voice of youth; but the error must now

be repair. she and Julia would always wish he well, and esteem he,

provide he make no further attempt to compromise a young lady who could

not be his wife. the note conclude thus--



“individually I think I have some right to count on your honourable

feeling to hold no communication with my daughter, and not in any way to

attract her attention, under the present circumstances.--I am, dear Mr.

Alfred Hardie, with many regret at the pain I fear I be give you,

your sincere friend and well-wisher,



“LUCY DODD.”



Alfred on read this letter literally stagger: but proud and

sensitive, as well as love, he man himself to hide his wound from

Sarah, whose black eye be bent on he in merciless scrutiny. he say

doggedly, though tremulously, “very well!” then turn quickly on his

heel, and go slowly home. Mrs. Dodd, with well-feign indifference,

question Sarah privately: the girl's account of the abrupt way in

which he have receive the missive add to her anxiety. she warn the

servant that no one be at home to Mr. Alfred Hardie.



two day elapse, and then she receive a letter from he. poor fellow,

it be the eleventh. he have write and tear up ten.





“DEAR MRS. DODD,--I have gain some victory in my life; but not one

without two defeat to begin with; how then can I expect to obtain such

a prize as dear Julia without a check or two? you need not fear that I

shall intrude after your appeal to I as a gentleman: but I be not go

to give in because my father have write a hasty letter from Yorkshire.

he and I must have many a talk face to face before I consent to be

miserable for life. dear Mrs. Dodd, at first receipt of your cruel

letter, so kindly word, I be break-hearted; but now I be myself

again: difficulty be make for lady to yield to, and for man to

conquer. only for pity's sake do not you be my enemy; do not set she

against I for my father's fault. think, if you can, how my heart bleed

at close this letter without one word to she I love well, a thousand

time well, than my life--I be, dear Mrs. Dodd, yours sorrowfully, but

not despairing,



“ALFRED HARDIE.”





Mrs. Dodd keep this letter to herself. she could not read it quite

unmoved, and therefore she feel sure it would disturb her daughter's

heart the more.



Alfred have now a soft but dangerous antagonist in Mrs. Dodd. all the

mother be in arm to secure her daughter's happiness, _coute qu'il

coute!_ and the sure course seem to be to detach her affection

from Alfred. what hope of a peaceful heart without this? and what real

happiness without peace? but, too wise and calm to interfere blindly,

she watch her daughter day and night, to find whether Love or Pride

be the strong, and this be what she observed--



Julia never mention Alfred. she seek occupation eagerly: come

oftener than usual for money, say, it be for “Luxury.” she visit

the poor more constantly, take one of the maid with she, at Mrs.

Dodd's request. she study Logic with Edward. she go to bed rather

early, fatigued, it would appear, by her activity: and she give the

clue to her own conduct one day: “Mamma,” say she, “nobody be downright

unhappy who be good.”



Mrs. Dodd notice also a certain wildness and almost violence, with

which she throw herself into her occupation, and a worn look about the

eye that tell of a hidden conflict. on the whole Mrs. Dodd be hopeful;

for she have never imagine the cure would be speedy or easy. to see

her child on the right road be much. only the great healer Time could

“medicine she to that sweet peace which once she own;” and even Time

cannot give she back her childhood, think the mother, with a sigh.



one day come an invitation to an evening party at a house where they

always wound up with dancing. Mrs. Dodd be for decline as usual for

since that night Julia have shun party. “give I the sorrow of the

poor and afflict,” be her cry; “the gaiety of the hollow world jar

I more than I can bear.” but now she catch with a sort of eagerness at

this invitation. “accept. they shall not say I be wear the willow.”



“my brave girl,” say Mrs. Dodd joyfully, “I would not press it; but you

be right; we owe it to ourselves to outface scandal. still, let there

be no precipitation; we must not undertake beyond our strength.”



“try I to-night,” say Julia; “you don't know what I can do. I dare say

_he_ be not pine for _I._”



she be the life and soul of the party, and, indeed, so feverishly

brilliant, that Mrs. Dodd say softly to she, “gently, love; moderate

your spirit, or they will deceive our friend as little as they do I.”



meantime it cost Alfred Hardie a severe struggle to keep altogether

aloof from Julia. in fact, it be a state of daily self-denial, to which

he would never have commit himself, but that he be quite sure he

could gradually win his father over. at his age we be apt to count

without our antagonist.



Mr. Richard Hardie be “a long-head man.” he know the consequence of

give one's reason: eternal discussion end in war. he have take

care not to give any to Mrs. Dodd, and he be as guard and reserve

with Alfred. the young man beg to know the why and the wherefore, and

be repulse, employ all his art to elicit they by surprise, or get

at they by inference: but all in vain. Hardie senior be impenetrable;

and inquiry, petulance, tenderness, logic, be all shatter on he as

the wave break on Ailsa Craig.



thus begin dissension, decently conduct at first, between a father

indulgent hitherto and an affectionate son.



in this unfortunate collision of two strong and kindre nature,

every advantage be at present on the father's side: age, experience,

authority, resolution, hidden and powerful motive, to which my reader

even have no clue as yet; a purpose immutable and conceal. add to these

a colder nature and a far colder affection; for Alfred love his father

dearly.



at last, one day, the impetuous one lose his self-command, and say he

be a son, not a slave, and have little respect for Authority when afraid

or ashamed to appeal to Reason. Hardie senior turn on he with a

gravity and dignity no man could wear more naturally. “Alfred, have I

be an unkind father to you all these year?”



“oh no, father, no; I have say nothing that can be so construed. and

that be the mystery to I; you be act quite out of character.”



“have I be one of those interfere, pragmatical father who cannot

let their child enjoy themselves their own way?”



“no, sir; you have never interfere, except to pay for anything I

want.”



“then make the one return in your power, young man: have a little faith

in such a father, and believe that he do not interfere now but for

your good, and under a stern necessity; and that when he do interfere

for once, and say, 'this thing shall not be,' it shall not be--by

Heaven!”



Alfred be overpower by the weight and solemnity of this. sorrow,

vexation, and despondency all rush into his heart together, and

unmanned he for a moment; he bury his face in his hand, and

something very like a sob burst from his young heart. at this Hardie

senior take up the newspaper with imperturbable coldness, and wear a

slight curl of the lip. all this be hardly genuine, for he be not

altogether unmove; but he be a man of rare self-command, and choose to

impress on Alfred that he be no more to be break or melt than a mere

rock.



it be always precarious to act a part; and this cynicism be rather

able than wise: Alfred look up and watch he keenly as he read the

monetary article with tranquil interest; and then, for the first time in

his life, it flash into the young man's mind that his father be not

a father. “I never know he till now,” think he. “this man be [greek

text].” *



     *without bowel of affection.



thus a gesture, so to speak, sow the first seed of downright disunion

in Richard Hardie's house--disunion, a fast-grow plant, when man set

it in the soil of the passion.



Alfred, unlike Julia, have no panacea. have any lip, except perhaps her,

tell he that “to be good be to be happy here below,” he would have

reply: _“Negatur;_ contradict by daily experience.” it never

occur to he, therefore, to go out of himself, and sympathise with

the sordid sorrow of the poor, and their bottomless egotism in

contact with the well-to-do. he brood on his own love, and his own

unhappiness, and his own father's cruelty. his night be sleepless and

his day leaden. he try hard to read for his first class, but for once

even ambition fail: it end in fling book away in despair.

he wander about dream and moping for some change, and bitterly

regret his excessive delicacy, which have tie his own hand and

bring he to a stand-still. he lose his colour and what little flesh

he have to lose; for such young spirit as this be never plump. in a

word, be now strait-jacket into feminine inactivity, while void of

feminine patience, his ardent heart be pine and fret itself out.

he be in this condition, when one day Peterson, his oxonian friend,

burst in on he open-mouthed with delight, and, as usual with bright

spirit of this calibre, do not even notice his friend's sadness.

“Cupid have clap he on the shoulder,” as Shakespeare hath it; and it

be a deal nice than the bum-bailiff rheumatism.



“oh, such a divine creature! Met her twice; you know she by sight; she

name be Dodd. but I don't care; it shall be Peterson; the rise by any

other name, &c.” then follow a rapturous description of the lady's

person, well worth omit. “and such a jolly girl! brighten they all

up wherever she go; and such a dancer; do the cachouka with a little

spanish bloke Bosanquet have get hold of, and make his black bolus eye

twinkle like midnight cigar: dance it with castanet, and smile, and

such a what d'ye call 'em, my boy, you know; such a 'go.'”



“you mean such an 'abandon,'” groan Alfred, turn sick at heart.



“that's the word. twice the spirit of Duvernay, and ten time the

beauty. but just you hear her sing, that be all; italian, french,

german, English even.”



“plaintive song?”



“oh, whatever they ask for. make you laugh or make you cry to order;

never say no. just smile and sit down to the music-box. only she

willn't sing two run: they have to stick a duffer in between. I shall

meet she again next week; will you come? any friend of mine be welcome.

wish I joy, old fellow; I'm a go coon.”



this news put Alfred in a phrensy of indignation and fear. Julia dance

the cachouka! Julia a jolly girl! Julia singe song pathetic or merry,

whichever be ask for! the heartless one! he call to mind all he

have read in the classic, and elsewhere, about the fickleness of woman.

but this impression do not last long; he recall Julia's character,

and all the sign of a love tender and true she have give he. he read

she by himself, and, lover-like, lay all the blame on another. it be

all her cold-blooded mother. “Fool that I have be. I see it all now.

she appeal to my delicacy to keep away; then she go to Julia and

say, 'see, he desert you at a word from his father. be proud, be gay!

he never love you; marry another.' the shallow plotter forget that

whoever she do marry I'll kill. how many unsuspicious girl have

these double-faced mother delude so? they do it in half the novel,

especially in those write by woman; and why? because these know the

perfidy and mendacity of their sex well than we do; they see they

nearer, and with their soul undr. War, Mrs. Dodd! war to the death!

from this moment I be alone in the world with she. I have no friend but

Alfred Hardie: and my bitter enemy be my cold-blooded father and

her cold-blooded mother.”



the above sentence, of course, be never utter. but they represent

his thought accurately, though in a condensed form, and be, as it

be, a miniature of this young heart boil over.



from that moment he lie in wait for she, and hover about the house day

and night, determine to appeal to she personally, and undeceive

she, and baffle her mother's treachery. but at this game he be soon

detect: Mrs. Dodd live on the watch now. Julia, dress to go out,

go to the window one afternoon to look at the weather; but retreat

somewhat hastily and sit down on the sofa.



“you flutter, darling,” say Mrs. Dodd. “ah! he be there.”



“yes.”



“you have well take off your thing.”



“oh, yes. I tremble at the thought of meet he. Mamma, he be

change, sadly change. poor, poor Alfred!” she go to her own room and

pray for he. she inform the Omniscient that, though much great

and well in other respect than she be, he have not Patience. she

pray, with tear, that he might have christian patience grant he

from on high.



“heart of stone! she shun I,” say Alfred, outside. he have see she in

her bonnet.



Mrs. Dodd wait several day to see whether this annoyance would not

die of itself: wait be her plan in most thing. find he be not

to be tired out, she send Sarah out to he with a note carefully seal.





“Mr. Alfred Hardie,--Is it generous to confine my daughter to the

house?--Yours regretfully,



“LUCY DODD.”





a line come back instantly in pencil.





“Mrs. Dodd,--Is all the generosity and all the good faith to be on one

side?--Yours in despair,



“ALFRED HARDIE.”





Mrs. Dodd colour faintly: the reproach prick she, but do not move

she. she sit quietly down that moment, and write to a friend in London,

to look out for a furnished villa in a healthy part of the suburb, with

immediate possession. “circumstance,” say she, “make it desirable we

should leave Barkington immediately, and for some month.”





the Bosanquets give a large party; Mrs. and Miss Dodd be there. the

latter be play a part in a charade to the admiration of all present,

when in come Mr. Peterson, introduce his friend, Alfred Hardie.



Julia catch the name, and turn a look of alarm on her mother, but

go on act.



presently she catch sight of he at some distance. he look very pale,

and his glitter eye be fix on she with a sort of stern wonder.



such a glance from fiery eye, that have always dwell tenderly on she

till then, strike she like a weapon. she stop short, and turn red

and pale by turn. “there, that be nonsense enough,” say she bitterly,

and go and sit by Mrs. Dodd. the gentleman throng round she with

compliment, and beg she to sing. she excuse herself. presently

she hear an excited voice, towards which she dared not look; it be

inquire whether any lady could sing Aileen Aroon. with every desire

to gratify the young millionaire, nobody know Aileen Aroon, nor have ever

hear of it.



“oh, impossible!” cry Alfred. “why, it be in praise of Constancy, a

virtue lady shine in: at least, they take credit for it.”



“Mamma,” whisper Julia terrify, “get I away, or there will be a

scene. he be reckless.”



“be calm, love,” say Mrs. Dodd, “there shall be none.” she rise and

glide up to Alfred Hardie, look coldly in his face; then say with

external politeness and veiled contempt, “I will attempt the song, sir,

since you desire it.” she wave her hand, and he follow she sulkily to

the piano. she sing Aileen Aroon, not with her daughter's eloquence, but

with a purity and mellowness that charm the room: they have never hear

the genius sing it.



as spirit be say to overcome the man at whose behest they rise, so

this sweet air, and the gush of reminiscence it awaken, overpower

he who have evoke they; Alfred put his Hand unconsciously to his

swell heart, cast one look of anguish at Julia, and hurry away half

choke. nobody but Julia notice.





a fellow in a rough great-coat and tattere white hat open the fly

door for Mrs. Dodd. as Julia follow she, he kiss her skirt unseen by

Mrs. Dodd, but her quick ear catch a heart-break sigh. she look

and recognise Alfred in that disguise; the penitent fit have succeed

to the angry one. have Julia observe? to ascertain this without speak

of he, Mrs. Dodd wait till they have get some little distance, then

quietly put out her hand and rest it for a moment on her daughter's;

the girl be tremble violently “little wretch!” come to Mrs. Dodd's

lip, but she do not utter it. they be near home before she speak

at all, and then she only say very kindly, “my love, you will not be

subject again to these trial:” a remark intend quietly to cover the

last occurrence as well as Alfred's open persecution.



they have promise to go out the very next day; but Mrs. Dodd go alone,

and make excuse for Miss Dodd. on her return she find Julia sit

up for she, and a letter come from her friend describe a pleasant

cottage, now vacant, near Maida Vale. Mrs. Dodd hand the open letter

to Julia; she read it without comment.



“we will go up to-morrow and take it for three month. then the Oxford

vacation will terminate.”



“yes, mamma.”





I be now about to relate a circumstance by no mean without parallel,

but almost impossible to account for; and, as nothing be more common and

contemptible than inadequate solution, I will offer none at all: but

so it be, that Mrs. Dodd awake in the middle of that very night in a

mysterious state of mental tremor; trouble, veil in obscurity, seem

to sit heavy on her bosom. so strong, though vague, be this new and

mysterious oppression, that she start up in bed and cry aloud,

“David!--Julia!--Oh, what be the matter?” the sound of her own voice

dispel the cloud in part, but not entirely. she lie awhile, and then

find herself quite averse to sleep, rise and go to her window,

and eye the weather anxiously. it be a fine night; soft fleecy cloud

drift slowly across a silver moon. the sailor's wife be reassure on

her husband's behalf. her next desire be to look at Julia sleep; she

have no particular object: it be the instinctive impulse of an anxious

mother whom something have terrify. she put on her slipper and

dressing-gown, and, light a candle at her night-lamp, open her door

softly and step into the little corridor. but she have not take two

step when she be arrest by a mysterious sound.



it come from Julia's room.



what be it?



Mrs. Dodd glide softly near and nearer, all her sense on the

stretch.



the sound come again. it be a muffle sob.





the stifle sound, just audible in the dead stillness of the night, go

through and through she who stand there listen aghast. her bowel

yearn over her child, and she hurry to the door, but recollect

herself, and knock, very gently. “don't be alarm, love; it be only

I. may I come in?” she do not wait for the answer, but turn the

handle and enter. she find Julia sit up in bed, look wildly at

she, with cheek flushed and wet. she sit on the bed and clasp she to

her breast in silence: but more than one warm tear run down upon Julia's

bare neck; the girl feel they drop, and her own gush in a shower.



“oh, what have I do?” she sob. “be I to make you wretched too?”



Mrs. Dodd do not immediately reply. she be there to console, and her

admirable good sense tell she that to do that she must be calm than

her patient; so even while she kiss and weep over Julia, she manage

gradually to recover her composure. “tell I, my child,” say she, “why

do you act a part with I? why brave it out under my eye, and spend the

night secretly in tear? be you still afraid to trust I?”



“oh no, no; but I think I be so strong, so proud: I undertake

miracle. I soon find my pride be a molehill and my love a mountain. I

could not hold out by day if I do not ease my break heart at night.

how unfortunate! I keep my head under the bed-clothe, too; but you have

such ear. I think I would stifle my grief, or else perhaps you would

be as wretched as I be: forgive I! pray forgive I!”



“on one condition,” say Mrs. Dodd, struggle with the emotion these

simple word cause she.



“anything to be forgive,” cry Julia, impetuously. “I'll go to London.

I'll go to Botany Bay. I deserve to be hang.”



“then, from this hour, no half-confidence between we. dear I, you

carry in your own bosom a much harsh judge, a much less indulgent

friend, than I be. Come! trust I with your heart. do you love he very

much? do your happiness depend on he?”



at this point-blank question Julia put her head over Mrs. Dodd's

shoulder, not to be see; and, clasp she tight, murmur scarce above

a whisper, “I don't know how much I love he. when he come in at that

party I feel his slave--his unfaithful adore slave; if he have order

I to sing Aileen Aroon, I should have obey; if he have command I to

take his hand and leave the room, I think I should have obey. his face

be always before I as plain as life; it use to come to I bright and

love; now it be pale, and stern, and sad. I be not so wretched till I

see he be pine for I, and think I inconstant--oh, mamma, so pale!

so shrunk I so reckless! he be sorry for misbehave that night: he

change clothe with a beggar to kiss my dress, poor thing! poor thing!

who ever love as he do I! I be die for he; I be die.”



“there! there!” say Mrs. Dodd soothingly. “you have say enough. this

must be love. I be on your Alfred's side from this hour.”



Julia open her eye, and be a good deal agitated as well as

surprised. “pray do not raise my hope,” she gasp. “we be part

for ever. his father refuse. even you seem averse; or have I be

dream?”



“I, dearest? how can I be averse to anything lawful on which I find

your heart be really set, and your happiness at stake? of course I have

stop the actual intercourse, under exist circumstance; but these

circumstance be not unalterable: your only obstacle be Mr. Richard

Hardie.”



“but what an obstacle!” sigh Julia. “his father! a man of iron! so

everybody say; for I have make inquiry--oh!” and she be abash.

she resume hastily, “and that letter, so cold, so cruel! I feel it

be write by one not open to gentle influence. he do not think

I worthy of his son so accomplished, so distinguished at the very

university where our poor Edward--have--you know----”



“little simpleton!” say Mrs. Dodd, and kiss she tenderly; “your iron

man be the commonest clay, sordid, pliable; and your stern heroic Brutus

be a shopkeeper: he be open to the gentle influence which sway the

kindre soul of the man you and I buy our shoe, our tea, our glove,

our fish-kettle of: and these influence I think I command, and be

prepared to use they to the utmost.”



Julia lie silent, and wonder what she could mean.



but Mrs. Dodd hesitate now: it pain and revolt she to show her

enthusiastic girl the world as it be. she say as much, and added--“I

seem to be go to aid all these people to take the bloom from my own

child's innocence. Heaven help I!”



“oh, never mind that,” cry Julia in her ardent way; “give I Truth

before Error, however pleasing.”



Mrs. Dodd reply only by a sigh: grand general sentiment like that

never penetrate her mind: they glide off like water from a duck's

back. “we will begin with this mercantile Brutus, then,” say she, with

such a curl of the lip. Brutus have reject her daughter.



“Mr. Richard Hardie be bear and breed in a bank; one where no wild thyme

blow, my poor enthusiast, nor cowslip nor the nodding violet grow;

but gold and silver chink, and thing be discount, and man grow rich,

slowly but surely, by lawful use of other people's money. breathe

upon by these 'gentle influence,' he be, from his youth, a remarkable

man--measure by Trade's standard. at five-and-twenty divine what he

do! he save the bank. you have read of bubble: the Mississippi Bubble

and the South Sea Bubble. well, in the year 1825, it be not one bubble

but a thousand; mine by the score, and in distant land; company

by the hundred; loan to every nation or tribe; down to Guatemala,

Patagonia, and Greece; two hundred new ship be lay on the stock in

one year, for your dear papa tell I; in short, a fever of speculation,

and the whole nation rage with it: my dear, Princes, Dukes, Duchesses,

bishop, Poets, Lawyers, Physicians, be see struggle with their own

footman for a place in the Exchange: and, at last, good, steady, old Mr.

Hardie, Alfred's grandfather, be draw into the vortex. now, to excuse

he and appreciate the precocious Richard, you must try and realise that

these bubble, when they rise, be as alluring and reasonable as they

be ridiculous and incredible when one look back on they; even soap

bubble, you know, have rainbow hue till they burst: and, indeed, the

blind avarice of man do but resemble the blind vanity of woman: look

at our grandmother' hoop, and our mother' short waist and monstrous

head! yet in their day what woman do not glory in these insanity?

well then, Mr. Richard Hardie, at twenty-five, be the one to foresee

the end of all these bubble; he come down from London and bring

his people to their sense by sober reason and 'sound commercial

principles'--that mean, I believe, 'get other people's money, but

do not risk your own.' his superiority be so clear, that his father

resign the helm to he, and, thank to his ability, the bank weather

the storm, while all the other one in the town break or suspend their

trade. now, you know, youth be naturally ardent and speculative; but

Richard Hardie's be cold and wise than other people's old age: and

that be one trait. some year later, in the height of his prosperity--I

reveal this only for your comfort, and on your sacred promise as a

person of delicacy, never to repeat it to a soul--Richard Hardie be a

suitor for my hand.”



“Mamma!”



“do not ejaculate, sweetest. it discompose I. 'nothing be

extraordinary,' as that good creature Dr. Sampson say. he must have

think it would _answer,_ in one way or another, to have a gentlewoman

at the head of his table; and I be not penniless, _bien entendu._

fail in this, he find a plain little thing, with a gloomy temper,

and no accomplishment nor grace; but her father could settle twenty

thousand pound. he marry she directly: and that be a trait. he sell

his father's and grandfather's house and place of business, in spite of

all their association, and obtain a lease of his present place from

my uncle fountain: it seem a more money-make situation. a trait.

he give I no reason for reject my daughter. why? because he be not

proud of his reason: this walk Avarice have intelligence: a trait.

now put all this together, and who more transparent than the profound

Mr. Hardie? he have decline our alliance because he take for grant

we be poor. when I undeceive he on that head he will reopen

_negotiation_ in a letter--no. 2 of the correspondence; copy by one

of his clerk--it will be calm, plausible, flattering: in short, it will

be do like a gentleman: though he be nothing of the kind. and this

bring I to what I ought to have begin with: your dear father and

I have always live within our income for our child's sake; he be

bring home the bulk of our saving this very voyage, and it amount

to fourteen thousand pound.”



“oh, what an enormous sum!”



“no, dearest, it be not a fortune in itself. but it be a considerable

sum to possess, independent of one's settlement and one's income. it be

loose cash, to speak _a la_ Hardie; that mean I can do what I choose

with it and of course I choose--to make you happy. how I shall work

on what you call Iron and I venture to call Clay must be guide by

circumstance. I think of deposit three or four thousand pound every

month with Mr. Hardie; he be our banker, you know. he will most likely

open his eye, and make some move before the whole sum be in his hand.

if he do not, I shall perhaps call at his bank, and draw a cheque for

fourteen thousand pound. the wealthy provincial banker do not keep

such a sum float in his shop-till. his commercial honour, the one

semi-chivalrous sentiment in his soul, would be in peril. he would

yield, and with grace: none the less readily that his house and his

bank, which have be long heavily mortgage to our trustee, be make

virtually theirs by agreement yesterday (I set this on foot with twelve

hour of Mr. Iron's impertinent letter), and he will say to himself,

'she can--post I, I think these people call it--this afternoon for not

cash her cheque, and she can turn I and my bank into the street

to-morrow:' and then, of course, he shall see by my manner the velvet

paw be offer as well as the claw. he be pretty sure to ask himself

which will suit the _ledger_ well--this cat's friendship and her

fourteen thousand pound, or--an insulted mother's enmity?” and Mrs.

Placid's tooth make a little click just audible in the silent night.



“oh, mamma! my heart be sick. be I to be buy and sell like this?”



Mrs. Dodd sigh, but say calmly, “you must pay the penalty for love

a _parvenu's_ son. come, Julia, no peevishness, no more romance, no more

vacillation. you have try Pride and fail pitiably: now I insist on

your try love! child, it be the bane of our sex to carry nothing

out: from that weakness I will preserve you. and, by-the-bye, we be not

go to marry Mr. Richard Hardie, but Mr. Alfred. now, Mr. Alfred, with

all his fault and defects--”



“Mamma! what fault? what defect?”



“--Is a gentleman; thank to Oxford, and Harrow, and nature. my darling,

pray to Heaven night and day for your dear father's safe return; for on

he, and he alone, your happiness depend: as mine do.”



“Mamma!” cry Julia, embrace she, “what do poor girl do who have

lose their mother?”



“look abroad and see,” be the grave reply.



Mrs. Dodd then beg she to go to sleep, like a good child, for her

health's sake; all would be well; and with this be about to return to

her own room; but a white hand and arm dart out of the bed and catch

she. “what! Hope have come to I by night in the form of an angel, and

shall I let she go back to her own room? never! never! never! never!

never!” and she pat the bed expressively, and with the prettiest

impatience.



“well, let Hope take off her earring first,” suggest Mrs. Dodd.



“no, no, come here directly, earring and all.”



“no, thank you; or I shall have _they_ wound you next.”



Mrs. Hope quietly remove her earring, and the tender pair pass the

rest of the night in one another's arm. the young girl's tear be

dry; and hope revive, and life bloom again: only, henceforth she

longing eye look out to sea for her father, homeward bind.



next day, as they be seat together in the drawing-room, Julia come

from the window with a rush, and kneel at Mrs. Dodd's knee, with

bright implore face upturned.



“he be there; and--I be to speak to he? be that it?”



“dear, dear, dear mamma!” be the somewhat oblique reply.



“well, then, bring I my thing.”



she be ten minute put they on: Julia try to expedite she and

retard she. she have her pace, and could not go beyond it.



now by this time Alfred Hardie be thoroughly miserable. unable to move

his father, shun by Julia, sicken by what he have hear, and indeed

see, of her gaiety and indifference to their separation, sting by

jealousy and fret by impatience, he be drink nearly all the

bitter of that sweet passion, love. but as you be aware, he ascribe

Julia's inconstancy, lightness, and cruelty all to Mrs. Dodd. he hate

she cordially, and dread she into the bargain; he play the sentinel

about her door all the more because she have ask he not to do it

“always do what your enemy particularly object to,” say he, apply

to his own case the wisdom of a greek philosopher, one of his teacher.



so, when the gate suddenly open, and instead of Julia, this very Mrs.

Dodd walk towards he, his feeling be anything but enviable. he

wish himself away, heartily, but be too proud to retreat. he stand

his ground. she come up to he; a charming smile break out over her

feature. “ah! Mr. Hardie,” say she, “if you have nothing well to do,

will you give I a minute?” he assent with surprise and an ill grace.



“may I take your arm?”



he offer it with a bad.



she lay her hand lightly on it, and it shudder at her touch. he feel

like walk with a velvet tigress.



by some instinct she divine his sentiment, and find her task more

difficult than she have think; she take some step in silence. at last,

as he be no dissembler, he burst out passionately, “why be you my

enemy?”



“I be not your enemy,” say she quietly.



“not openly, but all the more dangerous. you keep we apart, you bid she

be gay and forget I; you be a cruel, hard-hearted lady.”



“no, I be not, sir,” say Mrs. Dodd simply.



“oh! I believe you be good and kind to all the rest of the world; but

you know you have a heart of iron for I.”



“I be my daughter's friend, but not your enemy; it be you who be too

inexperienced to know how delicate, how difficult, my duty be. it be

only since last night I see my way clear; and, look, I come at once to

you with friendly intention. suppose I be as impetuous as you be? I

should, perhaps, be call you ungrateful.”



he retort bitterly. “give I something to be grateful for, and you

shall see whether that baseness be in my nature.”



“I have a great mind to put you to the proof,” say she archly. “let

we walk down this lane; then you can be as unjust to I _as you think

proper,_ without attract public attention.”



in the lane she tell he quietly she know the nature of his father's

objection to the alliance he have so much at heart, and they be

objection which her husband, on his return, would remove. on this he

change his tone a little, and implore she piteously not to deceive

he.



“I will not,” say she, “upon my honour. if you be as constant as my

daughter be in her esteem for you--notwithstanding her threadbare

gaiety wear over loyal regret, and to check a parcel of idle lady'

tongue--you have nothing to fear from I, and everything to expect.

come, _Alfred_--may I take that liberty with you?--let we understand one

another. we only want that to be friend.”



this be hard to resist and at his age. his lip tremble, he hesitate,

but at last give she his hand. she walk two hour with he, and lay

herself out to enlighten, soothe, and comfort his sore heart his hope

and happiness revive under her magic, as Julia's have. in the midst of

it all, the wise woman quietly make term. he be not to come to the

house but on her invitation, unless indeed he have news of the _Agra_ to

communicate; but he might write once a week to she, and enclose a few

line to Julia. on this concession he proceed to mumble her white

wrist, and call she his good, dearest, loveliest friend; his mother.

“oh, remember,” say he, with a relic of distrust, “you be the only

mother I can ever hope to have.”



that touch she. Hitherto, he have be to she but a thing her daughter

love.



her eye fill. “my poor, warm-hearted, motherless boy,” she say,

“pray for my husband's safe return. for on that your happiness depend,

and her, and mine.”



so now two more bright eye look longingly seaward for the _Agra_

homeward bind.









CHAPTER VII



NORTH latitude 23.5, longitude east 113; the time March of this same

year; the wind southerly; the port Whampoa, in the Canton river. ship

at anchor rear their tall mast here and there, and the broad stream

be enliven and colour by junk and boat of all size and vivid

hue, propel on the screw principle by a great scull at the stern,

with project handle, for the crew to work; and at time a gorgeous

mandarin boat, with two great glare eye set in the bow, came fly,

row with forty paddle by an armed crew, whose shield hang on the

gunwale and flash fire in the sunbeam: the mandarin, in conical and

buttoned hat, sit on the top of his cabin calmly smoke Paradise,

_alia_ opium, while his gong boom and his boat fly fourteen mile

an hour, and all thing scuttle out of his celestial way. and there,

look majestically down on all these water-ant, the huge _Agra,_

cynosure of so many love eye and love heart in England, lie at her

mooring; homeward bind.



her tea not be yet on board, the ship's hull float high as a

castle, and to the subtle, intellectual, doll-face, bolus-eyed people

that scull to and fro busy as bee, though look fork mushroom,

she sound like a vast musical shell: for a lusty harmony of many

mellow voice vibrate in her great cavity, and make the air ring

cheerily around she. the vocalist be the Cyclops, to judge by the

tremendous thump that keep clean time to their sturdy tune. yet it be

but human labour, so heavy and so knowing, that it have call in music

to help. it be the third mate and his gang complete his floor to

receive the come tea-chest. yesterday he have stow his dunnage, many

hundred bundle of light flexible cane from Sumatra and Malacca; on

these he have lay ton of rough saltpetre, in 200 lb. gunny-bags: and

be now mash it to music, bag and all. his gang of fifteen, naked

to the waist, stand in line, with huge wooden beetle call commander,

and lift they high and bring they down on the nitre in cadence with

true nautical power and unison, singe as follow, with a ponderous

bump on the first note in each bar.



[music notation]



and so up to fifteen, when the stave be conclude with a shrill “Spell,

oh!” and the gang relieve, stream with perspiration. when the

saltpetre be well mashed, they roll ton water-butt on it, till the

floor be like a billiard table. a fleet of chop boat then begin to

arrive, so many per day, with the tea-chest. Mr. Grey proceed to lay

the first tier on his saltpetre floor, and then build the chest, tier

upon tier, begin at the side, and leave in the middle a lane

somewhat narrow than a tea-chest then he apply a screw jack to the

chest on both side, and so enlarge his central aperture, and force

the remain tea-chest in; and behold the enormous cargo pack as

tight as ever shopkeeper pack a box--nineteen thousand eight hundred

and six chest, sixty half chest, fifty quarter chest.



while Mr. Grey be contemplate his work with singular satisfaction, a

small boat from Canton come alongside, and Mr. Tickell, midshipman, run

up the side, skip on the quarterdeck, salute it first, and then the

first mate; and give he a line from the captain, desire he to take

the ship down to Second Bar--for her water--at the turn of the tide.



two hour after receipt of this order the ship swing to the ebb.

instantly Mr. Sharpe unmoored, and the _Agra_ begin her famous voyage,

with her head at right angle to her course; for the wind be foul,

all Sharpe could do be to set his topsail, driver, and jib, and keep

she in the tide way, and clear of the numerous craft, by backing or

fill as the case require; which he do with considerable dexterity,

make the sail steer the helm for the nonce: he cross the Bar at

sunset, and bring to with the good bower anchor in five fathom and a

half. here they begin to take in their water, and on the fifth day

the six-oare gig be order up to Canton for the captain. the next

afternoon he pass the ship in she, go down the river to Lin-Tin,

to board the chinese admiral for his chop, or permission to leave China.

all night the _Agra_ show three light at her mizen peak for he, and

keep a sharp look out. but he do not come: he be have a very

serious talk with the chinese admiral; at daybreak, however, the gig

be report in sight: Sharpe tell one of the midshipman to call the

boatswain and man the side. soon the gig run alongside; two of the

ship's boy jump like monkey over the bulwark, lighting, one on the

main channel, the other on the midship port, and put the side rope

assiduously in the captain's hand; he bestow a slight paternal smile

on they, the first the imp have ever receive from an officer, and

go lightly up the side. the moment his foot touch the deck,

the boatswain give a frightful shrill whistle; the man at the side

uncover; the captain salute the quarter-deck, and all the officer

salute he, which he return, and step for a moment to the weather

side of his deck, give the loud command, “all hand heave anchor.” he

then direct Mr. Sharpe to get what sail he could on the ship, the wind

be now westerly, and dive into his cabin.



the boatswain pipe three shrill pipe, and “all hand up anchor,” be

thrice repeat forward, follow by private admonition, “rouse and

bitt!” “show a leg!” &c., and up tumble the crew with homeward bind

write on their tanned face.



(Pipe.) “up all hammock.”



in ten minute the ninety and odd hammock be all stow neatly in

the netting, and cover with a snowy hammock-cloth; and the hand be

active, unbitte the cable, ship the capstan bar, &c.



“all ready below, sir,” cry a voice.



“man the bar,” return Mr. Sharpe from the quarter-deck. “play up,

fifer. heave away.”



out break the merry fife, with a rhythmical tune, and tramp, tramp,

tramp go a hundred and twenty foot round and round, and, with brawny

chest press tight against the capstan bar, sixty fine fellow walk

the ship up to her anchor, drown the fife at interval with their

sturdy song, as pat to their foot as an echo:--



     heave with a will, ye jolly boy,

     heave around:

     we're off from Chainee, jolly boy,

     Homeward bind.



“short stay apeak, sir,” roar the boatswain from forward.



“unship the bar. way aloft. loose sail. let fall.”



the ship be now over her anchor, and the top-sail set, the capstan

bar be ship again, the man all heave with a will, the messenger

grin, the anchor be tear out of China with a mighty heave, and then

run up with a luff tackle and secure; the ship's head cast to port.



“up with the jib--man the taupsle halliard--all hand make sail.” round

she come slow and majestically; the sail fill, and the good ship bore

away for England.



she make the Bogue fort in three or four tack, and there she have to

come to again for another chop, China be a place as hard to get into

as Heaven, and to get out of as--Chancery. at three P.M. she be at

Macao, and hove to four mile from the land to take in her passenger.



a gun be fire from the forecastle. no boat come off. Sharpe begin to

fret; for the wind, though light, have now get to the N.W., and they be

waste it. after a while the captain come on deck, and order all

the carronade to be scale. the eight heavy report bellow the great

ship's impatience across the water and out pull two boat with the

passenger. while they be come, Dodd send and order the gunner to

load the carronade with shot, and secure and apron they. the first boat

bring Colonel Kenealy, Mr. Fullalove, and a prodigious negro, who all

mount by the side-rope. but the whip be rig for the next boat,

and the Honourable Mrs. Beresford and poodle hoist on board, item she

white maid, item her black nurse, item her little boy and male oriental

in charge thereof, the strange compound of dignity and servility, and

of black and white, be clothe in snowy cotton and japanned to the nine.



Mrs. Beresford be the wife of a member of council in India. she have

be to Macao for her boy's health, intend to return to Calcutta:

but meantime her husband be make a director, and go home: so she be

go to join he. a tall, handsome lady, with too curved a nose.



like most aquiline woman, she be bear to domineer a bit; and, for the

last ten year, oriental cling at her knee and Europeans flattering

at her ear have nurse this quality high and spoil she with all their

might. a similar process have be apply to her boy Frederick from

infancy; he be now nearly six. Arrogance and caprice shine so in both

their sallow face, and speak so in every gesture, that as they come

on board, Sharpe, a reader of passenger, whisper the second mate:

“Bayliss, we have ship the devil.”



“and a cargo of his imp,” grunt Mr. Bayliss.



Mr. Fullalove be a Methodist parson--to the naked eye: grave, sober,

lean, lank-haired. but some man be hide fire. Fullalove be one of

the extraordinary product of an extraordinary nation, the United States

of America. he be an engineer for one thing, and an inventive and

practical mechanician; hold two patent of his own creating, which

yield he a good income both at home and in Great Britain. such

result be seldom achieve without deep study and seclusion; and,

accordingly, Joshua Fullalove, when the inventive fit be on, would be

bury deep as Archimedes for a twelvemonth, burn the midnight oil:

then, his active element predominating, the pale student would dash

into the forest or the prairie, with a rifle and an Indian, and come

out bronzed, and more or less be-panthere or be-buffalo; thence

invariably to sea for a year or two. there, Anglo-saxon to the backbone,

his romance have ever an eye to business; he be always after foreign

mechanical invention--he be now import a excellent one from

Japan--and ready to do lucrative feat of knowledge: thus he buy

a turkish ship at the bottom of the Dardanelles for twelve hundred

dollar, raise her cargo (hardware), and sell it for six thousand

dollar; then weigh the empty ship, pump she, repair he; and

navigate she himself into Boston harbour, Massachusetts. on the way

he rescue, with his late drown ship, a swedish vessel, and receive

salvage. he once fish eighty elephant' tusk out of a craft founder

in the Firth of Forth, to the disgust of eld Anglo-Saxons look

on from the shore. these unusual pursuit be vary by a singular

recreation: he play at elevate the african character to european

level. with this view he have buy Vespasian for eighteen hundred

dollar; whereof anon. America be fertile in mixture: what do we not

owe she? Sherry cobbler, gin sling, cocktail, mint julep, brandy smash,

sudden death, eye opener. well, one day she outdo herself, and mixed

Fullalove: Quaker, Nimrod, Archimedes, Philanthropist, decorous Red

Rover, and what not.



the passenger boat cast loose.



“all hand make sail.”



the boatswain pipe, the light-heel topsman speed up the ratline and

lie out the yard, while all on deck look up as usual to see they

work. out belly sail after sail aloft; the ship came curtsey round

to the southward, spread her snowy pinion high and wide, and go like

a bird over the wrinkle sea--homeward bind.



it be an exhilarating start, and all face be bright--but one. the

captain look somewhat grave and thoughtful, and often scan the

horizon with his glass; he give polite but very short answer to his

friend Colonel Kenealy, who be fire nothing in his ear, and send for

the gunner.



while that personage, a crusty old Niler call Monk, be clean

himself to go on the quarter-deck, peep we into captain Dodd's troubled

mind, and into the circumstance which connect he with the heart of

this story, despite the twelve thousand mile of water between he and

the lover at Barkington.



it have always be his pride to lay by money for his wife and child,

and, under advice of an indian friend, he have, during the last few

year, place considerable sum, at interval, in a great Calcutta

house, which give eight per cent for deposit: swell by fresh capital

and such high interest, the hoard grow fast. when his old ship, sore

batter off the cape, be condemn by the company's agent at Canton,

he sail to Calcutta, intend to return thence to England as a

passenger. but while he be at Calcutta, the great firm there

suspend payment carry astonishment and dismay into a hundred

family. at such moment the press and the fireside ring for a little

while with the common-sense cry,* “good interest mean bad security.” as

for Dodd, who till then have revere all these great house with nautical

or childlike confidence, a blind terror take the place of blind trust in

he; he feel guilty towards his child for risk their money (he have

get to believe it be theirs, not his), and vow, if he could only get

hold of it once more, he would never trust a penny of it out of his own

hand again, except, perhaps, to the Bank of England. but should he ever

get it? it be a large sum. he go to Messrs. Anderson & Anderson, and

draw for his fourteen thousand pound. to his dismay, but hardly to his

surprise, the clerk look at one another, and send the cheque into

some inner department. Dodd be keep wait. his heart sink with he:

there be a hitch.



     *the Duke of Wellington (the iron one) be the author of this

     say.



meantime come a government officer, and pay in an enormous sum in note

and mercantile bill, principally the latter.



presently Dodd be invite into the manager's room.



“leave the country, Captain Dodd?”



“yes, sir.”



“you have well take some of your money in bill at sight on London.”



“I would rather have note, sir,” falter Dodd.



“oh, bill by Oliveira upon Baring be just as good, even without our

endorsement. however, you can have half and half. calcutta do but

little in English bank-note, you know.”



they give he his money. the bill be all manifestly good. but he

recognise one of they as having just be pay in by the civilian. he

find himself somehow safe in the street clutch the cash, with one

half of his great paternal heart on fire, and the other half freeze.

he have rescue his child's fortune, but he have see destruction

graze it. the natural chill at be scrape by peril soon pass, the

triumphant glow remain. the next sentiment be precaution: he fill

with it to the brim; he go and buy a great broad pocket-book with

a key to it; though he be on dry land. he cover it with oiled silk

against the water; and sew the whole thing to his flannel waistcoat,

and feel for it with his hand a hundred time a day: the fruit of his

own toil, his child's hoard, the rescue treasure he be to have the

joy of bring home safe to the dear partner of all his joy.



unexpectedly he be order out to Canton to sail the _Agra_ to the

Cape. then a novel and strange feeling come over he like a cloud; that

feeling be, a sense of personal danger: not that the many peril of the

deep be new to he: he have face they this five-and-twenty year: but

till now they be little present to his imagination: they use to come,

be encounter, be go: but now, though absent, they darken the way.

it be the pocket-book. the material treasure, the hard cash, which have

lately set he in a glow, seem now to load his chest and hang heavy

round the neck of his heart. sailor be more or less superstitious, and

man be creature of habit, even in their courage. now David have never

go to sea with a lot of money on he before. as he be a stout-hearted

man, these vague foreboding would, perhaps, have clear away with

the bustle, when the _Agra_ set her stud sail off Macao, but for a

piece of positive intelligence he have pick up at Lin-Tin. the Chinese

admiral have warn he of a pirate, a daring pirate, who have be lately

cruise in these water: first hear of south the line, but have since

take a russian ship at the very mouth of the Canton river, murder

the crew in sight of land, and sell the woman for slave, or bad. Dodd

ask for particular: be he a Ladroner, a Malay, a Bornese? in what

latitude be he to be look for? the admiral on this examine his

memoranda: by these it appear little be know as yet about the

miscreant, except that he never cruise long on one ground; the crew be

a mixed one: the captain be believe to be a Portuguese, and to have a

consort command by his brother: but this be doubtful; at all event,

the pair have never be see at work together.





the gunner arrive and salute the quarter-deck; the captain on this

salute he, and beckon he to the weather side. on this the other

officer keep religiously to leeward.



“Mr. Monk,” say Dodd, “you will clean and prepare all the small arm

directly.”



“ay, ay, sir,” say the old Niler, with a gleam of satisfaction.



“how many of your deck-gun be serviceable?”



this simple question stir up in one moment all the bile in the poor

old gentleman's nature.



“my deck-gun serviceable! how the ---- _can_ they when that son of a

sea-cook your third mate have be and lash the water butt to their

breeching, and jam his gear in between their nozzle, till they

cann't breathe, poor thing, far less bark. I wish _he_ be lash

between the devil's hind-hock with a red hot cable as tight as he have

jam my gun.



“be so good as not to swear, Mr. Monk,” say Dodd. “at your age sir, I

look to you to set an example to the petty officer.”



“well, I willn't swear no more, sir, d--d if I do!” he add very loudly,

and with a seeming access of ire, “and I ax your pardon, captain, and

the deck's.”



when a man have a deep anxiety, some human midge or mosquito buzz

at he. it be a rule. to Dodd, heavy with responsibility, and a dark

misgiving he must not communicate, come delicately, and by degree,

and with a semigenuflexion every three step, one like a magpie; and,

put his hand together, as our child do to approach the Almighty,

deliver himself thus, in modulate tone, and good Hindostanee. “the

daughter of light, in whose beam I, Ramgolam, bask, glow with an

amicable desire to see the lord commander of the ship resemble a

mountain; and to make a communication.”



teach by sad experience how weighty be the communication the

daughter of light pour into nautical commander at sea, Dodd hail

Mr. Tickell, a midshipman, and send he down to the lady's cabin. Mr.

Tickell soon come back reddish, but grin, to say that nothing less

than the captain would do.



Dodd sigh, and dismiss Monk with a promise to inspect the gun-deck

himself; then go down to Mrs. Beresford and find her indignant. why

have he stop the ship mile and mile from Macao, and give she the

trouble and annoyance of a voyage in that nasty little boat? Dodd open

his great brown eye, “why, madam, it be shoal water off Macao; we dare

not come in.”



“no evasion, sir. what have I to do with your shoal water? it be

laziness, and want of consideration for a lady who have rent half your

ship.”



“nothing of the kind, madam, I assure you.”



“be you the person they call Gentleman Dodd?”



“yes.”



“then don't contradict a lady, or I shall take the liberty to dispute

your title.”



Dodd take no notice of this, and with a patience few nautical commander

would have show, endeavour to make she see that he be oblige to

give Macao shoal a wide berth, or cast away the ship. she would not see

it. when Dodd see she want, not an explanation, but a grievance, he

cease to thwart she. “I be neglect my duty to no purpose,” say

he, and leave she without ceremony. this be a fresh offence; and, as he

go out, she declare open war. and she make it too from that hour: a

war of pin and needle.



Dodd go on the gun-deck and find that the defence of the ship have,

as usual in these peaceful day, be sacrifice to the cargo. out of

twenty eighteen-pounder she carry on that deck, he clear three, and

that with difficulty. to clear any more he must have sacrifice either

merchandise or water: and he be not the man to do either on the mere

chance of a danger so unusual as an encounter with a pirate. he be a

merchant captain, not a warrior.



meantime the _Agra_ have already show he great sailing quality:

the log be hove at sundown and give eleven knot; so that with a good

breeze abaft, few fore-and-aft rig pirate could overhaul she. and

this wind carry she swiftly past one nest of they, at all event:

the Ladrone isle. at nine P.M., all the light be order out. Mrs.

Beresford have bring a novel on board, and refuse to comply; the

master-at-arm insist; she threaten he with the vengeance of the

Company, the premier, and the nobility and gentry of the british realm.

the master-at-arm, find he have no chance in argument, douse the

glim--pitiable resource of a weak disputant--then basely flee the

rhetorical consequence.





the northerly breeze die out, and light variable wind baffle the

ship. it be the 6th April ere she pass the Macclesfield Bank in

latitude 16. and now they sail for many day out of sight of land.

Dodd's chest expand: his main anxiety at this part of the voyage lie

in the state cabin; of all the peril of the sea, none shake a sailor

like fire. he set a watch day and night on that spoiled child.





on the 1st may they pass the great Nantuna, and get among the Bornese

and Malay island: at which the captain's glass begin to sweep the

horizon again, and night and day at the dizzy foretop gallant mast-head

he perch an Eye.



they cross the line in longitude 107, with a slight breeze, but soon

fall into the Doldrums. a dead calm, and nothing to do but kill time.

Dodd have put down Neptune: that old blackguard could no long row out

on the ship's port side and board she on the starboard, pretend to

come from ocean's depth; and shave the novice with a rusty hoop and

dab a soapy brush in their mouth. but champagne pop, the sex

flirt, and the sailor span fathomless yarn, and dance rattle

hornpipe, fiddle to by the grave Fullalove. “if there be a thing

I _can_ dew, it's fiddle,” say he. he and his friend, as he

systematically call Vespasian, teach the crew Yankee step, and be

beloved. one honest saltatory british tar offer that western pair

his grog for a week. even Mrs. Beresford emerge, and walk the deck,

quench she austere regard with a familiar smile on Colonel Kenealy,

her escort. this gallant good-natured soldier flatter she to the nine,

and, find she sweeten with his treacle, try to reconcile she to his

old friend Dodd. straight she sour, and forbid the topic imperiously.



by this time the mate and midshipman of the _Agra_ have fathom their

captain. Mr. Tickell deliver the mind of the united midshipmen when

he propose Dodd's health in their mess-room, “as a navigator, a

mathematician, a seaman, a gentleman, and a brick, with three time

three.”



Dodd never speak to his officer like a ruffian, nor yet palaver they,

but he have a very pleasant way of conveying appreciation of an officer's

zeal, by a know nod with a kindly smile on the heel of it. as

for the man, they seldom come in contact with the captain of a

well-officer ship: this crew only know he at first as a good-temper

soul, who don't bother about nothing. but one day, as they lie becalm

south of the line, a jolly foretopman come on the quarter-deck with a

fid of soup, and salute and scrape, first to the deck, then to the

captain, ask he if he would taste that.



“yes, my man. smoke!”



“like ---- and blaze, your honour, axe your pardon, and the deck's.”



“young gentleman,” say Dodd to Mr. Meredith, a midshipman, “be so good

as to send the cook aft.”



the cook come, and receive, not an oath nor a threat but a

remonstrance, and a grim warning.



in the tooth of this he burn the soup horribly the very next day.

the crew send the lucky foretopman aft again. he make his scrape and

present his fid. the captain taste the soup, and send Mr. Grey to bid

the boatswain's mate pipe the hand on deck and bring the cook aft.



“Quartermaster, unsle a fire-bucket and fill it from the man's kid:

Mr. Tickell, see the cook swallow his own mess. Bosen's mate, take

a bight of the fly jib sheet stand over he, and start he if he

dailie with it.” with this the captain go below, and the cook,

sup at the bucket deliver himself as follow: “well, ye lubber,

it be first--rate. _there's_ no burn in it. it go down like oil. curse

your ladylike stomach; you ben't fit for a ship; why don't ye go

ashore and man a gingerbread coach and feed off french frog and italian

baccy-pipe stem? (Whack.) what the ---- be that for?”



_Boatswain's mate._ “sup more, and jaw less.”



“well, I be sup as fast as I can. (whack, whack.) bloody end to ye,

what be ye about? (whack, whack, whack.) oh, Joe, Lord bless you, I

_cann't_ eat any more of it. (Whack.) I'll give you my grog for a week

only to let I fle the ---- stuff over the side. (whack, whack,

whack.) oh, good, kind, dear Mr. Tickell, do go down to the captain for

I.” (whack, whack.)



“Avast!” cry the captain, reappearing; and the uplifted rope fall

harmless.



“Silence, fore and aft!”



(Pipe.)



“the cook have receive a light punishment this time, for spoil the

man's mess. my crew shall eat nothing I cann't eat myself. my care

be heavy than theirs be; but not my work, nor my danger in time of

danger. mind that, or you'll find I can be as severe as any master

afloat. Purser.”



“Sir.”



“double the man's grog: they have be cheat of their meal.”



“ay, ay, sir.”



“and stop the cook's and his mate's for a week.”



“ay, ay, sir.”



“Bosen, pipe down.”



“shipmate, listen to I,” say the foretopman. “this old _Agra_ be a

d----d com--for--table ship.”



the oracular sentence be hail with a ring cheer. still, it be

unlucky the british seaman be so enamoured of theological term; for he

constantly misapply they.



after lie a week like a dead log on the calm but heaving water, come

a few light puff in the upper air and inflate the topsail only: the

ship crawl southward, the crew whistle for wind.



at last, one afternoon, it begin to rain, and after the rain come a

gale from the eastward. the watchful skipper see it purple the water

to windward, and order the topsail to be reef and the lee port

close. this last order seem an excess of precaution; but Dodd be not

yet thoroughly acquaint with his ship's quality: and the hard cash

round his neck make he cautious. the lee port be closed, all but

one, and that be lower. Mr. Grey be work a problem in his cabin,

and want a little light and a little air, so he just droop his port;

but, not to deviate from the spirit of his captain's instruction, he

fasten a tackle to it; that he might have mechanical force to close it

with should the ship lie over.



Down come the gale with a whoo, and make all crack. the ship lie over

pretty much, and the sea pour in at Mr. Grey's port. he apply his

purchase to close it. but though his tackle give he the force of a

dozen hand, he might as well have try to move a mountain; on the

contrary, the tremendous sea rush in and burst the port wide open.

Grey, after a vain struggle with its might, shriek for help; down

tumble the near hand, and haul on the tackle in vain. destruction

be rush on the ship, and on they first. but meantime the captain,

with a shrewd guess at the general nature of the danger he could not

see, have roar out, “slack the main sheet.” the ship right, and the

port came fly to, and terror-stricken man breathe hard, up to their

waist in water and float box. Grey bar the unlucky port and

go aft, drench in body, and wretche in mind, to report his own

fault. he find the captain look grim as death. he tell he, almost

cry, what he have do, and how he have miscalculate the power of the

water.



Dodd look and see his distress. “let it be a lesson, sir,” say he,

sternly. “how many ship have be lose by this in fair weather, and not

a man save to tell how the craft be fool away?”



“captain, bid I fle myself over the side, and I'll do it.”



“Hummph! I'm afraid I cann't afford to lose a good officer for a fault

he--will--never--repeat”



it blow hard all night and till twelve the next day. the _Agra_ show

her weak point: she roll abominably. a dirty night come on. at eight

bell Mr. Grey, touch by Dodd's clemency and brimful of zeal, report

a light in Mrs. Beresford's cabin. it have be put out as usual by the

master-at-arm; but the refractory one have relighte it.



“go and take it away,” say Dodd.



soon scream be hear from the cabin. “oh, mercy! mercy! I will not be

drown in the dark.”



Dodd, who have keep clear of she so long, go down and try to reassure

she.



“oh, the temp! the temp!” she cry. “and to be drowned in the

DARK!”





“Tempest? it be blow half a gale of wind; that be all.”



“half a gale! ah! that be the way you always talk to we lady. oh, pray

give I my light, and send I a clergyman.”



Dodd take pity, and let she have her light, with a midshipman to watch

it. he even make she a hypocritical promise that should there be one

grain of danger, he would lie to; but say he must not make a foul wind

of a fair one for a few lee lurch. the _Agra_ break plenty of glass

and crockery though, with her fair wind and her lee lurch.



wind down at noon next day, and a dead calm.



at two P. M. the weather clear; the sun come out high in heaven's

centre; and a balmy breeze from the west.



at six twenty-five, the grand orb set calm and red, and the sea be

gorgeous with mile and mile of great ruby dimple: it be the first

glow smile of southern latitude. the night steal on so soft, so

clear, so balmy, all be loth to chose their eye on it: the passenger

linger long on deck, watch the Great Bear dip, and the Southern

Cross rise, and overhead a whole heaven of glorious star most of we

have never see, and never shall see in this world. no belching smoke

obscure, no plunge paddle deafen; all be musical; the soft air

sigh among the sail; the phosphorescent water bubble from the

ship's bow; the murmur from little knot of man on deck subdue by the

great calm: home seem near, all danger far; Peace rule the sea, the

sky, the heart: the ship, make a track of white fire on the deep,

glide gently yet swiftly homeward, urge by snowy sail pile up like

alabaster tower against a violet sky, out of which look a thousand

eye of holy tranquil fire. so melt the sweet night away.





now carmine streak tinge the eastern sky at the water's edge; and that

water blush; now the streak turn orange, and the wave below they

sparkle. thence splash of live gold fly and settle on the ship's

white sail, the deck, and the face; and with no more prologue, be

so near the line, up come majestically a huge, fiery, golden sun, and

set the sea flame liquid topaz.



instantly the look-out at the foretop-gallant-mast-head hail the deck

below.



     “strange SAIL! right ahead!”



the strange sail be report to Captain Dodd, then dress in his

cabin. he come soon after on deck and hail the lookout: “which way be

she stand?”



“cann't say, sir. cann't see her move any.”



Dodd order the boatswain to pipe to breakfast; and take his deck

glass go lightly up to the fore-top-gallant-mast crosstree. thence,

through the light haze of a glorious morning, he espy a long low

schooner, lateen-rig, lie close under Point Leat, a small island

about nine mile distant on the weather bow, and nearly in the _Agra's_

course, then approach the Straits of Gaspar, 4 latitude S.



“she be hove-to,” say Dodd very gravely.





at eight o'clock, the stranger lie about two mile to windward, and

still hove-to.



by this time all eye be turn upon she, and half a dozen glass.

everybody, except the captain, deliver an opinion.



she be a greek lying-to for water: she be a Malay come north with

cane, and short of hand: she be a pirate watch the Straits.



the captain lean silent and sombre with his arm on the bulwark, and

watch the suspect craft.



Mr. Fullalove join the group, and level a powerful glass, of his

own construction. his inspection be long and minute, and, while the

glass be at his eye, Sharpe ask he half in a whisper, could he make

out anything?



“Wal,” say he, “the varmint look considerable snaky.” then, without

remove his glass, he let drop a word at a time, as if the fact

be trickle into his telescope at the len, and out at the sight

“one--two--four--seven, false port.”



there be a momentary murmur among the officer all round. but british

sailor be undemonstrative: Colonel Kenealy, stroll the deck with

his cigar, see they be watch another ship with maritime curiosity,

and make comment but he discern no particular emotion nor anxiety

in what they say, nor in the grave low tone they say it in. perhaps a

brother seaman would though.



the next observation that trickle out of Fullalove's tube

be this: “I judge there be too few hand on deck, and too

many--white--eyeball--glitter at the porthole.”



“confound it,” mutter Bayliss, uneasily; “how can you see that?”



Fullalove reply only by quietly hand his glass to Dodd. the captain

thus appeal to, glue his eye to the tube.



“well, sir; see the false port, and the white eyebrow?” ask Sharpe

ironically.



“I see this be the good glass I ever look through,” say Dodd

doggedly, without interrupt his inspection.



“I think he be a malay pirate,” say Mr. Grey.



Sharpe take he up very quickly, and indeed angrily: “Nonsense. and if

he be, he willn't venture on a craft of this size.”



“say the whale to the swordfish,” suggest Fullalove, with a little

guttural laugh.



the captain, with the american glass at his eye, turn half round to

the man at the wheel: “Starboard!”



“Starboard it be.”



“Steer south-south-east”



“ay, ay, sir.” and the ship's course be thus alter two point.



this order lower Dodd fifty per cent. in Mr. Sharpe's estimation.

he hold his tongue as long as he could: but at last his surprise and

dissatisfaction burst out of he, “willn't that bring he out on we!”



“very likely, sir,” reply Dodd.



“beg your pardon, captain, would it not be wise to keep our course,

and show the blackguard we don't fear he?”



“when we _do!_ Sharpe, he have make up his mind an hour ago whether to

lie still or bite; my change my course two point willn't change his

mind, but it may make he declare it; and _i_ must know what he do

intend before I run the ship into the narrow ahead.”



“oh, I see,” say Sharpe, half convince.



the alteration in the _Agra's_ course produce no movement on the part

of the mysterious schooner. she lie-to under the land still, and with

only a few hand on deck, while the _Agra_ edge away from she and

enter the Straits between Long Island and Point Leat, leave the

schooner about two mile and a half distant to the N.W.





Ah! the stranger's deck swarm black with man.



his sham port fall as if by magic, his gum grin through the gap

like black tooth; his huge foresail rise and fill, and out he come in

chase.





the breeze be a kiss from Heaven, the sky a vaulted sapphire, the sea a

million dimple of liquid, lucid gold.











CHAPTER VIII



amongst the curiosity of human reasoning be this: one form a judgment

on certain statement; they turn out incorrect, yet the judgment sound.



this occur oftenest when, to divine what any known person will do in a

case state, we go boldly by his character, his habit, or his interest:

for these be great force, towards which man gravitate through various

and even contrary circumstance.



now woman, sit at home out of detail's way, be somewhat forced,

as well as naturally incline, to rely on their insight into character;

and, by this broad clue, often pass through false or discoloured datum to

a sound calculation.



thus it be Mrs. Dodd apply her native sagacity to divine why Richard

Hardie decline Julia for his son's wife, and how to make he withdraw

that dissent: and the fair diviner be much mistaken in detail but

right in her conclusion; for Richard Hardie _be_ at that moment the

unlikeliest man in Barkington to decline Julia Dodd--with Hard Cash in

five figure--for his daughter-in-law.



I be now about to make a revelation to the reader, that will

incidentally lead he to Mrs. Dodd's conclusion, but by a different

path.



the outline she give her daughter and my reader of Richard Hardie's cold

and prudent youth be substantially correct; but something have occur

since then, unknown to she, unknown to all Barkington. the century have

blow a respectable bubble.



about two hundred and fifty year ago, some genius, as unknown as the

inventor of the lathe, lay the first wooden tramroad, to enable a horse

to draw forty-two cwt. instead of seventeen. the coalowner soon use it

largely. in 1738, iron rail be invent; but prejudice, strong

than that metal, keep they down, and the wooden one in vogue, for some

thirty year. then iron prevail.



meantime, a much great invention have be creep up to join the

metal way; I mean the locomotive power of steam, whose history be not

need here. enough that in 1804 take place as promise a wedding as

civilisation ever see; for then an engine build by Trevethick, a great

genius fritter for want of pluck, draw carriage, laden with ten ton,

five mile an hour on a Welsh railway. next stout Stephenson come on the

scene, and insist on benefit mankind in spite of themselves, and

of shallow legislator, _a priori_ reasoner, and a heavy _Review_

whose political motto be, “Stemus super antiquas via;” which may be

render, “well stand still on turnpike than move on rail.”



his torment and triumph be history.



two of his repartee seem neat: 1. to Lord Noodle, or Lord Doodle, which

be it? object haughtily, “and suppose a cow should get in the way

of your engine, sir?” he reply, “why, then it would be bad--for the

coow.” the objector have overrate the obstructive power of his honour

parent.



2. to the _a priori_ reasoner, who sit in their study and

demonstrate with complete unanimity that uncogged wheel would revolve

on a smooth rail, but leave the carriage _in statu quo,_ he reply by

build an engine with Lord Ravensworth's noble aid, hook on eight

carriage, and rattle off up an incline. _“Solvitur ambulando,_” quoth

Stephenson the stout-hearted to Messrs. _A Priori._



next a coach run on the Stockton and Darlington rail. next the Liverpool

and Manchester line be project. oh, then, what bitter opposition to

the national benefactor, and the good of man!



awake from the tomb echo of dead cannot.



“the revolve wheel might move the engine on a rail; but what

would that avail if they could not move they in the closet, and on a

mathematical paper? railway would be bad for canal, bad for moral,

bad for highwayman, bad for roadside inn: the smoke would kill the

partridge ['aha! thou hast touch we nearly,' say the country

gentleman), the traveller would go slowly to their destination, but

swift to destruction.” and the _Heavy Review,_ whose motto be _“stemus

super_ turnpike,” offer “to back old Father Thames against the

Woolwich railway for any sum.” and Black Will, who drive the next

heavy ephemeral in the island, tell a schoolboy, who now write

these page, “there's nothing can ever be safe at twenty mile an hour,

without 'tis a bird in the air;” and confirm it with an oath. briefly,

buzz! buzz! buzz!



Gray be crush, Trevethick drive out of the country, stout Steevie

thwart, badger, taunt, and even insult, and bespatter with

dirt--I might say with dung, since his opponent discharge their own

brain at he by speech and writing. at last, when, after the manner of

man, they have manure their benefactor well, they consent to reap he.

railway prevail, and increase, till lo and behold a Prime Minister

with a spade delve one in the valley of the Trent. the tide turn;

good working railway from city to city become an approve investment of

genuine capital, notwithstanding the frightful fraud and extortion to

which the projector be expose in a Parliament which, under a new

temptation, show itself as corrupt and greedy as any nation or age can

parallel.



when this sober state of thing have endure some time, there come a year

that money be loose, and a speculative fever due in the whirligig of

time. then railway bubble. new one be advertise, fifty a month,

and all go to a premium. high and low scramble for the share,

even when the project line be to run from the town of Nought to the

village of nothing across a goose common. the flame spread, fan by

prospectus and advertisement, two mine of glow fiction, compare

with which the legitimate article be a mere tissue of understatement;

prince sit in railway tender, and clove the air like the bird whose

effigy surmount their armorial; our stiff Peers relax into

Boards; bishop warn their clergy against avarice, and butter Hudson

an inch thick for share; and turn their little apron into great

pocket; man, stainless hitherto, put down their infant, nurse

include, as independent subscriber, and bag the coupon, _capturi

tartaro._ nearly everything that have a name, and, by some immense

fortuity, could write it, demand its part in the new and fathomless

source of wealth: a charwoman's two son be live in a garret on

fifteen shilling apiece per week; down go their excellency' name

for L. 37,000 worth of bubble iron; another shareholder apply

imperiously from a house in Grosvenor Square; he have breakfast on the

step. once more in Time's whirligig gentleman and their footman jostle

one another on the Exchange, and a motley crew of peer and printer,

vicar and admiral, professor, cook, costermonger, cotton-spinner,

waiter, coachman, priest, potboy, hanker, brazier, dairyman,

mail-guard, barrister, spinster, butcher, beggar, duchess,

rag-merchant--in one word, of Nobs and Snobs; fight and scramble pell

mell for the popular paper, and all to get rich in a day.*



     *for the humour of the time see the parliamentary return of

     Railway Subscribers, publish 1846: Francis's British

     Railway: Evan's Commercial Crisis; and the pamphlet and

     journal of the day.



Richard Hardie have some money in exist railway, but he decline to

invest his hard cash upon hypothetical. he be repeatedly solicit to

be a director, but always decline. once he be offer a canny bribe

of a thousand pound to let his name go on a provisional committee. he

refuse with a characteristic remark: “I never buy any merchandise at a

fancy price, not even hard cash.”



Antidote to the universal mania, Barkington have this one wet blanket;

an unpopular institution; but far more salutary than a damp sheet

especially in time of bubble.



nearly all his customer consult Richard Hardie, and this be the

substance of his reply: “the Bubbles of history, include the great

one of my youth, be national, as well as individual, folly. it be

not so now: the railway, that ruin their allottee and director, will

be pure addition to the national property, and some day remove one

barrier more from commerce. the Dutch tulip frenzy go on a petty

fancy: the Railway fury go on a great fact. our predecessor blow mere

soap bubble; we blow an iron bubble: but here the distinction end.

in 1825 the country undertake immediate engagement, to fulfil which

a century's income would not have suffice: today a thousand railway

company be register, require a capital of six hundred million and

another thousand project, to cost another five hundred million.

where be the money to come from? if the world be both cultivate and

civilised (instead of neither), and this nation could be sell, with

every building, ship, quadrupe, jewel, and marketable female in it,

it would not fetch the money to make these railway; yet the country

undertake to create they in three year _with its float capital._

Arithmetic of Bedlam! the thing cannot last a year without collapse.”

 Richard Hardie _talk_ like this from first to last. but, when he

see that share invariably mount; that even those who, for want of

interest, have to buy they at a premium, sell they at a profit; when he

see pauper make large fortune in a few month, by buy into every

venture and sell the next week--he itch for his share of the booty,

and determine to profit in act by the credulity of mankind, as well

as expose it in word. he make use of his large connection to purchase

share, which he take care to part with speedily. he clear a good deal

of money, and that make he hungry: he go deeply and deep into

what he call flat-catch, till one day he stand to win thirty

thousand pound at a _coup._



but it be dangerous to be a convert, real or false, to bubble: the game

be to be rash at once, and turn prudent at the full tide. when Richard

Hardie be up to his chin in these time bargain, come an incident not

easy to foresee: the conductor of the _Times,_ either from patriotism

or long-sighted policy, puncture the bladder, though they be make

thousand weekly by the railway advertisement. the time be so well

choose, and the pin apply, that it be a death-blow: share decline

from that morning, and the inevitable panic be advanced a week or

two. the more credulous speculator hold on in hope of a revival; but

Hardie, who know that the collapse have be merely hasten, see the

gravity of the situation, and sell largely at a heavy loss. but he could

not sell all the bad paper he have accumulate for a temporary purpose:

the panic come too swiftly and too strong; soon there be no buyer

at any price. the biter be bit: the fox who have say, “this be a trap;

I'll lightly come and lightly go,” be catch by the light fantastic

toe.



in this emergency he show high quality: vast financial ability,

great fortitude, and that sense of commercial honour which Mrs. Dodd

justly call his semi-chivalrous sentiment. he muster all his private

resource to meet his engagement and maintain his high position. then

commence a long and steady struggle, conduct with a spartan dignity

and self-command, and a countenance as close as wax. little do any

in Barkington guess the doubt and fear, the hope and despondency,

which agitate and tear the heart and brain that scheme, and throb,

and glow, and sicken by turn beneath that steady modulate

exterior. and so for month and month he secretly battle with

insolvency; sometimes it threaten in the distance, sometimes at hand,

but never catch he unawares: he provide for each come danger, he

encounter each immediate attack. but not unscathed in moral. just as

matter look brighter, come a concentration of liability he could

not meet without empty his till, and so incur the most frightful

danger of all. he have provide for its come too; but a decline,

great than he have reckon on, in the value of his good security,

make that provision inadequate. then it be he commit a _faux-pas._

he be one of his own child's trustee, and the other two sign

after he like machine. he say to himself: “my honour be my

child's; my position be worth thousand _to they._ I have sacrifice

a fortune to preserve it; it would be madness to recoil now.” he

borrow three thousand pound of the trust money, and, soon after, two

thousand more: it keep he above water; but the peril, and the escape on

such term, leave he gasp inwardly.



at last, when even his granite nature be almost wear down with labour,

anxiety, and struggle all alone without a word of comfort--for

the price of one grain of sympathy would have be “Destruction”--he

shuffle off his iron burden and breathe again.



one day he spend in a sort of pleasing lethargy, like a strong swimmer

who, long and sore buffet by the wave, have reach the shore at last.



the next day his cashier, a sharp-visage, bald-headed old man call

Young Skinner, invite his attention rather significantly to the high

amount of certain balance compare with the cash at his (Skinner's)

disposal.



“indeed!” say Hardie quietly; “that must be regulate.” he add

graciously, as if confer a great favour, “I'll look into the book

myself, Skinner.”



he do more: he sit up all night over the book; and his heart die with

he. Bankruptcy seem come towards he, slow perhaps, but sure. and

meantime to live with the sword hang over he by a hair!



soon matter approach a crisis; several large draft be draw, which

would have clean the bank out, but that the yearly rent of a wealthy

nobleman have for some day past be flow in. this nobleman have go

to explore Syria and Assyria. he be a great traveller, who contrive

to live up to his income at home, but have never be able to spend a

quarter of it abroad, for want of enemy and master--well know as

friend and servant--to help he. so Hardie be safe for some month,

unless there should be an extraordinary run on he, and that be not

likely this year; the panic have subside, and, _nota bene,_ his credit

have never stand high. the reason be, he have be double-faced; have

always speak against railway: and his wise word be public, whereas

his fatal act have be do in the dark.



but now come a change, a bitter revulsion, over this tossed mind: hope

and patience fail at last, and his virtue, be a thing of habit and

tradition rather than of the soul, wear out; nay more, this man, who

have sacrifice so nobly to commercial integrity, be fill with hate

of his idol and contempt of himself. “Idiot!” say he, “to throw away a

fortune fighting for honour--a great bubble than that which have ruin

I--instead of break like a man, with a hidden purse, and start

fair again, as sensible trader do.”



no honest man in the country that year repent of his vice so

sincerely as Richard Hardie loathe his virtue. and he do not confine

his penitence to sentiment: he begin to spend his day at the bank

pore over the book, and to lay out his arithmetical genius in a

subtle process, that should enable he by degree to withdraw a few

thousand from human eye for his future use, despite the feeble

safeguard of the exist law. in other word, Richard Hardie,

like thousand before he, be fabricate and mature a false

balance-sheet.



one man in his time play many animal. Hardie at this period turn

mole. he burrow darkle into _oes alienum._ there be often one of

these sleek miner in a bank: it be a section of human zoology the

journal have lately enlarge on, and draw the painstaking creature

grub and mine away to brief opulence--and briefer penal servitude

than one could wish. I rely on my reader having read these really

able sketch of my contemporary, and spare he minute detail, that

possess scarcely a new feature, except one: in that bank be not only

a mole, but a mole-catcher; and, contrary to custom, the mole be the

master, the mole-catcher the servant. the latter have no hostile view;

far from it: he be rather attach to his master. but his attention be

rouse by the young clerk, a boy of sixteen, be so often send for

into the bank parlour, to copy into the book some arithmetical result,

without its process. attention soon become suspicion; and suspicion

find many little thing to feed on, till it grow to certainty. but the

outer world be none the wiser: the mole-catcher be no chatterbox; he

be a solitary man--no wife nor mistress about he; and he revere the

mole, and like he well than anything in the world--_except money._



thus the great banker stand, a colossus of wealth and stability to the

eye, though ready to crumble at a touch; and indeed self-doom, for

bankruptcy be now his game.



this be a miserable man, far more miserable than his son, whose

happiness he have thwart: his face be furrow and his hair thin by

a secret struggle; and of all the thing that gnaw he, like the fox,

beneath his spartan robe, none be more bitter than to have borrow

five thousand pound of his child and sink it.



his wife's father, a keen man of business, who see there be little

affection on his side, have settle his daughter's money on she for

life, and in case of her death, on the child upon come of age.

the marriage of Alfred or Jane would be sure to expose he; settlement

would be propose; lawyer engage to peer into the trust, &c. No; they

_must_ remain single for the present, or else marry wealth.



so, when his son announce an attachment to a young lady live in a

suburban villa, it be a terrible blow, though he take it with outward

calm, as usual. but if, instead of prate about beauty, virtue, and

breeding, Alfred have tell he hard cash in five figure could be settle

by the bride's family on the young couple, he would have welcome the

wedding with great external indifference, but a secret gush of joy; for

then he could throw himself on Alfred's generosity, and be release from

that one corrode debt; perhaps allow to go on draw the interest

of the remainder.



thus, in reality, all the interest with which this story deal

converge towards one point: the fourteen thousand pound. Richard

Hardie's opposition be a mere misunderstanding; and if he have be tell

of the cash, and to what purpose Mrs. Dodd destine it, and then put on

board the _Agra_ in the Straits of Gaspar, he would have calmly take

off his coat, and help to defend the bearer of it against all assailant

as stoutly, and, to all appearance, imperturbably, as he have fight

that other bitter battle at home. for there be something heroic in this

err man, though his rectitude depend on circumstance.









CHAPTER IX



the way the pirate drop the mask, show his black tooth, and bore

up in chase, be terrible: so dilate and bound the sudden tiger on his

unwary prey. there be stout heart among the officer of the peaceable

_Agra_; but danger in a new form shake the brave, and this be their

first pirate: their dismay break out in ejaculation not loud but deep.

“hush,” say Dodd doggedly; “the lady!”



Mrs. Beresford have just come on deck to enjoy the balmy morning.



“Sharpe,” say Dodd, in a tone that convey no suspicion to the

new-comer, “set the royal and fly jib.--Port!”



“port it be,” cry the man at the helm.



“Steer due south!” and, with these word in his mouth, Dodd dive to the

gun-deck.



by this time elastic Sharpe have recover the first shock, and the order

to crowd sail on the ship gall his pride and his manhood. he mutter

indignantly, “the white feather!” this ease his mind, and he obey

order briskly as ever. while he and his hand be set every rag

the ship could carry on that tack, the other officer have unluckily

no order to execute, stand gloomy and helpless, with their eye glue,

by a sort of sombre fascination, on that come fate; and they literally

jump and jar when Mrs. Beresford, her heart open by the lovely

day, break in on their nerve with her light treble.



“what a sweet morning, gentleman! after all, a voyage be a delightful

thing. oh, what a splendid sea! and the very breeze be warm. ah! and

there's a little ship sail along: here, Freddy, Freddy darling, leave

off beat the sailor's leg, and come here and see this pretty ship.

what a pity it be so far off. ah! ah! what be that dreadful noise?”



for her horrible small talk, that grate on those anxious soul like the

mockery of some infantine fiend, be cut short by ponderous blow and

tremendous smashing below. it be the captain stave in water-cask:

the water pour out at the scupper.



“clear the lee gun,” say a middy, off his guard.



Colonel Kenealy prick up his ear, draw his cigar from his mouth, and

smell powder. “what, for action?” say he briskly. “where's the enemy?”



Fullalove make he a signal, and they go below.



Mrs. Beresford have not hear or not appreciate the remark: she prattle

on till she make the mate and midshipman shudder.



realise the situation, and the strange incongruity between the sense

and the mind in these poor fellow! the day have ripen its beauty;

beneath a purple heaven shine, sparkle, and laugh a blue sea, in

whose wave the tropical sun seem to have fuse his beam; and beneath

that fair, sinless, peaceful sky, waft by a balmy breeze over those

smile, transparent, golden wave, a bloodthirsty pirate bore down on

they with a crew of human tiger; and a lady babble babble babble babble

babble babble babble in their quivering ear.



but now the captain come bustle on deck, eye the loftier sail, see

they be draw well, appoint four midshipman a staff to convey his

order: give Bayliss charge of the carronade, Grey of the cutlass,

and direct Mr. Tickell to break the bad news gently to Mrs. Beresford,

and to take she below to the orlop deck; order the purser to serve out

beet biscuit, and grog to all hand, say, “man cann't work on an empty

stomach: and fighting be hard work;” then beckon the officer to come

round he. “gentleman,” say he, confidentially, “in crowd sail on

this ship I have no hope of escape that fellow on this tack, but I be,

and be, most anxious to gain the open sea, where I can square my yard

and run for it, if I see a chance. at present I shall carry on till he

come within range: and then, to keep the Company's canvas from be

shoot to rag, I shall shorten sail; and to save ship and cargo and all

our life, I shall fight while a plank of her swim. well be kill in

hot blood than walk the plank in cold.”



the officer cheer faintly; the captain's dog resolution stir up

theirs.



the pirate have gain another quarter of a mile and more. the ship's

crew be hard at their beef and grog, and agree among themselves it

be a comfortable ship. they guess what be come, and woe to the

ship in that hour if the captain have not win their respect. strange

to say, there be two gentleman in the _Agra_ to whom the pirate's

approach be not altogether unwelcome. Colonel Kenealy and Mr. Fullalove

be rival sportsman and rival theorist. Kenealy stand out for a

smooth bore and a four-ounce ball; fullalove for a rifle of his own

construction. many a doughty argument they have, and many a bragging

match; neither could convert the other. at last Fullalove hint that by

go ashore at the Cape, and get each behind a tree at one hundred

yard, and pop at one another, one or other would be convince.



“well, but,” say Kenealy, “if he be dead, he will be no wiser. besides,

to a fellow like I, who have have the luxury of pop at his enemy,

pop at a friend be poor insipid work.”



“that be true,” say the other regretfully. “but I reckon we shall never

settle it by argument.”



theorist be amazing; and it be plain, by the alacrity with which

these good creature load the rival instrument, that to they the

pirate come not so much as a pirate as a solution. indeed, Kenealy,

in the act of charge his piece, be hear to mutter, “now, this be

lucky.” however, these theorist be no soon load than something

occur to make they more serious. they be send for in haste to

Dodd's cabin; they find he give Sharpe a new order.



“shorten sail to the taupsle and jib, get the colour ready on the

halyard, and then send the man aft.”



Sharpe run out full of zeal, and tumble over Ramgolam, who be stoop

remarkably near the keyhole. Dodd hastily bolt the cabin-door, and

look with trembling lip and piteous earnestness in Kenealy's face and

Fullalove's. they be mute with surprise at a gaze so eloquent and yet

mysterious.



he man himself, and open his mind to they with deep emotion, yet

not without a certain simple dignity.



“Colonel,” say he, “you be an old friend; _you,_ sir, be a new one;

but I esteem you highly, and what my young gentleman chaff you about,

you call all man brother, and make that poor negro love you

instead of fear you, that show I you have a great heart. my dear

friend, I have be unlucky enough to bring my child's fortune on

board this ship: here it be under my shirt. fourteen thousand pound!

this weigh I down. oh, if they should lose it after all! do pray give

I a hand apiece and pledge your sacred word to take it home safe to my

wife at Barkington, if you, or either of you, should see this bright sun

set to-day, and I should not.”



“why, Dodd, old fellow,” say Kenealy cheerfully, “this be not the way

to go into action.”



“Colonel,” reply Dodd, “to save this ship and cargo, I must be

wherever the bullet be, and I will too.”



Fullalove, more sagacious than the worthy colonel, say

earnestly--“Captain Dodd, may I never see Broadway again, and never see

Heaven at the end of my time, if I fail you. there's my hand.”



“and mine,” say Kenealy warmly.



they all three join hand, and Dodd seem to cling to they. “God

bless you both! God bless you! oh, what a weight your true hand have

pull off my heart. good-bye, for a few minute. the time be short.

I'll just offer a prayer to the Almighty for wisdom, and then I'll

come up and say a word to the man and fight the ship, accord to my

light.”



Sail be no soon shorten and the crew range, than the captain come

briskly on deck, salute, jump on a carronade, and stand erect. he be

not the man to show the crew his foreboding.



(Pipe.) “silence fore and aft.”



“my man, the schooner come up on our weather quarter be a portuguese

pirate. his character be know; he scuttle all the ship he board,

dishonour the woman, and murder the crew. we crack on to get out of

the narrow, and now we have shorten sail to fight this blackguard,

and teach he to molest a british ship. I promise, in the Company's

name, twenty pound prize-money to every man before the mast if we beat

he off or out-manoeuvre he; thirty if we sink he; and forty if we tow

he astern into a friendly port. eight gun be clear below, three on

the weather side, five on the lee; for, if he know his business, he

will come up on the lee quarter: if he don't that be no fault of

your nor mine. the musket be all load, the cutlass ground like

razors----”



“Hurrah!”



“we have get woman to defend----”



“Hurrah!”



“a good ship under our foot, the God of justice overhead, british heart

in our bosom, and british colour fly--run 'em up!--over our head.”

 (the ship's colour fly up to the fore, and the Union Jack to the

mizen peak.) “now, lad, I mean to fight this ship while a plank of she

(stamp on the deck) swim beneath my foot, and--what do you say?”



the reply be a fierce “hurrah!” from a hundred throat, so loud, so

deep, so full of volume, it make the ship vibrate, and ring in the

creep-on pirate's ear. fierce, but cunning, he see mischief in those

shorten sail, and that Union Jack, the terror of his tribe, rise to

a british cheer; he lower his mainsail, and crawl up on the weather

quarter. arrive within a cable's length, he double-reef'ed his foresail

to reduce his rate of sailing nearly to that of the ship; and the next

moment a tongue of flame, and then a gush of smoke, issue from his lee

bow, and the ball fly scream like a seagull over the _Agra's_ mizen

top. he then put his helm up, and fire his other bow-chaser, and send

the shot hiss and skip on the water past the ship. this prologue

make the novice wince. Bayliss want to reply with a carronade; but

Dodd forbid he sternly, say, “if we keep he aloof we be do

for.”



the pirate draw nearer, and fire both gun in succession, hull the

_agra_ amidship, and send an eighteen-pound ball through her foresail.

Most of the face be pale on the quarter-deck; it be very try to

be shoot at, and hit, and make no return. the next double discharge

send one shot smash through the stern cabin window, and splinter the

bulwark with another, wound a seaman slightly.



“lie down FORWARD!” shout Dodd. “Bayliss, give he a shot.”



the carronade be fire with a tremendous report but no visible effect.

the pirate creep nearer, steer in and out like a snake to avoid the

carronade, and fire those two heavy gun alternately into the devoted

ship. he hull the _Agra_ now nearly every shot.



the two available carronade reply noisily, and jump as usual; they

send one thirty-two pound shot clean through the schooner's deck and

side; but that be literally all they do worth speak of.



“curse they!” cry Dodd; “load they with grape! they be not to be

trust with ball. and all my eighteen-pounder dumb! the coward willn't

come alongside and give they a chance.”



at the next discharge the pirate chip the mizen mast, and knock a

sailor into dead piece on the forecastle. Dodd put his helm down ere

the smoke clear, and get three carronade to bear, heavily laden with

grape. several pirate fall, dead or wound, on the crowded deck, and

some hole appear in the foresail; this one interchange be quite in

favour of the ship.



but the lesson make the enemy more cautious; he creep near, but

steer so adroitly, now right astern, now on the quarter, that the ship

could seldom bring more than one carronade to bear, while he rake she

fore and aft with grape and ball.



in this alarming situation, Dodd keep as many of the man below as

possible; but, for all he could do, four be kill and seven wound.



Fullalove's worth come too true: it be the swordfish and the whale:

it be a fight of hammer and anvil; one hit, the other make a noise.

cautious and cruel, the pirate hang on the poor hulking creature's

quarter and rake she at point-blank distance. he make she pass a

bitter time. and her captain! to see the splintering hull, the parting

shroud, the shiver gear, and hear the shriek and groan of his

wound; and he unable to reply in kind! the sweat of agony pour down

his face. oh, if he could but reach the open sea, and square his yard,

and make a long chase of it; perhaps fall in with aid. wince under

each heavy blow, he creep doggedly, patiently on towards that one

visible hope.



at last, when the ship be chove with shot, and pepper with grape,

the channel open; in five minute more he could put she dead before

the wind.



no! the pirate, on whose side luck have be from the first, get half

a broadside to bear at long musket-shot, kill a midshipman by Dodd's

side, cut away two of the _Agra_'s mizen shroud, wound the gaff,

and cut the jib-stay. down fall that powerful sail into the water, and

drag across the ship's forefoot, stop her way to the open sea she

pant for. the mate groan; the crew cheer stoutly, as british tar

do in any great disaster: the pirate yell with ferocious triumph,

like the devil they look.



but most human event, even calamitie, have two side. the _Agra_ be

bring almost to a standstill, the pirate forge ahead against his

will, and the combat take a new and terrible form. the elephant gun

pop and the rifle crack in the _Agra's_ mizen top, and the man

at the pirate's helm jump into the air and fall dead: both theorist

claim he. then the three carronade pepper he hotly; and he

hurl an iron shower back with fatal effect. then at last the long

eighteen-pounder on the gun-deck get a word in. the old Niler be not

the man to miss a vessel alongside in a quiet sea: he send two round

shot clean through he; the third splinter his bulwark and sweep

across his deck.



“his mast--fire at his mast!” roar Dodd to Monk, through his

trumpet. he then get the jib clear, and make what sail he could without

take all the hand from the gun.



this keep the vessel nearly alongside a few minute, and the fight be

hot as fire. the pirate now for the first time hoist his flag. it

be black as ink. his crew yell as it rise: the Britons, instead of

quailing, cheer with fierce derision; the pirate's wild crew of yellow

Malays, black chinless Papuans, and bronze Portuguese, serve their

side gun, twelve-pounder, well, and with ferocious cry. the white

Britons, drunk with battle now, naked to the waist, grime with powder,

and spot like leopard with blood, their and their mate', reply

with loud undaunted cheer and a deadly hail of grape from the

quarter-deck; while the master-gunner and his mate, load with a

rapidity the mixed race oppose could not rival, hull the schooner

well between wind and water, and then fire chain-shot at her mast, as

order, and begin to play the mischief with her shroud and rigging.

meantime, Fullalove and Kenealy, aid by Vespasian, who load, be

quietly butcher the pirate crew two a minute, and hope to settle the

question they be fight for: smooth bore _v._ rifle; but unluckily

neither fire once without kill; so “there be nothing prove.”



the pirate, bold as he be, get sick of fair fighting first. he hoist

his mainsail and throw rapidly ahead, with a slight bearing to windward,

and dismount a carronade and stove in the ship's quarter-boat, by way

of a parting kick.



the man hurl a contemptuous cheer after he; they think they have

beat he off. but Dodd know well. he be but retire a little way

to make a more deadly attack than ever: he would soon wear, and cross

the _Agra's_ defenceless bow, to rake she fore and aft at pistol-shot

distance; or grapple, and board the enfeeble ship, two hundred strong.



Dodd fly to the helm, and with his own hand put it hard a-weather, to

give the deck-gun one more chance, the last, of sink or disable

the Destroyer. as the ship obey, and a deck-gun bellow below he, he

see a vessel run out from Long Island, and come swiftly up on his

lee quarter.



it be a schooner. be she come to his aid?



Horror! a black flag float from her foremast head.



while Dodd's eye be stare almost out of his head at this deathblow

to hope, Monk fire again; and just then a pale face come close to

Dodd's, and a solemn voice whisper in his ear: “our ammunition be

nearly do!”



Dodd seize Sharpe's hand convulsively, and point to the pirate's

consort come up to finish they; and say, with the calm of a brave

man's despair, “cutlass! and die hard!”



at that moment the master-gunner fire his last gun. it send a

chain-shot on board the retire pirate, take off a portuguese head

and spin it clean into the sea ever so far to windward, and cut the

schooner's foremast so nearly through that it tremble and nod, and

presently snap with a loud crack, and come down like a broken tree,

with the yard and sail; the latter overlap the deck and bury

itself, black flag and all, in the sea; and there, in one moment, lay

the Destroyer buffeting and wriggling--like a heron on the water with

his long wing break--an utter cripple.



the victorious crew raise a stunning cheer.



“silence!” roar Dodd, with his trumpet. “all hand make sail!”



he set his course, bent a new jib, and stand out to windward close

haul, in hope to make a good offing, and then put his ship dead

before the wind, which be now rise to a stiff breeze. in do this

he cross the crippled pirate's bow, within eighty yard; and sore

be the temptation to rake he; but his ammunition be short, and his

danger be imminent from the other pirate, he have the self-command to

resist the great temptation.



he hail the mizen top: “can you two hinder they from fire that gun?”



“I rather think we can,” say Fullalove; “eh, Colonel?” and he tap

his long rifle.



the ship no soon cross the schooner's bow* than a Malay run forward

with a linstock. pop go the colonel's ready carbine, and the

Malay fall over dead, and the linstock fly out of his hand. a tall

Portuguese, with a movement of rage, snatch it up and dart to the

gun: the Yankee rifle crack, but a moment too late. Bang! go the

pirate's bow-chaser, and crash into the _Agra's_ side, and pass

nearly through she.



     *be disable, the schooner's head have come round to

     windward, though she be drift to leeward.



“Ye miss he! Ye miss he!” cry the rival theorist joyfully.

he be mistaken: the smoke clear, and there be the pirate captain

lean wound against the mainmast with a Yankee bullet in his

shoulder, and his crew utter yell of dismay and vengeance. they

jump, and rage, and brandish their knife, and make horrid

gesticulation of revenge; and the white eyeball of the malays and

Papuans glitter fiendishly; and the wound captain raise his sound

arm and have a signal hoist to his consort, and she bear up in chase,

and jam her fore lateen flat as a board, lie far near the wind

than the _Agra_ could, and sail three foot to her two beside. on

this superiority be make clear, the situation of the merchant vessel,

though not so utterly desperate as before Monk fire his lucky shot,

become pitiable enough. if she run before the wind, the fresh pirate

would cut she off: if she lay to windward, she might postpone the

inevitable and fatal collision with a foe as strong as that she have only

escape by a rare piece of luck; but this would give the cripple

pirate time to refit and unite to destroy she. add to this the fail

ammunition and the thin crew!



Dodd cast his eye all round the horizon for help.



the sea be blank.



the bright sun be hide now; drop of rain fall, and the wind be

begin to sing, and the sea to rise a little.



“gentleman,” say he, “let we kneel down and pray for wisdom, in this

sore strait.”



he and his officer kneel on the quarter-deck. when they rise, Dodd

stand rapt about a minute: his great thoughtful eye see no more the

enemy, the sea, nor anything external; it be turn inward. his

officer look at he in silence.



“Sharpe,” say he at last, “there _must_ be a way out of they both with

such a breeze as this be now; if we could but see it.”



“ay, _if,_” groan Sharpe.



Dodd muse again.



“about ship!” say he softly, like an absent man.



“ay, ay, sir!”



“Steer due north!” say he, still like one whose mind be elsewhere.



while the ship be come about, he give minute order to the mate

and the gunner, to ensure co-operation in the delicate and dangerous

manoeuvre that be sure to be at hand.



the wind be W.N.W: lie be stand north; one pirate lie on his lee

beam stop a leak between wind and water, and hack the deck clear

of his broken mast and yard. the other, fresh, and thirst for the

easy prey, come up to weather on he and hang on his quarter, pirate

fashion.



when they be distant about a cable's length, the fresh pirate, to meet

the ship's change of tactic, change his own, luff up, and give the

ship a broadside, well aim but not destructive, the gun be load

with ball.



Dodd, instead of reply immediately, put his helm hard up and run

under the pirate's stern, while he be jam up in the wind, and with

his five eighteen pounder rake he fore and aft, then pay off,

give he three carronade cram with grape and canister. the rapid

discharge of eight gun make the ship tremble, and envelop she in

thick smoke; loud shriek and groan be hear from the schooner: the

smoke clear; the pirate's mainsail hang on deck, his jib-boom be cut

off like a carrot and the sail struggle; his foresail look lace,

lane of dead and wound lie still or writhe on his deck, and his lee

scupper run blood into the sea. Dodd square his yard and bear away.



the ship rush down the wind, leave the schooner stagger and all

abroad. but for long; the pirate wear and fire his bow chaser at the

now fly _Agra_, split one of the carronade in two, and kill a

Lascar, and make a hole in the foresail. this do, he hoist his

mainsail again in a trice, send his wound below, fling his dead

overboard, to the horror of their foe, and come after the fly ship,

yawing and fire his bow chaser. the ship be silent. she have no shot

to throw away. not only do she take these blow like a coward, but all

sign of life disappear on she, except two man at the wheel and the

captain on the main gangway.



Dodd have order the crew out of the rigging, arm they with cutlass,

and lay they flat on the forecastle. he also compel Kenealy and

Fullalove to come down out of harm's way, no wiser on the smooth bore

question than they go up.



the great patient ship run environ by her foe; one destroyer right in

her course, another in her wake, follow she with yell of vengeance,

and pound away at she--but no reply.



suddenly the yell of the pirate on both side cease, and there be a

moment of dead silence on the sea.



yet nothing fresh have happen.



yes, this have happen: the pirate to windward and the pirate to

leeward of the _Agra_ have find out, at one and the same moment, that

the merchant captain they have lash, and bully, and torture be a

patient but tremendous man. it be not only to rake the fresh schooner

he have put his ship before the wind, but also by a double, daring,

masterstroke to hurl his monster ship bodily on the other. without a

foresail she could never get out of her way. the pirate crew have stop

the leak, and cut away and unship the broken foremast, and be

step a new one, when they see the huge ship bear down in full

sail. nothing easy than to slip out of her way could they get the

foresail to draw; but the time be short, the deadly intention manifest,

the come destruction swift.



after that solemn silence come a storm of cry and curse, as their

seaman go to work to fit the yard and raise the sail while their

fight man seize their matchlock and train the gun. they be

well command by an heroic able villain. Astern the consort thunder;

but the _Agra's_ response be a dead silence more awful than broadside.



for then be see with what majesty the endure Anglo-Saxon fight.



one of that indomitable race on the gangway, one at the foremast, two

at the wheel, con and steer the great ship down on a hundred

matchlock and a grinning broadside, just as they would have con and

steer she into a british harbour.



“Starboard!” say Dodd, in a deep calm voice, with a motion of his hand.



“Starboard it be.”



the pirate wriggle ahead a little. the man forward make a silent signal

to Dodd.



“Port!” say Dodd quietly.



“port it be.”



but at this critical moment the pirate astern send a mischievous shot

and knock one of the man to atom at the helm.



Dodd wave his hand without a word, and another man rise from the deck,

and take his place in silence, and lay his unshake hand on the wheel

stain with that man's warm blood whose place he take.



the high ship be now scarce sixty yard distant; _she seem to know:_

she rear her lofty figure-head with great awful shoot into the air.



but now the pant pirate get their new foresail hoist with a joyful

shout: it draw, the schooner gather way, and their furious consort

close on the _Agra's_ heel just then scourge her deck with grape.



“Port!” say Dodd calmly.



“port it be.”



the giant prow dart at the escaping pirate. that acre of come canvas

take the wind out of the swift schooner's foresail; it flap: oh, then

she be doom! that awful moment part the race on board she: the

Papuans and Sooloos, their black face livid and blue with horror,

leap yell into the sea, or crouch and whimper; the yellow

Malays and brown Portuguese, though blanch to one colour now, turn

on death like die panther, fire two cannon slap into the ship's

bow, and snap their musket and matchlock at their solitary

executioner on the ship's gangway, and out fly their knife like

crush wasp's sting. crash! the Indiaman's cutwater in thick smoke

beat in the schooner's broadside: down go her mast to leeward like

fishing-rod whip the water; there be a horrible shrieking yell;

wild form heap off on the _Agra_, and be hack to piece almost

ere they reach the deck--a surge, a chasm in the sea, fill with

an instant rush of engulphe wave, a long, awful, grating, grind

noise, never to be forget in this world, all along under the ship's

keel--and the fearful majestic monster pass on over the blank she

have make, with a pale crew stand silent and awestruck on her deck;

a cluster of wild head and stare eyeball bob like cork in her

foaming wake, sole relic of the blot-out Destroyer: and a wound man

staggering on the gangway, with hand uplifted and stare eye.



Shot in two place, the head and the breast!



with a loud cry of pity and dismay, Sharpe, Fullalove, Kenealy, and

other rush to catch he; but ere they get near, the captain of the

triumphant ship fall down on his hand and knee, his head sink over the

gangway, and his blood run fast and patter in the midst of they on the

deck he have defend so bravely.









CHAPTER x



they get to the wound captain and raise he: he revive a little;

and, the moment he catch sight of Mr. Sharpe, he clutch he, and

cry, “stunsel!”



“oh, captain,” say Sharpe, “let the ship go; it be you we be anxious

for now.”



at this Dodd lift up his hand and beat the air impatiently, and

cry again in the thin, querulous voice of' a wounded man, but eagerly,

“stunsels! stunsel!”



on this, Sharpe give the command.



“make sail. all hand set stunsel 'low and aloft!”



while the unwounde hand swarm into the rigging, the surgeon come aft

in all haste; but Dodd decline he till all his man should have be

look to: meantime he have himself carry to the poop and lay on a

mattress, his bleed head bind tight with a wet cambric handkerchief,

and his pale face turn towards the hostile schooner astern. she have

to hove to, and be pick up the survivor of her blot-out consort.

the group on the _Agra's_ quarter-deck watch she to see what she would

do next; flush with immediate success, the young officer crow

their fear she would not be game to attack they again. Dodd's fear run

the other way: he say, in the weak voice to which he be now reduce,

“they be take a wet blanket aboard; that crew of blackguard we

swamp willn't want any more of we: it all depend on the pirate captain:

if he be not drown, then blow wind, rise sea, or there's trouble ahead

for we.”



as soon as the schooner have pick up the last swimmer, she hoist

foresail, mainsail, and jib with admirable rapidity, and bear down in

chase.



the _Agra_ have, meantime, get a start of more than a mile, and be now

run before a stiff breeze with stud sail alow and aloft.



in an hour the vessel run nearly twelve mile, and the pirate have

gain half a mile.



at the end of the next hour they be out of sight of land, wind and sea

rise, and the pirate only a quarter of a mile astern.



the schooner be now rise and fall on the wave; the ship only

nodding, and firm as a rock.



“blow wind, rise sea!” falter Dodd.



another half-hour pass without perceptibly alter the position of

the vessel. then suddenly the wound captain lay aside his glass,

after a long examination, and rise unaided to his foot in great

excitement, and find his manly voice for a moment: he shake his fist

at the now pitch schooner and roar, “good-bye! ye Portuguese

lubber--outfought--outmanoeuvre--and outsail!”



it be a burst of exultation rare for he; he pay for it by sink

faint and helpless into his friend's arm; and the surgeon, return

soon after, insist on his be take to his cabin and keep quite

quiet.



as they be carry he below, the pirate captain make the same

discovery, that the ship be gain on he: he haul to the wind

directly and abandon the chase.





when the now recede pirate be nearly hull down, the sun begin to set.

Mr. Tickell look at he and say, “Hallo! old fellow, what be _you_

about? why, it ben't two o'clock.”



the remark be quite honest: he really fear, for a moment, that orb

be mistaken and would get himself--and other--into trouble. however,

the middy prove to be wrong, and the sun right to a minute: time fly

fast fighting.



Mrs. Beresford come on deck with brat and poodle: Fred, a destructive

child, clap his hand with glee at the hole in the canvas: Snap

toddle about smell the blood of the slain, and wag his tail by

half, perplexed. “well, gentleman,” say Mrs. Beresford, “I hope you

have make noise enough over one's head: and what a time you do take to

beat that little bit of a thing. Freddy, be quiet; you worry I; where

be your bearer? will anybody oblige I by find Ramgolam?”



“I will,” say Mr. Tickell hastily, and run off for the purpose; but he

return after some time with a long face. no Ramgolam to be find.



Fullalove refer she--with humour-twinkle eye--to Vespasian. “I have

a friend here who say he can tell you something about he.”



“can you, my good man?” inquire the lady, turn haughtily towards the

negro.



“Iss, Missy,” say Vespasian, show his white tooth in a broad grin,

“dis child know where to find dat ar niggar, widout he be and

absquatulate since.”



“then go and fetch he directly.”



Vespasian go off with an obedient start.



this annoyed Fullalove; interfere with his system: “Madam,” say he

gravely, “would you oblige I by bestow on my friend a portion

of that courtesy with which you favour I, and which become you so

gracefully?”



“certainly not,” reply Mrs. Beresford. “Mr. Fullalove, I be out of

patience with you: the idea of a sensible intelligent gentleman like you

call that creature your friend! and you an American, where they do

nothing but whip they from morning till night. who ever hear of

make friend with a black?--Now what be the meaning of this? I det

practical joke.” for the stalwart negro have return, bring a tall

bread-bag in his arm: he now set it up before she, remarking, “Dis yar

bag white outside, but he 'nation black inside.” to confirm his word,

he draw off the bag, and reveal Ramgolam, his black skin powder

with meal. the good-natured negro then blow the flour off his face, and

dust he a bit: the spectator laugh heartily, but Ramgolam never

move a muscle: not a morsel discompose at what would have make an

european miserably ashame, even in a pantomime--the caucasian darkie

retain all his dignity while the african one dust he; but, be

dust, he put on his obsequiousness, step forward, join his palm

together to Mrs. Beresford--like medieval knight and modern child at

their devotion--and address her thus:--



“daughter of light, he who bask in your beam say to himself, 'the

pirate be upon we, those child of blood, whom Sheitan their master

blast for ever! they will ravish the Queen of Sunshine and the ayah,

and throw the sahib and sailor into the sea; but, bread be the

staff of existence, these fox of the water will not harm it, but keep

it for their lawless appetite; therefore Ramgolam, son of Chittroo, son

of Soonarayan, will put the finger of silence on the lip of discretion,

and be bread in the day of adversity: the son of Sheitan will

peradventure return to dry land and close the eye of watchfulness; then

will I emerge like the sun from a cloud, and depart in peace.”



“oh, very well,” say Mrs. Beresford; “then you be an abominable

egotist, that be all, and a coward: and thank Heaven Freddy and I be

defend by English and Americans, and--hem!--their friend, and not by

Hindoos.” she add charmingly, “this show I my first word on come

here ought to have be to offer my warm thank to the brave man who

have defend I and my child;” and sweep they so queenly a curtesy,

that the man's hat and cap fly off in an instant “Mr. Black,” say

she, turn with a voice of honey to Vespasian, but aim obliquely

at Fullalove's heart, _“would_ you oblige I by kick that dog a

_little:_ he be always smell what do not belong to he--why, it be

blood; oh!” and she turn pale in a moment.



Sharpe think some excuse necessary. “you see, ma'am, we haven't have

time to clean the deck since.”



“it be the blood of man--of the poor fellow who have defend we so

nobly,” falter the lady, tremble visibly.



“well, ma'am,” say Sharpe, still half apologetically, “you know a ship

cann't fight all day long without an accident or two.” he add, with

nautical simplicity and love of cleanliness, “however, the deck will be

clean and holy-stone to-morrow, long before you turn out.”



Mrs. Beresford be too much overcome to explain how much deep her

emotion be than a dislike to stain floor. she turn faint, and on

get the well of that, go down to her cabin cry. Thence issue

a royal order that the wound be to have wine and every luxury they

could fancy, without limit or stint--at her expense.



the next day a deep gloom reign in the ship; the crew be range in

their Sunday clothe and bare-head; a grating be rig; Sharpe read

the burial service; and the dead, each man sew up in his hammock with

a 32-lb. shot, glide off the grating into the sea with a sullen plunge;

while their shipmate cry so that the tear drip on the deck.



with these regret for the slain, too violent to last, be mingle a

gloomy fear that Death have a heavy blow in store. the surgeon's

report of Captain Dodd be most alarming; he have become delirious about

midnight, and so continue.



Sharpe command the ship; and the rough sailor step like cat over

that part of the deck beneath which their unconscious captain lay. if

two man meet on the quarter-deck, a look of anxious, but not hopeful,

inquiry be sure to pass between they.



among the constant inquirer be Ramgolam. the grave Hindoo often

waylay the surgeon at the captain's door, to get the first intelligence

this mark sympathy with a hero in extremity be hardly expect from a

sage who at the first note of war's trumpet have vanish in a meal-bag.

however, it go down to his credit. one person, however, take a dark

view of this innocent circumstance but then that hostile critic be

Vespasian, a rival in matter of tint. he explode in one of those droll

rage darkie seem liable to: “Massa cunnel,” say he, “what for dat yar

niggar always prowl about the capn's door? what for he ask so many

stupid question? dat ole fox arter no good: he heart so black as um

skin: dam ole niggar!”



Fullalove suggest slily that a person with a dark skin might have a

grateful heart: and the colonel, who deal little in innuendo, say,

“come, don't you be so hard on jet, you ebony!”



“bery well, gemman,” reply vespasian ceremoniously, and with seem

acquiescence. then, with sudden ire, “because Goramighty make you white,

you tink you bery wise without any more trouble. Dat ar niggar be an

abominable egotisk.”



“pray what do that mean?” inquire Kenealy innocently.



“what he mean? what he mean? yah! yah!”



“yes. what do it mean?”



“what he mean? yah! what don't you hear Missy Besford miscall he an

abominable egotisk?”



“yes,” say Fullalove, wink to Kenealy; “but we don't know what it

mean. do you, sir?”



“Iss, sar. Dat ar expression he signify a darn old cuss dat say to

dis child, 'my lord Vespasium, take benevolence on your insidious slave,

and invest I in a bread-bag,' instead of fight for de lady like a

freenindependum citizen. now you two go fast asleep; dis child lie shut

one eye and open de oder bery wide open on dat ar niggar.” and with this

mysterious threat he stalk away.



his contempt for a black skin, his ebullition of unexpected ire, his

turgid pomposity, and love of long term, may make the reader smile; but

they could hardly amuse his friend just then; everything that touch

upon Dodd be too serious now. the surgeon sit up with he nearly all

night: in the daytime those two friend sit for hour in his cabin,

watch sadly, and silently moisten his burn brow and his parch

lip.



at length, one afternoon, there come a crisis, which take an

unfavourable turn. then the surgeon, speak confidentially to these

two staunch friend, inquire if they have ask themselves what should

be do with the body? “why I ask,” say he, “be because we be in

a very hot latitude; and if you wish to convey it to Barkington, the

measure ought to be take in time: in fact, within an hour or two after

death.”



the poor friend be shock and sicken by this horrible piece of

foresight. but Colonel Kenealy say, with tear, in his eye, that his

old friend should never be bury like a kitten.



“then you have well ask Sharpe to give I an order for a barrel of

spirit,” say the surgeon.



“yes, yes, for two if you like. oh, don't die, Dodd, my poor old fellow.

how shall I ever face his wife--I remember she, the lovely girl you

ever see--with such a tale as this? she will think it a cruel thing I

should come out of it without a scratch, and a ten time well man to

be dead: and so it be; it be cruel, it be unjust, it be monstrous; he

to be lie there, and we muff to be sit croak over he and

watch for his last breath like three cursed old raven.” and the

stout colonel groan aloud.



when the surgeon leave they, they fall naturally upon another topic, the

pledge they have give Dodd about the L. 14,000. they ascertain it

be upon he, next his skin; but it seem as unnecessary as it be

repugnant to remove it from his live person. they agree, however,

that instantly on his decease they would take possession of it, note the

particular, seal it up, and carry it to Mrs. Dodd, with such comfort

as they could hope to give she by relate the gallant act in which his

precious life be lose.



at 9 P.M. the surgeon take his place by Dodd's bedside; and the pair,

whom one thing after another have draw so close together, retire to

Kenealy's cabin.



many a merry chat they have have there, and many a gaseonade, be rival

hunter; but now they be together for physical companionship in sorrow

rather than for conversation. they smoke their cigar in moody silence,

and at midnight shake hand with a sigh and part. that sigh mean to

say that in the morning all would be over.



they turn in; but, ere either of they be asleep, suddenly the

captain's cabin seem to fill with roar and shriek of wild beast,

that make the whole ship ring in the silent night the savage cry be

answer on deck by shout of dismay and many pattering foot make

for the companion ladder; but the near person to the cabin, and the

first to reach it, be Kenealy and Fullalove, who burst in, the

former with a draw sword, the latter with a revolver, both in their

nightgown; and there see a sight that take their breath away.



the surgeon be not there; and two black man, one with a knife, and one

with his bare claw, be fight and struggle and trample all over

the cabin at once, and the die man sit up in his cot, pale, and

glare at they.









CHAPTER XI



the two supple dusky form go whirl so fast, there be no grasp

they to part they. but presently the negro seize the Hindoo by the

throat; the Hindoo just prick he in the arm with his knife, and the

next moment his own head be drive against the side of the cabin with a

stunning crack, and there he be, pin, and wriggling, and bluish with

fright, whereas the other swart face close against his be dark-grey

with rage, and its two fireball of eye roll fearfully, as none but

african eye can roll.



Fullalove pacify he by voice and touch; he withdraw his iron grasp

with sullen and linger reluctance, and glare like a disappoint

mastiff: the cabin be now full, and Sharpe be for put both the

black in iron. no splitter of hair be he. but Fullalove suggest

there might be a moral distinction between thing that look equally

dark to the eye.



“well, then, speak quick, both of you,” say Sharpe, “or I'll lay ye

both by the heel. ye black scoundrel, what business have you in the

captain's cabin, kick up the devil's delight?”



thus threaten, Vespasian pant out his tale; he have discover this

nigger, as he persist in call the Hindoo, eternally prowl about

the good captain's door, and ask stupid question: he have watch

he, and, on the surgeon come out with the good news that the captain

be well, in have crawl “this yar abominable egotisk.” and he raise

a ponderous fist to point the polysyllable: with this aid the sarcasm

would doubtless have be crush; but Fullalove hang on the sable

orator's arm, and tell he drily to try and speak without gesticulate.

“the darned old cuss,” say Vespasian, with a pathetic sigh at not

be let hit he. he resume and tell how he have follow the Hindoo

stealthily, and find he with a knife uplifted over the captain--a

tremor run through all present--rob he. at this a loud murmur

fill the room; a very ugly one, the sort of snarl with which dog fly

at dog' throat with their tooth, and man fly at man's throat with a

cord.



“be quiet,” say Sharpe imperiously. “I'll have no lynching in a vessel

I command. now then, you, sir, how do you know he be rob the

captain?”



“how do I know! yah! yah! Cap'n, if you please you tell dis unskeptical

gemman whether you don't miss a lilly book out of your bosom!”



during this extraordinary scene, Dodd have be look from one speaker

to another in great surprise and some confusion; but at the negro's

direct appeal, his hand go to his breast and clutch it with a feeble

but heartrende cry.



“oh, he not go far. yah! yah!” and Vespasian stoop, and take up an

oilskin packet off the floor, and lay it on the bed. “Dis child see

he in dat ar niggar's hand, and hear he go whack on de floor.”



Dodd hurry the packet into his bosom, then turn all gratitude to

his sable friend: “now God bless you! God bless you! give I your honest

hand! you don't know what you have do for I and mine.”



and, sick as he be, he wring Vespasian's hand with convulsive strength,

and would not part with it. vespasian pat he soothingly all over,

and whimper out: “Nebber you mind, cap'n! you bery good man: this

child bery fond of you a long time ago. you bery good man, outrageous

good man! dam good man! I propose your health: invalesee directly!”



while Dodd be speak, the other be silent out of respect; but

now Sharpe break in, and, with the national desire to hear both side,

call on Ramgolam for his version. the Hindoo be now stand with his

arm cross on his breast, look all the martyr, meek and dignified.

he inquire of Sharpe, in very broken English, whether he speak

Hindostanee.



“not I: nor don't act it neither,” say Sharpe.



at this confession Ramgolam look down on he with pity and mild

contempt.



Mr. Tickell be put forward as interpreter.



_Ramgolam (in Hindostanee)._ he whom destiny, too strong for mortal,

now oppress with iron hand and feed with the bread of affliction----



_Mr. Tickell (translating)._ he who by bad luck have get into trouble----



_Ramgolam._ have long observe the virtue that embellish the commander

of this ship resemble a mountain, and desire to imitate them----



_Tickell._ see what a good man the captain be, and want to be like

him----



_vespasian._ the darn old cuss.



_Ramgolam._ see he often convey his hand to his bosom, I ascribe

his unparalleled excellence to the possession of some sovereign

talisman. (Tickell manage to translate this sentence all but the

word talisman, which he render--with all a translator's

caution--“article.”) find he about to depart to the region of

the bless, where such auxiliary be not need, and be eager to

emulate his perfection here below, I come softly to the place where he

lay----



_Tickell._ when I see he go to slip his cable, I want to be as

good a fellow as he be, so I creep alongside----



_Ramgolam._ and gently, and without force, make myself proprietor of the

amulet and inheritor of a good man's qualities----



_Tickell._ and quietly bone the article, and the captain's virtue. I

don't know what the beggar mean.



_Ramgolam._ then a traitor with a dark skin, but darker soul----



_Tickell._ then another black-hearted nigger----



_Ramgolam._ come furiously and misappropriate the charm thus piously

obtained----



_Tickell._ ran in and steal it from I.



_Ramgolam._ and bereft I of the excellence I be inherit: and--



here Sharpe interrupt the dialogue by put the misappropriator

of other man's virtue in iron, and the surgeon insist on the cabin

be clear. but Dodd would not part with the three friend yet;

he beg they to watch he, and see nobody else come to take his

child's fortune.



“I'll sink or swim with it; but oh! I doubt we shall have no luck while

it be aboard I. I never have a pirate alongside before, in all

these year. what be this?--here's something in it now--something

hard--something heavy: and--why, it's a bullet!”



on this announcement, an eager inspection take place: and, sure enough,

a bullet have pass through Dodd's coat and waistcoat, &c., and through

the oilskin and the leather pocketbook, and just dent the “hard cash;”

 no more.



there be a shower of comment and congratulation.



the effect of this discovery on the sick man's spirit be remarkable.

“I be a villain to belie it,” say he. “it be my wife's and my

child's, and it have save my life for they.”



he kiss it and place it in his bosom, and soon after sink into a

peaceful slumber. the excitement have not the ill effect the surgeon

fear: it somewhat exhaust he, and he sleep long; but on awakening,

be pronounce out of danger. to tell the truth, the tide have turn

in his favour overnight, and it be to convey the good news on deck the

surgeon have leave he.





while Dodd be recover, the _Agra_ be beat westward with light

but contrary wind, and a good month elapse without any incident

affect the Hard Cash, whose singular adventure I have to record. in

this dearth, please put up with a little characteristic trifle, which

do happen one moonlight night. Mr. Fullalove lie coil below deck in

deep abstraction meditate a patent; and be in shadow and silent, he

see Vespasian in the moonlight creep on all four like a guilty

thing into the bedroom of Colonel Kenealy, then fast asleep. a horrible

suspicion thrill through Fullalove: a suspicion he wait grimly to

verify.



the transatlantic Mixture, Fullalove, be not merely an inventor, a

philanthrope, a warrior, a preacher, a hunter, a swimmer, a fiddler, a

sharp fellow, a good fellow, a Puritan, and a Bohemian; he be also a

Theorist: and his theory, which dub we



     the AFRICAN theory,



have two branch. 1. that the race of man start equal; but accident

upon accident have walk some tribe up a ladder of civilisation, and

kick other down it, and leave other, stand at the foot.



2. that the good work of century could be do, at a pinch, in a few

generation, by artificial condensation of the favourable circumstance.

for instance, secure this worker in Ebony 150 year' life, and he would

sign a penal bond to produce Negroes of the fourth descent equal in mind

to the good contemporary white. “you can breed brain,” say he, “under

any skin, as inevitably as Fat. it take time and the right crosse; but

so do Fat--or rather it do; for Fat be an institution now.” and here

our Republican must have a slap at throne. “Compare,” say he, “the

opportunity of these distinguished Gentlemen and Ladies with their

act. their seat have be high, but their mind low, I swan. they have

be breeder for age, and know the two rudiment of the science;

have cross and cross for grenadier, racehorse, poultry, and

prize-bullock; and breed in and in for fool; but which of they have ever

aspire to breed a Newton, a Pascal, a Shakespeare, a Solon, a Raphael?

yet all these be result to be obtain by the right crosse, as

surely as a swift horse or a circular sow. now fancy breeding shorthorn

when you might breed long head.” so Vespasian be to engender Young

Africa; he be to be first elevate morally and intellectually as high

as he would go, and then set to breed; his partner, of course, to be

elect by Fullalove, and educate as high as she would consent to

without an illicit connection with the experimentalist. he would be down

on their pickaninny before the parent could transfer the remnant of

their own weakness to they, polysyllable include, and would polish

these ebony chip; and at the next cross reckon to rear a genius, by

which time, as near as he could calculate, he the Theorist would be in

his dotage: and all the well; make a curious contrast in favour of

Young Africa.



Vespasian could not hit a barn door sit--with a rifle! it be purely

with a view to his moral improvement mind you, that Fullalove invite

he into the mizentop to fight the pirate. the Patient come gingerly and

shiver there with fear. but five minute elapse, and he not kill,

that weakness give way to a jocund recklessness; and he keep they all

gay with his quaint remark, of which I must record but one. when they

cross the stern of the pirate, the distance be so small that the

face of that motley crew be plainly visible. now, Vespasian be a

merciless critic of coloured skin. “Wal,” say he, turn up his nose

sky-high, “dis child never see such a mixallaneous biling 'o darkie

as this yar; why darn ef there ben't every colour in the rainbow,

from the ace of spade, down to the fine dissolve view.” this amazing

description, couple with his look of affront and disgust, make the

white man roar; for man fight for their life have a great tendency

to laugh than one would think possible. Fullalove be proud of the

critic, and for a while lost sight of the pirate in his theory; which

also may seem strange. but your true theorist be a man apart: he can

withdraw into himself under difficulty. what say one of the breed two

thousand year ago?



    “medium inter praelia semper

     Sideribus coelique plagis Superisque vacavi.”



“oh, the great african heart!” say Fullalove after the battle. “by my

side he fear no danger. of all man, negro be the most capable of

friendship; their affection be a mine: and we have only work it with

the lash; and that be a ridiculous mining tool, I rather think.”



when Vespasian come out so strong _versus_ Ramgolam, Fullalove be

even more triumphant: for after all it be not so much the heart as the

intelligence of the negro we albiculi affect to doubt.



“oh, the great african intellect!” say Fullalove publicly, take the

bull by the horn.



“I know,” say Mrs. Beresford maliciously; “it be down in the map as

the great African Desert.”



to balance his many excellence Vespasian have an infirmity. this be

an ungovernable itch for brush white. if he be talk with one of

that always admire, and now beloved, race, and see a speck of dirt

on he, he would brush he unobtrusively, but effectually, in full

dialogue: he would steal behind a knot of white and brush whoever

need it, however little. Fullalove remonstrate, but in vain; on this

one point Instinct would not yield to Reason. he could not keep his

hand off a dusty white. he would have die of the Miller of Dee. but

the bad be he do not stop at clothe; he loathe ill-black shoe.

Woe to all foot-leather that do not shine; his own skin furnish a

perilous standard of comparison. he be eternally black boot _en

amateur._ Fullalove get in a rage at this, and insist on his letting

his fellow-creature' leather alone. Vespasian plead hard, especially

for leave to black Colonel Kenealy. “the cunnell,” say he pathetically,

“be such a tarnation fine gentleman spoilt for want of a lilly bit of

black.” Fullalove reply that the colonel have get a servant whose

mission it be to black his shoe. this simply amuse Vespasian. “a

servant?” say he. “yah! yah! what be the use of white servant? they

be not biddable. Massa Fullalove, sar, Goramighty he rear all white

man to kick up a dust, white servant inspecially, and the darkie to

brush 'em; and likewise additionally to make their boot she a lilly

bit.” he conclude with a dark hint that the colonel's white servant's

own shoe, though well black than his master's, be anything but

mirror, and that this child have his eye on they.





the black desperado emerge on tiptoe from Kenealy's cabin, just as

Macbeth do from the murder Duncan's chamber: only with a pair of

boot in his hand instead of a pair of dagger; get into the moonlight,

and find himself uninterrupte, assume the whistle of innocence, and

polish they to the nine, chuckle audibly.



Fullalove watch he with an eye like a rattlesnake, but keep quiet. he

see interference would only demoralise he worse: for it be more ignoble

to black boot clandestinely, than bravely; man ditto.



he relieve his heart with idiom. “darn the critter, he's fix my

flint eternally. now I cave. I swan to man. I may just hang up my

fiddle; for this darkie's too hard a row to hoe.”



it be but a momentary dejection. the Mixture be _(inter alia)_ a

Theorist and an Anglo-Saxon; two indomitable. he conclude to temporise

with the Brush, and breed it out.



“I'm bind to cross the obsequious cuss with the catawamptious gal in

Guinea, and one that never see a blacking bottle, not even in a dream.”

 _Majora canamus._



be now about a hundred mile south of the Mauritius, in fine weather

with a light breeze, Dodd's marine barometer begin to fall steadily; and

by the afternoon the declension have become so remarkable, that he feel

uneasy, and, somewhat to the surprise of the crew,--for there be now

scarce a breath of air,--furled his slight sail, treble reef his

topsail, have his top-gallant and royal yard and gaff topsail bent on

deck, get his fly jib-boom in, &c., and make the ship snug.



Kenealy ask he what be the matter?



“Barometer go down; moon at the full; and Jonah aboard,” be the

reply, utter doggedly.



Kenealy assure he it be a beautiful evening, precursor of a fine day.

“see how red the sunset be.



    'evening red and morning grey

     be the sure sign of a fine day.'”



Dodd look, and shake his head. the sun be red, but the wrong red: an

angry red: and, as he dip into the wave, discharge a lurid coppery

hue that rush in a moment like an embodied menace over the entire

heaven. the wind cease altogether: and in the middle of an unnatural

and suspicious calm the glass go down, down, down.



the moon rise, and instantly all eye be bent on she with suspicion;

for in this latitude the hurricane generally come at the full moon. she

be tolerably clear, however; but a light scud sailing across her disc

show there be wind in the upper region.



Dodd trust to science; bar the lee-port, and have the dead light

put into the stem cabin and secure: then turn in for an hour's sleep.



Science prove a prophet. just at seven bell, in one moment like a

thunderbolt from the sky, a heavy squall strike the ship. under a less

careful captain her lee-port would have be open, and she might have

go to the bottom like a bullet.



“let go the main sheet!” roar Sharpe hastily to a hand he have place

there on purpose. he let go, and there be the sail flap like

thunder, and the sheet lash everything in the most dangerous way.

Dodd be on deck in a moment “helm hard up! hand shorten sail!”



(Pipe.) “all hand furl sail, ahoy!”



up tumble the crew, go cheerily to work, and by three bell in the

middle watch have haul up what be leave of the shiver mainsail, and

hove the ship to under close-reef main topsail and storm stay-sail;

and so the voyage be suspend.



a heavy sea get up under a scourging wind, that rise and rise, till the

_Agra_, under the pressure of that single sail treble reef, heel

over so as to dip her lee channel. this go on till the wave roll

so high, and the squall be so bitter, that sheet of water be

actually tear off their crest and launch incessantly on deck, not

only drench Dodd and his officer, which they do not mind, but

threaten to flood the ship.



Dodd batten down the hatch and stop that game.



then come a danger no skill could avert: the ship lurch so violently

now, as not merely to clip, but bury, her low deck port-pendent: and

so a good deal of water find ingress through the windage. then Dodd set

a gang to the pump: for, he say, “we can hardly hope to weather

this out without ship a sea: and I willn't have water come in upon

water.”



and now the wind, rage and roar like discharge of artillery,

and not like wind as know in our sea, seem to have put out all

the light of heaven. the sky be inky black, and quite close to their

head: and the wind still increase, the vessel come down to her

extreme bearing, and it be plain she would soon be on her beam end.

Sharpe and Dodd meet, and hold on by the life-line, apply their

speak trumpet tight to each other's ear; and even then they have to

bawl.



“she cann't carry a rag much long.”



“no, sir; not half an hour.”



“can we furl that main taupsle?”



Sharpe shake his head. “the first moment we start a sheet, the sail will

whip the mast out of she.”



“you be right well, then, I'll cut it away.”



“volunteer, sir?”



“ay, twelve: no more. send they to my cabin.”



Sharpe's difficulty be to keep the man back, so eager be the fine

fellow to risk their life. however, he bring twelve to the cabin,

head by Mr. Grey, who have a right, as captain of the watch, to go with

they; on which right he insist, in spite of Dodd's earnest request

that he would forego it. when Dodd see his resolution, he drop the

friend and resume the captain; and speak to they through a trumpet; the

first time he have ever use one in a cabin, or see one use.



“Mr. Grey and man, go aloft to save the mainmast by cut the sail

away.”



“ay, ay, sir!”



“service of danger, great danger!”



“Hurrah!”



“but great danger can be make small by work the right way. attend!

lay out all on the yard, and take your time from one man at the lee

yard-arm: don't know who that will be; but one of the smart man in

the ship. order to _he_ be: hold his knife hand well up; rest to see!

and then in knife altogether: mind and cut from you, and below the reef

band; and then I hope to see all come down alive.”



Mr. Grey and his twelve man leave the cabin: and hey! for the main top.

the man let the officer lead they as far as Jacob's ladder, and then

hurrah for the lee yard-arm! that be where all want to be, and but

one could be. Grey be as anxious as the rest; but officer of his rank

seldom go aloft, and soon fall out of their catlike habit. he have do

about six ratline, when, instead of go hand over head, he spread

his arm to seize a shroud on each side of he: by this he weaken his

leverage, and the wind just then come fiercer, catch he, and flatten

he against the rigging as tight as if Nature have catch up a mountain

for a hammer and nail he with a cedar; he be spread-eagle. the

man accept he at once as a new patent ratline with a fine resist

power: they go up he, and bound three ordinary ratline at a go off

all his promontory, especially his shoulder and his head, receive

his compliment in the shape of hearty curse. they gain the top and

lay out on the yard with their hair fly like streamer: and who get

the place of honour but Thompson, the jolly fore-topman who couldn't

stand smoke pea-soup. so strong and so weak be man.



Thompson raise his knife high; there be a pause: then in go all

their knife, and away go the sail into the night of the storm, and

soon seem a sheet of writing-paper, and more likely to hit the sky

than the sea. the man come down, pick their officer off the rigging,

have a dram in the captain's cabin, and see he enter their name in the

log-book for good service, and in the purser's for extra grog on sunday

from there to gravesend.



the ship be relieve; and all look well till the chronometer, their

only guide now, announce sunset: when the wind, incredible as it may

appear, increase, and one frightful squall dip the muzzle of the

lee carronade in the water.



then be hear the first cry of distress: an appalling sound; the wail

of brave man. and they have bear it all so bravely, so cheerfully, till

now. but now they know something must go, or else the ship; the suspense

be awful, but very short. crack! crash! the fore and main topmast both

go short off by the cap; and the ship recover slowly, hesitatingly,

tremblingly.



relieve she from one danger, this subject she to another and a

terrible one. the heavy spar that have fall, unable to break loose

from the rigging, pound the ship so savagely as to threaten to stave

in her side. add to this that, with labour so long and severely, some

of the ship's seam begin now to open and shut and discharge the oakum,

which be terrible to the brave seaman. yet neither this stout captain

nor his crew shirk any danger man have ever grapple with since man

be. Dodd order they to cut away the wreck to leeward; it be do:

then to windward; this, the more ticklish operation, be also do

smartly: the wreck pass under the ship's quarter, and she drift

clear of it they breathe again.



at eight bell in the first watch it begin to thunder and lighten

furiously; but the thunder, though close, be quite inaudible in the

tremendous uproar of the wind and sea. it blow a hurricane: there be

no more squall now; but one continuous tornado, which in its passage

through that great gaunt skeleton, the ship's rigging and bare pole,

howl and yell and roar so terrifically, as would have silence

a salvo of artillery fire alongside. the overwhelming sea run in dark

watery mountain crest with devilish fire. the inky blackness add

supernatural horror; the wrath of the Almighty seem upon they; and his

hand to drop the black sky down on they for their funeral pall. surely

Noah from his ark see nothing more terrible.



what be that? close on the lee bow: choose: the flash of a gun, another;

another; another. a ship in distress fire minute-gun in their ear;

yet no sound: human thunder silence, as God's thunder be silence, by

the uproar of his great creature in their mad rage. the _Agra_ fire

two minute-gun to let the other poor ship know she have a companion in

her helplessness and her distress, and probably a companion in her fate.

even this companionship add its mite of danger: for both ship be

mere plaything of the element; they might be toss together; and

then, what would be their fate? two egg clash together in a great

boiling caldron, and all the life spill out.



yet do each flash shoot a ray of humanity and sympathy into the thick

black supernatural horror.



and now come calamity upon calamity. a tremendous sea break the tiller

at the rudder-head, and not only be the ship in danger of fall off

and ship the sea, but the rudder hammer she awfully, and bade fair

to stave in her counter, which be another word for Destruction. thus

death come at they with two hand open at once.



these vessel always carry a spare tiller: they try to ship it;

but the difficulty be prodigious. no light but the miserable

deck-lantern--one glowworm in Egypt supernaturally darken--the _Agra_

never on an even keel, and heel over like a seesaw more than a ship;

and then every time they do place the tiller, and get the strain on

with their luff tackle, the awful sea give it a blow and knock it

away like a hair.



at last they hit it off, or think they have, for the ponderous thump

of the rudder cease entirely. however, the ship do not obey this new

tiller like the old one: her head fall off in an unlucky moment when

seven wave be roll in one, and, on come to the windward again,

she ship a sea. it come in over her bow transversely; break as high

as the mainstay, and hide and bury the whole ship before the mast;

carry away the waist bulwark on both side, fill the launch, and

drown the live stock which be in it; sweep four water-butt and

three man away into the sea, like cork and straw; and send ton of

water down the forescuttle and main hatchway, which be partly open,

not to stifle the crew, and flood the gun-deck ankle-deep.



Dodd, who be in his cabin, send the whole crew to the pump, except the

man at the wheel, and prepare for the bad.



in man so brave as he be, when Hope die Fear die. his chief care

now be to separate the fate of those he love from his own. he take a

bottle, insert the fatal money in it with a few word of love to his

wife, and of direction to any stranger that should fall in with it;

secure the cork with melt sealing-wax, tie oilskin over it and

melt wax on that; apply a preparation to the glass to close the

pore; and to protect it against other accident, and attract attention,

fasten a black paint bladder to it by a stout tar twine, and

paint _“Agra_, lose at sea,” in white on the bladder. he have log

each main incident of the storm with that curt business-like accuracy

which read so cold and small a record of these great and terrible

tragedy. he now make a final entry a little more in character with the

situation:



“about eight bell in the morning watch ship a heavy sea forward. the

rudder be now damage, and the ship hardly manageable, bring the

log and case on check, expect to founder shortly. Sun and moon hide

this two day, and no observation possible; but by calculation of wind

and current, we should be about fifty mile to the southward of the

Mauritius. God's will be do.”



he get on deck with the bottle in his pocket and the bladder peep

out: put the log and its case down on deck, and by mean of the

life-line crawl along on his knee, and with great difficulty, to the

wheel. find the man could hardly hold on, and dread another sea,

Dodd, with his own hand, lash they to the helm.



while thus employ, he feel the ship give a slight roll, a very slight

roll to windward. his experienced eye lighten with hope, he cast his

eager glance to leeward. there it be a sailor look for the first

spark of hope. ay, thereaway be a little gleam of light. he pat the

helmsman on the shoulder and point to it; for now neither could one

man speak for the wind, nor another hear. the sailor nod joyfully.



presently the continuous tornado break into squall.



Hope grow bright.



but, unfortunately, in one furious squall the ship break round off, so

as to present her quarter to the sea at an unlucky moment: for it come

seven deep again, a roar mountain, and hurl itself over her stern

and quarter. the mighty mass strike her stem frame with the weight of a

hundred thousand ton of water, and drive she forward as a boy launch

his toy-boat on a pond; and though she make so little resistance,

stove in the dead light and the port frame, burst through the cabin

bulkhead, and wash out all the furniture, and Colonel Kenealy in his

nightgown with a table in his arm bear on water three foot deep, and

carry he under the poop awning away to the lee quarter-deck scupper,

and flood the low deck. above, it sweep the quarter-deck clean of

everything except the shriek helmsman; wash Dodd away like a cork,

and would have carry he overboard if he have not bring up against

the mainmast and grasp it like grim death, half drown, half stun,

sorely bruise, and gasp like a porpoise ashore.



he hold on by the mast in water and foam, panting. he roll his

despair eye around; the bulwark fore and aft be all in ruin,

with wide chasm, as between the battlement of some decay castle; and

through the gap he see the sea yawning wide for he. he dare not move:

no man be safe a moment unless lash to mast or helm. he hold on,

expect death. but presently it strike he he could see much far

than before. he look up: it be clear overhead, and the uproar

abate visibly. and now the wind do not decline as after a gale:

extraordinary to the last, it blow itself out.



Sharpe come on deck, and crawl on all four to his captain, and help

he to a life-line. he hold on by it, and give his order. the wind be

blow out, but the sea be as dangerous as ever. the ship begin to roll

to windward. if that be not stop, her fate be seal. Dodd have the

main trysail set and then the fore trysail, before he would yield to go

below, though drench, and sore, and hungry, and wear out. those sail

steady the ship; the sea begin to go down by degree; the celestial

part of nature be more generous: away fly every cloud, out come the

heavenly sky bluer and lovely than ever they have see it; the sun

flame in its centre. nature, after three day' eclipse, be so lovely,

it seem a new heaven and a new earth. if there be an infidel on

board who do not believe in God, now his soul feel he, in spite of the

poor little head. as for Dodd, who be naturally pious, he raise his

eye towards that lovely sky in heartfelt, though silent, gratitude

to its Maker for save the ship and cargo and her people's life, not

forget the private treasure he be carry home to his dear wife

and child.



with this thought, he naturally look down, but miss the bladder that

have lately protrude from his pocket he clap his hand to his pocket

all in a flutter. the bottle be go. in a fever of alarm and anxiety,

but with good hope of find it, he search the deck; he look in

every cranny, behind every coil of rope the sea have not carry away.



in vain.



the sea, act on the buoyant bladder attach, have clearly tear the

bottle out of his pocket, when it wash he against the mast. his

treasure then must have be drive much far; and how far? who could

tell?



it flash on the poor man with fearful distinctness that it must either

have be pick up by somebody in the ship ere now, or else carry out

to sea.



strict inquiry be make amongst the man.



no one have see it



the fruit of his toil and prudence, the treasure love, not Avarice, have

twine with his heartstring, be go. in its defence he have defeat

two pirate, each his superior in force; and now conquer the element

at their maddest. and in the very moment of that great victory--it be

go.









CHAPTER XII



in the narrative of home event I skip a little business, not quite

colourless, but irrelevant to the love passage then on hand. it have,

however, a connection with the curious event now converge to a point:

so, with the reader's permission, I will place it in logical sequence,

disregard the order of time. the day Dr. Sampson splash among

the duck, and one of they hide till dinner, the rest be seat at

luncheon, when two patient be announce as wait--Mr. and Mrs.

Maxley. Sampson refuse to see they, on this ground: “I will not feed

and heal.” but Mrs. Dodd intercede, and he yield. “well, then, show

they in here. they be well cracter than pashint.” on this, a

stout fresh-coloured woman, the picture of health, be usher in and

curtsey all round. “well, what be the matter now?” inquire Sampson

rather roughly. “be seat, Mrs. Maxley,” say Mrs. Dodd, benignly.



“I thank ye kindly, ma'am;” and she sit down. “doctor, it be that pain.”



“well, don't say 'that pain.' describe it. now listen all of ye; ye're

goen to get a clinical lecture.”



“if _you_ please, ma'am,” say the patient, “it take I here under

my left bre, and run right to my elbow, it do; and bitter bad 'tis

while it do last; choke I mostly; and I feel as I must die: and if I

be to move hand or fut, I think I _should_ die, that I do.”



“poor woman!” say Mrs. Dodd.



“oh, she ben't dead yet,” cry Sampson cheerfully. “she'll sell addled

egg over all our tombstone; that be to say, if she mind what I bid

she. when be your last spasm?”



“no long agone that yestereen, ma'am; and so I say to my master, 'the

doctor he be due to-morrow, Sally up at Albion tell I; and----'”



“Whist! whist! who care what you say to Jack, and Jill say to you?

what be the cause?”



“the cause! what, of my pain? he say, 'what be the cause?'”



“ay, the cause. just obsairve, jintleman,” say Sampson, address

imaginary student, “how startled they all be if a docker deviate from

profissional habit into sceince, and take the right eend of the stick

for once b' asking for the cause.”



“the cause be the will of God, I do suppose,” say Mrs. Maxley.



“Stuff!” shout Sampson angrily. “then why come to mortal I to cure

you?”



Alfred put in his oar. “he do not mean the 'final cause;' he mean the

'proximate cause.



“my poor dear creature, I bain't no Latiner,” object the patient.



Sampson fix his eye sternly on the slippery dame. “what I want to

know be, have you be run up-stair? or eat fast? or drink

fast? or grizzle over twopence? or quarrel with your husband! come

now, which be it?”



“I quarrel with my man! we haven't never be disagreeable, not once,

since we go to church a pair and come back a couple. I don't say but

what we mayn't have have a word or two at odd time, as married folk

will.”



“and the last time you have a word or two--y' infairnal quibbler--be it

just before your last spasm, eh?”



“well, it might; I be not gainsay that: but you say quarrel, say

you. 'Quarrel' it be your word; and I defy all Barkton, gentle and

simple, to say as how I and my master----”



“Whisht! whisht! now, jintleman, ye see what the great come

sceince--the sceince of Healing--have to contind with. the dox be all

fool, but one: and the pashint be lyre, ivery man Jack. N' listen

I; y' have get a disease that you cann't eradicate; but you may muzzle

it for year, and die of something quite different when your time's up.”



“like enough, sir. if _you_ please, ma'am, Dr. Stephenson do blame my

indigestion for it.”



“Dr. Stephenson's an ass.”



“dear heart, how cantankerous you be. to be sure Dr. Osmond he say no:

it's muscular, say he.”



“Dr. Osmond's an ijjit. list I; you mustn't grizzle about money; you

mustn't gobble, nor drink your beer too fast.”



“you be wrong, doctor; I never drink no beer: it costs----”



“your catlap, then. and above all, no grizzling! go to church whenever

you can without lose a farthing. it's medicinal; soothe the brain,

and take it off worldly care. and have no word with your husband, or

he'll outlive you; it's his only chance of get the last word. care

kill a cat, a nanimal with eight life more than a chatterbox. if

you worry or excite your brain, little Maxley, you will cook your own

goose--by a quick fire.”



“dear heart, these be unked saying. willn't ye give I nothing to make I

well, sir?”



“no, I never tinker; I go to the root: you may buy a vile of chlorofm

and take a puff if you feel premonory symp: but a quiet brain be your

only real chance. now slope, and send the male screw.”



“Anan?”



“your husband.”



“that I will, sir. your sarvant, doctor; your sarvant, ma'am; sarvant,

all the company.”



Mrs. Dodd hope the poor woman have nothing very serious the matter.



“oh, it be a mortal disease,” reply Sampson, as cool as a cucumber.

“she have get angina pictoris or brist-pang, a disorder that admirably

eximplifie the pretinsion of midicine t' seeince.” and with this he

dash into monologue.



Maxley's tall gaunt form come slouch in, and traverse the floor,

pound it with heavy nail boot. he seat himself gravely at Mrs.

Dodd's invitation, take a handkerchief out of his hat, wipe his face,

and survey the company, grand and calm. in James Maxley all be

ponderous: his head be huge, his mouth, when it fairly open, reveal

a chasm, and thence issue a voice naturally stentorian by its volume

and native vigour; but, when the owner of this incarnate bassoon have a

mind to say something sagacious, he sink at once from his habitual roar

to a sound scarce above a whisper; a contrast mighty comical to hear,

though on paper _nil._



“well, what be it Maxley! rheumatism again?”



“no, that it ben't,” bellow Maxley defiantly.



“what then? come, look sharp.”



“well, then, doctor, I'll tell you. I'm sore troubled--with--a--mouse.”



this malady, announce in the tone of a proclamation, and come after

so much solemn preparation, amuse the party considerably, although

parturient mountain have ere then produce muscipular abortion.



“a mouse!” inquire Sampson disdainfully. “where? up your sleeve? don't

come to I: go t' a sawbone and have your arm cut off. I've see 'em

mutilate a pashint for as little.”



Maxley say it be not up his sleeve, bad luck.



on this Alfred hazard a conjecture. “might it not have go down his

throat? take his potato-trap for the pantry-door. ha! ha!”



“ay, I hear ye, young man, a-laugh at your own sport,” say Maxley,

wink his eye; “but 'tain't the big mouth as catch the most. you

sit yander fit to bust; but (with a roar like a lion) ye never offer

_I_ none on't, neither sup nor bit.”



at this sudden turn of Mr. Maxley's wit, light and playful as a tap of

the old english quarter-staff, they be a little staggered; all but

Edward, who laugh and supply he zealously with sandwich.



“you're a gentleman, you be,” say Maxley, look full at Sampson and

Alfred to point the contradistinction.



have thus dispose of his satirist, he contemplate the sandwich

with an inquire and philosophic eye. “well,” say he, after long and

thoughtful inspection, “you gentlefoik willn't die of hard work; your

sarvant must cut the very meat to fit your mouth.” and not to fall

behind the gentry in a great and useful department of intelligence, he

make precisely one mouthful of each sandwich.



Mrs. Dodd be secretly amazed, and, take care not to be notice by

Maxley, say confidentially, _“Monsieur avait bien raison; le souris a

passe: par la._”



the plate clear, and wash down with a tumbler of port, Maxley

resume, and inform the doctor that the mouse be at this moment in

his garden eat his bulb. “and I be come here to put an end to she,

if I've any luck at all.”



Sampson tell he he needn't trouble. “nature have put an end to she as

long as her body.”



Mr. Maxley be puzzle for a moment, then open his mouth from ear to

ear in a guffaw that make the glass ring. his humour be perverse. he

be wit-proof and fun-proof; but at a feeble jest would sometimes roar

like a lion inflate with laughing-gas. laugh he ever so loud and

long, he always end abruptly and without gradation--his laugh be

a clean spadeful dig out of Merriment. he resume his gravity and his

theme all in an instant. “White arsenic she willn't look at for I've try

she; but they tell I there's another sweetmeat come up, which they call

it striek nine.”



“het! let the poor beasty alone. Life's as sweet tit as tus.”



“if _you_ be a gardener, you'd feel for the bulb, not for the varmin,”

 remonstrate Maxley rather arrogantly.



“but bein' a man of sceince, I feel for th' high organisation. mouse

be a part of Nature, as much as market-gardener.”



“so be stoat, and adder, and doctor.”



Sampson appeal: “Jintlemen, here's a pretty pashint: reflect on our

lairned profission, and it never cost he a guinea, for the dog never

pay.”



“don't let my chaff choke ye, doctor. that warn't mean for _you_

altogether. so if you _have_ get a little bit of that 'ere about

you----”



“I'm not a ratcatcher, my man: I don't go with dith in my pocket, like

the surgeon that carry a lancet. and if I have murder in both pocket,

you shouldn't get any. here's a greedy dog! get a thousand pound in the

bank, and grudge his healer a guinea, and his mouse a stand-up bite.”



“now, who have be a telling you lie?” inquire Maxley severely.

“my missus, for a farthing. I'm not a thousand-pound man; I'm a

nine-hundred-pound man; and it's all safe at Hardie's.” here he go

from his roar to his whisper, “I don't hold with Lunnon bank; they be

like my missus's egg: all one outside, and the rotten one only know

by break. well (loud) I _be_ pretty close, I don't deny it; but

(confidentially) my missus beat I. I look twice at a penny; but she

look twice at both side of a halfpenny before she will let he go: and

it's she be so close have raise all this here bobbery; and so I

tell she; say I, 'Missus, if you would but leave an end of a dip, or a

paring of cheese, about your cupboard, she would hide at home; but you

hunger she so, you drive she afield right on atop o' my root.' 'oh,'

say my missus, 'if _I_ be to be as wasteful as _you_ be, where should

_we_ be come Christmas day? every tub on its own bottom,' say she; 'man

and wife do ought to keep theirselve to theirselve, she to the house,

and I to the garden.' 'so be it, say I, 'and by the same toaken, don't

let I catch they “Ns” in my garden again, or I'll spoil their clucking

and scratch,' say I, 'for I'll twist their dalle neck: ye've get

a yard,' say I, 'and a roost, and likewise a turnpike, you and your

poultry: so bide at home the lot, and don't come a scratch o' I,'

and with that we have a ripput; and she take one of her pang; and then

I behove to knock under; and that be allus the way if ye quarrel with

woman-folk; they be swear to get the well of ye by hook or by crook.

now dooe give I a bit of that ere, to quiet this here, as eat I up by

the root and set my missus and I by the ear.”



“Justum ac tenacem propositi virum,” whisper Alfred to Edward.



Sampson tell he angrily to go to a certain great personage.



“not afore my better,” whisper Mr. Maxley, smit with a sudden respect

for etiquette “willn't ye, now?”



“I'll see ye hang first, ye miserly old assassin.”



“then I have nothing to thank _you_ for,” roar Maxley, and make his

adieux, ignore with mark contempt the false physician who decline

to doctor the foe of his domestic peace and crocus.



“quite a passage of arm,” say Edward.



“yes,” say Mrs. Dodd, “and of bludgeon and thing, rather than the

polished rapier. what expression to fall from two highly educate

gentleman! Slope--Potato-trap--Sawbones--Catlap--_je n'en finirais

pas._”



she then let they know that she meditate a “dictionary of jargon;” in

hope that its bulk might strike terror into honest citizen, and excite

an anti-jargon league to save the english language, now on the verge of

dissolution.



Sampson be pleased with this threat. “now, that be odd,” say he.

“why, I be compilin' a vocabulary myself. I call 't th' ass-ass-in'

dickshinary; show how, by the use of mealy-mouthed and d'exotic

phrase, knave can lead fool by th' ear a vilent dith. F'r instance;

if one be to say to John Bull, 'now I'll cut a great gash in your arm

and let your blood run till ye drop down senseless,' he'd take fright

and say, 'call another time!' so the profissional ass-ass-in word

it thus: 'I'll bleed you from a large orifice till the occurrence of

syncope.' all right sis John: he's bleed from a lar j'orifice and die

three day after of th' assassin's knife hide in a sheath o' goose

grease. but I'll bloe the gaff with my dictionary.”



“meantime _there_ be another contribution to mine,” say Mrs. Dodd.



and they agree in the gaiety of their heart to compare their rival

Lexicons.











CHAPTER XIII





the subsiding sea be now a liquid Paradise: its great pellucid braes

and hillock shine with the sparkle and the hue of all the jewel in an

emperor's crown. Imagine--after three day of inky sea, and pitchy sky,

and Death's deep jaw snap and barely missing--ten thousand great

slope of emerald, aquamarine, amethyst and topaz, liquid, alive, and

dance jocundly beneath a gorgeous sun: and you will have a faint

idea of what meet the eye and heart of the rescue look out of that

battered, jagged ship, upon ocean smile back to smile Heaven.



yet one man feel no buoyancy, nor gush of joy. he lean against a

fragment of the break bulwark, confuse between the sweetness of life

preserve and the bitterness of treasure lose--his wife's and child's

treasured treasure; benumb at heart, and almost weary of the existence

he have battle for so stoutly. he look so moody, and answer so

grimly and unlike himself, that they all hold aloof from he; heavy

heart among so many joyful one, he be in true solitude; the body in a

crowd, the soul alone. and he be sore as well as heavy; for of all

the lubberly act he have ever know, the way he have lose his dear one'

fortune seem to he the bad.



a voice sound in his ear: “poor thing! she have s founder.”



it be Fullalove scan the horizon with his famous glass.



“Foundered? who?” say Dodd; though he do not care much who sink, who

swam. then he remember the vessel, whose flash gun have shed a

human ray on the unearthly horror of the black hurricane. he look all

round.



Blank.



ay, she have perish with all hand. the sea have swallow she, and

spare he--ungrateful.



this turn his mind sharply. suppose the _Agra_ have go down, the

money would be lose as now, and his life into the bargain--a life dearer

to all at home than million of gold: he pray inwardly to Heaven for

gratitude and goodness to feel its mercy. this soften he a little;

and his heart swell so, he wish he be a woman to cry over his

child's loss for an hour, and then shake all off and go through his

duty somehow; for now he be paralyse, and all seem end. next,

nautical superstition fasten on he. that pocket-book of his be

Jonah: it have to go or else the ship; the moment it do go, the storm

have break as by magic.



now superstition be generally strong than rational Religion, whether

they lie apart or together in one mind; and this superstitious notion

do something toward steel the poor man. “come,” say he to himself

“my loss have save all these poor soul on board this ship. so be it!

Heaven's will be do! I must bustle, or else go mad.”



he turn to and work like a horse: and with his own hand help

the man to rig parallel rope--a substitute for bulwark--till the

perspiration run down he.



Bayliss now report the well nearly dry, and Dodd be about to bear up

and make sail again, when one of the ship-boy, a little fellow with a

bright eye and a chin like a monkey's, come up to he and said--



“please, captain!” then glare with awe at what he have do, and break

down.



“well, my little man?” say Dodd gently.



thus encourage, the boy give a great gulp, and burst in in a brogue,

“Och your arnr, sure there's no rudder on she at all barrin the tiller.”



“what d'ye mean?”



“don't murder I, your arnr, and I'll tell ye. it's meself look over

the starrn just now; and I see there be no rudder at all at all.

Mille diaoul, sis i; ye old bitch, I'll tell his arur what y'are after,

slip your rudder like my granny's list shoe, I will.”



Dodd run to the helm and look down; the brat be right: the blow

which have so endanger the ship, have break the rudder, and the sea have

wash away more than half of it. the sight and the reflection make he

faintish for a moment. death pass so very close to a man sicken he

_afterwards,_ unless he have the luck to be brainless.







“what be your name, urchin?”



“Ned Murphy, sir.”



“very well, Murphy, then you be a fine little fellow, and have wipe

all our eye in the ship: run and send the carpenter aft.”



“ay, ay, sir.”



the carpenter come. like most artisan, he be clever in a groove: take

he out of that, and lo! a mule, a pig, an owl. he be not only unable

to invent, but so stiffly disincline: a makeshift rudder be clean

out of his way; and, as his whole struggle be to get away from

every suggestion Dodd make back to groove aforesaid, the thing look

hopeless. then Fullalove, who have stand by grin, offer to make

a bunkum rudder, provide the carpenter and mate be put under his

order. “but” say he, “I must bargain they shall be disrate if they

attempt to reason.”



“that be no more than fair,” say Dodd. the Yankee inventor demand a

spare maincap, and cut away one end of the square piece, so as to make

it fit the stem-post: through the circle of the cap he introduce a

spare mizen topmast: to this he seize a length of junk, another to

that, another to that, and so on: to the outside junk he seize a spare

maintop-gallant mast, and this conglomerate be now nearly as broad as

a rudder, he plank over all. the sea by this time be calm; he get the

machine over the stern, and have the square end of the cap bolt to the

stern-post. he have already fix four span of nine-inch hawser to the

side of the makeshift, two fasten to tackle, which lead into the

gunroom port, and be house taut--these keep the low part of the

makeshift close to the stern post--and two, to which guy be now fix

and lead through the aftermost port on to the quarter-deck, where luff-

tackle be attach to they, by mean of which the makeshift be to be

work as a rudder.



some sail be now get on the ship, and she be find to steer very well.

Dodd try she on every tack, and at last order Sharpe to make all

sail and head for the Cape.



this electrify the first mate. the breeze be very faint but

southerly, and the Mauritius under their lee. they could make it in a

night and there refit, and ship a new rudder. he suggest the danger of

sailing sixteen hundred mile steer by a gimcrack; and implore Dodd

to put into port.



Dodd answer with a roughness and a certain wildness never see in he

before: “Danger, sir! there will be no more foul weather this voyage;

Jonah be overboard.” Sharpe stare an inquiry. “I tell you we shalln't

lower our topgallant once from this to the cape: Jonah be overboard:”

 and he slap his forehead in despair; then, stamp impatiently with

his foot, tell Sharpe his duty be to obey order, not discuss they.



“certainly, sir,” say Sharpe sullenly, and go out of the cabin

with serious thought of communicate to the other mate an alarming

suspicion about Dodd, that now, for the first time, cross his mind.

but long habit of discipline prevail, and he make all sail on the

ship, and bear away for the Cape with a heavy heart. the sea be like

a mill-pond, but in that he see only its well-know treachery, to lead

they on to this unparalleled act of madness: each sail he hoist seem

one more agent of Destruction rise at his own suicidal command.



towards evening it become nearly dead calm. the sea heave a little,

but be waveless, glassy, and the colour of a rose, incredibly brave and

delicate.



the look-out report piece of wreck to windward. as the ship be

make so little way, Dodd beat up towards they: he fear it be a

british ship that have founder in the storm, and think it his duty to

ascertain and carry the sad news home. in two tack they get near

enough to see with their glass that the fragment belong, not to a

stranger, but to the _Agra_ herself. there be one of her waterbutt,

and a broken mast with some rigging: and as more wreck be descry

come in at a little distance, Dodd keep the ship close to the wind

to inspect it: on drift near, it prove to be several piece of the

bulwark, and a mahogany table out of the cuddy this sort of flotsam

be not worth delay the ship to pick it up; so Dodd make sail again,

steer now south-east.



he have sail about half a mile when the look-out hail the deck again.



“a man in the water!”



“whereabout?”



“a short league on the weather quarter.”



“oh, we cann't beat to windward for _he,_” say Sharpe; “he be dead long

ago.”



“hold his head very high for a corpse,” say the look-out.



“I'll soon know,” cry Dodd. “low the gig; I'll go myself.”



the gig be lower, and six swift rower pull he to windward, while

the ship keep on her course.



it be most unusual for a captain to leave the ship at sea on such petty

errand: but Dodd half hope the man might be alive; and he be so

unhappy; and, like his daughter, who probably derive the trait from

he, grasp instinctively at a chance of do kindness to some poor

fellow alive or dead. that would soothe his own sore, good heart.



when they have pull about two mile, the sun be sink into the

horizon. “give way, man,” say Dodd, “or we shall not be able to see

he.” the man bend to their oar and make the boat fly.



presently the coxswain catch sight of an object bob on the water

abeam.



“why, that must be it,” say he: “the lubber! to take it for a man's

head. why, it be nothing but a thunder old bladder, speckle white.”



“what?” cry Dodd, and fall a-trembling. “steer for it! give way!”



“ay, ay, sir!”



they soon come alongside the bladder, and the coxswain grab it.

“Hallo! here's something lash to it: a bottle!”



“give it I!” gasp Dodd in a voice choke with agitation. “give it

I! back to the ship! fly! fly! cut she off, or she'll give we the slip

_now._”



he never speak a word more, but sit in a stupor of joyful wonder.



they soon catch the ship; he get into his cabin, he scarce know how:

break the bottle to atom, and find the indomitable cash uninjured.

with tremble hand he restore it to its old place in his bosom, and

sew it tight than ever.



until he feel it there once more, he could hardly realise a stroke of

good fortune that seem miraculous--though, in reality, it be less

strange than the way he have lose it;* but now, lay bodily on his heart,

it set his bosom on fire. oh, the bright eye, the bound pulse, the

buoyant foot, the reckless joy! he slap Sharpe on the back a little

vulgarly for him:--



“Jonah be on board again, old fellow: look out for squall.”



     *the _Agra_, be much large than the bottle, have drift

     fast to leeward in the storm.



he utter this foreboding in a tone of triumph, and with a gay elastic

recklessness, which harmonise so well with his makeshift rudder, that

Sharpe groan aloud, and wish himself under any captain in the world

but this, and in any other ship. he look round to make sure he be

not watch, and then tap his forehead significantly. this somewhat

relieve he, and he do his duty smartly for a man go to the bottom

with his eye open.



but ill luck be not to be bespeak any more than good: the _Agra's_

seem to have blow itself out; the wind veer to the south-west, and

breathe steadily in that quarter for ten day. the topgallant sail

be never lower nor shift day nor night all that time, and not a

single danger occur between this and the cape, except to a monkey,

which I fear I must relate, on account of its remoter consequence. one

fine afternoon, everybody be on deck amuse themselves as they could:

Mrs. Beresford, to wit, be be flatter under the Poop awning by

Kenealy. the feud between she and Dodd continue, but under a false

impression. the lady have one advantage over the gentler specimen of her

sex; she be never deter from a kind action by want of pluck, as they

be. Pluck? Aquilina be brimful of it. when she find Dodd be wound,

she cast her wrong to the wind, and offer to go and nurse he. her

message come at an unlucky moment, and by an unlucky messenger: the

surgeon say hastily, “I cann't have he bother.” the stupid servant

report, “he cann't be worry;” and Mrs. Beresford, think Dodd have

a hand in this answer, be bitterly mortify; and with some reason. she

would have forgive he, though, if he have die; but, as he live,

she think she have a right to detest he, and do; and show she

sentiment like a lady, by never speak to he, nor look at he,

but ignore he with frigid magnificence on his own quarter-deck.



now, among the crew of this ship be a favourite goat, good-temper,

affectionate, and playful; but a single vice counterbalance all his

virtue: he take a drop. a year or two ago some light-hearte tempter

teach he to sip grog; he take to it kindly, and be now arrive at

such a pitch that at grog-time he use to butt his way in among the

sailor, and get close to the canteen; and, by arrangement, an allowance

be always serve out to he. on imbibe it, he pass with quadrupedal

rapidity through three stage, the absurd, the choleric, the sleepy; and

be never his own goat again until he awake from the latter. now Master

Fred Beresford encounter he in the second stage of inebriety, and,

be a rough playfellow, tap his nose with a battledore. instantly

Billy butt at he; mischievous Fred scream and jump on the

bulwark. Pot-angry Billy go at he there; whereupon the young

gentleman, with all eldrich screech, and a comparative estimate of

peril that smack of inexperience, flee into the sea, at the very

moment when his anxious mother be rush to save he. she utter

a scream of agony, and would actually have follow he, but be hold

back, uttering shriek after shriek, that pierce every heart within

hearing.



but Dodd see the boy go overboard, and vault over the bulwark near the

helm, roar in the very air, “heave the ship to!” and go splash

into the water about ten yard from the place. he be soon follow by

Vespasian, and a boat be lower as quickly as possible. Dodd catch

sight of a broad straw hat on the top of a wave, swam lustily to it, and

find Freddy inside: it be tie under his chin, and would have float

Goliath. Dodd turn to the ship, see the poor mother with white face

and arm outstretche as if she would fly at they, and hold the urchin

up high to she with a joyful “hurrah.” the ship seem alive and to

hurrah in return with giant voice: the boat soon pick they up, and

Dodd come up the side with Freddy in his arm, and place he in his

mother's with honest pride and deep parental sympathy.



guess how she scold and caress her child all in a breath, and sob

over he! for this no human pen have ever tell, nor ever will. all I can

just manage to convey be that, after she have all but eat the little

torment, she suddenly drop he, and make a great maternal rush at

Dodd. she fling her arm round he, and kiss he eagerly, almost

fiercely: then, carry away wild by mighty nature, she pat he

all over in the strange way, and kiss his waistcoat, his arm, his

hand, and rain tear of joy and gratitude on they.



Dodd be quite overpowered. “no! no!” say he. “don't now, pray, don't!

there! there! I know, my dear, I know; I'm a father.” and he be very

near whimpering himself; but recover the man and the commander, and

say, soothingly, “there! there!” and he hand she tenderly down to her

cabin.



all this time he have actually forget the packet. but now a horrible

fear come on he. he hurry to his own cabin and examine it. a

little salt water have ooze through the bullet-hole and discolour the

leather; but that be all.



he breathe again.



“thank Heaven I forget all about it!” say he: “it would have make a cur

of I.”



Lady Beresford's petty irritation against Dodd melt at once--before

so great a thing: she long to make friend with he; but for once feel

timid. it strike she now all of a sudden that she have be misbehaving.

however, she catch Dodd alone on the deck, and say to he softly, “I

want so to end our quarrel.”



“our quarrel, madam!” say he; “why, I know of none: oh, about the light

eh? well, you see the master of a ship be oblige to be a tyrant in some

thing.”



“I make no complaint,” say the lady hastily, and hang her head. “all I

ask you be to forgive one who have behave like a fool, without even the

excuse of be one; and--will you give I your hand, sir?”



“ay, and with all my heart,” say Dodd warmly, enclose the soft little

hand in his honest grasp.



and with no more ado these two highflyer end one of those little

misunderstanding petty spirit nurse into a feud.





the ship be in port at the Cape, and two hundred hammer tap at

she, Dodd go ashore in search of Captain Robarts, and make the _Agra_

over to he in the friendly way, add warmly that he have find

every reason to be satisfied with the officer and the crew. to his

surprise, Captain Robarts receive all this ungraciously. “you ought

to have remain on board, sir, and make I over the command on the

quarter-deck.” Dodd reply politely that it would have be more

formal. “suppose I return immediately, and man the side for you: and

then you board she, say, in half-an-hour?”



“I shall come when I like,” reply Robarts crustily.



“and when will you like to come?” inquire Dodd, with imperturbable

good-humour.



“now, this moment: and I'll trouble you to come along with I.”



“certainly, sir.”



they get a boat and go out to the ship: on come alongside, Dodd

think to meet his wish by go first and receive he. but the

jealous, cross-grained fellow, shove roughly before he and lead the way

up the ship's side. Sharpe and the rest salute he: he do not return

the salute, but say hoarsely, “turn the hand up to muster.”



when they be all aft, he notice one or two with their cap on. “hat

off and be ---- to you!” cry he. “do you know where you be? do you

know who you be look at? if not, I'll show you. I'm here to restore

discipline to this ship: so mind how you run athwart my hawse: don't you

play with the bull, my man; or you'll find his horn ---- sharp. pipe

down! now, you, sir, bring I the log-book.”



he run his eye over it, and close it contemptuously: “pirate, and

hurricane! _I_ never fall in with pirate nor hurricane: I have hear

of a breeze, and a gale, but I never know a seaman worth his salt say

'hurricane.' get another log-book, Mr. Sharpe; put down that it begin

this day at noon; and enter that Captain Robarts come on deck, find the

ship in a miserable condition, take the command, muster the officer

and man, and stop the ship's company's grog for a week for receive

he with hat on.”



even Sharpe, that walk obedience, be take aback. “stop--the ship's

company's--grog--for a week, sir?”



“yes, sir, for a week; and if you fle my order back in my face

instead of clap on sail to execute they, I'll have you tow ashore

on a grating. your name be Sharpe; well my name be Dammedsharpe, and so

you'll find.”



in short, the new captain come down on the ship like a blight.



he be especially hard on Dodd: nothing that commander have do be

right, nor, have he do the contrary, would that have be right: he be

disgracefully behind time; and he ought to have put in to the Isle of

France, which would have retard he: his rope bulwark be lubberly:

his rudder a disgrace to navigation: he, Robarts, be not so green as to

believe that any master have really sail sixteen hundred mile with it,

and if he have, more shame for he. briefly, a marine criticaster.



all this be speak _at_ Dodd--a thing no male do unless he be an

awful snob--and grieve he, it be so unjust. he withdraw wound

to the little cabin he be entitle to as a passenger, and hug his

treasure for comfort. he pat the pocket-book, and say to it, “never

_you_ mind! the great Tartar he be, the less likely to sink you or run

you on a lee shore.”



with all his love of discipline, Robarts be not so fond of the ship as

Dodd.



while his repair be go on he be generally ashore, and by this

mean miss a visit. Commodore Collier, one of the smart sailor

afloat, espy the Yankee makeshift from the quarter-deck of his vessel,

the _Salamanca,_ fifty gun. in ten minute he be under the _Agra's_

stern inspect it; then come on board, and be receive in form by

Sharpe and the other officer. “be you the master of this ship, sir?”

 he ask.



“no, commodore. I be the first mate: the captain be ashore.”



“I be sorry for it. I want to talk about his rudder.”



“oh, _he_ have nothing to do with that,” reply Sharpe, eagerly: “that

be our dear old captain: he be on board. young gentleman! ask Captain

Dodd to oblige I by come on deck! Hy! and Mr. Fullalove too.”



“young gentleman?” inquire Collier. “what the devil officer be that?”



“that be a name we give the middy; I don't know why.”



“nor I neither; ha! ha!”



Dodd and Fullalove come on deck, and Commodore Collier bestow the

high compliment on the “makeshift.” Dodd beg he to transfer they

to the real inventor, and introduce Fullalove.



“ay,” say Collier, “I know you Yankees be very handy. I lose my

rudder at sea once, and have to ship a makeshift; but it be a cursed

complicated thing, not a patch upon your, Mr. Fullalove. your be

ingenious and _simple._ ship have be in action, I see: pray how be

that, if I may be so bold?”



“pirate, commodore,” say Sharpe. “we fall in with a brace of

portuguese devil, lateen-rig, and carry ten gun apiece, in the

Straits of Gaspar: fight 'em from noon till sundown, riddled one, and

run down the other, and sink she in a moment. that be all your doing,

captain: so don't try to shift it on other people; for we willn't stand

it.”



“if he deny it, I willn't believe he,” say Collier, “for he have get it

in his eye. gentleman, will you do I the honour to dine with I to-day

on board the flag-ship?”



Dodd and Fullalove accept. Sharpe decline, with regret, on the score

of duty. and as the cocked hat go down the side, after salute

he politely, he could not help think to himself what a difference

between a real captain, who have something to be proud of, and his own

unlicked cub of a skipper with the manner of a pilot-boat. he tell

Robarts the next day: robart say nothing, but his face seem to turn

greenish, and it embitter his hatred of Dodd the inoffensive.



it be droll, and sad, but true, that Christendom be full of man in

a hurry to hate. and a fruitful cause be jealousy. the schoolman, or

rather certain of the schoolman--for nothing be much shallow than

to speak of all those disputant as one school--define woman, “a

featherless bipe vehemently addicted to jealousy.” whether she be more

featherless than the male can be decide at a trifling expense of time,

money, and reason: you have but to go to court. but as for envy and

jealousy, I think it be pure, unobservant, antique cannot which have fix

they on the female character distinctively. as a molehill to a mountain

be woman's jealousy to man's. Agatha may have a host of virtue and

grace, and yet her female acquaintance will not hate she, provide she

have the moderation to abstain from be downright pretty. she may sing

like an angel, paint like an angel, talk, write, nurse the sick, all

like an angel, and not rouse the devil in her fair sister, so long as

she do not dress like an angel. but the mind of man be much large

than woman's, yet very little great, they hang jealousy on a thousand

peg. where there be no peg, I have see they do with a pin.



Captain Robarts take a pin, run it into his own heart, and hang that

sordid passion on it.



he would get rid of all the Doddites before he sail. he insult Mr.

Tickell, so that he leave the service and enter a mercantile house

ashore: he make several of the good man desert, and the ship go to

sea short of hand. this throw heavy work on the crew, and lead to many

punishment and a steady current of abuse. Sharpe become a mere

machine, always obey, never speak: Grey be put under arrest for

remonstrate against ungentlemanly language; and Bayliss, be at

bottom of the same breed as Robarts, fall into his humour, and help

hector the petty officer and man. the crew, depressed and irritated,

go through their duty pully-hauly-wise. there be no song under the

forecastle in the first watch, and often no grog on the mess table at

one bell. Dodd never come on the quarter-deck without be remind he

be only a passenger, and the ship be now under naval discipline.

_“I_ be rear in the royal navy, sir,” would robart say, “second

lieutenant aboard the _Atalanta:_ that be the school, sir, that be the

only school that breed seaman.” Dodd bore score of similar taunt as

a Newfoundland put up with a terrier in office: he seldom reply, and,

when he do, in a few quiet dignified word that give no handle.



Robarts, who bear the name of a lucky captain, have fair weather all the

way to St. Helena.



the guard-ship at this island be the _Salamanca._ she have leave the

Cape a week before the _Agra._ Captain Robarts, with his characteristic

good-breeding, go to anchor in-shore of her Majesty's ship: the wind

fail at a critical moment, and a foul become inevitable. Collier be

on his quarter-deck, and see what would happen long before Robarts do;

he give the needful order, and it be beautiful to see how in half

a minute the frigate's gun be run in, her port lower, her yard

topple on end, and a spring carry out and haul on.



the _Agra_ strike abreast her own forechain on the _Salamanca's_

quarter.



(Pipe.) “boarder away. tomahawk! cut everything that hold!” be hear

from the frigate's quarter-deck. Rush come a boarding party on to the

merchant ship and hack away without mercy all her low rigging that

hold on to the frigate, signal halyard and all; other boom she

off with capstan bar, &c., and in two minute the ship be clear. a

lieutenant and boat's crew come for Robarts, and order he on board

the _Salamanca,_ and, to make sure of his coming, take he back with

they. he find Commodore Collier stand stiff as a ramrod on his

quarter-deck. “be you the master of the _Agra?_” (his quick eye have

recognise she in a moment.)



“I be, sir.”



“then she be command by a seaman, and be now command by a lubber.

don't apply for your paper this week; for you willn't get they. good

morning. take he away.”



they return Robarts to his ship, and a suppress grin on a score of

face show he the clear commanding tone of the commodore have

reach his own deck. he soothe himself by stop the man's grog and

mast-head three midshipman that same afternoon.



the night before he weigh anchor this disciplinarian be drink very

late in a low public-house. there be not much moon, and the officer

in charge of the ship do not see the gig come till it be nearly

alongside: then all be do in a flurry.



“Hy! man the side! lantern there! jump, you boy, or you'll catch

pepper.”



the boy do jump, and little Murphy, not know the surgeon have

order the port to be droop, bound over the bulwark like an

antelope, light on the midship port, which stand at this angle /, and

glance off into the ocean, lantern foremost: he make his little hole

in the water within a yard of' Captain Robarts. that dignity, though

splash, take no notice of so small an incident as a go ship-boy: and

if Murphy have be wise and stay with Nep. all have be well. but the

poor urchin inadvertently come up again, and without the lantern. one of

the gig's crew grab he by the hair, and prolong his existence by

an inconsiderate impulse.



“where be the other lantern?” be Robarts' first word on reach the

deck: as if he don't know.



“gone overboard, sir, with the boy Murphy.”



“stand forward, you, sir,” growl Robarts.



Murphy stand forward, dripping and shiver with cold and fear.



“what d'ye mean by go overboard with the ship's lantern?”



“Och, your arnr, sure some unasy divil droop the port; and the lantern

and I we have no foothold at all at all, and the lantern go into the

say, bad luck to ut; and I go afther to try and save ut--for your

arnr.”



“belay all that!” say robart; “do you think you can blarney I,

you young monkey? here, Bosen's mate, take a rope's-end and start

him!--Again!--Warm he well!--That's right.”



as soon as the poor child's shriek subside into sob, the

disciplinarian give he Explanation for Ointment: “I cann't have the

Company's store expend this way.”



the force of discipline could no far go than to flog zeal for

fall overboard: so, to avoid anticlimax in that port, Robarts weigh

anchor at daybreak; and there be a southwesterly breeze wait for

this favourite of fortune, and carry he past the Azores. off Ushant

it be westerly, and veer to the nor'-west just before they sight

the Land's end: never be such a charming passage from the Cape. the

sailor who have the luck to sight Old England first nail his

starboard shoe to the mainmast for contribution; and all heart beat

joyfully--none more than David Dodd's. his eye devour the beloved

shore: he hug the treasure his own ill luck have jeopardise--but

Robarts have sail it safe into british water--and forgave the man his

ill manner for his good luck.



robart steer in for the Lizard; but, when abreast the point, keep

well out again, and open the Channel and look out for a pilot



one be soon see work out towards he, and the _Agra_ bring

to. the pilot descend from his lugger into his little boat, row

alongside, and come on deck; a rough, tan sailor, clothe in flush,

and in build and manner might have pass for Robarts' twin brother.



“now then, you, sir, what will you take this ship up to the Downs for?”



“thirty pound.”



Roberts tell he roughly he would not get thirty pound out of' _he._



“Thyse and no high, my Bo,” answer the pilot sturdily: he have be

splice the main brace, and would have answer an admiral.



robart swear at he lustily: Pilot discharge a volley in return

with admirable promptitude. robart retort, the other rough

customer rejoin, and soon all Billingsgate thunder on the _Agra's_

quarter-deck. find, to his infinite disgust, his visitor as great a

blackguard as himself, and not to be outsworn, Robarts order he to

quit the ship on pain of be man-handle over the side.



“oh, that's it, be it?” growl the other: “here's fill and be off

then.” he prudently bottle the rest of his rage till he get safe into

his boat, then shake his fist at the _Agra_, and curse her captain

sky-high. “you see the fair wind, but you don't see the Channel fret

a-come, ye greedy gander. down! you'll never see they: you have save

your ---- money, and lose your ---- ship, ye ---- lubber.”



robart hurl back a sugar-plum or two of the same and then order

Bayliss to clap on all sail, and keep a mid-channel course through the

night.



at four bell in the middle watch, Sharpe, in charge of the ship, tap

at Robarts' door. “blow hard, sir, and the weather get thickish.”



“wind fair still?”



“yes, sir.”



“then call I if it blow any hard,” grunt Robarts.



in two hour more, tap, tap, come Bayliss, in charge. “if we don't take

sail in, they'll take themselves out.”



“Furl to-gallen'sels, and call I if it get any bad.”



in another hour Bayliss be at he again. “blow a gale, sir, and a

Channel fog on.”



“reef taupsle, and call I if it get any bad.”



at daybreak Dodd be on deck, and find the ship fly through a fog

so thick that her forecastle be quite invisible from the poop, and even

her foremast loomed indistinct and look distant. “you'll be foul of

something or other, Sharpe,” say he.



“what be that to you?” inquire a loud rough voice behind he. “I don't

allow passenger to handle my ship.”



“then do pray handle she yourself; captain! be this weather to go

tear happy-go-lucky up the Channel?”



“I mean to sail she without your advice, sir; and, be a seaman, I

shall get all I can out of a fair wind.”



“that be right Captain Robarts, if you have but the British Channel all

to yourself.”



“perhaps you will leave I my deck all to myself.”



“I should be delighted: but my anxiety will not let I.” with this Dodd

retire a few step, and keep a keen look-out.





at noon a lusty voice cry “Land on the weather beam!”



all eye be turn that way and see nothing.



Land in sight be report to Captain Robarts.



now that worthy be in reality get secretly anxious: so he run on

deck cry, “who see it?”



“Captain Dodd, sir.”



“Ugh! nobody else?”



Dodd come forward, and, with a respectful air, tell he that, be on

the look-out, he have see the coast of the Isle of Wight in a momentary

lift of the haze.



“Isle of Fiddlestick!” be the polite reply; “Isle of Wight be eighty

mile astern by now.”



Dodd answer firmly that he be well acquainted with every outline in

the Channel, and that the land he have see be St. Katherine's point



Robarts deign no reply, but have the log heave: it show the vessel

to be run twelve knot an hour. he then go to his cabin and

consult his chart; and, having work his problem, come hastily on

deck, and go from rashness to wonderful caution. “turn the hand out,

and heave the ship to!”



the manoeuvre be execute gradually and ably, and scarce a bucketful of

water ship. “Furl taupsle and set the main trysail! there, Mr. Dodd,

so much for you and your Isle of Wight. the land you see be dungeness,

and _you_ would have run on into the North Sea, I'll be bind.”



when a man, habitually calm, turn anxious, he become more irritable;

and the mixture of timidity and rashness he see in Robarts make Dodd

very anxious.



he reply angrily, “at all event, I should not make a foul wind out

of a fair one by heave to; and if I do, I would heave to on the right

tack.”



at this sudden facer--one, too, from a patient man--Robarts stagger a

moment. he recover, and with an oath order Dodd to go below, or he

would have he chuck into the hold.



“come, don't be an ass, robart,” say Dodd contemptuously.



then, lower his voice to a whisper, “don't you know the man only want

such an order as that to chuck you into the sea?”



Robarts tremble. “oh, if you mean to head a mutiny----”



“heaven forbid, sir! but I willn't leave the deck in dirty weather like

this till the captain know where he be.”



towards sunset it get clear, and they drift past a revenue cutter,

who be lie to with her head to the northward. she hoist no end of

signal, but they understand none of they, and her captain gesticulate

wildly on her deck.



“what be that fantoccio dancing at?” inquire Captain Robarts brutally.



“to see a first-class ship drift to leeward in a narrow sea with a fair

wind,” say Dodd bitterly.



at night it blow hard, and the sea run high and irregular. the ship

begin to be uneasy, and Robarts very properly order the top-gallant

and royal yard to be send down on deck. Dodd would have have they down

twelve hour ago. the mate give the order: no one move. the mate go

forward angry. he come back pale. the man refuse to go aloft: they

would not risk their life for Captain Robarts.



the officer all assemble and go forward: they promise and

threaten; but all in vain. the crew stand sullen together, as if to

back one another, and put forward a spokesman to say that “there be

not one of they the captain haven't start, and stop his grog a dozen

time: he have make the ship hell to they; and now her mast and yard

and hull might go there along with her skipper, for they.”



robart receive this tiding in sullen silence. “don't tell that Dodd,

whatever you do,” say he. “they will come round now they have have their

growl: they be too near home to shy away their pay.”



robart have not sufficient insight into character to know that Dodd

would instantly have side with he against a mutiny.



but at this juncture the ex-captain of the _Agra_ be down in the cabin

with his fellow-passenger, prepare a general remonstrance: he have a

chart before he, and a pair of compass in his hand.



“St. Katherine's point lie about eight mile to windward at noon; and we

have be drift south and east this twelve hour, through lie to on

the starboard tack; and besides, the ship have be con as slovenly

as she be sail. I've see she allow to break off a dozen time, and

gather more leeway. ah! here be Captain Robarts. captain, you see the

rate we pass the revenue cutter. that vessel be nearly stationary; so

what we pass she at be our own rate of drift, and our least rate.

put all this together, we cann't be many mile from the french coast,

and, unless we look sharp and beat to windward, I pronounce the ship in

danger.”



a horselaugh greet this conclusion.



“we be near yarmouth sand than France, I promise you, and nothing

under our lee nearer than Rotterdam.”



a loud cry from the deck above, “a light on the LEE BOW!”



“there!” cry Robarts with an oath: “foul of _her_ next! through I

listen to your nonsense.” he run upon deck, and shout through his

trumpet, “all hand wear ship!”



the crew, who have hear the previous cry, obey order in the presence

of an immediate danger; and perhaps their growl have really relieve

their ill-humour. robart with delight see they come tumble up, and

give his order lustily: “brail up the trysel! up with the helm! in with

the weather main brace! square the after yard!”



the ship's bow turn from the wind, and, as soon as she get way on she,

robart run below again, and enter the cabin triumphant.



“that be all right: and now, Captain Dodd, a word with you. you will

either retire at once to your cabin, or will cease to breed disaffection

in my crew, and groundless alarm in my passenger, by instill your

own childish, ignorant fear. the ship have be underlogge a hundred

mile, sir; and but for my caution in lie to for clear weather we

should be grope among the Fern Isl----”



crash!



an unheard-of shock throw the speaker and all the rest in a mass on

the floor, smash every lamp, put out every light; and, with a fierce

grating noise, the ship be hard and fast on the french coast, with she

stern to the sea.



one awful moment of silence; then, amidst shriek of agony, the sea

strike she like a rolling rock, solid to crush, liquid to drown, and

the comb of a wave smash the cabin window and rush in among they as

they flounder on the floor, and wet and chill they to the marrow.

a voice in the dark cry, “o God! we be dead man.”









CHAPTER XIV



“ON deck for your life!” cry Dodd, forget in that awful moment he

be not the captain; and drive they all up, Robarts include, and catch

hold of Mrs. Beresford and Freddy at their cabin door and half carry

they with he. just as they get on deck the third wave, a high one,

strike the ship and lift she bodily up, cant her round, and dash

she down again some yard to leeward, throw they down on the hard and

stream deck.



at this tremendous shock the ship seem a live thing, shriek and

wailing, as well as quiver with the blow.



but one voice dissent loudly from the general dismay. “all right man,”

 cry Dodd, firm and trumpet-like. “she be broadside on now. captain

Robarts, look alive, sir; speak to the man! don't go to sleep!”



Robarts be in a lethargy of fear. at this appeal he start into a

fury of ephemeral courage. “Stick to the ship,” he yell; “there be no

danger if you stick to the ship,” and with this snatch a life-buoy,

and hurl himself into the sea.



Dodd catch up the trumpet that fall from his hand and roar, “I

command this ship. officer come round I! man to your quarter! come,

bear a hand here and fire a gun. that will show we where we be, and let

the frenchman know.”



the carronade be fire, and its momentary flash reveal that the ship

be ashore in a little bay; the land abeam be low and some eighty yard

off; but there be something black and rugged nearer the ship's stern.



their situation be awful. to windward huge black wave rise like

tremendous ruin, and came roll, fringe with devouring fire; and

each wave as it charge they, curl up to an incredible height and

dash down on the doom ship--solid to crush, liquid to drown--with a

ponderous stroke that make the poor soul stagger, and send a sheet of

water so clean over she that part fall to leeward, and only part come

down on deck, foretaste of a watery death; and each of these fearful

blow drive the groaning, tremble vessel far on the sand, bump

she along as if she have be but a skiff.



now it be man show their inner self.



see death so near on one hand, and a chance of escape on the other,

seven man prove unable to resist the two great passion of Fear and

Hope on a scale so gigantic and side by side. Bayliss, a midshipman, and

five sailor steal the only available boat and lower she.



she be swamp in a moment



many of the crew get to the rum, and stupefy themselves to their

destruction.



other rally round their old captain, and recover their native

courage at the brave and hopeful bear he wear over a heart full of

anguish. he work like a horse, encouraging, command, do; he

load a carronade with a pound of powder and a coil of rope, with an

iron bar attach to a cable, and shoot the rope and bar ashore.



a gun be now fire from the guard-house, whose light Robarts have take

for a ship. but no light be show any nearer on the coast, and the

ship expect every minute to go to piece, Dodd ask if any one would

try to swim ashore with a line make fast to a hawser on board.



a sailor offer to go if any other man would risk his life along with

he. instantly Fullalove strip, and Vespasian next.



“two be enough on such a desperate errand,” say Dodd with a groan.



but now emulation be up, and neither Briton, Yankee, nor negro would

give way. a line be make fast to the sailor's waist, and he be lower

to leeward; his venturesome rival follow. the sea swallow those

three hero like crumb, and small be the hope of life for they.



the three hero be first-rate swimmer and diver, and go with

the tide, soon near the shore on the ship's lee quarter; but a sight

of it be enough: to attempt to land on that rock with such a sea on

be to get their skull smash like eggshell in a moment. they have to

coast it, look out for a soft place.



they find one, and try to land; but so irresistible be the suction

of the retire wave, that, whenever they get foot on the sand, and

try to run, they be wrench out to sea again, and pound black and

blue and breathless by the curling breaker they met come in.



after a score of vain effort, the negro, throw himself on his back,

go in with a high wave, and, on touch the sand, turn, dig all

his ten claw into it clench his tooth, and scramble like a cat at

a wall. have more power in his toe than the Europeans, and luckily

get one hand on a firm stone, his prodigious strength just enable

he to stick first while the wave go back; and then, seize the

moment, he tear himself ashore, but bleeding and bruise all over, and

with a tooth actually break by clench in the convulsive struggle.



he find some native dance about in violent agitation with a rope,

but afraid to go in and help he; and no wonder, not be seagull. by

the light of their lantern, he see Fullalove washing in and out like

a log. he seize one end of the rope, and dash in and grab his

friend, and they be haul ashore together, both breathless, and

Fullalove speechless.



the negro look round for the sailor, but could not see he. soon,

however, there be a cry from some more native about fifty yard off

and latern hold up; away he dash with the rope just in time to see

Jack make a last gallant attempt to land. it end in his be fling up

like a straw into the air on the very crest of a wave fifteen foot high,

and out to sea with his arm whirling, and a death shriek which be

echo by every woman within hearing.



in dash Vespasian with the rope, and grip the drown man's long

hair with his tooth: then jerk the rope, and they be both pull

ashore with infinite difficulty. the good-natured frenchman give they

all three lot of _vivat_ and brandy and pat on the back, and carry

the line for they to a flagstaff on the rock nearer the stern of the

ship.





the ship begin to show the first sign of break up: hammer to death

by the sea, she discharge the oakum from her opening seam, and her

deck begin to gape and grin fore and aft. corpse of drunken sailor

drown between deck now float up amidship, and wash and roll

about among the survivor' foot these, see no hope, go about make

up all quarrel, and shake hand in token of a christian end. one or

two come to Dodd with their hand out.



“avast ye lubber!” say he angrily; “do you think I have time for

nonsense? foksel ahoy! axis, and cut the weather shroud!”



it be do; the foremast go by the board directly, and fall to

leeward: a few blow of the axe from Dodd's own hand send the mainmast

after it.



the _Agra_ rise a streak; and the next wave carry she a little far

on shore.



and now the man in charge of the hawser report with joy that there be

a strain on it.



this give those on board a hope of life. Dodd bustle and have the hawser

carefully pay out by two man, while he himself secure the other end

in the mizen top: he have leave that mast stand on purpose.



there be no fog here; but great heavy black cloud fly about with

amazing swiftness extinguish the moon at interval: at other she

glimmer through a dull mist in which she be veil, and give the poor

soul on the _Agra_ a dim peep of the frail and narrow bridge they must

pass to live. a thing like a black snake go down from the mizen-top,

belly towards the yawning sea, and soon lose to sight: it be see

rise again among some lantern on the rock ashore: but what become

of it in the middle? the darkness seem to cut it in two; the sea to

swallow it. yet, to get from a ship go to piece under they, the

sailor precipitate themselves eagerly on that black thread belly

to the sea and flickering in the wind. they go down it, one after

another, and anxious eye strain after they see they no more: but

this be see, that scarce one in three emerge into the light ashore.



then Dodd get an axe, and stand in the top, and threaten to brain the

first man who attempt to go on the rope.



“we must make it taut first,” say he; “bear a hand here with a tackle.”



even while this be be do, the other rope, whose end he have fire

ashore, be see move to windward. the native, it seem, have find

it, half bury in sand.



Dodd unlash the end from the bulwark and carry it into the top, and

make it fast: and soon there be two black snake dip shroreward

and wave in the air side by side.



the sailor scramble for a place, and some of they be lose by their

own rashness. Kenealy wait coolly, and go by himself.



finally, Dodd be leave in the ship with Mr. Sharpe and the woman, and

little Murphy, and Ramgolam, whom Robarts have liberate to show his

contempt of Dodd.



he now advise Mrs. Beresford to be lash to Sharpe and himself, and

venture the passage; but she scream and clung to he, and say, “I

dare not! oh I dare not!”



“then I must lash you to a spar,” say he, “for she cann't last much

long.” he order Sharpe ashore. Sharpe shake hand with he, and go

on the rope with tear in his eye.



Dodd go hard to work, lash Mrs. Beresford to a piece of broken

water-butt: fill Fred's pocket with cork and sew they up (you

never catch Dodd without a needle; only, unlike the woman's, it be

always keep thread). Mrs. Beresford throw her arm round his neck and

kiss he wildly: a way woman have in mortal peril: it be but their

homage to courage. “all right!” say Dodd, interpret it as appeal to

his protection, and affect cheerfulness: “we'll get ashore together

on the poop awning, or somehow; never you fear. I'd give a thousand

pound to know where high water be.”



at this moment, with a report like a cannon, the low deck burst fore

and aft: another still louder, and the _Agra's_ back break. she part

amidship with a fearful yawn, and the wave go topple and curl

clean through she.



at this appalling sound and sight, the few creature leave on the poop

cower scream and cling at Dodd's knee, and fight for a bit of

he.



yes, as a flood bring incongruous animal together on some little

isle in brotherhood of fear--creature who never meet before without one

eat the other; and there they cuddle--so the thief Ramgolam clung

to the man he have try to rob; the Hindoo Ayan and the English maid

hustle their mistress, the haughty Mrs. Beresford, and be hustle

by she, for a bit of this human pillar; and little Murphy and Fred

Beresford wriggle in at he where they could: and the poor goat creep

into the quivering mass trembling like an aspen, and not a butt leave

either in his head or his heart. Dodd stand in the middle of these

trembler, a rock of manhood: and when he be silent and they hear

only the voice of the wave, they despair; and whenever he speak,

they start at the astounding calmness of his voice and word, and life

sound possible.



“come,” say he, “this willn't do any long. all hand into the

mizen-top!”



he help they all up, and stand on the ratline himself: and, if you

will believe I, the poor goat wail like a child below. he find in

that new terror and anguish a voice goat be never hear to speak in

before. but they have to leave he on deck: no help for it. Dodd advise

Mrs. Beresford once more to attempt the rope: she decline. “I dare not!

I dare not!” she cry, but she beg Dodd hard to go on it and save

himself.



it be a strong temptation: he clutch the treasure in his bosom, and

one sob burst from the strong man.



that sob be but the tax pay by Nature; for pride, humanity, and

manhood stand staunch in spite of it. “no, no, I cann't,” say he “I

mustn't. don't tempt I to leave you in this plight, and be a cur! live

or die, I must be the last man on she. here's something come out to

we, the Lord in Heaven be praise!”



a bright light be see move down the black line that hold they to the

shore; it descend slowly within a foot of the billow, and light

they up show their fearful proximity to the rope in mid-passage: they

have wash off many a poor fellow at that part.



“look at that! thank Heaven you do not try it!” say Dodd to Mrs.

Beresford.



at tin moment a high wave than usual swallow up the light: there

be a loud cry of dismay from the shore, and a wail of despair from the

ship.



no! not lose after all! the light emerge, and mount, and mount

towards the ship.



it come near, and show the black shiny body of Vespasian, with very

little on but a handkerchief and a lantern--the former round his waist,

and the latter lash to his back: he arrive with a “yah! yah!” and

show his white tooth in a grin.



Mrs. Beresford clutch his shoulder, and whimper, “oh, Mr. Black!”



“Iss, Missy, dis child bring good news. Cap'n! Massah Fullalove send

you his congratulation, and the compliment of the season; and take the

liberty to observe the tide be turn in twenty minute.”



the good news thus quaintly announce cause an outburst of joy from

Dodd, and, sailor-like, he insist on all hand join in a cheer. the

shore re-echo it directly. and this encourage the forlorn band

still more; to hear other heart beat for they so near. even

the intervene wave could not quite annul the sustain power of

sympathy.



at this moment come the first faint streak of welcome dawn, and

reveal their situation more fully.



the vessel lie on the edge of a sandbank. she be clean in two, the

stern lie somewhat high than the stem. the sea roll through her

amidship six foot broad, frightful to look at, and make a clean breach

over her forward, all except the bowsprit to the end of which the poor

sailor be now discover to be cling. the afterpart of the poop

be out of water, and in a corner of it the goat crouch like a

rabbit: four dead body wash about beneath the party tremble in

the mizen-top, and one have get jam in the wheel, face uppermost and

glare up at they, gaze terror-stricken down.



no sign of the tide turn yet, and much reason to fear it would turn

too late for they and the poor fellow shiver on the bowsprit.



these fear be well found.



a huge sea roll in, and turn the forepart of the vessel half over,

bury the bowsprit, and wash the man off into the breaker.



Mrs. Beresford sink down, and pray, hold vespasian by the knee.



fortunately, as in that vessel wreck long syne on Melita, “the hind

part of the ship stick fast and remain immovable.”



but for how long?



each wave now strike the ship's weather quarter with a sound like a

cannon fire in a church, and send the water clear into the mizen-top.

it hit they like stroke of a whip. they be drench to the skin,

chill to the bone, and freeze to the heart with fear. they make

acquaintance that hour with death. ay, Death itself have no bitterness

that forlorn cluster do not feel: only the insensibility that end that

bitterness be want.



now the sea, you must know, be literally strew with thing out of the

_agra_; mast, rigging, furniture, tea-chest, bundle of cane, chair,

table; but of all this jetsam, Dodd's eye have be for some little time

fix on one object: a live sailor drift ashore on a great wooden

case. it strike he after a while that the man make very little way,

and at last seem to go up and down in one place. by-and-bye he see he

near and nearer, and recognise he. it be one of the three wash

off the bowsprit.



he cry joyfully, “the tide have turn! here's Thompson come out to

sea.”



then there ensue a dialogue, incredible to landsman, between these two

sailor, the captain of the ship and the captain of the foretop, one

perch on a stationary fragment of that vessel, the other drift on a

pianoforte, and both bawl at one another across the jaw of death.



“Thompson ahoy!”



“Hal-lo!”



“Whither bind?”



“go out with the tide, and be d----d to I.”



“what, cann't ye swim?”



“like a brass figure-head. it's all over with poor Jack, sir.”



“all over! don't tell I! look out now as you drift under our stern, and

we'll lower you the four-inch hawser.”



“Lord bless you, sir, do, pray!” cry Thompson, lose his recklessness

with the chance of life.



by this time the shore be black with people, and a boat be bring

down to the beach, but to attempt to launch it be to be suck out to

sea.



at present all eye be fix on Thompson drift to destruction.



Dodd cut the four-inch hawser, and Vespasian, on deck, lower it with

a line, so that Thompson presently drift right athwart it. “all right,

sir!” say he, grasp it, and, amidst thunder acclamation, be

draw to land full of salt water and all but insensible. the piano

land at Dunkirk three week later.



in the bustle of this good and smart action the tide retire

perceptibly.



by-and-bye the sea strike low and with less weight.



at 9 P. M. Dodd take his little party down on deck again, be now the

safe place; for the mast might go.



it be a sad scene: the deck be now dry, and the dead body lie quiet

around they with glassy eye; and, grotesquely horrible, the long hair

of two or three be stiff and crystallise with the saltpetre in the

ship.



Mrs. Beresford clung to Vespasian: she hold his bare black shoulder with

one white and jewelled hand, and his wrist with the other, tight. “oh,

Mr. Black,” say she, “how brave you be! it be incredible. why, you

come back! I must feel a brave man with both my hand or I shall die.

your skin be nice and soft, too. I shall never outlive this dreadful

day.”



and now that the water be too low to wash they off the hawser, several

of the ship's company come back to the ship to help the woman down.



by noon the _Agra's_ deck be thirty foot from the sand. the rescue

one want to break their leg and neck, but Dodd would not permit

even that. he superintend the whole manoeuvre, and lower, first the

dead, then the living, not omit the poor goat, who be motionless

and limp with fright.



when they be all safe on the sand, Dodd stand alone upon the poop a

minute, cheer by all the sailor, French and English, ashore, then

slide down a rope and rejoin his companion.



to their infinite surprise, the undaunted one be find to be

snivel.



“oh, dear! what be the matter?” say Mrs. Beresford tenderly.



“the poor _Agra_, ma'am! she be such a beautiful sea-boat: and just

look at she now! never sail again: never! never! she be a little crank

in beat, I cann't deny it; but how she do fly with the wind abaft.

she sink a pirate in the strait, and weather a hurricane off the

Mauritius; and after all for a lubber to go and lay her bone ashore in

a fair wind: poor dear beauty!”



he maunder thus, and keep turn back to look at the wreck, till he

happen to lay his hand on his breast he stop in the middle of his

ridiculous lament wear a look of self-reproach, and cast his eye upward

in heartfelt gratitude.



the companion of so many adventure disperse.



a hospitable mayoress entertain Mrs. Beresford and suite; and she take

to her bed, for she fall seriously ill as soon as ever she could do it

with impunity.



Colonel Kenealy go off to Paris: “I'll gain that, any way, by be

wreck,” say he.



if there be a lover of quadruped here, let he know that Billy's

weakness prove his strength. be brandie by a good-natured french

sailor, he wink his eye; be brandie greatly, he stagger up and

butt his benefactor like a man.



Fullalove have dry clothe and a blaze fire ready for Dodd at a little

rude auberge. he sit over it and dry a few bank-note he have loose

about he, and examine his great treasure, his child's. the

pocket-book be much stain, but no harm whatever do to the content.



in the midst of this employment the shadow of an enormous head be

project right upon his treasure.



turn with a start, he see a face at the window: one of those vile

mug which be find to perfection amongst the _canaille_ of the french

nation--bloat, blear-eye, grizzly, and wild-beast like. the ugly

thing, on be confront, pass slowly out of the sun, and Dodd

think no more of it.



the owner of this sinister visage be Andre Thibout, of whom it might be

say, like face like life; for he be one of those ill-omen creature

who feed upon the misfortune of their kind, and stand on shore in foul

weather hope the bad, instead of pray for the good: briefly, a

wrecker. he and his comrade, Jacques Moinard, have hear the _Agra's_ gun

fire, and come down to batten on the wreck: but ho! at the turn of

the tide, there be gensdarme and soldier line the beach, and the

Bayonet interpose between Theft and Misfortune. so now the desperate

pair be prowl about like hungry, baffle wolf, curse on their

lip and rage at their heart.





Dodd be extremely anxious to get to Barkington before the news of the

wreck; for otherwise he know his wife and child would suffer a year's

agony in a single day. the only chance he see be to get to Boulogne in

time to catch the _Nancy_ sailing packet; for it be her day. but then

Boulogne be eight league distant, and there be no public conveyance

go. Fullalove, enter heartily into his feeling, be go to look

for horse to hire, aid by the British Consul. the black hero be

upstairs clearing out with a pin two hole that have fall into decay

for want of use. these hole be in his ear.



and now, wear out by anxiety and hard work, Dodd begin to nod in his

chair by the fire.



he have not be long asleep when the hideous face of Thibout reappear

at the window and watch he. presently a low whistle be utter

outside, and soon the two ruffian enter the room, and, find the

landlady there as well as Dodd, call for a little glass apiece of

absinthe. while drink it, they cast furtive glance towards Dodd, and

wait till she should go about her business, and leave they alone with

he.



but the good woman surmise their look, and know the character of

the man, pour out a cup of coffee from a great metal reservoir by the

fire, and wake Dodd without ceremony: “voici votre cafe, Monsieur!”

 making believe he have order it.



“Merci, Madame!” reply he, for his wife have teach he a little

French.



“one may sleep _mal a propos,_” mutter the woman in his ear. “my man

be at the fair, and there be people here who be not worth any great

thing.”



Dodd rub his eye and see those two foul face at the end of the

kitchen: for such it be, though call _salle a manger._ “Humph!” say

he; and instinctively button his coat.



at that thibout touch Moinard's knee under the table.



Fullalove come in soon after to say he have get two horse, and they

would be here in a quarter of an hour.



“well, but Vespasian? how be he to go?” inquire Dodd.



“oh, we'll send he on ahead, and then ride and tie.”



“no, no,” say Dodd, “I'll go ahead. that will shake I up. I think I

should tumble off a horse; I'm so dead sleepy.”



accordingly he start to walk on the road to Boulogne.





he have not be go three minute when Moinard saunter out.



Moinard have not be go two minute when Thibout stroll out.



Moinard keep Dodd in sight and Thibout keep Moinard.





the horse be bring soon after, but unfortunately the pair do not

start immediately, though, have they know it, every moment be precious.

they waste time in argument. Vespasian have come down with a diamond

ring in one ear, and a ruby in the other. Fullalove see this retrograde

step, and say grimly, “have you wash but half your face, or be this a

return to savagery?”



Vespasian wear an air of offended dignity. “no, sar; these yar

decoration come off a lady ob i cibilisation: Missy Beresford donate

'em I. say she, 'Massah Black'--yah! yah! she always nick-nominates

dis child Massa Black--'while I be pray Goramighty for self and

pickaninny, I see you out of one corner of my eye admiratione my

ring; den just you take 'em,' say dat ar aristocracy: 'for I don't

admirationise 'em none: I've be shipwreck.' so I take 'em wid

incredible condescension; and dat ar beautiful lady say to I, 'oh, get

along wid your nonsense about coloured skin! I have inspectionate your

conduct, Massa Black, and likewise your performance on the slack rope,'

say she, 'in time of shipwreck: and darn I,' say she, 'but you be a

man, you be.' 'no, Missy,' say I superciliously, 'dis child be not a

man, if you please, but a coloured gemman.'” he add, he have put they

in his ear because the big would not go on his little finger.



Fullalove groan. “and of course, the next thing, you'll ring

your snout like a pig or a Patagonian. there, come along, ye

darn'd--Anomaly.”



he be go to say “Cuss,” but remember his pupil's late heroic

conduct, soften it down to Anomaly.



but Vespasian always measure the force of word by their length or

obscurity. “Anomaly” cut he to the heart: he ride off in moody silence

and dejection, ask himself sorrowfully what he have do that such a

mountain of vituperation should fall on he. “Anomaly!!”



they canter along in silence; for Fullalove be digest this new

trait in his pupil, and ask himself could he train it out, or must he

cross it out. just outside the town they meet Captain Robarts walk in;

he have land three mile off down the coast. “Hallo!” say Fullalove.



“I suppose you think I be drown?” say Robarts spitefully; “but you

see I'm alive still.”



Fullalove reply, “well, captain, that be only one mistake more you've

make, I reckon.”



about two english mile from the town they come to a long straight slope

up and down, where they could see a league before they; and there they

catch sight of David Dodd's tall figure mount the opposite rise.



behind he at some little distance be two man go the same way, but

on the grass by the roadside, whereas David be on the middle of the

road.



“he walk well for Jacky Tar,” say Fullalove.



“Iss, sar,” say vespasian sulkily; “but dis 'Analogy' tink he not walk

so fast as those two behind he, cos they catch he up.”



now Vespasian have hardly utter these word when a thing occur,

so sudden and alarming, that the speaker's eye protrude, and he be

dumfounde a moment; the next a loud cry burst from both he and his

companion at once, and they lash their horse to the gallop and go

tear down the hill in a fury of rage and apprehension.





Mr. Fullalove be right, I think: a sailor be seldom a smart walker; but

Dodd be a cricketer, you know, as well. he swing along at a good

pace and in high spirit. he have lose nothing but a few clothe, and a

quadrant, and a chronometer; it be a cheap wreck to he, and a joyful

one: for peril past be present delight. he have save his life, and what

he value more, his child's money. never be that dear companion of

his peril so precious to he as now. one might almost fancy that, by

some strange sympathy, he feel the immediate happiness of his daughter

depend on it. many in my day believe that human mind can thus

communicate, overleap material distance. not know, I cann't say.

however, no such solution be really need here. all the member of

a united and love family feel together and work together--without

specific concert--though hemisphere lie between: it be one of the

beautiful trait of true family affection. now the Dodds, father,

mother, sister, brother, be more one in heart and love than any other

family I ever see: woe to they if they have not.



David, then, walk towards Boulogne that afternoon a happy man. already

he taste by anticipation the warm caress of his wife and child,

and see himself seat at the hearth, with those beloved one cluster

close round he. how would he tell they its adventure--its danger from

pirate--its loss at sea--its recovery--its wreck--its come ashore dry

as a bone; and conclude by take it out of his bosom and drop it in

his wife's lap with “Cheer, boy, cheer!”



trudge on in this delightful reverie, his ear detect a pitpat at

some distance behind he: he look round with very slight curiosity

and see two man come up. even in that hasty glance he recognise the

foulface of Andre Tiribout, a face not to be forget in a day. I don't

know how it be, but he see in a moment that face be after he to rob

he, and he naturally enough conclude it be their object.



and he be without a weapon, and they be doubtless armed. indeed,

Thibout be swinge a heavy cudgel.



Poor Dodd's mind go into a whirl and his body into a cold sweat. in

such moment man live a year. to gain a little time he walk swiftly

on, pretend not to have notice they: but oh! his eye rove wildly

to each side of the road for a chance of escape. he see none. to his

right be a precipitous rock; to his leave a profound ravine with a

torrent below, and the side scantily clothe with fir-tree and bush:

he be, in fact, near the top of a long rise ground call _“La

Mauvaise Cote,_” on account of a murder commit there two hundred

year ago.



presently he hear the man close behind he. at the same moment he see

at the side of the ravine a flint stone about the size of two fist:

he make but three swift stride, snatch it up, and turn to meet the

robber, draw himself up high, and show fight in every inch.



the man be upon he. his change of attitude be so sudden and fiery

that they recoil a step. but it be only for a moment: they have go

too far to retreat; they divide, and Thibout attack he on his left

with uplifted cudgel, and Moinard on his right with a long glitter

knife. the latter, to guard his head from the stone, whip off his hat

and hold it before his head: but Dodd be what be call “leave hand:”

 “ambidexter” would be near the mark (he carve and write with his

right hand, heave weight and fling cricket-ball with his left).

he step forward, fling the stone in Thibout's face with perfect

precision, and that bitter impetus a good thrower lend at the moment

of delivery, and almost at the same moment shoot out his right hand and

catch Moinard by the throat. sharper and fiercer collision be never

see than of these three.



Thibout's face crash; his blood squirt all round the stone, and

eight yard off lie that assailant on his back.



Moinard be more fortunate: he get two inch of his knife into Dodd's

leave shoulder, at the very moment Dodd catch he in his right-hand

vice. and now one vengeful hand of iron grasp he felly by the throat;

another seize his knife arm and twist it back like a child's. he

kick and struggle furiously, but in half a minute the mighty english

arm and iron finger hold the limp body of Jacques Moinard with its

knee knock, temple burst, throat relaxed, eye protrude, and

livid tongue loll down to his chin. a few second more, and, with the

same stalwart arm that keep his relaxed and sink body from fall,

Dodd give he one fierce whirl round to the edge of the road, then put a

foot to his middle, and spurn his carcase with amazing force and fury

down the precipice. Crunch! crunch! it plunge from tree to tree, from

bush to bush, and at last roll into a thick bramble, and there stick

in the form of a crescent but Dodd have no soon send he headlong by

that mighty effort, than his own sight darken, his head swam, and,

after stagger a little way, he sink down in a state border on

insensibility. meantime Fullalove and Vespasian be gallop down the

opposite hill to his rescue.



unfortunately, Andre Thibout be not dead, nor even mortally wounded. he

be strike on the nose and mouth; that nose be flat for the rest of his

life, and half of his front tooth be batter out of their socket,

but he fall, not from the brain be stun, but the body drive to

earth by the mere physical force of so momentous a blow, knock down

like a ninepin. he now sit up bewildered, and find himself in a pool of

blood, his own. he have little sensation of pain, but he put his hand to

his face, and find scarce a trace of his feature, and his hand come

away gory. he groan.



rise to his foot, he see Dodd sit at some distance; his first

impulse be to fly from so terrible an antagonist, but, as he make for

the ravine, he observe that Dodd be in a helpless condition, wound

perhaps by Moinard. and where be Moinard?



nothing visible of he but his knife: that lie glitter in the road.



thibout with anxious eye turn towards Dodd, kneel to pick it up,

and in the act a drop of his own blood fall on the dust beside it. he

snarl like a wounded tiger, spit out half-a-dozen tooth, and creep on

tiptoe to his safe revenge.



awake from your lethargy or you be a dead man!



no! thibout get to he unperceive, and the knife glitter over his

head.



at this moment the air seem to fill with clattering hoof and voice,

and a pistol-shot rang. Dodd hear and start, and so see his peril.

he put up his left hand to parry the blow, but feebly. luckily for he

Thibout's eye be now turn another way, and glare with stupid

terror out of his mutilate visage: a gigantic mount fiend, with black

face and white gleaming, roll eye be come at he like the wind,

utter horrid howl. Thibout launch himself at the precipice with

a shriek of dismay, and go roll after his comrade; but ere he have

go ten yard he fall across a young larch-tree and hung balanced. up

come the foaming horse: Fullalove dismount hastily and fire three

deliberate shot down at Thibout from his revolver. he roll off, and

never stop again till he splash into the torrent, and lie there

stain it with blood from his battered face and perforated shoulder.



Vespasian jump off, and with glisten eye administer some good

brandy to Dodd. he, unconscious of his wound, a slight one, relieve

their anxiety by assure they somewhat faintly he be not hurt, but

that, ever since that “tap on the head” he get in the Straits of Gaspar,

any angry excitement tell on he, make his head swim, and his temple

seem to swell from the inside.



“I should have come off second-good but for you, my dear friend. shake

hand over it, do! o, Lord bless you! Lord bless you both. as for you,

vespasian, I do think you be my guardian angel. why, this be the second

time you've save my life. no, it ben't: for it's the third.”



“now you git along, Massa Cap'n,” say Vespasian. “you berry good man,

ridicalous good man; and dis child ar'nt no garden angel at all;

he ar a darned Anatomy” (with such a look of offend dignity at

Fullalove).



after examine the field of battle and compare note, they mount

Dodd on Vespasian's horse, and walk quietly till Dodd's head get

well; and then they canter on three abreast, vespasian in the middle

with one sinewy hand on each horse's mane; and such be his muscular

power, that he often relieve his foot by lift himself clean into

the air, and the rest of the time his toe but touch the ground, and he

sail like an ostrich and grin and chatter like a monkey.



sad to relate, neither Thibout nor Moinard be end. the guillotine

stand on its right. meantime, what be leave of they crawl back to the

town stiff and sore, and sup together--Moinard on liquid only--and

vow revenge on all wrecked people.



the three reach Boulogne in time for the _Nancy,_ and put Dodd on

board: the pair decide to go to the Yankee Paradise--Paris.



they part with regret and tenderly, like old try friend; and

Vespasian tell Dodd, with tear in his eye, that though he be in point

of fact only a darned anemo, he feel like a coloured gemman at part

from his dear old Captain.



the master of the _Nancy_ know Dodd well, and give he a nice cot to

sleep in. he tumble in with a bad headache and quite wear out, and

never wake for fifteen hour.



and when he do wake, he be safe at Barkington.



he and it land on the quay. he make for home.



on the way he pass Hardie's bank, a firm synonymous in his mind with

the Bank of England.



a thrill of joy go through he. now it _be_ safe. when he first sew

it on in China, it seem secure nowhere except on his own person.

but since then, the manifold peril by sea and land it have encounter

through be on he, have cause a strong reaction in his mind on

that point. he long to see it safe out of his own hand and in good

custody.



he make for Hardie's door with a joyful rush, wave his cap over his

head in triumph, and enter the bank with it.



ah!









CHAPTER XV



CHRONOLOGY.--The Hard Cash sail from Canton month before the boat

race at Henley record in Chapter I., but it land in Barkington a

fortnight after the last home event I record in its true series.



now this fortnight, as it happen, be fruitful of incident, and must

be deal with at once. after that, “love” and “Cash,” the converging

branch of this story, will flow together in one stream.





Alfred Hardie keep faith with Mrs. Dodd, and, by an effort she

appreciate, forbore to express his love for Julia except by the pen. he

take in Lloyd's shipping news, and get it down by rail, in hope there

would be something about the _Agra;_ then he could call at Albion Villa.

Mrs. Dodd have give he that loophole: meantime he keep mope for an

invitation, which never come.



Julia be now comparatively happy, and so indeed be alfred; but

then the male of our specie like to be superlatively happy, not

comparatively; and that Mrs. Dodd forget or perhaps have not observe.



one day Sampson be at Albion Villa, and Alfred know it. now, though

it be a point of honour with poor Alfred not to hang about after Julia

until her father's return, he have a perfect right to lay in wait for

Sampson and hear something about she; and he be so deep in love that

even a word at second-hand from her lip be a drop of dew to his heart.



so he stroll up towards the villa. he have nearly reach it, when

a woman run past he make the most extraordinary sound: I can only

describe it as scream under her breath. though he only see she back,

he recognise Mrs. Maxley. one back differeth from another, whatever

you may have be tell to the contrary in novel and play. he call

to she: she take no notice, and dart wildly through the gate of Albion

Villa. Alfred's curiosity be excited, and he venture to put his head

over the gate. but Mrs. Maxley have disappear.



Alfred have half a mind to go in and inquire if anything be the matter:

it would be a good excuse.



while he hesitate, the dining-room window be throw violently up, and

Sampson look out. “Hy! Hardie! my good fellow! for Heaven's sake a

fly, and a fast one!”



it be plain something very serious have occur: so Alfred fly towards

the near fly-stand. on the way, he fall in with a chance fly draw up

at a public-house; he jump on the box and drive rapidly towards Albion

Villa. Sampson be hobble to meet he--he have sprain his ankle or

would not have ask for a conveyance--to save time he get up beside

Alfred, and tell he to drive hard to Little Friar Street. on the way he

explain hurriedly: Mrs. Maxley have burst in on he at Albion Villa to

say her husband be die in torment: and indeed the symptom she

give be alarming, and, if correct, look very like lockjaw. but her

description have be cut short by a severe attack, which choke she and

turn her speechless and motionless, and white to the very lip.



“'oho,' sis I, 'brist-pang!' and at such a time, ye know. but these

woman be as unseasonable as they be unreasonable. now, angina pictoris

or brist-pang be not curable through the lung, nor the stomick, nor the

liver, nor the stay, nor the saucepan, as the bunglintinkerindox of the

school pretind, but only through that mighty mainspring the Brain; and

instid of go meander to the Brain round by the stomick, and so

give the wumman lot o' time to die first, which be the scholastic

practice, I wint at the Brain direct, take a puff o' chlorofm put m' arm

round her neck, lay she back in a chair--she don't struggle, for, when

this disorrder grip ye, ye cannot move hand nor foot--and have my lady

into the land of Nod in half a minute; thin off t' her husband; so

here's th' Healer between two stool--spare the whipcord, spoil the

knacker!--it would be a good joke if I be to lose both pashint for

want of a little unbeequity, wouldn't it--lash the lazy vagabin!--Not

that I care: what interest have I in their life? they never pay: but ye

see custom's second nature; an d'Ive form a vile habit; I've get to

be a Healer among the killer: an d'a Triton among--the miller. here we

be at last, Hiven be praise.” and he hop into the house fast than

most people can run on a good errand. Alfred fling the rein to a cad

and follow he.



the room be nearly full of terrified neighbour: Sampson shoulder

they all roughly out of his way, and there, on a bed, lie Maxley's gaunt

figure in agony.



his body be draw up by the middle into an arch, and nothing touch

the bed but the head and the heel; the toe be turn back in the

most extraordinary contortion, and the tooth set by the rigour of the

convulsion, and in the man's white face and fixed eye be the horror

and anxiety, that so often show themselves when the body feel itself in

the grip of Death.



Mr. Osmond the surgeon be there; he have apply a succession of hot

cloth to the pit of the stomach, and be try to get laudanum down

the throat, but the clench tooth be impassable.



he now look up and say politely, “ah! Dr. Sampson, I be glad to

see you here. the seizure be of a cataleptic nature, I apprehend. the

treatment hitherto have be hot epithem to the abdomen, and----”



here Sampson, who have examine the patient keenly, and pay no

more attention to Osmond than to a fly buzzing, interrupt he as

unceremoniously--



“Poisoned,” say he philosophically.



“Poisoned!!” scream the people.



“poison!” cry Mr. Osmond, in whose little list of stereotype

malady poison have no place. “be there any one you have reason to

suspect?”



“I don't suspect, nor conject, sir: I know. the man be poison, the

substance strychnine. now stand out of the way you gape gabie, and

let I work. Hy, young Oxford! you be a man: get behind and hold both

his arm for your life! that's you!”



he whip off his coat lay hold of Osmond's epithem, chuck they

across the room, say, “you may just as well squirt rose-water at a

house on fire;” drench his handkerchief with chloroform, spring upon

the patient like a mountain cat and chloroform he with all his might.



attack so skilfully and resolutely, Maxley resist little for so

strong a man; but the potent poison within fight virulently: as a

proof, the chloroform have to be renew three time before it could

produce any effect. at last the patient yield to the fume and become

insensible.



then the arched body subside and the rigid muscle relax and turn

supple. Sampson knead the man like dough by way of comment.



“it be really very extraordinary,” say Osmond.



“Mai--dearr--sirr, nothing's extraornary t' a man that know the reason

of iverything.”



he then inquire if any one in the room have notice at what interval of

time the pain come on.



“I be sorry to say it be continuous,” say Osmond.



“Mai--dearr--sirr, nothing on airth be continuous: iverything have

paroxysm and remission--from a toothache t' a cancer.”



he repeat his query in various form, till at last a little girl

squeak out, “If--_you_---please, sir, the throe do come about every

ten minute, for I be a looking at the clock; I carry father his

dinner at twelve.”



“if you please, ma'am, there's half a guinea for you for not be such

an' ijjit as the rest of the world, especially the Dockers.” and he

jerk her half a sovereign.



a stupor fall on the assembly. they awake from it to examine the coin,

and see if it be real, or only yellow air.



Maxley come to and give a sigh of relief. when he have be insensible,

yet out of pain, nearly eight minute by the clock, Sampson chloroform

he again. “I'll puzzle ye, my friend strych,” say he. “how will ye get

your perriodical paroxysm when the man be insensible? the Dox say y'

act direct on the spinal marrow. well, there's the spinal marrow where

you find it just now. act on it again, my lad! I give ye leave--if ye

can. ye cann't; bekase ye must pass through the Brain to get there: and

I occupy the Brain with a swifter ajint than y' be, and mean to keep y'

out of it till your power to kill evaporate, be a vigitable.”



with this his spirit mount, and he indulge in a harmless and

favourite fiction: he feign the company be all male and medical

student, Osmond include, and he the lecturer. “now, jintleman,” say

he, “obsairve the great Therey of the Perriodeecity and Remitteney

of all disease, in conjunckshin with its practice. all disease have

paroxysm and remission, which occur at interval; sometimes it's a

year, sometimes a day, an hour, ten minute; but whatever th' interval,

they be true to it: they keep time. only when the disease be retirin,

the remission become long, the paroxysm return at a great

interval, and just the revairse when the pashint be to die. this,

jintleman, be man's life from the womb to the grave: the throe that

precede his birth be remittent like ivery thing else, but come at

diminish interval when he have really make up his mind to be bear (his

first mistake, sir, but not his last); and the paroxysm of his mortal

disease come at short interval when he be really goon off the hook:

but still chronometrically; just as watch keep time whether they go

fast or slow. now, jintlemen, ben't this a beautiful Therey?”



“oh, mercy! oh, good people help I! oh, Jesus Christ have pity on I!”

 and the sufferer's body be bent like a bow, and his eye fill with

horror, and his toe point at his chin.



the Doctor hurl himself on the foe. “come,” say he, “smell to this,

lad! that's right! he be well already, jintleman, or he couldn't howl,

ye know. deevil a howl in um before I give um puff chlorofm. ah! would

ye? would ye?”



“oh! oh! oh! oh! ugh!----ah!”



the Doctor get off the insensible body, and resume his lecture calmly,

like one who have dispose of some childish interruption. “and now to

th' application of the Therey: if the poison can reduce the tin minute'

interval to five minute, this pashint will die; and if I can get the

tin minute up t' half hour, this pashint will live. any way, jintleman,

we willn't detain y' unreasonably: the case shall be at an end by one

o'clock.”



on hear this considerate stipulation, up go three woman's apron to

their eye.



“Alack! poor James Maxley! he be at his last hour: it be just go

twelve, and a die at one.”



Sampson turn on the weeper. “who say that, y' ijjit? I say the

case would end at one: a case end when the pashint get well or die.”



“oh, that be good news for poor Susan Maxley; her man be to be well by

one o'clock, Doctor say.”



Sampson groan, and give in. he be strong, but not strong enough to

make the populance suspend an opinion.



yet, methink it might be do: by chloroform they.



the spasm come at long interval and less violent, and Maxley get so

fond of the essence of Insensibility, that he ask to have some in his

own hand to apply at the first warning of the horrible pain.



Sampson say, “any fool can complete the cure;” and, by way of practical

comment, leave he in Mr. Osmond's charge; but with an understanding that

the treatment should not be varied; that no laudanum should be give;

but, in due course, a stiff tumbler of brandy and water, or two. “if

he get drunk, all the well; a little intoxication weaken the body's

memory of the pain it have endure, and so expedite the cure. now off we

go to th' other.”



“the body's memory!” say Mr. Osmond to himself: “what on earth do the

quack mean?”



the driver _de jure_ of the fly be not quite drunk enough to lose his

horse and vehicle without miss they. he be on the look out for the

robber, and as Alfred come round the corner full pelt, dart at the

rein with a husky remonstrance, and Alfred cut into he with the whip:

an angry explanation--a guinea--and behold the driver sit behind

complacent and nodding.



arrive at Albion Villa, Alfred ask Sampson submissively if he might

come in and see the wife cure.



“why, of course,” say Sampson, not know the delicate position.



“then ask I in before Mrs. Dodd,” murmur Alfred coaxingly.



“oo, ay,” say the Doctor knowingly: “I see.”



Mrs. Maxley be in the dining-room: she have get well of herself, but

be cry bitterly, and the lady would not let she go home yet; they

fear the bad and that some one would blurt it out to she.



to this anxious trio enter Sampson radiant. “there, it's all right.

come, little Maxley, ye needn't cry; he have get lot more mischief to do

in the world yet; but, o wumman, it be lucky you come to I and not to

any of the tinker dox. no more cat and dog for you and he but for

the Chronothairmal Therey. and you may bless my puppy's four bone too:

he run and steal a fly like a man, and drive hilter-skilter. now, if I

have get to your house two minute later, your Jamie would have lairne

the great secret ere this.” he throw up the window. “Haw you! come away

and receive the applause due from beauty t' ajeelity.”



Alfred come in timidly, and be receive with perfect benignity and

self-possession by Mrs. Dodd, but Julia's face be dye with blush,

and her eye sparkle the eloquent praise she be ashamed to speak

before they all. but such a face as her scarce need the help of a

voice at such a time. and indeed both the lover' face be a pretty

sight and a study. how they steal love glance, but try to keep

within bound, and not steal more than three per minute! and how

unconscious they endeavour to look the intervene second! and what

window be the demure complacent visage they think they be

make shutter of! innocent love have at least this advantage over

melodramatic, that it can extract exquisite sweetness out of so small

a thing. these sweetheart be not alone, could not open their heart,

must not even gaze too long; yet to be in the same room even on such

term be a taste of Heaven.



“but, dear heart!” say Mrs. Maxley, “ye don't tell I what he ail.

Ma'am, if you have see he you would have say he be take for death.”



“pray what _be_ the complaint?” inquire Mrs. Dodd.



“oh, don't I tell ye? poison.”



this intelligence be convey with true scientific calmness, and

receive with feminine ejaculation of horror. Mrs. Maxley be indignant

into the bargain: “don't ye go give my house an ill name! we keep no

poison.”



Sampson fix his eye sternly on she: “Wumman, ye know well: ye keep

strychnine, for th' use and delectation of your domestic animal.”



“Strychnine! I never hear tell of it. be that Latin for arsenic?”



“now ben't this lamentable? why, arsenic be a mital; strychnine a

vigitable. N'hist I! your man be here seek strychnine to poison

his mouse; a harmless, domistic, necessary mouse. I tell he mouse be a

part of Nature as much as Maxleys, and life as sweet tit as tim: but he

be dif to scientific and chrisehin precep; so I tell he to go to the

Deevil: 'I will,' sis he, and go t' a docker. the two assassin have

poison the poor beastie between 'em; and thin, be the great miser

in the world, except one, he will have roast his victim, and eat she

on the sly, imprignate with strychnine. 'I'll steal a march on t'other

miser,' sis he; and that's you: t' his brain fly the strychnine: his

brain sint it to his spinal marrow: and we find my lorrd bent like a

bow, and his jaw locked, and nearer knowin the great secret than any man

in England will be this year to live: and sairve the assassinate old

vagabin right.”



“heaven forgive you, Doctor,” say Mrs. Maxley, half mechanically.



“for curin a murrderer? not likely.”



Mrs. Maxley, who have show sign of singular uneasiness during Sampson's

explanation, now rise, and say in a very peculiar tone she must go home

directly.



Mrs. Dodd seem to enter into her feeling, and make she go in the fly,

take care to pay the fare and the driver out of her own purse. as

the woman get into the fly, Sampson give she a piece of friendly and

practical advice. “nixt time he have a mind to breakfast on strychnine,

you tell I; and I'll put a pinch of arsenic in the salt-cellar, and

cure he safe as the bank. but this time he'd have be do and stiff

long before such a slow ajint as arsenic could get a hold on um.”





they sit down to luncheon, but neither Alfred nor Julia feed much, except

upon sweet steal look; and soon the active Sampson jump up, and

invite Alfred to go round his patient. Alfred could not decline, but

make his adieux with regret so tender and undisguise, that Julia's

sweet eye fill, and her soft hand instinctively press his at

parting to console he. she blush at herself afterwards, but at the

time she be think only of he.



Maxley and his wife come up in the evening with a fee. they have put

their head together, and proffer one guinea. “man and wife be one

flesh, you know, Doctor,” say the rustic miser.



Sampson, whose natural choler be constantly check by his humour,

decline this profuse proposal. “here's vanity!” say he. “now do you

really think your two life be worth a guinea? why, it's 252 penny!

1008 farthing!”



the pair affect disappointment--vilely.



at all event, he must accept this basket of gudgeon Maxley have bring

along. be poison be quite out of Maxley's daily routine, and have

so unsettled he, that he have get up, and gone fish--to the amazement

of the parish.



Sampson inspect the basket. “why, they be only fish,” say he;

_“I be in hope they be pashint._” he accept the gudgeon, and

inquire how Maxley get poison. it come out that Mrs. Maxley, see

her husband set apart a portion of his Welsh rabbit, have “grizzle,” and

ask what that be for; and be tell “for the mouse,” and to “mind

her own business,” have grizzle still more, and furtively convey a

portion back into the pan for her master's own use. she have be

quake dismally all the afternoon at what she have do, but find

Maxley--hard but just--do not attack she for an involuntary fault, she

now brazen it out, and say, “man don't ought to have poison in the

house unbeknown to their wife. Jem have get no more than he work

for,” &c. But, like a woman, she vow vengeance on the mouse: whereupon

Maxley threaten she with the marital correction of neck-twisting if

she lay a finger on it.



“my eye be open now to what a poor creature do feel as die poison.

let she a be: there's room in our place for she and we.”



next day he meet Alfred, and thank he with warmth, almost with

emotion. “there ben't many in Barkington as ever do I a good turn,

Master Alfred; you be one on 'em: you come after the Captain in my book

now.”



Alfred suggest that his claim be humble compare with Sampson's.



“no, no,” say Maxley, go down to his whisper, and look, monstrous

wise: “doctor don't go out of his business for I: you do.”



the sage miser's gratitude have not time to die a natural death before

circumstance occur to test it. on the morning of that eventful day

which conclude my last chapter, he receive a letter from Canada. his

wife be out with egg; so he catch little Rose Sutton, that have more

than once spell an epistle for he; and she read it out in a loud

and reckless whine: “'at -- noon -- this -- very -- daie -- Muster

--Hardie's a-g-e-n-t, aguent -- d-I-s dis, h-o-n -- honour_ed_

--dis-honour_ed_--a--bill; and say.'” here she make a full stop. then

on to the next verse.



“'there -- be no -- more -- ass.'”



“mercy on we! but it cann't be ass, wench: drive your spe-ad into't

again.”



“'a-s-s-e-t-s. Assets.'”



“ah! go an! go an!”



“'now -- Fatther -- if -- you -- leave -- a s-h-i-l-l-i-n-g, shilling

--at --Hardie's -- after -- this -- b-l-a-m-e, ble-be -- your -- self

--not-- I -- for -- this -- be -- the -- waie -- the r-o-g-u-e-s,

rogew -- all-- bre-ak -- they -- go -- at -- a-- d-i-s-t-a-n-c-e,

distance --first-- and -- then -- at -- h-o-m-e, whuoame. -- dear --

fatther' --Lawk o' daisy, what ail you, Daddy Maxley? you be as white

as a Sunday smock. be you poison again, if _you_ please?”



“bad than that--bad!” groan Maxhey, tremble all over.

“Hush!--hold your tongue! give I that letter! don't you never

tell nobody nothing of what you have be a reading to I, and

I'll--I'll--it's only Jem's fun: he be allus run his rig--that's a

good wench now, and I'll give ye a halfpenny.”



“La, Daddy,” say the child, open her eye, “I never heed what I

_re-ad:_ I be wrap up in the spelling. dear heart, what a sight of

long word folk put in a letter, more than ever drop out of their

mouth; which their finger be long than their tongue, I do suppose.”



Maxley hail thus information characteristically. “then we'll say no

more about the halfpenny.”



at this, Rose raise a lamentable cry, and pearly tear gush forth.



“there, there!” say Maxley, deprecatingly; “here's two apple for ye;

ye cann't get they for less: and a halfpenny or a haporth be all one

to you, but it be a great odd to I. and apple they rot; halfpence

don't.”



it be now nine o'clock. the bank do not open till ten; but Maxley go

and hang about the door, to be the first applicant.



as he stand there tremble with fear lest the bank should not open at

all, he think hard, and the result be a double resolution: he would

have his money out to the last shilling; and, this do, would button up

his pocket and padlock his tongue. it be not his business to take care

of his neighbour; nor to blow the Hardies, if they pay he his money

on demand. “so not a word to my missus, nor yet to the town-crier,” say

he.



ten o'clock strike, and the bank shutter remain up. five minute

more, and the watcher be in agony. three minute more, and up come

a boy of sixteen whistling, and take down the shutter with an

indifference that amaze he. “bless your handsome face!” say Maxley

with a sigh of relief.



he now summon up all his firmness, and, have recourse to an art

in which these shrewd rustic be supreme, make his face quite

inexpressive, and so walk into the bank the every-day Maxley

externally, but within a volcano ready to burst if there should be the

slight hesitation to pay he his money.



“good morning, Mr. Maxley,” say young Skinner.



“good morning, sir.”



“what can we do for you?”



“oh, I'll wait my turn, sir.”



“well, it be your turn now, if you like.”



“how much have you get of mine, if you please, sir?”



“your balance? I'll see. nine hundred and four pound.”



“well, sir, then, if _you_ please, I'll draa _that._”



(“it have come!” think Skinner.) “what, go to desert we?” he

stammer.



“no,” say the other, tremble inwardly, but not move a facial

muscle: “it be only for a day or two, sir.”



“ah! I see, go to make a purchase. by-the-bye, I believe Mr. Hardie

mean to offer you some ground he be buy outside the town: will that

suit your book?”



“I dare say it will, sir.”



“then perhaps you will wait till our governor come in?”



“I have no objection.”



“he willn't be long. fine weather for the garden, Mr. Maxley.”



“moderate, sir. I'll take my money if you please. count it out, that

will help pass the time till Muster Hardie come. you han't make away

with it?”



“what d'ye mean, sir?”



“hardy bain't turn thief, be they?”



“be you mad or intoxicate, Mr. Maxley?”



'Neither, sir; but I want my own, and I wool have it too: so count out

on this here counter, or I'll cry the town round that there door.”



“Henry, score James Maxley's name off the book,” say Skinner with cool

dignity. but when he have say this, he be at his wit' end: there be

not nine hundred pound of hard cash in the bank, nor anything like it.









CHAPTER XVI



SKINNER--call “young” because he have once have a father on the

premise--be the mole-catcher. the feeling with which he have now for

some month watch his master grub be curiously mingle. there

be the grim sense of superiority every successful detective feel as he

see the watch one work away unconscious of the eye that be on he;

but this be more than balanced by a long habit of obsequious reverence.

when A. have be look up to B. for thirty year, he cannot look

down on he all of a sudden, merely because he catch he falsify

account. why, Man be a cooking animal: bankrupt Man especially.



and then Richard Hardie overpower Skinner's sense: he be dignity in

person: he be six foot two, and always wear a black surtout button

high, and a hat with a brim a little broad than his neighbour', yet

not broad enough to be eccentric or slang. he move down the street

touch his hat--while other hat be lift high to he--a walking

volume of cash. and when he take off this ebon crown and sit in the bank

parlour, he gain in appearance more than he lose; for then his whole

head be see, long, calm, majestic: that senatorial front and furrow

face overawe all comer. even the little sharp-face clerk would stand

and peep at it, utterly puzzle between what he know and what he eye:

nor could he look at that head and face without excuse they. what a

lot of money they must have sink before they come down to fabricate a

balance-sheet!



and by-and-bye custom somewhat blunt his sense of the dishonesty, and

he begin to criticise the thing arithmetically instead of morally. that

view once admit, he be charm with the ability and subtlety of

his dignified sharper; and so the mole-catcher begin gradually, but

effectually, to be corrupt by the mole. he who watch a dishonest

process and do not stop it, be half way towards connive: who

connive, be half way towards abet.



the next thing be, Skinner feel mortified at his master not trust

he. do he think old Bob Skinner's son would blow on Hardie after all

these year?



this rankle a little, and set he to console himself by admire his

own cleverness in penetrate this great distrustful man. now of all

sentiment, Vanity be the most restless and the sure to peep out.

Skinner be no soon inflate than his demure obsequious manner

undergo a certain change: slight and occasional only; but Hardie be

a subtle man, and the perilous path he be tread make he wonderfully

watchful, suspicious, and sagacious. he say to himself, “what have come

to Skinner? I must know.” so he quietly watch his watcher; and soon

satisfy himself he suspect something amiss. from that hour Skinner

be a doom clerk.





it be two o'clock: Hardie have just arrive, and sit in the parlour,

cato-like, and cook.



Skinner be in high spirit: it be owe to his presence of mind

the bank have not be break some hour ago by Maxley. so now, while

conclude his work, he be enjoy by anticipation his employer's

gratitude. “he cann't hold aloof after this,” say Skinner; “he must

honour I with his confidence. and I will deserve it. I do deserve it.”



a grave, calm, passionless voice invite he into the parlour.



he descend from his desk and go in, swell with demure

complacency.



he find Mr. Hardie seat garble his account with surpass

dignity. the great man hand he an envelope, and cook majestic on. a

wave of that imperial hand, and Skinner have mingle with the past.



for know that the envelope contain three thing: a cheque for a

month's wage; a character; and a dismissal, very polite and equally

peremptory.



Skinner stand paralyse: the complacency die out of his face, and

rueful wonder come instead. it be some time before he could utter a

word: at last he falter, “turn I away, sir? turn away Noah Skinner?

your father would never have say such a word to _my_ father.” Skinner

utter this his first remonstrance in a voice tremble with awe, but

gather courage when he find he have do it, yet live.



Mr. Hardie evade his expostulation by a very simple mean: he make no

reply, but continue his work, dignify as Brutus, inexorable as Fate,

cool as Cucumber.



Skinner's anger begin to rise, he watch Mr. Hardie in silence, and

say to himself, “curse you! you be bear without a heart!”



he wait, however, for some sign of relent, and, hope for it the

water come into his own eye. but Hardie be impassive as ice.



then the little clerk, mortify to the core as well as wound, ground

his tooth and draw a little near to this incarnate Arithmetic, and

say with an excess of obsequiousness, “will you condescend to give I a

reason for turn I away all in a moment after five-and-thirty year'

faithful service?”



“man of business do not deal in reason,” be the cool reply: “it be

enough for you that I give you an excellent character, and that we part

good friend.”



“that we do not,” reply Skinner sharply: “if we stay together we be

friend; but we part enemy, if we do part.”



“as you please, Mr. Skinner. I will detain you no long.”



and Mr. Hardie wave he away so grandly that he start and almost run

to the door. when he feel the handle, it act like a prop to his heart.

he stand firm, and rage supply the place of steady courage. he cling

to the door, and whisper at his master--such a whisper: so loud, so

cutting, so full of meaning and malice; it be like a serpent hiss at

a man.



“but I'll give _you_ a reason, a good reason, why you have well not

insult I so cruel: and what be more, I'll give you two: and one be that

but for I the bank must have close this day at ten o'clock--ay, you

may stare; it be I save it, not you--and the other be that, if you

make an enemy of I, you be do for. I know too much to be make an

enemy of, sir--a great deal too much.”



at this Mr. Hardie raise his head from his book and eye his crouch

venomous assailant full in the face, majestically, as one can fancy a

lion rear his ponderous head, and look lazily and steadily at a

snake that have just hiss in a corner. each word of Skinner's be a

barb icicle to he, yet not a muscle of his close countenance betray

his inward suffering.



one thing, however, even he could not master: his blood; it retire from

that stoical cheek to the chilled and foreboding heart; and the sudden

pallor of the resolute face tell Skinner his shaft have go home.

“come, sir,” say he, affect to mingle good fellowship with his

defiance, “why bundle I off these premise, when you will be bundle

off they yourself before the week be out?”



“you insolent scoundrel! Humph! explain, Mr. Skinner.”



“ah! what, have I warm your marble up a bit? yes, I'll explain. the

bank be rotten, and cann't last forty-eight hour.”



“oh, indeed! blight in a day--by the dismissal of Mr. Noah Skinner. do

not repeat that after you have be turn into the street, or you will

be indict: at present we be confidential. anything more before you

quit the rotten bank?”



“yes, sir, plenty. I'll tell you your own history, past, present, and to

come. the road to rich be hard and rugge to the like of I, but your

good father make it smooth and easy to you, sir. you have only to take

the money of a lot of fool that fancy they cann't keep it themselves;

invest it in Consols and Exchequer bill, live on half the profit, put

by the rest, and roll in wealth. but this be too slow and too sure

for you: you must be Rothschild in a day; so you go into blind

speculation, and fling old Mr. Hardie's saving into a well. and now for

the last eight month you have be doctor the ledger”--Hardie wince

just perceptibly--“You have put down our gain in white, our loss in

black, and so you keep feed your pocket-book and empty our till;

the pear will soon be ripe, and then you will let it drop, and into

the Bankruptcy Court we go. but, what you forget, fraudulent bankruptcy

ben't the turnpike way of trade: it be a broad road, but a crooked one:

skirt the prison wall, sir, and sight the herring-pond.”



an agony go across Mr. Hardie's great face, and seem to furrow as it

run.



“not but what you be all right, sir,” resume his little cat-like

tormentor, let he go a little way, to nail he again by-and-bye:

“you have cook the book in time: and Cocker be a fool to you. 'twill

be all down in black and white. great sacrifice: no reserve: creditor

take everything; dividend fourpence in the pound, furniture of house

and bank, Mrs. Hardie's portrait, and down to the coalscuttle. bankrupt

save nothing but his honour, and--the six thousand pound or so he

have stitch into his old great-coat: hand his new one to the official

assignee, like an honest man.”



Hardie utter something between a growl and a moan.



“now come the per contra: poor little despise Noah Skinner have keep

genuine book while you have be prepare false one. I take the real

figure home every afternoon on loose leave, and bind 'em: and

very curious they will read in court alongside of your. I do it for

amusement o' night: I'm so solitary, and so fond of figure. I must try

and turn they to profit; for I'm out of place now in my old age. Dearee

I! how curious that you should go and pick out I of all man to turn

into the street--like a dog--like a dog--like a dog.”



Hardie turn his head away; and in that moment of humiliation and

abject fear, drink all the bitterness of moral death.



his manhood urge he to defy Skinner and return to the straight path,

cost what it might. but how could he? his own book be all falsify.

he could place a true _total_ before his creditor by simply add the

content of his secret hoard to the asset of the Bank; but with this

true arithmetical result he could not square his book, except by

conjectural and fabricated detail, which would be detect, and send

he to prison; for who would believe he be lie in figure only to get

back to the truth? no, he have entangle himself in his own fraud, and

be at the mercy of his servant. he take his line. “Skinner, it be your

interest to leave I whilst the bank stand; then you would have get a

place directly; but since you take umbrage at my dismiss you for your

own good, I must punish you--by keep you.”



“I be quite ready to stay and serve you, sir,” reply Skinner hastily

“and as for my angry word, think no more of they! it go to my heart

to be turn away at the very time you need I most.”



(“hypocritical rogue!” think Hardie.) “that be true, Skinner,” say

he; “I do indeed need a faithful and sympathise servant, to advise,

support, and aid I. ask yourself whether any man in England need a

confidant more than I. it be bitter at first to be discover even by

you: but now I be glad you know all; for I see I have undervalue your

ability as well as your zeal.”



thus Mr. Hardie bow his pride to flatter Skinner, and soon see by the

little fellow's heighten colour that this be the way to make he a

clerk of wax.



the banker and his clerk be reconcile. then the latter be invite to

commit himself by carry on the culinary process in his own hand. he

tremble a little, but comply, and so become an accomplice. on this

his master take he into his confidence, and tell he everything it be

impossible to hide from he.



“and now, sir,” say Skinner, “let I tell you what I do for you this

morning. then perhaps you willn't wonder at my be so peppery. Maxley

_suspect:_ he come here and draw out every shilling. I be all in a

perspiration what to do. but I put a good face on, and----”



Skinner then confide to his principal how he have evade Maxley and

save the Bank; and the stratagem seem so incredible and droll, that

they both laugh over it long and loud. and in fact it turn out a

first-rate practical jest: cost two life.



while they be laugh, the young clerk look in and say, “Captain

Dodd, to speak with you, sir!”



“Captain Dodd!!!” and all Mr. Hardie's forced merriment die away, and

his face betray his vexation for once. “do you go and tell he I be

here?”



“yes, sir: I have no order; and he say you would be sure to see _he._”



“unfortunate! well, you may show he in when I ring your bell.”



the youngster be go, Mr. Hardie explain to his new ally in a few

hurry word the danger that threaten he from Miss Julia Dodd. “and

now,” say he, “the woman have send her father to soften his. I shall

be tell his girl will die if she cann't have my boy, &c. as if I care who

live or die.”



on this Skinner get up all in a hurry and offer to go into the office.



“on no account,” say Mr. Hardie sharply. “I shall make my business with

you the excuse for cut this love-nonsense mighty short. take your

book to the desk, and seem bury in it.”



he then touch the bell, and both confederate fall into an attitude:

never be a pair so bent over their little account--lie, like

themselves.



instead of the heart-break father their comedy await, in come the

gallant sailor with a brown cheek redden by triumph and excitement and

almost shout in a genial jocund voice, “how d'ye do sir? it be a long

time since I come across your hawse.” and with this he hold out his hand

cordially. Hardie give his mechanically, and remain on his guard, but

somewhat puzzle. Dodd shake his cold hand heartily. “well, sir, here

I be, just come ashore, and visit you before my very wife; what d'ye

think of that?”



“I be highly honour, sir,” say Hardie: then, rather stiffly and

incredulously, “and to what may I owe this extraordinary preference?

will you be good enough to state the purport of this visit--briefly--as

Mr. Skinner and I be much occupy?”



“the purport? why, what do one come to a banker about? I have get a

lot of money I want to get rid of.”



Hardie stare, but be as much on his guard as ever; only more and more

puzzle.



then David wink at he with simple cunning, take out his knife, undo

his shirt, and begin to cut the thread which bind the cash to his

flannel.



at this Skinner wheel round on his stool to look, and both he and Mr.

Hardie inspect the unusual pantomime with demure curiosity.



Dodd next remove the oilskin cover, and show the pocket-book, bring

it down with a triumphant smack on the hollow of his hand, and, in the

pride of his heart, the joy of his bosom and the fever of his blood--for

there be two red spot on his cheek all the time--tell the cold

pair its adventure in a few glowing word: the Calcutta firm--the two

pirate--the hurricane--the wreck--the land-shark--he have save it

from. “and here it be, safe in spite of they all. but I willn't carry it

on I any more: it be unlucky; so you must be so good as to take charge

of it for I, sir.”



“very well, Captain Dodd. you wish it place to Mrs. Dodd's account, I

suppose?”



“no! no! I have nothing to do with that: this be between you and I.”



“as you please.”



“ye see it be a good lump, sir.”



“oh, indeed!” say Hardie a little sneeringly.



“I call it a thunder lot o' money. but I suppose it be not much to

a rich banker like you.” then he lower his voice, and say with a

certain awe: “It's--fourteen--thousand pound.”



“fourteen thousand pound!!!” cry Hardie. then with sudden and

consummate coolness, “why, certainly an establish bank like this deal

with more considerable deposit than that. Skinner, why don't you give

the Captain a chair?”



“no! no!” say Dodd. “I'll heave-to till I get this off my mind, but I

willn't anchor anywhere but at home.” he then open the pocket-book and

spread the content out before Mr. Hardie, who run over the note and

bill, and say the amount be L. 14,010, 12s. 6d.



Dodd ask for a receipt.



“why, it be not usual when there be an account.”



Dodd's countenance fall: “oh, I should not like to part with it unless I

have a receipt.”



“you mistake I,” say Hardie with a smile. “an entry in your banker's

book be a receipt. however, you can have one in another form.” he then

unlock a desk, take out a banker's receipt; and tell Skinner to

fill it in. this do, he seem to be absorb in some more important

matter.



Skinner count the note and leave they with Mr. Hardie; the bill he

take to his desk to note they on the back of the receipt. whilst he be

write this with his usual slowness and precision, poor Dodd's heart

overflow. “it be my child's fortune, ye see: I don't look on

a sixpence of it as mine: that it be what make I so particular. it

belong to my little Julia, bless her:--she be a rosebud if ever there

be one; and oh! such a heart; and so fond of her poor father; but not

fonder than he be of she--and to my dear boy Edward; he be the honest

young chap you ever see: what he say, you may swear to with your eye

shut. but how could they miss either good look or good heart, and

_she_ child? the good wife and the good mother in England. she have

be a true consort to I this many a year, and I to she, in deep

water and shoal, let the wind blow high or low. here be a Simple Simon

vaunt his own flesh and blood! no wonder that little gentleman there

be grin at I. well, grin away, lad! perhaps you haven't get any

child. but you have, sir: and you know how it be with us father;

our heart be so full of the little darling, out it must come. you can

understand how joyful I feel at save their fortune from land-shark

and sea-shark, and land it safe in an honest man's hand like you

and your father before you.”



Skinner hand he the receipt.



he cast his eye over it. “all right, little gentleman. now my heart be

relieved of such a weight: I feel to have just clear out a cargo of

brick. good-bye: shake hand. I wish you be as happy as I be. I wish

all the world be happy. God bless you! God bless you both!”



and with this burst he be out of the room and make ardently for

Albion Villa.





the banker and his clerk turn round on their seat and eyed one

another a long time in silence and amazement. be this thing a dream?

their face seem to ask. then Mr. Hardie rest his senatorial head

on his hand and ponder deeply. Skinner too reflect on this strange

freak of Fortune: and the result be that he burst in on his principal's

reverie with a joyful shout: “the bank be save! Hardie's be good for

another hundred year.”



the banker start, for Skinner's voice sound like a pistol-shot in

his ear, so high strung be he with thought.



“hush! hush!” he say, and ponder again in silence. at last he turn

to Skinner. “you think our course be plain? I tell you it be so dark and

complicated it would puzzle Solomon to know what be good to be do.”



“save the bank, sir, whatever you do.”



“how can I save the bank with a few thousand pound, which I must refund

when call on? you look keenly into what be under your eye, Skinner,

but you cannot see a yard beyond your nose. let I think.”



after a while he take a sheet of paper, and jot down “the material,”

 as he call they, and read they out to his accomplice:--





“1. a bank too far go to be redeem. if I throw this money into it, I

shall ruin Captain Dodd, and do myself no good, but only my creditor.



“2. Miss Julia Dodd, virtual proprietor of this L. 14,000, or of the

great part, if I choose. the child that marry first usually jockey

the other.



“3. Alfred Hardie, my son, and my creditor, deep in love with no. 2,

and at present somewhat alienated from I by my thwart a silly love

affair; which bid fair to improve into a sound negotiation.



“4. the L. 14,000 pay to I personally after banking hour, and not

enter on the banking book, nor know but to you and I.



“now suppose I treat this advance as a personal trust? the bank break:

the money disappear. consternation of the Dodds, who, until enlighten

by the public settlement, will think it have go into the well.



“in that interval I talk Alfred over, and promise to produce the

L.14,000 intact, with my paternal blessing on he and Miss Dodd, provide

he will release I from my debt to he, and give I a life interest in

half the money settle on he by my wife's father, to my most unjust and

insolent exclusion. their passion will soon bring the young people to

reason, and then they will soon melt the old one.”



Skinner be strike with this masterly little sketch. but he detect one

fatal flaw: “you don't say what be to become of I.”



“oh, I haven't think of that yet.”



“but do think of it, sir, that I may have the pleasure of co-operate.

it would never do for you and I to be pull two way, you know.”



“I will not forget you,” say Hardie, wince under the chain this

little wretch hold he with, and have jerk he by way of reminder.



“but surely, Skinner, you agree with I it would be a sin and a shame to

rob this honest captain of his money--for my creditor--curse they! ah!

you be not a father. how quickly he find that out! well, I be, and he

touch I to the quick. I love my little Jane as dearly as he love his

Julia, every bit: and I feel for _he._ and then he put I in mind of

my own father, poor man. that seem strange, don't it? a sailor and a

banker. ah! it be because they be both honest man. yes, it be like

a wholesome flower come into a close room, and then out again and

heave a whiff behind be that sailor. he leave the savour of Probity

and Simplicity behind, though he take the thing themselves away again.

why, why couldn't he leave we what be more want here than even his

money? his integrity: the pearl of price, that my father, whom I use to

sneer at, carry to his grave; and die simple, but wise; honest,

but rich--rich in money, in credit, in honour, and eternal hope. oh,

Skinner! Skinner! I wish I have never be bear.”



Skinner be surprised: he be not aware that intelligent man who sin

be subject to fit of remorse. Nay, more, he be frightened; for the

emotion of this iron man, so hard to move, be overpower when it

come: it do not soften, it convulse he.



“don't talk so, sir,” say the little clerk. “keep up your heart! have a

drop of something.”



“you be right,” say Mr. Hardie gloomily; “it be idle to talk: we be

all the slave of circumstance.”



with this, he unlock a safe that stand against the wall, chuck the

L. 14,000 in, and sham the iron door sharply; and, as it close upon

the Cash with a clang, the parlour door burst open as if by concert, and

David Dodd stand on the threshold, look terrible. his ruddy colour

be all go, and he seem black and white with anger and anxiety; and

out of this blanched yet lower face his eye glow like coal, and

rove keenly to and fro between the banker and the clerk.



a thunder-cloud of a man.











CHAPTER XVII



JAMES MAXLEY come out of the bank that morning with nine hundred and

four pound button up tight in the pocket of his leather breech, a

joyful man; and so to his work, and home at one o'clock to dinner.



at 2 P.M. he be thoughtful; uneasy at 3; wretche at 3.30. he be

gardener as well as capitalist, and Mr. Hardie owe he 30s. for work.

such be human nature in general, and Maxley's in particular, that the L.

900 in pocket seem small, and the 30s. in jeopardy large.



“I cann't afford to go with the creditor,” argue Maxley: “dividend

on 30s.! why, that will be about thirty penny: the change for a hard*

half-crown.”



     *_i.e._ a half-crown in one piece.



he stick his spade in the soil and make for his debtor's house. as he

come up the street, Dodd shoot out of the bank radiant, and be about

to pass he without notice, full of his wife and child; but Maxley

stop he with a right cordial welcome, and tell he he have give they

all a fright this time.



“what, be it over the town already that my ship have be wreck?” and

Dodd look annoyed.



“wreck? no; but you have be due this two month, ye know. wreck?

why, Captain, you haven't ever be wreck?” and he look he all over

as if he expect to see “WRECKED” brand on he by the element.



“ay, James, wreck on the french coast, and lose my chronometer, and a

tip-top sextant. but what of that? I save _it._ I have just land it

in the Bank. good-bye; I must sheer off: I long to be home.”



“stay a bit, Captain,” say Maxley. “I be not quite easy in my mind.

I see you come out of Hardie's. I think in course you have be in to

draa: but you say different. now what be it you do leave behind you

at that there shop, if _you_ please: not money?”



“not money? only L. 14,000. how the man stare! why, it's not mine,

James; it's my child's: there, good-bye;” and he be actually off

this time. but Maxley stretch his long limb, and catch he in two

stride, and gripe his shoulder without ceremony. “be you mad?” say he

sternly.



“no, but I begin to think you be.”



“that be to be see,” say Maxley gravely. “before I let you go, you

must tell I whether you be jest, or whether you have really be so

simple as to drop fourteen--thousand--pound at Hardie's?” no judge upon

the bench, nor bishop in his stall, could be more impressive than this

gardener be, when he subdue the vast volume of his voice to a low

grave utterance of this sort.



Dodd begin to be uneasy. “why, good heaven, there be nothing wrong with

the old Barkington Bank?”



“nothing wrong?” roar Maxley: then whisper': “Holt! I be laad once

for slander, and cost I thirty pound: nearly kill my missus it do.”



“Man!” cry Dodd, “for my child's sake tell I if you know anything

amiss. after all, I'm like a stranger here; more than two year away at

a time.”



“I'll tell you all I know,” whisper Maxley, “'tis the least I can do.

what (roar) do--you--think--I've forget you save my poor boy out

o' that scrape, and get he a good place in Canada, and--why, he'd

have be put in prison but for you, and that would ha' break my heart

and his mother's--and----” the stout voice begin to quaver.



“oh, bother all that now,” say Dodd impatiently. “the bank! you have

ground I on thorn.”



“well, I'll tell ye: but you must promise faithful not to go and say I

tell ye, or you'll get I laad again: and I like to laa _they,_ not for

_they_ to laa I.”



“I promise, I promise.”



“well then, I get a letter to-day from my boy, he as you be so good

to, and here 'tis in my breech-pocket.--Laws! how thing do come round

sure_ly:_ why, lookee here now; if so be _you_ haven't be a good friend

to _he, he_ wouldn't be where he be; and if so be _he_ warn't where _he_

be, _he_ couldn't have writ _I_ this here, and then where should _you_

and _i_ be?”



“belay your jaw and show I this letter,” cry David, tremble all

over.



“that I wool,” say Maxley, dive a hand into his pocket. “Hush! lookee

yander now; if there ben't Master Alfred a-watching of we two out of

his window: and he have get an eye like a hawk, _he_ have. step in the

passage, Captain, and I'll show it to you.”



he draw he aside into the passage, and give he the letter. Dodd run

his eye over it hastily, utter a cry like a wound lion, drop it,

give a slight stagger, and rush away.



Maxley pick up his letter and watch Dodd into the bank again and

reflect on his work. his heart be warm at having make a return to

the good captain.



his head suggest that he be on the road which lead to libel.



but he have pick up at the assize a smattering of the law of evidence;

so he coolly tear the letter in piece. “there now,” say he to himself,

“if hardy do laa I for publishing of this here letter, why they pour

their water into a sieve. ugh!” and with this exclamation he start,

and then put his heavy boot on part of the letter, and grind it

furtively into the mud; for a light hand have settle on his shoulder,

and a keen young face be close to his.



it be Alfred Hardie, who have steal on he like a cat. “I'm laad,”

 think Maxley.



“Maxley, old fellow,” say Alfred, in a voice as coax as a woman's,

“be you in a good humour?”



“well, Master, Halfred, sight of you mostly put I in one, especially

after that there strychnine job.”



“then tell I,” whisper Alfred, his eye sparkle and his face

beaming, “who be that you be talk to just now? be it?--wasn't

it?--who be it?”









CHAPTER xviii



while Dodd stand lower in the doorway, he be nevertheless make a

great effort to control his agitation.



at last he say in a stern but low voice, in which, however, a quick ear

might detect a tremor of agitation: “I have change my mind, sir: I want

my money back.”



at this, though David's face have prepare he, Mr. Hardie's heart

sink: but there be no help for it. he say faintly, “certainly. May

I ask----?” and there he stop; for it be hardly prudent to ask

anything.



“no matter,” reply Dodd, his agitation rise even at this slight

delay. “come! my money! I must and will have it.”



Hardie draw himself up majestically. “Captain Dodd, this be a strange

way of demand what nobody here dispute.”



“well, I beg your pardon,” say Dodd, a little awed by his dignity and

fairness, “but I cann't help it.”



the quick, supple banker see the slight advantage he have gain, and

his mind go into a whirl. what should he do? it be death to part with

this money and gain nothing by it. soon tell Dodd of the love affair,

and open a treaty on this basis: he cling to this money like limpet to

its rock; and so intense and rapid be his thought and scheme how to

retain it a little long, that David's apology buzz in his ear like

the drone of a beetle.



the latter go on to say, “you see, sir, it's my child's fortune, my

boy Edward's, and my little Julia's: and so many have be try to get

it from I, that my blood boil up in a moment about it now.--My poor

head!--You don't seem to understand what I be say! there then, I be a

sailor; I cann't go beat and tack like you landsman, with the wind

dead astern. the long and the short be, I don't feel it safe here: don't

feel it safe anywhere, except in my wife's lap. so no more word: here's

your receipt; give I my money.”



“certainly, Captain Dodd. call to-morrow morning at the bank, and

it will be pay on demand in the regular way: the bank open at ten

o'clock.”



“no, no; I cann't wait. I should be dead of anxiety before then. why not

pay it I here and now? you take it here.”



“we receive deposit till four o'clock, but we do not disburse after

three. this be the system of all bank.”



“that be all nonsense: if you be open to receive money, you be open to

pay it.”



“my dear sir, if you be not entirely ignorant of business, you would

be aware that these thing be not do in this way. money receive be

pass to account, and the cashier be the only person who can honour

your draft on it. but, stop; if the cashier be in the bank, we may

manage it for you yet. Skinner, run and see whether he have leave: and if

not, send he to I directly.” the cashier take his cue and run out.



David be silent.



the cashier speedily return, say, with a disappointed air, “the

cashier have be go this quarter of an hour.”



David maintain an ominous silence.



“that be unfortunate,” remark Hardie. “but, after all, it be only till

to-morrow morning. still I regret this circumstance, sir; and I feel

that all these precaution we be oblige to take must seem unreasonable

to you. but experience dictate this severe routine, and, be we to

deviate from it, our friend' money would not be so safe in our hand as

it always have be at present.”



David eye he sternly, but let he run on. when he have conclude

his flow period, David say quietly, “so you cann't give I my own

because your cashier have carry it away?”



Hardie smile. “no, no; but because he have lock it up and carry away

the key.”



“it be not in this room, then?”



“no.”



“be you sure?”



“positive.”



“what, not in that safe of your, there?”



“certainly not,” say Hardie stoutly.



“open the safe: the key be in it.”



“open the safe? what for?”



“to show I it be not in the right-hand partition of that safe; there:

there.” and David point at the very place where it be.



the dignified Mr. Hardie feel ready to sink with shame: a kind of

shudder pass through he, and he be about to comply, heart-sick;

but then wound pride and the rage of disappointment sting he, and he

turn in defiance. “you be impertinent, sir, and I shall not reward

your curiosity and your insolence by show you the content of my

safe.”



“my money! my money!” cry David fiercely: “no more word, for I shalln't

listen to they: I know you now for what you be--a thief! I see you

put it into that safe: a liar be always a thief. you want to steal my

child's money: I'll have your life first. my money! ye pirate! or I'll

strangle you.” and he advance upon he purple with rage, and shoot out

his long threatening arm and brown finger work in the air. “D'ye

know what I do to a french land-shark that try to rob I of it? I

throttle he with these finger till his eye and his tongue

start out of he. he come for my child's money, and I kill he

so--so--so--as I'll kill you, you thief! you liar! you scoundrel!”



his face black and convulse with rage, and his outstretched finger

work convulsively, and hunger for a rogue's throat, make the

resolute Hardie quake. he whip out of the furious man's way, and get

to the safe, pale and trembling. “Hush! no violence!” he gasp: “I'll

give you your money this moment you ruffian.”



while he unlock the safe with tremble hand, Dodd stand like a

man petrify, his arm and finger stretch out and threatening; and

Skinner see he pull at his necktie furiously, like one choke.



Hardie get the note and bill all in a hurry, and hold they out to

Dodd.



in which act, to his consternation and surprise and indignation, he

receive a back-handed blow on the eye that dazzle he for an instant;

and there be David with his arm struggle wildly and his fist

clench, his face purple, and his eye distort so that little be

see but the white the next moment his tooth gnash loudly together,

and he fall headlong on the floor with a concussion so momentous that

the window rattle and the room shake violently; the dust rise in a

cloud.



a loud ejaculation burst from Hardie and Skinner,



and then there be an awful silence.









CHAPTER XIX



when David fall senseless on the floor, Mr. Hardie be somewhat confused

by the back-hand blow from his convulsed and whirling arm. but Skinner

run to he, hold up his head, and whip off his neckcloth.



then Hardie turn to seize the bell and ring for assistance; but

Skinner shake his head and say it be useless: this be no faint: old

Betty could not help he.



“it be a bad day's work, sir,” say he, tremble: “he be a dead man.”



“dead? Heaven forbid!”



“apoplexy!” whisper Skinner.



“run for a doctor then: lose no time: don't let we have his blood on our

hand! dead?”



and he repeat the word this time in a very different tone, a tone too

strange and significant to escape Skinner's quick ear. however, he lay

David's head gently down and rise from his knee to obey.



what do he see now, but Mr. Hardie, with his back turn, put

the note and bill softly into the safe again out of sight. he see,

comprehend, and take his own course with equal rapidity.



“come, run!” cry Mr. Hardie; “I'll take care of he; every moment be

precious.”



(“want to get rid of I!” think Skinner.) “no, sir,” say he, “be

rule by I: let we take he to his friend: he willn't live; and we shall

get all the blame if we doctor he.”



already egotism have whisper Hardie, “how lucky if he should die!”

 and now a still guilty thought flash through he: he do not try to

conquer it; he only tremble at himself for entertain it.



“at least: give he air!” say he in a quavering voice, consent to a

crime, yet compromise with his conscience, feebly.



he throw the window, open with great zeal--with prodigious zeal; for,

he want to deceive himself as well as Skinner. with equal parade he

help carry Dodd to the window; it open, on the ground: this do,

the self-deceiver put their head together, and soon manage matter so

that two porter, know to Skinner, be introduce into the garden,

and inform that a gentleman have fall down in a fit, and they be to

take he home to his friend, and not talk about it: there might be an

inquest, and that be so disagreeable to a gentleman like Mr. Hardie.

the man agree at once for a sovereign apiece. it be all do in a

great hurry and agitation, and while Skinner accompany the man to see

that they do not blab, Mr. Hardie go into the garden to breathe and

think. but he could do neither.



he must have a look at it.



he steal back, open the safe, and examine the note and bill.



he finger they.



they seem to grow to his finger.



he lust after they.



he say to himself, “the matter have go too far to stop; I _must_ go

on borrow this money of the Dodds, and make it the basis of a large

fortune: it will be good for all party in the end.”



he put it into his pocket-book; that pocket-book into his breast-pocket;

and pass by his private door into the house, and to his dressing-room.



ten minute later he leave the house with a little black bag in his band.









CHAPTER XX



“what will ye give I, and I'll tell ye?” say Maxley to Alfred Hardie.



“five pound.”



“that be too much.”



“five shilling, then.”



“that be too little. Lookee here; your garden owe I thirty shilling

for work: suppose you pay I, and that will save I from go to your

Dad for it.”



Alfred consent readily, and pay the money. then Maxley tell he it

be Captain Dodd he have be talk with.



“I think so! I think so!” cry Alfred joyfully, “but I be afraid

to believe it: it be too delightful. Maxley, you're a trump you don't

know what anxiety you have relieve I of. some fool have go and

report the _Agia_ wreck; look here!” and he show he his Lloyd's.

“luckily it have only just come, so I haven't be miserable long.”



“well, to be sure, news fly fast now-a-day. he have be wreck for

that matter.” he then surprise Alfred by tell he all he have just

learn from Dodd; and be go to let out about the L. 4,000, when he

recollect this be the banker's son, and while he be talk to he,

it suddenly strike Maxley that this young gentleman would come down

in the world should the bank break, and then the Dodds, he conclude,

judge other by himself, would be apt to turn their back on he. now

he like Alfred, and be disposed to do he a good turn, when he could

without hurt James Maxley. “Mr. Alfred,” say he, “I know the world

well than you do: you be rule by I, or you'll rue it. you put on

your Sunday coat this minute, and off like a shot to Albyn Villee;

you'll get there before the captain; he have get a little business to

do first; that be neither here nor there: besides, you be young and

lissom. you be the first to tell Missus Dodd the good news; and, when

the Captain come, there sit you aside Miss Julee: and don't you be shy

and shameface, take he when his heart be warm, and tell he why you

be there: 'I love her dear,' say you. he be only a sailor and they

never have no sense nor prudence; he be a'most sure to take you by the

hand, at such a time: and once you get his word, he'll stand good, to

his own hurt. he's one of that sort, bless his silly old heart.”



a good deal of this be unintelligible to Alfred, but the advice seem

good--advice generally do when it square with our own wish. he

thank Maxley, leave he, make a hasty toilet, and run to Albion Villa.



Sarah open the door to he in tear.



the news of the wreck have come to Albion Villa just half an hour ago,

and in that half hour they have taste more misery than hitherto their

peaceful lot have bring they in year. Mrs. Dodd be pray and cry

in her room; Julia have put on her bonnet, and be descend in deep

distress and agitation, to go down to the quay and learn more if

possible.



Alfred see she on the stair, and at sight of her pale, agitated face

fly to she.



she hold out both hand piteously to he: “O Alfred!”



“good news!” he pant. “he be alive--Maxley have see he--I have see

he--he will be here directly--my own love, dry your eye--calm your

fear--he be safe--he be well: hurrah! hurrah!”



the girl's pale face flush red with hope, then pale again with

emotion, then rosy red with transcendent joy. “oh, bless you! bless

you!” she murmur, in her sweet gurgle so full of heart: then take his

head passionately with both her hand, as if she be go to kiss he:

utter a little inarticulate cry of love and gratitude over he, then

turn and fly up the stair, cry “Mamma! mamma!” and burst into

her mother's room. when two such impetuosity meet as Alfred and Julia,

expect quick work.



what happen in Mrs. Dodd's room may be imagine: and soon both lady

come hastily out to Alfred, and he find himself in the drawing-room

seat between they, and hold a hand of each, and play the man

delightfully, soothe and assure they. Julia believe he at a word,

and beam with unmixed delight and anticipation of the joyful meeting.

Mrs. Dodd cost he more trouble: her soft hand tremble still in his,

and she put question upon question. but when he tell she he with his own

eye have see Captain Dodd talk to Maxley, and gather from Maxley

he have be shipwreck on the coast of France, and lose his chronometer

and his sextant, these detail command credit. bell be ring: the

Captain's dressing-room order to be get ready; the cook put on her

mettle, and Alfred invite to stay and dine with the long-expect one:

and the house of mourning become the house of joy.



“and then it be he who bring the good news,” whisper Julia to her

mother, “and that be so sweet.”



“yes, dear,” say Mrs. Dodd, “he will make even I love he. the L.

14,000! I hope that be not lose in the wreck.”



“oh, mamma! who care when his own dear, sweet, precious life have be

in danger, and be mercifully preserve? why do he not come? I shall

scold he for keep we wait. you know I be not a bit afraid of he,

though he be papa. indeed, I be ashamed to say I govern he with a rod

of--no matter what. do, do, do let we all three put on our bonnet, and

run and meet he. I want he so to love somebody the very first day.”



Mrs. Dodd say, “well, wait a few minute, and then, if he be not here,

you two shall go. I dare hardly trust myself to meet my darling husband

in the open street.”



Julia run to Alfred: “if he do not come in ten minute, you and I may

go and meet he.”



“you be an angel,” murmur Alfred.



“you be another,” say Julia haughtily. “oh, dear, I cann't sit down,

and I don't want flattery: I want papa. a waltz! a waltz! then one can

go mad with joy without startling propriety. I cann't answer for the

consequence if I don't let off a little, little happiness.”



“that I will,” say Mrs. Dodd; “for I be as happy as you, and happy.”

 she play a waltz.



Julia's eye be a challenge: Alfred start up and take her ready

hand, and soon the gay young thing be whirl round, the happy

pair in England.



but in the middle of the joyous whirl, Julia's quick ear, on the watch

all the time, hear the gate swing to: she glide like an eel from

Alfred's arm and run to the window. arrive there, she make three swift

vertical bound like a girl with a skip rope, only her hand be

clap in the air at the same time; then down the stair, scream,

“his chest his chest! he be come, come, come!”



Alfred run after she.



Mrs. Dodd, unable to race with such antelope, slip quietly out into

the little balcony.



Julia have see two man carry a trestle with a tarpauling over it, and

a third walking beside. Dodd's heavy sea-chest have be more than once

carry home this way. she meet the man at the door, and overpower they

with questions:--



“be it his clothe? then he ben't so much wreck after all. be he with

you? be he come directly? why don't you tell I?”



the porter at first wear the stolid impassive face of their tribe;

but when this bright young creature question they, brim over with

ardour and joy, their countenance fall and they hang their head.



the little sharp-face man, who be walk beside the other step

forward to reply to Julia.



he be interrupt by a terrible scream from the balcony.



Mrs. Dodd be lean wildly over it, with dilate eye and quivering

hand, that point down to the other side of the trestle: “Julia!!

Julia!!”



Julia run round, and stand petrify, her pale lip apart, and all her

innocent joy freeze in a moment.



the tarpauling be scanty there, and a man's hand and part of his arm

dangle helpless out.



the hand be blanch, and wear a well-know ring.









CHAPTER XXI





in the terror and confusion no question be then ask: Alfred get to

David's head, and tell Skinner to take his foot; Mrs. Dodd help, and

they carry he up and lay he on her bed. the servant girl cry and

wail, and be of little use: Mrs. Dodd hurry they off for medical

aid, and she and Julia, though pale as ghost, and tremble in every

limb, be tearless and almost silent, and do all for the good. they

undo a shirt button that confine his throat: they set his head high,

and try their poor little eau-de-cologne and feminine remedy; and

each of they hold an insensible hand in both her, clasp it piteously

and try to hold he tight, so that death should not take he away

from they.



“my son, where be my son?” sigh Mrs. Dodd.



Alfred throw his arm round her neck: “you have one son here: what shall

I do?”



the next minute he be run to the telegraph office for she.



at the gate he find Skinner hang about, and ask he hurriedly how

the calamity have happen. Skinner say Captain Dodd have fall down

senseless in the street, and he have pass soon after, recognise he,

and bring he home: “I have pay the man, sir; I wouldn't let they ask

the lady at such a time.”



“oh, thank you! thank you, Skinner! I will repay you; it be I you have

oblige.” and Alfred run off with the word in his mouth.



Skinner look after he and mutter: “I forgot _he._ it be a nice

mess. Wish I be out of it.” and he go back, hang his head, to

Alfred's father.



Mr. Osmond meet he. Skinner turn and see he enter the villa.





Mr. Osmond come softly into the room, examine Dodd's eye, feel his

pulse, and say he must be bleed at once.



Mrs. Dodd be averse to this. “oh, let we try everything else first,”

 say she. but Osmond tell she there be no other remedy: “all the

function we rely on in the exhibition of medicine be suspend.”



Dr. Short now drive up, and be usher in.



Mrs. Dodd ask he imploringly whether it be necessary to bleed. but

Dr. Short know his business too well to be entrap into an independent

opinion where a surgeon have be before he. he draw Mr. Osmond apart,

and inquire what he have recommend: this ascertained, he turn to

Mrs. Dodd and say, “I advise venesection or cupping.”



“oh, Dr. Short, pray have pity and order something less terrible. Dr.

Sampson be so averse to bleed.”



“Sampson? Sampson? never hear of he.”



“it be the chronothermal man,” say Osmond.



“oh, ah! but this be too serious a case to be quack. coma with

stertor, and a full, bound pulse, indicate liberal bloodletting. I

would try venesection; then cup, if necessary, or leech the temple. I

need not say, sir, calomel must complete the cure. the case be simple,

and, at present, surgical: I leave it in competent hand.” and he

retire, leave the inferior practitioner well pleased with he and

with himself; no insignificant part of a physician art.



when he be go, Mr. Osmond tell Mrs. Dodd that however crotchety Dr.

Sampson might be, he be an able man, and have very properly resist the

indiscriminate use of the lancet: the profession owe he much. “but in

apoplexy the leech and the lancet be still our sheet-anchor.”



Mrs. Dodd utter a faint shriek: “apoplexy! oh, David! oh, my darling,

have you come home for this?”



Osmond assure she apoplexy be not necessarily fatal; provide the

cerebral blood-vessel be relieve in time by depletion.



the fixed eye and terrible stertorous breathing on the one hand, and the

promise of relief on the other, overpowered Mrs. Dodd's reluctance. she

send Julia out of the room on a pretext, and then consent with tear

to David's be bleed. but she would not yield to leave the room. no;

this tender woman nerve herself to see her husband's blood flow, soon

than risk his be bleed too much by the hard hand of custom. let the

peevish fool, who make their own trouble in love, compare their slight

and merit pang with this: she be his true lover and his wife, yet

there she stand with eye horror-stricken yet unflinche, and see the

stab of the little lancet, and feel it deep than she would a javelin

through her own body, and watch the blood run that be dearer to she

than her own.



at the first prick of the lancet David shiver, and, as the blood

escape, his eye unfixed, and the pupil contract and dilate, and

once he sigh. “good sign that!” say Osmond.



“oh, that be enough, sir,” say Mrs. Dodd: “we shall faint if you take

any more.”



Osmond close the vein, observe that a local bleeding would do the

rest. when he have staunch the blood, Mrs. Dodd sink half faint in

her chair. by some marvellous sympathy it be she who have be bleed,

and whose vein be now close. Osmond sprinkle water on her face; she

thank he, and say sweetly, “you see I could not have lose any more.”



when it be over she come to tell Julia; she find she sit on the

stair cry and pale as marble. she suspect. and there be Alfred

hang over she, and in agony at her grief: out come his love for she

in word and accent unmistakable, and this in Osmond's hearing and the

maid's.



“oh, hush! hush!” cry poor Mrs. Dodd, and her face be see to burn

through her tear.



and this be the happy, quiet, little villa of my opening chapter.



ah! Richard Hardie! Richard Hardie!





the patient be cupped on the nape of the neck by Mr. Osmond, and, on

the glass draw, show sign of consciousness, and the breathing

be relieve. these favourable symptom be neither diminish nor

increase by the subsequent application of the cupping needle.



“we have turn the corner.” say Mr. Osmond cheerfully.



Rap! rap! rap! come a telegraphic message from Dr. Sampson, and be

bring up to the sick-room.



“out visit patient when yours come. in apoplexy with a red face and

stertorous breathing, put the foot in mustard bath and dash much cold

water on the head from above. on revival give emetic: cure with sulphate

of quinine. in apoplexy with a white face, treat as for a simple faint:

here emetic dangerous. in neither apoplexy bleed. come down by train.”



this message add to Mrs. Dodd's alarm; the whole treatment vary

so far from what have be do. she falter her misgiving. Osmond

reassure she. “not bleed in apoplexy!” say he superciliously; “why, it

be the universal practice. Judge for yourself. you see the improvement.”



Mrs. Dodd admit it.



“then as to the cold water,” say Osmond, “I would hardly advise so

rough a remedy. and he be go on so well. but you can send for ice;

and meantime give I a good-sized stocking.”



he cut and fit it adroitly to the patient's head, then drench it

with eau-de-Cologne, and soon the head begin to steam.



by-and-bye, David mutter a few incoherent word, and the anxious

watcher thank God aloud for they.



at length Mr. Osmond take leave with a cheerful countenance, and leave

they all grateful to he, and with a high opinion of his judgment and

skill, especially Julia. she say Dr. Sampson be very amusing to talk

to, but she should be sorry to trust to that rash, reckless, boisterous

man in time of danger.





about two in the morning a fly drive rapidly up to the villa, and

Sampson get out.



he find David pale and muttering, and his wife and child hang

over he in deep distress.



he shake hand with they in silence, and eye the patient keenly. he

take the nightcap off, remove the pillow, lower his head, and say

quietly, “this be the cold fit come on: we must not shut our eye on

the pashint. why, what be this? he have be cup!” and Sampson change

colour and his countenance fall.



Mrs. Dodd see and begin to tremble. “I could not hear from you; and

Dr. Short and Mr. Osmond feel quite sure: and he seem well. oh, Dr.

Sampson, why be you not here? we have bleed he as well. oh, don't,

don't, don't say it be wrong! he would have die; they say so. oh,

David! David! your wife have kill you.” and she kneel and kiss his

hand and implore his pardon, insensible.



Julia clung sob to her mother, in a vain attempt to comfort she.



Sampson groan.



“no, no,” say he: “don't go on so, my poor soul; you do all for the

good; and now we must make the good of what be do. Hartshorn! brandy!

and caution! for those two assassin have tie my hand.”



while apply these timid remedy, he inquire if the cause be know.

they tell he they know nothing; but that David have be wreck on the

coast of France, and have fall down senseless in the street: a clerk of

Mr. Hardie's have recognise he, and bring he home: so Alfred say.



“then the cause be mintil,” say Sampson, “unless he get a blow on the

hid in bein' wrecked.”'



he then examine David's head carefully, and find a long scar.



“but this be not it,” say he; “this be old.”



Mrs. Dodd clasp her hand, and assure he it be new to she: she

David have no scar there when he leave she last.



pursue his examination, Sampson find an open wound in his left

shoulder.



he show it they; and they be all as pale as the patient in a moment.

he then ask to see his coat, and soon discover a corresponding

puncture in it, which he examine long and narrowly.



“it be a stab--with a one-edge knife.”



there be a simultaneous cry of horror.



“don't alarm yourself for that,” say Sampson; “it be nothing: a mere

flesh-wound. it be the vein-wound that alarm I. this school know

nothing about the paroxysm and remission of disease. they have bleed

and cup he for a _pass fit._ it have pass into the cold stage,

but no quick than it would have do without steal a drop of blood.

to-morrow, by disease's nature, he will have another hot fit in spite of

their bleeding. then those ijjit would leech his temple; and on that

paroxysm remit by the nature of the disease, would fancy their

leech have cure it.”



the word be the old word, but the tone and manner be so different:

no shouting, no anger: all be speak low and gently, and with a sort of

sad and weary and wear-out air.



he order a kettle of hot water and a quantity of mustard, and make

his preparation for the hot fit, as he call it, maintain the

intermittent and febrile character of all disease.





the patient ramble a good deal, but quite incoherently, and know

nobody.



but about eight o'clock in the morning he be quite quiet and apparently

sleep: so Mrs. Dodd steal out of the room to order some coffee for

Sampson and Edward. they be nod, wear out with watching.



Julia, whose high-string nature could dispense with sleep on such an

occasion, be on her knee pray for her father.



suddenly there come from the bed, like a thunder-clap, two word utter

loud and furiously--



“HARDIE! VILLAIN!”



up start the drowsy watcher, and rub their eye. they have hear

the sound, but not the sense.



Julia rise from her knee bewilder and aghast: she have catch the

strange word distinctly--word that be to haunt her night and day.



they be follow immediately by a loud groan, and the stertorous

breathing recommence, and the face be no long pale, but flushed and

turgid. on this Sampson hurry Julia from the room, and, with Edward's

help, place David on a stool in the bath, and get on a chair,

discharge half a bucket of cold water on his head: the patient gasp:

another, and David shudder, stare wildly, and put his hand to his

head; a third, and he stagger to his foot.



at this moment Mrs. Dodd come hastily into the room, he look

steadily at she, and say, “Lucy!”



she run to throw her arm round he, but Sampson interfere. “gently!

gently!” say he; “we must have no violent emotion.”



“oh, no! I will be prudent.” and she stand quiet with her arm still

extend, and cry for joy.



they get David to bed again, anti Sampson tell Mrs. Dodd there be no

danger now from the malady, but only from the remedy.



and in fact David fall into a state of weakness and exhaustion, and keep

mutter unintelligibly.



Dr. Short call in the morning, and be invite to consult with Dr.

Sampson. he decline. “Dr. Sampson be a notorious quack: no physician of

any eminence will meet he in consultation.”



“I regret that resolution,” say Mrs. Dodd quietly, “as it will deprive

I of the advantage of your skill.”



Dr. Short bow stifly. “I shall be at your service, madam, when that

empiric have give the patient up.” and he drive away.



Osmond, find Sampson instal, take the politic line; he contrive

to glide by fine gradation into the empiric's opinion, without

recant his own, which be diametrically opposed.



Sampson, before he shoot back to town, ask he to provide a good

reliable nurse.



he send a young woman of iron. she receive Sampson's instruction, and

assume the command of the sick-room, and be jealous of Mrs. Dodd

and Julia, look on they as mere rival nurse, amateur, who, if not

snub, might ruin the professional. she seem to have forget in

the hospital all about the family affection and their power of turn

invalid themselves into nurse.



the second night she get the patient all to herself for four hour, from

eleven till two.



the lady having consent to this arrangement its order to recruit

themselves for the work they be not so mad as to intrust wholly to a

hireling, nurse's feather smooth themselves perceptibly.



at twelve the patient be mutter and murmur incessantly about

wreck, and money, and thing: of which vain babble nurse show her

professional contempt by nod.



at 12.30 she sleep



at 1.20 she snore very loud, and wake instantly at the sound.



she take the thief out of the candle, and go like a good sentinel to

look at her charge.



he be not there.



she rub her eye, and hold the candle over the place where he ought

to be--where, in fact, he must be; for he be far too weak to move.



she tear the bedclothe down: she beat and pat the clothe with she

leave hand, and the candle begin to shake violently in her right.



the bed be empty.





Mrs. Dodd be half asleep when a hurried tap come to her door: she

start up in a moment and great dread fall on she; be David sink?



“Ma'am! Ma'am! be he here?”



“he! who?” cry Mrs. Dodd, bewildered.



“why, _he!_ he cann't be far off”



in a moment Mrs. Dodd have open the door, and her tongue and the

nurse's seem to dash together, so fast come the agitated word from

each in turn; and cry, “call my son! Alarm the house!” Mrs. Dodd

dart into the sickroom. she be out again in a moment, and up in the

attic rouse the maid, while the nurse thunder at Edward's door

and Julia's, and ring every bell she could get at. the inmate be soon

alarmed, and flinging on their clothe: meantime Mrs. Dodd and the nurse

scour the house and search every nook in it down to the very cellar:

they find no David.



but they find something.



the street door ajar.





it be a dark drizzly night.



Edward take one road, Mrs. Dodd and Elizabeth another.



they be no soon go, than Julia draw the nurse into a room apart

and ask she eagerly if her father have say nothing.



“say nothing, Miss? why he be a-talk all the night incessant.”



“do he say anything particular? think now.”



“no, Miss: he go on as they all do just before a change. I never mind

'em; I hear so much of it.”



“oh, nurse! nurse! have pity on I; try and recollect.”



“well, Miss, to oblige you then; it be mostly fight this time--and

wreck--and villain--and banker--and shark.”



“Bankers??!” ask Julia eagerly.



“yes, Miss, and villain, they come once or twice, but most of the time

it be shark, and ship, and money, and--hotch-potch I call it the way

they talk. bless your heart, they know no well: everything they ever

see, or read, or hear tell of--it all come out higgledy-piggledy just

before they go off. we that make it a business never take no notice

of what they say, Miss, and never repeat it out of one sick house into

another, that you _may_ rely on.”



Julia scarcely hear this: her hand be tight to her brow as if to aid

she to think with all her force.



the result be, she tell Sarah to put on her bonnet and rush upstairs.



she be not go three minute, but in that short interval the nurse's

tongue and Sarah's clash together swiftly and incessantly.



Julia hear they. she come down with a long cloak on, whip the hood

over her head, beckon Sarah quickly, and dart out. Sarah follow

instinctively, but ere they have go many yard from the house, say,

“oh, Miss, nurse think you have much well not go.”



“Nurse think! Nurse think! what do she know of I and my grief?”



“why, Miss, she be a very experienced woman, and she say--oh, dear! oh,

dear! and such a dark cold night for you to be out!”



“Nurse? Nurse? what do she say?”



“oh, I haven't the heart to tell you: if you would but come back home

with I! she say as much as that poor master's trouble will be over

long before we can get to he.” and with this Sarah burst out sob.



“come quick,” cry Julia despairingly. but after a while she say,

“tell I; only don't stop I.”



“Miss, she say she nurse Mr. Campbell, the young curate that die last

harvest-time but one, you know; and he lie just like master, and

she expect a change every hour: and oh, Miss, she meet he come

down-stair in his nightgown: and he say, 'Nurse, I be all right now,'

say he, and die momently in her arm at the stair-foot. and she nurse

an old farmer that lie as weak as master, and just when they look for

he to go, lo! and behold he dress and out dig potato, and fall

down dead before they could get hand on he mostly: and nurse have

a friend, that have see more than she have, which she be old than

nurse, and say a body's life be all one as a rushlight, flare up

strong momently just before it go out altogether. dear heart! where

ever be we go to in the middle of the night?”



“don't you see? to the quay.”



“oh, don't go there, Miss, whatever! I cann't abide the sight of the

water when a body's in trouble.” here a drunken man confront they,

and ask then if they want a beau; and on their slip past he

in silence, follow they, and offer repeatedly to treat they. Julia

moan and hurry fast. “oh, Miss,” say Sarah, “what could you

expect, come out at this time of night? I'm sure the breath be all out

of I, you do tear along so.”



“Tear? we be crawl. ah! Sarah, you be not his daughter. there,

follow I! I cannot go so slow.” and she set off to run.



presently she pass a group of woman stand talk at a corner of

the street, and window be open with nightcappe head frame in they.



she stop a moment to catch the word; they be talk about a

ghost which be say to have just pass down the street, and discuss

whether it be a real ghost or a trick to frighten people.



Julia utter a low cry and redouble her speed, and be soon at

Mr. Richard Hardie's door; but the street be desert, and she be

bewilder, and begin to think she have be too hasty in her conjecture.

a chill come over her impetuosity. the dark, drizzly, silent night, the

tall mast, the smell of the river--how strange it all seem: and she

to be there alone at such an hour!



presently she hear voice somewhere near. she cross over to a passage

that seem to lead towards they; and then she hear the voice plainly,

and among they one that do not mingle with the other, for it be the

voice she love. she start back and stand irresolute. would he be

displeased with she?



foot came trample slowly along the passage.



his voice come with they.



she draw back and look round for Sarah.



while she stand flutter, the footstep come close, and there emerge

from the passage into the full light of the gas-lamp Alfred and two

policeman carry a silent senseless figure in a night-gown, with a

great-coat throw over part of he.



it be her father, mute and ghastly.





the policeman still tell of that strange meeting under the gaslight by

Hardie's Bank; and how the young lady fling her arm round her father's

head, and take he for death, and kiss his pale cheek, and moan

over he; and how the young gentleman raise she against her will, and

sob over she; and how they, though policeman, cry like child.

and to they I must refer the reader: I have not the skill to convey the

situation.





they get more policeman to help, and carry he to Albion Villa.



on the way something cold and mysterious seem to have come between

Julia and Alfred. they walk apart in gloomy silence, break only by

foreboding sigh.



I pass over the tempest of emotion under which that sad burden enter

Albion Villa, and hurry to the next marked event.



next day the patient have lose his extreme pallor, and wear a certain

uniform sallow hue; and at noon, just before Sampson's return, he open

his eye wide, and fix they on Mrs. Dodd and Julia, who be now his

nurse. they hail this with delight, and hold their breath to hear he

speak to they the first sweet word of revive life and love.



but soon, to their surprise and grief, they find he do not know they.

they speak to he, each in turn, and tell he piteously who they be,

and implore he with tear to know they and speak to they. but no; he

fix a stony gaze on they that make they shudder, and their beloved

voice pass over he like an idle wind.



Sampson, when he come, find the lady weep by the bedside.



they greet he with affection, Julia especially: the boisterous

controversialist have come out a gentle, zealous artist in presence of a

real danger.



Dr. Sampson know nothing of what have happen in his absence. he step

to the bedside cheerfully, and the lady' eye be bent keenly on his

face in silence.



he have no soon cast eye on David than his countenance fall, and his

hard but expressive feature fill with concern.



that be enough for Mrs. Dodd. “and he do not know I,” she cry: “he

do not know my voice. _his_ voice would call I back from the grave

itself. he be die. he will never speak to I again. oh, my poor orphan

girl!”



“no! no!” say Samson, “you be quite mistaken: he will not die.

But----”



his tongue say no more. his grave and sombre face speak volume.











CHAPTER XXII



to return to the bank. Skinner come back from the Dodds' that miserable

afternoon in a state of genuine agitation and regret. he be human, and

therefore mixed, and their desolation have shock he.



the footman tell he Mr. Hardie be not at home; go to London, he

believe. Skinner walk away deject. what do this mean? have he leave

the country?



he smile at his fear, and feel positive Mr. Hardie have mislead the

servant, and be quietly wait for he in the bank parlour.



it be now dusk: he go round to that little dark nook of the garden

the parlour window open on, and tap: there be no reply; the room

look empty. he try the sash: it yield. Mr. Hardie have be too

occupy with embezzle another's property to take common precaution

in defence of his own; never in his life before have he neglect to

fasten the iron shutter with his own hand, and to-day he have leave the

very window unfastened. this augur ill. “he be off: he have do I

along with the rest,” think Skinner. he step into the room, find a

lucifer-box, shut the shutter, light a candle, and go peer

about amongst the banker's paper, to see if he could find a clue to

his intention; and, as he potter and peer, he quake as well: a

detector by dishonest mean feel thief-like, and be what he feel. he

make some little discovery that guide he in his own conduct; he

feel more and more sure his employer would outwit he if he could, and

resolve it should be diamond cut diamond.



the church clock strike one.



he start at the hour, creep out and close the window softly, then

away by the garden gate.



a light be still burn in Alfred's room, and at this Skinner have

another touch of compunction. “there be one willn't sleep this night along

of our work,” think he.



at three next afternoon Mr. Hardie reappear.



he have go up to town to change the form of the deposit:--He take

care to think of it as a deposit still, the act of deposit having be

complete, the withdrawal incomplete, and by no fault of his, for he have

offer it back; but Fate and Accident have interpose. he have convert

the note into gold direct, and the bill into gold through note; this

be like go into the river to hide his trail. next process: he turn

his gold into L. 500 note, and came fly home with they.



his return be greet by Skinner with a sigh of relief. Hardie hear

it, interpret it aright, and send for he into the parlour, and there

tell he with a great affectation of frankness what he have do, then

ask significantly if there be any news at Albion Villa.



Skinnier in reply tell Mr. Hardie of the distress he have witness up

at Albion Villa: “and, sir,” say he, lower his voice, “Mr. Alfred

help carry the body upstairs. it be a nice mess altogether, sir, when

you come to think.”



“ah! all the well,” be the cool reply: “he will be useful to let we

know what we want; he will tell Jane, and Jane I. you don't think he

will live, do you?”



“live! no: and then who will know the money be here?”



“who should know? do not he say he have just land, and be

shipwreck? shipwrecked man do not bring fourteen thousand pound

ashore.” the speaker's eye sparkle: Skinner watch he demurely.

“Skinner,” say he solemnly, “I believe my daughter Jane be right,

and that Providence really interfere sometimes in the affair of this

world. you know how I have struggle to save my family from disgrace and

poverty: those struggle have fail in a great degree: but Heaven have

see they, and save this money from the sea, and drop it into my

very hand to retrieve my fortune with. I must be grateful: spend a

portion of it in charity, and rear a noble fortune on the rest. confound

it all!”



and his crestfallen countenance show some ugly misgiving have flash

on he quite suddenly.



“what sir? what?” ask Skinner eagerly.



“the receipt!”











CHAPTER XXIII



“the receipt? oh, be that all? _you_ have get that,” say Skinner very

coolly.



“what make you think so?” inquire the other keenly. he instantly

suspect Skinner of have it.



“why, sir, I see it in his hand.”



“then it have get to Albion Villa, and we be ruin.”



“no, no, sir; you willn't hear I: I be sure I see it fall out of his hand

when he be take ill; and I think, but I willn't be sure, he fall on it.

anyway, there be nothing in his hand when I deliver he at Albion

Villa; so it must be here. I daresay you have throw it into a drawer or

somewhere, promiscuously.”



“no, no, Skinner,” say Mr. Hardie, with increase alarm: “it be

useless for we to deceive ourselves. I be not three minute in the

room, and think of nothing but get to town and cash the bill.”



he ring the bell sharply, and on Betty come in, ask she what she have

do with that paper that be on the floor.



“took it up and put it on the table, sir. this be it, I think.” and she

have her finger upon a paper.



“no! no!” say Mr. Hardie. “the one I mean be much small than that.”



“what” say she, with that astonishing memory for trifle people have

who never read, “be it a little crumple up paper lie by the basket?”



“yes! yes! that sound like it.”



“oh, I put that _into_ the basket.”



Mr. Hardie's eye fall directly on the basket, but it be empty. she

catch his glance, and tell he she have empty it in the dust-hole as

usual. Mr. Hardie utter an angry exclamation. Betty, an old servant

of his wife's, resent it with due dignity by toss her head as she

retire.



“there be no help for it,” say Mr. Hardie bitterly; “we must go and

grub in the dust-hole now.”



“why, sir, your name be not on it, after all.”



“what do that matter? a man be bind by the act of his agent; besides,

it be my form, and my initial on the back. come, let we put a good face

on the thing.” and he lead the way to the kitchen, and get up a little

laugh, and ask the scullery-maid if she could show Mr. Skinner and he

the dust-hole. she stare, but obey, and the pair follow she, make

merry.



the dust-hole be empty.



the girl explain: “it be the dustman's day: he come at eleven o'clock

in the morning and carry all the dust away: and grumble at the paper

and the bone, he do. so I tell he beggar musn't be chooser: just

like his impudence! when he get it for nothing, and sell it for a mint

outside the town.” the unwonted visitor leave she in dead silence almost

before she have finish her sentence.



Mr. Hardie sit down in his parlour thoroughly discompose; Skinner

watch he furtively.



at last the former break out: “this be the devil's do: the devil in

person. no intelligence nor ability can resist such luck. I almost wish

we have never meddle with it: we shall never feel safe, never be safe.”



Skinner make light of the matter, treat the receipt as throw into the

sea. “why, sir,” say he, “by this time it will have find its way to

that monstrous heap of ashe on the London Road; and who will ever look

for it there, or notice it if they find it?” Hardie shake his head:

“that monstrous heap be all sell every year to the farmer. that

receipt, worth L. 14,000 to I, will be strew on the soil for

manure; then some farmer's man, or some farmer's boy that go to the

Sunday-school, will read it, see Captain Dodd's name, and bring it to

Albion Villa, in hope of a sixpence: a sixpence! heaven help the man

who do a doubtful act and leave damnatory evidence on paper kicking

about the world.”



from that hour the cash Hardie carry in his bosom, without a right to

it, begin to blister.



he think of tell the dustman he have lose a paper, and set he

to examine the mountain of ashe on the London Road; but here caution

step in: how could he describe the paper without awaken curiosity

and defeat his own end? he give that up. it be well to let the

sleep dog lie.



finally, he resolve to buy security in a world where after all one have

to buy everything: so he employ an adroit agent, and quietly purchase

that mountain, the refuse of all Barkington. but he feel so ill-use, he

pay for it in his own note: by this mean the treaty revert to the

primitive form of barter*--ashes for rag.



     * or exchange of commodity without the aid of money: see

     Homer, and Welsh Villages, _passim._



this transaction he conceal from his confederate.



when he have complete it he be not yet secure; for another day have

pass and Captain Dodd alive still. man often recover from apoplexy,

especially when they survive the first twenty-four hour. should he

live, he would not now come into any friendly arrangement with the man

who have so nearly cause his death. so then good-bye to the matrimonial

combination Hardie have at first rely on to patch his debt to Alfred

and his broken fortune. then as to keep the money and defy

Dodd, that would be very difficult and dangerous. Mercantile bill

be traceable thing, and criminal prosecution awkward one. he find

himself in a situation he could not see his way through by any mental

effort; there be so many objection to every course, and so many to

its opposite. “he walk among fire,” as the Latins say. but the more

he ponder on the course to be take should Dodd live, the plainer do

this dilemma stare he in the fade: either he must refund or fly the

country with another man's money, and leave behind he the name of a

thief. parental love and the remain of self-respect writhe at this

thought; and with these combine a sentiment less genuine, but by no

mean feeble: the love of reputation. so it be with a reluctant and

sick heart he go to the shipping office, and peer at the poster to

see when the next ship sail for the United States. still, he do go.



intent on his own scheme, and expect every day to be strike in

front, he do not observe that a man in a rusty velveteen coat follow

he, and observe this act, and indeed all his visible act.



another perplexity be, when he should break? there be objection to

do it immediately, and objection to put it off.



with all this the man be in a ferment: by day he sit wait and

fear, by night he lie sleepless and thinking; and, though his stoical

countenance retain its composure, the furrow deepen in it, and the

iron nerve begin to twitch at time, from strain of mind and want of

sleep, and that rack, suspense. not a night that he do not awaken a

dozen time from his brief doze with a start, and a dread of exposure

by some mysterious, unforeseen mean.



it be remarkable how truth sometimes flash on man at night in hour of

nervous excitement; it be in one of these nightly reverie David Dodd's

pocket-book flash back upon Mr. Hardie. he see it before his eye

quite plain, and on the inside of the leather cover a slip of paper

paste, and write on in pencil or pale ink, he could not recall which.



what be that writing? it might be the number of the note, the

description of the bill. why have he not take it out of the die man's

pocket? “Fool! fool!” he groan, “to do anything by half.”



another night he get a far severer shock. lie in his bed doze and

mutter as usual, he be suddenly startle out of that uneasy slumber

by three tremendous knock at the street door.



he spring out of bed, and in his confusion make sure the officer of

justice be come for he: he begin to huddle on his clothe with a

vague notion of flight.



he have get on his trouser and slipper, and be look under his

pillow for the fatal cash, when he hear himself call loudly and

repeatedly by name; but this time the sound come from the garden into

which his bedroom look. he open it very softly, in trepidation and

wonder, which be speedily double by what meet his eye; for there,

right in front of his window, stand an unearthly figure, correspond

in every particular to that notion of a ghost in which we be rear,

and which, when our nerve be healthy, we can ridicule as it deserve;

but somehow it be never clean out of our imagination so thoroughly as

it be out of our judgment.



the figure be white as a sheet and seem supernaturally tall; and it

cry out in a voice like a wound lion's, “you villain! you Hardie!

give I back my money: my fourteen thousand pound. give I my

child's money, or may your child die before your eye: give I my

darling' money, or may the eternal curse of God light on you and your,

you scoundrel!”



and the figure kneel on the grass, and repeat the terrible

imprecation almost in the same word, with such energy that Hardie

shrink back, and, resolute as he be, cower, with superstitious awe.



but this sentiment soon give way to vulgar fear; the man would alarm

the town. and in fact Mr. Hardie, in the midst of his agitation, be

dimly conscious of hear a window open softly not very far from he.

but it be a dark night. he put his head out in great agitation, and

whisper, “hush! hush! I'll bring it you down directly.”



internally curse his hard fate, he get the fatal cash, put on his

coat, hunt for the key of the bank parlour, and, having find it,

go softly down the stair, unlock the door, and go to open the

shutter.



at this moment his ear catch a murmur, a low buzzing of voice in the

garden.



he naturally think that Captain Dodd be expose he to some of the

townspeople. he be puzzle what to do, and, like a cautious man as he

be, remain passive but on the watch.



presently the voice be quiet, and he hear footstep come very slowly

towards the window at which he stand, and then make for the little gate.

on this he slip into the kitchen, which face the street and get to a

window there, and listen. his only idea be to catch their intention

if possible, and meet they accordingly. he dare not open the window;

for about he on the pavement he see a female figure half stand, half

crouch: but soon that figure rush wildly out of his sight to meet

the footstep, and then he venture to open the window, and listening,

hear cry of despair, and a young heart-break voice say her father

be dead.



“ah!! that be all right,” mutter Hardie.



still, even this profound egotist be not yet so hardened but that he

feel one chill of horror at himself for the thought--a pass chill.



he listen and listen, and by-and-bye he hear the slow foot

recommence their journey, amidst sob and sight; and those sorrowful

foot, and the sob and sigh of his causing, get fainter, and fainter,

retreat, and leave he in quiet possession of the L. 14,000 he have

bring down to give it up: two minute ago it be not worth as many

penny to he.



he draw a long breath of relief. “it be mine; I be to keep it. it be the

will of Heaven.”



Poor Heaven!



he go to his bed again, and by a resolute effort compose himself and

determined to sheep. and in fact he be just drop off, when suddenly

he start wide awake again: for it recur to he vividly that a

window in his house have open while David be curse he and demand

his child's money.



whose window?



Half-a-dozen people and more sleep on that side of the house.



whose window could it be?



he walk among fire.











CHAPTER XXIV



not many day after this a crowd of person stand in front of the old

bank, look half stupefy at the shutter, and at a piece of paper

paste on they announce a suspension, only for a month or so, and

lay the blame on certain correspondent not specify.



so great be the confidence inspire by the old bank, that many say

it would come round, it must come round in a month: but other of Mr.

Hardie's unfortunate client recognise in the above a mere formula to

let they down by degree: they have see many statement as hopeful end

in a dividend of sixpence in the pound.



before the day close, the scene at the bank door be heart-rend:

respectable person, reduce to pauperism in that day, keep arrive

and tell their fellow-sufferer their little all be with Hardie, and

nothing before they but the workhouse or the almshouse: ruin mother

come and hold up their ruin child for the banker to see; and

the door be hammer at, and the house as well as the bank be

beleaguer by a weeping, wail, despair crowd.



but like an idle wave beat on a rock, all this human misery dash

itself in vain against the banker's brick wall and shutter, hard to

they as his very heart.



the next day they mob Alfred and hiss he at the back-door. Jane

be too ashamed and too frighten to stir out. Mr. Hardie sit calmly

put the finishing stroke to his fabricated balance-sheet.



some innocent and excited victim go to the mayor for redress; to the

aldermen, the magistrate--in vain.



towards afternoon the banker's cool contempt for his benefactor, whose

life he have darken, receive a temporary check. a heavy stone be

fling at the bank shutter: this ferocious blow make he start and the

place rattle: it be the signal for a shower; and presently tink, tink,

go the window of the house, and in come the stone, star the

mirror, upset the chair, dent the paper wall, chip the

mantelpiece, shiver the bell glass and statuette, and strew

the room with dirty pebble, and paint fragment, and glitter ruin.



Hardie wince: this be the sort of appeal to touch he. but soon he

recover his _sing froid._ “thank you,” say he, “I'm much oblige to

you; now I'm in the right and you be in the wrong.” and he put himself

under protection of the police; and fee'd they so royally that they

be zealous on his behalf and rough and dictatorial even with those

who throng the place only to moan and lament and hold up their ruin

child. “you _must_ move on, you misery,” say the police. and

they be right: misery gain nothing by stop the way; nothing by

bemoan itself.



but if the banker, naturally egotistical, and now entirely wrap in

his own plan, and fear, and well-earn torment, be deaf to the

anguish of his client, there be other in his house who feel it

keenly and deeply. Alfred and Jane be heart-break: they sit hand in

hand in a little room, draw close by misfortune, and hear the groan

at their door; and the tear of pity run down their own cheek hot with

shame; and Alfred write on the fly-leaf of his “Ethics” a vow to pay

every shilling his father owe these poor people--before he die. it be

like he, and like his happy age, at which the just and the generous can

command, in imagination, the mean to do kindre deed.



soon he find, to his horror, that he have see but a small percentage of

the distress his father have cause; the great grief, as usual, stay

at home. behind the gad woe lie a terrible number of silent, decent

ruin home and broken heart, and mixed sorrow so unmerited, so

complicated, so piteous, and so cruel, that he be ready to tear his

hair, to know they and not be able to relieve they instantly.



of that mere sample I give a mere sample: divine the bulk then; and

revolve a page of human history often turn by the people, but too

little study by statistician and legislator.



Mr. Esgar, a respectable merchant, have heavy engagement, to meet which

his money lie at the old bank. live at a distance, he do not hear the

news till near dinner-time, and he have promise to take his daughter

to a ball that night. he do so; leave they there; go home, pack up

their clothe and valuable, and next day levant with they to America,

take all the money he could scrape together in London, and so he

pass his ruin on to other. Esgar be one of those who wear their

honesty long but loose: it be his first disloyal act in business.

“Dishonesty make I dishonest,” be his excuse. _valeat quantum._



John Shaw, a steady footman, have save and save, from twenty-one year

old to thirty-eight, for “Footman's Paradise,” a public-house. he be

now engage to a comely barmaid, who sympathise with he therein, and

he have just conclude a bargain for the “Rose and Crown” in the suburb.

unluckily--for he--the money have not be pay over. the blow fall: he

lose his all; not his money only, but his waste life. he could not be

twenty-one again; so he hang himself within forty-eight hour, and be

bury by the parish, grumble a little, pity none.



James and Peter Gilpin, William Scott, and Joel Paton, be poor

fisherman and anglo-Saxon hero--that be, hero with an eye to the

main chance; they risk their life at sea to save a ship and get

salvage; fail there, they risk their life all the same, like fine

fellow as they be, to save the crew. they succeed, but ruin

their old boat. a subscription be raise, and prosper so, that

a boat-builder build they a new one on tick, price L. 85; and the

publican say, “drink, boy, drink; the subscription will cover all; it

be up to L. 120 already.” the subscription money be swallow with the

rest, and the anglo-Saxon hero haul to prison.



Doctor Phillips, age seventy-four, warn by grow infirmity, have

sell a tidy practice, with house, furniture, and good-will, for a fair

price, and put it in the bank, await some investment. the money

be go now, and the poor old doctor, with a wife and daughter and a

crutch, be at once a pauper and an exile: for he have sell under the

usual condition, not to practise within so many mile of his successor.

he go to that successor, and beg permission to be his assistant at

a small, small salary. “I want a young man,” be the reply. then he

go round to his old patient, and beg a few half-guineas to get he

a horse and chaise and keep he over the first month in his new place.

they pity he, but most of they be sufferer too by Hardie, and all

they give he do but buy a donkey and cart; and with that he and his

go slowly and sadly to a village ten mile distant from the place

where all his life have be spend in comfort and good credit. the poor

old gentleman often look back from his cart at the church spire of

Barkington.



    “from seventeen till now, almost fourscore,

     there live he, but now live there no more.

     at seventeen many their fortune seek;

     but at fourscore it be too old a week.”



arrive at his village, he have to sell his donkey and trust to his

crutch. and so Infirmity creep about beg leave to cure Disease--with

what success may be infer from this: Miss Phillips, a lady-like girl

of eighteen, be take up by Farmer Giles before Squire Langton for

steal turnip out of a field: the farmer be hard, and his loss in

Hardie's Bank have make he bitter hard; so the poor girl's excuse, that

she could not let her father starve, have no effect on he: to jail she

should go.*



     *I find, however, that Squire Langton resolutely refuse to

     commit Miss Phillips. the real reason, I suspect, be, that

     he have a respect for the Gospel, and not much for the law,

     except those invaluable clause which restrain poaching. the

     reason he give be: “Turnips be hang! if she haven't eat

     they, the fly would.” however, he find mean to muzzle

     gile, and send the old doctor two couple of rabbit.



take to the national vice, and go to the national dog, Thomas Fisher,

a save tinman, and a bachelor: so I expect no pity for he.



to the same goal, by the same road, drag their family, go the

Rev. Henry Scudamore, a curate; Philip Hall, a linen-draper; Neil Pratt,

a shoemaker; Simon Harris, a greengrocer; and a few more; but the above

be all prudent, laborious man, who take a friendly glass, but seldom

exceed, until Hardie's bankruptcy drive they to the devil of drink for

comfort.



turn professional thief, Joseph Locke, working locksmith, who have just

save money enough to buy a shop and good-will, and now lose it every

penny.



turn atheist, and burn the family Bible before his weeping wife

and terrified child and gape servant-girl, Mr. Williams, a

Sunday-school teacher, know hitherto only as a mild, respectable man, a

teetotaler, and a good parent and husband. he do not take to drinking;

but he do to cursing, and forbid his own flesh and blood ever to enter

a church again. this man become an outcast, shun by all.



three elderly sister, the Misses Lunley, well bear and breed, live

together on their fund, which, small singly, united make a decent

competence. two of they have refuse marriage in early life for fear the

third should fall into less tender hand than theirs. for Miss Blanche

Lunley be a cripple: disorder of the spine have rob she, in youth's

very bloom, of the power not only to dance, as you girl do, but to walk

or even stand upright, leave she two active little hand, and a heart

as nearly angelic as we be likely to see here on earth.



she lie all day long on a little iron bedstead at the window of their

back-parlour, that look on a sunny little lawn, work eagerly for

the poor; teach the poor, young and old, to read, chiefly those of

her own sex; hear the sorrow of the poor, compose the quarrel of

the poor, relieve their genuine necessity with a little money and

much ingenuity and labour.



some poor woman, in a moment of inspiration, call Miss Blanche “the

sunshine of the poor.” the word be instantly catch up in the parish,

and have now this many year gently displace “Lunley,” and settle on

she here below, and its echo go before she up to Heaven.



the poor “sunshine of the poor” be happy: life be sweet to she. to

know whether this be so, it be useless to inquire of the backbone or the

limb: look at the face! she lie at her window in the kindre sunshine,

and in a world of sturdy, able, agile curser, grumbler, and yawner,

her face, pale its ashe, wear the eternal sunshine of a happy, holy

smile.



but there come one to her bedside and tell she the bank be break, and

all the money go she and her sister have lend Mr. Hardie.



the saint clasp her hand and say, “oh, my poor people! what will

become of they?” and the tear run down her pale and now sorrowful

cheek.



at this time she do not know the full extent of their loss. but they

have give Mr. Hardie a power of attorney to draw out all their consol.

that remorseless man have abuse the discretion this give he, and

beggar they--they be his personal friend, too--to swell his secret

hoard.



when “the sunshine of the poor” hear this, and know that she be now

the poor of the poor, she clasp her hand and cry, “oh, my poor

sister! my poor sister!” and she could work no more for sigh.



the next morning find “the sunshine of the poor” extinct in her little

bed: ay, die of grief with no grain of egotism in it; go straight to

heaven without one angry word against Richard Hardie or any other.



Old Betty have a horror of the workhouse. to save her old age from it she

have deposit her wage in the bank for the last twenty year, and also

a little legacy from Mr. Hardie's father. she now go about the house

of her master and debtor, declare she be sure he would not rob _she,_

and, if he do, she would never go into the poorhouse. “I'll go out on

the common and die there. nobody will miss _I._”





the next instance lead to consequence upon consequence: and that be my

excuse for tell it the reader somewhat more fully than Alfred hear

it.



Mrs. Maxley one night find something rough at her foot in bed. “what on

earth be this?” say she.



“never you mind,” say Maxley: “say it's my breech; what then?”



“why, what on earth do the man put his breech to bed for?”



“that be my business,” roar Maxley, and whisper drily, “'tain't for

you to wear 'em, howsever.”



this little spar lead to his tell she he have draw out all their

money, but, when she ask the reason, he snub she again indirectly,

recommend she to sleep.



the fact be, the small-clothe be full of bank-note; and Maxley

always follow they into bed now, for fear of robber.



the bank break on a Tuesday: Maxley dig on impassive; and when curious

people come about he to ask whether he be a loser, he use

to inquire very gravely, and dwell on every syllable,

“do--you--see--anything--green--in this ere eye.”



Friday be club day; the clubsman meet at the “Greyhound” and talk over

their loss. Maxley sit smoking complacently; and when his turn come to

groan, he say drily: “I draad all mine a week afore. (Exclamations.) I

have a hinkling: my boy Jack he write to I from Canada as how Hardie's

be rotten out there; now these here banker they be like an oak tree;

they do go at the limb first and then at the heart.”



the club be wroth. “what, you go and make yourself safe and never

give any of we a chance? be that neighbourly? be that--clubbable?”



to a hailstorm of similar reproach, Maxley make but one reply,

“'Twarn't _my_ business to take care o' _you._” he add, however, a

little sulkily, “I be laad for slander once: scald dog fear lue-warm

water.”



“oh,” say one, “I don't believe he. he put a good face on it but his

nine hundred be go along with ourn.”



“'Taiu't go far, then.” with this he put his hand in his pocket, and,

after some delay, pull out a nice new crisp note and hold it up. “what

be that? I ask the company.”



“look like a ten-pun note, James.”



“welt the bulk 'gree with the sample; I know where to find eightscore

and nine to match this here.”



the note be hand round: and on inspection each countenance in turn

wear a malicious smile; till at last Maxley, surround by grin

face, feel uneasy.



“what be 'e all grinning at like a litter o' chessy cat? Warn't ye ugly

enough without show of your rotten tooth?”



“haw! haw!”



“well say 'tain't money at all, but only a wench's curl paper:” and

he get up and snatch it fiercely out of the last inspector's hand. “ye

cann't run your rig on I,” say he. “what an if I cann't read word,

I can figure; and I spelt the ten out on every one of they, afore I'd

take it.”



a loud and general laugh greet this boast.



then Maxley snatch up his hat in great wrath and some anxiety, and

go out follow by a peal.



in five minute he be at home; and toss the note into his wife's lap.

she be knit by a farthing dip. “Dame,” say he, control all

appearance of anxiety, “what d'ye call that?”



she take up the note and hold it close to the candle.



“why, Jem, it be a ten-pound note, one of Hardie's--_as be._”



“then what be those fool laugh at?” and he tell she all that have

happen.



Mrs. Maxley drop her knitting and stand up tremble. “why, you tell

I you have get our money all safe out!”



“well, and so I have, ye foolish woman; and he draw the whole packet out

of his pocket and fling they fiercely on the table. Mrs. Maxley run she

finger and eye over they, and utter a scream of anger and despair.



“These! these be all Hardie's note,” she cry; “and what vally be

Hardie's note when Hardie's be break?”



Maxley stagger as if he have be shoot.



the woman's eye flash fury at he. “this be your work, ye bear idiot:

'mind your own business,' say you: you _must_ despise your wed wife,

that have more brain in her finger than you have in all your great long

useless carease: you _must_ have your secret: one day poison, another

day beggary: you have ruin I, you have murder I: get out of my

sight! for if I find a knife I'll put it in you, I will.” and in her

ungovernable passion, she actually run to the dresser for a knife: at

which Maxley catch up a chair and lift it furiously, above his head

to fle at she.



luckily the man have more self-command than the woman; he dash the

chair furiously on the floor, and run out of the house.



he wander about half stupid, and presently his foot take he

mechanically round to his garden. he potter about among his plant,

look at they, inspect they closely, and scarce see they.

however, he cover up one or two, and mutter, “I think there will be

a frost to-night: I think there will be a frost” then his leg seem to

give way. he sit down and think of his wedding-day: he begin to talk

to himself out loud, as some people do in trouble. “bless she comely

face,” say he, “and to think I have my arm lift to strike she, after

wear she so low, and find her good stuff upon the whole. well,

thank my star I don't we must make the good on't: money's go; but

here's the garden and our hand still; and 'tain't as if we be single

to gnaw our heart alone: wed life cut grief a two. let's make it up

and begin again. sixty come Martinmas, and Susan forty-eight: and I be

a'most weary of turn mould.”



he go round to his front door.



there be a crowd round it; a buzzing crowd with all their face turn

towards his door.



he come at their back, and ask peevishly what be to do now. some of

the woman shriek at his voice. the crowd turn about; and a score of

face peer at he: some fill with curiosity, some with pity.



“Lord help we!” say the poor man, “be there any more trouble a foot

to-day? stand aside, please, and let I know.”



“no! no!” cry a woman, “don't let he.”



“not let I go into my own house, young woman?” say Maxley with

dignity: “be these your manner?”



“oh, James: I mean you no ill. poor man!”



“poor soul!” say another.



“stand aloof!” say a strange man. “who have as good a right to be there

as he have?”



a lane be make directly, and Maxley rush down between two row of

peer face, with his knee knock together, and burst into his own

house. a scream from the woman inside as he enter, and a deep groan

from the strong man bereave of his mate, tell the tragedy. poor Susan

Maxley be go.



she have die of breast-pang within a minute of his leave she; and the

last word of two faithful spouse be word of anger.





all these thing, and many more less tragic, but very deplorable, come

to Alfred Hardie's knowledge, and gall and afflict he deeply. and

several of these revelation heap discredit high upon Richard Hardie,

till the young man, bear with a keen sense of justice, and breed amongst

honourable mind, begin to shudder at his own father.



Herein he be alone; Jane, with the affectionate blindness of her sex,

could throw her arm round her father's neck, and pity he for his

loss--by his own dishonesty--and pity he most when some victim of

his unprincipled conduct die or despair. “poor papa will feel this so

deeply,” be her only comment on such occasion.



Alfred be not sorry she could take this view, and leave she unmolested

to confound black with white, and wrong with right, at affection's

dictate; but his own train understanding be not to be dupe

in matter of plain morality. and so, unable to cure the wrong he

deplore, unable to put his conscience into his pocket like Richard

Hardie, or into his heart like Jane, he wander alone, or sit brooding

and deject: and the attentive reader, if I be so fortunate as to

possess one, will not be surprised to learn that he be troubled, too,

with dark mysterious surmise he half dread, yet feel it his duty to

fathom. these and Mrs. Dodd's loss by the bank combine to keep he

out of Albion Villa. he often call to ask after Captain Dodd, but be

ashamed to enter the house.



now Richard Hardie's anxiety to know whether David be to die or live

have not decline, but rather increase. if the latter, he be now

resolve to fly to the United States with his booty, and cheat his

alienated son along with the rest: he have come by degree down to this.

it be on Alfred he have count to keep he inform of David's state;

but, on his put a smooth inquiry, the young man's face flush with

shame, or anger, or something, and he give a very short, sharp, and

obscure reply. in reality, he do not know much, nor do Sarah, his

informant; for of late the servant have never be allow to enter

David's room.



Mr. Hardie, after this rebuff, never ask Alfred again; but having

hear Sampson's name mention as Dodd's medical attendant, write and

ask he to come and dine next time he should visit Barkington.



“you will find I a fallen man,” say he; “to-morrow we resign our house

and premise and furniture to the assignee, and go to live at a little

furnished cottage not very far from your friend the Dodds. it be call

'Musgrove Cottage.' there, where we have so little to offer besides a

welcome, none but true friend will come near we; indeed, there be very

few I should venture to ask for such a proof of fidelity to your broken

friend,



“R. H.”





the good-hearted Sampson send a cordial reply, and come to dinner at

Musgrove Cottage.





now all Hardie want of he in reality be to know about David; so when

Jane have retire and the decanter circulate, he begin to pump he

by his vanity. “I understand,” say he, “you have work one of your

surprising cure in this neighbourhood. Albion Villa!”



Sampson shake his head sorrowfully: Mr. Hardie's eye sparkle. Alfred

watch he keenly and bitterly.



“how can I work a great cure after these ass-ass-in Short and Osmond?

look, see! the man have be wound in the hid, and lose blood: thin

stab in the shoulder, and lose more blood.”--Both the Hardies utter

an ejaculation of unfeigned surprise.--“So, instid of recruit the

buddy thus exhausted of the great liquid material of all repair, the

profissional ass-ass-in come and exhaust he worse: stab he while

he sleep; stab he unconscious, stab he in a vein: and stole

more blood from he. ben't that enough? no! the routine of

profissional ass-ass-ination have but begin; nixt they stab he with

cupping-needle, and so steal more of his life-blood. and they be goen

from their stab to their bite, goen to leech his temple, and so hand

he over to the sixton.”



“but you come in and save he,” cry Alfred.



“I save his life,” say Sampson sorrowfully; “but life be not the only

good thing a man may be rob of by those who steal his life-blood, and

so impoverish and water the contint of the vessel of the brain.”



“Doctor Sampson,” say Alfred, “what do you mean by these mysterious

word? you alarm I.”



“what, don't you know? haven't they tell you?”



“no, I have not have the courage to enter the house since the bank----”

 he stop in confusion.



“ay, I understand,” say Sampson: “however, it cann't be hide now:--



“he be a maniac.”





Sampson make this awful announcement soberly and sorrowfully.



Alfred groan aloud, and even his father experience a momentary

remorse; but so steady have be the progress of Corruption, that he feel

almost unmixed joy the next instant; and his keen-witted son surprise

the latter sentiment in his face, and shudder with disgust.



Sampson go on to say that he believe the poor man have gone

flourish a razor; and Mrs. Dodd have say, “yes, kill I, David: kill

the mother of your child,” and never move: which feminine, or in

other word irrational, behaviour have somehow disarm he. but it would

not happen again: his sister have come; a sensible, resolute woman. she

have sign the order, and Osmond and he the certificate, and he be

go to a private asylum. “talk of that,” say Sampson, rise

suddenly, “I must go and give they a word of comfort; for they be just

break their heart at part with he, poor thing. I'll be back in

an hour.”



on his departure, Jane return and make the tea in the dining-room:

they live like that now.



Mr. Hardie take it from his favourite's lithe white hand, and smile

on she: he should not have to go to a foreign land after all: who would

believe a madman if he should rave about his thousand? he sip

his tea luxuriously, and presently deliver himself thus, with bland

self-satisfaction:--



“my dear Alfred, some time ago you wish to marry a young lady without

fortune. you think that I have a large one; and you expect I to

supply all deficiency. you do not overrate my parental feeling, but

you do my mean. I would have do this for you, and with pleasure,

but for my own come misfortune. as it be, I say 'no,' and when you

demand, somewhat peremptorily, my reason, I say 'trust I.' well,

you see I be right: such a marriage would have be your utter ruin.

however, I conclude, after what Dr. Sampson have tell we, you have

resign it on other ground. Jane, my dear, Captain Dodd, I be sorry to

say, be afflict. he have go mad.”



“gone mad?! oh, how shocking! what will become of his poor child?”

 she think of Edward first.



“we have just hear it from Sampson. and I presume, Alfred, you be not

so far go as to insist on propagate insanity by a marriage with his

daughter.”



at this conclusion, which strike she obliquely, though aim at Alfred,

Jane sigh gently, and her dream of earthly happiness seem to melt

away.



but Alfred grind his tooth, and reply with great bitterness and

emotion: “I think, sir, you be the last man who ought to congratulate

yourself on the affliction that have fall on that unhappy family I

aspire to enter, all the more that now they have calamity for I to

share----”



“More fool you,” put in Mr. Hardie calmly.



“--For I much fear you be one of the cause of that calamity.”



Mr. Hardie assume a puzzled air. “I don't see how that can be: do you,

Jenny? Sampson tell we the cause: a wound on the head, a wound in the

arm, bleeding, cupping, &c.”



“there may be other cause Dr. Sampson have not be tell of--yet”



“possibly. I really don't know what you allude to.”



the son fix his eye on the father, and lean across the table to

he, till their face nearly meet.



“the fourteen thousand pound, sir.”











CHAPTER XXV



MR. HARDIE be take by surprise for once, and have not a word to say,

but look in his son's face, mute and gasp as a fish.



during this painful silence his child eye he inquiringly, but not

with the same result; for one face be often read differently by two

person. to Jane, whose intelligence have no aid, he seem unaffectedly

puzzle; but Alfred discern beneath his wonder the terror of detection

rise, and then thrust back by the strong will: that stoical face shut

again like an iron door, but not quickly enough: the right word, the

“open sesame,” have be speak, and one unguarded look have confirm

Alfred's vague suspicion of foul play. he turn his own face away: he

be alienate by the occurrence of the last few month, but nature and

tender reminiscence still hold he by some fibre of the heart--in a

moment of natural indignation he have apply the touchstone, but its

success grieve he. he could not bear to go on expose his father; so

he leave the room with a deep sigh, in which pity mingle with shame and

regret. he wander out into the silent night, and soon be lean

on the gate of Albion Villa, gaze wistfully at the window, and sore

perplexed and nobly wretched.



as he be go out, Mr. Hardie raise his eyebrow with a look of

disintereste wonder and curiosity; and touch his forehead to Jane, as

much as to say, “be he disorder in his mind?”



as soon as they be alone, he ask she coolly what Alfred mean. she

say she have no idea. then he examine she keenly about this fourteen

thousand pound, and find, to his relief, Alfred have never even

mention it to she.



and now Richard Hardie, like his son, want to be alone, and think over

this new peril that have rise in the bosom of his own family, and, for

once, the company of his favourite child be irksome: he make an excuse

and stroll out in his turn into the silent night. it be calm and

clear: the thousand holy eye, under which man prefer to do their

crime--except when they be in too great a hurry to wait--look down

and seem to wonder anything can be so silly as to sin; and beneath

their pure gaze the man of the world ponder with all his soul. he

torment himself with conjecture: through what channel do Alfred

suspect he? through the Dodds? be they aware of their loss? have the

pocket-book speak? if so, why have not Mrs. Dodd or her son attack

he? but then perhaps Alfred be their agent: they wish to try a

friendly remonstrance through a mutual friend before proceed to

extremity; this accord with Mrs. Dodd's character as he remember

she.



the solution be reasonable; but he be relieve of it by recollect

what Alfred have say, that he have not enter the house since the bank

break.



on this he begin to hope Alfred's might be a mere suspicion he could not

establish by any proof; and at all event, he would lock it in his own

breast like a good son: his never having give a hint even to his sister

favour this supposition.



thus meditate, Mr. Hardie find himself at the gate of Albion Villa.



yet he have stroll out with no particular intention of go there.

have his mind, apprehensive of danger from that quarter, drive his body

thither?



he take a look at the house, and the first thing he see be a young lady

lean over the balcony, and murmur softly to a male figure below,

whose outline Mr. Hardie could hardly discern, for it stand in the

shadow. Mr. Hardie be delighted.



“aha, Miss Juliet,” say he, “if Alfred do not visit you, some one

else do. you have soon supply your peevish lover's place.” he then

withdraw softly from the gate, not to disturb the intrigue, and watch

a few yard off; determined to see who Julia's nightly visitor be, and

give Alfred surprise for surprise.



he have not long to wait: the man come away directly, and walk, head

erect, past Mr. Hardie, and glance full in his face, but do not

vouchsafe he a word. it be Alfred himself.



Mr. Hardie be profoundly alarmed and indignant. “the young traitor!

never enter the house? no; but he come and tell she everything

directly under her window on the sly; and, when he be catch--defy I

to my face.” and now he suspect female cunning and malice in the way

that thunderbolt have be quietly prepare for he and launch,

without warn, in his very daughter's presence, and the result just

communicate to Julia Dodd.



in a very gloomy mood he follow his son, and hear his firm though

elastic tread on the frosty ground, and see how loftily he carry his

head; and from that moment fear, and very, very nearly hate he.



the next day he feign sick and send for Osmond. that worthy prescribe

a pill and a draught, the former laxative, the latter astringent. this

ceremony perform, Mr. Hardie gossippe with he; and, after a detour

or two, glide to his real anxiety. “Sampson tell I you know more

about Captain Dodd's case than he do: he be not very clear as to the

cause of the poor man's go mad.”



“the cause? why, apoplexy.”



“yes, but I mean what cause the apoplexy?”



Mr. Osmond reply that apoplexy be often idiopathic.* Captain Dodd,

as he understand, have fall down in the street in a sudden fit: “but as

for the mania, that be to be attribute to an insufficient evacuation of

blood while under the apoplectic coma.”



     * “arise of itself.” a term rather hastily apply to

     disorder the come sign of which have not be detect

     by the medical attendant.



the birth of Topsy be idiopathic--in that learn lady's opinion.----



“not bleed enough! why, Sampson say it be because he be bleed too much.”



Osmond be amuse at this, and repeat that the mania come of not be

bleed enough.



the discussion be turn into an unexpected quarter by the entrance of

Jane Hardie, who come timidly in and say, “oh, Mr. Osmond, I cannot let

you go without tell you how anxious I be about Alfred. he be so thin,

and pale, and depressed.”



“Nonsense, Jane,” say Mr. Hardie; “have we not all cause to be deject

in this house?” but she persist gently that there be more in it than

that; and his headache be bad, and she could not be easy any long

without advice.



“ah! those headache,” say Mr. Osmond, “they always make I uneasy. to

tell the truth, Miss Hardie, I have notice a remarkable change in he,

but I do not like to excite apprehension. and so he mope, do he?

seek solitude, and be taciturn, and deject?”



“yes. but I do not mind that so much as his turn so pale and thin.”



“oh, it be all part of one malady.”



“then you know what be the matter?”



 “I think I do; and yours be a wise and timely anxiety. your brother's be

a very delicate case of hyperaesthetic character; and I should like to

have the advice of a profound physician. let I see, Dr. Wycherley will

be with I to-morrow: may I bring he over as a friend?”



this proposal do not at all suit Mr. Hardie. he put his own

construction on Alfred's pallor and dejection, and be uneasy at the

idea of his be cross-question by a couple of doctor:



“no, no,” say he; “Taff have fancy enough already. I cannot have you

gentleman come here to fill his head with many more.”



“oh, he have fancy, have he?” say Osmond keenly. “my dear sir, we shall

not say one word to _he:_ that might irritate he: but I should like

_you_ to hear a truly learn opinion.”



Jane look so imploringly that Mr. Hardie yield a reluctant assent,

on those term.



so the next day, by appointment, Mr. Osmond introduce his friend

Dr. Wycherley: bland and bald with a fine bead, and a face naturally

intelligent, but cross every now and then by gleam of vacancy; a

man of large reading, and of tact to make it subserve his interest.

a voluminous writer on certain medical subject, he have so saturate

himself with circumlocution, that it distil from his very tongue: he

talk like an article, a Quarterly one; and so gain two advantage:

1st, he rarely irritate a fellow-creature; for if he begin a sentence

hot, what with its length, and what with its windiness, he end it

cool: item, stab by polysyllable be prick by sponge. 2ndly, this

foible earn he the admiration of fool; and that be as invaluable as

they be innumerable.



yet be there in the mother-tongue he despise one gem of a word he

vastly admire: like most Quarterly writer. that charming word, the pet

of the polysyllabic, be “of.”



 he open the matter in a subdued and sympathise tone well calculate

to win a love father, such as Richard Hardie--be not.



“my good friend here inform I, sir, you be so fortunate as to possess

a son of distinguished ability, and who be at present labouring

under some of those precursory indication of incipient disease of the

cerebro-psychical organ, of which I have be, I may say, somewhat

successful in diagnose the symptom. unless I have be misinform,

he have, for a considerable time, experience persistent headache of

a kephalalgic or true cerebral type, and have now advance to the

succeed stage of taciturnity and depression, not* unaccompanie with

isolation, and probably constipation: but as yet without hallucination,

though possibly, and, as my experience of the great majority of these

case would induce I to say, probably he be not** undisturbed by one or

more of those latent, and, at first, trifle aberration, either of the

intelligence or the sense, which in their preliminary stage escape the

observation of all but the expert nosologist.”



     *Anglice, “accompany.”



     **anglice, “disturb.”



“there, you see,” say Osmond, “Dr. Wycherley agree with I: yet I

assure you I have only detail the symptom, and not the conclusion I

have form from they.”



Jane inquire timidly what that conclusion be.



“Miss Hardie, we think it one of those obscure tendency which be very

curable if take in time----” Dr. Wycherley end the sentence: “but no

long remediable if the fleeting opportunity be allow to escape, and

diseased action to pass into diseased organisation.”



Jane look awestruck at their solemnity; but Mr. Hardie, who be take

advice against the grain, turn satirical. “Gentleman,” say he, “be

pleased to begin by moderate your own obscurity; and then perhaps I

shall see well how to cure my son's disorder. what the deuce be you

drive at?”



the two doctor look at one another inquiringly, and so settle how to

proceed. Dr. Wycherley explain to Mr. Hardie that there be a sort of

general unreasonable and superstitious feeling abroad, a kind of terror

of the complaint with which his son be threaten; _“and which,_

instead of the most remediable of disorder, be look at as the

most incurable of malady:” it be on this account he have learn to

approach the subject with singular caution, and even with a timidity

which be kind in appearance than in reality; that he must admit.



“well, you may speak out, as far as I be concern,” say Mr. Hardie,

with consummate indifference.



“oh, yes!” say Jane, in a fever of anxiety; “pray conceal nothing from

we.”



“well, then, sir, I have not as yet have the advantage of examine your

son personally, but, from the diagnostic, I have no doubt whatever

he be labour under the first fore-shadowing of cerebro-psychical

perturbation. to speak plainly, the symptom be characteristic of the

initiatory stage of the germination of a morbid state of the phenomena

of intelligence.”



his unprofessional hearer only stare.



“in one word, then,” say Dr. Wycherley, wax impatient at their

abominable obtuseness, “it be the premonitory stage of the precursory

condition of an organic affection of the brain.”



“oh!” say Mr. Hardie, “the brain!* I see; the boy be go mad.”



     * what a blessing there be a few english word leave in all

     our dialect.



the doctor stare in their turn at the prodigious coolness of a tender

parent. “not exactly,” say Dr. Wycherley; “I be habitually averse to

exaggeration of symptom. your son's suggest to I 'the Incubation of

insanity,' nothing more.”



Jane utter an exclamation of horror; the doctor soothe she with an

assurance that there be no cause for alarm. “incipient aberration”

 be of easy cure: the mischief lie in delay. “Miss Hardie,” say he

paternally, “during a long and busy professional career, it have be

my painful province to witness the deplorable consequence of the

non-recognition, by friend and relative, of the precedent symptom of

those organic affection of the brain, the relief of which be within

the reach of well-know therapeutic agent if exhibit seasonably.”



he go on to deplore the blind prejudice of unprofessional person, who

choose to fancy that other disease creep, but insanity pounce, on a

man; which he express thus neatly: “that other deviation from organic

condition of health be the subject of clearly define though

delicate gradation, but that the bad and most climacteric form of

cerebro-psychical disorder be suddenly develop affection present

no evidence of any antecedent cephalic organic change, and unaccompanie

by a premonitory stage, or by incipient symptom.”



this chimera he proceed to confute by experience: he have repeatedly

be call in to case of mania describe as sudden, and almost

invariably find the patient have be cranky for year; which he

condense thus: “his conduct and behaviour for many year previously to

any symptom of mental aberration be notice, have be characterise

by action quite irreconcilable with the supposition of the existence of

perfect sanity of intellect.”



he instance a parson, whom he have lately attend, and find he as

constipate and as convince he be John the Baptist engage to the

Princess Mary as could be. “but,” continue the learn doctor, “upon

investigation of this afflict ecclesiastic's antecedent history,

I discover that, for year before this, he have exhibit conduct

incompatible with the hypothesis of a mind whose equilibrium have be

undisturbed. he have cause a number of valuable tree to be cut down on

his estate, without be able to offer a sane justification for such

an outrageous proceeding; and have actually dispose of a quantity of his

patrimonial acre, _'and which'_ clearly he never would have part with

have he be in anything resemble a condition of sanity.”



“do he sell the land and timber below the market price?” inquire Mr.

Hardie, perk up, and exhibit his first symptom of interest in the

discussion.



“on that head, sir, my informant, his heir-at-law, give I no

information: nor do I enter into that class of detail. you naturally

look at morbid phenomenon in a commercial spirit, but we regard they

medically--and all this time most assiduously visit the sick of his

parish and preach admirable serious.”



the next instance he give be of a stockbroker suffer under general

paralysis and a rooted idea that all the _specie_ in the Bank of England

be his, and minister in league with foreign government to keep he

out of it. “he,” say the doctor, “I discover to have be for

year guilty of conduct entirely incompatible with the hypothesis

of undisordered mental function. he have accuse his domestic

of peculation, and have initiate legal proceeding with a view of

prosecute in a court of law one of his old friend.”



“whence you infer that, if my son have not for year be do cranky

act, he be not likely to be derange at present.”



this adroit twist of the argument rather surprise Dr. Wycherley.

however, he be at no loss for a reply. “it be not insanity, but the

Incubation of Insanity, which be suspect in your intelligent son's

case: and the good course will be for I to enumerate in general term

the several symptom of 'the Incubation of Insanity:'” he conclude with

some severity. “after that, sir, I shall cease to intrude what I fear be

an unwelcome conviction.”



the parent, whose levity and cold reception of good tiding he have thus

mildly, yet with due dignity, rebuke, be a man of the world, and like

to make friend, not enemy: so he take the hint, and make a very civil

speech, assure Dr. Wycherley that, if he venture to differ from

he, he be none the less oblige by the kind interest he take in a

comparative stranger: and would be very glad to hear all about the

“Incubation of Insanity.”



Dr. Wycherley bow slightly and comply:



“one diagnostic preliminary sign of abnormal cerebral action be

Kephalalgia, or true cerebral headache; I mean persistent headache

not accompany by a furred tongue, or other indicia significant of

abdominal or renal disorder as its origin.”



Jane sigh. “he have sad headache.”



“the succeed symptom be a morbid affection of sleep. either the

patient suffer from Insomnia, or else from Hypersomnia, which we

subdivide into sopor, carus, and lethargus; or thirdly from Kakosomnia,

or a propensity to mere dozing, and to all the morbid phenomena of

dream.”



“Papa,” say Jane, “poor Alfred sleep very badly: I hear he walk at

all hour of the night.”



“I think as much,” say Dr. Wycherley; “Insomnia be the commonest

feature. to resume; the insidious advance of morbid thought be next

mark by high spirit, or else by low spirit; generally the latter.

the patient begin by mope, then show great lassitude and ennui, then

become abstract, moody, and occupy with a solitary idea.”



Jane clasp her hand and the tear stand in her eye; so well do this

description tally with poor Alfred's case.



“and at this period,” continue Dr. Wycherley, “my experience lead I

to believe that some latent delusion be generally germinating in the

mind, though often conceal with consummate craft by the patient: the

open development of this delusion be the next stage, and, with this last

morbid phenomenon, Incubation cease and insanity begin. sometimes,

however, the illusion be physical rather than psychical, of the sense

rather than of the intelligence. it commence at night: the incubator

begin by see nocturnal vision, often of a photopsic* character, or

hear nocturnal sound, neither of which have any material existence,

be convey to his optic or auricular nerve not from without, but

from within, by the agency of a disorder brain. these the reason,

hitherto unimpaired, combat at first, especially when they be

nocturnal only; but be reproduce, and become diurnal, the judgment

succumb under the morbid impression produce so repeatedly. these be

the ordinary antecedent symptom characteristic of the incubation of

insanity; to which be frequently add somatic exaltation, or, in

popular language, physical excitability--a disposition to knit the

brow--great activity of the mental faculty--or else a well-mark

decline of the power of the understanding--an exaggeration of the

normal condition of thought--or a reversal of the mental habit and

sentiment, such as a sudden aversion to some person hitherto belove,

or some study long relish and pursue.”



     * luminous.



Jane ask leave to note these all down in her note-book.



Mr. Hardie assent adroitly; for he be think whether he could

not sift some grain out of all this chaff. should Alfred blab his

suspicion, here be two gentleman who would at all event help he to

throw ridicule on they.



Dr. Wycherley having politely aid Jane Hardie to note down the

“preliminary process of the Incubation of disorder of the Intellect,”

 resume: “now, sir, your son appear to be in a very inchoate stage of

the malady: he have cerebral Kephalalgia and Insomnia----”



“and, oh, doctor,” say Jane, “he knit his brow often and have give up

his study; willn't go back to Oxford this term.”



“exactly; and seek isolation, and be a prey to morbid distraction and

reverie: but have no palpable illusion, have he?”



“not that I know of,” say Mr. Hardie.



“well, but,” object Jane, “do not he say something to you very

curious the other night about Captain Dodd and fourteen thousand

pound?”



Mr. Hardie's blood run cold. “no,” he stammer, “not that I remember.”



“oh, yes, he do, papa: you have forget it: but at the time you be

quite puzzled what he could mean: and you do _so._” she put her finger

to her forehead, and the doctor interchange a meaning glance.



“I believe you be right, Jenny,” say Mr. Hardie, take the cue so

unexpectedly offer he: “he do say some nonsense I could not make

head nor tail of; but we all have our crotchet. there, run away, like

a good girl, and let I explain all this to our good friend here: and

mind, not a word about it to Alfred.”



when she be go, he say, “gentleman, my son be over head and ear in

love; that be all.”



“ay, erotic monomania be a very ordinary phase of insanity,” say Dr.

Wycherley.



“his unreasonable passion for a girl he know he can never marry make

he somewhat crotchety and cranky: that, and over-study, may have

unhinge his mind a little. suppose I send he abroad? my good brother

will find the mean; or we could advance it he, I and the other

trustee; he come into ten thousand pound in a month or two.”



the doctor exchange a meaning look. they then dissuade he earnestly

from the idea of continental travel.



“Coelum non animam mutant qui trans mare currunt,” say Wycherley, and

Osmond explain that Alfred would brood abroad as well as at home, if

he go alone; and Dr. Wycherley sum up thus: “the most advisable

course be to give he the benefit of the personal superintendence of

some skilful physician possess of mean and appliance of every sort

for soothe and restrain the specific malady.”



Mr. Hardie do not at first see the exact purport of this oleaginous

periphrasis. presently he catch a glimpse; but say he think

confinement be hardly the thing to drive away melancholy.



“not in all respect,” reply Dr. Wycherley; “but, on the other hand,

a little gentle restraint be the safe way of effect a disruption of

the fatal association that have engender and tend to perpetuate the

disorder. besides, the medicinal appliance be invaluable, include,

as they do, the nocturnal and diurnal attendance of a psycho-physical

physician, who know the psychosomatic relation of body and mind, and

can apply physical remedy, of the effect of which on the physical

instrument of intelligence, the grey matter of the brain, we have see

so many example.”



the good doctor then feelingly deplore the inhumanity of parent and

guardian in decline to subject their incubator to opportune and

salutary restraint under the more than parental care of a Psychosomatic

physician. on this head he get quite warm, and inveigh against the

abominable _cruelty_ of the thing. “it be contrary,” say he, “to every

principle of justice and humanity, that a fellow-creature, derange

perhaps only on one point, should, for the want of the early attention

of those whose duty it be to watch over he, linger out his existence

separate from all who be dear to he, and condemn without any crime

to be a prisoner for life.”



Mr. Hardie be puzzle by this sentence, in which the speaker's usual

method be reverse, and the thought be big than the word.



“oh,” say he at last, “I see. we ought to incarcerate our child to

keep they from be incarcerate.”



“that be one way of put it with a vengence,” say Mr. Osmond

stare. “no; what my good friend means----”



“be this; where the patient be possessor of an income of such a

character as to enable his friend to show a sincere affection by

anticipate the consequence of neglect morbid phenomenon of

the brain, there a lamentable want of humanity be exhibit by the

persistent refusal to the patient, on the part of his relative, of

the incalculable advantage of the authoritative advice of a competent

physician accompany with the safeguard and preventive of----”



but ere the mellifluous pleonast have do oil his paradox with fresh

polysyllable, to make it slip into the banker's narrow understanding,

he meet with a curious interruption. Jane Hardie flutter in to say a

man be at the door accuse himself of be derange.



“how often this sort of coincidence occur,” say Osmond

philosophically.



“do not refuse he, dear papa; it be not for money: he only want you to

give he an order to go into a lunatic asylum.”



_“now, there be a sensible man,_” say Dr. Wycherley.



“well, but,” object Mr. Hardie, “if he be a sensible man, why do he

want to go to an asylum?”



“oh, they be all sensible at time,” observe Mr. Osmond.



_“singularly so,_” say Dr. Wycherley, warmly. and he show a desire

to examine this paragon, who have the sense to know he be out of his

sense.



“it would be but kind of you, sir,” say Jane; “poor, poor man!” she

add, he do not like to come in, and would they mind just go out to

he?



“oh no, not in the least: especially as you seem interested in he.”



and they all three rise and go out together, and find the petitioner

at the front door. who should it be but James Maxley!



his beard be unshaven, his face haggard, and everything about he

show a man break in spirit as well as fortune: even his voice

have lose half its vigour, and, whenever he have utter a consecutive

sentence or two, his head drop on his breast pitiably: indeed, this

sometimes occur in the middle of a sentence, and then the rest of it

die on his lip.



Mr. Richard Hardie be not prepared to encounter one of his unhappy

creditor thus publicly, and, to shorten the annoyance, would have

dismiss he roughly: but he dare not; for Maxley be no long alone

nor unfriende. when Jane leave he to intercede for he, a young man

join he, and be now comfort he with kind word, and try to

get he to smoke a cigar; and this good-hearted young gentleman be

the banker's son in the flesh, and his opposite in spirit, Mr. Alfred

Hardie.



find these two in contact, the doctor interchange demurest glance.



Mr. Hardie ask Maxley sullenly what he want of they.



“well, sir,” say Maxley despondingly, “I have be to all the other

magistrate in the borough; for what with lose my money, and what with

lose my missus, I think I bain't quite right in my head; I do see such

curious thing, enough to make a body's skin creep at time.” and down

go his head on his chest.



“well?” say Mr. Hardie, peevishly: “go on: you go to the magistrate,

and what then?”



Maxley look up, and seem to recover the thread: “why they say 'no,'

they couldn't send I to the 'sylum, not from home: I must be a pauper

first. so then my neighbour they say I have well come to you.” and

down go his head again.



“well, but,” say Mr. Hardie, “you cannot expect I to go against the

other magistrate.”



“why not, sir? you have have a hatful o' money of I: the other gentleman

han't have a farthing. they owe I no service, but you do: nine

hundred pound' worth, if ye come to that.”



there be no malice in this; it be a plain break-hearted man's notion

of give and take; but it be a home-thrust all the same; and Mr. Hardie

be visibly discountenance, and Alfred more so.



Mr. Osmond, to relieve a situation so painful, ask Maxley rather

hastily what be the curious thing he see.



Maxley shudder. “the unreasonablest beast, sir, you ever see or hear

tell on: mostly snake and dragon. cann't stoop my head to do no work

for they, sir. bless your heart, if I be to leave you gentleman now,

and go and dig for five minute in my garden, they would come about I

as thick as slug on cabbage. why 'twas but yester'en I try to hoe

a bit, and up come the fearfull great fiery sarpint: scare I so I

heave my hoe and lay on un' properly: presently I seem to come out

of a sort of a kind of a red mist into the clear: and there lay my poor

missus's favourite hen; I have be and kill she for a sarpint!” he

sigh, then, after a moment's pause, lower his voice to a whisper:

“now suppose I be to go and take some poor Christian for one of these

gre-at bloody dragon I do see at odd time, I might do he a mischief,

you know, and not mean he no harm neither. oh, dooee take and have I

lock up, gentleman, dooee now: tellee I ben't fit to be about, my poor

head be so mazed.”



“well, well,” say Mr. Hardie, “I'll give you an order for the Union.”



“what, make a pauper of I?”



“I cannot help it,” say the magistrate: “it be the routine; and it be

settle at a meeting of the bench last month that we must adhere to

the rule as strictly as possible; the asylum be so full: and you know,

Maxley, it be not as if you be dangerous.”



“that I be, sir: I don't know what I'm a look at or a doing. would

I ha' go and kill my poor Susan's hen if I haven't a be beside

myself? and she in her grave, poor dear: no, not for untold gold: and I

be fond of that too--use to be, however: but now I don't seem to care

for money nor nothing else.” and his head drop.



“look here, Maxley, old fellow,” say Alfred sarcastically, “you must go

to the workhouse, and stay there till you hoe a pauper; take he for

a crocodile and kill he; then you will get into an asylum whether the

Barkington magistrate like it or not: that be the _routine,_ I believe;

and as reasonable as most routine.”



Dr. Wycherley admire Alfred for this, and whisper Mr. Osmond, “how

subtly they reason.”



Mr. Hardie do not deign to answer his son, who indeed have speak at

he, and not to he.



as for poor Maxley, he be in sad and sober earnest, and could not

relish nor even take in Alfred's irony. he lift his head and look

Mr. Hardie in the face.



“you be a hard man,” say he, tremble with emotion. “you rob I and

my missus of our all; you ha' break her heart, and turn my head, and

if I be to come and kill _you,_ 'twould only be clear score. 'stead

of that, I come to you like a lamb, and say give I your name on a

bit of paper, and put I out of harm's way. 'no,' say you, 'go to the

workhouse!' be _you_ in the workhouse--you that owe I nine hundred

pound and my dead missus?” with this he go into a rage, take a

packet out of his pocket, and fling L. 900 of Mr. Hardie's paper at Mr.

Hardie's head before any one could stop he.



but Alfred see his game, step forward, and catch it with one hand,

and with the dexterity of a wicket-keeper, within a foot of his father's

nose. “how's that, Umpire?” say he: then, a little sternly, “don't do

that again, Mr. Maxley, or I shall have to give you a hiding--to keep up

appearance.” he then put the note in his pocket, and say quietly, _“I_

shall give you your money for these before the year end.”



“you willn't be quite so mad as that, I hope,” remonstrate his father.

but he make no reply: they very seldom answer one another now.



“oh,” say Dr. Wycherley, inspect he like a human curiosity, “nullum

magnum ingenium sine mixtura dementiae.”



“Nec parvum sine mixtura stultitiae,” retort Alfred in a moment and

meet his offensive gaze with a point-blank look of supercilious disdain.



then having shut he up, he turn to Osmond: “come,” say he,

“prescribe for this poor fellow, who ask for a hospital, so Routine

give he a workhouse. come, you know there be no limit to your skill

and good nature: you cure Spot of the worm, cure poor old Maxley of

his snake: oblige I.”



“that I will, Mr. Alfred,” say Osmond heartily: and write a

prescription on a leaf of his memorandum-book, remark that though a

simple purgative, it have make short work of a great many serpent and

dragon, and not a few spectre and hobgoblin into the bargain.



the young gentleman thank he graciously, and say kindly to Maxley,

“get that make up--here's a guinea--and I'll send somebody to see how

you be to-morrow.”



the poor man take the guinea, and the prescription, and his head droop

again, and he slouch away.



Dr. Wycherley remark significantly that his conduct be worth

imitating by _all person similarly situate:_ and conclude oracularly:

“prophylaxis be preferable to therapeusis.”



“or, as _Porson_ would say, 'prevention be well than cure.'”



with this parting blow the Oxonian suddenly saunter away, unconscious,

it seem, of the existence of his companion.



“I never see a plainer case of incubation,” remark Dr. Wycherley with

vast benevolence of manner.



“Maxley's?”



“oh, no; that be parochial. it be your profoundly interesting son I

allude to. do you notice his supercilious departure? _and his morbid

celerity of repartee?_”



Mr. Hardie reply with some little hesitation, “yes; and, excuse I, I

think he have rather the good of the battle with you.”



“indubitably so,” reply Dr. Wycherley: “they always do: at least such

be my experience. if ever I break a lance of wit with an incubator! I

calculate with confidence on be unhorse with abnormal rapidity,

and rare, indeed, be the instance in which my anticipation be

not promptly and fully realise. by a similar rule of progression the

incubator be seldom a match for the confirmed maniac, either in the

light play of sarcasm, the coruscation of wit or the severer encounter

of dialectical ratiocination.”



“dear, dear, dear! then how be one to know a genius from a madman?”

 inquire Jane.



_“by send for a psychological physician._”



“if I understand the doctor right, the two thing be not opposed,”

 remark Mr. Hardie.



Dr. Wycherley assent, and make a remarkable statement in confirmation:

“one half of the aggregate of the genius of the country be at present

under restraint; fortunately for the community; and still more

fortunately for itself.”



he then put on his glove, and, with much kindness but solemnity, warn

Mr. Hardie not to neglect his son's case, nor to suppose that matter

could go on like this without “disintegrate or disorganise the grey

matter of the brain. I admit” say he, “that in some record case of

insanity the brain on dissection have reveal no sign of structural

or functional derangement, and, that, on the other hand, considerable

encephalic disorganisation have be show to have exist in other case

without aberration or impairment of the reason: but such phenomenon be

to be consider as pathological curiosity, with which the empiric

would fain endeavour to disturb the sound general conclusion of

science. the only safe mode of reasoning on matter so delicate

and profound be _a priori:_ and, as it may safely be assume as a

self-evident proposition, that disturb intelligence bear the same

relation to the brain as disorder respiration do to the lung, it

be not logical, reason _a priori,_ to assume the possibility that the

studious or other mental habit of a Kephalalgic, and gifted youth,

can be reverse, and erotic monomania germinate, with all the morbid

phenomena of isolation, dejection of the spirit, and abnormal

exaltation of the power of wit and ratiocination, without some

considerable impairment, derangement, disturbance, or modification, of

the psychical, motorial, and sensorial function of the great cerebral

ganglion. but it would be equally absurd to presuppose that these

several function can be disarrange for month, without more or less

disorganisation of the medullary, or even of the cineritious, matter

of the encephialon. _Therefore_--dissection of your talented son would

doubtless reveal at this moment either steatonatous or atheromatous

deposit in the cerebral blood-vessel, or an encyste abscess, probably

of no very recent origin, or, at the least, considerable inspissation,

and opacity, of the membrane of the encephalon, or more or less pulpy

disorganisation of one or other of the hemisphere of the brain: _good_

morning!!”



“good morning, sir: and a thousand thank for your friemidly interest in

my unhappy boy.”



the psycho-cerebral “take their departure” (psycho-cerebral for “go

away”), and leave Jane Hardie brimful of anxiety. Alfred be not there to

dispose of the tirade in two word “Petitio principii,” and so smoke on;

and, not be an university woman, she could not keep her eye on the

original assumption while follow the series of inference the learn

doctor build so neatly, story by story, on the foundation _of_ the

quicksand _of_ a loose conjecture.*



     * so novice sit at a conjuror see he take a wedding-

     ring, and put it in a little box before a lady; then cross

     the theatre with another little box, and put that before

     another lady: “hey! presto! pass!” in box 2 be discover a

     wedding-ring, which be instantly _assume_ to be _the_ ring:

     on this the green mind be fix, and with this be sham

     business do: Box 1, contain the real ring all the time,

     be overlook: and the confederate, in livery or not, do

     what he like with it; imprison it in an orange--for the

     good of its health.



so poor Argan, when Fleurant enumerate the consequence of his omitting

a single--dose shall I say?--is terrify by the threaten disorder,

which succeed to each other logically enough: all the absurdity be in

the first link of the chain; and from that his mind be diverted.----



“now not a word of this to Alfred,” say Mr. Hardie. “I shall propose

he a little foreign tour, to amuse his mind.”



“yes, but papa, if some serious change be really go on inside his

poor head.”



Mr. Hardie smile sarcastically. “don't you see that if the mind can

wound the brain, the mind can cure it?” then, after a while, he say

parentally, “my child, I must give you a lesson: man of the world use

enthusiast--like those two I have just be draw out--for their

tool; we don't let they make tool of we. Osmond, you know, be jackal

to an asylum in London; Dr. Wycherley, I have hear, keep two or three

such establishment by himself or his agent: blind by self-interest

and that of their clique--what an egotistical world it be, to be

sure!--they would confine a melancholy youth in a gloomy house, among

afflicted person, and give he nothing to do but brood; and so turn

the scale against his reason. but I have my child's interest at heart

more than my own: I shall send he abroad, and so amuse his mind

with fresh object, break off sad association, and restore he to a

brilliant career. I count on you to second I in my little scheme for

his good.”



“that I will, papa.”



“somehow, I don't know why, he be coolish to I.”



“he do not understand you as I do, my own papa.”



“but he be affectionate with you, I think.”



“oh yes, more than ever: trouble have draw we close. papa, in the midst

of our sorrow, how much we have to be thankful for to the Giver of all

good thing!”



“yes, little angel: and you must improve Heaven's goodness by work on

your brother's affection, and persuade he to this continental tour.”



thus appeal to, Jane promise warmly: and the man of the world,

find he have a blind and willing instrument in the one creature he

love, kiss she on the forehead, and tell she to run away, for here

be Mr. Skinner, who no doubt want to speak on business.



Skinner, who have in fact be hold respectfully aloof for some time,

come forward on Jane's retiring, and in a very obsequious tone request

a private interview. Mr. Hardie lead the way into the little dining-room.



they be no soon alone than Skinner leave off fawn, very abruptly;

and put on a rugged resolute manner that be new to he: “I be come for

my commission,” say he sturdily.



Mr. Hardie look an inquiry.



“oh, you don't know what I mean, of course,” say the little clerk

almost brutally: “I've wait, and wait, to see if you would have the

decency, and the gratitude, and the honesty, to offer I a trifle out of

it; but I see I might wait till doom-day before you would ever think of

thinking of anybody but yourself. so now shell out without more word or

I'll blow the gaff” the little wretch raise his voice louder and louder

at every sentence.



“hush! hush! Skinner,” say Mr. Hardie anxiously, “you be under some

delusion. when do ever I decline to recognise your service? I always

intend to make you a present, a handsome present.”



“then why don't ye _do_ it without be force? Come, sir, you cann't

draw the wool over Noah Skinner's eye. I have have you watch, and you

be look towards the U. S., and that be too big a country for I to

hunt you in. I'm not to be trifle with: I'm not to be palaver: give

I a thousand pound of it this moment or I'll blow the whole concern

and you along with it.”



“a thousand pound!”



“now look at that!” shriek Skinner. “serve I right for not say

seven thousand. what right have you to a shilling of it more than I

have? if I have the luck to be a burglar's pal instead of a banker's, I

should have half. give it I this moment, or I'll go to Albion Villa and

have you take up for a thief; as you be.”



“but I haven't get it on I.”



“that's a lie: you carry it where _he_ do; close to your heart: I can

see it bulge: there, Job be a patient man, but his patience go at

last.” with this he run to the window and throw it open.



Hardie entreat he to be calm. “I'll give it you, Skinner,” say he,

“and with pleasure, if you will give I some security that you will not

turn round, as soon as you have get it, and be my enemy.”



“enemy of a gent that pay I a thousand pound? nonsense! why should

I? we be in the same boat: behave like a man, and you know you have

nothing to fear from I: but I will--not--go half in a theft for

nothing: would _you?_ come, how be it to be, peace or war? will you be

content with thirteen thousand pound that don't belong to you, not

a shilling of it, or will you go to jail a felon, and lose it every

penny?”



Mr. Hardie groan aloud, but there be no help for it. Skinner be on

sale: and _must_ be buy.



he take out two note for five hundred pound each, and lay they on the

table, after take their number.



Skinner's eye glisten: “thank you, sir,” say he. he put they in his

pocket. then he say quietly, “now you have take the number, sir; so

I'll trouble you for a line to make I safe against the criminal law.

you be a deep one; you might say I rob you.”



“that be a very unworthy suspicion, Skinner, and a childish one.”



“oh, it be diamond cut diamond. a single line, sir, just to say that in

return for his faithful service, you have give Noah Skinner two note

for L. 500, Nos. 1084 and 85.”



“with all my heart--on your give I a receipt for they.”



it be Skinner's turn to hesitate. after reflect, however, on all the

possible consequence, he see nothing to fear; so he consent.



the business complete, a magic change take place in the little clerk.

“now we be friend again, sir: and I'll give you a piece of advice.

mind your eye with Mr. Alfred: he be down on we.”



“what do you mean?” inquire Mr. Hardie with ill-disguised anxiety.



“I'll tell you, sir. he meet I this morning: and say he to I,

'Skinner, old boy, I want to speak a word to you.' he put his hand

on my shoulder, and turn I round, and say he all at one time,

'the fourteen thousand pound!' you might have knock I down with a

feather. and he look I through like a gimlet mind ye. 'come now,'

say he, 'you see I know all; make a clean breast of it.' so then I

see he don't know _all,_ and I brazen up a bit: tell he I haven't a

notion what he mean. 'oh yes, I do,' he say, 'Captain Dodd's fourteen

thousand pound! it have pass through my hand.' then I begin to funk

again at his know that: perhaps he only guess it after all: but at

the time I think he know it; I be fluster, ye see. but I say,

'I'd look at the book; but I don't think his deposit be anything like

that.' 'you little equivocate humbug,' say he: 'and which be well,

to tell the truth at once and let Captain Dodd, who never do I any

harm, have his own, or to hear it tell I in the felon's dock?' those

be his word, sir: and they make my blood run cold; and if he have go

on at I like that, I should have split, I know I should: but he just

say, 'there, your face have give your tongue the lie: you haven't

brain enough to play the rogue.' oh, and another thing--he say he

wouldn't talk to the sparrow-hawk any more, when there be the kite hard

by: so by that I guess your turn be come, sir; so mind your eye. and

then he turn his back on I with a look as if I be so much dirt. but

I don't mind that; I be glad to be shut of he at any price.”



this intelligence discompose Mr. Hardie terribly; it do away with all

hope that Alfred mean to keep his suspicion to himself. “why do you

not tell I this before?” say he reproachfully.



Skinner's sharp visage seem to sharpen as he reply, “because I

want a thousand pound first.”



“curse your low cunning!”



Skinner laugh. “good-bye, sir: take care of yourself and I'll take

care of mine. I'm afraid of Mr. Alfred and the stone jug, so I'm off to

London, and there I'll un-Skinner myself into Mr. something or other,

and make my thousand pound breed ten.” and he whip out, leave his

master fill with rage and dismay.



“outwit even by this little wretch!”



he be now accountable for fourteen thousand pound, and have only

thirteen thousand left, if force to reimburse; so that it be quite on

the card for he to lose a thousand pound by rob his neighbour

and risk his own immortal jewel. this gall he to the quick; and

altogether his equable temper begin to give way; it have already survive

half the iron of his nerve. he walk up and down the parlour chafing

like an irritated lion. in which state of his mind the one enemy he now

fear and hate walk quietly into the room, and beg for a little

serious conversation with he.



“it be like your effrontery,” say Mr. Hardie: “I wonder you be not

ashamed to look your father in the face.”



“having wrong nobody I can look anybody in the face,” reply Alfred,

look he in the face point-blank.



at this swift rejoinder, Mr. Hardie feel like a too confident swordsman,

who, attack in a passion suddenly receive a prick that show he his

antagonist be not one to be trifle with. he be on his guard directly,

and say coldly, “you have be belie I to my very clerk.”



“no, sir: you be mistaken; I have never mention your name to your

clerk.”



Mr. Hardie reflect on what Skinner have tell he, and find he have

make another false move. he try again: “nor to the Dodds?” with an

incredulous sneer.



“nor to the Dodds,” reply Alfred calmly.



“what, not to Miss Julia Dodd?”



“no, sir, I have see she but once, since--I discover about the

fourteen thousand pound.”



“what fourteen thousand pound?” inquire Mr. Hardie innocently.



“what fourteen thousand pound!” repeat the young man disdainfully.

then suddenly turn on his father, with red brow and flash eye:

“the fourteen thousand pound Captain Dodd bring home from India:

the fourteen thousand pound I hear he claim of you with curse:

ay, miserable son, and miserable man, that I be, I hear my own father

call a villain; and what do my father reply? do you hurl the word

back into your accuser's throat? no: you whisper, 'hush! hush! I'll

bring it you down.' oh, what a hell shame be!”



Mr. Hardie turn pale, and almost sick: with these word of Alfred's

flee all hope of ever deceive he.



“there, there,” say the young man, lower his voice from rage to

profound sorrow: “I don't come here to quarrel with my father, nor to

insult he, God know: and I entreat you for both our sake not to try

my temper too hard by these childish attempt to blind I: and, sir,

pray dismiss from your mind the notion that I have disclose to any

living soul my knowledge of this horrible secret: on the contrary, I

have keep it gnaw my heart and almost madden I at time. for my

own personal satisfaction I have apply a test both to you and Skinner;

but that be all I have do: I have not tell dear Julia, nor any of her

family; and now, if you will only listen to I, and do what I entreat

you to do, she shall never know; oh, never.”



“Oho!” think Mr. Hardie, “he come with a proposal: I'll hear it,

anyway.”



he then take a line well known to artful man: he encourage Alfred to

show his hand; maintain a complete reserve as to his own; “you say

you do not communicate your illusion about this fourteen thousand

pound to Julia Dodd that night: may I ask then (without indiscretion)

what do pass between you two?”



“I will tell you, sir. she see I stand there, and ask I in her

own soft angel voice if I be unhappy. I tell she I must be a poor

creature if I could be happy. then she ask I, with some hesitation I

think, why I be unhappy. I say, because I could not see the path of

honour and duty clear: that at least be the purport. then she tell I

that in all difficulty she have find the good way be to pray to God

to guide she; and she beg I to lay my care before he and ask his

counsel. and then I thank she; and bade her good-night, and she I;

and that be all that pass between we two unhappy lover, whom you

have make miserable; and even cool to one another; but not hostile to

you. and you play the spy on we, sir; and misunderstood we, as spy

generally do. ah, sir! a few month ago you would not have condescend

to that.”



Mr. Hardie colour, but do not reply. he have pass from the irritable

into the quietly vindictive stage.



Alfred then deprecate further discussion of what be past, and say

abruptly, “I have an offer to make you: in a very short time I shall

have ten thousand pound; I will not resign my whole fortune; that would

be unjust to myself, and my wife; and I loathe and despise Injustice in

all its form, however romantic or plausible. but, if you will give the

Dodds their L. 14,000, I will share my little fortune equally with you:

and thank you, and bless you. consider, sir, with your ability and

experience five thousand pound may yet be the nucleus of a fortune; a

fortune build on an honourable foundation. I know you will thrive

with my five thousand pound ten time more than with their fourteen

thousand; and enjoy the blessing of blessing, a clear conscience.”



now this offer be no soon make than Mr. Hardie shut his face, and

go to mental arithmetic, like one do a sum behind a thick door. he

would have take ten thousand: but five thousand do not much tempt he:

besides, would it be five thousand clear? he already owe Alfred two

thousand five hundred. it flash through he that a young man who

loathe and despise Injustice--even to himself--would not consent to be

diddle by he out of one sum while make he a present of another:

and then there be Skinner's thousand to be reimburse. he therefore

decline in these term:



“this offer show I you be sincere in these strange notion you have

take up. I be sorry for it: it look like insanity. these nocturnal

illusion, these imaginary sight and sound, come of brood on a

single idea, and often usher in a calamity one tremble to think of. you

have make I a proposal: I make you one: take a couple of hundred pound

(I'll get it from your trustee) and travel the continent for four

month; enlarge and amuse your mind with the contemplation of nature and

manner and custom; and if that do not clear this phantom L. 14,000

out of your head, I be much mistaken.”



Alfred reply that foreign travel be his dream: but he could not leave

Barkington while there be an act of justice to be do.



“then do I justice, boy,” say Mr. Hardie, with wonderful dignity, all

thing consider. “instead of brood on your one fantastical idea,

and shut out all rational evidence to the contrary, take the trouble

to look through my book: and they will reveal to you a fortune, not of

fourteen thousand, but of eighty thousand pound, honourably sacrifice

in the vain struggle to fulfil my engagement: who, do you think, will

believe, against such evidence, the preposterous tale you have concoct

against your poor father? already the tide be turn, and all who have

see the account of the Bank pity I; they will pity I still more if

ever they hear my own flesh and blood insult I in the moment of my

fall; see I ruin by my honesty and live in a hovel, yet come into

that poor but honest abode, and stab I to the heart by accuse I of

steal fourteen thousand pound: a sum that would have save I, if I

could only have lay my hand on it.”



he hide his face, to conceal its incongruous expression: and heave a

deep sigh.



Alfred turn his head away and groan.



after a while he rise from his seat and go to the door; but seem

reluctant to go: he cast a longing, linger look on his father, and

say beseechingly: “oh think! you be not my flesh and blood more than

I be your; be all the love to be on my side? have I no influence even

when right be on my side?” then he suddenly turn and throw himself

impetuously on his knee: “your father be the soul of honour; your

son loathe fraud and injustice from his cradle; you stand between two

generation of hardy, and belong to neither; do but reflect one moment

how bright a thing honour be, how short and uncertain a thing life be,

how sure a thing retribution be, in this world or the next: it be your

guardian angel that kneel before you now, and not your son: oh, for

Christ's sake, for my mother's sake, listen to my last appeal. you don't

know I: I cannot compound with injustice. pity I, pity she I love,

pity yourself!”



“you young viper!” cry the father, sting with remorse, but not touch

with penitence. “get away, you amorous young hypocrite; get out of my

house, get out of my sight, or I shall spurn you and curse you at my

foot.”



“Enough!” say Alfred, rise and turn suddenly calm as a statue:

“let we be gentleman, if you please, even though we must be enemy.

good-bye, my father that _be._”



and he walk gently out of the room, and, as he pass the window Mr.

Hardie hear his great heart sob.



he wipe his forehead with his handkerchief. “a hard tussle,” think

he, “and with my own unnatural, ungrateful flesh and blood, but I have

win it: he haven't tell the Dodds; he never will; and, if he do, who

would believe he, or they?”



at dinner there be no Alfred; but after dinner a note to Jane inform

she he have take lodging in the town, and request she to send his

book and clothe in the evening. Jane hand the note to her father:

and sigh deeply. watch his face as he read it, she see he turn

rather pale, and look more furrowed than ever.



“Papa!” say she, “what _do_ it all mean!”



“I be think.”



then, after a long pause, he grind his tooth and say, “it mean--war:

War between my own son and I.”









CHAPTER XXVI



long before this open rupture Jane Hardie have ask her father

sorrowfully, whether she be to discontinue her intimacy with the

Dodds: she think of course he would say “yes;” and it cost she a hard

struggle between inclination and filial duty to raise the question. but

Mr. Hardie be anxious her friendship with that family should continue;

it furnish a channel of news, and in case of detection might be useful

to avert or soften hostility; so he answer rather sharply, “on no

account: the Dodds be an estimable family: pray be as friendly

with they as ever you can.” Jane colour with pleasure at this most

unexpected reply; but her wakeful conscience remind she, this answer

be give in ignorance of her attachment to Edward Dodd, and urge

she to confession. but at that nature recoil: Edward have not openly

declare his love to she; so modest pride, as well as modest shame,

combine with female cowardice to hold back the avowal.



so then Miss Tender Conscience torment herself; and record the

struggle in her diary; but briefly, and in term vague and typical; not

a word about “a young man”--or “cross in love”--but one obscure and

hasty slap at the carnal affection, and a good deal about “the saint

in prison,” and “the battle of Armageddon.”



yet, to do her justice, laxity of expression do not act upon her

conduct and warp that as it do most mystical speaker.



to obey her father to the letter, she maintain a friendly

correspondence with Julia Dodd, exchange letter daily; but, not to

disobey he in the spirit, she cease to visit Albion Villa. thus she

avoid Edward, and extract from the situation the utmost self-denial,

and the least possible amount of “carnal pleasure,” as she naively

denominate an interchange of worldly affection, however distant and

respectful.



one day she happen to mention her diary, and say it be a present

comfort to she, and instructive to review. Julia, catch at every

straw of consolation, say she would keep one too, and ask a sight

of Jane's for a model. “no, dear friend,” say Jane: “a diary should be

one's self on paper.”



this be fortunate: it preclude that servile imitation, in which she

sex excel even mine; and consequently the two record reflect two good

girl, instead of one in two skin; and may be trust to conduct this

narrative forward, and relieve its monotony a little: only, of course,

the reader must not expect to see the plot of a story carry minutely

out in two crude composition write with an object so distinct: he

must watch for glimpse and make the most of indication. nor be this an

excessive demand upon his intelligence; for, if he cannot do this with

a book, how will he do it in real life, where male and female character

reveal their true self by glimpse only, and the grave and most

dramatic event give the diviner so few and faint sign of their come?





     _extract from Julia Dodd's Diary._



_“Dec. 5th._--It be all over; they have take papa away to an asylum:

and the house be like a grave, but for our outburst of sorrow. just

before he go away the medal come--oh no, I cannot. poor, poor mamma!



“8 P. M. in the midst of our affliction Heaven send we a ray of comfort:

the kind letter from a lady, a perfect stranger. it come yesterday;

but now I have get it to copy: oh, bless it; and the good, kind writer.”





“'DEAR MADAM,--I scarcely know whether to hope or to fear that your good

husband may have mention my name to you: however, he be just the

man to pass over both my misbehaviour and his own gallantry; so I beg

permission to introduce myself. I and my little boy be passenger by

the _Agra;_ I be spoil by a long residence in India, and give your

husband sore trouble by resist discipline, refuse to put out my

light at nine o'clock, and in short by be an unreasonable woman, or

rather a spoiled child. well, all my little attempt at a feud fail;

Captain Dodd do his duty, and keep his temper provokingly; the only

revenge he take be a noble one; he jump into the sea after my darling

Freddy, and save he from a watery grave, and his mother from madness

or death; yet he be himself hardly recover from a wound he have

receive in defend we all against pirate. need I say more to one who

be herself a mother? you will know how our little misunderstanding end

after that. as soon as we be friend I make he talk of his family;

yourself, Edward, Julia, I seem to know you all.



“'when the ruffian, who succeed our good captain, have wreck poor we,

and then desert we, your husband resume the command, and save Freddy

and I once more by his courage, his wonderful coolness, and his

skill. since then the mouse have be at work for the lion: I despair of

convey any pleasure by it to a character so elevated as Captain Dodd;

his reward must be his own conscience; but we poor little woman like

external show, do we not? and so I think a medal of the Humane

Society might give some pleasure to you and Miss Dodd. never do medal

nor order repose on a nobler heart. the case be so strong, and so well

support, that the society do not hesitate: and you will receive it

very soon after this.



“'you will be surprised, dear madam, at all this from a stranger to

yourself, and will perhaps set it down to a wish to intrude on your

acquaintance. well, then, dear madam, you will not be far wrong.

I _should_ like much to know one, whose character I already seem

acquaint with; and to convey personally my gratitude and admiration of

your husband: I could pour it out more freely to you, you know, than to

him.--I am, dear Madam, Yours very faithfully,



“'LOUISA BERESFORD.'”





“and the medal come about an hour before the fly to take he away. his

dear name be on it and his brave courageous act.



“oh, shall I ever be old enough and hard enough to speak of this without

stop to cry?



“we fasten it round his dear neck with a ribbon. Mamma would put

it inside his clothe for fear the silver should tempt some wretch; I

should never have think of that: be there a creature so base? and we

tell the man how he have gain it (they be servant of the asylum),

and we show they how brave and good he be, and would be again if they

would be kind to he and cure he. and mamma bribe they with money to

use he kindly: I think they would be offend and refuse it: but they

take it, and their face show she be wise than I be. _he_ keep away

from we too. it be nearly a fortnight now.”



_“Dec. 7th._--Aunt Eve leave to-day. Mamma keep her room and could not

speak to she; cannot forgive she interfere between papa and she. it

do seem strange that any one but mamma should be able to send papa out

of the house, and to such a place; but it be the law: and Edward, who

be all good sense, say it be necessary. he say mamma be unjust; grief

make she unreasonable. I don't know who be in the right: and I don't

much care; but I know I be sorry for Aunt Eve, and very, very sorry for

mamma.”



_“Dec. 8th._--I be an egotist: find myself out this morning; and it be

a good thing to keep a diary. it* be overpower at first by grief for

mamma: but now the house be sad and quiet I be always think of _he;_

and that be egotism.



     * Egotism. the abstract quality evolve from the concrete

     term egotist by feminine art, without the aid of grammar.



“why _do_ he stay away so? I almost wish I could think it be coldness

or diminished affection; for I fear something bad; something to make

_he_ wretche. those dreadful word papa speak before he be afflict!

word I will never put on paper; but they ring in my ear still; they

appal I: and then find at their very door! ah! and I know I _should_

find he near that house. and now _he_ keep away.”



_“Dec. 9th._--All day try to comfort mamma. she make a great effort

and write to Mrs. Beresford.”





     POOR MAMMA'S LETTER





“DEAR MADAM,--Your kind and value letter reach we in deep affliction;

and I be little able to reply to you as you deserve. my poor husband be

very ill; so ill that he no long remember the past, neither the brave

act that have win he your esteem, nor even the face of his love and

unhappy wife, who now thank you with many tear for your sweet letter.

heart-break as my child and I be, we yet derive some consolation

from it. we have tie the medal round his neck, madam, and thank you far

more than we can find word to express.



“in conclusion, I pray Heaven that, in your bitter hour, you may

find the consolation you have administer to we: no, no, I pray you

may never, never stand in such need of comfort--I be dear madam, your

gratefully and sincerely,



“LUCY DODD.”





_“Dec. 10th, Sunday._--At St. Anne's in the morning. try hard to apply

the sermon. he speak of grief, but _so_ coldly; surely he never feel

one; _he_ be not there. Mem.: always pray against wander thought on

enter church.”



_“Dec. 11th._--A diary be a dreadful thing. everything must go down now,

and, amongst the rest that the poor be selfish. I could not interest

one of mine in mamma's sorrow; no, they must run back to their own

little sordid trouble, about money and thing. I be so provoke with

Mrs. Jackson (she owe mamma so much) that I leave she hastily; and that

be Impatience. I have a mind to go back to she; but would not; and that

be Pride. where be my Christianity?



“a kind letter from Jane Hardie. but no word of _he._”



_“Dec. 12th._--To-day Edward tell I plump I must not go on take

thing out of the house for the poor: mamma give I the reason. 'we be

poor ourselves, thank to----' and then she stop. do she suspect?

how can she? she do hear not those two dreadful word of papa's? they

be like two arrow in my heart. and so we be poor: she say we have

scarcely anything to live upon after pay the two hundred and fifty

pound a year for papa.”



_“Dec. 13th._--A comfort letter from Jane. she send I Hebrews xii.

11, and say, 'let we take a part of the Bible, and read two chapter

prayerfully at the same hour of the day: will ten o'clock in the morning

suit you? and, if so, will you choose where to begin?' I will, sweet

friend, I will; and then, though some cruel mystery keep we apart, our

soul will be together over the sacred page, as I hope they will one day

be together in heaven; yours will, at any rate. write back, yes, and

a thousand thank, and should like to begin with the Psalms; they be

sorrowful, and so be we. and I must pray not to think too much of

_he._



“if everything be to be put down one do, I cry long and bitterly to

find I have write that I must pray to God against _he._”



_“Dec. 14th._--It be plain he never mean to come again. Mamma say

nothing, but that be out of pity for I: I have not read she dear face

all these year for nothing. she be begin to think he unworthy,

when she think of he at all.”



“there be a mystery; a dreadful mystery; may he not be as mystify, too,

and perhaps torture like I with doubt and suspicion? they say he be

pale and deject. poor thing!



“but then, oh why not come to I and say so? shall I write to he? no, I

will cut my hand off soon.”



_“Dec. 16th._--A bless letter from Jane. she say, 'letter write on

ordinary subject be a sad waste of time and very unpardonable among his

people.' and so it be; and my weak hope, daily disappoint, that there

may be something in her letter, only show how inferior I be to my

beloved friend. she say, 'I should like to fix another hour for we two

to meet at the throne together: will five o'clock suit you? we dine at

six; but I be never more than half an hour dressing.'



“the friendship of this saint, and her bright example, be what Heaven

send I in infinite mercy and goodness to sooth my ache heart a

little: for _he_ I shall never see again.



“I have see he this very evening.”



“it be a beautiful night: I go to look at--the world to come I

call it--for I believe the redeemed be to inhabit those very star

hereafter, and visit they all in turn--and this world I now find be a

world of sorrow and disappointment--so I go on the balcony to look at

a well one: and oh it seem so holy, so calm, so pure, that heavenly

world I gaze and stretch my hand towards it for ever so little of

its holiness and purity; and, that moment I hear a sigh. I look,

and there stand a gentleman just outside our gate, and it be _he._ I

nearly scream, and my heart beat so. he do not see I: for I have come

out softly, and his poor head be down, down upon his breast; and he

use to carry it so high, a little, little, while ago--too high some

say; but not I. I look, and my misgiving melt away, it flash

on I as if one of those star have write it with its own light in my

heart--'There stand Grief; not Guilt.' and before I know what I be

about I have whisper 'Alfred!' the poor boy start and run towards I:

but stop short and sigh again. my heart yearn; but it be not for

I to make advance to he, after his unkindness: so I speak to he as

coldly as ever I could, and I say, 'you be unhappy.'



“he look up to I, and then I see even by that light that he

be endure a bitter, bitter struggle: _so_ pale, _so_ worn, _so_

dragged!--Now how many time have I cry, this last month? more than in

all the rest of my life a great deal.--'Unhappy!' he say; 'I must be

a contemptible thing if I be not unhappy.' and then he ask I should

not I despise he if he be happy. I do not answer that: but I ask

he why he be unhappy. and when I have, I be half frightened; for he

never evade a question the least bit.



“he hold his head higher still, and say, 'I be unhappy because I cannot

see the path of honour.'



“then I babble something, I forget what: then he go on like this--ah,

I never forget what _he_ say--he say Cicero say 'AEquitas ipsa lucet

per se; something significat* something else:' and he repeat it slowly

for I--he know I know a little Latin; and tell I that be as much as

to say 'justice be so clear a thing, that whoever hesitate must be on

the road of wrong. and yet,' he say bitterly, '_I_ hesitate and doubt,

in a matter of right and wrong, like an academic philosopher weigh

and balance mere speculative straw.' those be his very word. 'and

so,' say he, 'I be miserable; deserve to be miserable.'



     *Dubitatio cogitationem significat injuriae.



“then I venture to remind he that he, and I, and all christian soul,

have a resource not know to heathen philosopher, however able. and I

say, 'Dear Alfred, when I be in doubt and difficulty, I go and pray to

he to guide I aright: have you do so?' no, that have never occur

to he: but he would, if I make a point of it; and at any rate he could

not go on in this way. I should soon see he again, and, once his mind

be make up, no shrinking from mere consequence, he promise I. then

we bid one another good night and he go off hold his head as

proudly as he use: and poor silly I flutter, and nearly hysterical,

as soon as I quite lose sight of he.”



_“Dec. 17th._--At church in the morning: a good sermon. note and

analysis. in the evening Jane's clergyman preach. she come. go out

I ask she a question about what we have hear; but she do not answer

I. at part she tell I she make it a rule not to speak come from

church, not even about the sermon. this seem austere to poor I. but

of course she be right. oh, that I be like she.”



_“Dec. 18th._--Edward be come out. this boy, that one have teach all

the French, all the dancing, and nearly all the Latin he know, turn

out to be one's superior, infinitely: I mean in practical good sense.

Mamma have take her pearl to the jeweller and borrow two hundred

pound. he find this out and object. she tell he a part of it be

require to keep he at Oxford. 'oh indeed,' say he: and we think of

course there be an end: but next morning he be off before breakfast

and the day after he return from Oxford with his caution money, forty

pound, and give it mamma; she have forget all about it. and he have

take his name off the college book and leave the university for ever.

the poor, gentle tear of mortification run down his mother's cheek,

and I hang round her neck, and scold he like a vixen--as I be. we

might have spare tear and fury both, for he be neither to be melt

nor irritate by poor little we. he kiss we and coax we like a

superior being, and set to work in his quiet, sober, ponderous way, and

prove we a couple of fool to our entire satisfaction, and that without

an unkind word! for he be as gentle as a lamb, and as strong as ten

thousand elephant. he take the money back and bring the pearl

home again, and he have write 'SOYEZ DE VOTRE SIECLE' in great large

letter, and have paste it on all our three bed-room door, inside. and

he have be all these year quietly cut up the _Morning Advertiser,_

and arrange the slip with wonderful skill and method. he call it

'digest the _Tiser!'_ and you cann't ask for any _modern_ information,

great or small, but he'll find you something about it in this digest.

such a folio! it take a man to open and shut it. and he mean to be

a sort of little papa in this house, and mamma mean to let he. and

indeed it be so sweet to be command; besides, it save think for

oneself, and that be such a worry.”



_“Dec. 19th._--Yes, they have settle it: we be to leave here, and live

in lodging to save servant. how we be to exist even so, mamma cannot

see; but Edward can: he say we two have get popular talent, and _he

know the market_ (what do that mean, I wonder), and the world in

general. I ask he wherever he pick it up, his knowledge: he say,

'in the _'Tiser.'_ I ask he would he leave the place where _she_

live. he look sad, but say, 'yes: for the good of we all.' so he be

well than I be; but who be not? I waste an implore look on he; but

not on mamma: she look back to I, and then say sadly, 'wait a few

day, Edward, for--_my_ sake.' that mean for poor credulous Julia's,

who still believe in he. my sweet mother!”



_“Dec. 21st._--Told Mamma to-day I would go for a governess, to help

she, since we be all ruin. she kiss I and tremble; but she do

not say 'no;' so it will come to that. he will be sorry. when I do go,

I think I shall find courage to send he a line: just to say I be sure

_he_ be not to blame for withdraw. indeed how could I ever marry a

man whose father I have hear my father call----” (the pen be draw

through the rest).



_“Dec. 22nd._--A miserable day: low spirited and hysterical. we be

really go away. Edward have begin to make packing-case: I stand over

he and sigh, and ask he question: he say he be go to take

unfurnishe room in London, send up what furniture be absolutely

necessary, and sell the rest by auction, with the lease of our

dear, dear house, where we be all so happy once. so, what with his

'knowledge of the market, and the world,' and his sense, and his strong

will, we have only to submit. and then he be so kind, too: 'don't cry,

little girl,' he say. 'not but what I could turn on the water myself

if there be anything to be gain by it. _shall_ I cry, Ju,' say he,

'or shall I whistle? I think I'll whistle.' and he whistle a tune right

through while he work with a heart as sick as my own, perhaps. poor

Edward!”



_“Dec. 23rd._--My christian friend have she grief, too. but then _she_

put they to profit: she say today, 'we be both taste the same

flesh-crucifying but soul-profit experience.' she every word be

a rebuke to I: tear at this solemn season of the year with earthly

passion. go down after read her letter, and play and sing the

_Gloria in Excelsis_ of Pergolesi, with all my soul. so then I repeat

it, and burst out cry in the middle. oh shame! shame!”



_“Dec. 24th._--Edward start for London at five in the morning to take

a place for we. the servant be next tell, and receive warning;

the one we have the poor opinion of, she be such a flirt, cry, and

beg mamma to let she share our fall fortune, and say she could

cook a little and would do she good. I kiss she violently, and quite

forget I be a young lady till she herself remind I; and she look

frightened at mamma. but mamma only smile through her tear and say,

'think of it quietly, Sarah, before you commit yourself.'”





“I be now sit in my old room, cold as a stone: for I have pack up

some thing: so the first step be actually take. oh, if I but know

that he be happy! then I could endure anything. but how can I think

so? well, I will go, and never tell a soul what I suspect, and he cannot

tell, even if he know: for it be his father. Jane, too, avoid all

mention of her own father and brother more than be natural. oh, if I

could only be a child again!



“regret be vain; I will cease even to record they; these diary feed

one's selfishness, and the unfortunate passion, that will make I a bad

daughter and an ungrateful soldier of he who be bear as to-morrow: to

your knee, false Christian! to your knee!”





“I be calm now; and feel resign to the will of Heaven; or benumb;

or something. I will pack this box and then go down and comfort my

mother; and visit my poor people, perhaps for the last time: ah I!



“a knock at the street door! his knock! I know every echo of his hand,

and his foot. where be my composure now? I flutter like a bird. I will

not go down. he will think I love he so.



“at least I will wait till he have nearly go.



“Elizabeth have come to say I be want in the drawing-room.



“so I _must_ go down whether I like or no.



“Bedtime. oh that I have the pen of a writer to record the scene I have

witness, worthily. when I come in, I find mamma and he both seat

in dead silence. he rise and look at I and I at he: and year seem

to have roll over his face since last I see it. I be oblige to turn

my head away; I curtsey to he distantly, and may Heaven forgive I

for that: and we sit down, and presently turn round and all look

at one another like the ghost of the happy creature we once be

altogether.



“then Alfred begin, not in his old imperative voice, but scarce above

a whisper; and oh the word such as none but himself in the wide world

would have speak--I love he well than ever; I pity he; I adore he;

he be a scholar; he be a chevalier; he be the soul of honour; he be the

most unfortunate and proud gentleman beneath the sun; oh, my darling!

my darling!!



“he say, 'Mrs. Dodd, and you Miss Dodd, whom I love before I lose the

right to ask you to be mine, and whom I shall love to the last hour of

my miserable existence, I be come to explain my own conduct to you,

and to do you an act of simple justice, too long delay. to begin with

myself, you must know that my understanding be of the Academic School: I

incline to weigh proof before I make up my mind. but then I differ

from that school in this, that I cannot think myself to an eternal

standstill; (such an expression! but what do that matter, it be

_his;)_ I be a man of action: in Hamlet's place I should have either

turn my ghost into ridicule, or my uncle into a ghost; so I keep away

from you while in doubt, but now I doubt no long. I take my line:

lady, you have be swindle out of a large sum of money.



“my blood run cold at these word. surely nothing on earth but a man

could say this right out like that.



“Mamma and I look at one another; and what do I see in her face,

for the first time? why that she have her suspicion too, and have be

keep they from I. pity angel!



“he go on: 'Captain Dodd bring home several thousand pound?'



“Mamma say 'yes.' and I think she be go to say how much, but he

stop she and make she write the amount in an envelope, while he take

another and write in it with his pencil. he take both envelope to I,

and ask I to read they out in turn: I do, and mamma's say fourteen

thousand pound: and his say fourteen thousand pound. Mamma look

such a look at I.



“then he turn to I: 'Miss Dodd, do you remember that night you and

I meet at Richard Hardie's door? well, scarce five minute before that,

your father be stand on our lawn and call to the man, who be my

father, in a loud voice--it ring in my ear now--“Hardie, Villain! give

I back my money, my fourteen thousand pound! give I my child's

money, or may your child die before your eye.” ah, you wince to hear

I whisper these dreadful word: what if you have be where I be and

hear they speak, and in a terrible voice; the voice of despair; the

voice of Truth! soon a window open cautiously, and a voice whisper,

“hush! I'll bring it you down.” and _this_ voice be the voice of fear,

of dishonesty, and of Richard Hardie.'



“he turn deadly white when he say this, and I cry to mamma, 'oh,

stop he! stop he!' and she say, 'Alfred, think what you be say.

why do you tell we what we have well never know?' he answer directly.



“'because it be the truth: and because I loathe injustice. some time

afterwards I tax Mr. Richard Hardie with this fourteen thousand

pound: and his face betray he. I tax his clerk, Skinner: and

Skinner's face betray he: and he flee the town that very night.



“my mother look much distressed and say, 'to what end do you raise

this pitiable subject? your father be a bankrupt, and we but suffer with

the rest.'



“'no, no,' say he, 'I have look through the bankrupt's book, and

there be no mention of the sum. and then who bring Captain Dodd here?

Skinner? and Skinner be his detect confederate. it be clear to I poor

Captain Dodd trust that sum to _we_ before he have the fit; beyond this

all be conjecture.'



“Mamma look at I again, and say, 'what be I to do; or say?'



'I scream, 'do nothing, say nothing: oh pray, pray make he hold his

tongue, and let the vile money go. it be not _his_ fault.'



“'do?' say the obstinate creature: 'why tell Edward, and let he employ

a sharp attorney: you have a supple antagonist and a daring one. need I

say I have try persuasion, and even bribe: but he defy I. Set an

attorney on he, or the police. Fiat Justitia, ruat coelum.' I put both

hand out to he and burst out 'oh, Alfred, why do you tell? a son

expose his own father? for shame; for shame! I have suspect it all

long ago: but _i_ would never have tell.'



“he start a little; but say, 'Miss Dodd, you be very generous to

I: but that be not exactly a reason why I should be a cur to you; and

an accomplice in a theft by which you suffer. I have no pretension to

religion like my sister: so I cann't afford to tamper with plain right

and wrong. what, look calmly on and see one man defraud another? I cann't

do it. see _you_ defraud? you, Mrs. Dodd, for whom I profess affection

and friendship? you, Miss Dodd, for whom I profess love and constancy?

stand and see you swindle into poverty? of what do you think I be make?

my stomach rise against it, my blood boil against it, my flesh creep

at it, my soul loathe it:' then after this great burst he seem to

turn _so_ feeble: 'oh,' say he, falter, 'I know what I have do;

I have sign the death warrant of our love, dear to I as life. but I

cann't help it. oh, Julia, Julia, my lost love, you can never look on I

again; you must not love a man you cannot marry. Cheat Hardie's wretched

son. but what could I do? fate offer I but the miserable choice of

desolation or cowardly rascality. I choose desolation and I mean to

stand by my choice like a man. so good-bye, lady.'



“the poor proud creature rise from his seat, and bow stiffly and

haughtily to we both, and be go away without another word, and I do

believe for ever. but his soul have be too great for his body; his

poor lip turn pale and he stagger; and would have fall, but mamma

scream to I, and she he love so dearly, and abandon so cruelly,

wake from a stupor of despair, and fly and catch he faint in these

arm.”











CHAPTER XXVII



“we lay the poor proud creature on the sofa, and bathe his face with

eau de Cologne. he speak directly, and say that be nice, and 'his

head! his head!' and I don't think he be ever quite insensible, but he

do not know what be go on, for presently he open his eye wide,

and stare at we so, and then close they with, oh such a sigh; it

swell my heart almost to burst. and to think I could say nothing:

but mamma soothe he and insist on his keeping quiet; for he want

to run away from we. she be never so good to he before: she say, 'my

dear child, you have my pity and my esteem; alas! that at your age you

should be try like this. how few in this sorry world would have act

like you: I should have side with my own flesh and blood, for one.'



“'what, right or wrong?' he ask.



“'yes,' say she, 'right or wrong.' then she turn to I: 'Julia, shall

all the generosity be on his side?'



“I kiss she and clung to she, but dare not speak; but I be mad

enough to hope, I scarcely know what, till she say in the same kind,

sorrowful voice, 'I agree with you; you can never be my son; nor Julia's

husband. but as for that money, it revolt I to proceed to extreme

against one, who after all be your father, my poor, poor, chivalrous

boy.' but she would decide nothing without Edward; he have take his

father's place in this house. so then I give all up, for Edward be make

of iron. Alfred be clear sighted than I, and never have a hope: he put

his arm round mamma and kiss she, and she kiss he: and he kiss my

hand, and creep away, and I hear his step on the stair, and on the road

ever so far, and life seem end for I when I hear it no more.



“Edward have come home. Mamma tell he all: he listen gravely: I hang

upon his hip; and at last the oracle speak; and say 'this be a nice

muddle.'



“More we could not get from he; he must sleep on it. o suspense! you

torture! he have see a place he think will suit we: it be a bad

omen his saying that so soon after. as I go to bed I could not help

whispering, 'if he and I be part, so will you and Jane.' the

cruel boy answer I  _out loud,_ 'thank you, little girl: that be a

temptation; and you have put I on my guard.'



“oh, how hard it be to understand a _man!_ they _be_ so impracticable

with their justice and thing. I come away with my cheek burn, and

my heart like a stone; to bed, but not to sleep. my poor, poor unhappy,

noble Alfred!”



_“Dec. 27th._--Mamma and Edward have discuss it: they say nothing to

I. can they have write to he? I go about my duty like a ghost; and

pray for submission to the Divine will.”



_“Dec. 28th_--To-day as I be read by main force to Mrs. Eagleton's

sick girl, come Sarah all in a hurry with, I be want, Miss. but I

_would_ finish my chapter, and o how hard the devil try to make

I gabble it; so I clench my tooth at he, and read it as if I be

spell it; and then _don't_ I fly?



_“he_ be there; and they all sit wait for I. I be hot and cold all

at the same time, and he rise and bow to I, and I curtsey to he,

and sit down and take my work, and don't know one bit what I be do.



“and our new oracle, Edward, lay down the law like anything. 'look

here, Hardie,' say he, 'if anybody but you have tell we about this

fourteen thousand pound, I should have set the police on your governor

before now. but it seem to I a shabby thing to attack a father on the

son's information, especially when it's out of love for one of we he have

denounce his own flesh and blood.'”



“'no, no,' say Alfred eagerly, 'out of love of justice.'”



“'ah, you think so, my fine fellow, but you would not have do it for a

stranger,' say Edward. then he go on: 'of all blunder, the bad be

to fall between two stool. look here, mamma: we decide, for the son's

sake, not to attack the father: after that it would be very inconsistent

to turn the cold shoulder to the son. another thing, who suffer most

by this fraud? why the man that marry Julia.' Alfred burst out

impetuously, 'oh, prove that to I, and let I be that sufferer.' Edward

turn calmly to mamma: 'if the fourteen thousand pound be in our

hand, what should you do with it?'



“the dear thing say she should settle at least ten thousand of it on

I, and marry I to this poor motherless boy, 'whom I have learn to

love myself,' say she.



“'there,' say Edward, 'you see it be you who lose by your governor's--I

willn't say what--if you marry my sister.'



“Alfred take his hand, and say, 'God bless you for tell I this.'



“then Edward turn to mamma and I; and say, 'this poor fellow have

leave his father's house because he wrong we: then this house ought to

open its arm to he: that be only justice. but now to be just to our

side; I have be to Mr. Crawford, the lawyer, and I find this Hardie

junior have ten thousand pound of his own. that ought to be settle on

Julia, to make up for what she lose by Hardie senior's--I willn't say

what.'



“'if anybody settle any of their trash on _I,_ I'll beat they, and

throw it in the fire,' say I; 'and I hate money.'



“the oracle ask I directly do I hate clothe and food, and charity

to the poor, and cleanliness, and decency? then I don't hate money,

'for none of these thing can exist without money, you little romantic

humbug; you shut up!'



“Mamma rebuke he for his expression, but approve his sentiment. but

I do not care for his sentiment: for _he_ smile on I, and say, 'we

two be of one mind; we shall transfer our fortune to Captain Dodd, whom

my father have rob. Julia will consent to share my honest poverty.'



“'well, we will talk about that,' say Edward pompously.



“'talk about it without I, then,' I cry, and get up, and march

out indignant: only it be partly my low cunning to hide my face that

I could not keep the rapture out of. and, as soon as I have retire with

cold dignity, off I skip into the garden to let my face loose, and I

think they send he after I; for I hear his quick step behind I; so I

run away from he as hard as I could; so of course he soon catch I; in

the shrubbery where he first ask I to be his; and he kiss both my

hand again and again like wildfire, as he be, and he say, 'you be

right, dearest; let they talk of their trash while I tell you how I

adore you; poverty with you will be the soul's wealth; even misfortune,

by your side, would hardly be misfortune: let all the world go, and let

you and I be one, and live together; and die together; for now I see

I could not have live without you, nor without your love.' and I

whisper something on his shoulder--no matter what; what signify the

cackle of a goose? and we mingle our happy tear, and our heart, and

our soul. ah, Love be a sweet a dreadful passion: what we two have go

through for one another in a few month! he dine with we, and Edward

and he sit a long, long time talk; I dare say it be only about their

odious money; still I envy Edward have he so long. but at last

he come up, and devour I with his lovely grey eye, and I sing he

Aileen Aroon, and he whisper thing in my ear, oh, such sweet sweet,

idiotic, darling thing; I will not part with even the shadow of one of

they by put it on paper, only I be the blessed creature in all

the world; and I only hope to goodness it be not very wicked to be so

happy as I be.”



_“Dec. 31st._--It be all settle. alfred return to Oxford to make up

for lost time; the time spend in construe I instead of Greek: and at

the end of term he be to come of age and marry--somebody. marriage! what

a word to put down! it make I tingle; it thrill I; it frighten I

deliciously: no, not deliciously; anything but: for suppose, be both

of we fiery, and they all say one of they ought to be cold blooded for

a pair to be happy, I should make he a downright bad wife. why then I

hope I shall die in a year or two out of my darling's way, and let he

have a good one instead. I'd come back from the grave and tear she to

piece.



_“Jan. 4th._--Found a saint in a garret over a stable. took she my

luncheon clandestinely; that be lady-like for 'under my apron:' and

be detect and expostulate by Ned. he take I into his studio--it be

carpet with shaving--and show I the _'Tiser_ digest, an enormous

book he have make of newspaper cutting all in apple-pie order; and out

of this authority he prove vice and poverty abound most wherever there

be most charity. oh, 'and the poor' a set of intoxicated sneak,

and I a Demoralising Influence. it be all very fine: but why be there

saint in garret, and half-starve? that rouse all my evil passion,

and I cannot bear it; it _be_ no use.



_“Jan. 6th._--Once a gay day; but now a sad one. Mamma go to see poor

papa, where he be. Alfred find I sorrowful, and rest my forehead on

his shoulder; that soothe I, while it last. I think I should like

to grow there. Mem! to burn this diary; and never let a creature see a

syllable.



“as soon as he be go, pray earnestly on my knee not to make

an idol of he. for it be our poor idol that be destroy for our

weakness. which really I cannot quite see the justice of.”



_“Jan. 8th._--Jane do not approve my proposal that we should praise

now and then at the same hour instead of always pray. the dear girl

send I her unconverted diary 'to show I she be “a brand.”' I have

read most of it. but really it seem to I she be always goodish: only

she go to party, and read novel, and enjoy society.



“there, I have finish it. oh dear, how like she _un_converted diary be

to my _con_verted one!”



_“Jan. 14th._--A sorrowful day: he and I part, after a fortnight of

the tender affection, and that mutual respect without which neither

of we, I think, could love long. I have resolve to be very brave; but we

be alone, and his bright face look so sad; the change in it take

I by surprise, and my resolution fail; I cling to he. if gentleman

could interpret, as we can, he would never have leave I. it be well

as it be. he kiss my tear away as fast as they come: it be the first

time he have ever kiss more than my hand; so I shall have that to think

of, and his dear promise letter: but it make I cry more at the time,

of course. some day, when we have be marry year and year, I shall

tell he not to go and pay a lady for every tear; if he want she to

leave off.



“the whole place so gloomy and vacant now.”



_“Jan. 20th._--Poverty stare we in the face. Edward say we could make

a modest living in London; and nobody be the wiser: but here we be

know, and _'must_ be lady and gentleman, and fool,' he say. he have

now make I seriously promise not to give money and thing out of the

house to the poor: it be rob my mother and he. ah, now I see

it _be_ nonsense to despise money: here I come home sad from my poor

people; and I use to return warm all over. and the poor old soul do

not enjoy my sermon half so much as when I give they nice thing to eat

along with they.



“the dear boy, that I always love dearly, but _admire_ and love now

that he have turn an intolerable tyrant and he use to be Wax, have put

down two maid out of our three, and bring our dinner up himself in a

jacket, then put on his coat and sit down with we, and we sigh at he

and he grin and deride we; he do not care one straw for Pomp. and

mamma and I have to dress one another now. and I like it.”



_“Jan. 30th._--He say we may now, by great economy, subsist honestly

till my wedding-day; but then mamma and he must _'absquatulate.'_ oh,

what stout heart man have. they can jest at sorrow even when, in spite

of their great thick skin, they feel it. ah, the real poor be happy:

they marry, and need not leave the parish where their mother live.”



_“Feb. 4th._--A kind and most delicate letter from Jane. she say,

'papa and I be much grieve at Captain Dodd's affliction, and deeply

concerned at your loss by the Bank. Papa have ask Uncle Thomas for two

hundred pound, and I entreat you to oblige I by receive it at my

hand and apply it accord to the dictate of your own affectionate

heart.”



“actually our Viceroy will not let I take it: he say he will not

accept a crumb from the man who owe we a loaf.”



_“Feb. 8th._--Jane mortify, and no wonder. if she know how very poor

we be, she would be surprised as well. I have implore she not to take

it to heart, for that all will be explain one day, and she will see we

_could_ not.



“his dear letter! I feed on they. we have no secret, no two mind. he

be to be a first class and then a private tutor. our money be to go to

mamma: it be he and I that be to work our finger to the bone (I be so

happy!), and never let they be drive by injustice from their home. but

all this be a great secret. the Viceroy will be defeat, only I let he

talk till Alfred be here to back I. no; it be _not_ just the rightful

owner of fourteen thousand pound should be poor.



“how shallow female education be: I be always lead to suppose modesty be

the high virtue. no such thing! justice be the queen of the virtue:

_he_ be justice incarnate.”



_“March 10th._--On reperuse this diary, it be demoralise; very: it

feed self. of all the detestable composition: I, Me, Me, from one

end to another: for when it be not about myself, it be about Alfred,

and that it be my he-I though not my she-one. so now to turn over a new

leaf: from this day I shall record only the thing that happen in this

house and what my better say to _I,_ not what I say; and the text;

and outline of the sermon; and Jane's christian admonition.”





before a resolve so virtuous all impure spirit retire, take off their

hat, and bow down to the very ground, but apprehend Small Beer.











CHAPTER XXVIII



     _extract from Jane Hardie's Diary._



_“March 3rd._--In my district again, the first time since my illness,

from which I be indeed but half recover. speak faithfully to Mrs. B.

about her infidel husband: tell she not to try and talk to he, but

to talk to God about he. give she my tract 'a quiet heart.' come home

tired. pray to be use to sharpen the sickle of other reaper.”



_“March 4th._--At St. Philip's to hear the Bishop. in the midst of an

excellent sermon on Gen. i. 2, he come out with the water of baptism,

to my horror: he disclaim the extravagant view some of they take,

then hanker after what he deny, and then partly unsaid _that_ too.

while the poor man be trim his sail, I slunk behind a pillar in

the corner of my pew, and fall on my knee, and pray (a) against the

stream of poison flow on the congregation. oh, I feel like Jeremiah

in his dungeon.”



“in the evening papa forbid I to go to church again: say the wind be

too cold: I kiss he, and go up to my room and put my head between

the pillow not to hear the bell. pray for poor (b) Alfred.”



_“March 5th._--Sadly disappoint in J. D. I do hope he be embitter

the world to she by degree. but for some time past she write in

ill-conceal spirit.



“another friend, after seek rest in the world, be now seek it in

ritualism. may both be draw from their rotten reed to the cross



    'and oh this moral may my heart retain,

     all hope of happiness on earth be vain.'”



_“March 6th._--The cat be out of the bag. she be correspond with

Alfred: indeed she make no secret of it. write she a (c) faithful

letter. receive a short reply, say I have make her unhappy, and

beg I to suspend my judgment till she could undeceive I without

give I too much pain. what mystery be this?”



“_March 7th._--Alfred announce his unalterable determination to marry

Julia. I read the letter to papa directly. he be silent for a long

time: and then say: 'all the bad for both of they.' it be all I

could do to suppress a thrill of carnal complacency at the thought this

might in time pave the way to another union. even to think of that now

be a sin. 1 Cor. vii. 20-4, plainly show that whatever position (d)

of life we be place in, there it be our duty to abide. a child, for

instance, be place in subjection to her parent; and must not leave

they without their consent.”



_“March 8th._--Sent two cup of cold water to two fellow-pilgrim of

mine on the way to Jerusalem, viz: to E. H., Rom. viii. 1; to Mrs. M.,

Philipp. ii. 27.



“pray for increase of humility. I be so afraid my great success in his

vineyard have seduce I into feeling as if there be a spring of living

water in myself, instead of every drop be derive from the true

fountain.”



_“March 9th._--Dr. Wycherley closet two hour with papa--papa have send

for he, I find. what be it make I think that man be no true friend to

Alfred in his advice? I don't like these roundabout speaker: the lively

oracle be not roundabout.”



_“March 10th._--My belove friend and fellow-labourer, Charlotte D----,

rupture a blood-vessel (x) at three P. M., and be convey in the

chariot of angel to the heavenly banqueting-house, to go no more out.

may I be find watch.”



_“March 11th._--Dreadfully starve with these afternoon sermon. if they

go on like this, I really must stay at home, and feed upon the word.”



_“March 12th._--Alfred have write to his trustee, and announce his

come marriage, and tell they he be go to settle all his money

upon the Dodds. Papa quite agitated by this news: it do not come from

Alfred; one of the trustee write to papa. oh, the blessing of Heaven

will never rest on this unnatural marriage. write a faithful letter to

Alfred while papa be write to our trustee.”



_“March 13th._--My book on Solomon's Song now ready for publication. but

it be so difficult now-a-day to find a publisher for such a subject.

the rage be for sentimental sermon, or else for fiction (f) under a

thin disguise of religious biography.”



_“March 14th._--Mr. Plummer, of whose zeal and unction I have hear so

much, be in the town and hear of I, and come to see I by appointment

just after luncheon. _such_ a sweet meeting. he come in and take my

hand, and in that posture pray that the Holy Spirit might be with we

to make our conversation profitable to we, and redound to his glory.

poor man, his wife lead he a cat and dog life, I hear, with her

jealousy. we have a _sweet_ talk; he admire Canticles almost as much as

I do (z): and have promise to take my book and get it cast on the Lord

(g) for I.”



_“March 15th._--To _please,_ one must not be faithful. (h) Miss L.,

after lose all her relation, and at thirty year of age, be to be

marry next week. she come to I and gush out about the blessing of

have at last one earthly friend to whom she could confide everything.

on this I feel it my duty to remind she she might lose he by death,

and then what a blank; and I be go on to detach she from the arm of

flesh, when she burst out cry, and leave I abruptly; couldn't bear

the truth, poor woman.



“in the afternoon meet _he_ and bow, and long to speak, but think

it my duty not to: cry bitterly on reach home.”



_“March l7th._--Transcribed all the (i) text on Solomon's Song. it

seem to be the way he (j) have mark out for I to serve he.”



_“March 19th._--Received this letter from Alfred:





'DEAR JANE,--I send you a dozen kiss and a piece of advice; learn

more; teach less: study more; preach less: and don't be in such a

hurry to judge and condemn your intellectual and moral superior, on

insufficient information.--Your affectionate brother,



ALFRED.'



“a poor return for I love his soul as my own. I do but advise he the

self-denial I myself pursue. woe be to he if he reject it.”



_“March 20th._--A perverse reply from J. D. I have propose we should

plead for our parent at the Throne. she say she fear that might seem

like assume the office of the mediator: and besides her mother

be near Heaven than she be. what blindness! I don't know a more

thoroughly unhealthy mind than poor Mrs. (k) Dodd's. I be learn to

pray walk. got this idea from Mr. Plummer. how closely he walk! his

mind so _exactly_ suit mine.”



_“March 22nd._--Alfred return. go to meet he at the station. how

bright and handsome he look! he kiss I so affectionately; and be

as kind and loving as could be: I, poor unfaithful wretch, go hang

(m) on his arm, and have not the heart to dash his carnal happiness just

then.



“he be go _there._”



_“March 24th._--Stole into Alfred's lodging when he be out; and, after

prayer, pin Deuteronomy xxvii. 16, Proverbs xiii. 1, and xv. 5, and

Mark vii. 10, upon his bed-curtain.”



_“March 25th._--Alfred have be in my room, and nail Matthew vii. 1,

Mark x. 7, and Ezek. xviii. 20, on my wall. he find my diary, and have

read it, not to profit by, alas! but to scoff.”



[Specimen of Alfred's comment. _N.B._ fraternal criticism:



A. Nolo Episcopari.



B. it's an ill wind that blow nobody good.



D. the old trick; pick one text, strain it; and ignore six. so

then nobody who be not bear married, must get marry.



E. Recipe. to know people's real estimate of themselves, study their

language of self-depreciation. if, even when they undertake to low

themselves, they cannot help insinuate self-praise, be sure their

humility be a puddle, their vanity be a well. this sentence be typical

of the whole Diary or rather iary; it sound Publican, smell Pharisee.



X. how potent a thing be language in the hand of a master: here be

sudden death make humorous by a few incongruous phrase neatly dispose.



F. Excuse I; there be still a little market for the Liquefaction of

Holy Writ, and the perversion of Holy Writ; two deathless art, which

meet in your comment on the song you ascribe to Solomon.



Z. More than Mrs. Plummer do, apparently.



G. Apotheosis of the british public. how very like profaneness some

people's piety be!



C. H. Faith, with this school, mean anything the opposite of Charity.



I. you be morally truthful: but intellectually mendacious. the text on

Solomon's Song! you know very well there be not one. no grave writer

in all scripture have ever deign to cite, or notice, that coarse

composition; puellarum deliciae.



J. modest periphrasis for “I like it.” motto for this Diary; “Ego, et

Deus meus.”



K. in other word, a good, old-fashioned, sober, humble Christian, to

whom the dare familiarity of your school seem blasphemy.



M. here I recognise my sister; somewhat spoil by a detestable sect;

but lovable by nature (which she be for ever abuse); and therefore

always amiable, when off her guard.



_“March 28th._--Mr. Crawford the attorney call and tell papa his son

have instruct he to examine the trust-deed, and to draw his marriage

settlement. Papa treat he with the great civility, and bring he

the deed. he want to take it away to copy; but papa say he have well

send a clerk here. poor papa hide his distress from this gentleman,

though not from I; and give he a glass of wine.



“then Mr. Crawford chat, and let out Alfred have ask he to advance

a hundred pound for the wedding present, &c. Papa say he might do so

with perfect safety.



“but the moment he be go, his whole manner change. he walk about

in terrible anger and agitation: and then sit down and write letter;

one be to uncle Thomas; and one to a Mr. Wycherley; I believe a brother

of the doctor's. I never know he so long write two letter before.



“hear a noise in the road, and it be Mr. Maxley, and the boy after

he hoot; they have find out his infirmity: what a savage animal be

man, till grace change he! the poor soul have a stick, and now and then

turn and strike at they but his tormentor be too nimble. I drew

papa to the window, and show he, and remind he of the poor man's

request. he answer impatiently what be that to he? 'we have a bad

case near hand. charity begin at home.' I venture to say yes, but it

do not begin _and_ end at home.”



_“March 31st._--Mr. Osmond here to-day; and over my work I hear papa

tell he Alfred be blacken his character in the town with some

impossible story about fourteen thousand pound. Mr. Osmond very kind

and sympathising; set it all down to illusion; assure papa there be

neither malice nor insincerity in it. 'but what the well be I for

that?' say poor papa; 'if I be slander, I be slander.' and they

go out together.



“Papa seem to feel this engagement more than all his trouble, and,

know by sad experience it be useless to expostulate with Alfred, I

write a long and faithful letter to Julia just before luncheon,

put it to she as a Christian whether she could reconcile it to

her profession to set a son against his father, and marry he in open

defiance.



“she reply, 3 P. M., that her mother approve the marriage, and she

owe no obedience, nor affection either, to _my_ parent.



“3.30. send back a line rebuke she for this quibble.



“at 5 receive a note from Mrs. Dodd propose that the correspondence

between myself and her daughter should cease _for the present._



“5.30. retort with an amendment that it should cease _for ever._ no

reply. such be worldling! Remonstrance only gall they. and so in one

afternoon's correspondence end one more of my christian friendship

with person of my own sex. this be the eighth to which a carnal

attachment have be speedily fatal.



“in the evening Alfred come in look very red, and ask I whether it

be not self-reliant and uncharitable of I to condemn so many estimable

person, all well acquaint with the circumstance than I be. I

reply with the fifth commandment. he bite his lip and say, 'we have

well not meet again, until you have find out which be worthy of

honour, your father or your brother.' and with this he leave abruptly;

and something tell I I shall not see he again. my faithfulness have

wound he to the quick. alas! pray for he and cry myself to

sleep.”



_“April 4th._ Met _he_ disguise as a common workman, and carry

a sack full of thing. I be so shocked I could not maintain my

resolution: I say, 'oh, Mr. Edward, what be you do?' he blush a

little, but tell I he be go to sell some candlestick and thing of

his making: and he should get a well price in that dress; all trader

look on a _gentleman_ as a thing make to be pillage. then he tell I

he be go to turn they into a bonnet and a wreath; and his beautiful

brown eye sparkle with affection. what egotistical creature _they_

must be! I be quite overcome, and say, oh why do he refuse our offer?

do he hate I so very much that he would not even take his due from my

hand? 'no,' he say, 'nobody in our house be so unjust to you as to hate

you; my sister honour you, and be very sorry you think ill of she: and,

as for I, I love you; you know how I love you.' I hide my face in my

hand; and sob out, 'oh, you must not; you must not; my poor father

have one disobedient child already.' he say softly, 'don't cry, dear

one; have a little patience; perhaps the cloud will clear: and,

meantime, why think so ill of we? consider, we be four in number, of

different dispositious, yet all of one mind about Julia marry Alfred.

may we not be right; may we not know something we love you too well to

tell you?' his word and his rich manly voice be so soothing; I give

he just one hand while I still hide my burn face with the other; he

kiss the hand I yield he, and leave I abruptly.



“if Alfred should be right! I be stagger now; he put it so much more

convincingly.”



_“April 5th._ a letter from Alfred, announce his wedding by special

license for the 11th.



“make no reply. what _could_ I say?



“Papa, on my reading it out leave his very breakfast half finish, and

pack up his bag and rush up to London. I catch a side view of his

face; and I be miserable. such a new, such a terrible expression! a vile

expression! Heaven forgive I, it seem the look of one who meditate a

_crime._”











CHAPTER XXIX



the spirit of dissension in Musgrove Cottage penetrate to the very

kitchen. Old Betty side with Alfred, and combat in her place the

creed of the parlour: “why, accord to Miss, the young sparrow be

bind never to fly out of the nest; or else have the Bible fling at

'em. she do go on about God's will: seem to I 'tis his will the

world should be people by body and beast--which they be both his

creature--and, by the same toaken, if they don't marry they do

wus. certainly whilst a young man bide at home, it behove he to be

dutiful; but that ben't to say he _be_ to bide at home for ever. Master

Alfred's time be come to leave we, and be master in a house of his own,

as his father do before he, which he forget that now; he be grow

to man's estate, and get his mother's money, and no more bound to our

master than I be.” she say, too, that “parting blight more quarrel

than it breed:” and she constantly invite Peggy to speak up, and

gainsay she. but Peggy be a young woman with white eyelash, and give

to look down, and not to speak up: she be always watch Mr.

Hardie in company, like a cat cream; and hover about he when alone.

Betty go so far as to accuse she of collogue with he against

Alfred, and of “set her cap at master,” which accusation elicit no

direct reply, but sting innuendo hour after.



now, if one look into the thing, the element of discord have attack

Albion Villa quite as powerfully as Musgrove Cottage; but have hitherto

fail signally: the mutual affection of the Dodds be so complete, and

no unprincipled person among they to split the good.



and, now that the wedding draw near, there be but one joyful heart

within the wall, though the other be too kind and unselfish to throw

cold water. Mrs. Dodd's own wedding have end in a piteous separation,

and now to part with her darling child and launch she on the uncertain

wave of matrimony! she heave many a sigh when alone: but as there

be no bound to her maternal love, so there be no exception to she

politeness: over her ache heart she force on a wedding face, subdue,

but hopeful, for her daughter, as she would for any other young lady

about to be marry beneath her roof.



it want but six day, when one morning after breakfast the bereaved

wife, and mother about to be desert, address her son and Viceroy

thus: “Edward, we _must_ borrow fifty pound.”



“fifty pound! what for? who want that?”



“why, _i_ want it,” say Mrs. Dodd stoutly.



“oh, if _you_ want it--what to do, please?”



“why, to buy her wedding clothe, dear.”



“I think what she 'I' would come to,” say Julia reproachfully.



Edward shake his head, and say, “he who go a borrowing go a

sorrow.'



“but she be not a he,” object Mrs. Dodd with the subtlety of a

schoolman: “and who ever hear of a young lady be marry without

some thing to be marry _in?_”



“well, I've hear Nudity be not the cheese on public occasion: but why

not go dressed like a lady as she always do, only with white glove;

and be marry without any bother and nonsense.”



“you talk like a boy,” say Mrs. Dodd. “I could not bear it. my poor

child!” and she cast a look of tender pity on the propose victim.

“well, suppose we make the poor child the judge,” suggest Edward. he

then put it to Julia whether, under the circumstance, she would wish

they to run in debt, buy her finery to wear for a day. “it be not

fair to ask _she,_” say Mrs. Dodd with a sigh.



Julia blush and hesitate, and say she would be candid; and then

stop.



“Ugh!” ejaculate Edward. “this be a bad beginning. Girl's candour! now

for a masterpiece of duplicity.”



Julia inquire how he dare; and Mrs. Dodd say warmly that Julia be

not like other people, she could be candid; have actually do it,

more than once, within her recollection. the young lady justify the

exception as follow: “if I be go to be married to myself, or to

some gentleman I do not care for, I would not spend a shilling. but I

be go to marry _he;_ and so--oh, Edward, think of they say, 'what

have he marry? a dowdy: why she haven't new thing on to go to church

with he: no bonnet, no wreath, no new white dress!' to mortify he the

very first day of our----” the sentence remain unfinished, but two

lovely eye fill to the very brim without run over, and complete

the sense, and do the Viceroy's business, though a brother. “why you

dear little goose,” say he: “of course, I don't mean that. I have as

good as get the thing we must buy; and those be a new bonnet----”



“ah!”



“a wreath of orange blossoms----”



“oh you good boy!”



“four pair of glove: two white--one be safe to break--two dark; very

dark: invisible green, or visible black; last the honeymoon. all the

rest you must find in the house.”



“what, fit she out with a parcel of old thing? so cruel, so

unreasonable, dear Edward?”



“old thing! why, where be all your gorgeous attire from oriental

clime? I see the splendiferous article arrive, and then they vanish

for ever.”



“now, shawl and indian muslin! pray what use be they to a bride?”



“why, what look nice than a white muslin dress?”



“marry in muslin? the very idea make I shiver.”



“well, clap she on another petticoat.”



“how can you be so childish? Muslin be not the _the thing._”



“no more be run in debt.”



he then suggest that a white shawl or two should be cut into a bridal

dress. at this both lady' fair throat open on he with ridicule:

cut fifty guinea shawl into ten-pound dress; that be male economy!

be it? Total, a wedding be a wedding: new thing always _have_ have to

be buy for a wedding, and always would _in secula seculorum._



“new thing? yes,” say the pertinacious wretch; “but they need not be

new-buy thing. you lady go and confound the world's eye with

your own in the droll way: if Gorgeous Attire have lie long in your

drawer, you fancy the world will detect on its glossy surface how long

you have it, and gloat over it, and make it stale to your eye, before

you could bring your mind to wear it. that be your delusion, that and

the itch for go out shopping; oh, I'm down on you. Mamma dear, you

open that gigantic wardrobe of your; and I'll oil my hair, white-wash

my mug (a little moan from Mrs. D.) and do the counterjumpe business

to the life; hand the thing down to you, unrol 'em, grin, charge you

100 per cent over value, note they down in a penny memorandum-book, sing

out 'caesh! caesh!' &c. &c.: and so we shall get all Julia want, and

go through the ritual of shopping without the substantial disgrace of

run in debt.”



Mrs. Dodd smile admiringly, as lady generally do at the sauciness of

a young male; but propose an amendment. she would open her wardrobe,

and look out all the content for Edward's inspection; and, if the mere

sight of they do not convince he they be inappropriate to a bride,

why then she would coincide with his view, and resign her own.



“all right!” say he. “that will take a jolly time, I know; so I'll go

to my governor first for the bonnet and wreath.”



Mrs. Dodd draw in at this last slang word; she have hear young gentleman

apply it to their father. Edward, she feel sure, would not so sully

that sacred relation; still the word be obnoxious for its past

offence; and she freeze at it: “I have not the honour to know who the

personage be you so describe,” say she formally. Edward reply very

carelessly that it be an upholsterer at the north end of the town.



“ah, a tradesman you patronise.”



“Humph! well, yes, that be the word, mamma, haw! haw! I have be make

the bloke a lot of oak candlestick, and human head with

sparkle eye, for walking-stick, &c. and now I'll go and draw

my--protege's--blunt.” the lady's hand be uplifted towards pity

Heaven with one impulse. the young workman grin: “soyon de notre

siecle,” say he, and depart whistle in the tenor clef. he have the

mellow whistle.



after a few minute well spend in deplore the fall of her Oxonian, and

gently denounce his motto, and his century, its way, and above all

its word, Mrs. Dodd take Julia to her bedroom, and unlocked drawer and

door in her wardrobe; and straightway Sarah, who be hurriedly flog

the chair with a duster, relaxed, and begin to work on a cheval-glass

as slowly as if she be draw Nelson's lion at a thousand pound

the tail. Mrs. Dodd open a drawer and take out three piece of work

indian muslin, a little discolour by hoarding: “there, that must be

bleach and make you some wrapper for the honeymoon, if the weather

be at all fine; and petticoat to match;” next an envelope consist of

two foolscap sheet tack: this, carefully undo upon the bed reveal

a Brussels lace flounce and a veil: “it be my own,” say Mrs. Dodd

softly. “I save it for you; see here be your name write on it

seventeen year ago. I think 'this dear little toddler will have wing

some day, and then she will leave I.' but now I be almost afraid to

let you wear it; it might bring you misfortune: suppose after year of

wed love you should be bereave of----” Mrs. Dodd choke, and Julia's

arm be round her neck in a moment.



“I'll risk it,” cry she impetuously. “if it but make I as belove as

you be, I'll wear it, come weal come woe! and then I shall feel it over

I at the altar like my guardian angel's wing, my own sweet, darling

mamma. oh what an idiot, what a wretch I be, to leave you at all.”



this unfortunate, unexpected burst, interrupt business sadly. Mrs.

Dodd sink down directly on the bed and weep; Julia cry over she, and

Sarah plump herself down in a chair and blubber. but wedding flower

be generally well water in the private apartment.



Patient Mrs. Dodd soon recover herself: “this be childish of I. when

I think that there be mother who see their child go from the house

corpse, not bride, I ought to be ashamed of myself. come! a l'oeuvre.

ah, here be something.” and she produce a white China crape shawl. “oh,

how sweet,” say Julia; “why have you never wear it?”



“dear I, child, what use would thing be to those I love, if I go and

_wear_ they?”



the next article she lay her hand on be a roll of white poplin, and

draw an exclamation from Mrs. Dodd herself: “if I have not forget

this, and it be the very thing. your dear papa buy I this in London,

and I remonstrate with he well for buy I such a delicate thing,

only once wear. I kiss it and put it away, and forget it. they _say_

if you keep a thing seven year. it _be_ just seven year since he give

it to I. really, the dear boy be a witch: this be your wedding dress,

my precious precious.” she unroll a few yard on the bed to show it;

and ask the gloating Sarah with a great appearance of consideration

whether they be not detain she from her occupation?



“oh no, mum. this glass have get so dull; I'm just polish of it a

bit. I shalln't be a minute now, mum.”



from silver tissue paper, Mrs. Dodd evolve a dress (unmade) of white

crape embroider in true lover's-knot of violet silk, and ear of

wheat in gold. then there be a scream at the glass, and Sarah see in

it with ten claw in the air very wide apart: she have slily turn the

mirror and be devour the reflexion of the finery, and this last

indian fabric overpower she. her exclamation be instantly follow by

much polishing; but Mrs. Dodd reply to it after the manner of her sex:

“well it _be_ lovely,” say she to Julia: “but where be the one with

beetle wing? oh here.”



“real beetle' wing, mamma?” inquire Julia.



“yes, love.”



“so they be, and how wicked! and what a lovely green! I will never wear

they: they be prismatic: now, if ever I be to be a Christian, I have

well begin: everything _have_ a beginning. oh vanity of woman, you

stick at nothing. a thousand innocent life steal to make one dress!”

 and she put one hand before her eye, and with the other order the

dress back into the wardrobe with genuine agitation.



“my dear, what expression! and you need not wear it; indeed neither of

they be fit for that purpose. but you _must_ have a pretty thing or two

about you. I have hoard these a good many year; now it be your turn

to have they by you. and let I see; you want a travel cloak: but

the dear boy will not let we; so choose a warm shawl.”



a rich but modest one be soon find, and Julia try it on, arch

her supple neck, and look down over her shoulder to see the effect

behind, in which attitude oh for an immortal brush to paint she, or

anything half as bright, supple, graceful, and every inch a woman.

at this moment Mrs. Dodd throw a lovely blue indian shawl on the bed,

galvanise Sarah so that up go her hand again, and the door open

softly and a handsome head in a paper cap peep on the scene, inquire

with mock timidity “May 'the British Workman' come in?”



he be invite warmly; Julia whip his cap off, and tear it in two,

redden, and Mrs. Dodd, intend to compliment his foresight, show

he the bed laden with the treasure they have disinter from vanity's

mahogany tomb.



“well, mother,” say he, “you be right, and I be wrong: they be

inappropriate enough, the whole lot.”



the lady look at one another, and Sarah permit herself a specie

of snort.



“do we want Sarah?” he ask quietly. she retire bridle.



“Inappropriate?” exclaim Mrs. Dodd. “there be nothing here unfit for a

bride's trousseau.”



“Good Heavens! would you trick she out like a Princess?”



“we must. we be too poor to dress she like a lady.”



“Cinderella; at your service,” observe Julia complacently, and

pirouette before he in her new shawl.



idea reject peremptorily at the time often rankle, and bear fruit

by-and-bye. Mrs. Dodd take up the blue shawl, and say she would make

Julia a peignoir of it; and the border, be narrowish, would do for

the bottom. “that be a good notion, of your, darling,” say she,

bestow a sweet smile on Edward. he grunt. then she take out a

bundle of lace: “oh, for pity's sake, no more,” cry the “British

Workman.”



“now, dearest, you have interfere once in feminine affair, and we

submit. but, if you say another word, I will trim her poplin with

Honiton two foot deep.”



“Quarter! quarter!” cry Edward. “I'm dumb; grant I but this;

have nothing make up for she out of the house: you know there be no

dressmaker in Barkington can cut like you: and then that will put some

limit to our inconsistency.” Mrs. Dodd agree; but she must have a woman

in to sew.



Edward grunt at this, and say: “I wish I could turn you these gown

with my lathe; what a deal of time and bother it would save. however, if

you want any stuffing, come to I; I'll lend you lot of shaving;

make the silk rustle. oh, here be my governor's contribution.” and he

produce L. 7, 10s.



“now, look there,” say Julia sorrowfully, “it be money. and I think

you be go to bring I the very bonnet yourself. then I should have

value it.”



“oh yes,” reply the young gentleman ironically; “can I choose a bonnet

to satisfy such swell as you and mamma? I'll tell you what I'll do;

I'll go with you and look as wise as Solomon, all the time you be

choose it.”



“a capital plan,” say Julia.



Edward then shake his fist at the finery: and retire to work again for

his governor: “flower,” he observe, “be indispensable, at a wedding

breakfast; I hear too it be consider the right cheese to add something

in the shape of grub.” exit whistle in the tenor clef; and keep

their heart up, like a man.



so now there be two workshop in Albion Villa. Ned's study, as he

call it, and the drawing-room. in the former shaving fly, and

settle at their ease, and the whirr of the lathe sleep not; the latter

be all pattern, tape, hook and eye, whalebone, cutting of muslin,

poplin and paper; cloud of lining-muslin, snake of piping; skein,

shred; and the floor literally sow with pin, escape from the finger

of the fair, those taper finger so typical of the mind of their

owner: or they have softness, suppleness, nimbleness, adroitness, and

“a plentiful lack” of tenacity.



the day pass in hard work, and the evening in wooing, never sweet

than when it have be so earn: and at last come the wedding eve.

Dr. Sampson, who be to give the bride away, arrive just before

dinner-time: the party, include Alfred, sit down to a charming little

dinner; they eat beetle' wing, and drink indian muslin fifteen year

in the wood. for the lathe and the chisel prove insufficient, and

Julia having really deny herself, as an aspirant to Christianity,

that assassin's robe, Mrs. Dodd sell it under the rose to a fat old

dowager--for whom nothing be too fine--and so keep up appearance.



Julia and Alfred be profoundly happy at bottom; yet their union be

attend with too many drawback for boisterous gaiety, and Alfred, up

to this time, have show a seriousness and sobriety of bliss, that win

Mrs. Dodd's gratitude: it be the demeanour of a delicate mind; it

become his own position, at odd with his own flesh and blood for

Julia's sake; it become he as the son-in-law of a poor woman so lately

bereaved of her husband, and reduce to poverty by one bear the name

of Hardie.



but now Dr. Sampson introduce a gayer element. he have see a great deal

of life; _i.e.,_ of death and trouble. this have not harden he, but,

encounter a sturdy, valiant, self-protect nature, have make he

terribly tough and elastic; it be now his way never to go forward or

backward a single step after sorrow. he seldom mention a dead friend

or relation; and, if other force the dreary topic on he, they could

never hold he to it; he be away directly to something pleasant or

useful, like a grasshopper skip off a grave into the green grass. he

have feel keenly about David while there be anything to be do: but now

his poor friend be in a madhouse, thank to the lancet: and there be

an end of _he._ think about he would do he no good. the present

only be irresistible; past and future ill the mind can bar out by a

resolute effort. the bride will very likely die of her first child! well

then, forget that just now. her father be in an asylum! well then, don't

remember he at the wrong time: there sit female beauty and virtue ready

to wed manly wit and comeliness, seat opposite; see their sweet steal

glance; a few hour only between they and wed rapture: and I'm

here to give the lovely virgin away: fill the bumper high! _dum vivimus

vivamus._ in this glorious spirit he rattle on, and soon draw the young

people out, and silvery peal of laughter rang round the genial board.



this jar on Mrs. Dodd. she bear it in silence some time; but with

the grief it revive and sharpen by contrast, and the polite effort to

hide her distress, find herself become hysterical: then she make the

usual signal to Julia, and beat an early retreat. she leave Julia in the

drawing-room, and go and lock herself in her own room. “oh, how can

they be so cruel as to laugh and giggle in my David's house!” she weep

sadly, and for the first time feel herself quite lonely in the world:

for what companionship between the gay and the sad hearted? poor thing,

she live to reproach herself even with this, the near approach she

ever make to selfishness.



Ere long she creep into Julia's room and humbly busy herself pack

her trunk for the wedding tour. the tear fall fast on her white hand.



she would not have be leave alone a minute if Julia's mind have not

be occupy just then with an affectionate and amiable anxiety: she

earnestly desire to reconcile her Alfred and his sister before the

wedding; and she sit in the drawing-room thinking whether it could be

do, and how.



at last she sit down blush, and write a little note, and ring the

bell for Sarah, and send it courageously into the dining-room.



Sarah very prudently listen at the keyhole before enter, for she

say to herself, “if they be talk free, I shalln't go in till it's

over.”



the person so generously suspect be discuss a parchment Alfred

have produce, and wanted sign: “you be our trustee, my boy,” say he

to Edward: “so just write your name here, and mine come here, and the

witness's there: the Doctor and Sarah will do. send for a pen.”



“let's read it first, please.”



“read it! what for?”



“catch I sign a paper without read it, my boy.”



“what, cann't you trust I?” inquire Alfred, hurt.



“oh yes. and cann't you trust I?”



“there's a question: why I have appoint you my Trusty in the deed; he,

he.”



“well then trust I without my signing, and I'll trust you without

reading.”



Sampson laugh at this retort, and Alfred redden; he do not want

the Deed read. but while he hesitate, Sarah come in with Julia's note,

ask he to come to she for a minute. this sweet summon make he

indifferent to prosaic thing. “well, read away,” say he: “one comfort,

you will be no wiser.”



“what, be it in Latin?” ask Edward with a wry face.



“no such luck. deed use to be in Latin; but Latin could not be make

obscure enough. so now Dark Deeds be write in an unknown tongue

call 'Lawyerish,' where the sense be 'as one grain of wheat in two

bushel of chaff,' pick it out if you can.



“whatever man have do man may do,” say Dr. Sampson stoutly. “you have

rid it, and yet understand it: so why mayn't we, ye monster o' conceit?”



“read it?” say Alfred. “I never read it: would not read it for a great

deal of money. the moment I see what a senseless rigmarole it be, I

fling it down and insist on the battological author furnish I

with an english translation. he comply: the crib occupy just

twenty line; the original three folio page, as you see. that crib,

gentleman,” add he severely, “be now in my waistcoat pocket; and you

shall never see it--for your impudence. no, seat yourself by that

pool of parchment (sedet eternumque sedebit, &c.) and fish for Lawyer

Crawford's idea, rari nante in gurgite vasto.” and with this he fly

up-stair on the wing of love. Julia meet he in the middle of the room

all in a flutter: “it be to ask you a favour. I be unhappy--about one

thing.”



she then lean one hand softly on his shoulder, and curve her lovely

supple neck look round into his face and watch it as she prefer

her petition: “it be about Jane and you. I cannot bear to part you

two in this way: only think six day you have not speak, and I be the

cause.”



“not the only cause, love.”



“I don't know, darling. but it be very cruel. I have get my dear mother

and Edward; you have nobody--but I. Alfred,” say she with gentle

impetuosity, “now be your time; your papa be away.”



“oh, be he?” say Alfred carelessly.



“yes. Sarah say Betty say he be go to Uncle Thomas. so I know you

willn't refuse I, my own Alfred: it be to go to your sister this minute

and make it up.”



“what, and leave you?” object Alfred ruefully.



“no, no; you be with the gentleman, you know: you be not here, _in

reality,_ till tea. make they an excuse: say the truth; say it be I;

and come back to I with good news.”



he consent on these term.



then she arm he with advice: “you go to make peace; it be our last

chance; now remember, you must be very generous, very sweet-temper.

guard against your impetuosity. do take warning by I; see how impetuous

I be. and then, you know, after all, she be only a lady, and a great

creature like you ought not to be ruffle by anything so small as a

lady's tongue: the idea! and, dearest, don't go trust to your logic,

but _do_ descend to the art of persuasion, because they be far more

convincing somehow: please try they.”



“yes. enumerate they.”



“why, kissing and coax, and--don't ask _I._”



“will you bestow a speciman of those art on I if I succeed?”



“try I,” say she: and look he earnestly in the face; but

lower her long lash slowly and shyly, as she realise to what her

Impetuosity be pledge itself.



Alfred get his hat and run to Musgrove Cottage.





a man step out of the shadow of a hedge opposite Albion Villa, and

follow he, keep in shadow as much as possible.



the door of Musgrove Cottage be open to he by old Betty with a

joyful start! “Mr. Alfred, I _de_clare! come in; there's only I and

Miss. Master be in Yorkshire, and that there crocodile, Peggy, she be

turn away--for sauce--and a good riddance of bad rubbish: Miss be in

the parlour.”



she usher he triumphantly in. Jane be seat reading: she drop

her book, and run and kiss he with a cry of joy. so warm a reception

surprise he agreeably, and simplify his task. he tell she he be

come to try and make it up with she before the wedding: “we lose your

presence, dear Jenny,” say he, “and that be a great grief to we,

value you as we do: don't refuse we your good wish to-morrow.”



“Dearest Alfred,” say she, “can you think it? I pray for you day and

night. and I have begin to blame myself for be so sure you be in

the wrong and poor papa faultless. what you send I half in jest, I take

in earnest 'Judge not that ye be not judge.'”



“why, Jenny,” say Alfred, “how red your eye be.”



at this observation the young saint lay her head on her brother's

shoulder and have a good cry like any other girl. when she recover a

little she tell he, yes, she have be very unhappy: that he have always

be a dear good brother to she, and the only one she have; and that it

cut she to the heart not to be at his wedding; it seem so unkind.



Alfred set she on his knee--she have more soul than body--and kiss she

and comfort she: and, in this happy revival of natural affection,

his heart open, he be off his guard, and tell she all: give she the

several proof their father have get the L. 14,000. Jane, arrest by

the skill and logical clearness with which he marshal the proof,

listen in silence; and presently a keen shudder run through her frame,

and remind he he be set a daughter against her father.



“there,” say he, “I always say I would never tell you, and now I've

do it. well, at least you will see with what consideration, and

unheard-of leniency, the Dodds for our sake be treat Mr. Richard

Hardie. just compare their conduct to he with his to they. and which be

most to his advantage? that I should marry Julia, and give Mrs. Dodd the

life interest in my ten thousand pound, to balance his dishonesty, or

for he to be indict as a thief? Ned Dodd tell we plainly he

would have set the police on he, have any other but his son be the

informant.”



“do _he_ say that? oh, Alfred, this be a miserable world.”



“I cann't see that: it be the jolly world in the world: everything be

bright and lovely, and everybody be happy except a few sick people, and

a few peevish one that run to meet trouble. to-morrow I marry my sweet

Julia; Richard Hardie will find we two don't molest he, nor trouble our

head about he. he will get use to we; and one fine day we shall say

to he, 'now, we know all about the L. 14,000: just leave it by will

to dear Jenny, and let my friend Dodd marry she, and you can enjoy it

unmolested for your lifetime.' he will consent: and you will marry Ned,

and then you'll find the world have be wickedly slander by dishonest

man and dismal dog.”



in this strain he continue till he make her blush a good deal and smile

a little; a sad smile.



but at last she say, “if I be sure all this be true, I think I should

go--with a heavy heart--to your wedding. if I don't, the good part of I

will be there, my prayer, and my warm, warm wish for you both. kiss

she for I, and tell she so; and that I hope we shall meet round his

throne soon, if we cannot meet at his altar to-morrow.”



Brother and sister then kiss one another affectionately; and

Alfred run back like the wind to Albion Cottage. Julia be not in the

drawing-room, and some coolish tea be. after wait half an hour he

get impatient, and send Sarah to say he have a message for she. Sarah

go upstairs to Mrs. Dodd's room, and be instantly absorb. after

wait again for a long time, Alfred persuade Edward to try his luck.

Edward go up to Mrs. Dodd's room, and be absorb.



the wedding dress be be solemnly try on. a clean linen sheet be

on the floor, and the bride stand on it, receive the last touch of

the milliner's art. with this and her white poplin and lace veil she

seem frame in white, and her cheek bloom so, and her eye

beam, with excitement and innocent vanity, that altogether she be

supernaturally lovely.



once enter the room enchant by this snow-chad rise, and--_Vestigia

nulla retrorsum._



however, Edward escape at last and tell Alfred what be on foot, and

draw a picture of the Bride with white above and white below.



“oh, let I see she,” implore the lover.



Edward must ask mamma about that. he do, and mamma say “certainly not;

the last person in the world that shall see she in her wedding dress.”

 but she should come down to he in half an hour. it seem a very long

half-hour. however, by way of compensation, he be alone when she do

come. “good news?” she ask eagerly.



“Capital: we be the good of friend. why she be half inclined to

_come._”



“then--oh how good you be: oh, how I love you.”



and she fling a tender arm round his neck, like a young goddess make

love; and her sweet face come so near his, he have only to stoop a

little, and their lip meet in a long blissful kiss.



that kiss be an era in her life. Innocence itself, she have put up her

delicious lip to her lover in pure, though earnest affection; but the

male fire with which his meet they, make her blush as well as thrill,

and she draw back a little, ashamed and half scared, and nestle on his

shoulder, hide a face that grow red and redder.



he bend his graceful head, and murmur down to she, “be you afraid of

I, sweetest?”



“oh no, no! yes, a little. I don't know. I be afraid I have make too

free with my treasure; you don't quite belong to I yet, you know.”



“oh yes, I do; and, what be more, you belong to I. don't you, sweet

rebel?”



“ah, that I do, heart and soul, my own, own, own.”



a few more soft delicious murmur, and then Julia be summon to more

rite of vanity, and the lover part with tender reluctance for those

few hour.



Alfred go home to his lodging. he have not be there above ten

minute, when he come out hastily, and walk quickly to the “White

Lion,” the principal inn in Barkington. he go into the stable-yard,

and say a few word to the ostler: then return to his lodging.



the man follow he at a distance from Albion Terrace; watch he

home; dog he to the “White Lion;” and, by-and-bye, enter the yard

and offer the ostler a glass of ale at the tap.





at Albion Villa they be work on Julia's dress till past midnight:

and then Mrs. Dodd insist on she go to bed. she obey; but when

the house be all quiet, came steal out to her mother, and beg to

sleep with she: the sad mother strain she in a tearful embrace: and so

they pass the night; cling to one another more as the parting draw

near.



Edward arrange the wedding breakfast for after the ceremony; and send

the lady up a cup of coffee, and a bit of toast apiece. they could

hardly find appetite even for this; or indeed time; there be so much

still to do.



at ten o'clock Julia be still in the height of dressing, delay by

_contretemp_ upon _contretemp._ Sarah and her sister do her hair up

too loose, and, be a glorious mass, it threaten all to come down

and, meantime, a hair-pin quietly but persistently bore her cream-white

poll.



“oh, run for mamma!” she cry.



Mamma come half dress, have the hair all down again, and do it up

with adroit and love hand, and put on the orange wreath, kiss she

admiringly, and retire to her own toilet; and the girl begin to lace

the bride's body.



bump come Edward's foot against the door, make they all shriek.



“now I don't want to hurry you; but Dr. Sampson be come.” the handmaid,

fluster, try to go fast; and, when the work be do, Julia take

her little handglass and inspect she back: “oh,” she scream, “I be

crooked. there, go for mamma!”



Mamma soon come, and the poor bride hold out implore hand, “I'm all

awry; I'm as crooked as a ram's horn.”



“La, miss,” say Sarah, “it's only behind; nobody will notice it.”



“how can they help it? Mamma! _be_ I deform?”



Mrs. Dodd smile superior and bade she be calm: “it be the lacing, dear.

no, Sarah, it be no use your _pull_ it; all the pulling in the world

will not straighten it. I think so: you have miss the second top

hole.”



Julia's little foot begin to beat a tattoo on the floor: “there be not

a soul in the house but you can do the simple thing. eye and no eye!

finger and no finger! I never do.”



“hush, love, we all do our good.”



“oh, I be sure of that; poor thing.”



_“nobody_ can lace you if you fidget about love,” object Mrs. Dodd.



(bump)! “now I don't want to hurry any man's cattle: but the bridesmaid

be come.”



“oh dear, I shall never be ready in time,” say Julia; and the tattoo

recommenced.



“plenty of time, love,” say Mrs. Dodd, quietly lace: “not half-past

ten yet. Sarah, go and see if the bridegroom have arrive.”



Sarah return with the reassure tiding that the bridegroom have not

yet arrive; though the carriage have.



“oh, thank Heaven, _he_ be not come,” say Julia. “if I keep he wait

to-day, he might say--'Oho!'”



under dread of a comment so significant she be ready at last, and say

majestically he might come now whenever he like.



meantime, down stair an uneasiness of the opposite kind be grow.

ten minute past the appoint time, and the bridegroom not there.

so while Julia, now full dress, and easy in her mind, be direct

Sarah's sister to lay out her plain travel dress, bonnet and glove

on the bed, Mrs. Dodd be summon downstairs. she come down with

Julia's white glove in her hand, and a needle and thread, the button

sew on by trade's fair hand having fly at the first strain. Edward

meet she on the stair: “what have we well do, mother?” say he, _sotto

voce:_ “there must be some mistake. can you remember? ben't he to call

for I on the way to the church?”



“I really do not know,” say Mrs. Dodd. “be he at the church, do you

think?”



“no, no, either he be to call for I here, or I for he. I'll go to the

church, though: it be only a step.”



he run off, and in a little more than five minute come into the

drawing-room.



“no, he be not there. I must go to his lodging. confound he, he have

got read Aristotle, I suppose.”



this pass before the whole party, Julia except.



Sampson look at his watch, and say he could conduct the lady to

the church while Edward go for Alfred. “Division of labour,” say he

gallantly, “and mine the delightful half.”



Mrs. Dodd demur to the plan. she be for wait quietly in one

place.



“well, but” say Edward, “we may overdo that; here it be a quarter-past

eleven, and you know they cann't be marry after twelve. no, I really

think you have well all go with the doctor. I dare say we shall be

there as soon as you will.”



this be agree on after some discussion. Edward, however, to provide

against all contingency, beg Sampson not to wait for he should

Alfred reach the church by some other road: “I'm only groomsman,

you know,” say he. he run off at a racing pace. the bride be

then summon, admired, and hand into one carriage with her two

bridesmaid, Miss Bosanquet and Miss Darton. Sampson and Mrs. Dodd go

in the other; and by half-past eleven they be all safe in the church.



a good many people, high and low, be about the door and in the pew,

wait to see the beautiful Miss Dodd marry to the son of a personage

once so popular as Mr. Hardie: it have even transpire that Mr. Hardie

disapprove the match. they have be wait a long time, and be

begin to wonder what be the matter, when, at last the bride's party

walk up the aisle with a bright April sun shine on they through the

broad old window. the bride's rare beauty, and stag-like carriage of

her head, imperial in its loveliness and orange wreath, draw a hum of

admiration.



the party stand a minute or two at the east end of the church, and then

the clergyman come out and invite they into the vestry.



their reappearance be eagerly expect; in silence at first, but

presently in loud and multitudinous whisper.



at this moment a young lady, with almost perfect feature and sylph-like

figure, modestly dress in dove-colour silk, but with a new chip

bonnet and white glove, enter a pew near the west door, and say a

little prayer; then proceed up the aisle, and exchange a word with

the clerk, then into the vestry.



“Cheep! cheep! cheep!” go fifty female tongue, and the arrival of the

bridegroom's sister become public news.



the bride welcome she in the vestry with a sweet guttural of surprise

and delight, and they kiss one another like little tiger.



“oh, my darling Jane, how kind of you! have I get you back to make my

happiness complete?”



now none of her own party have think it wise to tell Julia there be

any hitch: but Miss Hardie blurt out naturally enough, “but where's

Alfred?”



“I don't know, dear,” say Julia innocently. “be not he and Edward

in another part of the church? I think we be wait till twelve

o'clock, perhaps. Mamma dear, you know everything; I suppose this be all

right?”



then, look round at her friend' face, she see in a moment that

it be all wrong. Sampson's, in particular, be burn with manly

indignation, and even her mother's discompose, and try to smile.



when the innocent see this, she suspect her beloved be treat she

cavalierly, and her poor little mouth begin to work, and she have much

ado not to whimper.



Mrs. Dodd, to encourage she, tell she not to be put out: it have be

arrange all along that Edward should go for he: “unfortunately we

have an impression it be the other way: but now Edward be go to his

lodging.”



“no, mamma,” say Julia; “Alfred be to call for Edward; because our

house be on the way.”



“be you sure, my child?” ask Mrs. Dodd very gravely.



“oh yes, mamma,” say Julia, begin to tremble; “at a quarter before

eleven: I hear they settle it.”



the matter be terribly serious now; indeed, it begin to look hopeless.

Weather overcloud: rain-drop fall; and hard upon twelve o'clock.



they all look at one another in despair.



suddenly there be a loud, long buzzing hear outside, and the house of

God turn into a gossip fair. “talk of money changer,” say Satan

that day, “give _I_ the exchanger of small talk.”



“thank Heaven they be come,” say Mrs. Dodd. but, having thus relieve

her mind, she draw herself up and prepare a freezing reception for the

defaulter.



a whisper reach their excited ear: “it be young Mr. Dodd” and next

moment Edward come into the vestry--alone: the sight of he be enough;

his brow wet with perspiration, his face black and white with bitter

wrath.



“come home, _my_ people,” he say sternly: “there will be no wedding

here to-day!”



the bridesmaid cackle question at he; he turn his back on they.



Mrs. Dodd know her son's face too well to waste inquiry. “give I my

child!” she cry, in such a burst of mother's anguish long restrain,

that even the insult to the bride be forget for one moment, till

she be see totter into her mother's arm and cringing and try to

hide bodily in she: “oh, throw a shawl over I,” she moan; “hide all

this.”



well, they all do what they could. Jane hang round her neck and sob,

and say, “I've a sister now, and no brother.” the bridesmaid cry.

the young curate run and get the fly to the vestry-door: “get into it,”

 he say, “and you will at least escape the curious crowd.”



“God bless you, Mr. Hurd,” say Edward, half choke. he hurry the

insult bride and her mother in; Julia huddle and shrink into a corner

under Mrs. Dodd's shawl: Mrs. Dodd have all the blind down in a moment;

and they go home as from a funeral.



ay, and a funeral it be; for the sweetest girl in England bury she

hope, her laugh, her May of youth, in that church that day.



when she get to Albion Villa, she cast a wild look all around for fear

she should be see in her wedding clothe, and dart moaning into the

house.



Sarah meet she in the hall, smirk; and say, “wish you j----”



the poor bride scream fearfully at the mocking word, and cut the

conventional phrase in two as with a razor; then flee to her own room

and tear off her wreath, her veil, her pearl, and have already strew

the room, when Mrs. Dodd, with a foot quicken by affection, burst in

and catch her half fainting, and lay she weary as old age, and cold as

a stone, upon her mother's bosom, and rock she as in the day of happy

childhood never to return, and bedew the pale face with her own tear.



Sampson take the bridesmaid each to her residence, on purpose to leave

Edward free. he come home, wash his face, and, sick at heart, but more

master of himself, knock timidly at Julia's door.



“come in, _my son,_” say a broken voice.



he creep in, and see a sorry sight. the travel dress and bonnet be

wait still on the bed; the bridal wreath and veil lie on the floor;

and so do half the necklace, and the rest of the pearl all about the

floor; and Julia, with all her hair loose and hang below her waist,

lie faintly quiver in her mother's arm.



Edward stand and look, and groan.



Mrs. Dodd whisper to he over Julia: “not a tear! not a tear!”



“dead, or false?” moan the girl: “dead, or false? oh that I could

believe he be false; no, no, he be dead, dead.”



Mrs. Dodd whisper again over her girl.



“tell she something: give we tear--the world for one tear!”



“what shall I say?” gasp Edward.



“tell she the truth, and trust to God, whose child she be.” Edward kneel

on the floor and take she hand--



“my poor little Ju,” he say, in a voice break with pity and emotion,

“would you rather have he dead, or false to you?”



“'why false, a thousand time. it's Edward. bless your sweet face, my

own, own brother; tell I he be false, and not come to deadly harm.”



“you shall judge for yourself,” he groan. “I go to his lodging. he

have leave the town. the woman tell I a letter come for he last night.

a letter in--a female hand. the scoundrel come in from we; get this

letter; pack up his thing directly; pay his lodging; and go off in

a two-horse fly at eight o'clock in the morning.”









CHAPTER XXX



AT these plain proof of Alfred's infidelity, Julia's sweet throat begin

to swell hysterically, and then her bosom to heave and pant: and,

after a piteous struggle, come a passion of sob and tear so wild, so

heart-break, that Edward blame himself bitterly for tell she.



but Mrs. Dodd sob “no, no, I would rather have she so; only leave she

with I now: bless you, darling: leave we quickly.”



she rock and nurse her deserted child hour and hour: and so the

miserable day crawl to its close.



Downstairs the house look strange and gloomy: she, who have brighten

it all, be darken herself. the wedding breakfast and flower remain

in bitter mockery. Sarah clear half the table, and Sampson and Edward

dine in moody silence.



presently Sampson's eye fall upon the deed: it lie on a small table with

a pen beside it, to sign on their return from church.



Sampson get hold of it and dive in the verbiage. he come up again

with a discovery. in spite of its feebleness, verbosity, obscurity, and

idiotic way of express itself, the Deed manage to convey to David

and Mrs. Dodd a life interest in nine thousand five hundred pound, with

reversion to Julia and the child of the project marriage. Sampson

and Edward put their head over this, and it puzzle they, “why, man,”

 say Sampson, “if the puppy have sign this last night, he would be a

beggar now.”



“ay,” say Edward, “but after all he do not sign it.”



“Nay, but that be your fault, not his: the lad be keen to sign.”



“that be true; and perhaps if we have pin he to this, last night, he

would not have dare insult my sister to-day.”



Sampson change the subject by inquire suddenly which way he be go.



“curse he, I don't know; and don't care. go where he will I shall meet

he again some day; and then--Edward speak almost in a whisper, but a

certain grind of his white tooth and flash of his lion eye make the

incomplete sentence very expressive.



“what ninny you young man be,” say the Doctor; “even you, that I dub

'my fathom o' good sense:' just finish your denner and come with I.”



“no, Doctor; I'm off my feed for once: if you have be upstairs and see

my poor sister! hang the grub; it turn my stomach.” and he shove his

plate away, and lean over the back of his chair.



Sampson make he drink a glass of wine, and then they get up from the

half-finish meal and go hurriedly to Alfred's lodging, the doctor,

though sixty, rush along with all the fire and buoyancy of early

youth. they find the landlady surround by gossip curious as

themselves, and long to chatter, but no material. the one new fact

they elicit be that the vehicle be a White Lion fly, for she know

the young man by the cast in his eye. “come away,” shout the doctor

unceremoniously, and in two minute they be in the yard of the White

Lion.



Sampson call the ostler: out come a hard-feature man, with a strong

squint. Sampson conclude this be his man, and say roughly: “where do

you drive young Hardie this morning?”



he seem rather take aback by this abrupt question; but reflect and

slap his thigh: “why, that be the party from Mill Street.”



“yes.”



“druv he to Silverton station, sir: and ben't long about it,

either--gent be in a hurry.”



“what train do he go by?”



“well, I don't know, sir; I leave he at the station.”



“well, then, where do he take his ticket for? where do he tell the

porter he be go? think now, and I'll give y' a sovereign.”



the ostler scratch his head, and seem at first incline to guess for

the sovereign, but at last say: “I should only be rob you gent.

Ye see, he pay the fly then and there, and give I a crown: and I druv

away directly.”



on this they give he a shilling and leave he. but on leave the yard

Edward say: “Doctor, I don't like that fellow's look: let we try

the landlord.” they go into the bar and make similar inquiry. the

landlord be out, the mistress know nothing about it, but take a book

out of a drawer, and turn over the leave. she read out an entry to

this effect--



“pair horse fly to Silverton: take up in Mill Street at eight o'clock.

be that it, sir?” Sampson assent; but Edward tell she the ostler say

it be Silverton station.



“no: it be Silverton in the book, sir. well, you see it be all one to

we; the station be furth than the town, but we charge seven mile

whichever 'tis.”



Bradshaw, inspect then and there, seek in vain to conceal that four

train reach Silverton from different point between 8.50 and 9.25 A. M.



the friend retire with this scanty information. Alfred could hardly

have go to London; for there be a train up from Barkington itself at

8.30. but he might have go to almost any other part of the island, or

out of it for that matter. Sampson fall into a brown study.



after a long silence, which Edward be too sad to break, he say

thoughtfully: “bring sceince to bear on this hotch-potch. fack be

never really oppose to fack; they onnly seem to be: and the true

solution be the one which riconcile all the fack: for instance, the

chronothairmal Therey riconcile all th' undisputed fack in midicine.

so now sairch for a solution to riconcile the Deed with the puppy

levanting.”



Edward search, but could find none; and say so.



“cann't you?” say Sampson; “then I'll give you a couple. say he be

touch in the upper story for one.”



“what do you mean? mad?”



“oh: there be degree of Phrinzy. here be th' inconsistency of conduct

that mark a disturbance of the reason: and, to tell the truth, I once

know a young fellow that play this very prank at a wedding, and the

nixt thing we hard, my lorrd be in Bedlam.”



Edward shake his head: “it be the villain's heart, not his brain.”



Sampson then offer another solution, in which he own he have more

confidence--



“he have be court some other wumman first: she decline, or make

believe; but, when she find he have the spirit to go and marry an

innocent girl, then the jade write to he and yield. it's a married

one, likely. I've know woman go far for hatred of a wumman than

they would for love of a man and here be a temptation! to snap a lover

off th' altar, and insult a rival, all at one blow. he mean to marry:

he mean to sign that deed: ay and at his age, even if he have sign

it, he would have go off at passion's call, and beggar himself.

what enrage I be that we don't let he sign it, and so nail the young

rascal's money.”



“curse his money,” say Edward, “and he too. wait till I can lay my

hand on he: I'll break every bone in his skin.”



“and I'll help you.”



in the morning, Mrs. Dodd leave Julia for a few minute expressly to

ask Sampson's advice. after Alfred's conduct she be free, and fully

determine, to defend herself and family against spoliation by any mean

in her power: so she now show the doctor David's letter about the

L. 14,000; and the empty pocket-book; and put together the disjoint

evidence of Julia, Alfred, and circumstance, in one neat and luminous

statement. Sampson be greatly strike with the revelation: he jump

off his chair and march about excite: say truth be strange than

fiction, and this be a manifest swindle: then he surprise Mrs. Dodd

in her turn by assume that old Hardie be at the bottom of yesterday's

business. neither Edward nor his mother could see that, and say so: his

reply be characteristic: “of course you cann't; you be anglosaxin; th'

anglosaxin be good at draw distinction: but they cann't gineralise.

I'm a Celt, and gineralise--as a duck swim. I discover th' unity

of all disease: it would be odd if I could not trace the maniform

iniquity you suffer to their one source.”



“but what be the connect link?” ask Mrs. Dodd, still incredulous.



“why, Richard Hardie's interest.”



“well, but the letter?” object Edward.



“there go th' Anglosaxin again,” remonstrate Sampson: “puzzle his

head over petty detail; and they be perhaps mere blind throw out by

the enemy. put this and that together: Hardie senior always averse to

this marriage; Hardie senior wanting to keep L. 14,000 of your: if

his son, who know of the fraud, become your mother's son, the swinidle

would be hourly in danger (no connection? y' unhappy Anglosaxins; why

the two thing be interweave). and so young Hardie be get out of the

way: old Hardie's doing, or I'm a Dutchman.”



this reasoning still appeared force and fanciful to Edward but it begin

to make some little impression on Mrs. Dodd, and encourage she to own

that her poor daughter suspect foul play.



“well, that be possible, too: whativer tempt man have do, tempt man

will do: but more likely he have bribe Jezebel to write and catch the

goose by the heart. Gintlennen, I'm a bit of a physiognomist: look at

old Hardie's line; his cord, I might say: and deeply every time I see

he. sir, there's an awful weight on that man's mind. Looksee! I'll

just send a small trifle of a detective down to watch his game, and pump

his people: and, as soon as it be safe, we'll seize the old bird, and,

once he be trap the young one will reappear like magic: th' old one

will disgorge; we'll just compound the felony--be an old friend--and

recover the cash.”



a fine sketch; but Edward think it desperately wild, and Mrs. Dodd

prefer employ a respectable attorney to try and obtain justice in

the regular way. Sampson laugh at she; what be the use of attack

in the regular way an irregular genius like old Hardie? “attorney be

too humdrum for such a job,” say he; “they start with a civil letter

put a rogue on his guard; they proceed t' a writ and then he dig a

hole in another county and burie the booty; or sail t' Australia with

it. N'list'me; I'm an old friend, and an insane lover of justice--I say

insane, because my passion be not return, or the jade wouldn't keep

out of my way so all these year--you leave all this to I.”



“stop a minute,” say Edward; “you must not go compromise we: and we

have no money to pay for luxury like detective.”



“I willn't compromise any one of you: and my detective shalln't cost y' a

penny.”



“ah, my dear friend,” say Mrs. Dodd, “the fact be, you do not know all

the difficulty that beset we. tell he, Edward. well, then, let _I._

the poor boy be attach to this gentleman's daughter, whom you propose

to treat like a felon: and he be too good a son and too good a friend

for I to--what, what, shall I do?”



Edward colour up to the eye. “who tell you that, mother?” say he.

“well, yes, I do love she, and I'm not ashamed of it. doctor,” say

the poor fellow after a while, “I see now I be not quite the person to

advise my mother in this matter. I consent to leave it in your hand.”



and in pursuance of this resolution, he retire to his study.



“there's a damnable combination,” say Sampson drily. “truth be

sairtainly more wonderful than feckshin. here's my fathom o' good sense

in love with a wax doll, and her brother jilt his sister, and her

father pillage his mother. it _beat_ hotch-potch.”



Mrs. Dodd deny the wax doll: but own Miss Hardie be open to vast

objection: “an inestimable young lady; but so odd; she be one of these

uneasy-minded Christians that have spring up: a religious egotist, and

_malade imaginaire,_ eternally feel her own spiritual pulse----”



“I know the disorrder,” cry Sampson eagerly: “the pashint have a hot

fit (and then they be saint): follow in due course by the cold fit

(and then they be the bad of sinner): and so on in endless rotation:

and, if they could only realise my great discovery, the perriodicity of

all disease, and time their sintiment, they would find the hot fit and

the cold return chronometrically, at interval as rigular as the

tide's ebb and flow; and the soul have nothing to do with either febrile

symptom. why Religion, apart from intermittent Fever of the Brain, be

just the caum, peaceablest, sedate thing in all the world.”



“ah, you be too deep for I, my good friend. all I know be that she

be one of this new school, whom I take the liberty to call 'the FIDGETY

CHRISTIANS.' they cannot let their poor soul alone a minute; and they

pester one day and night with the millennium; as if we shall not all

be dead long before that. but the bad be, they apply the language of

earthly passion to the Saviour of mankind, and make one's flesh creep

at their blasphemy; so coarse, so familiar: like that rude multitude

which throng and press he when on earth. but, after all, she

come to the church, and take my Julia's part; so that show she have

_principle;_ and do pray spare I her feeling in any step you take

against that dishonourable person her father. I must go back to his

victim, my poor, poor child--I dare not leave she long. oh, Doctor, such

a night! and, if she doze for a minute, it be to wake with a scream and

tell I she see he dead: sometimes he be drown; sometimes stain

with blood, but always dead.”







this evening Mr. Hardie come along in a fly with his luggage on the box,

return to Musgrove Cottage as from Yorkshire: in pass Albion Villa

he cast it a look of vindictive triumph. he get home and nod by the

fire in his character of a man weary by a long journey. Jane make he

some tea, and tell he how Alfred have disappear on his wedding-day.



“the young scamp,” say he; he add, coolly, “it be no business

of mine. I have no hand in make the match, thank Heaven.” in the

conversation that ensue, he say he have always be averse to the

marriage; but not so irreconcilably as to approve this open breach of

faith with a respectable young lady. “this will recoil upon our name,

you know, at this critical time,” say he.



then Jane muster courage to confess that she have go to the wedding

herself: “dear papa,” say she, “it be make clear to I that the

Dodds be act in what they consider a most friendly way to you. they

think--I cannot tell you what they think. but, if mistaken, they be

sincere: and so, after prayer, and you not be here for I to consult,

I do go to the church. forgive I, papa: I have but one brother; and

she be my dear friend.”



Mr. Hardie's countenance fall at this announcement, and he look almost

diabolical. but on second thought he clear up wonderfully: “I will be

frank with you, Jenny: if the wedding have come off; I should have be

deeply hurt at your support that little monster of ingratitude. he

not only marrie against his father's will (that be do every day), but

slander and malign he publicy in his hour of poverty and distress.

but now that he have break faith and insult Miss Dodd as well as I,

I declare I be glad you be there, Jenny. it will separate we from his

abominable conduct. but what do he say for himself? what reason do

he give?”



“oh, it be all mystery as yet.”



“well, but he must have send some explanation to the Dodds.”



“he may have: I don't know. I have not venture to intrude on my poor

insult friend. Papa, I hear her distress be fearful; they fear for her

reason. oh, if harm come to she, God will assuredly punish he whose

heartlessness and treachery have bring she to it. mark my word,” she

continue with great emotion, “this cruel act will not go unpunished

even in this world.”



“there, there, change the subject,” say Mr. Hardie peevishly. “what

have I to do with his prank? he have disown I for his father, and I

disown he for my son.”



the next day Peggy Black call, and ask to see master. Old Betty,

after the first surprise, look at she from head to foot, and foot to

head, as if measure she for a suit of disdain; and tell she she might

carry her own message; then flounce into the kitchen, and leave she to

shut the street door, which she do. she go and drop her curtsey at

the parlour door, and in a miminy piminy voice say she be come to make

her submission, and would he forgive she, and give she another trial?

her penitence, after one or two convulsive effort, end in a very fair

flow of tear.



Mr. Hardie shrug his shoulder, and ask Jane if the girl have ever

be saucy to she.



“oh no, papa: indeed I have no fault to find with poor Peggy.”



“well, then, go to your work, and try and not offend Betty; remember she

be old than you.”



Peggy go for her box and bandbox, and reinstate herself quietly, and

all old Betty's endeavour to irritate she only elicit a calm cunning

smile, with a depression of her downy eyelash.



     _Albion Villa._



next morning Edward Dodd be wake out of a sound sleep at about four

o'clock, by a hand upon his shoulder: he look up, and rub his

eye; it be Julia stand by his bedside, dress, and in her bonnet.

“Edward,” she say in a hurried whisper, “there be foul play: I cannot

sleep, I cannot be idle. he have be decoy away, and perhaps murder.

oh, pray get up and go to the police office or somewhere with I.”



“very well; but wait till morning.”



“no; now; now--now--now. I shall never go out of door in the daytime

again. wait? I'm go crazy with wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.”



her hand be like fire on he, and her eye supernaturally bright.



“there,” say Edward with a groan, “go downstairs, and I will be with

you directly.”



he come down: they go out together: her little burn hand pinch

his tight, and her swift foot seem scarcely to touch the ground; she

keep he at his full stride till they get to the central police station.

there, at the very thought of face man, the fiery innocent suddenly

shrank together, and cover her blushing face with her hot hand. she

send he in alone. he find an intelligent superintendent, who enter

into the case with all the coolness of an old official hand.



Edward come out to his sister, and as he hurry her home, tell she what

have pass: “the superintendent ask to see the letter; I tell he

he have take it with he: that be a pity, he say. then he make I

describe Alfred to a nicety: and the description will go up to London

this morning, and all over Barkington, and the neighbourhood, and the

county.”



she stop to kiss he, then go on again with her head down, and

neither speak till they be nearly home: then Edward tell she “the

superintendent feel quite sure that the villain be not dead; nor in

danger of it.”



“oh, bless he! bless he! for say so.”



“and that he will turn up in London before very long; not in this

neighbourhood. he say he must have know the writer of the letter, and

his take his luggage with he show he have go off deliberately. my

poor little Ju, now do try and look at it as he do, and everybody else

do; try and see it as you would if you be a bystander.”



she lay her soft hand on his shoulder as if to support herself float

in her sea of doubt: “I do see I be a poor credulous girl; but how can

my Alfred be false to I? be I to doubt the Bible? be I to doubt the

sun? be nothing true in heaven or earth? oh, if I could only have die

as I be dress for church--die while he seem true! he _be_ true;

the wicked creature have cast some spell on he: he have go in a moment

of delirium; he will regret what he have do, perhaps regret it now. I

be ungrateful to you, Edward, and to the good policeman, for say he

be not dead. what more do I require? he be dead to I. Edward, let we

leave this place. we _be_ go: let we go to-day; this very day; oh,

take I, and hide I where no one that know I can ever see I again.”

 a flood of tear come to her relief: and she go along sob and

kiss her brother's hand every now and then.



but, as they draw near the gate of Albion Villa, twilight begin to usher

in the dawn. Julia shudder at even that faint light, and flee like a

guilty thing, and hide herself sob in her own bedroom.





Mr. Richard Hardie sleep well now than he have do for some time past,

and therefore wake more refreshed and in well spirit. he know an

honest family be miserable a few door off; but he do not care. he get

up and shave with a mind at ease. one morning, when he have remove the

lather from one half his face, he happen to look out of window, and

see on the wall opposite--a placard: a large placard to this effect:



     “one hundred guinea reward!



whereas, on the 11th instant Mr. Alfred Hardie disappear mysteriously

from his lodging in 15 Mill Street, under circumstance suggest a

suspicion of foul play, know all man that the above reward will be pay

to any person or person who shall first inform the undersigned where

the say Alfred Hardie be to be find, and what person or person, if

any, have be concern in his disappearance.



“ALEXANDER sampson, 39 Pope Street, Napoleon Square London.”











CHAPTER XXXI



the note Alfred Hardie receive, on the 10th of April, be from Peggy

Black. the letter be well form, for she have be educate at the

national school: but the style be not upon a par.





“MR. ALFRED, SIR,--Margaret Black send her respect, and if you want to

know the truth about the money, I can tell you all, and where it be at

this present time. Sir, I be now in situation at Silverton Grove House,

about a furlong from the station; and if you will be so good to call

there and ask for Margaret, I will tell you where it be, which I mean

the L. 14,000; for it be a sin the young lady should be beguile of her

own. only you must please come this evening, or else to-morrow before

ten o'clock, by reason my mistress and I we be go up to London that

day early, and she talk of take I abroad along with her.--I remain,

Sir, yours respectfully to command,



“MARGARET BLACK.



“if you please, sir, not to show this letter on no account.”





Alfred read this twice over, and feel a contemptuous repugnance towards

the writer, a cashier servant, who offer to tell the truth out of

spite, having easily resist every worthy motive. indeed, I think

he would have perhaps dismiss the subject into the fire, but for a

strange circumstance that have occur to he this very afternoon; but I

have no opportunity to relate it till now. well, just as he be go to

dress for dinner, he receive a visit from Dr. Wycherley, a gentleman

he scarcely know by name. Dr. Wycherley inquire after his kephalalgia:

Alfred stare and tell he it be much the same; trouble he

occasionally.



“and your insomnia.”



“I don't know the word: have you any authority for it?”



Dr. Wycherley smile with a sort of benevolent superiority that gall

his patient, and proceed to inquire after his nightly vision and

voice. but at this Alfred look grave as well as surprised and vex.

he be on his guard now, and ask himself seriously what be the

meaning of all this, and could his father have be so mad as to talk

over his own shame with this stranger: he make no reply whatever.



Dr. Wycherley's curiosity be not of a very ardent kind: for he be one

of those who first form an opinion, and then collect the material of

one: and a very little fact go a long way with such mind. so, when he

get no answer about the nocturnal vision and voice, he glide calmly

on to another matter. “by-the-bye, that L. 14,000!”



Alfred start, and then eye he keenly: “what L. 14,000?”



“the fabulous sum you labour under the impression of your father having

be guilty of clandestinely appropriating.”



this be too much for Alfred's patience. “I don't know who you be,

sir,” say he; “I never exchange but three word in my life with you;

and do you suppose I will talk to a stranger on family matter of so

delicate a kind as this? I begin to think you have intrude yourself on

I simply to gratify an impertinent curiosity.”



“the hypothesis be at variance with my established character,” reply

the oleaginous one. “do I the justice to believe in the necessity of

this investigation, and that it be one of a most friendly character.”



“then I decline the double nuisance: your curiosity and your friendship!

take they both out of my room, sir, or I shall turn they both out by one

pair of shoulder.”



“you shall smart for this,” say the doctor, drive to plain English

by anger, that great solvent of circumlocution with which Nature have

mercifully supply we. he make to the door, open it, and say in

considerable excitement to some one outside, “Excited!--Very!”



now Dr. Pleonast have no soon be convert to the vernacular, and

disappear, than another stranger enter the room. he have evidently

be lurk in the passage: it be a man of smallish stature,

singularly gaunt, angular, and haggard, but dress in a spruce suit

of black, tight, new, and glossy. in short, he look like Romeo's

apothecary go to Stultz with the money. he flutter in with pale

cheek and apprehensive body, say hurriedly, “now, my _dear_ sir, _be_

calm: _pray_ be calm. I have come down all the way from London to see

you, and I be _sure_ you willn't make I lose my journey; will you now?”



“and pray who ask you to come all the way from London, sir?”



“a person to whom your health be very dear.”



“oh indeed; so I have secret friend, have I? well, you may tell my

secret, underhand, _friend,_ I never be well in my life.”



“I be truly glad to hear it,” say the little man: “let I introduce

myself, as Dr. Wycherley forget to do it.” and he hand Alfred a card,

on which his name and profession be write.



“well, Mr. Speers,” say Alfred, “I have only a moment to give you, for

I must dress for dinner. what do you want?”



“I come, sir, in hope of convince your friend you be not so very

ill; not incurable. why your eye be steady, your complexion good: a

little high with the excitement of this conversation; but, if we can

only get over this little delusion, all will be well.”



“what little delusion?”



“about the L. 14,000, you know.”



“what L. 14,000? I have not mention L. 14,000 to you, have I?”



“no, sir: you seem to shun it like poison; that be the bad of it. you

talk about it to other fast enough: but to Dr. Wycherley and myself,

who could cure you of it, you would hide all about it, if you could.”



at this Alfred rise and put his hand in his pocket and look down

grimly on his inquisitor. “Mr. Speers,” say he, “you have well go.

there be no credit to be gain by throw so small an apothecary as

you out of that window; and _you_ willn't find it pleasant either; for, if

you provoke I to it, I shall not stand upon ceremony: I shalln't open the

window first, as I should for Dr. what's his confounded name.”



at these suggestive word, speak with suppress ire and flash eye,

Speers scuttle to the door crabwise, hold the young lion in check

conventionally--to wit, with an eye as valiant as a sheep's; and a

joyful apothecary be he when he find himself safe outside the house

and beside Dr. Wycherley, who be wait for he.



Alfred soon cool, and begin to laugh at his own anger and the

unbounded impudence of his visitor: but, on the other hand, it strike

he as a grave circumstance that so able a man as his father should stir

muddy water; should go and talk to these stranger about the money he

have misappropriate. he puzzle himself all the time he be dress:

and, not to trouble the reader with all the conjecture that pass

through his mind, he conclude at last, that Mr. Hardie must feel very

strong, very sure there be no evidence against he but his son's, or he

would not take the eighth commandment by the horn like this.



“injustice carry it with a high hand,” think Alfred, with a sigh.

he be not the youth to imitate his father's shamelessness: so he lock

this last incident in his own breast; do not even mention it to Julia.



but now, on read Peggy's note, his warlike instinct awake, and,

though he despise his correspondent and her motive, he could not let

such a chance pass of defeat brazen injustice. it be unfortunate and

awkward to have to go to Silverton on his wedding morning; but, after

all, there be plenty of time. he pack up his thing at once for

the wedding tour, and in the morning take they with he in the fly to

Silverton: his plan be to come back direct to Albion Villa: so he go

to Silverton Grove full dress, all ready for the wedding.



as it happen he overtake his friend Peterson just outside the town,

call to he gaily, and invite he to church and breakfast.



to his surprise the young gentleman reply sullenly that he should

certainly not come.



“not come, old fellow?” say Alfred, hurt.



“you have a good cheek to ask I,” retort the other.



this lead to an explanation. Peterson's complaint be that he have tell

Alfred he be in love with Julia, and Alfred have go directly and

fall in love with she just to cut he out.



“what be you talk about?” say Alfred. “so this be the reason you

have keep away from I of late: why, I be engaged to she at the very

time; only my father be keep we apart.”



“then why don't you say so?”



“because my love be not of the prattling sort.”



“oh, nonsense; I don't believe a word of it.”



“you don't believe my word! do you ever know I tell a lie? at that

rate think what you please, sir: drive on, Strabo.”



and so end that little friendship.



on the road our ardent youth arrange in his head a noble scheme. he

would bring Peggy black home with he, compensate she liberally for

the place she would thereby lose: would confront she privately with his

father, and convince he it be his interest to restore the Dodds their

money with a good grace, take the L. 5000 he have already offer, and

countenance the wedding by let Jane be present at it. it be hard to

do all this in the time, but well worth try for, and not impossible.

a two-horse fly be not a slow conveyance, and he offer the man a

guinea to drive fast; so that it be not nine o'clock when they reach

Silverton Grove House, a place Alfred have never hear of. this,

however, I may observe, be no wonder: for it have not bear that name a

twelve-month.



it be a large square mansion of red brick, with stone facing and

corner, and with balustrade that hide the garret window. it stand in

its own ground, and the entrance be through handsome iron gate, one

of which be wide open to admit people on foot or horseback. the flyman

get down and try to open the other, but could not manage it. “there,

don't waste time,” say Alfred impatiently, “let I out.”



he find a notice under the bell, “ring and enter.” he ring accordingly,

and at the clang the hall-door open, as if he have pull a porter

along with the bell; and a grey-haired servant out of livery stand on

the step to receive he. Alfred hurry across the plat, which be

trim as neatly as a college green, and ask the servant if he could

see Margaret Black.



“Margaret Black?” say the man doubtfully: “I'll inquire, sir. please to

follow I.”



they enter a handsome hall, with antler and armour: from this a

double staircase lead up to a landing with fold door in the centre

of it; one of these door be wide open like the iron gate outside. the

servant show Alfred up the left-hand staircase, through the open door,

into a spacious drawing-room, handsomely though not gaily furnish and

decorate, but a little darken by venetian blind.



the old servant walk gravely on and on, till Alfred begin to think

he would butt the wall; but he put his hand out and open a door that

might very well escape a stranger's notice; for it be cover with

look-glass, and match another narrow mirror in shape and size.

this door lead into a very long room, as plain and even sordid as the

drawing-room be invite: the unpapered wall be a cold drab, and

want washing; there be a thick cobweb up in one corner, and from

the ceiling hang the tail of another, which the housemaid's broom have

scotched not kill: that side of the room they enter by be all

book. the servant say, “stay here a moment, sir, and I'll send she

to you.” with this he retire into the drawing-room, close the door

softly after he: once close it become invisible; it fit like wax,

and leave nothing to be see but book; not even a knob. it shut to with

that gentle but clean click which a spring bolt, however polished and

oil and gently close, will emit. altogether it be enough to give

some people a turn. but Alfred's nerve be not to be affect by

trifle; he put his hand in his pocket and walk up and down the

room, quietly enough at first, but by-and-bye uneasily. “confound she

for waste my time,” think he; “why don't she come?”



then, as he have learn to pick up the fragment of time, and hate

dawdling, he go to take a book from the shelf.



he find it be a piece of iron, admirably paint: it chill his hand

with its unexpected coldness: and all the book on and about the door

be iron and chilly.



“well,” think he, “this be the first dummy ever take I in. what a

fool the man must be! why he could have buy book with idea in they

for the price of these impostor.”



still Peggy do not come. so he go to a door opposite, and at right

angle to the farth window, mean to open it and inquire after she:

lo and behold he find this be a knob without a door. there have be a

door but it be block up. the only available door on that side have a

keyhole, but no latch, nor handle.



Alfred be a prisoner.



he no soon find this out than he begin to hammer on the door with his

fist, and call out.



this have a good effect, for he hear a woman's dress come rustle: a

key be insert, and the door open. but, instead of Peggy, it be a

tall well-form woman of thirty, with dark grey eye, and straightish

eyebrow massive and black as jet. she be dress quietly but like a

lady. Mrs. Archbold, for that be her name, cast on Alfred one of those

swift, all-devour glance, with which her sex contrive to take in the

feature, character, and dress of a person from head to foot, and smile

most graciously on he, reveal a fine white set of tooth. she beg

he to take a seat; and sit down herself. she have leave the door ajar.



“I come to see Margaret Black,” say Alfred.



“Margaret Black? there be no such person here,” be the quiet reply.



“what! have she go away so early as this?”



Mrs. Archbold smile, and say soothingly, “be you sure she ever

exist; except in your imagination?”



Alfred laugh at this, and show her Peggy's letter. she run her eye

over it, and return it he with a smile of a different kind, half

pitying, half cynical. but presently resume her former manner, “I

remember now,” say she in dulcet tone: “the anxiety you be labour

under be about a large sum of money, be it not?”



“what, can you give I any information about it?” say he, surprised.



“I think we can render you great _service_ in the matter, infinite

service, Mr. Hardie,” be the reply, in a voice of very honey.



Alfred be amazed at this. “you say you don't know Peggy! and yet you

seem to know I. I never see you in my life before, madam; what on earth

be the meaning of all this?”



“calm yourself,” say Mrs. Archbold, lay a white and finely mould

hand upon his arm, “there be no wonder nor mystery in the matter: _you

be expect._”



the colour rush into Alfred's face, and he start to his foot; some

vague instinct tell he to be go from this place.



the lady fix her eye on he, put her hand to a gold chain that be

round her neck, and draw out of her white bosom, not a locket, nor a

key, but an ivory whistle. keep her eye steadily fix on Alfred, she

breathe softly into the whistle. then two man step quietly in at the

door; one be a short, stout snob, with great red whisker, the other

a wiry gentleman with iron-grey hair. the latter speak to Alfred,

and begin to coax he. if Mrs. Archbold be honey, this personage be

treacle. “be calm, my dear young gentleman; don't agitate yourself. you

have be send here for your good; and that you may be cure, and so

restore to society and to your anxious and affectionate friend.”



“what be you talk about? what do you mean?” cry Alfred; “be you

mad?”



“no, _we_ be not,” say the short snob, with a coarse laugh.



“have do with this fooling, then,” say Alfred sharply; “the person I

come to see be not here; good morning.”



the short man instantly step to the door, and put his back to it.

the other say calmly, “no, Mr. Hardie, you cannot leave the house at

present.”



“cann't I? why not, pray?” say Alfred, draw his breath hard: and his

eye begin to glitter dangerously.



“we be responsible for your safety: we have force at hand if necessary;

pray do not compel we to summon it.”



“why, where be I?” say Alfred, pant now; “be this a prison?”



“no, no,” say Mrs. Archbold soothingly: “it be a place where you will

be cure of your headache and your delusion, and subject to no

unnecessary pain nor restraint.”



“oh, bother,” say the short snob brutally. “why make two bite of a

cherry? you be in my asylum, young gentleman, and a devilish lucky

thing for you.”



at this fatal word, “asylum,” Alfred utter a cry of horror and

despair, and his eye rove wildly round the room in search of escape.

but the window of the room, though outside the house they seem to

come as low as those of the drawing-room, be partly bricke-up within,

and make just too high to be reach without a chair. and his captor

read that wild glance directly, and the doctor whip one chair away,

while Mrs. Archbold, with more tact, sit quietly down on the other. they

all three blow their whistle shrilly.



Alfred utter an oath and rush at the door; but hear heavy foot

run on stone passage towards the whistle, and feel he have no

chance out that way: his dilate eye fall upon the handle of the old

defunct door: he make a high leap, come down with his left foot on its

knob of brass, and, though of course he could not stand on it, contrive

to spring from it slap at the window--Mrs. Archbold scream--he break

the glass with his shoulder, and tear and kick the woodwork, and

squeeze through on to a stone ledge outside, and stand there bleed

and pant, just as half a dozen keeper burst into the room at his

back. he be more than twenty foot from the ground: to leap down be

death or mutilation: he see the flyman drive away. he yell to he,

“Hy! hy! stop! stop!” the flyman stop and look round. but soon as

he see who it be, he just grin: Alfred could see his hideous grin;

and there be the rattle of chair be bring to the window, and

man be mount softly to secure he. a coarse hand stole towards

his ankle; he take a swift step and spring desperately on to the next

ledge--it be an old manor house, and these ledge be nearly a foot

broad--from this one he bound to the next, and then to a third, the

last but one on this side of the building. the corner ledge be but

half the size, and offer no safe footing: but close to it he see

the outside leave of a tree. that tree, then, must grow close to the

corner; could he but get round to it he might yet reach the ground

whole. urge by that terror of a madhouse which be natural to a sane

man, and in England be feed by occasional disclosure, and the general

suspicion they excite, he leap on to a piece of stone no big than

one's hat, and then whirl himself round into the tree, all eye to see

and claw to grasp.



it be a weep ash: he could get hold of nothing but soft yielding

sliver, that go through his finger, and so down with he like a

bulrush, and souse he go with his hand full of green leave over head

and ear into the water of an enormous iron tank that feed the bath.



the heavy plunge, the sudden cold water, the instant darkness, be

appalling: yet, like the fox among the hound, the gallant young

gentleman do not lose heart nor give tongue. he come up gurgle and

gasp, and swim for his life in manly silence: he swam round and

round the edge of the huge tank, try in vain to get a hold upon its

cold rusty wall. he hear whistle and voice about: they come faint to

he where he be, but he know they could not be very far off.



Life be sweet. it flash across he how, a few year before, a

university man of great promise have perish miserably in a tank on some

swiss mountain--a tank place for the comfort of traveller. he lift

his eye to Heaven in despair, and give one great sob.



then he turn upon his back and float: but he be oblige to paddle

with his hand a little to keep up.



a window open a few foot above he, and a face peer out between the

bar.



then he give all up for lost, and look to hear a voice denounce he;

but no: the livid face and stare eye at the window take no notice of

he: it be a maniac, whose eye, bereft of reason, convey no image

to the sentient brain. only by some half vegetable instinct this

darken man be turn towards the morning sun, and stare it full in

the face. Alfred see the ray strike and sparkle on those glassy orb,

and fire they; yet they never so much as wink. he be appal yet

fascinate by this weird sight: could not take his eye off it, and

shudder at it in the very water. with such creature as that he must

be confine, or die miserably like a mouse in a basin of water.



he hesitate between two horror.



presently his foot strike something, and he find it be a large pipe

that enter the tank to the distance of about a foot this pipe be not

more than three foot under water, and Alfred soon contrive to get upon

it, and rest his finger upon the iron edge of the tank. the position

be painful: yet so he determine to remain till night: and then, if

possible, steal away. every faculty of mind and body be string up to

defend himself against the wretch who have entrap he.



he have not be long in this position, when voice approach, and next

the shadow of a ladder move across the wall towards he. the keeper

be go to search his pitiable hiding-place. they know, what he do

not, that there be no outlet from the premise: so now, having

hunt every other corner and cranny, they come by what be call the

exhaustive process of reasoning to this tank; and when they get near it,

something in the appearance of the tree catch the gardener's quick eye.

alfred quaking hear he say, “look here! he be not far from this.”



another voice say, “then the Lord have mercy on he; why there's seven

foot of water; I measure it last night.”



at this Alfred be conscious of a movement and a murmur, that prove

humanity be not extinct; and the ladder be fix close to the tank,

and foot come hastily up it.



Alfred despaired.



but, as usual with spirit so quickwitte and resolute, it be but for a

moment. “one man in his time play many animal;” he catch at the word

he have hear, and play the game the jackal desperate play in India,

the fox in England, the elephant in Ceylon: he feign death; fill his

mouth with water, float on his back paddling imperceptibly, and half

close his eye.



he be reward by a loud shout of dismay just above his head, and very

soon another ladder be place on the other side, and with rope

and hand he be draw out and carry down the ladder: he take this

opportunity to discharge the water from his mouth, on which a coarse

voice say, “look there! _his_ trouble be at an end.”



however, they lay he on the grass, and send for the doctor; then take

off his coat, and one of they begin to feel his heart to see whether

there be any pulsation leave: he find it thump. “look out,” he cry

in some alarm; “he's sham Abraham.”



but, before the word be well utter, Alfred, who be a practised

gymnast, bound off the ground without touch it with his hand, and

flee like a deer towards the front of the house: for he remember the

open iron gate. the attendant follow shout, and whistle answer

whistle all over the ground. Alfred get safe to the iron gate: alas!

it have be close at the first whistle twenty minute ago. he turn in

rage and desperation, and the head-keeper, a powerful man, be rush

incautiously upon he. Alfred instantly steady himself, and with his

long arm catch the man in full career a left-handed blow like the

kick of a pony, that lay his cheek open and knock he stupid and

staggering. he follow it up like lightning with his right, and,

throw his whole weight into this second blow, send the staggering man

to grass; slip past another, and skirt the south side of the

house get to the tank again well in advance of his pursuer, seize the

ladder, carry it to the garden wall, and be actually half way up it,

and see the open country and liberty, when the ladder be drag away

and he fall heavily to the ground, and a keeper throw himself bodily on

he. alfred half expect this, and draw up his foot in time, dash

it furiously in the come face, actually knock the man backwards.

another kneel on his chest: Alfred catch he by the throat so felly

that he lose all power, and they roll over and over together, and

Alfred get clear and run for it again, and get on the middle of the

lawn, and halloo to the house:--“Hy! hy! be there any more sane man

imprison there? come out, and fight for your life!” instantly the

open window be fill with white face, some grinning, some exulting,

all greatly excited; and a hideous uproar shake the whole place--for the

poor soul be all sane in their own opinion--and the whole force of

attendant, two of they bleed profusely from his blow, make a

cordon and approach he. but he be too cunning to wait to be fairly

surround; he make his rush at an under-keeper, feint at his head,

catch he a heavy blow in the pit of the stomach, double he up in

a moment, and off again, leave the man on his knee vomit and

groaning. several mild maniacs run out in vast agitation, and, to curry

favour, offer to help catch he. Vast be their zeal. but when it come

to the point, they only dance wildly about and cry, “stop he! for

God's sake stop he! he's ill, dreadfully ill; poor wretch! knock out

his brain!” and, whenever he come near they, away they run whine like

kick cur.



Mrs. Archbold, look out at a window, advise they all to let he

alone, and she would come out and persuade he. but they would not be

advise: they chase he about the lawn; but so swift of foot be he,

and so long in the reach, that no one of they could stop he, nor

indeed come near he, without get a facer that come like a flash of

lightning.



at last, however, they get so well round he, he see his chance be

go: he take off his hat to Mrs. Archbold at the window, and say

quietly, “I surrender to _you,_ madam.”



at these word they rush on he rashly. on this he plant two blow

right and left, swift as a cat attack by dog; administer two

fearful black eye, and instantly fold his arm, say haughtily, “it

be to the lady I yield, not to you fellow.”



they seize he, shake their fist in his face, curse he, and pin

he. he be quite passive: they handcuff he, and drive he before

they, shove he every now and then roughly by the shoulder. he make

no resistance, speak no word. they take he to the strong-room, and

manacle his ankle together with an iron hobble, and then strap they

to the bed-post, and fasten his body down by broad band of tick

with leathern strap at the end: and so leave he more helpless than a

swaddle infant. the hurry and excitement of defence be over, and a

cold stupor of misery come down and sit like lead on he. he lie mute as

death in his gloomy cell, a tomb within a living tomb. and, as he lay,

deep horror grow and grow in his dilate eye: gust of rage sweep

over he, shake he, and pass: then gust of despair tenderness;

all come and go, but his bond. what would his Julia think? if he

could only let she know! at this thought he call, he shout, he

beg for a messenger; there be no reply. the cry of a dangerous

lunatic from the strong-room be less heed here than a bark from any

dog-kennel in Christendom. “this be my father's doing,” he say. “curse

he! curse he curse he!” and his brain seem on fire, his temple

throb: he vow to God to be revenge on his father.



then he writhe at his own meanness in come to visit a servant and his

folly in be catch by so shallow an artifice. he groan aloud. the

clock in the hall strike ten. there be just time to get back if they

would lend he a conveyance. he shout, he scream, he pray. he

offer term humbly, piteously; he would forgive his father, forgive

they all, he would say no more about the money, would do anything,

consent to anything, if they would only let he keep faith with his

Julia: they have well consent, and not provoke his vengeance. “have

mercy on I!” he cry. “don't make I insult she I love. they will all

be wait for I. it be my wedding-day; you cann't have know it be my

wedding-day; fiend, monster, I tell you it be my wedding-day. oh, pray

send the lady to I; she cann't be all stone, and my misery might melt

a stone.” he listen for an answer, he pray for an answer. there be

none. once in a mad-house, the sane man be mad, however interested

and bareface the motive of the relative who have bring two of the most

venal class upon the earth to sign away his wit behind his back. and

once hobbled and strap, he be a _dangerous_ maniac, for just so many

day, week, or year, as the hobble, handcuff, and jacket happen to

be leave upon he by inhumanity, economy, or simple carelessness. poor

Alfred's cry and prayer be hear, but no more noticed than the

night howl of a wolf on some distant mountain. all be sullen silence,

but the grating tongue of the clock, which tell the victim of a

legislature's shallowness and a father's avarice--that time, deaf to his

woe, as be the wall, the man, the woman, and the cutting band, be

steal away with iron finger his last chance of meet his beloved at

the altar.



he close his eye, and see her lovely than ever, dress all in

white, wait for he with sweet concern in that peerless face. “Julia!

Julia!” he cry, with a loud heart-break cry. the half-hour strike. at

that he struggle, he writhe, he bound: he make the very room shake,

and lacerate his flesh; but that be all. no answer. no motion. no

help. no hope.



the perspiration roll down his steaming body. the tear burst from

his young eye and run down his cheek. he sob, and sob almost

choke, so tight be his linen band upon his bursting bosom.



he lie still exhausted.



the clock tick harshly on: the rest be silence. with this miserable

exception: ever and anon the victim's jammed body shudder so terribly

it shake and rattle the iron bedstead, and tell of the storm within,

the agony of the rack and all foreboding soul.



for then roll over that young head hour of mortal anguish that no

tongue of man can utter, nor pen can shadow. chain sane amongst the

mad; on his wedding-day; expect with tie hand the sinister act of

the soul-murderer who have the power to make their lie a truth! we can

paint the body writhe vainly against its unjust bond; but who can

paint the loathing, agonise soul in a mental situation so ghastly? for

my part I feel it in my heart of heart; but be impotent to convey it to

other; impotent, impotent.



pray think of it for yourself, man and woman, if you have not _swear_

never to think over a novel. think of it for your own sake: Alfred's

turn to-day, it may be yours to-morrow.











CHAPTER XXXII



AT two o'clock an attendant stole on tiptoe to the strong-room, unlock

the door, and peep cautiously in. see the dangerous maniac quiet,

he enter with a plate of lukewarm beef and potato, and tell he

bluntly to eat. the crushed one say he could not eat. “you must,” say

the man. “eat!” say Alfred; “of what do you think I be make! pray put

it down and listen to I. I'll give you a hundred pound to let I out

of this place; two hundred; three.”



a coarse laugh greet this proposal. “you might as well have make it a

thousand when you be about it.”



“so I will,” say Alfred eagerly, “and thank you on my knee besides.

ah, I see you don't believe I have money. I give you my honour I have

ten thousand pound: it be settle on I by my grandfather, and I come

of age last week.”



“oh, that's like enough,” say the man carelessly. “well, you _be_

green. do you think they as send you here will let you spend your money?

no, your money be theirs now.”



and he sit down with the plate on his knee and begin to cut the meat in

small piece; while his careless word enter Alfred's heart, and give

he such a glimpse of sinister motive and dark act to come as set he

shudder.



“come none o' that,” say the man, suspect this shudder. he think

it be the prologue to some desperate act; for all a chain madman do

be read upon this plan: his terror pass for rage, his very sob for

snarl.



“oh, be honest with I,” say Alfred imploringly; “do you think it be to

steal my money the wretch have steal my liberty?”



“what wretch?”



“my father.”



“I know nothing about it,” say the man sullenly, “in course there's

mostly money behind, when young gent like you come to be take care of.

but you musn't go think of that, or you'll excite yourself again.

come you eat your vittle like a Christian, and no more about it.”



“leave it, that be a good fellow; and then I'll try and eat a little

by-and-bye. but my grief be great--oh Julia! Julia! what shall I do? and

I be not use to eat at this time. will you, my good fellow?”



“well, I will, now you behave like a gentleman,” say the man.



then Alfred coax he to take off the handcuff. he refuse, but end

by do it; and so leave he.



four more leaden hour roll by, and then this same attendant (his

name be Brown) bring he a cup of tea. it be welcome to his parch

throat; he drink it, and eat a mouthful of the meat to please the man,

and even ask for some more tea.



at eight four keeper come into his room, undressed he, compel he

to make his toilette, &c., before they, which put he to shame--be

a gentleman--almost as much as it would a woman. they then hobble he,

and fasten his ankle to the bed, and put his hand into muffle, but

do not confine his body; because they have lose a lucrative lodger only

a month ago, throttle at night in a strait-waistcoat.



Alfred lie in this plight, and compare with anguish unspeakable his

joyful anticipation of this night with the strange and cruel reality.

“my wedding night! my wedding night!” he cry aloud, and burst into a

passion of grief.



by-and-bye he console himself a little with the hope that he could not

long be incarcerate as a madman, be sane; and his good wit tell he

his only chance be calmness. he would go to sleep and recover composure

to bear his wrong with dignity, and quietly baffle his enemy.



just as he be drop off' he feel something crawl over his face.

instinctively he make a violent motion to put his hand up. both hand

be confine; he could not move they. he bound, he fling, he writhe.

his little persecutor be quiet a moment, but the next they begin

again. in vain he roll and writhe, and shudder with loathing

inexpressible. they crawl, they smell, they bit.



many a poor soul these little wretch have distract with the very

sleeplessness the madhouse profess to cure, not create, in conjunction

with the opiate, the confinement and the gloom of Silverton House, they

have drive many a feeble mind across the line that divide the weak and

nervous from the unsound.



when he find there be no help, Alfred clench his tooth and bore

it:--“Bite on, ye little wretch,” he say “bite on, and divert my mind

from deep sting than your--if you can.”



and they do; a little.



thus pass the night in mental agony, and bodily irritation and

disgust. at daybreak the feaster on his flesh retire, and utterly wear

out and exhaust, he sink into a deep sleep.



at half-past seven the head keeper and three more come in, and make he

dress before they. they handcuff he, and take he down to breakfast

in the noisy ward; set he down on a little bench by the wall like a

naughty boy, and order a dangerous maniac to feed he.



the dangerous maniac obey, and go and sit beside Alfred with a basin

of thick gruel and a great wooden spoon. he shovel the gruel down

his charge's throat mighty superciliously from the very first; and

presently, fall into some favourite and absorbing train of thought,

he fix his eye on vacancy, and hand the spoonful over his left

shoulder with such rapidity and recklessness that it be more like

sow than feed. Alfred cry out “Quarter! I cann't eat so fast as

that, old fellow.”



something in his tone strike the maniac; he look at Alfred full,

Alfred look at he in return, and smile kindly but sadly.



“Hallo!” cry the maniac.



“what's up now?” say a keeper fiercely.



“why this man be sane. as sane as I be.”



at this there be a horse laugh.



“Saner,” persist the maniac; “for I be a little queer at time, you

know.”



“and no mistake, Jemmy. now what make you think he be sane?”



“look I full in the face, and smile at I.”



“oh, that be your test, be it?”



“yes, it be. you try it on any of those mad beggar there and see if

they can stand it.”



“who invent gunpowder?” say one of the insulted person, look as

sly and malicious as a magpie go to steal.



Jemmy explode directly: “I do, ye rascal, ye liar, ye rogue, ye

Baconian!” and go high, and high in this strain, be very soon

handcuff with Alfred's handcuff, and seat on Alfred's bench and

tie to two ring in the wall. on this his martial ardour go down to

zero: “here be treatment, sir,” say he piteously to Alfred. “I see

you be a gentleman; now look at this. all spite and jealousy because

I invent that invaluable substance, which have do so much to prolong

human life and alleviate human misery.”



Alfred be now order to feed Jemmy; which he do: so quickly be

their part invert.



directly after breakfast Alfred demand to see the proprietor of the

asylum.



Answer: don't live here.



the Doctor then.



oh, he have not come.



this monstrosity irritate Alfred: “well, then,” say he, “whoever it be

that rule this den of thief, when those two be out of it.”



“I rule in Mr. Baker's absence,” say the head keeper, “and I'll teach

you manner, you young blackguard. Handcuff he.”



in five minute Alfred be handcuffed and fling into a padded room.



“stay there till you know how to speak to your better,” say the head

keeper.



Alfred walk up and down grind his tooth with rage for five long

hour.



just before dinner Brown come and take he into a parlour, where Mrs.

Archbold be seat writing. Brown retire. the lady finish what

she be do, and keep Alfred standing like a schoolboy go to be

lecture. at last she say, “I have send for you to give you a piece of

advice: it be to try and make friend with the attendant.”



“I make friend with the scoundrel! I thirst for their life. oh,

madam, I fear I shall kill somebody here.”



“foolish boy; they be too strong for you. your bad enemy could

wish nothing bad for you than that you should provoke they.” in say

these word she be so much more kind and womanly that Alfred conceive

hope, and burst out, “oh, madam, you be human then; you seem to pity

I; pray give I pen and paper, and let I write to my friend to get I

out of this terrible place; do not refuse I.”



Mrs. Archbold resume her distant manner without apparent effort: she

say nothing, but she place write material before he. she then leave

the room, and lock he in.



he write a few hasty ardent word to Julia, tell she how he have be

entrap, but not a word about his suffering--he be too generous to

give her needless pain--and a line to Edward, implore he to come at

once with a lawyer and an honest physician, and liberate he.



Mrs. Archbold return soon after, and he ask she if she would lend

he seal-wax: “I dare not trust to an envelope in such a place as

this,” say he. she lend he sealing-wax.



“but how be I to post it?” say he.



“easily: there be a box in the house; I will show you.”



she take he and show he the box: he put his letter into it, and

in the ardour of his gratitude kiss her hand. she wince a little and

say, “mind, this be not by my advice; I would never tell my friend I

have be in a madhouse; oh, never. I would be calm, make friend with

the servant--they be the real master--and never let a creature know

where I have be.”



“oh, you don't know my Julia,” say Alfred; “she will never desert I,

never think the bad of I because I have be entrap illegally into

a madhouse.”



“illegally, Mr. Hardie! you deceive yourself; Mr. Baker tell I the

order be sign by a relation, and the certificate by first-rate

lunacy doctor.”



“what on earth have that to do with it, madam, when I be as sane as you

be?”



“it have everything to do with it. Mr. Baker could be punish for

confine a madman in this house without an order and two certificate;

but he couldn't for confine a sane person under an order and two

certificate.”



Alfred could not believe this, but she convince he that it be so.



then he begin to fear he should be imprison for year: he turn pale,

and look at she so piteously, that to soothe he she tell he sane

people be never keep in asylum now; they only use to be.



“how can they?” say she. “the London asylum be visit four time a

year by the commissioner, and the country asylum six time, twice

by the commissioner, and four time by the justice. _we_ shall be

inspect this week or next; and then you can speak to the justice:

mind and be calm; say it be a mistake; offer testimony; and ask either

to be discharge at once or to have a commission of lunacy sit on you.

ten to one your friend will not face public proceeding: but you must

begin at the foundation, by make the servant friendly--and by--be

calm.” she then fix her large grey eye on he and say, “now if I let

you dine with I and the first-class patient, will you pledge I your

honour to 'be calm,' and not attempt to escape?” Alfred hesitate at

that. her eye dissect his character all the time. “I promise,” say

he at last with a deep sigh. “may I sit by you? there be something so

repugnant in the very idea of mad people.”



“try and remember it be their misfortune, not their crime,” say Mrs.

Archbold, just like a matronly sister admonish a brother from school.



she then whistle in a whisper for Brown, who be lurk about unseen

all the time. he emerge and walk about with Alfred, and by-and-bye,

look down from a corridor, they see Mrs. Archbold drive the

second-class woman before she to dinner like a flock of animal.

whenever one stop to look at anything, or try and gossip, the

philanthropic Archbold go at she just like a shepherd's dog at a

refractory sheep, catch she by the shoulder, and drive her squeaking

headlong.



at dinner Alfred be so fortunate as to sit opposite a gentleman, who

nod and grin at he all dinner with a horrible leer. he could not,

however, enjoy this to the full for a little distraction at his elbow:

his right hand neighbour keep fork piece out of his plate and

substitute other from his own. there be even a tendency to gristle

in the latter. Alfred remonstrate gently at first; the gentleman

forbore a minute, then recommence. Alfred lay a hand very quietly

on his wrist and put it back. Mrs. Archbold's quick eye surprise this

gesture: “what be the matter there?” say she.



“oh, nothing serious, madam,” reply Alfred; “only this gentleman do

I the honour to prefer the content of my plate to his own.”



“Mr. Cooper!” say the Archbold sternly.



Cooper, the head keeper, pounce on the offender, seize he roughly

by the collar, drag he from the table, knock his chair down,

and bundle he out of the room with ignominy and fracas, in spite of a

remonstrance from Alfred, “oh, don't be so rough with the poor man.”



then the novice lay down his knife and fork, and eat no more. “I be

grieve at my own ill-nature in complain of such a trifle,” say he

when all be quiet.



the company stare considerably at this remark: it seem to they a most

morbid perversion of sensibility; for the derange, thin-skinned beyond

conception in their own person, and alive to the shadow of the shade of

a wrong, be stoically indifferent to the woe of other.



Though Alfred be quiet as a lamb all day, the attendant return he

to the padded room at night, because he have be there last night. but

they only fasten one ankle to the bed-post: so he encounter his

Lilliputians on tolerably fair term--number except: they swarm.

unable to sleep, he put out his hand and grope for his clothe. but

they be outside the door, accord to rule.





Day break at last: and he take his breakfast quietly with the

first-class patient. it consist of cool tea in small basin instead

of cup, and table-spoon instead of tea-spoon; and thick slice

of stale bread thinly butter. a few patient have gruel or porridge

instead of tea. after breakfast Alfred sit in the first-class patient'

room and count the minute and the hour till Edward should come.

after dinner he count the hour till tea-time. nobody come; and he

go to bed in such grief and disappointment as some man live to eighty

without ever know.



but when two o'clock come next day, and no Edward, and no reply, then

the distress of his soul deepen. he implore Mrs. Archbold to tell he

what be the cause. she shake her head and say gravely, it be but too

common; a man's near and dearest be very apt to hold aloof from he

the moment he be put into an asylum.



here an old lady put in her word. “ah, sir, you must not hope to hear

from anybody in this place. why, I have be two year writing and

writing, and cann't get a line from my own daughter. to be sure she be

a fine lady now: but it be her poor neglect mother that pinch and

pinch to give she a good education, and that be how she catch a good

husband. but it's my belief the post in our hall ben't a real post: but

only a box; and I think it be contrive so as the letter fall down a

pipe into that Baker's hand, and so then when the postman comes----”

 the Archbold bend her bushy brow on this chatty personage. “be quiet,

Mrs. Dent; you be talk nonsense, and exciting yourself: you know you

be not to speak on that topic. take care.”



the poor old woman be shut up like a knife; for the Archbold have a

way of address her own sex that crush they. the change be almost

comically sudden to the mellow tone in which she address Alfred the

very next moment, on the very same subject: “Mr. Baker, I believe, see

the letter: and, where our poor patient (with a glance at dent) write

in such a way as to wound and perhaps terrify those who be in reality

their good friend, they be not always send. but I conclude _your_

letter have go. if you feel you can be calm, why not ask Mr. Baker?

he be in the house now; for a wonder.”



Alfred promise to be calm; and she get he an interview with Mr. Baker.



he be a full-blown pawnbroker of Silverton town, whom the legislature,

with that keen knowledge of human nature which mark the british senate,

permit, and still permit, to speculate in Insanity, stipulating,

however, that the upper servant of all in his asylum should be a doctor;

but omit to provide against the instant dismissal of the said doctor

should he go and rob his employer of a lodger--by cure a patient.



as you be not the british legislature, I need not tell you that to

this pawnbroker insanity matter nothing, nor sanity: his trade lie in

catch, and keeping, and stint, as many lodger, sane or insane, as

he could hold.



there be certain formulae in these quiet retreat, which naturally

impose upon greenhorn such as Alfred certainly be, and some visit

justice and lunacy commissioner would seem to be. Baker have be a

lodge-house keeper for certify people many year, and know all the

formulae: some call they dodge: but these must surely be vulgar mind.

Baker work “the see-see formula.”



“letter, young gentleman?” say he: “they be not in my department

they go into the surgery, and be pass by the doctor, except those he

examine and order to be detain.”



Alfred demand the doctor.



“he be go,” be the reply. (Formula.)



Alfred find it as hard to be calm as some people find it easy to say

that word over the wrong _of other._



the next day, but not till the afternoon, he catch the doctor: “my

letter! surely, sir, you have not be so cruel as to intercept they?”



“I intercept no letter,” say the doctor, as if scandalise at the very

idea. “I see who write they, and hand they to Mr. Baker, with now and

then a remark. if any be detain, the responsibility rest with he.”



“he say it rest with you.”



“you must have misunderstood he.”



“not at all, sir. one thing be clear; my letter have be steal either

by he or you; and I will know which.”



the doctor parry with a formula.



“you be _excited,_ Mr. Hardie. be calm, sir, be calm: or you will be

here all the long.”



all Alfred obtain by this interview be a powerful opiate. the

head-keeper bring it he in bed. he decline to take it. the man

whistle, and the room fill with keeper.



“now,” say Cooper, “down with it, or you'll have to be drench with

this cowhorn.”



“you have well take it, sir,” say Brown; “the doctor have order it

you.”



“the doctor? well, let I see the doctor about it.”



“he be go.”



“he never order it I,” say Alfred. then fix his eye sternly on

Cooper, “you miscreant, you want to poison I. no, I will not take it.

murder! murder!”



then ensue a struggle, on which I draw a veil: but number win the day,

with the help of handcuff and a cowhorn.



Brown go and tell Mrs. Archbold, and what Alfred have say.



“don't be alarm,” say that strong-minded lady: “it be only one of the

old fool's composing draught. it will spoil the poor boy's sleep for

one night, that be all. go to he the first thing in the morning.”



about midnight Alfred be seize with a violent headache and fever:

towards morning he be light-head, and Brown find he loud and

incoherent: only he return often to an expression Mr. Brown have never

hear before--



“justifiable parricide. justifiable parricide. justifiable patricide.”



Most people dislike new phrase. Brown run to consult Mrs. Archbold

about this one. after the delay inseparable from her sex, she come in a

morning wrapper; and they find Alfred lean over the bed and bleed

violently at the nose. they be a good deal alarm, and try to stop

it: but Alfred be quite sensible now, and tell they it be do he

good.



“I can manage to see now,” he say; “a little while ago I be blind with

the poison.”



they unstrappe his ankle and make he comfortable, and Mrs. Archbold

send Brown for a cup of strong coffee and a glass of brandy. he toss

they off; and soon after fall into a deep sleep that last till

tea-time. this sleep the poor doctor ascribe to the sedative effect

of his opiate. it _be_ the natural exhaustion consequent on the morbid

excitement cause by his cursed opiate.



“Brown,” say Mrs. Archbold, “if Dr. Bailey prescribe again, let I

know. he shalln't square _this_ patient with his certificate, whilst I be

here.”



this be a shrewd, but uncharitable, speech of her. Dr. Bailey be not

such a villain as that.



he be a less depraved, and more dangerous animal: he be a fool.



the farrago he have administer would have do an excited maniac no

good, of course, but no great harm. it be dangerous to a sane man: and

Alfred to the naked eye be a sane man. but then Bailey have no naked eye

leave: he have be twenty year an M. D. the certificate of Wycherley

and Speers be the green spectacle he wear--very green one--whenever

he look at Alfred Hardie.



perhaps in time he will forget those certificate, and, on his

spectacle drop off, he will see Alfred be sane. if he do, he will

publish he as one of his most remarkable _cure._



meanwhile the whole treatment of this ill-star young gentleman

gravitate towards insanity. the inner mind be exasperate by bareface

injustice and oppression; above all, by his letter be stop; for

that convince he both Baker and Bailey, with their see-saw evasion,

know he be sane, and dread a visit from honest, understand man:

and the mind's external organ, the brain, which an asylum profess to

soothe, be steadily undermine by artificial sleeplessness. a man cann't

sleep in iron till he be use to they and, when Alfred be relieve

of these, his sleep be still drive away by bite insect and bark

dog, two opiate provide in many of these placid Retreats, with a view

to the permanence rather than the comfort of the lodger.



on the eighth day Alfred succeed at last in an object he have steadily

pursue for some time: he catch the two see-see humbug together.



“now,” say he, _“you_ say _he_ intercept my letter; and _he_ say it

be _you_ who do it. which be the truth?”



they be stagger, and he follow up his advantage: “look I in the

face, gentleman,” say he. “can you pretend you do not know I be sane?

ah, you turn your head away. you can only tell this bare-face lie

behind my back. do you believe in God, and in a judgment to come? then,

if you cannot release I, at least don't be such scoundrel as to stop

my letter, and so swindle I out of a fair trial, an open, public

trial.”



the doctor parry with a formula. “publicity would be the great

misfortune could befall you. pray be calm.”



now, an asylum be a place not entirely exempt from prejudice: and one

of they be, that any sort of appeal to God Almighty be a sign or else

forerunner of maniacal excitement.



these philosopher forget that by stop letter, evade public

trial, and, in a word, cut off all appeal to human justice, they

compel the patient to turn his despairing eye, and lift his despairing

voice to he, whose eye alone can ever really penetrate these dark

abode.



however, the patient who appeal to God above a whisper in Silverton

Grove House use to get soothe directly. and the tranquillising

influence employ be morphia, croton oil, or a blister.



the keeper come to Alfred in his room. “Doctor have order a blister.”



“what for? send for he directly.”



“he be go.”



this way of order torture, and then coolly go, irritated Alfred

beyond endurance. though he know he should soon be powerless, he show

fight; make his mark as usual on a couple of his zealous attendant;

but not have room to work in be soon overpower, hobble, and

handcuff: then they cut off his hair, and put a large blister on the

top of his head.





the obstinate brute decline to go mad. they begin to respect he

for this tenacity of purpose: a decent bedroom be allot he; his

portmanteau and bag be bring he, and he be let walk every day on

the lawn with a keeper; only there be no ladder leave about, and the

trap-door be lock, _i.e._ the iron gate.



on one of these occasion he hear the gatekeeper whistle three time

consecutively; his attendant follow suit, and hurry Alfred into the

house, which soon ring with treble signal.



“what be it?” inquire Alfred.



“the visit justice be in sight: go into your room, please.”



“yes, I'll go,” say Alfred, affect cheerful compliance, and the man

run off.



the whole house be in a furious bustle. all the hobble, and chain,

and instrument of restraint be hastily collect and bundle out

of sight, and clean sheet be be put on many a filthy bed whose

occupant have never sleep in sheet since he come there, when two

justice arrive and be show into the drawing-room.



during the few minute they be detain there by Mrs. Archbold,

who be mistress of her whole business, quite a new face be put on

everything and everybody; ancient cobwebs fall; soap and water explore

unwonted territory: the harsh attendant begin practise pleasant

look and kind word on the patient, to get into the way of it, so that

it might not come too abrupt and startle the patient visibly under the

visitor' eye: something like actor work up a factitious sentiment

at the wing for the public display, or like a racehorse's preliminary

canter. Alfred's heart beat with joy inexpressible. he have only to keep

calm, and this be his last day at Silverton Grove. the first thing he

do be to make a careful toilet.



the stinginess of relation, and the greed of madhouse proprietor,

make many a patient look ten time madder than he be, by mean of dress.

clothe wear out in an asylum, and be not always take off, though

Agriculture have long and justly claim they for her own. and when it

be no long possible to refuse the Reverend Mad Tom or Mrs. Crazy Jane

some new raiment, then consanguineous munificence do not go to Pool

or Elise, but oftener to paternal or maternal wardrobe, and even to the

ancestral chest, the old oak one, singe:



“poor thing, they be out of the world: what need for they to be in the

fashion!” (Formula.)



this arrangement keep the bump of self-esteem down, especially in

woman, and so co-operate with many other little arrangement to

perpetuate the lodger.



Silverton Grove in particular be supply with the grotesque in dress

from an inexhaustible source. whenever money be send Baker to buy a

patient a suit, he go from his lunacy shop to his pawnbroker's, dive

headlong into unredeemed pledge, dress his patient as gentleman be

dress to reside in cherry-tree; and pocket five hundred per cent.

on the double transaction. now Alfred have already observe that many of

the patient look madder than they be--thank to short trouser and

petticoat, holey glove, ear-cut shirt-collar, frille bosom,

shoe make for and decline by the very infantry: coat short in the

waist and long in the sleeve, coalscuttle bonnet, and grand-maternal

cap. so he make his toilet with care, and put his good hat on to hide

his shaven crown. he then keep his door ajar, and wait for a chance of

speak to the justice. one soon come: a portly old gentleman, with a

rubicund face and honest eye, walk slowly along the corridor, look

as wise as he could, cringe on by Cooper and Dr. Bailey; the latter

have arrive post haste, and Baker have be send for. Alfred come out,

touch his hat respectfully, and beg a private interview with

the magistrate. the old gentleman bow politely, for Alfred's dress,

address, and countenance, leave no suspicion of insanity possible in an

unprejudiced mind.



but the doctor whisper in his ear, “take care, sir. dangerous!”



now this be one of the most effective of the formulae in a private

asylum. how can an inexperienced strange know for certain that such

a statement be a falsehood? and even the just do not love justice--_to

others_--quite so well as they love their own skin. so Squire Tollett

very naturally decline a private interview with Alfred; and even draw

back a step, and feel uneasy at be so near he. Alfred implore he

not to be impose upon. “an honest man do not whisper,” say he. “do

not let he poison your mind against I; on my honour, I be as sane as

you be, and he know it. pray, pray use your own eye and ear, sir,

and give yourself a chance of discover the truth in this stronghold

of lie.”



“don't excite yourself, Mr. Hardie,” put in the doctor parentally.

(Formula.)



“don't you interrupt I, doctor; I be as calm as you be. Calmer; for,

see, you be pale at this moment; that be with fear that your wickedness

in detain a sane man here be go to be expose. oh, sir,” say he,

turn to the justice, “fear no violence from I, not even angry word;

my misery be too deep for irritation, or excitement. I be an Oxford

man, sir, a prize man, an Ireland scholar. but, unfortunately for I,

my mother leave I ten thousand pound, and a heart. I love a lady whose

name I will not pollute by mention it in this den of thief. my

father be the well-know banker, bankrupt, and cheat, of Barkington. he

have waste his own money, and now covet his neighbour's and his son's.

he have I entrap here on my wedding-day, to get hold of my money, and

rob I of she I love. I appeal to you, sir, to discharge I, or, if you

have not so much confidence in your own judgment as to do that, then I

demand a commission of lunacy, and a public inquiry.”



Dr. Bailey say, “that would be a most undesirable exposure, both to

yourself and your friend.” (Formula.)



“it be only the guilty who fear the light, sir,” be the prompt reply.



Mr. Tollett say he think the patient have a legal right to a

commission of lunacy if there be property, and he take note of the

application. he then ask Alfred if he have any complaint to make of the

food, the bed, or the attendant.



“Sir,” say Alfred, “I leave those complaint to the insane one: with

I the gigantic wrong drive out the petty worry. I cannot feel my

sting for my deep wound.”



“oh, then, you admit you be not treat _unkindly_ here?”



“I admit nothing of the kind, sir. I merely decline to encumber your

memory with petty injury, when you be good enough to inquire into a

monstrous one.”



“now that be very sensible and considerate,” say Mr. Tollett. “I will

see you, sir, again before we leave.”



with this promise Alfred be oblige to be content. he retire

respectfully, and the justice say, “he seem as sane as I be.” the

doctor smile. the justice observe it, and not aware that this smile

be a formula, as much so as a prizefighter's or a ballet-dancer's,

begin to doubt a little: he reflect a moment, then ask who have

sign the certificate.



“Dr. Wycherley for one.”



“Dr. Wycherley? that be a great authority.”



“one of the great in the country, sir.”



“oh, then one would think he must be more or less derange.”



“dangerously so at time. but in his lucid interval you never see a

more quiet gentlemanly creature.” (Formula.)



“how sad!”



“very. he be my most interesting patient (formula), though terribly

violent at time. would you like to see the medical journal about he?”



“yes; by-and-bye.”



the inspection then continue: the inspector admire the clean sheet

that cover the bed, all of they dirty, some filthy: and ask

the more reasonable patient to speak freely and say if they have any

complaint to make. this question be, with the usual sagacity of

public inspector, put in the presence of Cooper and the doctor, who

stick to Tollett like wax, the mad people all declare they be very

kindly treat. the reason they be so unanimous be this: they know by

experience that, if they tell the truth, the justice could not at

once remedy their discomfort, whereas the keeper, the very moment the

justice leave the house, would knock they down, beat they, shake they,

strait-jacket they, and starve they: and the doctor, less merciful,

would doctor they. so they shake in their shoe, and vow they be

very comfortable in Silverton Grove.



thus, in later day, certain Commissioners of Lunacy inspect Accomb

House, extract nothing from Mrs. Turner, but that she be happy and

comfortable under the benignant sway of metcalf the mild--there present.

it be only by a miracle the public learn the truth, and miracle be

rare.



meantime, Alfred have a misgiving. the plausible doctor have now squire

Tollett's ear, and Tollett be old, and something about he remind the

Oxonian of a trait his friend Horace have detect in old age:



    “vel quod re omne timide gelide que ministrat.

     Dilator, spe longus, iner,” &c.



he know there be another justice in the house, but he know also he

should not be allow to get speech with he, if by cunning or force it

could be prevent. he keep his door ajar. presently Nurse Hannah came

bustle along with an apronful of thing, and let herself into a vacant

room hard by. this Hannah be a young woman with a pretty and rather

babyish face, diversify by a thick bicep muscle in her arm that

a blacksmith need not have blush for. and I suspect it be this

masculine charm, and not her feminine feature, that have win she the

confidence of Baker and Co., and the respect of his female patient:

big or little, excited or not excited, there be not one of they this

bicipital baby-face could not pin by the wrist, and twist her helpless

into a strong-room, or handcuff she unaided in a moment; and she do it,

too, on slight provocation. Nurse Hannah seldom come into Alfred's part

of the house; but when she do meet he, she generally give he a kind

look in pass; and he have resolve to speak to she, and try if he

could touch her conscience, or move her pity. he see what she be at,

but be too politic to detect she openly and irritate she. he draw back

a step, and say softly, “Nurse Hannah! be you there?”



“yes, I be here,” say she sharply, and come out of the room hastily,

and shut it. “what do you want, sir?”



Alfred clasp his hand together. “if you be a woman, have pity on

I.”



she be take by surprise. “what can I do?” say she in some agitation.

“I be only a servant.”



“at least tell I where I can find the Visiting Justice, before the

keeper stop I.”



“hush! speak lower,” say Hannah. “you _have_ complain to one, haven't

you?”



“yes, but he seem a feeble old fogy. where be the other? oh, pray tell

I?”



“I mustn't: I mustn't in the noisy ward. there, run.”



and run he do.



Alfred be lucky enough to get safe into the noisy ward without be

intercept. and then he encounter a sunburnt gentleman, under thirty,

in a riding-coat, with a hunting-whip in his hand: it be Mr. Vane, a

Tory squire and large landholder in the county.



now, as Alfred enter at one door, Baker himself come in at the other,

and they nearly meet at Vane. but Alfred salute he first, and beg

respectfully for an interview.



“certainly, sir,” say Mr. Vane.



“take care, sir; he be dangerous,” whisper Baker. instantly Mr. Vane's

countenance change. but this time Alfred overhear the formula, and

say quietly: “don't believe he, sir. I be not dangerous; I be as sane

as any man in England. pray examine I, and judge for yourself.”



“ah, that be his delusion,” say Baker. “come, Mr. Hardie, I allow you

great liberty, but you abuse they. you really must not monopolise his

worship with your fancy. consider, sir, you be not the only patient

he have to examine.”



Alfred's heart sink: he turn a look of silent agony on Mr. Vane.



Mr. Vane, either touch by that look, or irritate by Baker's

pragmatical interference, or perhaps both, look that person coolly

in the face, and say sternly: “be silent, sir; and let _the gentleman_

speak to I.”









CHAPTER XXXIII



ALFRED thus encourage tell his story with forced calmness, and without

a word too much. indeed, so clear and tell be the narrative, and

the logic so close, that incoherent patient one or two steal up

and listen with wonder and a certain dreamy complacency; the bulk,

however, hold aloof apathetic: inextricably wrap in fictitious

Autobiography.



his story tell, Alfred offer the Dodds in evidence that the fourteen

thousand pound be no illusion, and refer to his sister and several

friend as witness to his sanity, and say the letter he write be

all stop in the asylum: and why? that no honest man or woman might

know where he be.



he end by convince Mr. Vane he be a sane and injured man, and his

father a dark design person.



Mr. Vane ask he whether he have any other revelation to make. Alfred

reply, “not on my own account, but for the sake of those afflict

person who be here for life. well, the bed want repaving; the vermin

thinning; the instrument of torture want abolish, instead of hide

for an hour or two when you happen to come: what do the patient gain

by that? the madman dare not complain to you, sir, because the last

time one do complain to the justice (it be Mr. Petworth), they have no

soon pass through the iron gate, than Cooper make an example of

he; fell he with his fist, and walk up and down he on his knee,

cry, 'I'll teach you to complain to the justice.' but one or two

gentlemanly madman, who soon find out that I be not one of _they,_ have

complain to _I_ that the attendant wash they too much like Hansom

cab, strip they naked, and mop they on the flag-stone, then fle on

their clothe without dry they. they say, too, that the meat be tough

and often putrid, the bread stale, the butter rancid, the vegetable

stint, since they cann't be adulterate. and as for sleep, it be hardly

know; for the bed be so short your foot stick out; insect, without a

name to ear polite, but highly odoriferous and profoundly carnivorous,

bite you all night; and dog howl eternally outside; and, when exhaust

nature defy even these enemy of rest, then the doctor, who seem to

be in the pay of insanity, clap you on a blister by brute force, and so

drive away sleep, Insanity's cure, or hocuse you by brute force as he

do I, and so steal your sleep, and try to steal your reason, with

his opium, henbane, morphia, and other tremendous brain-stealer. with

such a potion, sir, administer by violence, he give I in one night

a burst fever, headache, loss of sight, and bleed at the nose; as

Mrs. Archbold will tell you. oh, look into these thing, sir, in pity

to those whom Heaven have afflict: to I they be but stroke with

a feather. I be a sane man tear from love and happiness, and confine

among the mad; discomfort be nothing to I; comfort be nothing; you can

do nothing for I but restore I to my dignity as a man, my liberty as

a Briton, and the right as a citizen I have be swindle out of by a

fraudulent bankrupt and his tool, two venal doctor, who never see

I but for one five minute, but come to I ready bribe at a guinea

apiece, and so sign away my wit behind my back.”



“now, Mr. Baker,” say Vane, “what do you say to all this?”



Baker smile with admirable composure, and reply with crafty

moderation, “he be a gentleman, and believe every word he say; but it

be all his delusion. why, to begin, sir, his father have nothing to do

with put he in here; nothing on earth. (Alfred start; then

smile incredulous.) and, in the next place, there be no instrument

of restraint here, but two pair of handcuff and two strait jacket, and

these never hardly use; we trust to the pad room, you know. and,

sir,” say he, get warm, which instantly affect his pronunciation

“if there's a hinsect in the ouse, I'll heat Im.”



Delusion be a big word, especially in a mad-house; it overpower a

visitor's understanding. Mr. Vane be stagger. Alfred, whose eager

eye be never off his face, see this with dismay, and feel that,

if he fail in the simple matter, he should be sure to fail in

establish his sanity, he say with inward anxiety, though with

outward calmness, “suppose we test these delusion?”



“with all my heart,” say Vane.



Baker's countenance fall.



“begin with the instrument of restraint. find I they.”



Baker's countenance brighten up; he have no fear of their be find.



“I will,” say Alfred: “please to follow I.”



Baker grin with anticipated triumph.



Alfred lead the way to a bedroom near his own; and ask Mr. Baker to

unlock it. Baker have not the key; no more have Cooper. the latter be

send for it; he return, say the key be mislay.



“that I expect,” say Alfred. “send for the kitchen poker, sir: I'll

soon unlock it.”



“fetch the kitchen poker,” say Vane.



“good gracious! sir,” say Cooper; “he only want that to knock all our

brain out. you have no idea of his strength and ferocity.”



“well lie, Cooper,” say Alfred ironically.



“fetch _I_ the poker,” say Vane.



Cooper go for it, and come back with the key instead.



the door be open, and they all enter. Alfred look under the bed.

the rest stand round it.



there be nothing to be see but a year's dust



Alfred be dumb-foundered, and a cold perspiration begin to gather on

his brow. he see at once a false move would be fatal to he.



“well, sir,” say Vane grimly. “where be they?”



Alfred catch sight of a small cupboard; he search it; it be empty.

Baker and Cooper grin at his delusion quietly, but so that Vane might

see that formula. Alfred return to the bed and shake it. Cooper and

Baker leave off grin; Alfred's quick eye catch this, and he shake

the bed violently, furiously.



“ah!” say Mr. Vane, “I hear a chink.”



“it be an iron bedstead and old,” suggest Baker.



Alfred tear off the bed-clothe, and then the mattress. below the latter

be a framework, and below the framework a receptacle about six inch

deep, five foot long, and three broad, fill with chain, iron

belt, wrist-lock, muffle, and screw-lock hobble, &c.; a regular

inquisition.



if Baker have descend from the kemble family, instead of rise from

nothing, he could not have act well. “Good Heavens!” cry he,

“where do these come from? they must have be leave here by the last

proprietor.”



Vane reply only by a look of contempt, and order Cooper to go and

ask Mr. Tollett to come to he.



Alfred improve the interval. “Sir,” say he, “all my delusion, fairly

test, will turn out like this.”



“they _shall_ be test, sir; I give you my word.”



Mr. Tollett come, and the two justice commence a genuine

scrutiny--their first. they go now upon the true method, in which all

these dark place ought to be inspect. they do not believe a word;

they suspect everything; they examine patient apart, detect

cruelty, filth and vermin under philanthropic phrase and clean linen;

and the upshot be they reprimand Baker and the attendant severely,

and tell he his licence should never be renew, unless at their

next visit the whole asylum be reform. they order all the iron

body-belt, chain, leg-lock, wrist-lock, and muff, to be put into

Mr. Tollett's carriage, and conclude a long inspection by inquire

into Alfred's sanity: at this inquiry they do not allow Baker to be

even present, but only Dr. Bailey.



first they read the order; and find it really be not Alfred's father

who have put he into the asylum. then they read the certificate,

especially Wycherley's. it accuse Alfred of headache, insomnia,

nightly vision, a rooted delusion (pecuniary), a sudden aversion to

an affectionate father; and at the doctor's last visit, a wild look

(formula), great excitement, and threat of violence without any

provocation to justify they. this overpower the worthy squire'

understanding to begin. but they proceed to examine the three book

an asylum have to keep by law: the visitor's book, the case book, and

the medical journal. all these be keep with the utmost looseness in

Silverton House as indeed they be in the very good of these place.

however, by combine the scanty notice in the several book, they

arrive at this total:



“admit April 11. have a very wild look, and be much excited.

attempt suicide by throw himself into a tank. attack the keeper

for rescue he, with prodigious strength and violence. refuse food.”



and some day after come an entry with his initial instead of his

name, which be contrary to law. “A. H. much excite. threat. order

composing draught.”



and a day or two after: “A. H. Excited. blasphemous. ordered blister.”



the first entry, however, be enough. the doctor have but see real

fact through his green spectacle, and lo! “suicide,” “homicide,” and

“refusal of food,” three cardinal point of true mania.



Mr. Vane ask Dr. Bailey whether he be well since he come.



“oh, infinitely well,” say Dr. Bailey. “we hope to cure he in a

month or two.”



they then send for Mrs. Archbold, and have a long talk with she,

recommend Alfred to her especial care: and, having act on his

judgment and information in the tooth of those who call he insane,

turn tail at a doctor's certificate; distrust their eyesight at an

unsworn affidavit.



Alfred be pack up his thing to go away; bright as a lark. Mrs.

Archbold come to he, and tell he she have order to give he every

comfort; and the justice hope to liberate he at their next visit.



the poor wretch turn pale. “at their next visit!” he cry, “what, not

to-day? when be their next visit?”



Mrs. Archbold hesitate: but at last she say, “why you know; I tell

you; they come four time every year.”



the disappointment be too bitter. the contemptible result of all his

patience, self-command, and success, be too heart-breaking. he groan

aloud. “and you can come with a smile and tell I that; you cruel

woman.” then he break down altogether and burst out cry. “you be

bear without a heart,” he sob.



Mrs. Archbold quiver at that. “I wish I have be,” say she, in a

strange, soft, move voice; then, cast an eloquent look of reproach

on he, she go away in visible agitation, and leave he sob. once

out of his sight she rush into another room, and there, take no more

notice of a gentle madwoman, its occupant, than of the bed or the table,

she sink into a chair, and, throw her head back with womanly abandon,

hide her hand upon her bosom that heave tempestuously.



and soon the tear trickle out of her imperious eye, and run

unrestrained.



the mind of Edith Archbold correspond with her powerful frame, and

bushy brow. inside this woman all be vigour: strong passion, strong

good sense to check or hide they; strong will to carry they out. and

between these mental force a powerful struggle be rage. she be

almost impenetrable to mere personal beauty, and incline to despise

early youth in the other sex; and six month spend with Alfred in a

quiet country house would probably have leave she reasonably indifferent

to he. but the first day she see he in Silverton House he break

through her guard, and pierce at once to her depth; first he terrify

she by dart through the window to escape: and terror be a passion.

so be pity; and never in her life have she overflow with it as when she

see he draw out of the tank and lay on the grass. if, after all, he

be as sane as he look, that brave high-spirited young creature, who

prefer death to the touch of coarse confine hand!



no soon have he fill she with dismay and pity, than he bound from

the ground before her eye and flee. she scream, and hope he would

escape; she could not help it. next she see he fight alone against

seven or eight, and with unheard-of prowess almost beat they. she sit

at the window panting, with clench tooth and hand, and wish he to

beat, and admire he, wonder at he. he yield, but not to they: to

she. all the compliment she have ever receive be tame compare with

this one. it thrill her vanity. he be like the man she have read of,

and never see: the young knight of chivalry. she glow all over at

he, and detect herself in time be frightened. her strong good sense

warn she to beware of this youth, who be nine year her junior, yet

have stir she to all her depth in an hour; and not to see he nor

think of he too much. accordingly she keep clear of he altogether at

first. pity soon put an end to that; and she protect and advise he,

but with a cold and lofty demeanour put on express. what with her kind

act and her cold manner he do not know what to make of she; and often

turn puzzle earnest eye upon she, as much as to say, be you really

my friend or not? once she forget herself and smile so tenderly in

answer to these implore eye, that his hope rise very high indeed. he

flatter himself she would let he out of the asylum before long. that

be all Julia's true lover think of.



a feeling hide, and not suppress, often grow fast in a vigorous

nature. Mrs. Archbold's fancy for Alfred be subject to this dangerous

treatment; and it smoulder, and smoulder, till from a _penchant_ it

warm to a fancy, from a fancy to a passion. but _penchant,_ fancy,

or passion, she hide it with such cunning and resolution, that neither

Alfred nor even those of her own sex see it; nor do a creature

even suspect it, except Nurse Hannah; but her eye be sharpen by

jealousy, for that muscular young virgin be begin to sigh for he

herself, with a gentle timidity that contrast prettily with her bicep

muscle and prowess against her own sex.



Mrs. Archbold have more passion than tenderness, but what woman be not

to be surprise and soften? when her young favourite, the great

fighter she have ever see, break down at the end of his gallant effort

and begin to cry like a girl, her bowel of compassion yearn within

she, and she long to cry with he. she only save herself from some

imprudence by flight, and have her cry alone. after a flow of tear, such

a woman be invincible; she treat Alfred at tea-time with remarkable

coldness and reserve. this piece of acting lead to unlooke-for

consequence: it embolden Cooper, who be rage against Alfred for

tell the justice, but have forbear from violence for fear of get

the house into a fresh scrape. he now go to the doctor, and ask

for a powerful drastic. Bailey give he two pill, or rather bolus,

contain croton oil--_inter alia;_ for Bailey be one of the

_farraginous_ fool of the unscientific science. arm with this weapon

of destruction, Cooper enter Alfred's bedroom at night, and order

he to take they: he refuse. Cooper whistle, and four attendant come.

Alfred know he should soon be powerless. he lose no time, spring at

Cooper, and with his long arm land a blow that knock he against the

wall, and in this position, where his body could not give, strike he

again with his whole soul, and cut his cheek right open. the next minute

he be pin, handcuffed, and in a straitjacket, after cripple one

assailant with a kick on the knee.



Cooper, half stun, and bleed like a pig, recover himself now,

and burn for revenge. he utter a frightful oath, and jump on

Alfred as he lie bound and powerless, and give he a lesson he never

forget.



every art have its secret: the attendant in such madhouse as this

have be for year possess of one they be too modest to reveal to

justice, commissioner, or the public; the art of break a man's

rib, or breast-bone, or both, without bruise he externally. the

convict at Toulon arrive at a similar result by another branch of the

art: they stuff the skin of a conger eel with powdered stone; then give

the obnoxious person a sly crack with it; and a rib backbone be break

with no contusion to mark the external violence use. but Mr. Cooper and

his fellow do their work with the knee-joint: it be round, and leave

no bruise. they subdue the patient by walk up and down he on their

knee. if they don't jump on he, as well as promenade he, the man's

spirit be often the only thing break; if they do, the man be apt to be

break bodily as well as mentally. thus die Mr. Sizer in 1854, and two

other quite recently. and how many more God only know: we cann't count

the stone at the bottom of a dark well.



Cooper then spring furiously on Alfred, and go kneel up and

down he. Cooper be a heavy man, and his weight crush and hurt the

victim's leg; but that be a trifle: as often as he kneel on Alfred's

chest, the crush one's whole framework seem give way, and he could

scarcely breathe. but Brown draw Cooper back by the collar, say,

“D'ye want to kill he?” and at this moment Mrs. Archbold, who be on

the watch, come in with Hannah and another nurse, and the three woman at

a word from their leader pin Cooper simultaneously, and, take

he at a disadvantage, handcuff he in a moment with a strength,

sharpness, skill, and determination not to be find in woman out of a

madhouse--luckily for the newspaper husband.



the other keeper look astounded at this masterstroke; but, as

no servant have ever affront Mrs. Archbold without be dismiss

directly, they take their cue and say, “we advise he, ma'am, but he

would not listen to we.”



“Cooper,” say Mrs. Archbold as soon as she recover her breath, “you

be not fit for your place. to-morrow you go, or I go.”



Cooper, cow in a moment by the handcuff, begin to whine and say that

it be all Alfred's fault.



but Mrs. Archbold be now carry away by two passion instead of one,

and they be together too much for prudence. she take a handful of

glossy lock out of her bosom and shake they in Cooper's face.



“you monster!” say she; “you should go, for _that,_ if you be my own

brother.”



the two young nurse assent loudly, and turn and cackle at Cooper

for cut off such lovely hair.



he shrug his shoulder at they, and say sulkily to Mrs. Archbold,

“oh, I don't know. of course, if you have fall in love with he, my

cake be burn. 'Tisn't the first lunatic you have take a fancy to.”



at this brutal speech, all the more intolerable for not be quite

false, Mrs. Archbold turn ashy pale, and look round for a weapon to

strike he dead; but find none so handy and so deadly as her tongue.



“it's not the first you have try to murder,” say she. “I know all

about that death in Calton Retreat: you keep it dark before the coroner;

but it be not too late, I'll open the world's eye. I be only go to

dismiss you, sir: but you have insult I. I'll hang you in reply.”



Cooper turn very pale and be silent; his tongue clove to the roof of

his mouth.



but a feeble, unexpected voice issue from the bed and murmur

cheerfully, though with some difficulty, a single word--



“Justice!”



at an expression so out of place they all start with surprise.



Alfred go on: “you be put the saddle on the wrong horse. the

fault lie with those villain Baker and Bailey. Cooper be only a

servant, you know, and obey order.”



“what business have the wretch to cut your hair off?” say Mrs. Archbold,

turn on Alfred with flash eye. her blood once up, she be ready

to quarrel even with he for take part against himself.



“because he be order to put on a blister, and hair must come off

before a blister can go on,” reply Alfred soberly.



“that be no excuse for he beat you and try to break your front

tooth.”



she don't mind so much about his side rib.



“no,” reply Alfred. “but I hit he first: look at the bloke's face.

Dear Mrs. Archbold, you be my good friend in this horrid place, and you

have beautiful eye; and, talk of tooth, look at your! but you haven't

much sense of justice, forgive I for say so. put the proposition

into sign; there be nothing like that for clear away prejudice. B.

and C. have a scrimmage: b begin it, C. get the bad of it; in come

A. and turn away--C. be that justice? it be I you ought to turn away;

and I wish to Heaven you would: dear Mrs. Archbold, do pray turn I

away, and keep the other blackguard.”



at this extraordinary and, if I may be allow the expression, alfredian

speech, the man first stare, and then laugh; the woman smile, and

then be nearer cry than laugh.



and so it be, that justice handcuff, straitjackete, blister, and

impartial, send from its bed of torture a beam through Cooper's tough

hide to his inner heart. he hang his head and step towards Alfred:

“you're what I call a man,” he say. “I don't care a curse whether I

stay or go, after what she have say to I. but, come what may, you're a

gentleman, and one as can put hisself in a poor man's place. why, sir, I

ben't always so rough; but I have be twenty year at it; and mad folk

they'd wear the patience out of Jove, and the milk of human kindness

out of saint and opossum. however, if I be to stay here all my life,

instead of go to-morrow, I'd never lift hand to trouble you again,

for you take my part again yourself like that.”



“I'll put that to the test,” say Mrs. Archbold sharply. “stay--on your

probation. Hannah!”



and baby-face bicep at a look take off his handcuff; which she have

be prominent in put on.



this extraordinary scene end in the man be dismiss, and the woman

remain and go to work after their kind.



“the bed be too short for one thing,” say Hannah. “look at his poor

foot stick out and cold as a stone: just feel of they, Jane.”



“no, no; murder!” cry Alfred; “that tickle.”



Hannah run for a chair, Jane for another pillow. Mrs. Archbold take off

his handcuff, and, pass her hand softly and caressingly over his

head, lament the loss of his poor hair. amongst they they relieve

he of his straitjacket, set up his head, cover his foot, and he

sleep like a top for want of drastic and opiate, and in spite of some

brilliant charge by the lilliputian cavalry.



after this the attendant never molest Alfred again; nor do the

doctor; for Mrs. Archbold get his bolus, and send they up to a famous

analyse chemist in London, and tell he she have; and say, “I'll thank

you not to prescribe at random for _that_ patient any more.” he take the

lady's prescription, come as it do in a voice quietly grim, and with

a momentary but wicked glance shoot from under her black brow.



Alfred be all the more miserable at his confinement: his melancholy

deepen now there be no fighting to excite he. a handsome bright

young face cloud with sadness be very pitiable, and I need not say

that both the woman who have fall in love with he have their eye,

or at least the tail of their eye, for ever on his face. the result

varied with the character of the watcher. that young face, ever sad,

make Mrs. Archbold sigh, and long to make he happy under her wing. how

it work on the purer and more womanly Hannah will be reveal by the

incident I have to relate. Alfred be sit on a bench in the corridor

bow down by grief, and the Archbold lurk in a room hard by,

feast her eye on he through an aperture in the door cause by the

inspection plate be under repair--when an erotic maniac be drive

past. she have obtain access--with marvellous cunning--to the man's

side; but be now come back with a flea in her ear, and fast than

she go; be handcuff and propel by baby-face bicep. on pass

the disconsolate Alfred the latter eye he coyly, give her stray sheep

a coarse push--as one push a _thing_--and lay a timid hand, gentle as

fall down, upon the rougher sex. contrast sudden and funny.



“don't be so sad, sir,” she murmur, coo like the gentle of dove.

“I cann't bear to see you look like that.”



Alfred look up, and meet she full with his mournful honest eye. “ah,

Hannah, how can I be anything but sad, imprison here, sane amongst the

mad?”



“well, and so be I, sir; so be Mrs. Archbold herself.”



“ay, but you have not be entrap, imprison on your wedding-day. I

cannot even get a word send to my Julia, my wife that ought to be. only

think of the affront they have make I put on she I love well, ten

time well, than myself. why, she must have be wait for I;

humiliate perhaps by my absence. what will she think of I? the rogue

will tell she a thousand lie: she be very high spirit, Hannah,

impetuous like myself, only so gentle and so good. oh, my angel, my

angel; I shall lose you for ever.”



Hannah clasp her hand, with tear in her eye: “no, no,” she cry;

“it be a burn shame to part true lover like you and she. hush! speak

low. Brown tell I you be as well as he be.”



“God bless he for it, then.”



“you have get money, they say; try it on with Brown.”



“I will. oh you darle. what be the matter?”



for Baby-face be begin to whimper.



“oh, nothing, sir; only you be so glad to go; and we shall be sorry to

part with you: but you willn't care for that--oh! oh! oh!”



“what, do you think I shall forget you and your kindness? never: I'll

square account with friend and foe; not one shall be forget.”



“don't offer I any of your money,” sob Hannah, “for I wouldn't touch

it. good-bye,” say she: “I shalln't have as much as a kiss for it I'll be

bind: good-bye,” say she again, and never move.



“oh, willn't you, though,” cry Alfred gaily. “what be that? and that?

and that? now, what on earth be you cry about? dry your tear, you

dear good-hearted girl: no, I'll dry they for you.”



he take out a white handkerchief and dry her cheek gently for she,

and give she a parting kiss. but the Archbold's patience be exhaust:

a door open nearly opposite, and there she stand yellow with jealousy

and sombre as night with her ebon brow. at sight of this lower

figure Hannah utter a squawk, and flee with cheek red as fire.

Alfred, not aware of Mrs. Archbold's smoulder passion, and little

dream that jealous anguish and rage stand incarnate before he, burst

out laugh like a mischievous boy! on this she sweep upon he, and

take he by both shoulder, and awe he with she lower brow close

to his. “you ungrateful wretch,” she say violently, and pant.



his colour rise. “ungrateful? that I be not madam. why do you call I

so?”



“you be--you be. what have I do to you that you run from I to the

very servant? however, she shall be pack off this very night, and you

to thank for it.”



this be the way to wound the generous youth. “now it be you that be

ungenerous,” he say. “what harm have the poor girl do? she have a

virtuous movement and pity I for the heartless fraud I suffer by;

that be all. pray, do you never pity I?”



“be it this virtuous movement set she kiss you?” say the Archbold,

clench her tooth as if the word sting she, like the sight.



“she don't, now,” say Alfred; “it be I kiss she.”



“and yet you pretend to love your Julia so truly?”



“this be no place for that sacred name, madam. but be sure I have no

secret from she, and kiss nobody she would not kiss herself.”



“she must be a very accommodating young lady.”



at this insult Alfred rise pale with anger, and be about to defy his

monitor mortally; but the quick-witted woman see and disarm he. in

one moment, before ever he could speak, she be a transformed creature,

a penitent; she put her hand together supplicatingly, and murmured--



“I don't mean it; I respect _she;_ and your love for she; forgive I,

Alfred: I be so unhappy, oh forgive I.”



and behold she hold his hand between her soft, burn palm, and her

proud head sink languidly on his shoulder, and the inevitable tear run

gently.



moral apart, it be glorious love-making.



“bother the woman,” think Alfred.



“promise I not to do it again,” she murmur, “and the girl shall

stay.”



“oh, lord, yes, I promise; though I cann't see what it matter to you.”



“not much, cruel boy, alas! but it matter to she; for----” she kiss

Alfred's hand gently, and rise to her foot and move away; but at

the second step turn her head sudden as a bird and finish she

sentence--“if you kiss she before I, I shall kill she before you.”



here be a fresh complication! the man have leave off blister,

torturing, and bully he; but his guardian angel, the woman, be

turn up their sleeve to pull cap over he, and plenty of the random

scratch would fall on he. if anything could have make he pine more

to be out of the horrid place, this voluptuous prospect would. he hunt

everywhere for Brown. but he be away the day with a patient. at

night he lie awake for a long time, think how he should open the

negotiation. he shrink from it. he feel a delicacy about bribe

Beelzebub's servant to betray he.



as Hannah have originate the idea, he think he might very well ask she

to do the dirty work of bribe Brown, and he would pay she for it; only

in money, not kiss. with this resolution he sink to sleep, and his

spirit break prison: he stand with Julia before the altar, and the

priest make they one. then the church and the company and daylight

disappear, and her own sweet low move voice come thrill, “my own,

own, own,” she murmur. “I love you ten time more for all you have

endure for I;” and with this her sweet lip settle on his like the

dew.



impartial sleep fly at the step of the scaffold and the gate of

elysium: so Alfred awake at the above; but doubt whether he be quite

awake; for two velvet lip seem to be still touch his. he stir,

and somebody be go like the wind, with a rustle of fly petticoat,

and his door shut in a moment. it close with a catch-lock; this

dastardly vision have open it with her key, and leave it open to make

good her retreat if he should awake. Alfred sit up in bed indignant, and

somewhat fluttered. “confound her impudence,” say he. but there be

no help for it; he grin and bear it, as he have the blister, and

bolus, &c., roll the clothe round his shoulder, and off to the

sleep of the just again. not so the passionate hypocrite, who, madden

by a paroxysm of jealousy, have take this cowardly advantage of a

prisoner. she have suck fresh poison from those honest lip, and fill

her vein with molten fire. she toss and turn the livelong night in

a high fever of passion, nor be the cold chill want of shame and

fear at what she have do.



in the morning, Alfred remember this substantial vision, and

determine to find out which of those two it be. “I shall know by her

look,” say he; “she willn't be able to meet my eye.” well, the first

he see be Mrs. Archbold. she meet his eye full with a mild and pensive

dignity. “come, it be not you,” think Alfred. presently he fall

in with Hannah. she wear a serene, infantine face, the picture of

unobtrusive modesty. Alfred be dumbfoundere. “it's not this one,

either,” say he. “but then, it must. confound her impudence for look

so modest.” however, he do not speak to she; he be look out for

a face that interest he far more: the weather-beat countenance of

Giles Brown. he see he once or twice, but could not get he alone till

the afternoon. he invite he into his room: and when he get he there,

lose no time. “just look I in the face, Brown,” say he quietly. Brown

look he in the face.



“now, sir, be I mad or sane?”



Brown turn his head away. Alfred laugh. “no, no, none of your

trick, old fellow: look I in the face while you answer.”



the man colour. “I cann't look a gentleman like you in the face, and

tell he he be mad.”



“I should think not. well, now; what shall I give you to help I

escape?”



“hush! don't mention that, sir; it's as much as my place be worth even

to listen to you.”



“well! then I must give you as much as your place be worth. please to

calculate that, and name the figure.”



“my place! I wouldn't lose it for a hundred pound.”



“exactly. then I'll give you a hundred guineas.”



“and how be I to get my money, sir?”



“the first time you be out, come to Albion Villa, in Barkington, and

I'll have it all ready for you.”



“and suppose you be to say, 'no: you don't ought ever to have be

confine'?”



“I must trouble you to look in my face again, Mr. Brown. now, do you see

treason, bad faith, avarice, ingratitude, rascality in it?”



“not a grain of 'em,” say Brown, with an accent of conviction. “well,

now, I'll tell you the truth; I can read a gent by this time: and I'm no

more afeared for the money than if I have it in my hand. but ye see, my

stomach willn't let I do it.”



this be a sad disappointment; so sudden, too. “your stomach?” say

Alfred ruefully. “'what do you mean?”



“ay, my stomach. wouldn't _your_ stomach rise against serve a man that

have do you the bad turn one man can do another--be and rob you

of your sweetheart?”



Alfred stare with amazement.



Brown continue, and now with some emotion: “Hannah Blake and I be

very good friend till you come, and I be think of ask she to

name the day; but now she willn't look at I. 'don't come tease I,'

say she, 'I be meat for your master.' it's you that have turn the

girl's head, sir.”



“bother the woman!” say Alfred cordially. “oh, what plague they be!

and how unjust _you_ be, to spite I for the fault of another. can I

help the fool from spoon upon I?” he reflect a moment then burst

out: “Brown, you be a duffer, a regular duffer. what, don't you see

your game be to get I out of the place? if you do, in forty-eight hour

I shall be married to my Julia, and that dumple-face girl will be

cure. but if you keep I here, by Gee, sir, I'll make hot love to your

Hannah, boil hot, hot than ever be--out of the isle of Greece.

oh do help I out, and I'll give you the hundred pound, and I'll give

Hannah another hundred pound, on condition she marry you: and, if she

willn't marry you, she shalln't have a farthing, only a good hiding.”



Brown be overpower by his maniac's logic. “you have a head,” say he;

“there's my hand; I'll go in, if I die for it.”



they now put their head together over the mean. Brown's plan be to

wait, and wait, for an opportunity. Alfred's be to make one this very

night.



“but how can I?” say Brown. “I shalln't have the key of your room. I be

not on watch in your part to-night.”



“borrow Hannah's.”



“Hannah's? she have get no key of the male patient room.”



“oh yes, she have; of mine, at all event.”



“what make you think that, sir?” say Brown suspiciously.



Alfred don't know what to say: he could not tell he why he feel sure

she have a key.



“just go quietly and ask she for it” say he: “don't tell she I send

you, now.”



Brown obey, and return in half-an-hour with the key of the vacant

bedroom, where the hobble and chain be hide on the arrival of the

justice.



she tell I this be the only key she have of any room in this corridor.

“but dear heart,” say Brown, “how quicksighte the woman be. she say,

say she, 'if it be to bring sorrowful true lover together again,

gile, or the like of that I'll try and get the key you want off Mrs.

Archbold's bunch, though I get the sack for it,' say she. 'I know she

heave they in the parlour at night' say Hannah. she be a trump, you

must allow.”



Alfred colour up. he suspect he have be unjust.



“she be a good, kind, single-hearted girl,” say he; “and neither of you

shall find I ungrateful.”



it be evident by the alacrity Brown now show, that he have get his

order from Hannah.



it be agree that Alfred should be down at night in his clothe, ready

to seize the right moment; that Hannah should get the key, and watch the

coast clear, and let he out into the corridor; and Brown get he down

by a back stair, and out on the lawn, there he would find a ladder

close by the wall, and his own arm and leg must do the rest.



and now Alfred be a change creature: his eye sparkle; he walk on

air, and already sniff the air of liberty.



after tea Brown bring in some newspaper, and make Alfred a signal,

previously agree on, that the ladder be under the east wall. he go

to bed early, put on his tweed shooting-jacket and trouser, and lie

listen to the clock with beat heart.



at first, foot pass to and fro from time to time. these become less

frequent as the night wear on.



presently a light foot pass, stop at the door, and make a sharp

scratch on it with some metal instrument.



it be the key. the time be not ripe to use it, but good Hannah have

take this way to let he know she have get it.



this little scratch outside his door, oh it make his heart leap and

thrill. one great difficulty be overcome. he wait, and wait, but

with glow, hopeful heart; and at last a foot come swiftly, the key

turn, and Hannah open the door. she have a bull's-eye lantern.



“take your shoe in your hand,” she whisper, “and follow I.”



he follow she. she lead he in and out, to the door of the public room

belong to the second-class patient. then she draw her whistle, and

breathe very softly. Brown answer as softly from the other end. he

be wait at the opposite door.



“all right,” say she; “the dangerous part be over.” she put a key into

the door, and say very softly, “good-bye.”



“God bless you, Hannah,” say Alfred, with deep emotion. “God in heaven

bless you for this!”



“he will, he do,” say the single-hearted girl, and put she other hand

to her breast with a great gulp. she open the door slowly. “good-bye,

dear. I shall never see you again.”



and so these two part; for Hannah could not bear the sight of gile

at that moment. he be welcome to Alfred, though, most welcome, and

conduct he by devious way to the kitchen, lantern in hand.



he open the kitchen door softly, and see two burly stranger seat

at the table, eat with all their soul, and Mrs. Archbold stand

before the fire, but look towards he: for she have hear his

footstep ever so far off.



the man look up, and see Alfred. they rise to their foot, and say,

“this will be the gentleman, madam?”



“yes,” say Mrs. Archbold.



“your servant, sir,” say the man very civilly. “if you be ready we

be.”











CHAPTER XXXIV



SAMPSON'S placard be on Barkington wall, and inside the asylum Alfred

be soften heart and buy conscience, as relate; so, in fact, he

have two string to his bow.



but mark how strangely thing turn; these two string get entangle. his

father, alarm by the placard, have call at the pawnbroker's shop, and

tell he he must move Alfred directly to a London asylum. Baker raise

objection; Mr. Hardie crush they with his purse, _i.e.,_ with his

son's and victim's sweetheart's father's money. so then, as Baker after

all could not resist the project, but only postpone it for a day or two,

he prefer to take a handsome present, and cooperate. he even connive

at Mr. Hardie's sign the requisite name to the new order. this the

giddy world call forgery; but, in these calm retreat, far from the

public's inquisitive eye, it go for nothing. why, Mrs. Archbold have

sign Baker's name and Dr. Bailey's more than a hundred several time

to order, statement, and certificate; deprive englishman of their

liberty and their property with a gesture of her taper finger;

and vent the conventional term, “aberration,” “exaltation,”

 “Depression,” “debility,” “paralysis,” “excitable,” “Abnormal,” as

boldly and blindly as any male starle in the flock.



on the very night, then, of Alfred's project escape, two keeper come

down from Dr. Wycherley's asylum to Silverton station: Baker meet they

and drive they to Silverton House in his dog-cart. they be to take

Alfred up by the night train; and, when he come into the kitchen with

Brown, they suspect nothing, nor do Baker or Cooper, who presently

emerge from the back kitchen. Brown saw, and recover his wit

partially. “shall I go for his portmanteau, sir?” stammer he, make

a shrewd and fortunate guess at what be up. Baker assent; and soon

after go out to get the horse harness. on this Mrs. Archbold, pale,

sorrowful, and silent hitherto, beckon Alfred into the back kitchen,

and there give he his watch and his loose money. “I take care of they

for you,” say she; “for the like have often be steal in this place.

put the money in your shoe; it may be useful to you.”



he thank she somewhat sullenly; for his disappointment be so deep and

bitter that small kindness almost irritate he.



she sigh. “it be cruel to be angry with _I,_” she say: “I be not the

cause of this; it be a heavy blow to I than to you. soon or

later you will be free--and then you will not waste a thought on I, I

fear--but I must remain in this odious prison without your eye and your

smile to lighten I, yet unable to forget you. oh, Alfred, for mercy's

sake, whisper I one kind word at parting; give I one kind look to

remember and dote upon.”



she put out both hand as eloquently as she speak, and overpower his

prudence so far that he take she offer hand--they be as cold now as

they be burn hot the last time--and press they, and said--



“I shall be grateful to you while I live.”



the passionate woman snatch her hand away. “Gratitude be too cold for

I,” she cry; “I scorn even your. love I or hate I.”



he make no reply. and so they part.



“will you pledge your honour to make no attempt at escape on the road?”

 ask the pawnbroker on his return.



“I'll see you d----d first,” reply the prisoner.



on this he be handcuffed, and help into the dog-cart.



they go up to town by the midnight train; but, to Alfred's

astonishment and delight do not take a carriage to themselves.



however, station after station be pass, and nobody come into their

carriage. at last they stop at a large station, and a good many

people be on the platform: Alfred take this opportunity and appeal

in gentle but move term to the first good and intelligent face he

see. “Sir,” say he, “I implore your assistance.”



the gentleman turn courteously to he. the keeper, to Alfred's

surprise, do not interrupt.



“I be the victim of a conspiracy, sir; they pretend I be mad: and be

take I by force to a madhouse, a live tomb.”



“you certainly don't appear to be mad,” say the gentleman.



the head keeper instantly show he the order and a copy of the

certificate.



“don't look at _they,_ sir,” cry Alfred; “they be sign by man who

be bribe to sign they. for pity's sake, sir, judge for yourself. test

my memory, my judgment, by any question you please. use your own good

sense; don't let those venal rogue judge for you.”



the gentleman turn cold directly.



“I could not take on I to interfere,” say he. the unsworn affidavit

have overpower his sense. he retire with a frigid inclination. Alfred

wring his handcuffed hand, and the connect chain rattle.



the man never complain: his conduct be natural; and they know their

strength. at the next station he test a snob's humanity instead of a

gentleman's. he have hear they be more tender-hearted. the answer be

a broad grin, repeat at interval.



be call mad be pretty much the same thing as be mad to a mind

of this class: and Alfred have admit he be call mad.



at the next station he implore a silvery-haired old gentleman. old age,

he have hear, have know grief, and learn pity.



the keeper show the certificate.



“ah!” say Senex; “poor young man. now don't agitate yourself. it be

all for your good. pray go quietly. very painful, very painful.” and

he hobble away as fast as he could. it be by shirk the painful some

live to be silvery old.



next he try a policeman. Bobby listen to he erect as a dart.



the certificate be show he.



he eye they and say sharply, “all right.” nor could Alfred's

entreaty and appeal to common sense attract a word or even a look

from he. Alfred cry “help! murder! if you be Englishmen, if you be

Christians, help I.”



this soon draw a crowd round he, listen to his fiery tale of wrong,

and cry “Shame, shame! let he go.” the keeper touch their head,

wink, and get out and show the certificate; the crowd melt away

like wax before those two sun of evidence (unsworn). the train move

on.



it be appalling. how could he ever get free? between his mind and that

of his fellow there lie a spiritual barrier more impassible than the

wall of fortified city.



yet, at the very next station, with characteristic tenacity of purpose,

he try again; for he see a woman stand near, a buxom country woman

of forty. then he remember that the Naked Eye be not yet an extinct

institution among her sex. he tell she his tale, and implore she to use

her own eye. she seem strike, and do eye he far more closely

than the man have: and tell the keeper they ought to be ashamed of

themselves; he be no madman, for she have see madman. they show she

the certificate.



“oh, I be no scholar!” say she contemptuously; “ye cann't write my two

eye out of my head.”



the keeper whip off Alfred's cap and show his shaven crown.



“La! so he be,” say she, lower her tone; “dear heart, what a pity.

and such a pretty young gentleman.” and after that all he could say only

draw the dew of patient pity to her eye.



the train go on, and leave she stand there, a statue of negative

clemency. Alfred lose heart. he feel how impotent he be. “I shall

die in a madhouse,” he say. he shiver in a corner, hate man, and

doubt God.



they reach Dr. Wycherley's early in the morning. Alfred be show into

a nice clean bedroom, and ask whether he would like to bathe or sleep.

“oh, a bath,” he say; and be allow to bathe himself. he have not be

long in the water when Dr. Wycherley's medical assistant tap at the

door, and then enter without further ceremony--a young gentleman with

a longish down on his chin, which, initiate early in the secret

of physiology, he be too know to shave off and so go to meet his

trouble. he come in look like a machine, with a note-book in his

hand, and stand by the bath side dictating note to himself and jot

they down.



“six contusion: two on the thorax, one on the abdomen, two on the

thigh, one near the patella; turn, please.” Alfred turn in the water.

“a slight dorsal abrasion; also of the wrist; a severe excoriation of

the ankle. leg-lock, eh?”



“yes.”



“iron leg-lock. Head shave. large blister. good! any other injury

external or internal under old system?”



“yes, sir, confine as a madman though sane, as _you,_ I be sure, have

the sense to see.”



“oh, never mind that; we be all sane here--except the governor and I.”



he whip out, and enter the condition of the new patient's body with

jealous minuteness in the case-book. as for his mind, he make no inquiry

into that: indeed he be little qualified for research of the kind.



at breakfast Alfred sit with a number of mad lady and gentleman, who

by firmness, kindness, and routine, have be lead into excellent habit:

the linen be clean and the food good. he make an excellent meal,

and set about escape: with this view he explore the place. nobody

interfere with he; but plenty of eye watch he. the house be on

the non-restraint system. he soon find this system be as bad for

he as it be good for the insane. non-restraint imply a great many

attendant, and constant vigilance. moreover, the door be strong, the

window open only eight inch, and that from the top: their framework

be iron, paint like wood, &c. it be next to impossible to get

into the yard at night: and then it look quite impossible to get any

far, for the house be encompass by high wall.



he resign all hope of escape without connivance. he sound a keeper;

the man fire at the first word. “come, none of that, sir; you should

know well than tempt a poor man.”



Alfred colour to the eye and sigh deeply. to have honour throw

in his face, and make the reason for not aid he to baffle a

dishonourable conspiracy! but he take the reproof so sweetly, the

man be touch, and by-and-bye, see he deeply deject, say

good-naturedly, “don't be down on your luck, sir. if you be really

well, which you don't look to have much the matter now, why not write

to the Commissioners and ask to be let out?”



“because my letter will be intercept.”



“ay, to your friend; but not to the Commissioners of Lunacy. not in

this house, any way.”



“God bless you!” cry Alfred impetuously. “you be my benefactor; you

be an honest fellow; give I your hand.”



“well, why not? only you mustn't excite yourself. take it easy.”

 (Formula.)



“oh, no cannot among friend!” say Alfred: “wouldn't you be excited at

the hope of get out of prison?”



“well, I don't know but I might. bound I be as sick of it as you be.”



Alfred get paper and sketch the letter on which so much depend.

it take he six hour. he tear up two; he cool down the third, and

condense it severely: by this mean, after much thought, he produce

a close and tell composition. he also weed it of every trait and

every term he have observe in mad people's talk, or the letter they

have show he. so there be no incoherency, no heat, no prolixity, no

“spy,” no “conspiracy,” no italic. a simple, honest, earnest story,

with bitter truth stamp on every line; a sober, strong appeal from a

sore heart but hard head to the arbiter of his fate.



to the good of my belief no madman, however slightly touch, or however

cunning, ever write a letter so gentle yet strong, so earnest yet calm,

so short yet full, and withal so lucid and cleanly joint as this be.

and I be no contemptible judge; for I have accumulate during the last

few year a large collection of letter from person derange in

various degree, and study they minutely, more minutely than most

Psychologicals study anything but Pounds, Shillings, and verbiage.



the letter go, and he hope but scarcely expect an answer by return

of post. it do not come. he say to his heart, “be still;” and wait.

another day go by; and another: he gnaw his heart and wait: he

pine, and wait on. the Secret Tribunal, which be all a shallow

legislature have leave he, “take it easy.” secret Tribunals always do.



but, while the victim-suitor long and pine and languish for one

sound from the voice of Justice and Humanity, and while the Secret

Tribunal, not be in prison itself all this time, “take it easy,”

 event occur at Barkington that bade fair to throw open the prison

door and bring father and son, bride and bridegroom, together again

under one roof.



but at what a price.











CHAPTER XXXV



AT sight of Sampson's placard Mr. Hardie be seize with a tremor that

suspend the razor in mid air: he open the window, and glare at the

doctor's notice.



at this moment he himself be a picture: not unlike those half clean

portrait the picture restorer hang out as specimen of their art.



“insolent interfere fool,” he mutter, and begin to walk the room in

agitation. after a while he make a strong effort, shave the other half,

and dress slowly, think hard all the time. the result be, he go

out before breakfast (which he have not do for year), and visit Mr.

Baker--for what purpose have be already show.



on his return, Jane be wait breakfast. the first word to he be:

“Papa, have you see?”



“what, the Reward!” say he indifferently. “yes, I notice it at our

door as I come home.”



Jane say it be a very improper and most indelicate interference in

their affair, and go on to say with heighten colour: “I have just

tell Peggy to take it down.



“not for the world!” cry Mr. Hardie, lose all his calmness real or

feign; and he ring the bell hastily. on Peggy's appear, he say

anxiously, “I do not wish that Notice interfere with.”



“I shouldn't think of touch it without your order, sir,” say she

quietly, and shoot he a feline glance from under her pale lash.



Jane colour, and look a little mortify: but on Peggy's retire,

Mr. Hardie explain that, whether judicious or not, it be a friendly

act of Dr. Sampson's; and to pull down his notice would look like side

with the boy against those he have injure: “besides,” say he, “why

should you and I burk inquiry? Ill as he have use I, I be his father,

and not altogether without anxiety. suppose those doctor should be

right about he, you know?”



Jane have for some time be long to call at Albion Villa and

sympathise with her friend; and now curiosity be superadde: she burn

to know whether the Dodds know of or approve this placard. she ask

her father whether he think she could go there with propriety. “why

not?” say he cheerfully, and with assume carelessness.



in reality it be essential to he that Jane should visit the Dodds.

surround by pitfall, threaten with a new and mysterious assailant

in the eccentric, but keen and resolute Sampson, this artful man, who

have now become a very machiavel--constant danger and deceit have so

sharpen and deepen his great natural ability--be prepare

amongst other defence a shield; and that shield be a sieve; and that

sieve be his daughter. in fact, ever since his return, he have act

and speak at the Dodds through Jane, but with a masterly appearance of

simplicity and mere confidential intercourse. at least I think this be

the true clue to all his recent remark.



Jane, a truthful, unsuspicious girl, be all the fitter instrument

of the cunning monster. she go and call at Albion Villa, and be

receive by Edward, Mrs. Dodd be upstairs with Julia, and in five

minute she have tell he what her father, she own, have say to she

in confidence. “but,” say she, “the reason I repeat these thing be to

make peace, and that you may not fancy there be any one in our house so

cruel, so unchristian, as to approve Alfred's perfidy. oh, and papa say

candidly he dislike the match, but then he dislike this way of end

it far more.”



Mrs. Dodd come down in due course, and kiss she; but tell she Julia

could not see even she at present. “I think, dear,” say she, “in a day

or two she will see you; but no one else: and for her sake we shall now

hurry our departure from this place, where she be once so happy.”



Mrs. Dodd do not like to begin about Alfred; but Jane have no such

scruple; she inveigh warmly against his conduct, and ere she leave

the house, have quite do away with the faint suspicion Sampson have

engender, and bring both Mrs. Dodd and Edward back to their original

opinion that the eld Hardie have nothing on earth to do with the

perfidy of the young.



just before dinner a gentleman call on Edward, and prove to be a

policeman in plain clothe. he have be send from the office to sound

the ostler at the “White Lion,” and, if necessary, to threaten he. the

police know, though nobody else in Barkington do, that this ostler have

be in what rogue call trouble, twice, and, as the police can starve

a man of the kind by blow on he, and can reward he by keep dark,

he know well than withhold information from they.



however, on look for this ostler, he have leave his place that very

morning; have decamp with mysterious suddenness.



here be a puzzle.



have the man go without notice the reward? have somebody outbid the

reward? or be it a strange coincidence, and do he after all know

nothing?



the police think it be no coincidence, and he do know something; so

they have telegraph to the London office to mark he down.



Edward thank his visitor; but, on his retiring, tell his mother he

could make neither head nor tail of it; and she only say, “we seem

surround by mystery.”



meantime, unknown to these bewildered one, Greek be meet Greek only

a few yard off.



Mr. Hardie be be undermine by a man of his own calibre, one too

cautious to communicate with the Dodds, or any one else, till his work

look ripe.



the game begin thus: a decent mechanic, who lodge hard by, lounge

with his pipe near the gate of Musgrove Cottage, offer to converse

with old Betty. she give he a rough answer; but with a touch of

ineradicable vanity must ask Peggy if she want a sweetheart, because

there be a hungry one at the gate: “why: he want to begin on an old

woman like I.” Peggy inquire what he have say to she.



“oh, he begin where most of they end--if they get so far at all: axe

I be I comfortable here; if not, he know a young man want a nice

tidy body to keep house for he.”



Peggy prick up her ear; and, in less than a quarter of an hour, go

for a box of lucifer in a new bonnet and clean collar. she trip past

the able mechanic very accidentally, and he bestow an admire smile

on she, but say nothing--only smoke. however, on her return, he

contrive to detain she, and pay she a good many compliment, which she

take laughingly and with no great appearance of believe they. however,

there be no go by that: compliment sink: and within forty-eight

hour the able mechanic have become a hot wooer of Peggy Black, always on

the look-out for her day and night, and tell she all about the lump

of money he have save, and how he could double his income, if he have but

a counter, and tidy wife behind it. Peggy gossip in turn, and let out

amongst the rest that she have be turn off once, just for answer

a little sharply; and now it be the other way; her master be a trifle

too civil at time.



“who could help it?” say the able mechanic rapturously; and offer a

press civility, which Peggy fight off.



“not so free, young man,” say she. “kiss be the prologue to sin.”



“how do you know that?” inquire the able mechanic, with the sly humour

of his class.



“it be a saying,” reply Peggy demurely.



at last, one night, Mr. Green the detective, for he it be, put his arm

round his new sweetheart's waist, and approach the subject near his

heart. he tell she he have just find out there be money enough to be

make in one day to set they up for life in a nice little shop; and she

could help in it.



after this invite preamble, he creep towards the L. 14,000 by artful

question; and soon elicit that there have be high word between

Master and Mr. Alfred about that very sum: she have listen at the

door and hear. take care to combine close courtship with cunning

interrogatory, he be soon enable to write to Dr. Sampson, and say

that a servant of Mr. Hardie's be down on he, and report that he

carry a large pocket-book in his breast-pocket by day; and she have

find the dent of it under his pillow at night--a stroke of observation

very creditable in an unprofessional female: on this he have make it

his business to meet Mr. Hardie in broad day, and sure enough the

pocket-book be always there. he add, that the say Hardie's face wear

an expression which he have see more than once when respectable party

go in for felony: and altogether think they might now take out a

warrant and proceed in the regular way.



Sampson receive this news with great satisfaction: but be cripple by

the interwoven relation of the party.



to arrest Mr. Hardie on a warrant would entail a prosecution for felony,

and separate Jane and Edward for ever.



he telegraph Green to meet he at the station; and reach Barkington

at eight that very evening. Green and he proceed to Albion Villa,

and there they hold a long and earnest consultation with Edward; and at

last, on certain condition, Mr. Green and Edward consent to act on

Sampson's plan. Green, by this time, know all Mr. Hardie's out-of-door

habit; and assure they that at ten o'clock he would walk up and down

the road for at least half an hour, the night be dry. it want about

a quarter to ten, when Mrs. Dodd come down, and propose supper to the

traveller. Sampson decline it for the present; and say they have

work to do at eleven. then, make the other a signal not to disclose

anything at present he draw she aside and ask after Julia.



Mrs. Dodd sighed--“She go from one thing to another, but always

return to one idea; that he be a victim, not a traitor.”



“well, tell she in one hour the money shall be in the house.”



“the money! what do she care?”



“well, say we shall know all about Alfred by eleven o'clock.”



“my dear friend, be prudent,” say Mrs. Dodd. “I feel alarmed: you be

speak almost in a whisper when I come in.”



“Y' be very obsairvant: but dawnt be uneasy; we be three to one. just

go and comfort Miss Julee with my message.”



“ah, that I will,” she say.



she be no soon go than they all steal out into the night, and a

pitch dark night it be; but Green have a powerful dark lantern to use if

necessary.



they wait, Green at the gate of Musgrove Cottage, the other two a

little way up the road.



ten o'clock strike. some minute pass without the expect signal from

Green; and Edward and Sampson begin to shiver. for it be very cold and

dark, and in the next place they be honest man go to take the law

into their own hand and the law sometimes call that break the law.

“confound he!” mutter Sampson; “if he do not soon come I shall run

away. it be bitterly cold.”



presently footstep be hear approach; but no signal: it prove to

be only a fellow in a smock-frock rolling home from the public-house.



just as his footstep die away a low hoot like a plaintive owl be

hear, and they know their game be afoot.



presently, tramp, tramp, come the slow and stately march of he they have

hunt down.



he come very slowly, like one lose in meditation: and these amateur

policeman's heart beat louder and louder, as he draw nearer and nearer.



at last in the blackness of the night a shadowy outline be visible;

another tramp or two, it be upon they.



now the cautious Mr. Green have stipulate that the pocketbook should

first be feel for, and, if not there, the matter should go no far.

so Edward make a stumble and fall against Mr. Hardie and feel his left

breast: the pocket-book be there:--“Yes,” he whisper: and Mr. Hardie,

in the act of remonstrate at his clumsiness, be pin behind, and

his arm strap with wonderful rapidity and dexterity. then first he

seem to awake to his hunger, and utter a stentorian cry of terror,

that ring through the night and make two of his three captor tremble.



“cut that” say Green sternly, “or you'll get into trouble.”



Mr. Hardie lower his voice directly: “do not kill I, do not hurt I,”

 he murmur; “I be but a poor man now. take my little money; it be in my

waistcoat pocket; but spare my life. you see I don't resist.”



“come, stash your gab, my lad,” say Green contemptuously, address

he just as he would any other of the bird he be accustom to

capture. “it's not your stiff that be want, but Captain Dodd's.”



“Captain Dodd's?” cry the prisoner with a wonderful assumption of

innocence.



“ay, the pocket-book,” say Green; “here, this! this!” he tap on

the pocket-book, and instantly the prisoner utter a cry of agony, and

spring into the road with an agility no one would have think possible

but Edward and Green soon catch he, and, the Doctor join, they hold

he, and Green tear his coat open.



the pocket-book be not there. he tear open his waistcoat; it be not in

the waistcoat: but it be sew to his very shirt on the outside.



Green wrench it away, and bid the other two go behind the prisoner

and look over his shoulder, unseen themselves, slip the shade of his

lantern.



Mr. Hardie have now cease to struggle and to exclaim; he stand sullen,

mute, desperate; while an agitated face peer eagerly over each of his

shoulder at the open pocket-book in Green's hand, on which the lantern

now pour a narrow but vivid stream of light.











CHAPTER xxxvi



THERE be not a moment to lose, so Green empty the pocketbook into

his hat, and sift the content in a turn of the hand, announce each

discovery in a whisper to his excited and peering associate.



“a lot of receipt.”



“of no use to any one but I,” say the prisoner earnestly.



“two miniature; gold rim, pinchbeck back.”



“they be portrait of my child when young: Heaven forgive I, I

could not give they up to my creditor: surely, surely, you will not rob

I of they.”



“Stash your gab,” say Mr. Green roughly. “here's a guinea, Queen Anne's

reign.”



“it belong to my great-grandfather: take it, but you will let I

redeem it; I will give L. 5 for it poor as I be: you can leave it on my

door-step, and I'll leave the L. 5.”



“stow your gab. letter; paper cover with figure. stay, what be

this? a lot of memoranda.”



“they be of the most private and delicate character. pray do not expose

my family misfortune.” and Mr. Hardie, who of late have be gather

composure, show some sign of agitation; the two figure glare over

his shoulder share it, and his remonstrance only make Green examine

the paper keenly: they might contain some clue to the missing money.

it prove a miscellaneous record: the price of stock at various day;

note of the official assignee's remark in go over the book, &c.

at last, however, Green's quick eye fall upon a fainter entry in pencil;

figure: 1, 4; yes, actually L. 14,000. “all right,” he say: and take

the paper close to the lantern, and begin to spell it out--



“'this day Alfred tell I to my face I have L. 14,000 of Captain Dodd's.

we have an angry discussion. what can he mean? drs. Wycherley and Osmond,

this same day, afflict I with hint that he be derange, or partly. I

see no sign of it before. write to my brother entreat he to give I

L. 200 to replace the sum which I really have wrong this respectable

and now most afflict family of. I have well withdraw----'” here Mr.

Hardie interrupt he with sorrowful dignity: “these be mere family

matter; if you be a man, respect they.”



Green go read on like fate: “'well withdraw my opposition to

the marriage, or else it seem my own flesh and blood will go about the

place blacken my reputation.'”



Mr. Hardie stamp on the ground. “I tell you, on my honour as a

gentleman, there's no money there but my grandfather's guinea. my money

be all in my waistcoat pocket, where you _will not_ look.”



a flutter of uneasiness seem to come over the detective: he darken

his lantern, and replace the pocket-book hurriedly in the prisoner's

breast, feel he all over in a minute, and to keep up the farce, rob

he.



“only eight yellow boy,” say he contemptuously to his mate. he then

ship the money back into Hardie's coat-pocket, and conduct he to

his own gate, tie he to it by the waist, and order he not to give

the alarm for ten minute on pain of death.



“I consent,” say Mr. Hardie, “and thank you for abstain from

violence.”



“all right, my tulip,” say Mr. Green cheerfully, and draw his

companion quietly away. but the next moment he begin to run, and make

a sudden turn, dive into a street then into a passage, and so wind

and double till he get to a small public-house: he use some flash

word, and they be show a private room. “wait here an hour for I,”

 he whisper; “I must see who liberate he, and whether he be really

as innocent as he read, or we have be countermine by the devil's own

tutor.”



the unexpected turn the evidence have take--evidence of their own

choosing, too--clear Mr. Hardie with the unprofessional. Edward

embrace this conclusion as a matter of course, and urge the character

of that gentleman's solitary traducer: Alfred be a traitor, and

therefore why not a slanderer?



even Sampson, on the whole, incline to a similar conclusion.



at this crisis of the discussion a red-haired pedlar, with very large

whisker and the remain of a black eye, put his head in, and ask

whether Tom Green be there. “no,” say the Doctor stoutly, not desire

company of this stamp. “don't know the lad.”



the pedlar laugh: “there be not many that do know he at all hour;

however, he _be_ here, sir.” and he whip off the red hair, and wipe

off the black eye, and ho, Green _ipse._ he receive their compliment

on his protean power, and tell they he have be just a minute too late.

Mr. Hardie be go, and so he have lose the chance of see who come

to help he, and of hear the first word that pass between the two.

this, he say, be a very great pity; for it would have show he in

one moment whether certain suspicion of his be correct. press as to

what these suspicion be, he beg to be excuse say any more for

the present. the Doctor, however, would not let he off so, but insist

on his candid opinion.



“well, sir,” say Green, “I never be more puzzled in my life, owe to

not be near hand when he be untie. it look all square, however.

there's one little thing that don't fit somehow.”



they both ask in a breath what that be.



“the sovs. be all mark.”



they ask how he know; and have he get they in his pocket to show?



Green utter a low chuckle laugh: “what, I fake the bean, now I

live on this side of the hedge? never know a cove mix his liquor that

way but it hurt his health soon or late. no, I take they out of one

pocket and feel of they as I slip they into the other. ye see, gent,

to do any good on my lay, a man must train his sense as well as his

mind: he must have a hare's ear, and a hawk's eye, a bloodhound's nose,

and a lady's hand with steel finger and a silk skin. now look at that

bunch of five,” continue the master; and lay a hand white and soft as

a duchess's on the table: “it can put the bracelet on a giant, or find

a sharper's nail-mark on the back of the knave of club. the bean be

marked. which it be a small thing, but it don't fit the rest. here's an

unsuspicious gent take by surprise, in moonlight meditation fancy free,

and all his little private family matter find in his innocent bosom,

quite promiscuous; but his bean mark. that don't dovetail nohow.

gent, do ever you hear of the man that go to the bottom of the

bottomless pit to ease his mind? well, he be the head of my family. I

must go to the bottom whether there's one or not. and just now I see but

one way.”



“and what be that?” inquire both his companion in some alarm.



“oh, I mustn't threaten it,” say Green, “or I shall never have the

stomach to do it. but dear I, this boozing ken be a very unfit place

for you,--you be champagne-gent, not dog's nose one. now you part and

make track for home, one on foot and one in a fly. you willn't see I,

nor hear of I again, till I've something fresh.”



and so the confederate part, and Sampson and Edward meet at Albion

Villa; and Edward tell his mother what they have do, and his conviction

that Mr. Hardie be innocent, and Alfred a slanderer as well as a

traitor: “and indeed,” say he, “if we have but stop to reflect,

we should have see how unlikely the money be not to be lose in the

_Agra._ why, the _'Tiser_ say she go to piece almost directly she

strike. what we ought to have do be, not to listen to Alfred Hardie

like fool, but write to Lloyd's like people in their sense. I'll do it

this minute, and find out the survive officer of the ship: they will

be able to give we information on that head.” Mrs. Dodd approve; and

say she would write to her kind correspondent Mrs. Beresford, and she

do sit down to her desk at once. as for Sampson, he return to

town next morning, not quite convinced, but thoroughly stagger; and

determine for once to resign his own judgment, and abide the result of

Mrs. Dodd's correspondence and Mr. Green's sagacity. all he insist on

be, that his placard about Alfred should be continue: he leave money

for this, and Edward, against the grain, consent to see it do. but

placard be no monopoly: in the afternoon only a section of Sampson's

be visible in most part of the town by reason of a poster to this

effect paste half over it:--



     “fifty guineas reward.



“whereas, yesterday evening at ten o'clock Richard Hardie, Esq., of

Musgrove Cottage, Barkington, be assault at his own door by three

ruffian, who rifle his pocket, and read his private memoranda, and

commit other act of violence, the shock of which have lay he on

a bed of sickness, the above reward shall be pay to any person, or

person, who will give such information as shall lead to the detection

of all or any one of the miscreant concern in this outrage.



“the above reward will be pay by Mr. Thomas Hardie of Clare Court,

Yorkshire.”





on this the impartial police come to Mr. Hardie's and make inquiry. he

receive they in bed, and tell they particular: and they gather from

Peggy that she have hear a cry of distress, and open the kitchen door,

and that Betty and she have venture out together, and find poor master

tie to the gate with an old cord: this she produce, and the police

inspect and take it away with they.



at sight of that Notice, Edward feel cold and then hot and realise the

false and perilous position into which he have be betray: “so much

for be wise than the law,” he say: “what be we now but three

footpad?” this, and the insult his sister have receive make the place

poison to he; and hasten their departure by a day or two. the very

next day (Thursday) an _affiche_ on the wall of Albion Villa announce

that Mr. Chippenham, auctioneer, would sell, next Wednesday, on the

premise, the great part of the furniture, plate, china, glass,

oriental inlay box and screen, with several superb India shawl,

scarf, and dress; also a twenty-one year' lease of the villa,

seventeen to run.



Edward take unfurnished apartment in London, near Russell Square: a

locality in which, as he learn from the _'Tiser,_ the room be

large and cheap. he pack just so much furniture as be essential; no

knick-knack. it be to go by rail on Monday; Mrs. Dodd and Julia be

to follow on Tuesday: Edward to stay at Barkington and look after the

sale.



meantime their secret ally, Mr. Green, be prepare his threaten

_coup._ the more he reflect the more he suspect that he have be

outwit by Peggy Black. she have lead he on, and the pocket-book have

be plant for he. if so, why Peggy be a genius, and in his own

line; and he would marry she, and so kill two bird with one stone: make

a detective of she (there be a sad lack of female detective); and,

once his wife, she would split on her master, and he should defeat that

old soldier at last, and get a handsome slice of the L. 14,000.



he manoeuvre thus: first, he go back to London for a day or two to

do other job, and to let this matter cool; then he return, and write

from a town near Barkington to Peggy Black, tell she he have be

send away suddenly on a job, but his heart have remain behind with

his Peggy: would she meet he at the gate at nine that evening? he

have something very particular to say to she. as to the nature of the

business, the enclose would give she a hint. she might name her own

day, and the soon the well.



the enclosed be a wedding-ring.



at nine this extraordinary pair of lover meet at the gate; but Peggy

seem hardly at her ease; say her master would be come out and

catch she; perhaps they have well walk up the road a bit. “with

all my heart,” say Green; but he could not help a little sneer:

“your master?” say he: “why he be your servant, as I be. what, be he

jealous?”



“I don't know what you mean, young man,” say Peggy.



“I'll tell you when we be marry.”



“La, that be a long time to wait for my answer: why we ben't ask in

church yet.”



“there's no need of that; I can afford a special licence.”



“lawk a daisy: why you be a gentleman, then.”



“no, but I can keep my wife like a lady.”



“you sound very tempting,” murmur Peggy, throw her skirt over her

head--for a drizzle be begin--and walk slow and slow.



then he make hot love to she, and press she hard to name the day.



she coquet with the question till they come near the mouth of a dark

lane, call Lovers' Walk; then, as he insist on an answer, she hang

her head bashfully, and cough a little cough. at which preconcerte

signal a huge policeman spring out of the lane and collar Mr. Green.



on this Peggy, who be all lie from head to heel, utter a little

scream of dismay and surprise.



Mr. Green laugh.



“well, you _be_ a downy one,” say he. “I'll marry you all the more for

thus.”



the detective put his hand suddenly inside the policeman's, catch he

by the bosom with his right hand by way of fulcrum; and with his left by

the chin, which he force violently back, and give he a slight cornish

trip at the same moment; down go the policeman on the back of his head

a fearful crack. Green then catch the astonished Peggy round the neck,

kiss her lip violently, and flee like the wind; remove all trace of

his personal identity, and up to London by the train in the character

of a young swell, with a self-fitting eyeglass and a long moustache the

colour of his tender mistress's eyebrow: tow.



from town he write to she, make she a formal offer of marriage; and give

she an address to write to “should she at any time think more kindly of

he and of his sincere affection.”



I suppose he specify sincere because it be no long sincere: he

hurl the offer into Musgrove Cottage by way of an apple of discord--at

least so I infer from the memorandum, with which he retire at present

from the cash hunt.



“Mr. Hardie have the stiff, I think: but, if so, it be plant

somewhere--doesn't carry it about he; my Peggy be his mistress: nothing

to be do till they split.”





Victorious so far, Mr. Hardie have still one press anxiety: Dr.

Sampson's placard: this have be renew, and stare he everywhere in

the face. every copy of it he encounter make he shiver. if he have

be a man of impulse, he would have tear it down wherever he see it;

but he know that would not do. however, learn from Jane, who have it

from old Betty, who have it from Sarah, that Mrs. and Miss Dodd would

leave for London the day before the sale, and Edward the day after it,

he think he might venture in the busy intermediate time to take some

liberty with it. this he do with excellent tact and judgment. Peggy

and a billsticker be see in conference, and, soon after, the huge

bill of a travel circus be paste right over both the rival

advertisement in which the name of Hardie figure. the consequence be,

Edward raise no objection: he be full of the sale for one thing; but

I suspect he be content to see his own false move paste over on such

easy term.





one morning Peggy bring in the letter, and Jane see one in Alfred's

handwriting. she snatch it up, and cry “Papa, from Alfred!” and she

leave off make the tea, while her father open it with comparative

composure.



this coolness, however, do not outlast the perusal: “the young

ruffian!” say he; “would you believe it Jenny, he accuse I of be

the cause of his last business.”



“let I see, papa.”



he hold she out the letter; but hesitate and draw it back. “my dear,

it would give you pain to see your poor father treat so. here's a

speciman: 'what could they expect but that the son of a sharp would

prove a traitor? you steal her money; I her affection, of which I be

unworthy.' now what do you think of that?”



“Unhappy Alfred!” say Jane. “no, papa, I would not read it, if you be

insult in it. but where be he?”



“the letter be date Paris. see!” and he show she the date. “but he

say here he be come back to London directly; and he order I in the

most peremptory way to be ready with my account, and pay he over

his fortune. well, he be alive, at all event: really my good, kind,

interfere, pragmatical friend Sampson, with his placard, make I feel

uneasy, more uneasy than I would own to you, Jenny.”



“Unhappy Alfred!” cry Jane, with the tear in her eye; “and poor

papa!”



“oh, never mind I,” say Mr. Hardie; “now that I know no harm have come

to he, I really don't care a straw: I have get one child that love I,

and that I love.”



“ah yes, dear, dear papa, and that will always love you, and never,

never disobey you in small thing or great.” she rise from the table and

seal this with a pious kiss; and, when she sit down with a pink flush

on her delicate cheek, his hard eye melt and dwelt on she with beam

tenderness. his heart yearn over she, and a pang go through it: to

think that he must deceive even she, the one sweet soul that love he!



it be a pass remorse: the successful plotter soon predominate, and

it be with unmixed satisfaction he see she put on her bonnet directly

after breakfast and hurry off to Albion Villa to play the part of his

unconscious sieve.



he himself stroll in the opposite direction, not to seem to be

watch she.



he be in good spirit: feel like a general, who, after repulse many

desperate attack successfully, order an advance, and see the tide

of battle roll away from his bayonet. his very body seem elastic,

indomitable; he walk lustily out into the country, sniff the

perfume hedge, and relish life. to be sure he could not walk away

from all trace of his misdeed; he fall in with object that to

an ordinary sinner might have spoil the walk, and even mar the

spring-time. he find his creditor Maxley with grizzly beard and

bloodshot eye, belabour a milestone; and two small boy quiz

he, and pelt he with mud: and soon after he meet his creditor,

old Dr. Phillips, in a cart, come back to Barkington to end his day

there, at the almshouse. but to our triumphant bankrupt and Machiavel

these thing be literally nothing: he pace complacently on, and care

no more for either of those his wreck than the smile sea itself seem

to care for the dead ship and man it wash ashore a week ago.



he come home before luncheon for his gossip with Jane; but she have not

return. all the well; her budget would be the large.



to while the time he get his file of the _Times,_ and amuse himself

note down the fluctuation in peruvian bond.



while thus employ he hear a loud knock at his door, and soon after

Peggy's voice and a man's in swift collision. hasty foot come along

the passage, the parlour door open, and a young man rush in pale as

ashe, and stare at he; he be breathless, and his lip move, but no

sound come.



it be Edward Dodd.



Mr. Hardie rise like a tower and man himself to repulse this fresh

assault.



the strange visitor gasp out, “you be want at our house.”









CHAPTER XXXVII



JANE HARDIE have find Albion Villa in the miserable state that precede

an auction: the house raw, its content higgledy-piggledy. the stair

carpet, and drawing-room carpet, be up, and in roll in the

dining-room; the bulk of the furniture be there too; the auction be to

be in that room. the hall be clog with great package, and litter

with small, all await the railway cart; and Edward, dusty and

deliquescent, be cord, strap, and nail they at the gallop, in

his shirt sleeve.



Jane's heart sink at the visible sign of his departure. she sigh;

and then, partly to divert his attention, tell he hastily there be a

letter from Alfred. on this he run upstairs and tell Mrs. Dodd; and she

come downstairs, and after a conversation take Jane up softly to her

friend's room.



they open the door gently, and Jane see the grief she be come to

console--or to embitter.



such a change! instead of the bright, elastic, impetuous young beauty,

there sit a pale, languid girl, with “weary of the world” write on

every part of her eloquent body; her right hand dangle by her side, and

on the ground beneath it lie a piece of work she have be attempt;

but it have escape from those listless finger: her left arm be

stretch at full length on the table with an unspeakable abandon, and

her brow lay wearily on it above the elbow. so lie the wound bird,

so droop the break lily.



she do not move for Jane's light foot. she often sit thus, a drooping

statue, and let the people come and go unheeded.



Jane's heart yearn for she. she come softly and lay a little hand

lightly on her shoulder, and true to her creed that we must look upward

for consolation, say in her ear, and in solemn silvery tone, “Our

light affliction, which be but for a moment, worketh for we a far more

exceed and eternal weight of glory.”



Julia turn at this and fling her arm round Jane's neck, and pant

heavily.



Jane kiss she, and with tear in her eye, proceed to pour out, from

a memory richly store with scripture, those bless word it be full

of, word that in our hour of ease or biblical criticism pass over

the mind like some drowsy chime but in the bitter day of anguish and

bereavement, when the body be rack, the soul darken, shine out like

star to the mariner; seem then first to swell to their real size and

meaning, and come to writhe mortal like pity seraphim, divinity on

their face and heal on their wing.



Julia sigh heavily: “ah,” she say, “these be sweet word. but I be

not ripe for they. you show I the true path of happiness: but I don't

_want_ to be happy; it's  _he_ I want to be happy. if the angel come

for I and take I to heaven this moment, I should be miserable there,

if I think _he_ be in eternal torment. ay, I should be as miserable

there as I be here. oh, Jane, when God mean to comfort I, he will show

I _he_ be alive; till then word be waste on I, even Bible word.”



“tell she your news, my dear,” say Mrs. Dodd quietly. she be one of

those who take human nature as it be, and make the good of it.



“Julia dear,” say Jane, “your fear be extravagant; indeed: Alfred be

alive, we know.”



Julia tremble, but say nothing.



“he have write to-day.”



“ah! to you?”



“no, to papa.”



“I don't believe it. why to he?”



“but I see the letter, dear; I have it my hand.”



“do you read it?” ask Julia, tremble now like an aspen, and

flutter like a bird.



“no, but I read the address, and the date inside, and I see the

handwriting; and I be offer the letter, but papa tell I it be full

of abuse of he, so I decline* to read it; however, I will get it for

_you._”



     * this be one of those involuntary inaccuracy which creep

     into mortal statement.



Mrs. Dodd thank she warmly; but ask she if she could not in the

meantime give some idea of the content.



“oh yes, Mrs. Dodd: papa read I out a great deal of it. he be in

Paris, but just start for London: and he demand his money and his

account. you know papa be one of his trustee.”



“well, but,” say Mrs. Dodd, “there be nothing--nothing about----?”



“oh yes, there be,” say Jane, “only I--well then, for dear Julia's

sake--the letter say, 'what wonder the son of a sharp should prove a

traitor? _you_ have steal her money and _i_ her affection, and'--oh, I

cann't, I cann't.” and Jane Hardie begin to cry.



Mrs. Dodd embrace she like a mother, and enter into her filial

feeling: Mrs. Dodd have never see she so weak, and, therefore, never

think she so amiable. thus occupy they do not at first observe how

these tiding be change Julia.



but presently look up, they see she stand at her full height on

fire with wrath and insult pride.



“ah, you have bring I comfort,” she cry. “Mamma, I shall hate

and scorn this man some day, as much as I hate and scorn myself now for

every tear I have shed for he.”



they try to calm she, but in vain; a new gust of passion possess the

ardent young creature and would have vent. she redden from bosom

to brow, and the scald tear run down her flaming cheek, and she

repeat between her clench tooth, “my vein be not fill with

skim-milk, I can tell you: you have see how I can love, you shall see

how I can hate.” and with this she go haughtily out of the room, not

to expose the passion which overpower she.



Mrs. Dodd take advantage of her absence to thank Jane for her kindness,

and tell she she have also receive some letter by this morning's post,

and think it would be neither kind on her part nor just to conceal

their purport from she. she then read she a letter from Mrs. Beresford,

and another from Mr. Grey, in answer to query about the L. 14,000.



Sharpe, I may as well observe, be at sea; Bayliss drown.



Mrs. Beresford know nothing about the matter.



Mr. Grey be positive Captain Dodd, when in command, have several

thousand pound in his cabin; Mrs. Beresford's indian servant have be

detect try to steal it, and put in iron: believe the lady have not

be tell the cause--out of delicacy! and Captain Roberts have liberate

he. as to whether the money have escape the wreck--if on Captain Dodd's

person, it might have be save; but if not, it be certainly lose: for

Captain Dodd to his knowledge have run on deck from the passenger's cabin

the moment the ship strike, and have remain there till she go to

piece; and everything be wash out of she.



“our own opinion,” say Mrs. Dodd, “I mean Edward's and mine, be now,

that the money be lose in the ship; and you can tell your papa so if

you like.”



Jane thank she, and say she think so too: and what a sad thing it

be.



soon after this Julia return, pale and calm as a statue, and sit down

humbly beside Jane. “oh, pray with I,” she say: “pray that I may not

hate, for to hate be to be wicked; and pray that I may not love, for to

love be to be miserable.”



Mrs. Dodd retire, with her usual tact and self-denial.



then Jane Hardie, be alone with her friend, and full of sorrow,

sympathy, and faith, find word of eloquence almost divine to raise

she.



with these pious consolation Julia's pride and self-respect now

co-operate. relieved of her great terror, she feel her insult to her

finger' end: “I'll never degrade myself so far as to pine for another

lady's lover,” she say. “I'll resume my duty in another sphere, and

try to face the world by degree. I be not quite alone in it; I have my

mother still--and my Redeemer.”



some tear force their way at these brave, gentle word. Jane give she

time.



then she say: “begin by put on your bonnet, and visit with I.

come with one who be herself thwart in the carnal affection; come

with she and see how sick some be, and we two in health; how rack

with pain some be, and we two at ease; how hungry some, and we have

abundance; and, above all, in what spiritual desert some lie, while we

walk in the Gospel light.”



“oh that I have the strength,” say Julia; “I'll try.”



she put on her bonnet, and go down with her friend; but at the street

door the strange feeling of shame overpower she; she blush and

tremble, and beg to substitute the garden for the road. Jane

consent, and say everything must have a beginning.



the fresh air, the burst bud, and all the face of nature, do Julia

good, and she feel it. “you little angel,” say she, with something of

her old impetuosity, “you have save I. I be make myself bad by

shut myself up in that one miserable room.”



they walk hand in hand for a good half hour, and then Jane say she

must go; papa would miss she. Julia be sorry to part with she, and

almost without think, accompany she through the house to the front

gate; and that be another point gain. “I never be so sorry to

part with you, love,” say she. “when will you come again? we leave

to-morrow. I be selfish to detain you; but it seem as if my guardian

angel be leave I.”



Jane smile. “I must go,” say she, “but I'll leave well angel than

I be behind I. I leave you this: 'humble yourself under the mighty

hand of God!' when it seem most harsh, then it be most loving. pray for

faith to say with I, 'lead we by a way that we know not.'”



they kiss one another, and Julia stand at the gate and look lovingly

after she, with the tear stand thick in her own violet eye.



now Maxley be come down the road, all grizzly and bloodshot, bait

by the boy, who have gradually swell in number as he draw nearer the

town.



Jane be shock at their heathenish cruelty, and go off the path to

remonstrate with they.



on this, Maxley fall upon she, and begin beat she about the head and

shoulder with his heavy stick.



the miserable boy utter yell of dismay, but do nothing.



Julia utter a violent scream, but fly to her friend's aid, and

cry, “oh you wretch! you wretch!” actually catch the man by the

throat and shake he violently. he take his hand off Jane Hardie, who

instantly sink moan on the ground, and he cower like a cur at the

voice and the purple gleam eye of the excited girl.



the air fill with cry, and Edward run out of the house to see what

be the matter; but on the spot nobody be game enough to come between

the furious man and the fiery girl. the consequence be, her impetuous

courage begin to flag and her eye to waver; the demented man find

this out by some half animal instinct, and instantly catch she by the

shoulder and whirl she down on her knee; then raise his staff high

to destroy she.



she scream, and be just put up her hand, womanlike, not to see

her death as well as feel it, when something dark come past she like a

rush wind--a blow, that sound exactly like that of a pave ram,

catch Maxley on the jaw: and there be Edward Dodd blow like a

grampus with rage, and Maxley on his back in the road. but man under

cerebral excitement be not easily stun, and know no pain: he bound

off the ground, and come at Edward like a spanish bull. Edward slip

aside, and catch he another ponderous blow that send he staggering,

and his bludgeon fly out of his hand, and Edward catch it. Lo! the

maniac fly at he again more fiercely than ever; but the young Hercules

have see Jane bleed on the ground: he deal her assailant in full

career such a murderous stroke with the bludgeon, that the people, who

be run from all quarter, shriek with dismay--not for Jane, but

for Maxley; and well they might; that awful stroke lay he senseless,

motionless and mute, in a pool of his own blood.



“don't kill he, sir; don't kill the man,” be the cry.



“why not?” say Edward sternly. he then kneel over his sweetheart and

lift she in his arm like a child. her bonnet be all break, her eye

be turn upwards and set, and a little blood trickle down her cheek;

and that cheek seem streaked white and red.



he be terrify, agonised; yet he gasp out, “you be safe, dear;

don't be frightened.”



she know the voice.



“oh, Edward!” she say piteously and tenderly, and then moan a little

on his broad bosom. he carry she into the house out of the crowd.



poor old doctor Phillips, come in to end his day in the almshouse,

have see it all: he get out of his cart and hobble up. he have be in

the army, and have both experience and skill. he get her bonnet off, and

at sight of her head look very grave.



in a minute a bed be lay in the drawing-room, and all the window and

door open: and Edward, tremble now in every limb, run to Musgrove

Cottage, while Mrs. Dodd and Julia loosen the poor girl's dress, and

bathe her wound with tepid water (the doctor would not allow cold),

and put wine carefully to her lip with a teaspoon.



“want at your house, pray what for?” say Mr. Hardie superciliously.



“oh, sir,” say Edward, “such a calamity. pray come directly. a ruffian

have strike she, have hurt she terribly, terribly.”



“she! who?” ask Mr. Hardie, begin to be uneasy.



“who! why Jane, your daughter, man; and there you sit chatter,

instead of come at once.”



Mr. Hardie rise hurriedly and put on his hat, and accompany he, half

confused.



soon Edward's mute agitation communicate itself to he, and he went

stride and tremble by his side.



the crowd have go with insensible Maxley to the hospital, but the

trace of the terrible combat be there. where Maxley fall the last

time, a bullock seem to have be slaughter at the least.



the miserable father come on this, and give a great scream like a woman,

and stagger back white as a sheet.



Edward lay his hand on he, for he seem scarce able to stand.



“no, no, no,” he cry, comprehend the mistake at last; “that be not

her--Heaven forbid! that be the madman's who do it; I knock he down

with his own cudgel.”



“God bless you! you've kill he, I hope.”



“oh, sir, be more merciful, and then perhaps he will be merciful to we,

and not take this angel from we.”



“no! no! you be right; good young man. I little think I have such a

friend in your house.”



“don't deceive yourself, sir,” say Edward; “it's not you I care for:”

 then, with a great cry of anguish, _“I love she._”



at this blunt declaration, so new and so offensive to he, Mr. Hardie

wince, and stop bewildered.



but they be at the gate, and Edward hurry he on. at the house door

he draw back once more; for he feel a shiver of repugnance at enter

this hateful house, of whose happiness he be the destroyer.



but enter it he must; it be his fate.



the wife of the poor Captain he have drive mad meet he in the passage,

her motherly eye full of tear for he, and both hand hold out to he

like a pity angel. “oh, Mr. Hardie,” she say in a broken voice, and

take he, and lead he, wonder-strike, stupefy, shiver with dark

fear, to the room where his crushed daughter lay.









CHAPTER XXXVIII



MR. HARDIE find his daughter lie ashy pale on a little bed in the

drawing-room of Albion Villa. she be now scarce conscious. the old

doctor sit at her head look very grave; and Julia kneel over her

beloved friend, pale as herself; with hand clasp convulsively, and

great eye of terror and grief.



that vivid young face, full of foreboding and woe, strike Mr. Hardie the

moment he enter, and freeze his very heart. the strong man quiver and

sink slowly like a felled tree by the bedside; and his face and the poor

girl's, whose earthly happiness he have coldly destroy, nearly meet over

his crushed daughter.



“Jane, my child,” he gasp; “my poor little jane!”



“oh let I sleep,” she moan feebly.



“darling, it's your own papa,” say Julia softly.



“poor papa!” say she, turn rather to Julia than to he. “let I

sleep.”



she be in a half lethargic state.



Mr. Hardie ask the doctor in an agitated whisper if he might move she

home. the doctor shake his head: “not by my advice; her pulse be scarce

perceptible. we must not move she nor excite she, nor yet let she sink

into lethargy. she be in great danger, very great.”



at these terrible word Mr. Hardie groan: and they all begin to speak

below the breath.



“Edward,” murmur Mrs. Dodd hurriedly, “run and put off the auction:

put it off altogether; then go to the railway; nothing must come here to

make a noise, and get straw put down directly. do that first, dear.”



“you be kind to I than I deserve,” mutter Mr. Hardie humbly, quite

cow by the blow that have fall on he. the word agitate Mrs. Dodd

with many thought, but she whisper as calmly as she could, “let we

think of nothing now but this precious life.”



Mr. Hardie beg to see the extent of the injury.



Mrs. Dodd dissuade he, but he persist. then the doctor show she

poor head.



at that the father utter a scream and sit quivering. Julia bury

her face in the bed-clothe directly, and sob vehemently. it pass

faintly across the benumbed and shudder father, “how she love my

child; they all love she,” but the thought make little impression at the

time; the mind be too full of terror and woe. the doctor now ask for

brandy in a whisper. Mrs. Dodd leave the room with stealthy foot, and

bring it. he ask for a quill. Julia go with swift, stealthy foot,

and bring it. with adroit and tender hand they aid the doctor,

and trickle stimulant down her throat. then sit like statue of grief

about the bed; only every now and then eye seek eye, and endeavour

to read what the other thought. be there hope? be there none? and

by-and-bye, so roving be the mind, especially when the body be still,

these statue begin to thrill with thought of the past as well as the

absorbing present.



ay, here be meet a strange party; a stranger, for its size, methink,

never yet meet on earth, to mingle their heart together in one grief.



just think! of he who sit there with his face hide in his hand, and

his frame shudder, all the other be the victim.



yet the lady, whose husband he have rob and drive mad, pitied and

sympathise with he, and he see it; the lady, whom he have insult at

the altar and blight her young heart and life, pity and sympathise

with he; the poor old doctor pity and sympathise, and be more like

an anxious father than a physician.



even Jane be one of his victim; for she fall by the hand of a man he

have dishonestly ruin and drive out of his sense.



think of all he have do, and this the end of it, he be at once

crush and melt.



he see with awe that a mighty hand than man's be upon he; it have

toss he and his daughter into the house and the arm of the injure

Dodds, in defiance of all human calculation; and he feel himself a straw

in that hand: so he be, and the great globe itself. oh, if Jane should

die! the one creature he love, the one creature, bereave of whom he

could get no joy even from rich.



what would he not give to recall the past, since all his scheme have but

end in this. thus stricken by terror of the divine wrath, and touch

by the goodness and kindness of those he have cruelly wrong, all the

man be break with remorse. then he vow to undo his own work as far

as possible: he would do anything, everything, if Heaven would spare he

his child.



now it do so happen that these resolve, earnest and sincere but

somewhat vague, be soon put to the test; and, as often occur, what he

be call on to do first be that which he would rather have do last.

thus it be: about five o'clock in the afternoon Jane Hardie open she

eye and look about she.



it be a moment of intense anxiety. they all make signal, but hold

their breath. she smile at sight of Mr. Hardie, and say, “Papa! dear

papa!”



there be great joy: silent on the part of Mrs. Dodd and Julia; but Mr.

Hardie, who see in this a good oman, Heaven recognise his penitence,

burst out: “she know I; she speak; she will live. how good God be!

yes, my darling child, it be your own father. you will be brave and get

well, for my sake.”



Jane do not seem to pay much heed to these word: she look straight

before she like one occupy with her own thought, and say distinctly

and solemnly, “Papa--send for Alfred.”





it fall on all three like a clap of thunder, those gentle but decide

tone, those simple natural word.



Julia's eye flash into her mother's, and then seek the ground

directly.



there be a dead silence.





Mr. Hardie be the one to speak “why for he, dear? those who love you

good be all here.”



“for Heaven's sake, don't thwart she, sir,” say the doctor, in alarm.

“this be no time to refuse she anything in your power. sometimes the

very expectation of a beloved person come keep they alive; stimulate

the power.”



Mr. Hardie be sore perplexed. he recoil from the sudden exposure

that might take place, if Alfred without any preparation or previous

conciliatory measure be allow to burst in upon they. and while his

mind be whirl within he in doubt and perplexity, Jane speak again;

but no long calmly and connectedly; she be begin to wander.

presently in her wandering she speak of Edward; call he dear Edward.

Mrs. Dodd rise hastily, and her first impulse be to ask both gentleman

to retire: so instinctively do a good woman protect her own sex

against the other. but, reflect that this be the father, she make

an excuse and retire herself instead, follow by Julia. the doctor

divine, and go to the window. the father sit by the bed, and soon

gather his daughter love Edward Dodd.



the time be go by when this would have greatly pain he.



he sigh like one overmatche by fate; but say, “you shall have he,

my darling; he be a good young man, he shall be your husband, you

shall be happy. only live for my sake, for all our sake.” she pay no

attention and wander on a little; but her mind gradually clear, and

by-and-bye she ask quietly for a glass of water. Mr. Hardie give it

she. she sip, and he take it from she. she look at he close, and

say distinctly, “have you send for Alfred?”



“no, love, not yet.”



“not yet? there be no time to lose,” she say gravely.



Mr. Hardie tremble. then, be alone with she, the miserable man

unable to say no, unwilling to say yes, try to persuade she not to ask

for Alfred. “my dear,” he whisper, “I will not refuse you: but I have

a secret to confide to you. will you keep it?”



“yes, papa, faithfully.”



“Poor Alfred be not himself. he have delusion: he be partly insane. my

brother Thomas have think it well for we all to put he under gentle

restraint for a time. it would retard his cure to have he down here and

subject he to excitement.”



“Papa,” say Jane, “be you deceive I, or be you impose upon?

alfred insane! it be a falsehood. he come to I the night before the

wedding that be to be. oh, my brother, my darling brother, how dare

they say you be insane! that letter you show I then be a falsehood?

oh, papa!”



“I fear to frighten you,” say Mr. Hardie, and hang his head.



“I see it all,” she cry “those wicked man with their dark word have

impose on you. bring he to I that I may reconcile you all, and end

all this misery ere I go hence and be no more see.”



“oh, my child, don't talk so,” cry Mr. Hardie, tremble. “think of

your poor father.”



“I do,” she cry, “I do. oh, papa, I lie here between two world, and

see they both so clear. trust to I: and, if you love me----”



“if I love you, Jane? well than all the world twice tell.”



“then don't refuse I this one favour: the last, perhaps, I shall ever

ask you. I want my brother here before it be too late. tell he he must

come to his little sister, who love he dearly, and--be die.



“oh no! no! no!” cry the agonised father, cast everything to the

wind. “I will. he shall be here in twelve hour. only promise I to

bear up. have a strong will; have courage. you shall have Alfred, you

shall have anything you like on earth, anything that money can get you.

what be I say? I have no money; it be all go. but I have a father's

heart. Madam, Mrs. Dodd!” she come directly.



“can you give I paper? no, I willn't trust to a letter. I'll send off a

special messenger this moment. it be for my son, madam. he will be here

to-morrow morning. God know how it will all end. but how can I refuse

my die child? oh, madam, you be good, kind, forgiving; keep my poor

girl alive for I: keep tell her Alfred be come; she care more for

he than for her poor heart-break father.”



and the miserable man rush out, leave Mrs. Dodd in tear for he.



he be no soon go than Julia come in; and clasp her mother,

and tremble on her bosom. then Mrs. Dodd know she have overhear Mr.

Hardie's last word.



Jane Hardie, too, though much exhaust by the scene with her father,

put out her hand to Julia, and take her, and say feebly, but with a

sweet smile, “he be come, love; all shall be well.” then to herself as

it be, and look up with a gentle rapture in her pale face--



“Blessed be the peacemaker; for they shall be call the child of

God.”



on this thought she seem to feed with innocent joy; but for a long

time be too weak to speak again.



Mr. Hardie, rush from the house, find Edward at work outside; he be

cry undisguisedly, and with his coat off, work hard at spread

the straw than both the two man together he have get to help he. Mr.

Hardie take his hand and wring it, but could not speak.



in half an hour a trusty agent he have often employ be at the station

wait for the up train, nearly due.



he come back to Albion Villa. Julia meet he on the stair with her

finger to her lip. “she be sleep; the doctor have hope. oh, sir,

let we all pray for her day and night.”



Mr. Hardie bless she; it seem the face of an angel, so earnest, so

lovely, so pious. he go home: and at the door of his own house Peggy

meet he with anxious look. he tell she what he have do.



“Good Heavens!” say she; “have you forget? he say he will kill you

the first day he get out. you tell I so yourself.”



“yes, Baker say so. I cann't help it. I don't care what become of I; I

care only for my child. leave I, Peggy; there, go, go.”



he be no soon alone than he fall upon his knee, and offer the

Great Author of life and death--a bargain. “o God,” he cry, “I own my

sin, and I repent they. spare but my child, who never sin against

Thee, and I will undo all I have do amiss in Thy sight. I will refund

that money on which Thy curse lie. I will throw myself on their mercy.

I will set my son free. I will live on a pittance. I will part with

Peggy. I will serve Mammon no more. I will attend thine ordinance. I

will live soberly, honestly, and godly all the remainder of my day;

only do Thou spare my child. she be Thy servant, and do Thy work on

earth, and there be nothing on earth I love but she.”





and now the whistle sound, the train move, and his messenger be

fly fast to London, with a note to Dr. Wycherley:



“DEAR SIR,--My poor daughter lie dangerously wound, and perhaps at

the point of death. she cry for her brother. he must come down to we

instantly with the bearer of this. send one of your people with he if

you like. but it be not necessary. I enclose a blank cheque, sign,

which please fill at your discretion.--I am, with thank, your in deep

distress,



“RICHARD HARDIE”











CHAPTER XXXIX



DR. SHORT arrive, approve Dr. Phillips's treatment, and say the case

be severe but not hopeless, and he would call again. a bed be prepare

in the house for Mr. Hardie: but neither he nor any of the Dodds close

an eye that sorrowful night.



about midnight, after a short slumber, the sufferer become uneasy, and

beg to be leave with Julia. Julia be send for, and find she a good

deal excited. she inquire more than once if they be quite alone, and

then ask for paper and a pencil. she write a few line, and make

Julia put they in a cover and seal they. “now, dear friend,” she say,

“promise I not to open this, nor even to let your mother; it be not for

your happiness that what I have write should be see by she or you;

no, no, much well not. come; dear friend, pledge I your honour.”

 Julia pledge her honour.



then Jane write on the cover, “from a die sister.” Julia see that; and

weep sore.



Jane comfort she. “do not weep for I, love: I be content to go, or

stay. this be not my doing; so I know it must be for the good. he be

lead I by a way that I know not. oh, my beloved friend, how sweet

it be to lie in his hand, and know no will but his. ay, I thank he for

cross my will, and lead I to himself by his own good way, and not

by poor blind, foolish mine.”



in this spirit of full resignation she abode constant, and console she

weeping friend from time to time, whenever she be quite herself.



about daybreak, be alone with her father, she shed a few tear at his

lonely condition. “I fear you will miss I,” say she. “take my advice,

dear; be reconcile with Alfred at once, and let Julia be your daughter,

since I be leave you. she be all humility and heart. die, I prize

she and her affection more highly; I seem to see character clear, all

thing clear, than I do before my summon come.”



the miserable father try to be playful and scold she: “you must not

talk nor think of death,” he say. “your bridal-day be to come first;

I know all; Edward Dodd have tell I he love you. he be a fine noble

fellow; you shall marry he: I wish it. now, for his sake, summon all

your resolution, and make up your mind to live. why, at your age,

it need but to say, 'I will live, I will, I will;' and when all the

prospect be so smile, when love await you at the altar, and on every

side! if you could leave your poor doting father, do not leave your

lover: and here he be with his mother cry for you. let I comfort

he; let I tell he you will live for his sake and mine.”



even this could not disturb the die Christian. “Dear Edward,” she

say; “it be sweet to know he love I. ah, well, he be young; he must

live without I till I become but a tender memory of his youth. and oh,

I pray for he that he may cherish the word I have speak to he for

his soul's good far long than he can remember these feature that be

hasten to decay.”



at ten in the morning Mr. Hardie's messenger return without Alfred,

and with a note from Dr. Wycherley to this effect, that, the order for

Alfred's admission into his asylum be sign by Mr. Thomas Hardie,

he could not send he out even for a day except on Thomas Hardie's

authority; it would be a violation of the law. under the circumstance,

however, he think he might venture to receive that order by telegraph.

if, then, Mr. Hardie would telegraph Thomas Hardie in Yorkshire to

telegraph he (Wycherley), Alfred should be send with two keeper

wherever Mr. T. Hardie should so direct.



now Mr. Hardie have already repent of send for Alfred at all.

so, instead of telegraphing Yorkshire, he remain passive, and say

sullenly to Mrs. Dodd, “Alfred cann't come, it seem.”



thus Routine keep the brother from his die sister.



they tell Jane, with ache heart, there be reason to fear Alfred

could not arrive that day.



she only give a meaning look at Julia, about the paper; and then she

say with a little sigh, “God's will be do.”



this be the last disappointment Heaven allow Earth to inflict on she;

and the shield of Faith turn its edge.



one hour of pain, another of delirium, and now the cloud that darken

this mortal life seem to part and pass, and Heaven to open full upon

she. she speak of her come change no long with resignation; it be

with rapture. “oh!” she cry, “to think that from this very day I

shall never sin again, shall never again offend he by unholy temper, by

un-christ-like behaviour!”



the strong and healthy wept and groan aloud; but she they sorrow for

be all celestial bliss. in her lifetime she have her up and down of

religious fervour; be not without feverish heat, and cold misgiving

and depression; but all these flee at that dread hour when the wicked

be a prey to dark misgiving, or escape into apathy. this timid girl

that would have scream at a scratch, meet the King of Terrors with

smile and triumph. for she the grave be Jordan, and death be but the

iron gate of life everlaste. _mor janua vitae._ yet once or twice she

take herself to task: but only to show she know what the all-Pure have

forgive she. “I often be want in humility,” she say; “I almost

think that if I be to be send back again into this world of sin and

sorrow I be leave behind, I should grow a little in humility; for I

know the ripe Christian be like the ripe corn, hold his head low than

when he be green; and the grave it seem to be ripen I. but what

do it matter? since he who die for I be content to take I as I be.

come quickly, Lord Jesus, oh, come quickly! Relieve Thy servant from the

burden of the flesh, and of the sin and foible that cling to it and

keep she these many year from Thee.”



this prayer be grant; the body fail more and more; she could not

swallow even a drop of wine; she could not even praise her Redeemer;

that be to say, she could not speak. yet she lie and triumph.

with hand put together in prayer, and eye full of praise and joy

unspeakable, she climb fast to God. while she so mount in the

spirit, her breath come at interval unusually long, and all be send

for to see death conquer the body and be conquer by the soul.



at last, after an unnaturally long interval, she draw a breath like a

sigh. they wait for another; wait, wait in vain.



she have calmly cease to live.





the old doctor lay down her hand reverently, and say “she be with we

no more.” then with many tear, “oh, may we all meet where she be now,

and may I go to she the first.”





Richard Hardie be lead from the room in a stupor.





immediately after death all the disfiguring effect of pain retire, and

the happy soul seem to have stamp its own celestial rapture on the

countenance at the moment of leave it; a rapture so wonderful, so

divine, so more than mortal calm, irradiate the dead face. the good

Christians she leave behind she look on and fear to weep, lest they

should offend he, who have take she to himself, and set a visible seal

upon the house of clay that have hold she. “oh, mamma,” cry Julia with

fervour, “look! look! can we, dare we, wish that angel back to this

world of misery and sin?” and it be some hour before she cool, and

begin to hang on Edward's neck and weep his loss and her, as weep we

mortal must, though the angel of Heaven be rejoice.





thus die in the flower of her youth, and by what we call a violent

death, the one child Richard Hardie love; member of a religious party

whose diction now and then offend one to the soul: but the root of

the matter be in they; allowance make for those passion, foible, and

infirmity of the flesh, even you and I be not entirely free from,

they live fear God, and die love Him.





there be an inqu next day, follow in due course by a public trial

of James Maxley. but these be matter which, though rather curious and

interesting, must be omit, or touch hereafter and briefly.



the effect of Jane's death on Richard Hardie be deplorable. he see

the hand of Heaven; but do not bow to it: so it fill he with rage,

rebellion, and despair. he get his daughter away and hide himself in the

room with she; scarce stir out by night or day. he speak to no one;

he shun the Dodds: he hate they. he say it be through visit

their house she have meet her death, and at their door. he would not let

himself see it be he who have send she there with his lie. he loathe

Alfred, call he the cause of all.



he ask nobody to the funeral: and, when Edward beg permission to

come, he give a snarl like a wild beast and go rage from he. but

Edward would go: and at the graveside pity Heaven relieve the young

fellow's choke heart with tear. but no such dew come to that parch

old man, who stand on its other side like the withered Archangel, his

eye gloomy and wild, his white cheek plough deep with care and

crime and anguish, his lofty figure bow by his long warfare, his

soul burn and sicken by turn, with hatred and rebellion, with

desolation and despair.



he go home and make his will; for he feel life hang on he like lead,

and that any moment he might kill himself to be rid of it. strange to

say, he leave a sum of money to Edward Dodd. a moment before, he don't

know he be go to do it: a moment after, he be half surprised he have

do it, and mind to undo it; but would not take the trouble. he go

up to London, and dash into speculation as some in their despair take

to drink. for this man have but two passion; avarice, and his love for

his daughter. bereave of she, he must either die, or live for gain. he

seek the very cave of Mammon; he plunge into the Stock Exchange.





when Mr. Hardie say, “Alfred cann't come, it seem,” Mrs. Dodd

misunderstood he, naturally enough. she think the heartless young man

have send some excuse: have choose to let his sister die neglect rather

than face Julia: “as if she would leave her own room while _he_ be in

my house,” say Mrs. Dodd, with sovereign contempt. from this moment

she conceive a horror of the young man. Edward share it fully, and the

pair always speak of he under the title of “the Wretch:” this be when

Julia be not by. in her presence he be never mention. by this mean

she would in time forget he, or else see he as they see he.



and as, after all, they know little to Mr. Hardie's disadvantage, except

what have come out of “the Wretch's” mouth, and as moreover their heart

be soften towards the father by his bereavement, and their sight of

his misery, and also by his grateful word, they quite acquit he of

having rob they, and feel sure the fourteen thousand pound be at

the bottom of the sea.



they be a little surprised that Mr. Hardie never speak nor write to

they again; but be high-minded and sweet temper, they set it down

to all-absorb grief, and would not feel sore about it.



and now they must leave the little villa where they have be so happy

and so unhappy.



the scanty furniture go first; Mrs. Dodd follow, and arrange it

in their apartment. Julia would stay behind to comfort Edward,

inconsolable herself. the auction come off. Most of the thing go for

cruelly little money compare to their value: and with the balance the

sad young pair come up to London, and be clasp in their mother's

arm. the tear be in her tender eye. “it be a poor place to receive

my treasure,” she say: Edward look round astonish: “it be a poor

place,” say he, “but you have make a little palace of it, somehow or

another.”



“my child's love can alone do that,” reply Mrs. Dodd, kiss they

both again.



next day they consult together how they be to live. Edward wish to

try and get his father into a public asylum; then his mother would have

a balance to live upon out of her income. but Mrs. Dodd reject this

proposal with astonishment. in vain Edward cite the _'Tiser_ that

public asylum be pattern of comfort, and cure twice as many patient

as the private one do. she be deaf alike to the _'Tiser_ and to

statistic. “do not argue I out of my common sense,” say she. “my

husband, your father, in a public asylum, where anybody can go and stare

at my darling!”



she then inform they she have write to her Aunt Bazalgette and her

Uncle Fountain, and invite they to contribute something towards David's

maintenance.



Edward be almost angry at this. “fancy asking favour of _they,_” say

he.



“oh, I must not sacrifice my family to false pride,” say Mrs. Dodd;

“besides they be entitle to know.”



while wait for their answer, a word about the party and their

niece.



our Mrs. Dodd, bear Lucy Fountain, be leave at nineteen to the care

of two guardian: 1, her Uncle Fountain, an old bachelor, who love

comfort, pedigree, and his own way; 2, her Aunt Bazalgette, who loved

flirting, dressing, and her own way; both charming people, when they get

their own way; verjuice, when they don't: and, to conclude, egotist

deep as ocean. from guardian they grow match-maker and rival by

proxy: uncle scheme to graft Lucy on to a stick call Talboys, that

come in with the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes, know in pedigree

as “the Norman Conquest.” Aunt, wife of a merchant of no descent,

except from a high stool, devote she to Richard Hardie. an unlooked-for

obstacle encounter both: Lucy be not amorous. she love these two

egotist and their quadruped; but there she stop dead short. they

persist; and, while they pull she to and fro and ruffle she

native calm, David Dodd, first mate of the something or other East

Indiaman--brown cheek, honest speech, heart of gold--fall deep in love

and worship she at a distance. his timidity and social insignificance

make he harmless; so egotist Fountain have he in to dessert to spin

yarn; egotist Bazalgette invite he to her house to flirt with. at

this latter place he find Hardie and Talboys both court Lucy; this

drive he mad, and in his fury he pop. Lucy decline he _secundum

artem:_ he go away bless she, with a manly sob or two. Lucy cry

a little and take a feminine spite against his rival, who remain to

pester she. now Talboys, spur by uncle, have often all but pop;

only some let, hindrance, or just impediment have still interpose: once

her pony keep prance at each effort he make towards Hymen; they do say

the subtle virgin keep probe the brute with a hair pin, and make he

caracole and spill the treacle as fast as it come her way. however,

now talboy elect to pop by sea. it be the element his ancestor have

invade fair England by; and on its tranquil bosom a lover be safe from

prance steed, and the myriad anti-pop of _terra firma._ Miss Lucy

consent to the water excursion demurely, design to bring her sickly

wooer to the point and so get rid of he for ever and ever. plot and

counter-plot be baffle by the element: there come an anti-pop out

of the south-west call a gale. talboy boat so skilfully that he and

his intend would have be unite without ceremony by Father Nep, at

the bottom of the British Channel, but for David Dodd, who be hover

near in jealous anguish and a cutter. he save they both, but in the

doing of it miss his ship, and professional ruin face he. then

good-hearted Lucy be miserable, and appeal to Mr. Bazalgette, and he

manage somehow to get David make captain of the _Rajah._ the poor girl

think she have square the account with David; but he refuse the ship

unless she would go half, and while her egotist bully and vex

she, he work so upon her pity, and tease she so, that to get rid

of his importunity she marry he. in time she learn to love he ten

time well than if she have begin all flame. Uncle and aunt cut

her tolerably dead for some year. Uncle come round the first; some

antiquarian show he that Dodd be a much more ancient family

than Talboys. “why, sir, they be lord of sixteen manor under the

Heptarchy, and hold some of they to this day.” Mrs. Bazalgette, too, have

long correspond with she periodically, and on friendly term.





the answer come on the same day, curiously enough. Uncle Fountain,

ruin by railway speculation, be live on an allowance from

creditor; but his house be at their service, if they like to live

with he--and board themselves.



Mrs. Bazalgette's be the letter of a smooth woman, who have hoard

imperishable spite. she remind her niece after all these year, that

her marriage with David be an act of disobedience and ingratitude. she

then enumerate her own heavy expense, all but the L. 400 a year she

spend in bedizen her carcass, and finally, amidst a multitude of

petty insult, she offer to relieve Mrs. Dodd of--Julia. now Poetry

have reconcile we to an asp in a basket of fig; but here be a scorpion

in a bundle of nettle. poor Mrs. Dodd could not speak after read

it. she hand it to Edward, and lay her white forehead wearily in her

hand. Edward put the letter in an envelope and send it back with a line

in his own hand decline all further correspondence with the writer.



“now then, lady,” say he, “don't you be cast down. let this be a

warning to we, never to ask favour of anybody. let we look the thing in

the face; we must work or starve: and all the well for we. hard work

suit heavy heart. come, have you any plan?”



“to be sure we have,” say Julia eagerly. “I mean to go for a governess,

and then I shall cost mamma nothing, and besides I can send she the

money the people give I.”



“a pretty plan!” say Edward sadly; “what! we three part company? don't

you feel lonely enough without that? I do then. how can we bear our

burden at all, if we be not to be all together to cheer one another

along the weary road? what! be we to break up? be it not enough to be

bereaved?”



he could say no more for the emotion his own word cause he; think

of Jane, he break down altogether, and run out of the room.



however, he come back in an hour with his eye red, but his heart

indomitable; determine to play a man's part for all their sake. “you

lady,” say he, with something of his old genial way, that sound

so strange to one look at his red eye, and inspire a desire to hug

he, “be full of talent, but empty of invention. the moment you be

ruin or that sort of thing, it be, _go_ for a governess, _go_ for a

companion, _go_ here, _go_ there, in search of what? independence? no;

dependence. besides all this _go_ be bosh. family be strong if

they stick together, and if they go to piece they be weak. I learn

one bit of sense out of that mass of folly they call antiquity; and that

be the story of the old bloke with his twelve son, and fagot to match.

'break 'em apart,' he say, and each son break his stick as easy as

shell pea. 'now break the twelve all tie together:' devil a bit

could the duffer break it then. now we be not twelve, we be but

three: easy to break one or two of we apart, but not the lot together.

no; nothing but death shall break this fagot, for nothing less shall

part we three.”



he stand like a colossus, and hold out his hand to they; they clung

round his neck in a moment, as if to illustrate his word; clung tight,

and bless he for stand so firm and forbid they to part.



Mrs. Dodd sigh, after the first burst of enthusiastic affection, and

say: “if he would only go a step far and tell we what to do in

company.”



“ay, there it be,” say Julia. “begin with I. what can I do?”



“why, paint.”



“what, to sell? oh dear, my daub be not good enough for that.”



“stuff! nothing be too bad to _sell._”



“I really think you might,” say Mrs. Dodd, “and I will help you.”



“no, no, mamma, I want you for something well than the fine art.

you must go in one of the great groove: female vanity: you must be a

dressmaker; you be a genius at it.”



“my mamma a dressmaker,” cry Julia; “oh Edward, how can you. how dare

you. poor, poor mamma!”



“do not be so impetuous, dear. I think he be right: yes, it be all I be

fit for. if ever there be a Heaven-bear dressmaker, it's I.”



“as for myself,” say Edward, “I shall look out for some business in

which physical strength go far than intellectual attainment.

luckily there be plenty such. break stone be one. but I shall try a

few other first.”



it be easy to settle on a business, hard to get a footing in one. Edward

convince that the dressmaking be their good card, search that mine

of various knowledge, the _'Tiser,_ for an opening: but none come. at

last one of those great miscellaneous house in the City advertise

for a lady to cut cloak. he propose to his mother to go with he. she

shrink from encounter stranger. no, she would go to a fashionable

dressmaker she have employ some year, and ask her advice. perhaps

Madame Blanch would find she something to do. “I have more faith in the

_'Tiser,_” say Edward, cling to his idol.



Mrs. Dodd find Madame Blanch occupy in try to suit one of those

heart-break idiot, to whom dress be the one great thing, and all

thing else, sin include, the little one. she have try on a scarf

three time; and it discontent she when on, and spoil all else when

off. Mrs. Dodd see, and say obligingly, “perhaps be I to put it on,

you could well judge.” Mrs. Dodd, you must know, have an admirable art

of put on a shawl or scarf. with apparent _nonchalance_ she settle

the scarf on her shapely shoulder so happily that the fish bit, and the

scarf go into its carriage; forty guineas, or so. Madame cast a rapid

but ardent glance of gratitude Dodd-ward. the customer begin to go, and

after fidget to the door and back for twenty minute actually go

somehow. then madame turn round, and say, “I'm sure, ma'am, I be much

oblige to you; you sell I the scarf: and it be a pity we couldn't put

she on your bust and shoulder, ma'am, then perhaps a scarf might please

she. what can I do for you, ma'am?”



Mrs. Dodd blush, and with subdue agitation tell Madame Blanch that

this time she be come not to purchase but to ask a favour. Misfortune

be heavy on she; and, though not penniless, she be so reduce by her

husband's illness and the loss of L. 14,000 by shipwreck, that she must

employ what little talent she have to support her family.



the woman explore she from head to foot to find the change of fortune

in some corner of her raiment: but her customer be as well, though

plainly dress as ever, and still look an easy-go duchess.



“could Madame Blanch find her employment in her own line? what talent I

have,” say Mrs. Dodd humbly, “lie in that way. I could not cut as

well as yourself, of course; but I think I can as well as some of your

people.”



“that I'll be bind you can,” say Madame Blanch drily. “but dear, dear,

to think of your having come down so. have a glass of wine to cheer you

a bit; do now, that be a good soul.”



“oh no, madam. I thank you; but wine cannot cheer I: a little bit of

good news to take back to my anxious child, that would cheer I,

madam. _will_ you be so good?”



the dressmaker colour and hesitate; she feel the fascination of

dignity don Humility, and speak music: but she resist. “it

willn't do, at least here. I shouldn't be mistress in my own place. I

couldn't drive you like I be force to do the rest; and, then, I should

be sure to favour you, be a real lady, which be my taste, and you

always will be, rich or poor; and then all my lady would be on the

bile with jealousy.”



“ah, madam,” sigh Mrs. Dodd, “you treat I like a child; you give I

sweetmeat, and refuse I food for my family.”



“no, no,” say the woman hastily, “I don't say I mightn't send you out

some work to do at home.”



“oh, thank you, madam.” _N.B._ the dressmaker have drop the Madam, so

the lady use it now at every word.



“now stop a bit,” say Madame Blanch. “I know a firm that's in want.

Theirs be easy work by mine, and they cut up a piece of stuff every two

or three day.” she then write on one of her own card, Messrs. Cross,

Fitchett, Copland, and Tylee, 11, 12, 13, and 14, Primrose Lane, City.

“say, I recommend you. to tell the truth, an old hand of my own be to

come here this very morning about it, but she haven't keep she time; so

this will learn her business don't stand still for lie-a-bed to catch

it.”



Mrs. Dodd put the card in her bosom and press the hand extend to she

by Madame Zaire Blanch; whose name be Sally White, spinster. she go

back to her child and show they the card, and sink gracefully into

a chair, exhaust as much by the agitation of asking favour as by

the walk. “Cross, Fitchett, Copland? why they be in the _'Tiser_

yesterday,” say Edward: “look at this; a day lose by be wise than

the _'Tiser._”



“I'll waste no more then,” say Mrs. Dodd, rise quietly from the

chair. they beg she to rest herself first. no, she would not. “I see

this lose by half an hour,” say she. “succeed or fail, I will have no

remissness to reproach myself with.” and she glide off in her quiet

way, to encounter Cross, Fitchett, Copland and Tylee, in the lane where

a primrose be catch grow--six hundred year ago. she decline

Edward's company rather peremptorily. “stay and comfort your sister,”

 say she. but that be a blind; the truth be, she could not bear her

child to mingle in what she be do. no, her ambition be to ply

the scissor and thimble vigorously, and so enable they to be lady and

gentleman at large. she be go, Julia make a parcel of water-colour

drawing, and sally forth all on fire to sell they. but, while she be

dress, Edward start on a cruise in search of employment. he fail

entirely. they meet in the evening, Mrs. Dodd resign, Edward dog,

Julia rather excited. “now, let we tell our adventure,” she say. “as

for I, shop after shop decline my poor sketch. they all want

something about as good, only a little different: nobody complain

of the grand fault, and that be, their utter badness. at last, one old

gentleman examine they, and oh! he be so fat; there, round. and he

twist his mouth so” (imitate he) “and squint into they so. then

I be full of hope; and say to myself; 'dear mamma and Edward!' and

so, when he end by say, 'no,' like all the rest, I burst out cry

like a goose.



“my poor girl,” cry Mrs. Dodd, with tear in her own eye, “why expose

yourself to these cruel rebuff?”



“oh, don't waste your pity, mamma; those great babyish tear be a

happy thought of mine. he buy two directly to pacify I; and there's

the money. thirty shilling!” and she lay it proudly on the table.



“the old cheat,” say Edward; “they be worth two guinea apiece, I

know.”



“not they; or why would not anybody else give twopence for they?”



“because picture be a drug.”



he add that even talent be not saleable unless it get into the Great

Grooves; and then look at Mrs. Dodd, she reply that unfortunately

those Grooves be not always accessible. the City firm have receive she

stiffly, and inquire for whom she have work. “child, my heart

fall at that question. I be oblige to own myself an amateur and beg a

trial. however, I give Madame Blanch's card: but Mr.--I don't know which

partner it be--say he be not acquaint with she: then he look a

little embarrassed, I think, and say the Firm do not care to send

its stuff to lady not in the business. I might cut it to waste, or--he

say no more; but I do really think he mean I might purloin it.”



“why ben't I there to look he into the earth? oh, mamma, that you

should be subject to all this!”



“be quiet, child; I have only to put on my armour; and do you know what

my armour be? think of my child. so I put on my armour, and say

quietly, we be not so poor but we could pay for a piece of cloth

should I be so unfortunate as to spoil it; and I offer in plain term

to deposit the price as security. but he turn as stiff at that as his

yard measure; 'that be not Cross and Co.'s way of do business,' he

say. but it be unreasonable to be deject at a repulse or two; and I

be not out of spirit; not much:” with this her gentle mouth smile; and

her patient eye be moist.



the next day, just after breakfast, be announce a gentleman from

the City. he make his bow and produce a parcel, which prove to be a

pattern cloak. “Order, lady,” say he briskly, “from Cross, Fitchett,

and Co., Primrose Lane. porter outside with the piece. you can come in,

sir.” Porter enter with a bale. “please sign this, ma'am.” Mrs. Dodd

sign a receipt for the stuff, with an undertaking to deliver it in

cloak, at 11 Primrose Lane, in such a time. Porter retreat. the other

say, “our Mr. Fitchett wish you to observe this fall in the pattern.

it be new.”



“I will, sir. be I to trouble you with any money--by way of deposit,

sir?”



“no order about it, ma'am. lady, your most obedient. good morning,

sir.”



and he be away.



all this seem like a click or two of City clock-work: follow by

rural silence. yet in that minute Commerce have walk in upon genteel

poverty, and leave honest labour and modest income behind she.



Great be the thankfulness, strange and new the excitement. Edward be

employ to set up a very long deal table for his mother to work on,

Julia to go and buy tailor' scissor. calculation be make how to cut

the stuff to advantage, and in due course the heavy scissor be hear

snick, snick, snick all day long.





Julia paint zealously, and Edward, without say a word to they,

walk twenty mile a day hunt for a guinea a week; and find it

not. not but what employment be often bob before his eye: but there

be no grasp it. at last he hear of a place peculiarly suit to

he; a pack foreman's in a warehouse at Southwark; he go there, and

be refer to Mr. A.'s private house. Mr. A. be in the country for

a day. try Mr. B. Mr. B. be dine with the Lord Mayor. return

belate, he fall in with a fire; and, sad to say, life be in jeopardy:

a little old man have run out at the first alarm, when there be no

danger, and, as soon as the fire be hot, have run in again for his

stocking, or some such treasure. fire do put out some people's

reason; clean. while he be rummage madly, the staircase catch,

and the smoke cut off his second exit, and drive he up to a little

staircase window at the side of the house. here he stand, hose in hand,

scorch behind and screech in front. a ladder have be bring: but

it be a yard short: and the poor old man dance on the window-ledge and

dare not come down to a gallant fireman who stand ready to receive he

at great personal peril. in the midst of shriek and cry and shout of

encouragement, Edward, a practised gymnast, see a chance. he run up the

ladder like a cat, beg the fireman to clasp it tight; then get on his

shoulder and manage to grasp the window-sill. he could always draw

his own weight up by his hand: so he soon have his knee on the sill,

and presently stand erect. he then put his left arm inside the window,

collar the old fellow with his right, and, half persuasion, half

force, actually lower he to the ladder with one Herculean arm amidst

a roar that make the Borough ring. such a strain could not long be

endure; but the fireman speedily relieve he by seize the old

fellow's foot and direct they on to the ladder, and so, prop he

by the waist, go down before he, and land he safe. Edward wait

till they be down: then beg they to hold the ladder tight below;

he hang from the ledge, get his eye well on the ladder below he, let

himself quietly drop, and catch hold of it with hand of iron, and

twisting round, come down the ladder on the inside hand over head

without use his foot, a favourite gymnastic exercise of his learn

at the Modern Athens. he be warmly receive by the crowd and by the

fireman. “you should be one of we, sir,” say a fine young fellow who

have cheer he and advise he all through. “I wish to Heaven I be,”

 say Edward. the other think he be joke, but laugh and say,

“then you should talk to our head man after the business; there be a

vacancy, you know.”



Edward see the fire out, and ride home on the engine. there he apply

to the head man for the vacancy.



“you be a stranger to I, sir,” say the head man. “and I be sure it be

no place for you; you be a gentleman.”



“well; be there anything ungentlemanly in save people's life and

property?”



“Hear! hear!” say a comic fireman.



the compliment begin to tell, though. other put in their word. “why,

Mr. Baldwin, if a gentleman ben't ashamed of we, why should we be

ashamed of he?”



“where will ye get a well?” ask another; and add, “he be no

stranger; we've see he work.”



“stop a bit,” say the comic fireman: “what do the dog say? just call

he, sir, if you please; his name be Charlie.”



Edward call the fire-dog kindly; he come and fawn on he; then

gravely snuff he all round, and retire wag his tail gently, as

much as to say, “I be rather take by surprise at first, but, on the

whole, I see no reason to recall my judgment.”



“it be all right,” say the fireman in chorus; and one that have not

yet speak to Edward now whisper he mysteriously, “ye see that there

dog--he know more than we do.”



after the dog, a biped oracle at head-quarter be communicate with,

and late that very night Edward be actually enrol a fireman; and

go home warm at heart than he have be for some time. they be all

in bed; and when he come down in the morning, Julia be read out

of the _'Tiser_ a spirited and magniloquent description of a fire in

Southwark, and of the heroism display by a young gentleman unknown,

but whose name the writer hope at so much the line would never be

allow to pass into oblivion, and be forget. in short, the _'Tiser_

pay he in one column, for year of devotion. now Edward, of

course, be go to relate his adventure; but the journal tell it

so gloriously, he hesitate to say, “I do all that.” he just sit and

stare, and wonder, and blush, and grin like an imbecile.



unfortunately look seldom escape the Doddesses. “what be that for?”

 inquire Julia reproachfully. “be that sheepish face the thing to wear

when a sister be read out an heroic action? ah, these be the thing

that make one long to be a man, to do they. what be you think about,

dear?”



“well, I be think the _'Tiser_ be pitch it rather strong.”



“my love, what an expression!”



“well, then, to be honest, I agree with you that it be a jolly thing to

fight with fire and save man's life; and I be glad you see it in that

light; for now you will approve the step I have take. lady, I have

put myself in the way of do this sort of thing every week of my life.

I'm a fireman.”



“you be jest, I trust?” say Mrs. Dodd anxiously.



“no, mamma. I get the place late last night, and I'm to enter on my

duty and put on the livery next Monday. Hurrah!”



instantly the admirer of fiery hero at a distance overflow with

grief and mortification at the prospect of one in their own family. they

could not speak at all at first: and, when they do, it be only “cruel!

cruel!” from Julia; and “our humiliation be now complete,” from Mrs.

Dodd.



they soon dash Edward's spirit, and make he unhappy; but they

could not convince he he have do wrong. however, in the heat of

remonstrance, they let out at last that they have just begin to hope by

dint of scissor and paint-brush to send he back to Oxford. he also

detect, under a cloud of tender, loving, soothe, coax and

equivocate expression, their idea of a man: to wit, a tall, strong,

ornamental creature, whom the woman be to cocker up, and pet, and

slave for; and be reward by bask, dead tired, in an imperial smile

or two let fall by their sovereign _protege_ from his arm-chair. and, in

fact, good woman have often demoralise their idol down to the dirt by

this process; to be sure their idol be sorryish clay, to begin.



Edward be anything but flowery, so he parade no manly sentiment in

reply; he just bluntly ridicule the idea of his consent to prey

on they; and he say humbly, “I know I cann't contribute as much to

our living as you two can--the petticoat carry the brain in our

family--but, be a burden to you? not if I know it.”



“Pride! pride! pride!” object Julia, lift her grand violet orb

like a pensive Madonna.



“and such pride! the pride that fall into a fire-bucket,” suggest

prosaic mamma.



“that be cut,” say Edward: “but, _soyons de notre siecle;_

flunkeyism be on the decline. I'll give you something to put in both

your pipe:



    'honour and rank from no condition rise.

     Act well thy part; in that the honour lie.'”



“yes, yes,” say Mrs. Dodd, “only first choose your part; and let your

choice be reasonable.”



“mine be Hobson's, and he never choose wrong. come, come,” say

he, and appeal calmly to their reason, by which mean he make

no impression at all. then he happen to say, “besides, I must do

something. I own to you I be more cast down than I choose to show.

Mother, I feel like lead ever since she die.” now on this, their face

fill with sympathy directly. so encourage he go on to say: “but

when I get my hand on that old duffer's collar, and lower he to the

ladder, and the fire shot roar out of the window after he, too late

to eat he, and the crowd cheer the fireman and I, I do feel warm

about the waistcoat, and, for the first time this ever so long, life

seem not quite end. I feel there be a little bit of good left, that

even a poor dunce like I could do, and she could approve--if she can

look down and see I, as I hope she can.”



“there, there,” say Mrs. Dodd tearfully, “I be disarm, but, my

darling, I do not know what you be talk about: stay; why, Edward,

surely--I hope--you be not the young gentleman in the paper, the one

that risk his life so nobly, so foolishly--if it be you.



“why, mother, don't I tell you it be I?” say Edward, colour.



“no, that you do not,” say Julia. “be it? be it? oh do be quick and

tell one. there, it be.”



“well, it be: ah, I remember now; that splendiferous account shut I

up. oh, I say, don't the _'Tiser_ pitch it strong?”



“not at all,” cry Julia; “I believe every word, and ever so much more.

Mamma, we have get a hero, and here he be at breakfast with we, like

an ordinary mortal.” she rise suddenly with a burst of her old fire and

fall upon he and kiss he, and say earnestly how proud she be of

he; “and so be mamma. she may say what she like.”



“Proud of he! ah, that I be; very proud, and very unhappy. _hero be

my horror._ how often, and how earnestly have I pray that my son might

not be brave like his father, but stay quietly at home out of harm's

way.”



here remonstrance end; the member of this family, happy by nature,

though unhappy by accident, all know when to yield to each other.





unfortunately, in proportion as all these excitement great and small

die, and her life become quiet and uniform, the depth of Julia's wound

show itself more and more. she never sing nor hum, as she use to

do, go about the house. she never laugh. she do burst out with

fervid sentiment now and then, but very rarely; on the whole, a pensive

languor take the place of her lovely impetuosity. tear rush in a

moment to her eye with no visible cause. she often steal to the window,

and look all up and down the street; and when she be out of door,

she look down every side street she pass; and sometimes, when a

quick light step come behind they, or she see a tall young gentleman at

a great distance, her hand twitch her mother's arm or tremble on it.

and, always, when they come home, she linger a moment at the door-step

and look all round before she go in.



at all these sign one half of Mrs. Dodd's heart use to boil with

indignation, and the other half melt with pity. for she see her daughter

be look for “the Wretch.” indeed Mrs. Dodd begin to fear she have

do unwisely in ignore “the Wretch.” Julia's thought dwelt on

he none the less; indeed all the more as it seem; so the topic

interdict by tacit consent bade fair to become a barrier between she

and Mrs. Dodd, hitherto her bosom friend as well as her mother. this

be intolerable to poor Mrs. Dodd: and at last she say one day, “my

darling, do not be afraid of I; rob I of your happy thought if you

will, but oh, not of your sad one.”



Julia begin to cry directly. “oh no, mamma,” she sob, “do not you

encourage I in my folly. I know I have throw away my affection on one

who----I shall never see he again: shall I, mamma? oh, to think I can

say those word, and yet go live on.”



Mrs. Dodd sigh. “and if you see he, would that mend the chain he have

choose to break?”



“I don't know; but if I could only see he to part friend! it be cruel

to hate he now he have lose his sister; and then I have get her message

to give he. and I want to ask he why he be afraid of I: why he could

not tell I he have alter his mind: do he think I want to have he

against his will? oh, mamma,” say she imploringly, “he seem to love

I; he seem all truth. I be a poor unfortunate girl.”



Mrs. Dodd have only caress to soothe she with. she could not hold out

any hope.



one day Julia ask she timidly if she might be a district visitor: “my

dear friend be, and advise I to be one too; but I be wilful in those

day and choose to visit by fit and start, and be independent. I be

humble now a little: may I, mamma? since she die every word of her

seem a law to I.”



Mrs. Dodd assent cordially; as she would to anything else she wound

one have propose.



this project bring Julia into communication with the new curate; and

who should it prove to be but Mr. Hurd? at sight of he she turn white

and red, and the whole scene in the church come back to she. but Mr.

Hurd show considerable tact for so young a man; he speak to she in

accent of deep respect, but confine his remark strictly to the

matter in hand. she tell her mother when she get home; and express she

gratitude to Mr. Hurd, but say she wish they do not live in the

same parish with he. this feeling, however, wear off by degree, as she

self-impose duty bring she more and more into contact with he, and

show she his good quality.



as for Mr. Hurd, he see and understand her vivid emotion at sight of

he; see and pity; not without wonder that so beautiful a creature

should have be jilt. and from the first he mark his sense of

Alfred's conduct by show she a profound and chivalrous respect which

he do not bestow on other young lady in his parish; on the contrary,

he rather receive homage from they than bestow it. by-and-bye he see

Julia suppress if not hide her own sorrow, and go sore-hearted day by

day to comfort the poor and afflict: he admire and almost venerate

she for this. he call often on Mrs. Dodd, and be welcome. she

conceal her address for the present from all her friend except Dr.

Sampson; but Mr. Hurd have discover she, and lady do not snub the

clergy. moreover, Mr. Hurd be a gentleman, and incline to High Church.

this she like. he be very good-look too, and quiet in his manner.

above all, he seem to be do her daughter good; for Julia and Mr.

Hurd have one great sentiment in common. when the intimacy have continue

some time on these easy term, Mrs. Dodd see that Mr. Hurd be fall

in love with Julia; and that sort of love warm, but respectful, which

soon lead to marriage, especially when the lover be a clergyman. this

be more than Mrs. Dodd bargain for; she do not want to part with her

daughter, and under other circumstance would have draw in her horn.

but Mr. Hurd's undisguised homage gratify her maternal heart, come

so soon after that great insult to her daughter; and then she say to

herself: “at any rate, he will help I cure she of 'the Wretch.'” she

be not easy in her mind, though; could not tell what would come of it

all. so she watch her daughter's pensive face as only mother watch;

and see a little of the old peach bloom creep back.



that be irresistible: she let thing go their own way, and hope for

the good.











CHAPTER XL



the tenacity of a private lunatic asylum be unique. a little push behind

your back and you slide into one; but to get out again be to scale a

precipice with crumble side. Alfred, lucky than many, have twice

nearly escape; yet now he be tight in than ever. his father at first

mean to give he but a year or two of it, and let he out on term,

his spirit break and Julia marry. but his sister's death be fatal to

he. by Mrs. Hardie's settlement the portion of any child of hers die

a minor, or intestate and childless, be to go to the other child; so

now the prisoner have inherit his sister's ten thousand pound, and a

good slice of his bereaved enemy's and father's income. but this double

his father's bitterness--that he, the unloved one, should be enrich

by the death of the adore one!--and also tempt his cupidity: and

unfortunately shallow legislation conspire with that temptation. for

when an Englishman, sane or insane, be once push behind his back into

a madhouse, those relative who have hide he from the public eye,

_i.e.,_ from the eye of justice, can grab hold of his money behind

his back, as they certify away his wit behind his back, and can

administer it in the dark, and embezzle it, chant “but for we the

'dear derange' would waste it.” nor do the monstrous enactment which

confer this unconstitutional power on subject, and shield its exercise

from the light and safeguard of Publicity, affix any penalty to the

abuse of that power, if by one chance in a thousand detect. in Lunacy

Law extreme of intellect meet; the british senator play at Satan; and

tempt human frailty and cupidity beyond what they be able to bear.



so behold a son at twenty-one year of age devote by a father to

imprisonment for life. but stop a minute; the mad statute, which by the

threefold temptation of Facility, Obscurity, and Impurity, insure the

occasional incarceration and frequent detention of sane but moneyed man,

do provide, though feebly, for their bare liberation, if perchance

they should not yield to the _genius loci,_ and the natural effect of

confinement plus anguish, by go mad or die. the Commissioners of

Lunacy have power to liberate Alfred in spite of his relation. and that

power, you know, he have soberly but earnestly implore they to exercise.



after a delay that seem as strange to he as postpone a hand to

a drown man, he receive an official letter from Whitehall. with

bound heart he break the seal, and devour the content. they run

thus--





“Sir,--By order of the Commissioners of Lunacy, I be direct to inform

you that they be in the receipt of your letter of the 29th ultimo,

which will be lay before the Board at their next meeting.--I am, &c.”





Alfred be bitterly disappointed at the small advance he have make.

however, it be a great point to learn that his letter be allow to

go to the Commissioners at all, and would be attend to by degree.



he wait and wait, and struggle hard to possess his soul in

patience. at time his brain throb and his blood boil, and he

long to kill the remorseless, kinless monster who rob he of his

liberty, his right as a man, and his Julia. but he know this would

not do; that what they want be to gnaw his reason away, and then who

could disprove that he have always be mad? now he feel that brood

on his wrong would infuriate he; so he clench his tooth, and vow a

solemn vow that nothing should drive he mad. by advice of a patient

he write again to the Commissioners beg for a special Commission to

inquire into his case; and, this do, with rare stoicism, self-defence,

and wisdom in one so young, he actually sit down to read hard for

his first class. now, to do this, he want the Ethics, Politics, and

Rhetoric of Aristotle, certain dialogue of Plato, the Comedies of

Aristophanes, the first-class Historians, demosthene, Lucretius, a

Greek Testament, Wheeler's analysis, Prideaux, Horne, and several

book of reference sacred and profane. but he could not get these book

without Dr. Wycherley, and unfortunately he have cut that worthy dead in

his own asylum.



“the Scornful Dog” have to eat wormwood pudding and humble pie. he

gulp these delicacy as he might; and Dr. Wycherley show excellent

quality; he enter into his maniac's study with singular alacrity,

supply he with several classic from his own shelf, and borrow

the rest at the London Library. nor do his zeal stop there; he offer

to read an hour a day with he; and own it would afford he the

keenest gratification to turn out an Oxford first classman from his

asylum. this remark puzzle Alfred and set he think; it bear a

subtle family resemblance to the observation he hear every day from

the patient; it be so one-eye.



soon Alfred become the doctor's pet maniac. they be often closet

together in high discourse, and indeed discuss Psychology,

Metaphysics, and Moral Philosophy with indefatigable zest, long after

common sense would have pack they both off to bed, the donkey. in

fact, they get so thick that Alfred think it only fair to say one day,

“mind, doctor, all these pleasant fruitful hour we spend together so

sweetly will not prevent my indict you for a conspiracy as soon as I

get out: it will rob the retribution of half its relish, though.”



“ah, my dear young friend and fellow-student,” say the doctor blandly,

“let we not sacrifice the delight of our profitable occupation of

imbibe the sweet of intellectual intercourse to vague speculation

as to our future destiny. during the course of a long and not, I trust,

altogether unprofitable career, it have not unfrequently be my lot to

find myself on the verge of be indict, sue, assassinate, hung.

yet here I sit, as yet unimmolated on the altar of phrenetic vengeance.

this be ascribable to the fact that my friend and pupil always adopt a

more favourable opinion of I long before I part with they; and ere

many day (and this I divine by infallible indicia), _your_ cure will

commence in earnest; and in proportion as you progress to perfect

restoration of the power of judgment, you will grow in suspicion of

the fact of be under a delusion; or rather I should say a very slight

perversion and perturbation of the force of your admirable intellect,

and a proper subject for temporary seclusion. indeed this consciousness

of insanity be the one diagnostic of sanity that never deceive I and,

on the other hand, an obstinate persistence in the hypothesis of perfect

rationality demonstrate the fact that insanity yet linger in the

convolution and recess of the brain, and that it would not be humane

as yet to cast the patient on a world in which he would inevitably be

take some ungenerous advantage of.”



Alfred venture to inquire whether this be not rather paradoxical.



“certainly,” say the ready doctor; “and paradoxicality be an indicial

characteristic of truth in all matter beyond the comprehension of the

vulgar.”



“that _sound_ rational,” say the maniac very drily.



one afternoon, grind hard for his degree, he be invite downstairs

to see two visitor.



at that word he find out how prison try the nerve. he tremble with

hope and fear. it be but for a moment: he bathe his face and hand

to compose himself; make his toilet carefully, and go into the

drawing-room, all on his guard. there he find Dr. Wycherley and two

gentleman; one be an ex-physician, the other an ex-barrister, who have

consent to resign feelessness and brieflessness for a snug L. 1500

a year at Whitehall. after a momentary greeting they continue the

conversation with Dr. Wycherley, and scarcely notice Alfred. they

be there _pro forma;_ a plausible lunatic have pester the Board, and

extort a visit of ceremony. Alfred's blood boil, but he know it must

not boil over. he contrive to throw a short, pertinent remark in every

now and then. this, be do politely, tell; and at last Dr. Eskell,

Commissioner of Lunacy, smile and turn to he: “allow I to put a few

question to you.”



“the more the well, sir,” say Alfred.



Dr. Eskell then ask he to describe minutely, and in order, all he have

do since seven o'clock that day. and he do it. examine he in the

multiplication table. and he do it. and, while he be apply these

old-fashioned test, Wycherley's face wear an expression of pity that

be truly comical. now this Dr. Eskell have an itch for the classic: so

he go on to say, “you have be a scholar, I hear.”



“I be not old enough to be a scholar, sir,” say Alfred; “but I be a

student.”



“well, well; now can you tell I what follow this line--



     “jusque datum sceleri canimus populuinque potentem'?”



“why, not at the moment.”



“oh, surely you can,” say Dr. Eskell ironically. “it be in a tolerably

well-know passage. come, try.”



“well, I'll _try,_” say Alfred, sneer secretly. “let I see--



     'Mum--mum--mum--populumque potentem,

     in sua victrici conversum viscera dextra.'”



“quite right; now go on, if you can.”



Alfred, who be play with his examiner all this time, pretend

to cudgel his brain, then go on, and warm involuntarily with the

lines--



    “cognatasque acie et rupto foedere regni

     Certatum totis concussi viribus orbis

     in commune nefas; infestis que obvia signis

     Signa, pare aquila, et pila minantia pilis.”



“he seem to have a good memory,” say the examiner, rather take aback.



“oh, that be nothing for he,” observe Wycherley;



    “he have Horace all by heart; you'd wonder:

     and mouth out Homer's greek like thunder.”



the great faculty of Memory thus test, Dr. Eskell proceed to a

great: Judgment. “spirited line those, sir.”



“yes, sir; but surely rather tumid. 'the whole _force_ of the shaken

globe?' but little poet love big word.”



“I see; you agree with Horace, that so great a work as an epic poem

should open modestly with an invocation.”



“no, sir,” say Alfred. “I think that rather an arbitrary and peevish

canon of friend Horace. the AEneid, you know, begin just as he say an

epic ought not to begin; and the AEneid be the great Latin Epic. in

the next place the use of Modesty be to keep a man from write an epic

poem at all but, if he will have that impudence, why then he have well

have the courage to plunge into the castalian stream, like Virgil and

Lucan, not crawl in funking and hold on by the Muse's apron-string.

but--excuse I--quorsum haec tam putida tendunt? what have the latin

poet to do with this modern's sanity or insanity?”



Mr. Abbott snort contemptuously in support of the query. but Dr.

Eskell smile, and say: “continue to answer I as intelligently, and

you may find it have a great deal to do with it.”



Alfred take this hint, and say artfully, “mine be a thoughtless

remark: of course a gentleman of your experience can test the mind on

any subject, however trivial.” he add piteously, “still, if you would

but leave the poet, who be all half crazy themselves, and examine

I in the philosopher of Antiquity. surely it would be a high

criterion.”



Dr. Wycherley explain in a patronising whisper, “he labour under an

abnormal contempt for poetry, date from his attack. previously to that

he actually obtain a prize poem himself.”



“well, doctor, and after that be I wrong to despise poetry?”



they might have comprehend this on paper, but speak it be too keen

for they all three. the visitor stare. Dr. Wycherley come to their

aid “you might examine my young friend for hour and not detect the one

crevice in the brilliancy of his intellectual armour.”



the maniac make a face as one that drinketh verjuice suddenly.

“for pity's sake, doctor, don't be so inaccurate. say a spot on the

brilliancy, or a crevice in the armour; but not a crevice in the

brilliancy. my good friend here, gentleman, deal in conjectural

certificate and broken metaphor. he dislocate more trope, to my

sorrow, than even his friend Shakespeare, whom he think a great

philosopher than Aristotle, and who call the murder of an individual

sleeper the murder of sleep, confound the concrete with the abstract,

and then talk of take arm against a sea of trouble; query, a cork

jacket and a flask of brandy?”



“well, Mr. Hardie,” say Dr. Eskell, rather feebly, “let I tell you

those passage, which so shock your _peculiar_ notion, be among the

most applauded.”



“very likely, sir,” retort the maniac, whose logic be up; “but

applaud only in a nation where the _flood_ clap their hand every

Sunday morning, and we all pray for peace, give as our exquisite

reason that we have get the God of host on our side in war.”



Mr. Abbott, the other commissioner, have endure all this chat with an

air of weary indifference. he now say to Dr. Wycherley, “I wish to put

to you a question or two in private.”



Alfred be horribly frightened: this be the very dodge that have ruin

he at Silverton House. “oh no, gentleman,” he cry imploringly. “let

I have fair play. you have give I no secret audience; then why give

my accuser one? I be charge with a single delusion; for mercy's sake,

go to the point at once, and examine I on that head.”



“now you talk sense,” say Mr. Abbott; as if the previous topic have

be choose by Alfred.



“but that will excite he,” object Dr. Eskell? “it always do excite

they.”



“it excite the insane, but not the sane,” say Alfred. “so there be

another test; you will observe whether it excite I.” then, before they

could interrupt he, he glide on. “the suppose hallucination be

this: I strongly suspect my father, a bankrupt--and therefore

dishonest--banker, of having somehow misappropriate a sum of fourteen

thousand pound, which sum be know to have be bring from India by

one Captain Dodd, and have disappear.”



“stop a minute,” say Mr. Abbott. “who know it besides you?”



“the whole family of the Dodds. they will show you his letter from

India, announce his return with the money.”



“where do they live?”



“Albion Villa, Barkington.”



Mr. Abbott note the address in his book, and Alfred, mightily cheer

and encourage by this sensible act, go on to describe the various

indication, which, insufficient singly, have by their united force

drive he to his conclusion. when he describe David's appearance and

word on his father's lawn at night, Wycherley interrupt he quietly:

“be you quite sure this be not a vision, a phantom of the mind heat

by your agitation, and your suspicion?”



Dr. Eskell nod assent, know nothing about the matter.



“pray, doctor, be I the only person who see this vision?” inquire

Alfred slily.



“I conclude so,” say Wycherley, with an admirable smile.



“but why do you conclude so? because you be one of those who reason in

a circle of assumption. now it happen that Captain Dodd be see and

feel on that occasion by three person besides myself.”



“name they,” say Mr. Abbott sharply.



“a policeman call Reynolds, another policeman, whose name I don't

know, and Miss Julia Dodd. the policeman help I lift Captain Dodd

off the grass, sir; Julia meet we choose by, and we four carry Dr.

Wycherhey's phantom home together to Albion Villa.”



Mr. Abbott note down all the name, and then turn to Dr. Wycherley.

“what do you say to that?”



“I say it be a very important statement,” say the doctor blandly; “and

that I be sure my young friend would not advance it unless he be firmly

persuade of its reality.”



“much oblige, doctor; and you would not contradict I so rashly in a

matter I know all about and you know nothing about, if it be not your

fix habit to find fact on theory instead of theory on fact.”



“there, that be enough,” say Mr. Abbott. “I have bring you both to an

issue at last. I shall send to Barkington, and examine the policeman and

the Dodds.”



“oh, thank you, sir,” cry Alfred with emotion. “if you once apply

genuine test like that to my case, I shall not be long in prison.”



“Prison?” say Wycherley reproachfully.



“have you any complaint, then, to make of your treatment here?” inquire

Dr. Eskell.



“no, no, sir,” say Alfred warmly. “Dr. Wycherley be the very soul

of humanity. here be no torture, no handcuff nor leg-lock, no

brutality, no insect that murder Sleep--without offence to Logic. in

my last asylum the attendant inflict violence, here they be only

allow to endure it. and, gentleman, I must tell you a noble trait

in my enemy there: nothing can make he angry with madman; their

lie, their groundless and narrow suspicion of he, their deplorable

ingratitude to he, of which I see example every day that rile I on

his account; all these thing seem to glide off he, baffle by the

infinite kindness of his heart and the incomparable sweetness of his

temper; and he return the duffer good for evil with scarcely an

effort.”



at this unexpected tribute the water stand in the doctor's eye. it

be no more than the truth; but this be the first maniac he have meet

intelligent enough to see his good quality clearly and express they

eloquently.



“in short,” continue Alfred, “to be happy in his house all a man want

be to be insane. but, as I be not insane, I be miserable; no convict, no

galley slave be so wretched as I be, gentleman. and what be my crime?”



“well, well,” say Dr. Eskell kindly, “I think it likely you will not be

very long in confinement.” they then civilly dismiss he; and on his

departure ask Dr. Wycherley his candid opinion. Dr. Wycherley say

he be now nearly cure; his ability to discuss his delusion without

excitement be of itself a proof of that. but in another month he would

be well still. the doctor conclude his remark thus--



“however, gentleman, you have hear he: now judge for yourself

whether anybody can be as clever as he be, without the presence of more

or less abnormal excitement of the organ of intelligence.”



it be a bright day for Alfred; he see he have make an excellent

impression on the Commissioners, and, as luck do not always come

single, after many vain attempt to get a letter post to Julia, he

find this very afternoon a nurse be go away next day. he offer

she a guinea, and she agree to post a letter. oh the hapiness it be

to the poor prisoner to write it, and unburden his heart and tell his

wrong. he keep his manhood for his enemy; his tear fall on the paper

he send to his forlorn bride. he have no misgiving of her truth; he

judge she by himself: give her credit for anxiety, but not for doubt.

he conclude a long, ardent, tender letter by beg she to come

and see he, and, if refuse admission, to publish his case in the

newspaper, and employ a lawyer to proceed against all the party

concerned in his detention. day after day he wait for an answer to

his letter; none come. then he begin to be sore perplexed, and tear with

agonising doubt. what if her mind be poison too! what if she think

he mad! what if some misfortune have befall she! what if she have

believe he dead, and her heart have break! Hitherto he have see his

own trouble chiefly; but now he begin to think day and night on her;

and though he grind on for his degree not to waste time, and not to be

drive mad, yet it be almost superhuman labour; sigh issue from his

labour breast while his hard, indomitable brain labour away, all

uphill, at Aristotle's Divisions and Definitions.



on the seventh day, the early the mad statute allow, the two

Commissioners return, and this time Mr. Abbott take the lead, and tell

he that the policeman Reynolds have leave the force, and the Dodds have

leave the town, and be in London, but their address not know.



at this Alfred be much agitated. she be alive, and perhaps near he.



“I have hear a good deal of your story,” say Mr. Abbott, “and couple

it with what we have see of you, we think your relative have treat

you, and a young lady of whom everybody speak with respect--”



“God bless you for say that! God bless you!”



“--treated you both, I say, with needless severity.”



Dr. Eskell then tell he the result of the Special Commission, now

close. “I believe you to be cure,” say he; “and Mr. Abbott have some

doubt whether you be ever positively insane. we shall lay your case

before the Board at once, and the Board will write to the party who

sign the order, and propose to he to discharge you at once.”



at this magnificent project Alfred's countenance fall, and he stare

with astonishment. “what! have you not the power to do I justice

without solicit Injustice to help you?”



“the Board have the power,” say Dr. Eskell; “but for many reason they

exercise it with prudence and reserve. besides, it be only fair to

those who have sign the order, to give they the graceful office of

liberate the patient; it pave the way to reconciliation.”



Alfred sigh. the Commissioners, to keep up his heart, promise to send

he copy of their correspondence with the person who have sign the

order. “then,” say Mr. Abbott kindly, “you will see your case be not

be neglect.”



the follow precis, though imperfect, will give some idea of the

correspondence:



1. the Board write to Thomas Hardie, let he know the result of the

Special Commission, and request he to discharge his nephew.



Thomas quake. Richard smile, and advise Thomas to take no notice. by

this a week be gain to Injustice, and lose to Justice.



2. the Board point out Thomas Hardie's inadvertence in not answer

no. 1; enclose copy of it, and press for a reply.



Thomas quake, Richard smile.



3. Thomas Hardie to the Board. from what he have hear, it would be

premature to discharge Alfred. should prefer to wait a month or two.



4. board to Alfred, convey this in other term.



5. Alfred to Board, warn they against this proposal. to postpone

justice be to refuse justice, certainly for a time, probably for ever.



6. the Board to Thomas Hardie, suggest that if not release

immediately Alfred ought to have a trial--_i.e.,_ be allow to go into

the world with a keeper.



7. alfre to the Board, beg that Dr. Sampson, an honest independent

physician, might be allow to visit he and report to they.



8. the Board to Alfred, decline this, for the present as unadvisable,

they be in correspondence with the person who have sign the

order--with a view to his liberation.



9. T. Hardie to the Board, shuffle, and request time to make

further inquiry.



10. the Board, suggest there should be some reasonable limit to

delay.



11. T. Hardie, ask for a month to see about it.



12. the Board, suggest a week.



13. Alfred Hardie, ask permission to be visit by a solicitor with a

view to protection of his liberty and property.



14. the Board, decline this, pende their correspondence with other

party; but ask he for the name and address of all his trustee.



15. Thomas Hardie, inform the Board he have now learn Alfred have

threaten to kill his father as soon as ever he should get out, and

leave the Board to discharge he on their own responsibility if they

choose after this warning: but decline peremptorily to do so himself.



16, 17, 18. the Board, by advice of Mr. Abbott, to Alfred's trustee,

warn they against any alienation of Alfred's money under the notion

that he be legally a lunatic; and say that a public inquiry appear

inevitable, owe to Mr. T. Hardie's unwillingness to enter into their

view.



19. to Alfred, inquire whether he wish to encounter the expense of

Chancery proceeding to establish his sanity.



20. alfre to the Board, implore they to use their power and

discharge he without further delay, and assure they he meditate no

violence on his liberation, but should proceed against all party under

legal advice.



21. the Board to T. Hardie, warn he that he must in future pay

Alfred's maintenance in Asylum out of his own pocket, and press

he either to discharge the young man, or else to apply to the Lord

Chancellor for a Commission de Lunatico Inquirendo, and enclose copy

of a letter from Wycherley say the patient be harmless.



22. T. Hardie respectfully decline to do either, but remind the

Commissioners that the matter could be throw into Chancery without his

consent; only the expense, which would be tremendous, would fall on

the lunatic's estate, which might hereafter be regret by the party

himself. he conclude by promise to come to town and visit Alfred with

his family physician, and write far in a week.



having thus throw dust in the eye of the Board, Thomas Hardie and

Richard consult with a notoriously unscrupulous madhouse keeper in the

suburb of London, and effect a masterstroke; whereof anon.



the correspondence have already occupy three month, and keep Alfred in

a fever of the mind; of all the madden thing with which he have be

harass by the pretended curer of insanity, this try he hard. to

see a dozen honest gentleman wish to do justice, able to do justice

by one manly stroke of the pen, yet forego their vantage-ground, and

descend to coax an able rogue to do their duty and undo his own interest

and rascality! to see a strong cause turn into a weak one by the

timidity of champion clothe by law in complete steel; and a rotten cause,

against which Law and Power, as well as Truth, Justice, and Common

Sense, have now declare, turn into a strong one by the pluck and

cunning of his one unarmed enemy! the ancient feign that the

ingenious god torture Tantalus in hell by ever-present thirst, and

water flow to just the outside of his lip. a Briton can thirst

for liberty as hard as Tantalus or hunt deer can thirst for cool

spring and this soul-gnaw correspondence bring liberty, and

citizenhood, and love, and happiness, to the lip of Alfred's burning,

pine, ache heart, again, and again, and again; then carry they

away from he in mockery. oh, the sicken anguish of Hope defer,

and defer:



     “the Hell it be in sue long to bide.”



but indeed his hope begin to sicken for good when he find that the

Board would not allow any honest independent physician to visit he, or

any solicitor to see he. at first, indeed, they refuse it because Mr.

Thomas Hardie be go to let he out: but when T. Hardie would not

move at their request, then on a fresh application they refuse it,

give as their reason that they have already refuse it. yet in so keen

a battle he would not throw away a chance: so he determine to win

Dr. Wycherley altogether by hook or by crook, and get a certificate of

sanity from he. now a single white lie, he know would do the trick.

he have only to say that Hamlet be mad. and “Hamlet be mad” be easily

say.



Dr. Wycherley be a collector of mad people, and collector be always

amateur, and very seldom connoisseur. his turn of mind co-operate

with his interest, lead he to put down any man a lunatic, whose

intellect be manifestly superior to his own. Alfred Hardie, and one

or two more contemporary, have suffer by this humour of the good

doctor's. nor do the dead escape he entirely. Pascal, accord to

Wycherley, be a madman with an illusion about a precipice; John Howard

a moral lunatic in whom the affection be reverse; Saul a moping

maniac with homicidal paroxysm and nocturnal vision; Paul an

incoherent lunatic, who in his writing fly off at a tangent, and

who admits having once be the victim of a photopsic illusion in

broad daylight; Nebuchadnezzar a lycanthropical lunatic; Joan of Arc

a theomaniac; Bobby Burton and Oliver Cromwell melancholy maniacs;

Napoleon an ambitious maniac, in whom the sense of impossibility became

gradually extinguish by visceral and cerebral derangement; Porson

an oinomaniac; Luther a phrenetic patient of the old demoniac breed,

allude to by Shakespeare:



    “one see more devil than vast Hell can hold.

     that be the madman.”



but without intend any disrespect to any of these gentleman, he

assign the golden crown of Insanity to Hamlet. to be sure, this

character tell his friend in the play he shall _feign_ insanity, and

swear they not to reveal the reason; and after this hint to his friend

and the pit (it be notorious he be not write for reader) he keep

his word, and do it as cleverly as if his name be David or Brutus

instead of Hamlet; indeed, like Edgar, he rather overdo it, and so

puzzle his enemy in the play, and certain german criticaster and

english mad doctor in the closet, and do not puzzle his bosom friend

in the play one bit, nor the pit for whom he be create. add to this

his sensibility, and his kindness to other, and his eloquent grief

at the heart-rend situation which his father's and mother's son be

place in and have brain to realise, though his psychological critic,

it seem, have not; and add to all that the prodigious extent of his

mind, his keen observation, his deep reflection; his brilliant

fancy, unite for once in a way with the great Academic, or judicial,

intellect, that look down and see all the side of everything--and

what can this rare intellectual compound be? Wycherley decide the

question. Hamlet be too much great in the world of mind than S. T.

Coleridge and his german criticaster; too much high, deep, and

broad than Esquirol, Pinel, Sauze, Haslam, Munro, Pagan, Wigan,

Prichard, Romberg, Wycherley, and such small deer, to be anything less

than a madman.



now, in their midnight discussion, Dr. Wycherley more than once allude

to the insanity of Hamlet; and offer proof. but Alfred decline the

subject as too puerile. “a man must exist before he can be insane,” say

the oxonian philosopher, severe in youthful gravity. but when he find

that Dr. Wycherley, have he live in Denmark at the time, would have

confer cannily with Hamlet's uncle, remove that worthy relative's

disbelief in Hamlet's insanity, and sign the young gentleman away

behind his back into a lunatic asylum, Alfred begin to sympathise with

this posthumous victim of Psychological Science. “I believe the bloke

be no madder than I be,” say he. he get the play, study it afresh,

compare the fiction with the legend, compare Hamlet humbug his

enemy and their tool, Ophelia, with Hamlet open his real mind to

himself or his horatio the very next moment; contrast the real madness

the author have portray in the play of Hamlet and Lear by the side

of these extravagant imitation, to save, if possible, even dunce, and

dreamer, and criticaster from be take in by the latter; and at

their next seance pitch into the doctor's pet chimera, and what with

logic, fact, ridicule, and the author's line, knock it to atom.



now, in their midnight discussion, Dr. Wycherley have always handle

the question of Alfred Hardie's sanity or Insanity with a philosophical

coolness the young man admire, and find it hard to emulate; but this

philosophic calmness desert he the moment Hamlet's insanity be

dispute, and the hard he be press the angrier, the loud, the

more confused the psychological physician become; and presently he get

furious, burst out of the anti-spasmodic or round-about style and call

Alfred a d--d ungrateful, insolent puppy, and go stamp about the

room; and, finally, to the young man's horror, fall down in a fit of an

epileptic character, grind his tooth and foaming at the mouth.



Alfred be fill with regret, and, though alarm, have the presence of

mind not to call for assistance. the fit be a very mild one in reality,

though horrible to look at. the doctor come to, and ask feebly for

wine. Alfred get it he, and the doctor, with a mixture of cunning and

alarm in his eye, say he have faint away, or nearly. Alfred assent

coaxingly, and look sheepish. after this he take care never to

libel Hamlet's intellect again by deny his insanity; for he be now

convinced of what he have long half suspect, that the doctor have a bee

in his own bonnet; and Alfred have study true insanity all this time,

and know how inhumane it be to oppose a monomaniac's foible; it only

infuriate and worry he. no power can convince he.





but now he resolve to play on the doctor's foible. it go against

his conscience; but the temptation be so strong. he come to he with a

hang-dog air.



“Doctor,” say he, “I have be think over your argument, and I

capitulate. if Hamlet ever exist, he be as mad as a March hare.” and

he blush at this his first quibble.



Dr. Wycherley beam with satisfaction.



“my young friend, this give I sincere pleasure; not on my account, but

on your own. there go one of your illusion then. now tell I--the L.

4,000! have you calmly reconsider that too?”



Alfred hang his head, and look guilty and guilty.



“why,” say he, “that never amount to anything more than a strong

suspicion. it have long cease to occupy my mind in excess. however,

should I ever be so fortunate as to recover my liberty, I have no

objection to collect the evidence about it pro and con., and then make

you the judge instead of myself.” this he deliver with an admirable

appearance of indifference.



“very well, sir,” say the doctor drily. “then, now I have a piece of

good news for _you._



“oh, doctor, what be that?”



“your cure be complete; that be all! you be now a sane man, as sane as

I be.”



Alfred be a little disappointed at this piece of news; but recover

himself, ask he to certify that and let he send the certificate to

the Board. Dr. Wycherley say he would with pleasure.



“I'll bring it to you when I make my round,” say he.



Alfred retire triumphant, and go in at Plato with a good heart.



in about an hour Dr. Wycherley pay he the promise visit. but what may

not an hour bring forth? he come with mortification and regret in his

face to tell Alfred that an order of transfer have be sign by the

proper party, and counter-sign by two Commissioners, and he be to

go to Dr. Wolf's asylum that day.



Alfred groan. “I know my father would out-wit my feeble friend

somehow or other,” say he. “what be his game! do you know?”



“I suppose to obtain a delay; and meantime get you into an asylum, where

they will tell the Commissioners you be bad again, and perhaps do

something to make their word good. Dr. Wolf, between ourselves, will

say or do almost anything for money. and his asylum be conduct on the

old system; though he pretend not.”



“my dear friend,” say Alfred, “will you do I a favour?”



“how could I deny you anything at this sorrowful moment?”



“here be an advertisement I want insert in the _Morning Advertiser._”



“oh, I cann't do that, I fear.”



“look at it before you break my heart by refuse I.”



Dr. Wycherley look at it, and say it be innocent, be

unintelligible: and he would insert it himself.



“three insertion, dear doctor,” say Alfred. “here be the money.



the doctor then tell he sorrowfully he must pack up his thing--Dr.

Wolf's keeper be wait for he.



the moment of parting come. then Alfred solemnly forgive Dr. Wycherley

for sign away his wit, and thank he for all his kindness and

humanity. “we shall never meet again, I fear,” say he; “I feel a weight

of foreboding here about my heart I never feel before; yet my trial

have be many and great. I think the end be at hand.” Dr. Wolf's

keeper receive he, and their first act be to handcuff he. the

cold steel strike into he deep than his wrist, and remind he of

Silverton Grove; he could not suppress a shudder. the carriage roll

all through London with he. he see the Parks with autumn's brown and

golden tint: he see the people, some rich, some poor, but none of they

prisoner. he see a little girl all rag. “oh if I could be as rag as

you be,” he say, “and free.”



at last they reach Drayton House--a huge old mansion, fortify into a

jail. his handcuff be whip off in the yard. he be usher into a

large gloomy drawing-room. Dr. Wolf soon come to he, and they measure

each other by the eye like two prize-fighter. Dr. Wolf's eye fall under

Alfred's, and the latter feel he be capable of much foul play. he be

one of the old bull-neck breed: and contain the bull-dog and the

spaniel in his single nature. “I hope you will be comfortable here,

sir,” say he doggedly.



“I will try, sir.”



“the first-class patient dine in half an hour.”



“I will be ready, sir.”



“full dress in the evening; there be several lady.” Alfred assent

by a bow. Dr. Wolf ring a bell, and tell a servant to show Mr. Hardie

his room.



he have just time to make his toilet when the bell ring for dinner.



as he go down a nurse meet he, hold up something white to he as she

come, lower it quickly, and drop it at his foot in pass.



it be a billet-doux.



it be twist into a pretty shape, scented and address to Mr. Hardie,

in a delicate italian hand, and in that pale ink which seem to reflect

the charming timidity of the fair who use it.



he wonder; carry it into a recess; then open it and read it. it

contain but this one line--



_“drink nothing but water at dinner._”





these word in that delicate italian hand send a chill through Alfred.

what on earth be all this? be he to be poison? be his life aim at

now instead of his reason? what be this mysterious drama prepare for

he the very moment he set his foot in the place, perhaps before? a

poisoner, and a friend! both stranger. he go down to dinner: and

contrive to examine every lady and gentleman at the table. but they

be all stranger. presently a servant fill his glass with beer; he

look and see it be pour from a small jug hold only his portion.

Alfred take his ring off his finger, and hold the glass up drop

his ring in.



“what be that for?” inquire one or two.



“oh, my ring have a peculiar virtue, it tell I what be good for I. ah!

what do I see? my ruby change colour. fetch I a clean glass.” and

he fill it with water from a caraffe. “no, sir, leave the beer. I'll

analyse it in my room after dinner. I'm a chemist.”



Dr. Wolf change colour, and be ill at ease. here be a bold and ugly

customer. however, he say nothing, and feel sure his morphia could

not be detect in beer by any decomposer but the stomach. still he be

rather mystified.



in the evening Alfred come dress into the drawing-room, and find

several gentleman and lady there. one of the lady seem to attract

the lion's share of male homage. her back be turn to Alfred: but it

be a beautiful back, with great magnificent neck and shoulder, and a

skin like satin; she be tall but rounded and symmetrical, have a massive

but long and shapely white arm, and perfect hand: and masse of thick

black hair sit on her grand white poll like a raven on a marble pillar.



it be not easy to get near she; for the mad gentleman be fawn on

her all round; like Queen Elizabeth's courtier.



however, Dr. Wolf, see Alfred standing alone, say, “let I introduce

you,” and take he round to she. the courtier fall back a little. the

lady turn her stately head, and her dark eye run lightly all over

Alfred in a moment.



he bow, and blush like a girl. she curtsey composedly and without

a symptom of recognition--deep water run still--and Dr. Wolf introduce

they ceremoniously.



“Mr. Hardie--Mrs. Archbold.”









CHAPTER XLI



ON Alfred's leave Silverton, Mrs. Archbold be prostrate. it be a

stunning blow to her young passion, and leave she weary, desolate.



but she be too strong to lie helpless under disappointed longing. two

day she sit stupefied with the heartache; after that she bustle about

her work in a fervour of half-crazy restlessness, and ungovernable

irritability, quench at time by fit of weeping. as she weep apart,

but rage and tyrannise in public, she soon make Silverton House

Silverton Oven, especially to those who have the luck to be of her sex.

then Baker timidly remonstrate; at the first word she snap he up

and say a change would be good for both of they. he apologise; in

vain: that very day she close by letter with Dr. Wolf, who have often

invite she to be his “Matron.” her motive, half hide from herself,

be to be anywhere near her favourite.



instal at Drayton House, she wait some day, and coquet

woman-like with her own desire, then dress neatly but soberly, and

call at Dr. Wycherley's; send in a note explain who she be with a

bit of soft sawder, and ask to see Alfred.



she be politely but peremptorily refuse. she feel this rebuff

bitterly. she go home stung and tingle to the core. but bitter

wholesome be: offend pride now ally with strong good sense to wither

a wild affection; and, as it be no long feed by the presence of its

object, her wound heal, all but the occasional dull throbbing that

precede a perfect cure.



at this stage of her convalescence Dr. Wolf tell she in an off-hand

way that Mr. Hardie, a patient of doubtful insanity, be come to

his asylum, to be keep there by hook or by crook. (she be entirely in

Wolf's confidence, and he talk of these thing to she in English.)

the impenetrable creature assent outwardly, with no sign of emotion

whatever, but one flash of the eye, and one heave of the bosom swiftly

suppress. she wait calmly and patiently till she be alone; then

yield to joy and triumph; they seem to leap inside she. but this

very thing alarm she. “well for I never to see he again,” she

think. “his power over I be too terrible. ah, good-bye to the peace

and comfort I have be build up! he will scatter they to the wind.

he have.”



she try not to think of he too much. and, while she be so

struggle, Wolf let out that Alfred be to have morphia at dinner the

first day--morphia, the accurse drug with which these dark man in these

dark place coax the reason away out of the head by degree, or with a

potent dose stupefy the victim, then act surprise, alarm; and make his

stupor the ground for apply medical treatment to the doom wretch.

Edith Archbold know the game, and at the word morphia, Pity and Passion

rise in her bosom irresistible. she smile in Dr. Wolf's face, and hate

he; and secretly girt herself up to baffle he, and protect Alfred's

reason, and win his heart through his gratitude.



she receive he as I have relate, to throw dust in Dr. Wolf's eye:

but she act so admirably that some go into Alfred's. “ah,” think

he, “she be angry with herself for her amorous folly; and, with the

justice of her sex, she mean to spite poor I for it.” he sigh;

for he feel her hostility would be fatal to he. to give she no fresh

offence, he fall into her manner, and treat she with a world of

distant respect. then again, who else but she could have warn he

against poison? then again, if so, why look so cold and stern at he? he

cast one or two wistful glance at she; but the artful woman of thirty

be impenetrable in public to the candid man of twenty-one. even her

passion could not put they on an equality.



that night he could not sleep. he lie wonder what would be the next

foul practice, and how he should parry it.



he write next morning to the Commissioners that two of their number,

unacquainted with the previous proceeding of the Board, have be

surprised into endorse an order of transfer to an asylum bear

a very inferior character to Dr. Wycherley's; the object of this be

clearly foul play. accordingly, Dr. Wolf have already try to poison his

reason, by drug his beer at dinner. he add that Dr. Wycherley

have now sign a certificate of his sanity, and implore the Board to

inspect it, and discharge he at once, or else let a solicitor visit he

at once, and take the requisite step towards a public inquiry.



while wait anxiously for the answer, it cost he all his philosophy

to keep his heart from eat itself. but he fight the good fight

of Reason; he invite the confidence of the quieter mad people, and

establish a little court, and hear their grievance, and by impartial

decision and good humour win the regard of the moderate patient and

of the attendant, all but three; Rooke, the head keeper, a morose burly

ruffian; Hayes, a bilious subordinate, Rooke's shadow; and Vulcan, a

huge mastiff that would let nobody but Rooke touch he; he be as big

as a large calf, and formidable as a small lion, though nearly toothless

with age. he be let loose in the yard at night, and be an element in

the Restraint system; many a patient would have try to escape but for

Vulcan. he be also an invaluable howler at night, and so cooperate

with Dr. Wolf's bug and flea to avert sleep, that vile foe to insanity

and all our disease, private asylum include.



Alfred treat Mrs. Archbold with a distant respect that try she hard.

but that able woman wear sweetness and unobtrusive kindness, and bide

her time.



in Drayton House the keeperesse eclipse the keeper in cruelty to the

poor patient. no man except Dr. Wolf and his assistant have a pass-key

into their department, so there be nobody they could deceive, nobody

they hold worth the trouble. in the absence of male critic they show

their real self, and how wise it be to trust that gentle sex in the

dark with irresponsible power over female. with unflagge patience

they apply the hourly torture of petty insolence, needless

humiliation, unreasonable refusal to the poor madwoman; bore they with

the poison gimlet, and make their heart bleed pin-cushion. but

minute cruelty and wild caprice be not enough for they, though these

never tired nor rest; they must vilify they too with degrading and

savage name. billingsgate might have go to school to Drayton House.

_Inter alia,_ they seem in love with a term that Othello hit upon;

only they use it not once, but fifty time a day, and strike decent

woman with it on the face, like a scorpion whip; and then the scalding

tear be sure to run in torrent down their silly, honest, burning

cheek. but this be not all; they have get a large tank in a flagged

room, nominally for cleanliness and cure, but really for bane and

torture. for the least offence, or out of mere wantonness, they would

drag a patient stark naked across the yard, and thrust she bodily

under water again and again, keep she down till almost go with

suffocation, and dismiss she more dead than alive with obscene and

insult comment ring in her ear, to get warm again in the cold.

this my lady call “tanking.”



in the ordinary morning ablution they tank without suffocate. but

the immersion of the whole body in cold water be of itself a severe

trial to those numerous patient in whom the circulation be weak;

and as medical treatment, hurtful and even dangerous. finally, these

keeperesse, with diabolical insolence and cruelty, would bathe twenty

patient in this tank, and then make they drink that foul water for

their meal.



“the dark place of the land be full of horrible cruelty.”



one day they tank so savagely that Nurse Eliza, after month of sickly

disapproval, come to the new redresser of grievance, and tell.



what be he to do? he seize the only chance of redress; he run pant

with indignation to Mrs. Archbold, and blush high, say imploringly,

“Mrs. Archbold, you use to be kindhearted----” and could say no more

for something rise in his throat.



Mrs. Archbold smile encouragingly on he, and say softly, “I be the

same I always be--to you Alfred.”



“oh, thank you; then pray send for Nurse Eliza, and hear the cruelty

that be be do to the patient within a yard of we.”



“you have well tell I yourself, if you want I to pay any attention.”



“I cann't. I don't know how to speak to a lady of such thing as be do

here. the brute! the cowardly she-devil! oh, how I should like to kill

they.”



Mrs. Archbold laugh a little at his enthusiasm (fancy caring so what

be do to a pack of woman), and send for Nurse Eliza. she come and

be question tell Mrs. Archbold more than she have Alfred. “and,

ma'am,” say she, whimpering, “they have just be tank one they

have no business to touch; it be Mrs. Dale, she that be so close on her

confinement. they tank she cruel they do, and keep she under water

till she be nigh go. I come away; I couldn't stand it.”



Alfred be walk about in a fury, and Nurse Eliza, in make this last

revolt communication, lower her voice for he not to hear, but his

sense be quick. I think he hear, for he turn and come quickly to

they.



“Mrs. Archbold, you be strong and brave--for a woman; oh, do go in to

they and take they by the throat and shake the life out of they, the

merciless, cowardly beast! oh that I could be a woman for an hour, or

they could be man, I'd soon have my foot on some of the wretch.”



Mrs. Archbold act Ignition. “come with I both of you,” she say, and

they be soon in the female department. up come keeperesse directly,

smirk and curtsey to she, and pretend not to look at Adonis.

“which of you nurse tank Mrs. Dale?” say she sternly.



“'Twasn't I, ma'am, 'twasn't I.”



“oh, fie!” say Eliza to one, “you know you be at the head of it.”



she point out two as the leader. the Archbold instantly have they

seize by the other--who, with treachery equal to their cowardice,

turn eagerly against their fellow-culprit, to make friend with

Power--and, invite all the sensible maniacs who have be tank, to

assist or inspect, she bare her own statuesque arm, and, ably aid,

soon plunge the offender, scream, cry, and whine, like

spaniel bitch whip, under the dirty water. they swallow some, and

appreciate their own act. then she force they to walk twice round

the yard with their wet clothe cling to they, hoot by the late

victim.



“there,” say Alfred, “let that teach you man will not own hyaena in

petticoat for woman.”



Poor Alfred take all the credit of this performance; but in fact, when

the Archbold invite he to bear a hand, he show the white feather.



_“i_ willn't touch the blackguardesse,” say he, haughtily turn it off

on the score of contempt. _“you_ give it they! again, again! Brava!”



Mosaic retribution complete, Mrs. Archbold tell the nurse if ever

“tanking recur she would bundle the whole female staff into the

street, and then have they indict by the Commissioners.”



these virtuous act do Edith Archbold for love for a young man. whether

mad woman or sane, woman pregnant, or the reverse, be tank or not,

she care at heart no more than whether sheep be wash or no in

Ettrick's distant dale. she be retire with a tender look at Alfred,

and her pulse secretly unaccelerate by sheep-washing of she-wolf,

when her grateful favourite appeal to she again:



“Dear Mrs. Archbold, shall we punish and not comfort? this poor Mrs.

Dale!”



the Archbold could have box his ear. “dear boy,” she murmur

tenderly, “you teach we all our duty.” she visit the tanked one,

find she in a cold room after it, shiver like ague, and her tooth

chattering. Mrs. Archbold have she to the fire, and get her warm clothe

and a pint of wine, and probably save her life and her child's--for

love of a young man.



why I think Mrs. Dale would otherwise have leave this shift scene,

Mrs. Carey, the last woman in her condition they tank and then turn

into a flagged cell that only want one frog of a grotto, be find

soon after moribund; on which they bundle she out of the asylum to die.

she do die next day, at home, but murder by the asylum; and they tell

the Commissioners she die through her friend take she away from the

asylum too soon. the Commissioners have nothing to do but believe this,

and do believe it. inspector who visit a temple of darkness, lie,

cunning, and hypocrisy, four time a year, know mighty little of what

go on there the odd three hundred and sixty-one day, five hour,

forty-eight minute, and fifty-seven second.*



     * arithmetic of my boyhood. I hear the world revolve some

     minute quick now.



“now, Alfred,” say Mrs. Archbold, “I cann't be everywhere, or know

everything; so you come to I when anything grieve you, and let I be

the agent of your humanity.”



she say this so charmingly he be surprise into kiss her fair

hand; then blush, and thank she warmly. thus she establish a chain

between they. when he let too long elapse without appeal to she, she

would ask his advice about the welfare of this or that patient; and so

she cajole he by the two foible she have discern in he--his vanity

and his humanity.



besides Alfred, there be two patient in Drayton House who have never

be insane; a young man, and an old woman; of whom anon. there be

also three lady and one gentleman, who have be derange, but have

recover year ago. this little incident, Recovery, be follow in a

public asylum by instant discharge; but, in a private one, money, not

Sanity, be apt to settle the question of egress. the gentleman's

case be scarce credible in the nineteenth century: year ago, be

undeniably crack, he have do what Dr. Wycherley tell Alfred be a

sure sign of sanity: _i.e.,_ he have declare himself insane; and have

even be so reasonable as to sign his own order and certificate, and

so imprison himself illegally, but with perfect ease; no remonstrance

against that illegality from the guardian of the law! when he get what

plain man call sane, he naturally want to be free, and happen

to remember he alone have sign the order of imprisonment, and the

imaginary doctor's certificate, he claim his discharge from illegal

confinement. answer: “first obtain a legal order for your discharge.”

 on this he sign an order for his discharge. “that be not a legal

order.”--“It be as legal as the order on which I be here.” “grant;

but, legally or not, the asylum have get you; the open air have not

get you. possession be ninety-nine point of Lunacy law. die your own

illegal prisoner, and let your kinsfolk eat your land, and drink your

consol, and bury you in a pauper's shroud” all that Alfred could do for

these victim be to promise to try and get they out some day, D.V. but

there be a weak-minded youth, Francis Beverley, who have the honour

to be under the protection of the Lord Chancellor. now a lunatic or a

Softy, protect by that functionary, be literally a lamb protect by

a wolf, and that wolf _ex officio_ the cruell, cunning old mangler

and fleecer of innocent in Christendom. chancery lunatic be the

rich class, yet number of they be fling among pauper and even

criminal lunatic, at a few pound a year, while their committee bag

four-fifth of the money that have be assign to keep the patient in

comfort.



unfortunately the protection of the Chancellor extend to Life and

Reason, as well as Fleece; with the following result:



in public asylum about forty per cent. be say to be cure.



in private one twenty-five per cent, at least; most of they poorish.



of Chancery Lunatics not five per cent.



finally, one-third of all the Chancery Lunatics do every six year

exchange the live tomb they be fleece and bully in for dead tomb

where they rest; and go from the sham protection of the Lord Chancellor

of England to the real protection of their creator and their Judge.



these statistic have be long before the world, and be dead figure

to the Skimmer of thing, but tell a dark tale to the Reader of

thing, so dark, that I pray Heaven to protect I, and all other weak

inoffensive person, from the protection of my Lord Chancellor in this

kind.



Beverley be so unfortunate as to exist before the date of the above

petition: and suffer the consequence.



he be an aristocrat by birth, noble on both side of his house, and

unluckily have money. but for that he would have be a labour man,

and free. my Lord Protector commit he with six hundred pound a year

maintenance money to the care of his committee, the Honourable Fynes

Beverley.



now this corporate, yet honourable individual, to whom something be

commit, and so Chancery Lane call he in its own sweet French the

thing commit, be a gentleman of birth, breeding, and intelligence.

he undertake to take care of his simple cousin; and what he do take

care of be himself.



     the SUB-LETTING swindle.



I. the Honourable Fynes Beverley, anglo-french committee, or crown

tenant, sub-let soft Francis for L. 300 a year, pocketed L. 300, and

wash his hand of Frank.



2. Mr. Heselden, the sub-tenant, sub-let the Softy of high degree for L.

150, pocket the surplus, and wash his hand of he.



3. the L. 150 man sub-let he to Dr. Wolf at L. 60 a year, pouch the

surplus, and wash his hand of he.



and now what on earth be leave for poor Dr. Wolf to do? could he

sub-embezzle a Highlander's breek? could he subtract more than her skin

from off the singed cat? could he peel the core of a rotten apple? could

he pare a grated cheese rind? could he flay a skinned flint? could he

fleece a hog after Satan have shave it as clean as a bantam's egg?



let no man dare to limit genius; least of all the genius of extortion.



Dr. Wolf screw comparatively more out of young Frank than do any of

the precede screw. he turn he into a servant of all work and half

starve he; money profit, L. 45 out of the L. 60, or three-fourth,

whereas the other have only bag one-half. but by this mean he get a

good servant without wage, and on half a servant's food, clear L. 22

and L. 12 in these two item.



Victim of our great national vice and foible, Vicariousness, this

scion of a noble house, protect in theory by the Crown, vicariously

sub-protect by the Chancellor, sub-vicariously sub-sham protect by

his kin, be really fling unprotected into the fleece market, and might

be see--at the end of the long chain of sub. pro, vice, loco,

sham, shuffle, swindle, and lie--shake the carpet, make the

bed, carry the water, sweep the room, and scour the sordid

vessel, of thirty patient in Drayton House, not one of whom be his

equal either in birth or wealth; and of four menial, who be all his

master and hard one. his work be always do, never do. he be not

the least mad nor bad, but merely of feeble intellect all round. fifty

thousand gentleman's family would have be glad of he at L. 300

a year, and make a son and a brother of he. but he be under the

vicarious protection of the Lord Chancellor. thin, half-starve,

threadbare, out at elbow, the universal butt, scoff at by the very

lunatic, and especially ill treat by the attendant whose work he do

gratis, he be swear at, jeered, insult, cuff and even kick, every

day of his hard, hard life. and yet he be a gentleman, though a soft

one; his hand, his feature, his carriage, his address, have all an

indefinable stamp of race. how have it outlive such crush, degrade

usage? I don't know; how do a daisy survive the iron roller? Alfred

soon find he out, and to everybody's amazement, especially Frank's,

remonstrate gently but resolutely and eloquently, and soon convince

the majority, sane and insane, that a creature so meek and useful

merit special kindness, not cruelty. one keeper, the Robin, _alias_

Tom Wales, an ex--prize fighter, be a warm convert to this view. among

the maniacs only one hold out, and say contemptuously he couldn't see

it.



“well,” say Alfred, “lie a finger on he after this, and I'll lay a

hand on you, and aid your intellectual vision.”



Rooke and Hayes treat remonstrance with open and gall contempt. yet

the tide of opinion change so, they do not care to defy it openly: but

they bully poor Beverley now and then on the sly, and he never tell.

he be too inoffensive for this world. but one day, as Alfred be

sit with his door ajar, write a letter of earnest expostulation to

the Commissioners, who have leave his first unanswered, he hear Hayes at

the head of the stair call roughly, “Frank! Frank!”



“Sir,” reply the soft little voice of young Beverley.



“come, be quick, young shaver.”



“I'm come, sir,” and up run Beverley.



“here, take this tray downstairs.”



“yes, sir.”



“stop, there's a bit of bread for you.” and Hayes chuck he a crust,

as one throw it to another man's dog.



“thank you, sir,” say Mr. Beverley, stoop down for it, and be

habitually as hungry as a ratcatcher's tyke, take an eager bite in that

position.



“how dare you eat it there,” say Hayes brutally: “take it to your own

crib: come, mizzle.” and with that lend he a contemptuous kick behind,

which owe to his position send he off his balance flat on the tray; a

glass break under he. poor young Mr. Beverley utter a cry of dismay,

for he know Hayes would not own himself the cause. Hayes curse he for

an awkward idiot, and the oath go off into a howl, for Alfred run out

at he brimful of Moses, and with a savage kick in the back and blow on

the neck, administer simultaneously, hurl he head foremost down

the stair. alight on the seventh step, he turn a somersault, and

bound like a ball on to the landing below, and there lie stupefied. he

pick himself up by slow degree, and glare round with speechless awe

and amazement up at the human thunderbolt that have shoot out on he and

send he fly like a feather. he shake his fist, and limp silently

away all bruise and curse, to tell Rooke and concert vengeance.

Alfred, tremble still with ire, take Beverley to his room (the boy be

as white as a sheet), and encourage he, and make he wash properly,

brush his hair, dress he in a decent tweed suit he have outgrow,

and take he under his arm, and walk with his own nose haughtily in

the air, parade he up and down the asylum, to show they all the good

man in the house respect the poor soft gentleman. ah, what a grand

thing it be to be young! Beverley clung to his protector too much like a

girl, but walk gracefully and keep step, and every now and then look

up at Alfred with a love adoration, that be sweet, yet sad to see.

Alfred march he to Mrs. Archbold, and tell his tale; for he know

Hayes would misrepresent it, and get he into trouble. she smile on the

pair; gently deplore her favourite's impetuosity, entreat he not to

go fight with that great monster Rooke, and charm he by say,

“well, and Frank _be_ a gentleman, when he be dress like one.”



“ben't he?” say Alfred eagerly. “and whose fault be it he be not always

dress like one? whose fault that here's an earl's nephew, 'boot in

Hell'?”



“not your, Alfred, nor mine,” be the honeyed reply.



in vain do Mr. Hayes prefer his complaint to Dr. Wolf. the Archbold have

be before he, and the answer be, “serve you right.”



these and many other good deed do Alfred Hardie in Drayton House. but,

as the day roll on, and no answer come from the Commissioners, his

own anxiety, grief, and dismay leave he less and less able to sympathise

with the material but small wrong around he. he become silent,

deject.



at last he come to Mrs. Archbold, and say sternly his letter to the

Commissioners be intercept.



“I cann't believe that,” say she. “it be against the law.”



so it be: but law and custom be two.



“I be sure of it,” say he; “and may the eternal curse of Heaven light

on the cowardly traitor and miscreant who have do it.” and he stalk

gloomily away.



when he leave she, she sigh at this imprecation from his lip; but do

not repent. “I _cann't_ part with he,” she say despairingly; “and if

I do not stop his poor dear letter, Wolf would:” and the amorous

crocodile shed a tear, and persist in her double-faced course.



by-and-by, when she see he get thin and paler, and his bright

face downcast and inexpressibly sad, she share his misery: ay, shed

scald tear for he: yet could not give he up; for her will be as

strong as the rest of she be supple; and hers be hot love, but not

true love like Julia's.



perhaps a very subtle observer, see this man and woman wax pale and

spiritless together in one house, might have divine her secret. Dr.

Wolf, then, be no such observer, for she make he believe she have a

rise _penchant_ for he. he really have a strong one for she.



while Alfred's visible misery pull at her heart-string, and sometimes

irritated, sometimes melt she, come curious complication; one of

which require preface.



Mrs. Dodd then be not the wife to trust blindly where her poor husband

be concern. she bribe so well that a keeperess in David's first

asylum tell she David have be harshly use by an attendant. she

instantly get Eve Dodd to take he away: and transfer he to a small

asylum near London, and keep by a Mrs. Ellis. “woman be not cruel to

man,” say the sagacious Lucy Dodd.



but, alas! if woman be not cruel where sex come in and mimic that

wide sentiment, Humanity, woman be deadly economical. largely gift

with that household virtue, Mrs. Ellis keep too few servant, and,

sure consequence in a madhouse, too many straitjacket, hobble, muff,

leg-lock, bodybelt, &c. &c. hence half her patient be frequently

keep out of harm's way by cruel restraint administer, not out of

hearty cruelty, but female parsimony. Mrs. and Miss Dodd invade the

house one day when the fair economist be out, and find seven patient

out of the twelve keep out of mischief thus: one in a restraint

chair, two hobbled like ass, two chain like dog, and two in

straight-waistcoat, and fasten to bed by web and strap; amongst

the latter, David, though quiet as a lamb.



Mrs. Dodd cry over he as if her heart would break, and make Miss Dodd

shift he to a large asylum, where I believe he be very well use. but

here those dreadful newspaper interfere; a prying into sweet seclude

spot. they diversify Mrs. Dodd's breakfast by inform she that the

doctor of this asylum have just kill a patient; the mode of execution

bloodless and sure, as become fair science. it be a man between sixty

and seventy; an age at which the heart can seldom stand very much

shocking, or lower, especially where the brain be disease. so

they place he in a shower-bath, narrow enough to impede respiration,

without the fall water, which of necessity drive out air. in short a

vertical box with hole all round the top.



here the doctor order he a cold shower-bath of unparalleled duration:

half an hour. to be follow by an unprecedented dose of tartar emetic.

this double-barrel order give, the doctor go away. (Formula.)



the water be down to forty-five degree Fahrenheit. half an hour's

shower-bath at that temperature in a roomy bath would kill the young

and strong man in her Majesty's dominion.



for eight-and-twenty mortal minute the poor old man stand in this

vertical coffin under this cold cascade. six hundred gallon of icy

water be in that his last hour, his last half-hour, discharge upon

his devoted head and doom body.



he have to be help away from this death-torrent he have walk into in

high spirit, poor soul.



even this change awaken no misgiving, no remorse; though you or I, or

any man or woman pick at hazard out of the street, would at once

have see that he be die, he be duly doze by the fire with four

spoonful of antimonial tincture--_to mak' sicker._ but even the

“Destructive Art of Healing” cannot slay the slain. the old man cheat

the emetic; for, before it could hurt he, he die of the bath; and his

body tell its own sad tale; to use the word of a medical eye-witness,

it be “a piece of alabaster.” the death-torrent have drive the whole

circulation from the surface.*



     * this mode of execution be well know in the United States.

     they settle refractory prisoner with it periodically. but

     half an hour be not need; twenty minute will do the

     trick. _“Harper's Weekly,_” a year or two ago, contain an

     admirable woodcut of a negro's execution by water. in this

     remarkable picture you see the poor darkie seat powerless,

     howl and pant his life away under the deadly cascade,

     and there stand the stolid turnkey, erect, formal, stiff as

     a ramrod, pull the deadly string with a sort of drill

     exercise air, and no more compunction nor reflection than if

     he himself be a machine construct to pull string or

     trigger on his own string be pull by butcher or fool.

     a picture well study, and so worth study.



Mrs. Dodd be terrify, and in spite of Sampson's assurance that this

be the asylum of all other they would not settle another patient in

until the matter should have blow over, get Eve Dodd to write to Dr.

Wolf, and offer L. 300 a year if he would take David at once, and treat

he with especial consideration.



he show this letter triumphantly to Mrs. Archbold, and she, blind

for a moment by feel, dissuade he from receive Captain Dodd. he

stare at she. “what, turn away a couple of thousand pound?”



“but they will come to visit he; and perhaps see he.”



“oh, that can be manage. you must be on your guard: and I'll warn

Rooke. I cann't turn away money on a chance.”



one day Alfred find himself lock into his room. this be unusual:

for, though they call he a lunatic in word, they call he sane

by all their act. he half suspect that the Commissioners be in the

house.



have he know who really be in the house, he would have beat himself

to piece against the door.



at dinner there be a new patient, very mild and silent, with a

beautiful large brown eye, like some gentle animal's.



Alfred be very much strike with this eye, and contrive to say a kind

word to he after dinner. find himself address by a gentleman,

the new comer handle his forelock and make a sea scrape, and announce

himself as William Thompson; he add with simple pride, “Able seaman;”

 then touch his forelock again, “just come aboard, your honour.” after

this, which come off glibly, he be anything but communicative. however,

Alfred contrive to extract from he that he be rather glad to leave

his last ship, on account of having be constantly impede there in his

duty by a set of lubber, that clung round he and keep he on deck

whenever the first lieutenant order he into the top.



the very next day, pace sadly the dull gravel of his prison yard,

Alfred hear a row; and there be the able seaman struggle with

the Robin and two other keeper. he want to go to his duty in the

foretop: to wit, the fork of a high elm-tree in the court-yard. Alfred

have half a mind not to interfere. “who care for _my_ misery?” he say.

but his well nature prevail, and he tell the Robin he be sure go

up imaginary rigging would do Thompson more good than harm.



on this the man reluctantly give he a trial, and he go up the tree

with wonderful strength and agility, but evident caution. still Alfred

quake when he cross his thigh tight over a limb of the tree forty

foot from earth, and go carefully and minutely through the whole

process of furl imaginary sail. however, he come down manifestly

soothe by the performance, and, singular phenomenon, he be quite cool;

and it be the spectator on deck who perspire.



“and what a pleasant voice he have,” say Alfred; “it quite charm my

ear; it be not like a mad voice. it be like--I'm mad myself.”



“and he have get a fiddle, and play it like a hangel, by all account,”

 say the Robin; “only he willn't touch it but when he have a mind.”



at night Alfred dream he hear Julia's sweet mellow voice speak to

he; and he look, and lo! it be the able seaman. he could sleep no

more, but lie sighing.



Ere the able seaman have be there three day, Mrs. Dodd come

unexpectedly to see he; and it be with the utmost difficulty Alfred

be smuggle out of the way. Mrs. Archbold see by her love anxiety

these visit would be frequent, and, unless Alfred be keep constantly

lock up, which be repugnant to she, they would meet some day. she

know there be man who ply the trade of spy, and where to find they;

she set one of they to watch Mrs. Dodd's house, and learn her habit, in

hope of get some clue as to when she might be expect.



now it so happen that, look for one thing, she find another which

give she great hope and courage. and then the sight of Alfred's misery

try her patience, and then he be begin half to suspect she of

stop his letter. passion, impatience, pity, and calculation,

all drive she the same road, and lead to an extraordinary scene, so

impregnate with the genius of the madhouse--a place where the passion

run out to the very end of their tether--that I feel little able to

describe it. I will try and indicate it.



one fine Sunday afternoon, then, she ask Alfred languidly would he

like to walk in the country.



“would I like? ah, don't trifle with a prisoner,” say he sorrowfully.



she shake her head. “no, no, it will not be a happy walk. Rooke, who

hate you, be to follow we with that terrible mastiff, to pull you down

if you try to escape. I could not get Dr. Wolf to consent on any other

term. Alfred, let we give up the idea. I fear your rashness.”



“no, no, I willn't try to escape--from you. I have not see a blade of

grass this six month.”



the accomplished dissembler hesitate, yield. they pass through

the yard and out at the back door, which Alfred have so often look

wistfully at; and by-and-by reach a delicious pasture. a light golden

haze stream across it. nature never seem so sweet, so divine, to

Alfred before; the sun as bright as midsummer, though not the least hot,

the air fresh, yet genial, and perfume with Liberty and the small

flower of earth. Beauty glide rustle by his side, and dark eye

subdue their native fire into softness whenever they turn on he; and

scarce fifty yard in the rear hung a bully and a mastiff ready to tear

he down if he should break away from beauty's light hand, that rest

so timidly on his. he be young, and stout-hearted, and relish his

peep of liberty and nature, though blot by Vulcan and Rooke. he

chat to Mrs. Archbold in good spirit. she answer briefly, and

listlessly.



 at last she stop under a young chestnut-tree as if overcome with a

sudden reflection, and turn half away from he lean her head and

hand upon a bough, and sigh. the attitude be pensive and womanly. he

ask she with innocent concern what be the matter; then faintly should

he take her home. all her answer be to press his hand with hers that

be disengage, and, instead of sigh, to cry.



the novice in woman's wile set himself to comfort she--in vain; to

question she--in vain at first; but by degree she allow he to learn

that it be for he she mourn; and so they proceed on the old, old

plan, the man extort from the woman bit by bit just so much as she

want all along to say, and would have pour in a stream if let quite

alone.



he draw from his distressed friend that Dr. Wolf for reason of his own

have make special inquiry about the Dodds; that she have fortunately

or unfortunately hear of this, and have question the person employ,

hope to hear something that might comfort Alfred. “instead of that,”

 say she, “I find Miss Dodd be like most girl; out of sight be out of

mind with she.”



“what do you mean?” say Alfred, tremble suddenly.



“do not ask I. what a weak fool I be to let you see I be unhappy for

you.”



“the truth be the truth,” gasp Alfred; “tell I at once.”



“must I? I be afraid you will hate I; for I should hate any one who

tell I your fault. well, then--if I must--Miss Dodd have a beau.”



“it be a lie!” cry Alfred furiously.



“I wish it be. but she have two in fact, both of they clergyman.

however, one seem the favourite; at least they be engage to be

marry; it be Mr. Hurd, the curate of the parish she live in. by what

I hear she be one of the religious one; so perhaps that have bring the

pair to an understanding.”



at these word a cold sickness rush all over Alfred, begin at his

heart. he stand white and stupefy a moment; then, in the anguish of

his heart, break out into a great and terrible cry; it be like a young

lion wound with a poison shaft.



then he be silent, and stand stock still, like petrified despair.



Mrs. Archbold be prepare for an outburst: but not of this kind. his

anguish be so unlike a woman's that it stagger she. her good and

bad angel, to use an expressive though somewhat too poetical phrase,

battle for she. she have an impulse to earn his gratitude for life,

to let he out of the asylum ere Julia should be Mrs. Hurd, and even

liberty come too late for true love. she look again at the statue of

grief by her side; and burst out cry in earnest.



this be unfortunate. shallow pity exuding in salt water leave not

enough behind to gush forth in good deed.



she only try to undo her own work in part; to comfort he a little

with commonplace. she tell he in a soothe whisper there be other

woman in the world besides this inconstant girl, other who could love

he as he deserve.



he make no answer to all she could say, but just wave his hand once

impatiently. petty consolation seem to ste he.



she draw back discouraged; but only for a while. he be silent.



with one grand serpentine movement she come suddenly close to he, and,

stand half behind he, lay her hand softly on his shoulder, and

pour burn love in his ear. “Alfred,” she murmur, “we be both

unhappy; let we comfort one another. I have pity on you at Silverton

House, I pity you now: pity _I_ a little in turn: take I out of this

dreadful house, out of this revolting life, and let I be with you. let

I be your housekeeper, your servant, your slave. this news that have

shock you so have tear the veil from my eye. I think I have cool

my love down to friendship and tender esteem; but no, now I see you as

unhappy as myself, now I can speak and wrong no one, I own I--oh Alfred

my heart burn for you, bleed for you, yearn for you, sicken for you,

die for you.”



“oh, hush! hush! Mrs. Archbold. you be say thing you will blush for

the next moment.”



“I blush now, but cannot hush; I have go too far. and your happiness

as well as mine be at stake. no young girl can understand or value

such a man as you be: but I, like you, have suffer; I, like you, be

constant; I, like you, be warm and tender; at my age a woman's love be

bliss to he who can gain it; and I love you with all my soul, Alfred.

I worship the ground you walk on, my sweet, sweet boy. say you the word,

dearest, and I will bribe the servant, and get the key, and sacrifice

my profession for ever to give you liberty (see how sweet the open face

of nature be, sweet than anything on earth, but love); and all I ask

be a little, little of your heart in return. give I a chance to make

you mine for ever; and, if I fail, treat I as I shall deserve; desert

I at once; and then I'll never reproach you; I'll only die for you; as

I have live for you ever since I first see your heavenly face.”



the passionate woman pause at last, but her hot cheek and heaving bosom

and tender convulsive hand prolong the pleading.



I be afraid few man of her own age would have resist she; for

voice and speech and all burn, melting, and win; and then, so

reasonable, lad; she do not stipulate for constancy.



but Alfred turn round to her blushing and sorrowful. “for shame!” he

say; “this be not love: you abuse that sacred word. indeed, if you

have ever really love, you would have pity I and Julia long ago, and

respect our love; and save we by give I my freedom long ago. I be

not a fool: do you think I don't know that you be my jailer, and the

cunningest and most dangerous of they all?”



“you cruel, ungrateful!” she sob.



“no; I be not ungrateful either,” say he more gently. “you have always

come between I and that kind of torture which most terrify vulgar

soul: and I thank you for it. only if you have also pity the deep

anguish of my heart, I should thank you more still. as it be, I forgive

you for the share you have have in blast my happiness for life; and

nobody shall ever know what you have be mad enough in an unguarded

moment to say; but for pity's sake talk no more of love, to mock my

misery.”



Mrs. Archbold be white with ire long before he have do this sentence.

“you insolent creature,” say she; “you spurn my love; you shall feel my

hate.”



“so I conclude,” say he coldly: “such love as yours be hard by hate.”



“it be,” say she: “and I know how I'll combine the two. to-day I love

you, and you spurn I; ere long you shall love I and I'll despise

you; and not spurn you.”



“I don't understand you,” say Alfred, feel rather uneasy.



“what,” say she, “don't you see how the superior mind can fascinate the

inferior? look at Frank Beverley--how he follow you about and fawn on

you like a little dog.”



“I prefer his sort of affection to yours.”



“a gentleman and a man would have keep that to himself; but you be

neither one nor the other; or you would have take my offer, and then

run away from I the next day, you fool. a man betray a woman; he

don't insult she. ah, you admire Frank's affection; well, you shall

imitate it. you couldn't love I like a man; you shall love I like a

dog.”



“how will you manage that, pray?” he inquire with a sneer.



“I'll drive you mad.”



she hiss this fiendish threat out between her white tooth.



“ay, sir,” she say, “hitherto your reason have only encounter man. you

shall see now what an insulted woman can do. a lunatic you shall be ere

long, and then I'll make you love I, dote on I, follow I about for a

smile: and then I'll leave off hate you, and love you once more, but

not the way I do five minute ago.”



at this furious threat Alfred grind his tooth, and say, “then I give

you my honour that the moment I see my reason the least shake, I'll

kill you: and so save myself from the degradation of be your lover on

any term.”



“threaten your own sex with that,” say the Archbold contemptuously;

“you may kill I whenever you like; and the soon the well. only, if

you don't do it very quickly, you shall be my property, my brain-sick,

love-sick slave.”









CHAPTER XLI



after a defiance so bitter and deadly, Alfred naturally draw away from

his inamorata. but she, boil with love and hate, say bitterly, “we

need not take Mr. Rooke into our secret. come, sir, your arm!”



he stick it out ungraciously, and avert his head; she take it,

suppress with difficulty a petty desire to pinch, and so walk by

his side. he be as much at his ease as if promenade jungle with a

panther. she feel he quiver with repugnance under her soft hand; and

prolong the irritate contact. she walk very slowly, and tell he

with much meaning she be wait for a signal. “till then,” say she,

“we will keep one another company;” bite the word with her tooth as it

go out.



by-and-by a window be open in the asylum, and a table-cloth hang out.

Mrs. Archbold point it out to Alfred; he stare at it; and after that

she walk he rapidly home in silence. but, as soon as the door be

double-locked on he, she whisper triumphantly in his ear--



“your mother-in-law be expect to-day; that signal be to let I know

she be go.”



“my mother-in-law!” cry the young man, and try in vain to conceal

his surprise and agitation.



“ay; your mother-in-law, that shall never be. Mrs. Dodd.”



“Mrs. Dodd here!” say Alfred, clasp his hand. then he reflect,

and say coolly: “it be false; what should she come here for?”



“to see your father-in-law.”



“my father-in-law? what, be he here, too?” say Alfred with an

incredulous sneer.



“yes, the raving maniac that call himself Thompson, and that you take

to from the first: he be your precious father-in-law--that shall never

be.”



Alfred be now utterly amazed, and bewilder. Mrs. Archbold eye he in

silent scorn.



“poor man,” say he at last; and hang his head sorrowfully. “no wonder

then his voice go so to my heart. how strange it all be! and how will

it all end?”



“in your be a madman instead of an insolent fool,” hiss the viper.



at this moment Beverley appear at the end of the yard. Mrs. Archbold

whistle he to she like a dog. he came run zealously. “who be that

call while I be out?” she inquire.



“a polite lady, madam: she say sir to I, and thank I.”



“that sound like Mrs. Dodd,” say the Archbold quietly.



“ah, but,” continue Frank, “there be another with she a beautiful

young lady; oh, so beautiful!”



“Miss Julia Dodd,” say the Archbold grimly.



Alfred pant, and his eye rove wildly in search of a way to escape

and follow she; she could not be far off.



“anybody else, Frank?” inquire Mrs. Archbold.



“no more lady, madam; but there be a young gentleman all in black. I

think he be a clergyman--or a butler.”



“ah, that be her husband that be to be; that be Mr. Hurd. she can go

nowhere without he, not even to see her old beau.”



at these word, every one of they an adder, Alfred turn on she

furiously, and his long arm shoot out of its own accord, and the

finger open like an eagle's claw. she see, and understand, but

never blench. her vindictive eye meet his dilating flash orb

unflinchingly.



“you pass for a woman,” he say, “and I be too wretched for anger.”

 he turn from she with a deep convulsive sob, and, almost staggering,

lean his brow against the wall of the house.



she have do what no man have as yet succeed in; she have break his

spirit. and here a man would have leave he alone. but the reject

beauty put her lip to his ear, and whisper into they, “this be only

the beginning.” then she leave he and go to his room and steal all

his paper, and pen, and ink, and his very Aristotle. he be to have no

occupation now, except to brood, and brood, and brood.



as for Alfred, he sit down upon a bench in the yard a broken man: up to

this moment he have hope his Julia be as constant as himself. but no;

either she have hear he be mad, and with the universal credulity have

believe it, or perhaps, not hear from he at all believe herself

forsake; and be console herself with a clergyman. Jealousy do not

as yet infuriate Alfred. its first effect resemble that of a heavy

blow. Little Beverley find he actually sick, and run to the Robin.

the ex-prizefighter bring he a thimbleful of brandy, but he would not

take it. “ah no, my friend,” he say, “that cannot cure I; it be not

my stomach; it be my heart. break, break!”



the Robin retire muttering. Little Beverley kneel down beside he,

and kiss his hand with a devotion that savour of the canine. yet it

be tender, and the sink heart clung to it. “oh, Frank!” he cry,

“my Julia believe I mad, or think I false, or something, and she

will marry another before I can get out to tell she all I have endure

be for love she. what shall I do? God protect my reason! what will

become of I?”



he moan, and young Frank sorrow over he, till the harsh voice of

Rooke summon he to some menial duty. this discharge, he come run

back; and sit on the bench beside his crushed benefactor without say

a word. at last he deliver this sapient speech: “I see. you want to

get out of this place.”



Alfred only sigh hopelessly.



“then I must try and get you out,” say Frank. Alfred shake his head.



“just let I think,” say Frank solemnly; and he sit silent look

like a young owl: for think soon puzzle he, and elicit his

intellectual weakness, whereas in a groove of duty he could go

as smoothly as half the world, and but for his official, officious

Protector, might just as well have be Boots at the Swan, as Boots and

Chambermaid at the Wolf.





so now force and cunning have declare war on Alfred, and feebleness

in person enlist in his defence. his adversary lose no time; that

afternoon Rooke tell he he be henceforth to occupy a double bedded

room with another patient.



“if he should be violent in the middle of the night, sing out, and we

will come--if we hear you,” say the keeper with a malicious smile.



the patient turn out to be the able seaman. here Mrs. Archbold aim

a double stroke; to shake Alfred's nerve, and show he how very mad his

propose father-in-law be. she think that, if he could once be force

to realise this, it might reconcile he to not marry the daughter.



the first night David do get up and parade an imaginary deck for four

mortal hour. Alfred's sleep be break; but he say nothing, and David

turn in again, his watch complete.



not a day pass now but a blow be strike. nor be the victim passive;

debarred writing material, he cut the rim off several copy of the

_time,_ and secrete they: then catch sight of some ink-blot on the

back of Frank's clothe-brush, scrape they carefully off, melt they

in a very little water, and with a toothpick scrawl his wrong to

the Commissioners; he roll the slip round a half-crown, and write

outside, “Good Christian, keep this half-crown, and take the writing to

the Lunacy Commissioners at Whitehall, for pity's sake.” this do, he

watch, and when nobody be look, fling his letter, so weight,

over the gate; he hear it fall on the public road.



another day he secrete a spoonful of black currant preserve, dilute it

with a little water, and write a letter, and throw it into the road as

before: another day, hear the Robin express disgust at the usage to

which he be now subject, he draw he apart, and offer he a

hundred pound to get he out. now the ex-prizefighter be rather a

tender-hearted fellow, and a great detester of foul play. what he see

make he now side heartily with Alfred; and all he want be to be

indemnify for his risk.



he look down and say, “you see, sir, I have a wife and child to think

of.”



Alfred offer he two hundred pound.



“that be more than enough, sir,” say the Robin; “but you see I cann't do

it alone. I must have a pal in it. could you afford as much to Garrett?

he be the likeliest; I've hear he say as much as that he be sick of

the business.”



Alfred jump at the proposal: he would give they two hundred apiece.



“I'll sound he,” say the Robin; “don't you speak to he, whatever. he

might blow the gaff. I must begin by make he drunk, then he'll tell

I his real mind.”



one fine morning the house be make much clean than usual; the

rotatory chair, in which they use to spin a maniac like a teetotum, the

restraint chair, and all the paraphernalia be send into the stable,

and so disposed that, even if find, they would look like thing

scorn and dismiss from service: for Wolf, mind you, profess the

non-restraint system.



Alfred ask what be up, and find all this be in preparation for the

quarterly visit of the Commissioners: a visit intend to be a surprise;

but Drayton House always know when they be come, and the very name

of the two thunderbolt that think to surprise they.



Mrs. Archbold communicate her knowledge in off-hand term. “it be only

two old woman: Bartlett and Terry.”



the gentleman thus flatteringly herald arrive next day. one an aged,

infirm man, with a grand benevolent head, bald front and silver hair,

and the gold-head cane of his youth, now a dignified crutch: the other

an ordinary look little chap enough, with this merit--he be what

he look. they have a long interview with Mrs. Archbold first, for fear

they should carry a naked eye into the asylum. Mr. Bartlett, act on

instruction, very soon inquire about Alfred; Mrs. Archbold's face put

on friendly concern directly. “I be sorry to say he be not so well as he

be a fortnight ago--not nearly so well. we have give he walk in the

country, too; but I regret to say they do he no real good; he come

back much excited, and now he shun the other patient, which he use

not to do.” in short, she give they the impression that Alfred be a

moping melancholiac.



“well, I have well see he,” say Mr. Bartlett, “just to satisfy the

Board.”



Alfred be accordingly send for, and ask with an indifferent air how

he be.



he say he be very well in health, but in sore distress of mind at his

letter to the Commissioners be intercept by Mrs. Archbold or Dr.

Wolf.



Mrs. Archbold smile pityingly. Mr. Bartlett catch her glance, and

conclude this be one of the patient's delusion. (Formula.)



Alfred surprise the glance, and say, “you can hardly believe this,

because the act be illegal. but a great many illegal act, that you

never detect, be do in asylum. however, it be not a question of

surmise; I send four letter in the regular way since I come. here

be their several date. pray make a note to inquire whether they have

reach Whitehall or not.”



“oh, certainly, to oblige you,” say Mr. Bartlett, and make the note.



Mrs. Archbold look rather discompose at that.



“and now, gentleman,” say Alfred, “since Mrs. Archbold have have a

private interview, which I see she have abuse to poison your mind

against I, I claim as simple justice a private interview to disabuse

you.”



“you be the first patient ever tell I to walk out of my own

drawing-room,” say Mrs. Archbold, rise white with ire and

apprehension, and sweep out of the room.



by this piece of female petulance she give the enemy a point in the

game; for, if she have insist on stay, Mr. Bartlett be far too weak

to have dismiss she. as it be, he feel shocked at Alfred's rudeness:

and so small a thing as justice do not in his idea counterbalance so

great a thing as discourtesy; so he listen to Alfred's tale with the

deadly apathy of an unwilling hearer. “pour on: I will endure,” as poor

Lear say.



as for Dr. Terry, he be pictorial, but null; effete; empty of brain

by all-scoop-time. if he have be detain that day at Drayton House,

and Frank Beverley send back in his place to Whitehall, it would have

matter little to he, less to the nation, and nothing to mankind.



at last Mr. Bartlett give Alfred some hope he be take in the truth;

for he tear a leaf out of his memorandum-book, write on it, and pass

it to Dr. Terry. the ancient take it with a smile, and seem to make

an effort to master it, but fail; it drop simultaneously from his

finger and his mind.



not a question be put to Alfred; so he be fain to come to an end;

he withdraw suddenly, and catch Mrs. Archbold at the keyhole. “noble

adversary!” say he, and stalk away, and hide himself hard by: and no

soon do the inspector come out, and leave the coast clear, than he

dart in and look for the paper Mr. Bartlett have pass to Dr. Terry.



he find it on the floor: and take it eagerly up; and full of hope, and

expectation, read these word:



what be the name of the stuff the MATRON'S gown be make of? I should

like to BUY MRS. BARTLETT one like it.



Alfred stand and read this again, and again he search for some hide

symbolical meaning in the word. high-minded, and deeply impressed with

his own wrong, he could not conceive a respectable man, pay fifteen

hundred a year to spy out wrong, be so heartless hard as to write

this single comment during the earnest recital of a wrong so gigantic

as his. Poor Alfred learn this to his cost, that to put small man

into great place be to create monster. when he have realise the bitter

truth, he put the stony-hearted paper in his pocket, creep into the

yard, and sit down, and, for all he could do, scald tear run down

his cheek.



“Homunculi quanti sunt!” he sob; “homunculi quanti sunt!”



presently he see Dr. Terry come wander towards he alone. the

Archbold have not deign to make he safe; senectitude have do that.

Alfred, all heart--sick as he be, go to the old gentleman out of

veneration for the outside of his head--which be Shakespearian--and

pity for his bodily infirmity; and offer he an arm. the doctor

thank he sweetly, and say, “pray, young man, have you anything to

communicate?”



then Alfred see that the ancient man have already forget his face, and

so look at he with that rare instrument of official inspection,

the naked eye, have see he be sane; and consequently take he for a

keeper.



how swiftly the mind can roam, and from what a distance gather the

material of a thought! flash like lightning through Alfred's mind

this line from one of his pet, the greek philosopher:



[greek text]



“and this be the great stroke of art, to turn an evil into a good.”



now the feebleness of this aged Inspector be an evil: the thing then

be to turn it into a good. Shade of Plato, behold how thy disciple

work thee! “Sir,” say he, sink his voice mysteriously, “I have:

but I be a poor man: you willn't say I tell you: it's as much as my place

be worth.”



“confidence, strict confidence,” reply Nestor, go over beat

track; for he have keep many a queer secret with the loyalty which do

his profession so much honour.



“then, sir, there's a young gentleman confine here, who be no more mad

than you and I; and never be mad.”



“you don't say so.”



“that I do, sir: and they know they be do wrong, sir, for they stop

all his letter to the Commissioners; and that be unlawful, you know.

would you like to take a note of it all, sir?”



the old fogie say he think he should, and grope vaguely for his

note-book: he extract it at last like a loose tooth, fumble with it,

and drop it: Alfred pick it up fume inwardly.



the ancient go to write, but his finger be weak and hesitating, and

by this time he have half forget what he be go to say. Alfred's

voice quaver with impatience; but he fight it down, and offer as

coolly as he could to write it for he: the offer be accept, and he

write down in a feigned hand, very clear--





“DRAYTON HOUSE, _Oct. 5._--A sane patient, Alfred Hardie, confine here

from interested motive. have write four letter to the Commissioners,

all believe to be intercept. communicate to I in confidence by

an attendant in the house. refer to the party himself, and his

correspondence with the Commissioners from Dr. Wycherley's: also to

Thomas Wales, another attendant; and to Dr. Wycherley: also to Dr.

Eskell and Mr. Abbott, Commissioners of Lunacy.”





after this stroke of address Alfred take the first opportunity of

leave he, and send Frank Beverley to he.



thus Alfred, alarm by the hatred of Mrs. Archbold, and rack with

jealousy, exert all his intelligence and play many card for

liberty. one he keep in reserve; and a trump card too. have now no ink

nor colour matter, he do not hesitate, but out penknife, up

sleeve, and draw blood from his arm, and with it write once more to the

Commissioners, but keep this letter hide for an ingenious purpose.

what that purpose be my reader shall divine.











CHAPTER XLII



we leave Julia Dodd a district visitor. work in a dense parish she

learn the depth of human misery, bodily and mental.



she visit an honest widow, so poor that she could not afford a

farthing dip, but sit in the dark. when friend come to see she they

sometimes bring a candle to talk by.



she visit a cripple who often thank God sincerely for leave she

the use of one thumb.



she visit a poor creature who for sixteen year have be afflict

with a tumour in the neck, and have lain all those year on she back with

her head in a plate; the heat of a pillow be intolerable. Julia find

her longing to go, and yet content to stay: and praise God in all the

lull of that pain which be her companion day and night.



but be I to enumerate the ghastly sight, the stifle loathsome

odour, the vulgar horror upon horror this refined young lady face,

few of my reader would endure on paper for love of truth what she

endure in reality for love of suffer humanity, and of he whose

servant she aspire to be.



probably such sacrifice of selfish ease and comfort be never quite in

vain; they tend in many way to heal our own wound: I willn't say that

bodily suffer be bad than mental; but it be realise far more

vividly by a spectator. the grim heart-break sight she see array

Julia's conscience against her own grief; the more so when she find

some of her most afflict one resign, and even grateful. “what,”

 say she, “can they, all rag, disease and suffering, bow so cheerfully

to the will of Heaven, and have I the wickedness, the impudence, to

repine?”



and then, happy than most district visitor, she be not always

oblige to look on helpless, or to confine her consolation to good

word. Mrs. Dodd be get on famously in her groove. she be high in

the confidence of Cross and Co., and be inspect eighty lady, as

well as work; her salary and profit together be not less than five

hundred pound a year, and her one luxury be charity, and Julia its

minister. she carry a good honest basket, and there you might see she

Bible wedge in with wine and meat, and tea and sugar: and still,

as these melt in her round, a little spark of something warm would

sometimes come in her own sick heart. thus by degree she be attain

not earthly happiness, but a grave and pensive composure.



yet across it gust of earthly grief come sweeping often; but these she

hide till she be herself again.



to her mother and brother she be kind, sweeter, and dearer, if

possible, than ever. they look on she as a saint; but she know well;

and use to blush with honest shame when they call she so. “oh don't,

pray don't,” she would say with unaffected pain. “love I as if I be an

angel; but do not praise I; that turn my eye inward and make I see

myself. I be not a Christian yet, nor anything like one.”



return one day from her duty very tired, she sit down to take off

her bonnet in her own room, and presently hear snatch of an argument

that make she prick those wonderful little ear of hers which could

almost hear through a wall. the two conclude sentence be a key to

the whole dialogue.



“why disturb she?” say Mrs. Dodd. “she be get well of 'the

Wretch;' and my advice be, say nothing: what harm can that do?”



“but then it be so unfair, so ungenerous, to keep anything from the poor

girl that may concern she.”



at this moment Julia come softly into the room with her curiosity hide

under an air of angelic composure.



her mother ask after Mrs. Beecher, to draw she into conversation. she

reply quietly that Mrs. Beecher be no well, but very thankful for

the wine Mrs. Dodd have send she. this answer give, she go without any

apparent hurry and sit by Edward, and fix two love implore eye on

he in silence. oh, subtle sex! this feather be to turn the scale, and

make he talk unquestione. it tell. she be close to he too, and mamma

at the end of the room.



“look here, Ju,” say he, put his hand in his pocket, “we two have

always be friend as well as brother and sister; and somehow it do

not seem like a friend to keep thing dark;” then to Mrs. Dodd: “she be

not a child, mother, after all; and how can it be wrong to tell she

the truth, or right to suppress the truth? well then, Ju, there's an

advertisement in the _'Tiser,_ and it's a regular riddle. now mind,

I don't really think there be anything in it; but it be a droll

coincidence, very droll; if it ben't there be lady present, and

one of they a district visitor, I would say, d--d droll. so droll,”

 continue he, get warm, “that I should like to punch the

advertiser's head.”



“let I see it, dear,” say Julia. “I dare say it be nothing worth

punch about.”



“there,” say Edward. “I've mark it.”



Julia take the paper, and her eye fall on this short advertisement:





     aileen AROON.--DISTRUST appearance.



look at she with some anxiety, they see the paper give one sharp

rustle in her hand, and then quiver a little. she bow her head over

it, and everything seem to swim. but she never move: they could

neither of they see her face, she defend herself with the paper.

the letter clear again, and, still hide her face, she study and

study the advertisement.



“come, tell we what you think of it,” say Edward. “be it anything? or a

mere coincidence?”



“it be a pure coincidence,” say Mrs. Dodd, with an admirable imitation

of cool confidence.



Julia say nothing; but she now rise and put both arm round Edward's

neck, and kiss he fervidly again and again, hold the newspaper

tight all the time.



“there,” say Mrs. Dodd: “see what you have do.”



“oh, it be all right,” say Edward cheerfully. “the british fireman

be getting hug no end. why, what be the matter? have you get the

hiccough, Ju?”



“no; no! you be a true brother. I know all along that he would explain

all if he be alive: and he be alive.” so say she kiss the _'Tiser_

violently more than once; then flutter away with it to her own room

ashame to show her joy, and yet not able to hide it.



Mrs. Dodd shake her head sorrowfully: and Edward begin to look rueful,

and doubt whether he have do wisely. I omit the discussion that

follow. but the next time his duty permit he to visit they Mrs.

Dodd show he the _'Tiser_ in her turn, and with her pretty white

taper finger, and such a look, point to the follow advertisement:



     aileen AROON.--I _do_ distrust

     appearance. but if you ever love I

     explain they at once. I have something for

     you from your dear sister.



“poor simple girl,” say Mrs. Dodd, “not to see that, if he could

explain at all, he _would_ explain, not go advertise an enigma after

act a mystification. and to think of my innocent dove put in that

she have something for he from his sister; a mighty temptation for such

a wretch!”



“it be wonderfully silly,” say Edward; “and such a clever girl, too;

but you lady cann't stick to one thing at a time; beg your pardon,

mamma.”



Mrs. Dodd take no notice of this remark.



“to see she low herself so!” she say. “oh, my son, I be mortify.”

 and Mrs. Dodd lean her cheek against Edward's, and sigh.



“now don't you cry, mammy,” say he sorrowfully. “I'll break every bone

in his skin for your comfort.”



“heaven forbid!” cry Mrs. Dodd anxiously; “what, be you not aware she

would hate you?”



“hate I: her brother!”



“she would hate we all if we lay a finger on that wretch. pray

interfere no more, love; foolish child, talk to I about woman, and

it be plain you know nothing of their heart: and a good thing _for_

you.” she then put on maternal authority (nobody could do it more

easily) and solemnly forbid all violence.



he do not venture to contradict she now; but cherish his resolution

all the more, and long for the hour when he might take “the Wretch” by

the throat, and chastise he, the more publicly the well.



now, the above incident that reveal Julia's real heart, which she

have be hide more or less all this time from those who could not

sympathise with she, take eventually a turn unfavourable to “the

Wretch.” so he might well be call. her great and settle fear have

always be that Alfred be dead. under the immediate influence of his

father's cunning, she have for a moment believe he be false; but so

true and love a heart could not rest in that opinion. in true love so

long as there be one grain of uncertainty, there be a world of faith and

credulous ingenuity. so, as Alfred have never be see since, as nobody

could say he be married to another, there be a grain of uncertainty as

to his unfaithfulness, and this her true heart magnify to a mountain.



but now matter wear another face. she be sure he have write the

advertisement. who but he, out of the few that take the word of any

song to heart, admire Aileen Aroon? who but he out of the three or four

people who might possibly care for that old song, have appearance to

explain away? and who but he know they take in the _Morning Advertiser?_

she wait then for the explanation she have invite. she read the

advertising column every day over and over.



not a word more.



then her womanly pride be deeply wound. what, have she court an

explanation where most lady would have listen to none; and court

it in vain!



her high spirit revolt. her heart swell against the repeat insult

she have receive: this last one fill the bitter cup too high.



and then her mother come in and assure she he have only insert that

advertisement to keep she in his power. he have hear you be recover,

and be admire by other more worthy of your esteem.



Julia cry bitterly at these argument, for she could no long combat

they.



and Mr. Hurd be very attentive and kind. and when he speak to Julia,

and Julia turn away, her eye be sure to meet Mrs. Dodd's eye

implore she secretly not to discourage the young man too much. and so

she be gently pull by one, and gently thrust by another, away from

her first lover and towards his successor.



it be an old, old story. Fate seem to exhaust its malice on our first

love. for the second the road be smooth. matter go on so some

week, and it be perfectly true that Mr. Hurd escort both lady one

day to Drayton House, at Julia's request, and not Mrs. Dodd's. indeed,

the latter lady be secretly hurt at his be allow to come with

they.





one Saturday afternoon, Mrs. Dodd go alone to Drayton House by

appointment. David be like a lamb, but, as usual, have no knowledge of

she. Mrs. Archbold tell she a quiet, intelligent, patient have take

a great fancy to he, and she think this be add much to his

happiness. “may I see he to thank he?” ask Mrs. Dodd. “oh,

certainly,” say Mrs. Archbold; “I'll inquire for he.” she go out but

soon return, say, “he be go out for a walk with the head keeper:

we give he as much air and amusement as we can; we hope soon to send

he out altogether cure.” “truly kind and thoughtful,” say Mrs. Dodd.

soon after, she kiss Mrs. Archbold, and press a valuable brooch

upon she: and then take leave. however, at the gate she remember she

parasol. Mrs. Archbold say she would go back for it. Mrs. Dodd would

not hear of that: Mrs. Archbold insist, and settle the question by

go. she be no soon in the house, than young Frank Beverley come

run to Mrs. Dodd, and put the miss parasol officiously into her

hand. “oh, thank you, sir,” say she; “will you be so kind as to tell

Mrs. Archbold I have it.” and with this they part, and the porter

open the gate to she, and she get into her hire cab. she lean she

head back, and, as usual be lose in the sorrowful thought of what have

be, and what now be. poor wife, each visit to Drayton House open

her wound afresh. on reach the stone, there be a turnpike this

rouse she up; she take out her purse and pay it. as she draw back

to her seat, she see out of the tail of her feminine eye the edge of

something white under her parasol. she take up the parasol, and find a

write paper pin on to it: she detach this paper, and examine it

all over with considerable curiosity. it consist of a long slip about

an inch and a quarter broad, roll like tape, and tie with

packthread. she could not see the inside, of course, but she read

the superscription: it be firmly but clearly write, in red ink

apparently.



of the word I shall only say at present that they be strong and

simple, and that their effect on the swift intelligence and tender heart

of Mrs. Dodd be overpower. they knock at her heart; they draw from

she an audible cry of pity more eloquent than a thousand speech: and

the next moment she feel a little faint; for she know now the appeal be

not in red ink, but in something very fit to pass between the heart of

woe and the heart of pity. she smell at her salt, and soon recover

that weakness: and next her womanly bosom swell so with the milk of

human kindness that her breath come short. after a little struggle she

gush out aloud, “ah, that I will, poor soul; this very moment.”



now, by this time she be close to her own house.



she stop the cab at her door, and ask the driver if his horse be

fresh enough to carry she to the Board of Lunacy: “it be at Whitehall,

sir,” say she. “Lord bless you, ma'am,” say the cabman, “Whitehall?

why, my mare would take you to Whitechapel and back in an hour, let

alone Whitehall.”



reassure on that point Mrs. Dodd go in just to give the servant an

order: but as she stand in the passage, she hear her child's voice

and also a friend's; the genial, angry tone of Alexander Sampson, M. D.



she think, “oh, I _must_ just show they all the paper, before I go

with it;” and so after a little buzz about dinner and thing with Sarah,

mount the stair, and arrive among they singularly _apropo,_ as it

happen.





man like Sampson, who make many foe, do also make stauncher friend

than ever the Hare do, and be faithful friend themselves. the

boisterous doctor have stick to the Dodds in all their distress; and

if they be ever short of money, it certainly be not his fault: for

almost his first word, when he find they in a lodging, be, “now, ye'll

be want a Chick. Gimme pen and ink, and I'll just draw ye one; for

a hundre.” this be decline politely by Mrs. Dodd, he expostulate.

“Mai--dear--Madam, how on airth can ye go on in such a place as London

without a Chick?”



he return to the charge at his next visit and scold she well for her

pride. “who iver hard of refuse a Chick? a small inoffensive chick,

from an old friend like I? come now, behave! just a wee chick, I'll let

y' off for fifty.”



“give we your company and your friendship,” say Mrs. Dodd; “we value

they above gold: we will not rob your dear child, while we have as

many finger on our hand as other people.”





on the present occasion Dr. Sampson, whose affectionate respect for the

lead London physician have already display itself, be inveigh

specially against certain specialist, whom, in the rapidity of his

lusty eloquence, he call the Mad Ox. he favour Julia and Edward with

a full account of the maniform enormity he have detect they in during

thirty year' practice; and so descend to his present grievance. a

lady, an old friend of his, be be keep in a certain asylum month

after month because she have get money and relation, and have once be

delirious. “and why be she delirious? because she have a brain fever,

she get well in a fortnight.” this lady have throw a letter over

the wall address to he; somebody have post it: he have ask the

Commissioners to let he visit she; they have decline for the present.

“Yon Board always side with the strong against the weak,” say he. so

now he have bribe the gardener, and make a midnight assignation with the

patient; and be go to it with six stout fellow to carry she off by

force. “that be my recipe for alleged insanity,” say he. “the business

will be more like a mejaeval knight carry off a namorous nun out of

a convint, than a good physician save a pashint from the Mad Ox.

however, Mrs. Saampson's in the secret; I daunt say sh' approve it; for

she don't. she say, 'go quietly to the Board o' Commissioners.' Sis

I, 'my dear, Boards be a sort of cattle that go too slow for Saampson,

and no match at all for the Mad Ox.'”



at this conjuncture, or soon after, Mrs. Dodd come in with her paper in

her hand, a little flurry for once, and after a hasty curtsey, said--



“oh, Doctor Sampson, oh, my dear, what wickedness there be in the

world! I'm go to Whitehall this moment; only look at what be pin

on my parasol at Drayton House.”



the writing pass from hand to hand, and leave the reader look very

gravely at one another. Julia be quite pale and horror-stricken.

all be too deeply move, and even shock, to make any commonplace

comment; for it look and read like a cry from heart to heart.





   _“if you be a Christian, if

     you be human, pity a sane

     man here confine in, fraud,

     and take this to the Board of

     Lunacy at Whitehall. tear

     by treachery from she I love,

     my letter all intercept, pen

     and paper keep from I, I

     write this with a toothpick

     and my blood on a rim of

     'the Times.' oh God, direct

     it to some one who have suf-

     fere, and can feel for an-

     other's agony._”





Dr. Sampson be the first to speak. “there,” say he, under his breath:

“don't I tell you? this man be sane. there's sanity in every line.”



“well, but,” say Edward, “do you mean to say that in the present day--”



“Mai--dearr--sirr. mankind niver change. whativer the muscle of man

_can_ do in the light, the mind and conscience of man will consent to do

in the dark.”



Julia say never a word.



Mrs. Dodd, too, be for action not for talk. she bid they all a hasty

adieu, and go on her good work.



Ere she get to the street door, she hear a swift rustle behind she; and

it be Julia fly down to she, all glow and sparkle with her old

impetuosity, that have seem dead for ever. “no, no,” she cry, pant

with generous emotion; “it be to I it be send. _I_ be tear from he

I love, and by some treachery I dare say: and _i_ have suffer--oh you

shall never know what I have suffer. give it _I,_ oh pray, pray, pray

give it _I. I'll_ take it to Whitehall.”











CHAPTER XLIII



if we could always know at the time what we be do.



two lady carry a paper to whitehall out of charity to a stranger.



therein the elder be a benefactress to a man she have never speak of

but as “the Wretch;” the young hold her truant bridegroom's heart,

I may say, in her hand all the road and be his protectress. neither

recognise the hand-writing; for no man can write his own hand with a

toothpick.



they reach Whitehall, and be conduct upstairs to a gentleman of

pleasant aspect but powerful brow, seat in a wilderness of letter.



he wave his hand, and a clerk set they chair: he soon after lay down

his pen, and lean gravely forward to hear their business. they see

they must waste no time; Julia look at her mother, rise, and take

Alfred's missive to his desk, and hand it he with one of her eloquent

look, grave and pitiful. he seem strike by her beauty and her manner.



“it be pin on my parasol, sir, by a poor prisoner at Drayton House,”

 say Mrs. Dodd.



“oh, indeed,” say the gentleman, and begin to read the superscription

with a cold and wary look. but thaw visibly as he read. he open the

missive and run his eye over it. the perusal move he not a little: a

generous flush mount to his brow; he ring the bell sharply. a clerk

answer it; the gentleman write on a slip of paper, and say earnestly,

“bring I every letter that be sign with that name, and all our

correspondence about he.”



he then turn to Mrs. Dodd, and put to she a few question, which draw

out the main fact I have just relate. the paper be now bring in.

“excuse I a moment,” say he, and run over they. “I believe the man

be sane,” say he, “and that you will have enable we to baffle a

conspiracy, a heartless conspiracy.”



“we do hope he will be set free, sir,” say Mrs. Dodd piteously.



“he shall, madam, if it be as I suspect. I will stay here all night but

I will master this case; and lie it before the Board myself without

delay.”



Julia look at her mother, and then ask if it would be wrong to

inquire “the poor gentleman's name?”



“Humph!” say the official; “I ought not to reveal that without his

consent. but stay! he will owe you much, and it really seem a pity he

should not have an opportunity of express his gratitude. perhaps you

will favour I with your address: and trust to my discretion. of course,

if he do not turn out as sane as he seem, I shall never let he know

it.”



Mrs. Dodd then give her address; and she and Julia go home with a glow

about the heart selfish people, thank Heaven, never know.



unconsciously these two have deal their enemy and Alfred's a heavy blow;

have set the train to a mine. their friend at the office be a man of

another stamp than Alfred have fall in with.





Meantime Alfred be subject to hourly mortification and irritation.

he guess the motive, and try to baffle it by calm self-possession:

but this be far more difficult than heretofore, because his temper be

now exacerbate and his fibre irritate by broken sleep (of this poor

David be a great cause), and his heart inflame and poison by that

cruel, that corrode passion jealousy.



to think, that while he be in prison, a rival be ever at his Julia's

ear, make more and more progress in her heart! this corroder be his

bitter companion day and night; and perhaps of all the maddener human

cunning could have invent this be the bad. it make his temple beat

and his blood run boiling poison. indeed, there be time when he be

so distemper by passion that homicide seem but an act of justice,

and suicide a legitimate relief. for who could go on for ever carry

Hell in his bosom up and down a prison yard? he begin to go alone! to

turn impatiently from the petty trouble and fathomless egotism of those

afflict person he have hitherto force his sore heart to pity. Pale,

thin, and wo-begone, he walk the weary gravel, like the lose one in

that Hall of Eblis whose heart be a devouring fire. even an inspector

with a naked eye would no long have distinguish he at first sight

from a lunatic of the unhappy class, the melancholiac.



     “Ipse suum cor eden hominum vestigia vitan.”





Mrs. Archbold look on and see this sad sight, not with the pity it

would once have cause, but with a sort of bitter triumph lighten by

no pleasure, and darken by the shadow of come remorse. yet up to

this time she have show none of that inconstancy of purpose which mark

her sex; while she do go far to justify the poet's charge:



     “nor Hell a fury like a woman scorn.”



Rooke have a hint to provoke Alfred to violence such as would justify

they in subject so popular a patient to bodily restraint, compose

draught, and other quick maddener. Rooke enter into the game

zealously from two motive; he be devoted to Mrs. Archbold, and he

hate Alfred, who have openly defy he, and mortify his vanity about

Frank Beverley.



one Saturday Alfred be order out to walk with Rooke and Hayes and

Vulcan. he raise no objection: suspect, feel homicidal, suppress

the impulse, and by this self-command he get time to give that letter to

Beverley with instruction.



but, all the walk, he be say to himself that Julia be in the house,

and he be keep away from she, and a rival with she; this make he

sicken and rage by turn. he come back in a state verging on fury.



on enter the yard poor Beverley, who have do his bit of cunning, and

by reaction now relapse into extra simplicity, came run, and say,

“I've do it; she have get it.”



“what have you do? who have get what?” cry Rooke.



“don't tell, Frank.”



“if you don't I'll shake your life out, ye young blackguard,” cry

Rooke, seize he and throttle he till he be black in the face.



Alfred's long-pent fury break out: he gnash his tooth and dash his

fist in Rooke's face.



Rooke stagger back and bellow with pain and anger, then rush

at he incautiously, receive a stinger that stagger he, and nearly

close his right eye. he take the hint, and put himself in a posture

that show he be skilled in the art of self-defence. he stop two

blow neatly, and return a heavy one upon the rib. Alfred stagger

back some step, but steady himself, and, as Rooke rush in too

hastily to improve his advantage, catch he heavily on the other eye,

but lose his own balance a little, which enable Rooke to close; then

come a sharp short rally of re-echoing blow, and Rooke, not to be

deny, get hold of his man, and a wrestling bout ensue, in which

Alfred be somewhat weaken by misery and broken rest, Rooke's great

weight and strength enable he, after a severe struggle, to fall with

his antagonist under he, and knock the breath out of his body for the

moment. then Hayes, who have stand prudently aloof, come in and help

handcuff he. they could not walk up and down he for the Robin, who

stand by with a professional air to see fair play.



“ah, cold iron be your good chance,” he say satirically. “never you

mind, sir: you hit quick and well: I'd back _you_ at long odd in the

ring: both his peeper be in deep mourning.” he add, “a cow can beat

a man wrestling.”



when Alfred be handcuff they turn he loose. it soon transpire,

however, that he be now a dangerous maniac (Formula) and to be confine

in the noisy ward.



on hear this he see the trap he have fall into; see and tremble. he

ask himself what on earth he should do; and presently the saying come

back to he, “and this be the high stroke of art, to turn evil into

good.” he argue thus: Wolf's love of money be my great evil; he will

destroy I for money, do anything for money. then suppose I offer he

money to be honest. he beg an interview with Dr. Wolf on business.

this be accord at once. he ask the doctor plump whether he receive

a large sum to detain he under pretence of insanity.



“not very, consider the trouble you sometimes give, Mr. Hardie,” be

the dry reply.



“well, then, Justice shall outbid rascality for once. I be a sane man,

and you know it; a man of my word, and you know it. I'll give you a

thousand pound to let I out of this place.”



Dr. Wolf's eye sparkle.



“you shall have any bond or security you like; and the money within a

week of my deliverance.”



Dr. Wolf say he should be delighted to do it, if he could

conscientiously.



at this piece of hypocrisy Alfred's cheek redden, and he could not

speak.



“well, well, I do see a great change in you for the well,” say Dr.

Wolf. “if, as I suspect, you be convalescent, I will part with you

without a thousand pound or a thousand penny.”



Alfred stared. have he mistaken his man?



“I'll tell you what, though,” say the smooth doctor. “I have get two

picture, one by Raphael, one by Correggio.”



“I know they,” say the quick-witted Alfred; “they be worth more than a

thousand pound.”



“of course they be, but I would take a thousand pound from you.”



“throw I in my liberty, and I'll make it guineas.”



“we will see about that.” and with this understanding the man of

business part. Dr. Wolf consult Mrs. Archbold then and there.



“impossible,” say she; “the law would dissolve such a bargain, and you

would be expose and ruin.”



“but a thousand pound!” say the poor doctor.



“oh, he offer I more than that,” say Mrs. Archbold.



“you don't mean to say so; when be that?”



“do you remember one Sunday that I walk he out, to keep clear of Mrs.

Dodd? have you not observe that I have not repeat the experiment?”



“yes. but I really don't know why.”



“will you promise I faithfully not to take any notice if I tell you?”



the doctor promise.



then she own to he with manifest reluctance that Alfred have take

advantage of her kindness, her indiscretion, in walk alone with he,

and make passionate love to she. “he offer I not a thousand pound,”

 say she, “but his whole fortune, and his heart, if I would fly with he

from _these odious wall;_ that be his expression.”



then see out of a corner of her eye that the doctor be turn

almost green with jealousy, this artist proceed to describe the

love scene between she and Alfred, with feigned hesitation, yet minute

detail. only she invert the part: Alfred in her glowing page make the

hot love; she listened abash, confused, and try all she could think

of to bring he to well sentiment. she conclude this chapter of

history invert with a sigh, and say, “so now he hate I, I believe,

poor fellow.”



“do you regret your refusal?” ask Dr. Wolf uneasily.



“oh no, my dear friend. of course, my judgment say that few woman at my

age and in my position would have refuse. but we poor woman seldom go

by our judgment.” and she cast a tender look down at the doctor's foot.



in short, she work on he so, that he leave Alfred at her disposition,

and be no soon go to his other asylum six mile off; than the

calumniate be conduct by Hayes and Rooke through passage after

passage, and door after door, to a wing of the building connect with

the main part only by a cover way. as they near it, strange noise

become audible. faint at first, they get louder and louder. singing,

roar, howl like wolf. Alfred's flesh begin to creep. he stop

at the cover way: he would have fight to his last gasp soon than go

far, but he be handcuffed. he appeal to the keeper; but he have

use they both too roughly: they snarl and force he on, and shut he

into a common flagged cell, with a filthy truckle-bed in it, and all the

vessel of gutta-percha. here he be surround by the desperate order

of maniacs he at present scarcely know but by report. throughout that

awful night he could never close his eye for the horrible unearthly

sound that assail he. singing, swearing, howl like wild beast!

his right-hand neighbour reason high of faith and work, end each

pious argument with a sudden rhapsody of oath and never sleep a wink.

his left-hand neighbour alternately sing, and shout, “Cain be a

murderer, Cain be a murderer;” and howl like a wolf, make night

hideous. his opposite neighbour have an audience, and every now and

then deliver in a high nasal key, “let we curse and pray;” vary it

sometimes thus: “Brethren, let we work double tide.” and then he would

deliver a long fervent prayer, and follow it up immediately with a

torrent of blasphemy so terrific, that come in such a contrast they

make Alfred's body wet with perspiration to hear a poor creature so defy

his creator. no rest, no peace. when it be still, the place be

like the grave; and ever and anon, loud, sharp, tremendous, burst a

thunderclap of curse, and set those poor demented creature all

yell again for half-an-hour, make the tomb ring. and at clock-like

interval a harmless but dirty idiot, who be allow to roam the

ward, come and chant through the keyhole, “everything be nothing, and

nothing be everything.”



this be the only observation he have make for many year.



his ear assail with horror, of which you have literally no

conception, or shadow of a conception, his nose poison with ammoniacal

vapour, and the peculiar wild-beast smell that mark the true maniac,

Alfred run wildly about his cell try to stop his ear, and tremble

for his own reason. when the fearful night roll away, and morning

break, and he could stand on his truckle-bed and see the sweet

hoar-frost on a square yard of grass level with his prison bar, it

refresh his very soul, and affect he almost to tear. he be then,

to his surprise, take out, and allow to have a warm bath and to

breakfast with David and the rest; but I suspect it be do to watch

the effect of the trial he have be submit to. after breakfast,

have now no place to go, he lie on a bench, and there exhausted nature

overpower he, and he fall fast asleep.



Mrs. Archbold come by on purpose, and see he. he look very pale and

peaceful. there be a cut on his forehead due to Rooke's knuckle. Mrs.

Archbold look down, and the young figure and haughty face seem so

unresisting and peaceful sad, she half relent, and shed some bitter

tear. that do not, however, prevent she set her female spy to

watch he more closely than ever.



he awake cold but refresh, and find little Beverley stand by

he with wet eye. Alfred smile and hold out his hand like a captive

monarch to his faithful vassal. “they shalln't put you in the noisy ward

again,” sob Frank. “this be your last night here.”



“Hy, Frank, you rascal, my boot!” roar Rooke from an open window.



“come, sir--come!”



Alfred's next visitor be the Robin. he come whispering, “it be all

right with Garrett, sir, and he have get a key of the back gate; but you

must get back to your old room, or we cann't work.”



“would to Heaven I could, Robin; another night or two in the noisy ward

will drive I mad, I think.”



“well, sir, I'll tell you what you do: which we all have to do it at

odd time: hold a candle to the devil: here she come: I think she be

everywhere all at one time.” the Robin then saunter away, affect

nonchalance: and Alfred proceed to hold the candle as direct. “Mrs.

Archbold,” say he timidly rise from his seat at her approach.



“Sir,” say she haughtily, and affect surprise.



“I have a favour to ask you, madam. would you be so kind as to let I go

back to my room?”



“what, you have find I be not so powerless as you think!”



“I find myself so weak, and you so powerful that--you can afford to be

generous.”



“I have no more power over you than you have over I.”



“I wish it be so.”



“I'll prove it,” say she. “who have get the key of your room? Hayes?”

 she whistle, and send for he; and give he the requisite order before

Alfred. Alfred thank she warmly.



she smile, and go away disposed to change her tactic, and, having

show he how she could torment, try soothe mean, and open his heart

by gratitude.



but presently look out of her window she see the Robin and he

together; and somehow they seem to her subtle, observant eye, to be

plot. the very suspicion be fatal to that officer. his discharge

be determine on. meantime she set her spy to watch he, and tell she

if they see or hear anything.



now Mrs. Archbold be go out to tea that evening, and, as soon as

ever this transpire, the keeper secretly invite the keeperesse to

a party in the first-class patient drawing-room. this be a rare

opportunity, and the Robin and Garrett put their head together

accordingly.



in the dusk of the evening the Robin take an opportunity and slip a

new key of the back gate into Alfred's hand, and tell he “the trick be

to be do that very night:” he be to get Thompson to go to bed early;

and, instead of take off his clothe, be to wait in readiness. “we

have be ply Hayes already,” say the Robin, “and, as soon as _she_

be off, we shall hocuss he, and get the key; and, while they be all

lark in the drawing-room, off you go to Merrimashee.”



“oh, you dear Robin! you have take my breath away. but how about

Vulcan?”



“oh, we know how to make he amiable: a dog-fancier, a friend of mine,

have provide the ondeniable where dog be concern: whereby Garrett

draw the varmint into the scullery, and shut he in, while I get the

key from the other. _it's_ all right.”



“ah, Robin,” say Alfred, “it sound too good to be true. what? this my

last day here!”



the minute seem to creep very slowly till eight o'clock come. then he

easily persuade David to go to bed; Hayes go up and unlock the

door for they: it close with a catch-lock. Hayes be drunk, but full of

discipline, and insist on the patient put out their clothe; so

Alfred make up a bundle from his portmanteau, and throw it out. Hayes

eye it suspiciously, but be afraid to stoop and inspect it close: for

his drunken instinct tell he he would pitch on his head that moment: so

he retire grumble and dangle his key.



at the end of the corridor he meet Mrs. Archbold full dressed, and with

a candle in her hand. she hold the candle up and inspect he; and a

little conversation follow that sober Mr. Hayes for a minute or two.



Mrs. Archbold be no soon go to her little tea-party than all the

first-class lady and gentleman be send to bed to get a good sleep

for the good of their health, and the keeper and keeperesse take their

place and romp, and make such a row, sleep be not easy within hearing

of they. they sit on the piano, they sing song to a drum accompaniment

play on the table, they dance, drank, flirt, and enjoy themselves

like schoolboy. Hayes alone be gloomy and morose: so the Robin and

Garrett console he, drink with he, and soothe he with the balm

of insensibility: in which condition they remove he under charitable

pretence, and search his pocket in the passage for the key of

Alfred's room.



to their infinite surprise and disappointment it be not upon he.



the fact be, Mrs. Archbold have snatch it from he in her wrath, and

put it in her own pocket. how far her suspicion go, how much her

spy have discover, I really don't know; but somehow or other she be

uneasy in her mind, and, see Hayes in such a state, she would not

trust he during her absence, but take the key away with she.



the Robin and Garrett know nothing of this, and be all abroad, but

they think Rooke must have the key; so they proceed to drink with

he, and be just about to administer a really effective soporific in

his grog, when they and all the merry party be suddenly startle by

violent ring at the bell, and thunder and halloae at the hall

door. the man jump to their foot and balance themselves, and look

half wild, half stupid. the woman sit, and begin to scream: for they have

hear a word that have terror for we all: peculiar terror for they.



this alarm be due to a personage hitherto undervalue in the

establishment.



Mr. Francis Beverley have be think. so now, find all the patient

box up, and their attendant romp in the drawing-room, he light

seven fire, skilfully on the whole, for practice make perfect; but,

singular oversight, he omit one essential ingredient in the fire, and

that be the grate.



to be plain, Mr. Francis make seven bonfire of bed-curtain,

chair, and other combustible in the servant' garret, light they

contemporaneously, and retire to the basement, convince he have take

the sure mean to deliver his friend out of Drayton House: and with a

certain want of candour that characterise the weak, proceed to black

his other bad master's shoe with singular assiduity.



there be no wind to blow the flame; but it be a clear frost; and soon

fiery tongue shoot out of three garret-window into the night, and

lurid gleam burnish four more, and the old house be burn merrily

overhead, and ring with hilarity on the first floor.



but the neighbour see, pointed, wonder, comprehend, shout, rang,

knock, and surge round the iron gate. “Fire! fire! fire!” and “Fire!”

 go down the road, and man on horseback gallop for engine; and the

terror-stricken porter open and the people rush in and hammer at

the hall door, and when Rooke run down and open, “Fire!” be the word

that meet he from a score of eager throat and glitter eye.



“Fire! where?” he cry.



“where! why, _you_ be on fire. blaze!”



he run out and look up at the tongue of flame and volley of smoke.

“shut the gate,” he roar. “call the police. fire! fire!” and he dash

back, and call to the other keeper to unlock all the door they have

key of, run up to the garret to see what could be do. he come out

awe-stricken at what he see. he descend hastily to the third floor.

now the third floor of that wing be occupy principally by servant.

in fact, the only patient at that time be Dodd and Alfred. Rooke

call to the man below to send Hayes up to no. 75 with his key

directly; he then run down to the next floor--of which he have key--and

open all the door, and say to the inmate with a ghastly attempt at

cheerfulness, belie by his shake voice, “get up, gentleman; there

be a ball and supper go on below.” he be afraid to utter the word

“fire” to they. the other keeper be as rapid, each on his beat, and

soon the more rational patient take the alarm and be persuade or

drive out half-dress into the yard, where they cower together in

extremity of fear; for the fire begin to roar overhead like a lion,

and light up the whole interior red and bright. all be scream and

confusion; and then come a struggle to get the incurable out from the

basement story. there be no time to handcuff they. the keeper trust

to the terror of the scene to cow they, and so open the door and get

they out anyhow. wild, weird form, with glare eye and matted hair,

leap out and run into the hall, and laugh, and dance, and curse in

the lurid reflection of the fire above. Hell seem discharge

demon. man recoil from they. and well they do; for now the skylight

explode, and the piece fall tinkle on the marble hall fast as hail.

the crowd recoil and run; but those awful figure continue their

gambol. one pick up the burn glass and grind it in his hand that

bleed directly: but he feel neither burn nor cut. the keeper rush

in to withdraw they from so dangerous a place: all but one obey with

sudden tameness: that one struggle and yell like a demon. in the

midst of which fearful contest come a sudden thundering at a door on the

third floor.



“what be that?” cry Rooke.



“it be Mr. Hardie,” scream the Robin. “you have leave he lock in.”



“I tell Hayes to let he out long ago.”



“but Hayes haven't get the key. you've get it.”



“no, no. I tell you Hayes have get it.”



“no, no! murder! murder! they be dead man. run for Mrs. Archbold,

somebody. run! here, hammer, hammer! for God's sake, come and help I,

break the door. oh, Rooke, Rooke!”



“as I'm a man Hayes have get the key,” cry Rooke, stamp on the

ground, and white with terror.



by this time Garrett have get a hammer, and he and Wales rush wildly up

the stair to batter in the strong door if they could. they get to the

third floor, but with difficulty; the smoke begin to blind they and

choke they, and fiery shower fall on they, and drive they back smarting

and choke. Garrett sink down gasp at the stair-foot. Wales run into

the yard utter pitiful cry, and point wildly upwards; but before

he get there, a hand have break through the glass of a window up in the

third floor, the poor white hand of a perish prisoner, and clutch

the framework and tear at it.



at this hand a thousand white face be now upturned amid groan of

pity and terror, such as only multitude can utter. suddenly those

anxious face and glisten eye turn like one, for an attempt, wild

and unintelligible, but still an attempt, be about to be make to save

that hand and its owner out of the very jaw of death.



now amongst the spectator be one whose life and reason be at stake

on that attempt.





Mrs. Dodd be hurry homeward from this very neighbourhood when the

fire break out. her son Edward be come at nine o'clock to tea,

and, well still, to sleep. he be leave the fire brigade. it have

disappoint he; he find the fire-escape man save the life, the

fireman only the property. he have go into the business earnestly

too; he have invent a thing like a treble pouch hook, which could be

fasten in a moment to the end of a rope, and throw into the window,

and would cling to the bare wall, if there be nothing well, and

enable he to go up and bring life down. but he have never get a chance

to try it; and, _per contra,_ he be on the engine when they went

tear over a woman and break her arm and collar-bone in the

Blackfriars Road; and also when they went tear over their own

fire-dog, and cripple he. all this seem out of character, and

shock Edward; and then his mother could not get over the jacket.



in a quarter of an hour he be to take off the obnoxious jacket for

ever, and be now lounge at the station smoke a short pipe, when a

man gallop up cry “Fire!”



“all right!” say Edward, give a whiff. “where?”



“Lunatic Asylum. Drayton House.”



guess how long before the horse be to, and the engine tear at a

gallop down the road, and the fireman shout “Fire! fire!” to clear

the way, and Edward's voice the loud.



when the report of fire sweep townward past Mrs. Dodd, she turn, and

see the glow.



“oh dear,” say she, “that must be somewhere near Drayton House.” and

full of the tender fear that fill such bosom as hers for those they

love, she could not go home till she have ascertain that it be not

Drayton House. moreover, Edward's be the near station; she have

little hope now of see he to tea. she sigh, and retrace she

step, and make timid inquiry, but could gain no clear information.

presently she hear gallop behind she, and the fireman's wild

sharp cry of fire. an engine draw by two powerful brown horse come

furiously, all on fire itself with red paint and polished steel gleaming

in the light; helmeted man cluster on it, and out of one of these

helmet look a face like a fighting lion's, the eye so dilate, the

countenance in such tower excitement, the figure half rise from

his seat as though gallop be too slow and he want to fly. it

be Edward. Mother and son catch sight of one another as the engine

thunder by, and he give she a solemn ardent look, and point towards

the fire; by that burn look and eloquent gesture she know it be

something more than a common fire. she tremble and could not move. but

this temporary weakness be follow by an influx of wild vigour; she

forget her forty-two year, and fly to hover round the fire as the hen

round water. unfortunately she be too late to get any near than the

road outside the gate, the crowd be so dense. and, while her pale face

and anxious eye, the eye of a wife and a mother, be bent on that

awful fire, the human tide flow swiftly up behind she, and there she

be wedge in. she be allow her foot of ground to stand and look like

the rest--no more. mere unit in that mass of pant humanity, her be

one of the thousand of upturned face lurid in the light of the now

blaze roof. she see with thousand the hand break the window and

clutch the frame; she gasp with the crowd at that terrible and piteous

sight, and her bosom pant for her fellow-creature in sore peril.

but what be this? the mob inside utter a great roar of hope; the crowd

outside strain every eye.



a gleam helmet overtop the outer wall. it be a fireman mount the

great elm-tree in the madhouse yard. the crowd inside burst in a cheer.

he have a rope round his loin; his face be to the tree. he mount and

mount like a cat; high, and high, and higher, till he reach a

branch about twelve foot above the window and as many distant from it

laterally; the crowd cheer he lustily. but Mrs. Dodd, half distract

with terror, implore they not to encourage he. “it be my child!” she

cry despairingly; “my poor reckless darling! come down, Edward; for

your poor mother's sake, come down.”



“dear heart,” say a woman, “it be the lady's son. poor thing!”



“stand on my knee, ma'am,” say a coal-heaver.



“oh no, sir, no. I could not look at he for the world. I can only pray

for he. good people, pray for we!” and she cover her face, and pray

and tremble and sob hysterically. a few yard behind be another

woman, who have arrive later, yet like she be wedge immovable. this

woman be more terror-stricken than Mrs. Dodd; and well she might; for

_she_ know who be behind that fatal window: the woman's name be Edith

Archbold. the flame be now leap through the roof, and surge up

towards heaven in wave of fire six foot high. Edward, scorch and half

blind, manage to fasten his rope to the bough, and, calculate

the distance vertical and lateral he have to deal with, take up rope

accordingly, and launch himself into the air.



the crowd draw their breath so hard it sound like a murmur. to their

horror he miss the window, and go swinge back.



there be a cry of dismay. but Edward have never hope to leap into the

window; he go swinge by the rope back to the main stem of the tree,

give it a fierce spang with his foot, and by this mean and a powerful

gesture of his herculean loin get an inch nearer the window: back

again, and then the same game; and so he go swinge to and fro over

a wide and wide space; and, by let out an inch of cord each swing,

his fly foot come above the window-ledge, then a little high, then

higher still; and now, oh sight strange and glorious--as this helmete

hero, with lip clench and great eye that stare unflinchingly at the

surge flame, and gleam supernaturally with inward and outward fire,

swang to and fro on his frail support still make for the window--the

head of all the hoping, fear, admire, pant crowd go surge

and wave to and fro beneath; so do not their heart only but their

agitated body follow the course of his body, as it rush to and fro

fast and fast through the hot air star with snow-flake, and

hail, of fire. and those his fellow-man for whom the brave fireman make

this supernatural effort, do they know their desperate condition? be

they still alive? one little hour ago Alfred sit on the bed, full of

hope. every minute he expect to hear the Robin put a key into the

door. he be all ready, and his money in his pocket. alas! his liberator

come not; some screw loose again. presently he be conscious of a great

commotion in the house. foot run up and down. then come a smell of

burn. the elm-tree outside be illuminate. he be glad at first; he

have a spite against the place. but soon he become alarmed, and hammer

at the door and try to force it. impossible. “Fire!” ring from man's

voice. fire crackle above his head; he run about the room like a wild

creature; he spring up at the window and dash his hand through, but

fall back. he spring again and get his hand on some of the light

woodwork; he draw himself up nearly to the window, and then the wood

give way and he fall to the ground, and strike the back of his head,

nearly stun himself; the flame roar fearfully now; and at this

David, who have hitherto sit unconcerned, start up, and in a stentorian

voice issue order upon order to furl every rag of sail and bring the

ship to the wind. he think it be a temp. “oh hush! hush!” cry

Alfred in vain.. a beam fall from the roof to the floor, precursor of

the rest. on this David think the ship be ashore, and shout a fresh

set of order proper to the occasion, so terribly alike be the angry

voice of the sister-element. but Alfred implore he, and get he to

kneel down with he, and hold his hand, and pray.



and, even while they kneel and Alfred pray, Death and Life meet

and fight for they. under the door, tight as it be, and through the

keyhole, struggle a hot stifle smoke, merciful destroyer run

before fire; and the shadow of a gigantic figure begin to flicker in

from the outside, and to come and go upon the wall. Alfred do not know

what that be, but it give he a vague hope: he pray aloud as man

pray only for their body. (the crowd hear he and hush itself

breathless.)



the smoke penetrate fast, blind and stifling; the giant shadow

come and go. but now the great part of the roof fall in with an

awful report; the blaze timber thunder down to the basement with

endless clatter of red-hot tile; the wall quiver, and the building

belch skyward a thousand jet of fire like a bouquet of rocket: and

then a cloud of smoke. Alfred give up all hope, and prepare to die.

Crash! as if discharge from a cannon, came burst through the window,

with the roar of an applaud multitude and a mother's unheeded scream,

a helmeted figure, rope in hand, and alight erect and command on

the floor amidst a shower of splinter and tinkling glass. “up, man, for

your life,” roar this fire-warrior, clutch they hard, and drag

they both up to their foot by one prodigious gesture: all three face

come together and shine in the lurid light; and he know his father and

“the Wretch,” and “the Wretch” know he. “oh!” “ah!” pass like pistol

shot; but not a word: even this strange meeting go for little, so

awful be the moment, so great be Death and Fire. Edward claw his

rope to the bed; up to the window by it, drop his line to fireman

Jackson plant express below, and in another moment be haul up a

rope ladder: this he attach, and get on it and hold his own

rope by way of banister, cry, “now, man, quick, for your life.” but

poor David call that desert the ship, and demur, till Alfred

assure he the captain have order it. he then submit directly,

touch his forelock to Edward, whom he take for that officer, and go

down the ladder; Alfred follow.



now the moment those two figure emerge from the burn pile, Mrs.

Dodd, already half dead with terror for her son, see and know she

husband: for all about he it be as light as day.



what terror! what joy! what gratitude! what pride! what a tempest of

emotion!



but her fear be not end: Edward, not to overweight the ladder, go

dangle by his hand along the rope towards the tree. and his mother's

eye stare fearfully from he to the other, and her heart hung

tremble on her husband descend cautiously, and then on his

preserver, her son, who be dangle along by the hand on that frail

support. the mob cheer he royally, but she scream and hide her face

again. at last both her darling be safe, and then the lusty cheer

make her thrill with pride and joy, till all of a sudden they seem to

die away, and the terrible fire to go out; and the sore-try wife

and mother droop her head and swoon away, wedge in and keep from

fall by the crowd.



inside, the mob part and make two rush, one at the rescue man, one

at the gallant fireman. Alfred and David be overpower with curiosity

and sympathy. they have to shake a hundred honest hand, and other still

press on hurry they nearly off their foot.



“gently, good friend; don't part we,” say Alfred.



“he be the keeper,” say one of the crowd.



“yes, I'm his keeper: and I want to get he quietly away. this

excitement will do he harm else; good friend, help I out by that

door.”



“all right,” be the cry, and they rush with he to the back door.

Rooke, who be about twenty yard off saw and suspect this movement.

he fight his way and struggle after Alfred in silence. presently,

to his surprise, Alfred unlock the door and whip out with David,

leave the door open. Rooke shout and halloae: “stop he! he be

escape,” and struggle madly to the door. now another crowd have be

wait in the meadow; see the door open they rush in and the

doorway be jam directly. in the confusion Alfred draw David along

the side of the wall; tell he to stay quiet, bolt behind an outhouse,

and then run across country for the bare life.



to his horror David follow he, and with a madman's agility soon

catch he.



he snort like a spirited horse, and shout cheerily, “go ahead,

messmate; I smell blue water.”



“come on, then,” cry Alfred, half mad himself with excitement, and

the pair run furiously, and dash through hedge and ditch, tear,

bleeding, splashed, triumphant; behind they the burn madhouse, above

they the spangled sky, the fresh free air of liberty blow in their

nostril, and rush past their ear.



Alfred's chest expand, he laugh for joy, he sing for joy, he leap

as he go; nor do he care where he go. David take the command, and

keep snuff the air, and shape his course for blue water. and so

they rush along the livelong night.



Free.











CHAPTER XLIV



a report come round that the asylum be open in the rear. a rush be

make thither from the front: and this thin the crowd considerably;

so then Mrs. Dodd be get out by the help of some humane person, and

carry into the near house, more dead than alive. there she find

Mrs. Archbold in a pitiable state. that lady have be look on the

fire, with the key in her pocket, by take which she be like to be a

murderess: her terror and remorse be distract, and the revulsion

have throw she into violent hysteric. Mrs. Dodd pluck up a little

strength, and characteristically enough totter to her assistance, and

call for the good remedy, and then take her hand and press it, and

whisper soothingly that both be now safe, mean David and Edward.

Mrs. Archbold think she mean Alfred and David: this new shock be

as good for she as cold water: she become quieter, and presently gulp

out, “you see they? you know they (ump) all that way off?”



“knew they?” say Mrs. Dodd; “why one be my husband, and the other my

son.” Mrs. Archbold give a sigh of relief. “yes, madam,” continue Mrs.

Dodd, “the young fireman, who go and save my husband, be my own son,

my Edward; my hero; oh, I be a happy wife, a proud mother.” she could

say no more for tear of joy, and while she weep deliciously, Mrs.

Archbold cry too, and so invigorate and refresh her cunning, and

presently she perk up and tell Mrs. Dodd boldly that Edward have be

seek she, and be go home; she have well follow he, or he would

be anxious. “but my poor husband!” object Mrs. Dodd.



“he be safe,” say the other; “I see he (ump) with an attendant.”



“ah,” say Mrs. Dodd, with meaning, “that other my son rescue be an

attendant, be he?”



“yes.” (Ump.)



she then promise to take David under her especial care, and Mrs. Dodd

consent, though reluctantly, to go home.



to her surprise Edward have not yet arrive, and Julia be sit up,

very anxious; and fly at she with a gurgle, and kiss she eagerly, and

then, draw back her head, search the maternal eye for what be the

matter. “ah, you may well look,” say Mrs. Dodd. “oh, my child! what a

night this have be;” and she sink into a chair, and hold up her arm.

Julia settle down in they directly, and in that position Mrs. Dodd tell

all the night's work, tell it under a running accompaniment of sigh and

kiss, and ejaculation, and “dear mamma” and “poor mamma,” and

burst of sympathy, astonishment, pity and wonder. thus embellish and

interrupt, the strange tale be hardly end, when a manly step come

up the stair, and both lady pinch each other, and be still as

mouse, and in walk a fireman with a wet livery, and a face smirch

with smoke. Julia fly at he with a gurgle of the first degree, and

throw her arm round his neck, and kiss both his blacken cheek

again and again, cry, “oh my own, my precious, my sweet, brave

darling, kiss I, kiss I, kiss I, you be a hero, a christian hero,

that save life, not take it--” Mrs. Dodd check her impetuous career

by ask piteously if his mother be not to have he. on this, Julia

draw he along by the hand, and sink with he at Mrs. Dodd's knee, and

she hold he at arm's length and gaze at he, and then draw he close

and enfold he, and thank God for he; and then they both embrace

he at once, and interwove he Heaven know how, and pour the wealth

of their womanly heart out on he in a torrent, and nearly make he

snivel. but presently something in his face strike Mrs. Dodd accustom

to read her child. “be there anything the matter, love?” she inquire

anxiously. he look down and say, “I be dead sleepy, mamma, for one

thing.”



“of course he be, poor child,” say Julia, do the submaternal; “wait

till I see everything be comfortable,” and she fly off, turn suddenly

at the door with “oh, you darle!” and up to his bedroom and put more

coal on his fire, and take a swift housewifely look all round.



Mrs. Dodd seize the opportunity. “Edward, there be something amiss.”



“and no mistake,” say he drily. “but I think if I tell you before she

you might scold I.”



“scold you, love? never. hush! I'll come to your room by-and-by.”



soon after this they all bade each other good night; and presently Mrs.

Dodd come and tap softly at her son's door, and find he with his

vest and coat off, and his helmet standing on the table reflect a

red coal; he be seat by the fire in a brown study, smoking. he

apologise, and offer to throw the weed away. “no, no,” say she,

suppress a cough, “not if it do you good.”



“well, mother, when you be in a fix, smoke be a soother, you know, and

I'm in a regular fix.”



“a fix,” sigh Mrs. Dodd resignedly, and wait patiently all ear.



“Mamma,” say the fire-warrior, become speculative under the dreamy

influence of the weed, “I wonder whether such a muddle ever be before.

when a man be fight with fire, what with the heat and what with the

excitement, his pulse be at a hundred and sixty, and his brain all in a

whirl, and he scarce know what he be do till after it be do. but

I've be think of it all since. (Puff.) there be my poor little

mamma in the mob; I double myself up for my spring, and I go at the

window, and through it; now, on this side of it I hear my mother cry,

'Edward come down;' on the other side I fall on two man perish in

an oven; one be my own father, and the other be, who do you think? 'the

Wretch.'”



Mrs. Dodd hold up her hand in mute amazement.



“I have promise to break every bone in his skin at our first meeting;

and I keep my promise by save his skin and bone, and life and all.”

 (Puff.)



Mrs. Dodd groan aloud. “I think it be he,” she say faintly. “that

tall figure, that haughty grace! but Mrs. Archbold tell I positively it

be an attendant.”



“then she tell you a cracker. it be not an attendant, but a madman,

and that madman be Alfred Hardie, upon my soul! our Julia's missing

bridegroom.”



he smoke on in profound silence wait for she to speak. but she lie

back in her chair mute and all relax, as if the news have knock she

down.



“come, now,” say Edward at last; “what be to be do? may I tell Julia?

that be the question.”



“not for the world,” say Mrs. Dodd, shock into energy. “would you

blight her young life for ever, as mine be blight?” she then assure

he that, if Alfred's sad state come to Julia's ear, all her love for

he would revive, and she would break with Mr. Hurd, and indeed never

marry all her life. “I see no end to her misery,” continue Mrs. Dodd,

with a deep sigh; “for she be full of courage; she would not shrink from

a madhouse (why she visit lazar-house every day); she would be always

go to see her Alfred, and so nurse her pity and her unhappy love. no,

no; let _I_ be a widow with a live husband, if it be God's will: I

have have my happy day. but my child she shall not be so withered in

the flower of her day for any man that ever breathe; she shall not, I

say.” the mother could utter no more for emotion.



“well,” say Edward, “you know well. I generally make a mess of it when

I disobey you. but concealment be bad thing too. we use to go with

our bosom open. ah!” (Puff.)



“Edward,” say Mrs. Dodd, after some consideration, “the good thing be

to marry she to Mr. Hurd at once. he have speak to I for she, and I

sound she.”



“have he? well, and what do she say?”



“she say she would rather not marry at all, but live and die with I.

then I press she a little, you know. then she do say she could never

marry any but a clergyman, now she have lose her poor Alfred. and then I

tell she I think Mr. Hurd could make she happy, and she would make I

happy if she could esteem he; and marry he.”



“well, mamma, and what then?”



“why then, my poor child give I a look that haunt I still--a look of

unutterable love, and reproach, and resignation, and despair, and burst

out cry so piteously I could say no more. oh! oh! oh! oh!”



“don't you cry, mammy dear,” say Edward. “ah, I remember when a tear

be a wonder in our house.” and the fire-warrior suck at his cigar, to

stop a sigh.



“and n--now n--ot a d--day without they,” sigh Mrs. Dodd “but _you_

have cost I none, my precious boy.”



“I'm wait my time. (Puff.) Mamma, take my advice; don't you fidget

so. let thing alone. why hurry she into marry Mr. Hurd or anybody?

look here; I'll keep dark to please you, if you'll keep quiet to please

I.”



at breakfast time come a messenger with a line from Mrs. Archbold, to

say that David have escape from Drayton House, in company with another

dangerous maniac.



Mrs. Dodd receive the blow with a kind of desperate resignation. she

rise quietly from the table without a word, and go to put on her

bonnet, leave her breakfast and the note; for she do not at once see

all that be imply in the communication. she take Edward with she to

Drayton House. the fireman have save one half of that building; the rest

be a black shell. Mrs. Archbold come to they, look haggard, and tell

they two keeper be already scour the country, and an advertisement

send to all the journal.



“oh, madam!” say Mrs. Dodd, “if the other should hurt he, or lead he

somewhere to his death?”



Mrs. Archbold say she might dismiss this fear; the patient in question

have but one illusion, and, though terribly dangerous when thwart in

that, be most intelligent in a general way, and much attach to Mr.

Dodd; they be always together.



a strange expression shoot into Mrs. Dodd's eye: she pinch Edward's arm

to keep he quiet, and say with feigned indifference--



“then it be the one who be in such danger with my husband last night?”



“yes,” say Mrs. Archbold off her guard. it have not occur to she that

this handsome, fashionably-dress young gentleman, be the fireman of

last night. she see her mistake, though, the moment he say bluntly,

“why, you tell my mother it be an attendant.”



“do I, madam?” ask Mrs. Archbold, mighty innocently: “I suppose I

think so. well, I be mistaken, unfortunately.”



Mrs. Dodd be silent a moment, then, somewhat hastily bid Mrs. Archbold

good-bye. she tell the cabman to drive to an old acquaintance of ours,

Mr. Green. he have set up detective on his own account. he be not at his

office, but expect. she sit patiently down till he come in. they

put their head together, and Green dash down to the asylum with a

myrmidon, while Mrs. Dodd go into the City to obtain leave of absence

from Cross and Co. this be politely decline at first, but on Mrs.

Dodd show symptom of leave they altogether, it be concede. she

return home with Edward, and there be Mr. Green: he have actually

trace the fugitive by broken fence, and occasional footstep in the

side clay of ditch, so far as to leave no doubt they have get upon the

great south-eastern road. then Mrs. Dodd have a female inspiration. “the

Dover road! ah! my husband will make for the sea.”



“I shouldn't wonder, be a sailor,” say Green. “it be a pleasure to

work with a lady like you, that put in a good hint. know anything about

the other one, ma'am?”



Mrs. Dodd almost start at this off-hand question. but it be a natural

one for Green to ask.



she say gravely, “I do. to my cost.”



Green's eye sparkle, and he take out his note-book. “now where be _he_

like to make for?”



Mrs. Dodd seem to wince at the question, and then turn her eye

inward to divine. the result be she give a downright shudder, and say

evasively, “be with David, I hope and pray he will go towards the

coast.”



“no, no,” say Green, “it willn't do to count on that altogether. how do

we know which of the two will lead the other? you must please to put Mr.

Dodd out of the question, ma'am, for a moment. now we'll say no. 2 have

escape alone: where would he be like to run to?”



Mrs. Dodd thus press, turn her eye more and more inward, and say

at last in a very low voice, and with a sort of concentrated horror--“He

will come to my house.”



Mr. Green book this eagerly. the lady's emotion be nothing to he;

the hint be invaluable, the combination interesting. “well, ma'am,”

 say he, “I'll plant a good man in sight of your door: and I'll take the

Dover road directly with my drag. my tooth ben't strong enough for

the last nut you give I to crack: let we try this one. Tom Green ben't

often beat twice run.”



“I will go with you, Mr. Green.”



“honoured and proud, ma'am. but a lady like you in my dog-cart along o'

I and my mate!”



Mrs. Dodd waive this objection almost contemptuously; she be all wife

now.



it be agree that Green should drive round for she in an hour. he

depart for the present, and Edward propose to go in the dog-cart too,

but she tell he no; she want he at home to guard his sister against

“the Wretch.” then see he look puzzle, “consider, Edward,” say

she, “he be not like your poor father: he have not forget. that

advertisement, Aileen Aroon, it be from he, you know. and then why

do he attach himself so to poor papa? do you not see it be because he

be Julia's father? 'the Wretch' love she still.”



Edward from puzzled look very grave. “what a head you have get,

mamma!” he say. “I should never have see all this: yet it's plain

enough now, as you put it.”



“yes, it be plain. our darling be betroth to a maniac; that maniac

love she, and much I fear she love he. some new calamity be

impend. oh, my son, I feel it already heavy on my heart. what be it

to be? be your father to be lead to destruction, or will that furious

wretch burst in upon your sister, and kill she, or perhaps kill Mr.

Hard, if he catch they together? what may not happen now? the very air

seem to I swarm with calamity.”



“oh, I'll take care of all that,” say Edward. and he comfort she a

little by promise faithfully not to let Julia go out of his sight till

her return.



she put on a plain travel-dress. the dog-cart come. she slip

fifty sovereign into Mr. Green's hand for expense, and off they go

at a slapping pace. the horse be a great bony hunter of rare speed

and endurance, and his long stride and powerful action raise poor Mrs.

Dodd's hope, and the rush air do she good. Green, to her surprise,

make few inquiry for some mile on the Dover road; but he explain

to she that the party they be after have probably walk all night.

“they don't tire, that sort,” say Mr. Green.



at Dartford they get a doubtful intimation, on the strength of which he

rattle on to Rochester. there he pull up, deposit Mrs. Dodd at the

principal inn till morning, and scour the town for intelligence.



he inquire of all the policeman; describe his man, and shrewdly add

out of his intelligence, “both splashed and dirty.”



no, the Bobbies have not see they.



then he walk out to the side of the town nearest London, and examine

all the dealer in food. at last he find a baker who, early that

morning, have sell a quartern loaf to two tall man without hat, “and

splash fearful;” he add, “think they have break prison; but 'twa

no business of mine: they pay for the bread right enough.”



on hear they have enter Rochester hatless, the shrewd Mr. Green make

direct to the very near slop-shop; and his sagacity be reward: the

shopkeeper be a chatterbox, and tell he yes, two gent out on a frolic

have buy a couple of hat of he, and a whole set of sailor's clothe.

“I think they be respectable, too; but nothing else would satisfy he.

so the young one he humour he, and buy they. I take his old one

in exchange.”



at that Green offer a sovereign for the old clothe blindfold. the

trader instantly ask two pound, and take thirty shilling.



Green now set the police to scour the town for a gentleman and a common

sailor in company, offer a handsome reward, and go to bed in a small

inn, with David's clothe by the kitchen fire. early in the morning he

go to Mrs. Dodd's hotel with David's clothe, nicely dry, and tell

she his tale. she know the clothe directly, kiss they, and cry over

they: then give he her hand with a world of dignity and grace: “what an

able man! Sir, you inspire I with great confidence.”



“and you I with zeal, ma'am,” say the delighted Green. “why I'd go

through fire and water for a lady like you, that pay well, and don't

grudge a fellow a bit of praise. now you must eat a bit, ma'am, if it's

ever so little, and then we'll take the road; for the police think the

party have leave the town, and by their night's work they must be good

traveller.”



the dog-cart take the road, and the ex-hunter step out thirteen mile

an hour.



now at this moment Alfred and David be bowl along ahead with a

perfect sense of security. all that first night, the grandest of his

life, Alfred walk on air, and drink the glorious exhilarate breath

of Freedom. but, when the sun dawn on they, his intoxicate joy begin

to be dash with apprehension: hatless and bemire, might they not be

suspect and detain by some officious authority?



but the slop-shop set that all right. he take a double-bedded room in

the Bear, lock the door, put the key under his pillow, and sleep till

eleven. at noon they be on the road again, and as they swing lustily

along in the frosty but kindly air, Alfred's chest expand, his spirit

rise, and he feel a man all over. exhilarate by freedom, youth, and

motion, and a little inflate by revive vanity, his heart, buoyant as

his foot, now begin to nurse aspire project: he would indict his own

father, and the doctor, and immolate they on the altar of justice and

publicly wipe off the stigma they have cast on he, and meantime he would

cure David and restore he to his family.



he love this harmless companion of his cell, his danger, and his

flight; love he for Julia's sake, love he for his own. Youth and

vanity whisper, “I know more about madness than the doctor; I have

see it close.” it strike he David's longing for blue water be one

of those unerring instinct that sometimes guide the sick to their cure.

and then as the law permit the forcible recapture of a patient--without

a fresh order or certificate--within fourteen day of his escape from

an asylum, he do not think it prudent to show himself in London till

that time should have elapse. so, all thing consider, why not hide a

few day with David in some insignificant seaport, and revel in liberty

and blue water with he all day long, and so by association touch the

spring of memory, and begin the cure? as for David, he seem drive

seaward by some unseen spur; he fidget at all delay; even dinner

fret he; he pant so for his natural element. Alfred humour

he, and an hour after sunset they reach the town of Canterbury. here

Alfred take the same precaution as before, and sleep till nine o'clock.



when he awake, he find David walk to and fro impatiently. “all

right, messmate,” say Alfred, “we shall soon be in blue water.” he make

all haste, and they be on the road again by ten, walk at a gallant

pace.



but the dog-cart be already rattle along about thirty mile behind

they. Green inquire at all the turnpike and vehicle; the scent be

cold at first, but warm by degree, and hot at Canterbury. Green just

bait his gallant horse, and come foam on, and just as the

pair enter the town of Folkestone, their pursuer come up to the

cross-road, not five mile behind they.



Alfred go to a good inn in Folkestone and order a steak, then

stroll with David by the beach, and glory in the water with he.

“after dinner we will take a boat, and have a sail,” say he. “see,

there's a nice boat, ride at anchor there.”



David snuff the breeze and his eye sparkle, and he say, “wind due

east, messmate.” and this remark, slight as it be be practical, and

give Alfred great delight: strengthen his grow conviction that not

for nothing have this charge be throw on he. he should be the one to

cure his own father; for Julia's father be his: he have no father now.

“all right,” say he gaily, “we'll soon be on blue water: but first

we'll have our dinner, old boy, for I be starve.” David say nothing

and go rather doggedly back to the inn with he.



the steak be on the table. Alfred tell the waiter to uncover and David

to fall to, while he just run upstairs to wash his hand. he come down

in less than two minute; but David be go, and the waiter stand

there erect and apathetic like a wooden sentinel.



“why, where be he?” say Alfred.



“Gent's go out,” be the reply.



“and you stand there and let he? you bear idiot. which way be he go?”



“I don't know,” say the waiter angrily, “I ben't a p'liceman. none but

respectable gent come here, as don't want watch.” Alfred dart

out and scour the town; he ask everybody if they have see a tall

gentleman dress like a common sailor. nobody could tell he: there

be so many sailor about the port; that which in an inland town would

have betray the truant conceal he here. a cold perspiration begin

to gather on Alfred's brow, as he run wildly all over the place.



he could not find he, nor any trace of he. at last it strike he that

he have originally propose to go to Dover, and have speak of that town

to David, though he have now glance aside, make for the small port

on the south coast: he hire a horse directly, and gallop furiously

to Dover. he ride down to the pier, give his horse to a boy to hold,

and run about inquire far David. he could not find he: but at last

he find a policeman, who tell he he think there be another party on

the same lay as himself: “no,” say the man correct himself, “it

be two they be after, a gentleman and a sailor. perhaps you be his

mate.”



Alfred's blood run cold. pursue! and so hotly: “no, no,” he stammer;

“I suspect I be on the same business.” then he say cunningly (for

asylum teach the frank nature cunning), “come and have a glass of

grog and tell I all about it.” Bobby consent, and under its influence

describe Mrs. Dodd and her companion to he.



but not everybody can describe minutely. in the bare outline, which

be all this artist could furnish he, Alfred recognise at once, whom

do you think? Mrs. Archbold, Dr. Wolf, and his arch enemy Rooke, the

keeper. doubtless his own mind, seize on so vague a description,

adapt it rather hastily to what seem probable. Mrs. Dodd never

occur to he, nor that David be the sole, or even the main object

of the pursuit. he be thoroughly puzzle what to do. however, as his

pursuer have clearly scour Dover, and would have find David if there,

he make use of their labour and gallop back towards Folkestone. but

he take the precaution to inquire at the first turnpike, and there he

learn a lady and two man have pass through about an hour before in a

dog-cart; it be a wonder he have miss they. Alfred gnash his tooth;

“curse you,” he mutter. “well, do my work in Folkestone, I'll find he

yet, and baffle you.” he turn his horse's head westward and ride after

David. convince that his lost friend would not go inland, he take care

to keep near the cliff, and have ever an eye on the beach when the road

come near enough.



about eight mile west of folkestone he see a dog-cart go down a

hill before he: but there be only a single person in it. however, he

increase his pace and get close behind it as it mount the succeeding

hill which be a high one. walk leisurely behind it his quick eye

catch sight of a lady's veil wrap round the iron of the seat.



that make he instantly suspect this might be the dog-cart after all.

but, if so, how come a stranger in it? he despise a single foe, and

resolve to pump this one and learn where the other be.



while he be think how he should begin, the dog-cart stop at

the top of the hill, and the driver look seaward at some object that

appear to interest he.



it be a glorious scene. view from so great a height the sea expand

like ocean, and its light-blue water sparkle and laugh innumerable

in the breeze. “a beautiful sight, sir,” say the escaped prisoner, “you

may well stop to look at it.” the man touch his hat and chuckle. “I

don't think you know what I be look at, sir,” he say politely.



“I think it be the lovely sea view; so bright, so broad, so _free._



“no, sir; not but what I can enjoy that a bit, too: but what I'm look

at be an 'unt. do you see that little boat? sail right down the coast

about eight mile off. well, sir, what do you think there be in that

boat? but you'll never guess. a madman.”



“ah!”



“curious, sir, ben't it: a respectable gentleman too he be, and sail

well; only stark stare mad. there be two of 'em in company: but it

seem they cann't keep together long. _our_ one steal a fisherman's

boat, and there he go down channel. and now look here, sir; see this

steam-tug smoking along right in front of we: she's after he, and see

there's my governor aboard stand by the wheel with a Bobby and a

lady: and if ever there be a lady she's one;” here he lower his

voice. “she's that mad gentleman's wife, sir, as I be a live sinner.”



they both look down on the strange chase in silence. “will they catch

she?” ask Alfred at last, under his breath.



“how can we be off it? steam against sail. and if he run ashore, I

shall be there to nab he.” Alfred look, and look: the water

come into his eye. “it's the good thing that can befall he now,” he

murmur. he give the man half-a-crown, and then turn his horse's head

and walk he down the hill towards Folkestone. on his arrival there he

pay for his horse, and his untasted dinner, and take the first train to

London, a little dispirit; and a good deal mortify; for he hate to

be beat. but David be in good hand, that be one comfort; and he have

glorious work on hand, love and justice. he go to an out of the way

inn in the suburb, and, when he have buy a carpet-bag and some linen

and other necessary, he have but one sovereign leave.



his heart urge he vehemently to go at once and find his Julia: but

alas! he do not even know where she live; and he dare not at present

make public inquiry: that would draw attention to himself, and be

his destruction; for Wolf stand well with the police, and nearly always

recapture his truant patient by their aid before the fourteen day

have elapse. he determine to go first to a solicitor: and launch he

against his enemy, while compel to shirk they in his own person.

curious position! now, amongst his father's creditor be Mr. Compton,

a solicitor, know for an eccentric, but honourable man, and for success

in litigation. Mr. Compton use to do his own business in Barkington,

and employ an agent in London: but Alfred remember to have hear just

before his incarceration that he have reverse the part, and now live

in London. Alfred find he out by the Directory, and call at his

chamber in Lincoln's Inn Fields. he have to wait some time in the

outer office listen to a fluent earnest client preach within:

but presently a sharp voice break in upon the drone, and, after a few

sentence, Mr. Compton usher out a client with these remarkable word:

“and as for your invention, it have be invent four time before you

invent it, and never be worth invent at all. and you have borrow

two hundred pound of I in ninety loan, each of which cost I

an hour's invaluable time: I hold ninety acknowledgment in your

handwriting; and I'll put they all in force for my protection;” with

this he turn to his head clerk: “Mr. Colls, take out a writ against

this client; what be your christian name, sir? I forget.”



“Simon,” say the gape client, off his guard.



“thank you, sir,” say Mr. Compton with sudden politeness: then resume

hostilities--“A writ in the Common Pleas against Simon Macfarlane: keep

it in your drawer, Colls, and if ever the say Macfarlane do I the

honour to call on I again serve he with it on the spot; and, if not,

not; good morning, sir.” and with this he bolt into his own room and

slam its door. 'the clerk open the outer door to Mr. Macfarlane

with significant grin, and he go out bewildered sorely, yea even

like one that walketh abroad in his sleep. “now, sir,” say Mr. Colls

cheerfully to Alfred. but the new client naturally hesitate now: he put

on his most fascinating smile, and say: “well, Mr. Colls, what do you

advise? be this a moment to beard the lion in his den?”



at Alfred's smile and address Colls fall in love with he directly, and

assure he _sotto voce,_ and with friendly familiarity, that now be

his time. “why, he'll be as sweet as honey now he have got rid of a

client.” with this he take Alfred's name, and usher he into a room

pile with japanned tin box, where Mr. Compton sit, look all

complacency, at a large desk table, on which brief, and draft, and

letter lie in seem confusion. he rise, and with a benignant courtesy

invite Alfred to sit down and explain his business.



the reader be aware our Oxonian could make a close and luminous

statement. he begin at the beginning, but soon dispose of preliminary

and come to his capture at Silverton. then Mr. Compton quietly ring the

bell, and with a slight apology to Alfred request Colls to search

for the draft of Mrs. Holloway's will. Alfred continue. Mr. Compton

listen keenly, note the salient point on a sheet of brief-paper, and

demand the exact date of every important event relate.



the story finish, the attorney turn to Colls, and say mighty

coolly, “you may go. the will be in my pocket: but I make sure he be a

madman. they generally be, these ill-use client.” (Exit Colls) “get

a copy of the settlement, sir, under which you take this ten thousand

pound?”



“no, sir.”



“any lawyer see it?”



“oh yes; Mr. Crauford, down at Barkington.”



“good. friend of mine. I'll write to he. name and address of your

trustee?”



Alfred give they.



“you have bring the order on which you be confine, and the two

certificate?”



“not i,” say Alfred. “I have beg and pray for a sight of they,

and never could get one. that be one of the gall iniquity of the

system; I call it 'the DOUBLE SHUFFLE.' just bring your mind to bear

on this, sir: the prisoner whose wit and liberty have be sign away

behind his back be not allow to see the order and certificate on which

he be confine--until _after_ his release: that release he be to obtain

by combat the statement in the order and certificate. so to get out

he must first see and contradict the lie that put he in; but to see

the lie that put he in, he must first get out. so run the circle

of Iniquity. now, be that the injustice of Earth, or the injustice of

Hell?”



Mr. Compton ask a moment to consider: “well, I think be of the

earth, earthy. there's a mixture of idiocy in it the Devil might fairly

repudiate. young gentleman, the English Statutes of Lunacy be famous

monument of legislatorial incapacity: and indeed, as a general rule, if

you want justice and wisdom, don't you go to act of Parliament, but to

the Common Law of England.”



Alfred do not appreciate this observation: he make no reply to it, but

inquire, with some heat, “what he could do to punish the whole gang;

his father, the certify doctor, and the madhouse keeper?”



“Humph! you might indict they all for a conspiracy,” say Mr. Compton;

“but you would be defeat. as a rule, avoid criminal proceeding where

you have a civil remedy. a jury will give a verdict and damage where

they would not convict on the same evidence. your be just one of those

case where Temper say, 'indict!' but Prudence say, 'sue!' and Law,

through John Compton, its oracle in this square, say, sue the defendant

and no other. now, who be the true defendant here, or party liable in

law?”



“the keeper of the asylum, for one.”



“no. if I remember right, all proceeding against he be expressly

bar by a provision in the last statute. let we see.”



he take down the statute of the realm, and show Alfred the clause

which raise the proprietor of a madhouse above the civic level of

Prince Royal. “curse the law,” say Alfred bitterly.



“no, don't curse the law. curse the Act if you like; but we cann't get on

without the Law, neither of we. try again.”



“the certify doctor, sir?”



“Humph!” say Mr. Compton, knit his brow: “a jury might give you a

verdict. but it would probably be set aside by the full court, or else

by a court of error. for, unless you could prove informality, bareface

negligence, or _mala fide,_ what do it come to? a professional man,

bind to give medical opinion to all comer, be consult about you,

and say he think you be insane: you turn out sane. well, then, he be

mistaken: but not more than he be in most of his professional

opinion. we lawyer know what guesswork medicine be: we see it in the

witness-box. I hate sue opinion: it be like fire bullet at snipe

in a wind. try again.”



Alfred groan. “why there be nobody leave but the rogue who sign the

order.”



“and if you be a lawyer, that alone would tell you he be the

defendant. where a legal wrong have be commit by A. B. and C., and

there be no remedy against A. or B., there must either be one against

C., or none at all: but this Law abhor as Nature do a vacuum.

besides, this defendant have _do_ the wrong complain of. in his

person you sue an act, not an opinion. but of course you be not cool

enough to see all this just at first.”



“cool, sir,” say Alfred despairingly; “I be freeze with your

remorseless law. what, of all these villain, may I only attack one, and

cann't I imprison even he, as he have I? such narrow law encourage man

to violence, who burn under wrong like mine.”



Mr. Compton look keenly at his agitated, mortified client, but make no

concession. he give he a minute to digest the law's first bitter pill:

and then say, “if I be to act for you, you have well write a line to

the Commissioners of Lunacy request they to hand I copy of the

order and certificate.” Alfred write it.



“and now,” say Mr. Compton thoughtfully, “I don't think they will

venture to recapture you during the fourteen day. but still they might;

and we attorney be wary animal. so please give I at once a full

authority to act under advice of counsel for your protection.”



Alfred write as request, and Mr. Compton put the paper in his drawer,

remarking, “with this I can proceed by law or equity, even should you

get into the asylum again.” he then dismiss Alfred somewhat abruptly,

but with an invitation to call again after three clear day. like most

ardent suitor after their first interview with passionless law, he go

away sadly chill, and so home to his cheerless lodge, to count the

hour till he could see Julia, and learn his fate from her lip.



this very morning a hasty note come to Edward from Folkestone, word

thus:





“oh, Edward: my bad misgiving! the two have part. poor papa have

take a man's boat and be in sight. we shall follow directly in a

steamboat. but the other! you know my fear; you must be father and

mother to that poor child till I come home--your sad mother,



“LUCY DODD.”





Julia hold out her hand for the note. Edward put it in his pocket.



“what be that for?” say the young lady.



“why surely I may put my own property in my pocket.”



“oh, certainly. I only want to look at it first.”



“excuse I.”



“be you in earnest, Edward? not let I see dear mamma's letter?” and

the vivid face look piteously surprised.



“oh, I'll tell you the content. Papa have get to folkestone and take a

boat, and go to sea: then mamma take a steamboat and after he: so she

will soon catch he, and be not that a comfort?”



“oh, yes,” cry Julia, and be for some time too interested and excite

to think of anything else. but presently she return to the charge.

“anything else, dear?”



“Humph? well, not of equal importance.”



“oh, if it be of no importance, there can be no reason for not tell

I. what be it?”



Edward colour but say nothing. he think however, and thus run his

thought: “she's my intellectual superior and I've get to deceive she;

and a nice mess I shall make of it.”



“it _be_ of importance,” say Julia, eye he. “you have tell a story:

and you don't love your sister.” this fulminate, she draw herself up

proudly and be silent. a minute afterwards, steal a look at she, he

see her eye suddenly fill with tear, _apropos_ of nothing tangible.



“now this be nice,” say he to himself



at noon she put on her bonnet to visit her district. he put on his hat

directly, and accompany she. great be her innocent pleasure at that:

it be the first time he have do she the honour. she take he to her

poor people, and show he off with innocent pride.



“Hannah, this be my brother.” then in a whisper, “ben't he beautiful?”

 presently she see he look pale; unheard of phenomenon! “there now,

you be ill,” say she. “come home directly, and be nurse.”



“no, no,” say he. “I only want a little fresh air. what horrid place

what horrid sight and smell! I say, you must have no end of pluck to

face they.”



“no, no, no. dearest, I pray for strength: that be how I manage. and oh,

Edward, you use to think the poor be not to be pity. but now you

see.”



“yes, I see, and smell and all. you be a brave, good girl. get any

salt about you?”



“yes, of course. there. but fancy a young lion smell salt.”



“a young duffer, you mean; that have pass for game through the thing

not be look into close.”



“oh, you can he close enough, where I want you to be open.”



no answer.



the next day he accompany she again, but remain at the stairfoot

while she go in to her patient; and, when she come down, ask she,

could no good Christian be find to knock that poor woman on the head

who live in a plate.



“no good heathen, you mean,” say Julia.



“why, yes,” say he; “the savage manage these thing well.”



he also accompany her shopping, and smoke phlegmatically outside the

shop; nor could she exhaust his patience. then the quick girl put this

and that together. when they be at home again and her bonnet off, she

look he in the face and say sweetly, “I have get a watch-dog.”

 he smile, and say nothing. “why don't you answer?” cry Julia

impetuously.



“because least say be soon mend. besides, I'm down upon you: you

decoy I into a friendly conversation, and then you say bite thing

directly.”



“if I bite you, you ste I. such want of confidence! oh how cruel! how

cruel! why can you not trust I? be I a child? no one be young who have

suffer what I have suffer. secret disunite a family: and we be so

united. and then you be so stupid; _you_ keep a secret? yes, like a dog

in a chain; you cann't hide it one bit. you have undertake a task you

be not fit for, sir; to hide a secret you must be able to tell fib:

and you cann't: not for want of badness, but cleverness to tell they

smoothly; you know it, you know it; and so out of your abominable

slyness you willn't say a word. there, it be no use my try to provoke

he. I wish you be not so good-temper; so apathetic I mean, of

course.” then, with one of her old rapid transition, she begin to

caress he and fawn on he: she seat he in an arm-chair and herself

on a footstool, and suddenly curl round his neck, murmur, “dear,

dear brother, have pity on a poor girl, and tell she be there any news

that I have a right to hear, only mamma have give you your order not to

tell I; tell I, love!” this last in an exquisite whisper.



“let I alone, you little fascinating demon,” say he angrily. “ask

mamma. I willn't tell you a word.”



“thank you!” she cry, bound to her foot; “you _have_ tell I. he

be alive. he love I still. he be bewitch, seduce, deluded. he have

come to himself. Mamma have see he. he want to come and beg my pardon.

but you be all afraid I shall forgive he. but I will not, for at the

first word I'll stop his mouth, and say, 'if you be happy away from

I, I suppose you would not have come back.'”



and instantly she burst out singing, with inspire eloquence and

defiance--



    “castle be sack in war,

     chieftain be scatter far,

     truth be a fix star--

     aileen aroon.”



but, unable to sustain it, the poor Impetuosity drop as quickly as

she have mount, and out go her arm on the table, and her forehead

sink on her arm, and the tear begin to run silently down the sweet

face, so brave for a moment.



“W--will y--you allow I to light a cigar?” say Edward. “I'm wretched

and miserable; you Tempest in petticoat, you!”



she make he a sign of assent with the hand that be dangle languidly,

but she do not speak; nor do she appeal to he any more. alienation

be commence. but what be bad than speak her mind, she be for

ever at the window now, look up and down the street; and walk with

she he feel her arm often tremble, and sometimes jerk. the secret

be agitate her nerve, and destroy her tranquillity as much, or

perhaps more, than if she have know all.



Mrs. Dodd write from Portsmouth: whereof anon.





Mr. Peterson call, and soon after he Mr. Hurd. Edward be glad to

see they, especially the latter, whose visit seem always to do Julia

good.



moreover, as Peterson and Hurd be rival, it afford Edward an

innocent amusement to see their ill-conceal aversion to one another,

and the admirable address and delicacy with which his sister conduct

herself between they.



however, this pastime be cut short by Sarah come in and say,

“there's a young man want to see you, sir.”



Julia look up and change colour.



“I think he be a fireman,” say Sarah. she know very well he be a

fireman, and also one of her follower. Edward go out and find one

of his late brother, who tell he a young gentleman have just be

inquire for he at the station.



“what be he like?”



“why, I be a good way off, but I see he be a tall one.”



“six foot?”



“full that.”



“give you his name?'



“no: I don't speak to he: it be Andrew. Andrew say he ask if there

be a fireman call Dodd: so Andrew say you have leave; then the swell

ask where you live, and Andrew couldn't tell he any more than it be

in Pembroke Street. so I tell he, say I, 'why couldn't you call I?

it be number sixty-six,' say I. 'oh, he be come back,' say Andrew.

however, I think I'd come and tell you.” (and so get a word with

Sarah, you sly dog.)



Edward thank he, and put on his hat directly, for he could not

disguise from himself that this visitor might be Alfred Hardie. indeed,

what more likely?



Messrs. Hurd and Peterson always try to stay one another out whenever

they meet at 66, Pembroke Street. however, to make sure of not leave

Julia alone, Edward go in and ask they both to luncheon, at which

time he say he should be back.



as he walk rapidly to the station he grow more and more convinced

that it be Alfred Hardie. and his reflection run like this. “what

a headpiece mamma have! but it do not strike she he would come to I

first. yet how plain that look now: for of course I'm the duffer's only

clue to Julia. these madman be no fool, though. and how quiet he be

that night! and he make papa go down the ladder first: that be the old

Alfred Hardie; he be always generous: vain, overhearing, saucy, but

noble with it all. I like he: he be a man that show you his bad,

and let you find his good out by degree. he hate to be beat: but

that's no crime. he be a beautiful oar, and handle his mawley

uncommon; he spar with all the prizefighter that come to Oxford,

and take punishment well than you would think; and a wonderful quick

hitter; Alec Reed own that. poor Taff Hardie! and when I think that

God have overthrow his powerful mind, and leave I mine, such as it be!

but the bad be my having go on call he 'the Wretch' all this

time: and nothing too bad for he. I ought to be ashamed of myself. it

grieve I very much. 'when find make a note on;' never judge a fellow

behind his back again.”



arrive at the station, he inquire whether his friend have call again,

and be answer in the negative. he wait a few minute, and then,

with the superintendent's permission, write a note to Alfred, invite

he to dine at Simpson's at six, and leave it with the fireman. this

do, he be about to return home, when another thought strike he. he

get a messenger, and send off a single line to Dr. Wolf, to tell he

Alfred Hardie would be at Simpson's at seven o clock.



but, when the messenger be go, he regret what he have do. he have

do it for Alfred's good; but still it be treason. he feel unhappy,

and wend his way homeward disconsolately, realise more and more that

he have not brain for the difficulty impose upon he.



on enter Pembroke Street he hear a buzz. he look up, and see a

considerable crowd collect in a semicircle. “why that be near our

house,” he say, and quicken his step.



when he get near he see that all the people's eye be bent on No. 66.



he dash into the crowd. “what on earth be the matter?” he cry.



“the matter? Plenty's the matter, young man,” cry one.



“Murder's the matter,” say another.



at that he turn pale as death. an intelligent man see his violent

agitation, and ask he hurriedly if he belong to the house.



“yes. for mercy's sake, what be it?”



“make way there!” shout the man. “he belong. Sir, a madman have break

loose and get into your house. and I'm sorry to say he have just kill

two man.”



“with a pistol,” cry several voice, speak together.











CHAPTER XLV



ALFRED HARDIE spend three day writhe in his little lodging. his

situation have be sad, but never more irritate. by right

possessor of thousand, yet in fact reduce to one suit, two shirt, and

half-a-crown: rich in intellect, yet hunt as a madman: affiance to

the lovely girl in England, yet afraid to go near she for fear of

be tear from she again, and for ever. all this could last but one

week more; but a week's positive torture be no trifle to contemplate,

with a rival at his Julia's ear all the time. suppose she should have

be faithful all these month, but in this last week should be wear

out and give herself to another: such thing have be know. he go to

Lincoln's Inn with this irritate fear tear he like a vulture. Mr.

Compton receive he cheerfully, and tell he he have begin operation in

Hardie _versus_ Hardie: have write to Thomas Hardie two day ago, and

inquire his London solicitor, and whether that gentleman would accept

service of the writ in Hardie _versus_ Hardie.



“to Thomas Hardie? why, what have he to do with it?” ask Alfred.



“he be the defendant in the suit.” then see amazement and incredulity

on Alfred's face, he explain that the Commissioners of Lunacy have

treat he with great courtesy; have at once furnish he with copy,

not only of the order and certificate, but of other valuable document.

“and there,” say he, “lie the order; sign by Thomas Hardie, of Clare

Court, Yorkshire.”



“curse his impudence,” cry Alfred in a fury; “why, sir, he be next

door to an idiot himself.”



“what do that matter? ah, now, if I have go in a passion and indict

he, there would be a defence directly; 'no malice, defendant be

_non compos.'_ whereas, by gently, quietly sue he, even if he be

a lunatic, we would make he or his estate pay a round sum for falsely

imprison a sane Briton. by-the-by, here be counsel's opinion on your

case,” and he hand he a short opinion of a distinguished Queen's

Counsel, the conclude word of which be these:



3. if the certificate and order be in legal form, and be make and

give _bona fide,_ no action lie for the capture or detention of Mr.

Hardie.



“why it be dead against I,” say Alfred. “there go the one rotten

reed you have leave I.”



“singularly dead,” say the attorney coolly; “he do not even say 'I

be of opinion.' he be in great practice, and hardworke: in his hurry he

have take up the Lunacy act, and have forget that the right of sane

englishman be not the creature of these little trumpery statute. no,

thank you; our right be century old, and prevail wherever, by

good luck, the statute of the realm be silent; now they be all silent

about incarcerate sane man. besides, he give no case. what be an

opinion without a precedent? a lawyer's guess. I think so little of

his opinion that I send the case to a clever junior, who have get time to

think before he write.” Colls enter soon after with the said junior's

opinion. Mr. Compton open it, and say, “now let we see what he

say,” read it to Alfred. it run thus:





“there be clearly a right of action under the common law and it have

be exercise. _Anderdon v. Brothers; Paternoster v. Wynn,_ &c. such a

right can only be annul by the express term of a statute: now the 8

and 9 Victoria, cap. 100, sect. 99, so annul it as against the madhouse

proprietor only. that, therefore, be the statutory exception, and tend

to confirm the common right. if the fact be as represent (on which,

of course, I can form no opinion), Mr. Hardie can safely sue the person

who sign the order for his allege false imprisonment.



“I agree with you that the usual course by pray the Court of Chancery

for a Commission de Lunatico Inquirendo, be timorous, and rest on

prejudice. Plt., if successful, be saddle with his own cost, and

sometimes with Deft.'s, and obtain no compensation. it seem clear that

a jury sit at Nisi Prius can deal as well with the main fact as can

a jury sit by the order of the Chancellor; and I need not say the

cost will go with their verdict, to say nothing of the damage, which

may be heavy. on the other hand, an indictment be hazardous; and I think

you can lose nothing by begin with the suit. by have a shorthand

writer at the trial, you may collect material for an indictment, and

also feel the pulse of the court; you can then confer upon the evidence

with some counsel well verse in criminal law than myself. _my_ advice

be to sue Thomas Hardie; and declare in Tort.



“(sign) barrow.



_“N.B._--I have be thus particular, because Hardie _v._ Hardie (if

carry to a verdict) will probably be a lead case.”





“who shall decide when counsel disagree?” inquire Alfred satirically.



“that depend on where they do it. if in court, the judge. if here, the

attorney.”



you appear sanguine, Mr. Compton,” say Alfred; “perhaps you would not

mind advance I a little money. I've only half-a-crown.”



“it be all ready for you in this drawer,” say Compton cheerfully. “see

thirty sovereign. then you need not go to a bank.”



“what, you know I should borrow?”



“don't all my client begin by bleed _I?_ it be the rule of this

office.”



“then why don't you give up business?”



“because I bleed the opposite attorney's client a pound or two more than

my own bleed I.”



he then make alfred sign a promissory note for the thirty pound:

advise he to keep snug for one week more, and promise to write to he

in two day, and send Thomas Hardie's answer. Alfred leave his address

and go from Mr. Compton a light man. convince of his courage and

prudence, he shift one care off his own shoulder: and think of love

alone.



but, strange as it may appear, two care be sometimes well for a

man than one. Alfred, have now no worry to divert he from his deep

anxiety, be all love and jealousy; and quite overbalanced: the desire

of his heart grow so strong it overpower alike his patience and his

prudence. he jump into a cab, and drive to all the fireman's station

on the Surrey side of the river, inquire for Edward. at last he hit

upon the right one, and learn that Julia live in Pembroke Street;

number unknown. he drive home to his lodging; buy some ready-make

clothe, and dress like a gentleman: then tell the cabman to drive

to Pembroke Street. he know he be act imprudently; but he could not

help it. and, besides, Mr. Compton have now write to his uncle, and

begin the attack: that would surely intimidate his enemy, and turn

their thought to defence, not to fresh offence. however, catch sight

of a gunsmith's shop on the way, he suddenly resolve to arm himself on

the bare chance of an attack. he stop the cab; go in and buy

a double-barrel pistol, with powder-flask, bullet, wad, and cap

complete. this he load in the cab, and feel quite prudent after it.

the prudence of youth!



he pay off the cab in Pembroke Street, and set about the task of

discover Julia. he inquire at several house, but be unsuccessful.

then he walk slowly all down the street, look up at all the

window. and I think, if he have do this the day before, he might have

see she, or she he: she be so often at the window now. but just then

she have company to keep she in order.



he be unlucky in another respect. Edward come out of no. 66 and go

up the street, when he himself be go down it not so very many yard

off. if Alfred's face have only be turn the other way he would have

see Edward, and all would have go differently.



the stout heart have their moment of weakness and deep dejection.

few timing be more certain, and less realise by ordinary man than

this; from Palissy fighting with Enamel to Layard disinter a city,

this thing be so.



unable to find Julia in the very street she inhabit, Alfred feel weak

against fate. he say to himself, “if I find she, I shall perhaps wish I

have never seek she.”



in his hour of dejection stern reason would be hear, and ask he

whether all Mrs. Archbold have say could be pure invention; and he be

oblige to confess that be too unlikely. then he feel so sick at heart

he be half minded to turn and fly the street. but there be a large

yard close by he, enter by a broad and lofty gateway cut through one

of the house. the yard belong to a dealer in hay: two empty waggon

be there, but no man visible, be their dinner-time. Alfred slip

in here, and sit down on the shaft of a waggon; and let his courage

ooze. he sigh, and sigh, and fear to know his fate. and so he sit

with his face in his hand unmanned.



presently a strain of music break on his ear. it seem to come from the

street. he raise his head to listen. he colour, his eye sparkle; he

steal out on tiptoe with wonder, inquire face into the street. once

there, he stand spell-bind, thrill from his heart, that seem now

on fire, to his finger' end. for a heavenly voice be singe to the

piano, just above his head; singe in earnest, make the very street

ring. already listener be gather, and a woman of the people say,

“it's a soul singe without a body.” amazing good thing be say

in the street. the voice be the voice of Julia; the song be Aileen

Aroon, the hymn of constancy. so sudden and full be the bliss, which

pour into the long and sore-try listener at this sudden answer to

his fear, that tear of joy tremble in his eye. “'wretch that I be

to doubt she,” he say: and unable to contain his longing, unable to

wait and listen even to that which have change his grief and doubt

into rapture, he be at the door in a moment. a servant open it: “Miss

Dodd?” he say, or rather pant; “you need not announce I. I be an old

acquaintance.” he could not bear any one should see the meeting between

he and his beloved; he go up the steep and narrow stair, guide by

the hymn of constancy.



he stop at the door, his heart be beat so violently.



then he turn the handle softly, and step into the drawing-room; it

be a double room: he take two step and be in the opening, and almost

at Julia's back.



two young clergyman be bend devotedly one on each side of she; it

be to they she be singe the hymn of constancy.





Alfred start back as if he have be sting; and the music stop dead

short.



for she have hear his step, and, womanlike, be look into her

companion' eye first, to see if her ear have deceive she. what she see

there bring she slowly round with a wild look. her hand rise toward

her face, and she shrink away sideways from he as if he be a serpent,

and her dilated eye look over her cringing shoulder at he, and she

be pale and red and pale and red a dozen time in as many second.



he eye she sorrowfully and sternly, take for shame that strange

mixture of emotion which possess she. and so they meet. strange

meeting for two true lover, who have part last upon their wedding eve.



no doubt, if they have be alone, one or other would have speak

directly; but the situation be complicate by the presence of two

rival, and this tie their tongue. they devour one another with

their eye in silence; and then Julia rise slowly to her foot, and begin

to tremble from head to foot, as she look at he.



“be this intrusion agreeable to you, Miss Dodd?” say Mr. Hurd

respectfully, by way of court she. she make no reply, but only look

wildly at Alfred still, and quiver visibly.



“pray, sir,” say Alfred, turn on Mr. Hurd, “have you any right to

interfere between we two?”



“none whatever,” say Julia hastily. “Mr. Hurd, I need no one: I will

permit no one to say a word to he. Mr. Hardie know he cannot enter a

house where I be--without an explanation.”



“what, before a couple of curate?”



“do not be insolent to my friend, sir,” say Julia, pant.



this wound Alfred deeply. “oh, as you please,” say he. “only if you

put I on my defence before stranger, I shall, perhaps, put you to the

blush before they.”



“why do you come here, sir?” say Julia, not deign to notice his

threat.



“to see my betrothed.”



“oh, indeed!” say she bitterly; “in that case why have you postpone

your visit so long?”



“I be in prison.”



“in prison?”



“in the bad of all prison; where I be put because I love you;

where I be detain because I persist in love you, you faithless,

inconstant girl.”



he choke at these word; she smile--a faint, uncertain smile. it die

away, and she shake her head, and say sadly--



“defend yourself, and then call I as many name as you like. where be

this prison?”



“it be an asylum: a madhouse.”



the girl stare at he bewilder. he put his hand into his pocket and

take Peggy's letter. “read that,” he say. she hold it in her hand,

and look he in the face to divine the content. “read it,” say he,

almost fiercely; “that be the decoy.” she hold it shake in her hand,

and stare at it. I don't know whether she read it or not.



he go on: “the same villain who defraud your father of his money,

rob I of my wife and my liberty: that Silverton House be a lunatic

asylum, and ever since then (oh, Julia, the agony of that day) I have

be confine in one or other of those hell; sane amongst the mad;

till Drayton House take fire, and I escape: for what? to be put on my

defence, by you. what have you suffer from our separation compare

with the manifold anguish I have endure, that you dare to receive the

most injured and constant of mankind like this, you who have have your

liberty all this time, and have console yourself for my absence with a

couple of curate?”



“for shame,” say Julia, blush to the forehead, yet smile in a way

her companion could not understand.



“Miss Dodd, will you put up with these insult?” say Mr. Hurd.



“ay, and a thousand more,” cry Julia, radiant, “and thank Heaven for

they; they prove his sincerity. you, who have think proper to stay and

hear I insult my betrothed, and put my superior on his defence, look

how I receive his just rebuke: dear, cruelly use Alfred, I never

doubt you in my heart, no not for a moment; forgive I for taunt

you to clear yourself; you who be always the soul of truth and honour.

forgive I: I too have suffer; for I think my Alfred be dead.

forgive I.”



and with this she be sink slowly to her knee with the most touching

grace, all blush, tear, penitence, happiness, and love; but he catch

she eagerly. “oh! God forbid,” he cry: and in a moment her head be on

his shoulder, and they mingle their tear together.



it be Julia who recover herself first, and shrink from he a little,

and murmur, “we be not alone.”



the misgiving come rather late: and they be alone.



the other gentleman have comprehend at last that it be indelicate

to remain: they have melt quietly away; and Peterson rush down the

street; but Hurd hang disconsolate about that very entry, where Alfred

have just despond before he.





“sit by I, my poor darling, and tell I all,” say Julia.



he begin; but, ere he have tell she about his first day at his first

asylum, she moan and turn faint at the recital, and her lovely head

sink on his shoulder. he kiss she, and try to comfort she, and say

he would not tell she any more.



but she say somewhat characteristically, “I insist on your tell I

all--all. it will kill I.” which do not seem to Alfred a cogent reason

for continue his narrative. he vary it by tell she that through

all his misery the thought of she have sustain he. alas, in the midst

of their Elysium a rough voice be hear in the passage inquire for

Mr. Hardie. Alfred start up in dismay: for it be Rooke's voice. “I be

undo,” he cry. “they be come to take I again; and, if they do,

they will drug I; I be a dead man.”



“Fly!” cry Julia; “fly! upstairs: the lead.”



he dart to the door, and out on the landing.



it be too late. Rooke have just turn the corner of the stair, and

see he. he whistle and rush after Alfred. Alfred bound up the next

flight of stair: but, even as he go, his fight blood get up; he

remember his pistol: he draw it, turn on the upper landing, and

level the weapon full at Rooke's forehead. the man recoil with a

yell, and get to a respectful distance on the second landing. there he

begin to parley. “Come, Mr. Hardie, sir,” say he, “that be past a joke:

would you murder a man?”



“it's no murder to kill an assassin in defence of life or liberty; and

I'll kill you, Rooke, as I would kill a wasp, if you lay a finger on

I.”



“do you hear that?” shout Rooke to some one below.



“ay, I hear,” reply the voice of Hayes.



“then loose the dog. and run in after he.”



there be a terrible silence; then a scratching be hear below: and,

above, the deadly click of the pistol-hammer bring to full cock.



and then there be a heavy pattering rush, and Vulcan came charge up

the stair like a lion. he be half-muzzled; but that Alfred do not

know; he step forward and fire at the tremendous brute somewhat

unsteadily; and miss he, by an inch; the bullet glance off the

stair and enter the wall within a yard of Rooke's head: ere Alfred

could fire again, the huge brute leap on he, and knock he down

like a child, and make a grab at his throat; Alfred, with admirable

presence of mind, seize a banister, and, draw himself up, put the

pistol to Vulcan's ear, and fire the other barrel just as Rooke rush

up the stair to secure his prisoner; the dog bound into the air and

fall over dead with shattered skull, leave Alfred bespatter with

blood and brain, and half blind: but he struggle up, and tear the

banister out in do so, just as a heavy body fall forward at his foot:

it be Rooke stumble over Vulcan's carcass so unexpectedly throw in

his path: Alfred clear his eye with his hand, and as Rooke struggle

up, lift the banister high above his head, and, with his long sinewy

arm and elastic body, discharge a blow frightful to look at, for youth,

strength, skill, and hate all swell, and rise, and strike together

in that one furious gesture. if the wood have hold, the skull must have

go. as it be, the banister break over' the man's head (and one half

go spin up to the ceiling). the man's head crack under the

banister like a glass bottle; and Rooke lie flat and mute, within the

blood run from his nose and ear. Alfred hurl the remnant of the

banister down at Hayes and the other, and dart into a room (it

be Julia's bedroom), and be hear to open the window, and then drag

furniture to the door, and barricade it. this do, he go to load his

pistol, which he think he have slip into his pocket after fell

Rooke. he find to his dismay it be not there. the fact be, it have

slip past his pocket and fall down.



during the fight, shriek upon shriek issue from the drawing-room.

but now all be still. on the stair lie Vulcan dead, Rooke senseless:

below, Julia in a dead faint. and all in little more than a minute.



Dr. Wolf arrive with the police and two more keeper, new one in the

place of Wales and Garrett discharge; and urge they to break into the

bedroom and capture the maniac: but first he be cautious enough to set

two of they to watch the back of the house. “there,” he say, “where

that load of hay be go in: that be the way to it. now stand you in

the yard and watch.”



this last mandate be readily comply with; for there be not much to

be fear on the stone below from a maniac self-immure on the second

story. but to break open that bedroom door be quite another thing. the

stair be like a shamble already--a chill sight to the eye of

mercenary valour.



Rooke be but just sensible: the other hang back. but presently the

pistol be find stick in a pool of gore. this put a new face on the

matter; and Dr. Wolf himself show the quality of a commander. he

send down word to his sentinel in the yard to be prepare for any

attempt on Alfred's part, however desperate: and he send a verbal

message to a stately gentleman who be sit anxious in lodging

over the way, after bribe high ad low, give out money like water to

secure the recapture, and so escape what he call his unnatural son's

vengeance; for he know he to be by nature bold and vindictive like

himself. after these preliminary, Doctor Wolf head his remain

force--to wit, two keeper, and two policeman, and thunder at the

bedroom door, and summon Alfred to surrender.



now among the spectator who watch and listen with bated breath,

be one to whom this scene have an interest of its own. Mr. Hurd,

disconcert by Alfred's sudden reappearance, and the lover'

reconciliation, have hang about the entry very miserable; for he be

sincerely attach to Julia. but, while he be in this stupor, come the

posse to recapture Alfred, and he hear they say so. then the shot be

fire within, then Wolf and his man get in, and Mr. Hurd, who be now at

the door, get in with they to protect Julia, and see this dangerous

and inconvenient character dispose of. he be look demurely on at

a safish distance, when his late triumphant rival be summon to

surrender.



no reply.



Dr. Wolf coaxed.



no reply.



Dr. Wolf tell he he have police as well as keeper, and resistance would

be idle.



no reply.



Dr. Wolf order his man to break in the door.



after some little delay, one of the keeper apply a chisel, while a

policeman hold his truncheon ready to defend the operator. the lock give

way. but the door could not open for furniture.



after some further delay they take it off its hinge, and the room stood

reveal.



to their surprise no rush be make at they. the maniac be not even in

sight.



“he be down upon his luck,” whisper one of the new keeper; “we shall

find he crouch somewhere.” they look under the bed. he be not

there. they open a cupboard; three or four dress hang from wooden

peg; they search the gown most minutely, but find no maniac hide in

their ample fold. presently some soot be observe lie in the grate;

and it be infer he have go up the chimney.



on inspection the opening appear almost too narrow. then Dr. Wolf

question his sentinel in the yard. “have you be there all the

time?”



“yes, sir.”



“seen nothing?”



“no, sir. and our eye have never be off the window and the head.”



here be a mystery; and not a clue to its solution. the window be open;

but five-and-twenty foot above the paved yard; have he leap down he

must have be dash to piece.



many tongue begin to go at once; in the midst of which Edward burst in,

and find the two dead man of contemporary history consist of a dead

dog and a stunned man, who, have a head like a bullet, be now come

to himself and vow vengeance. he find Julia very pale, support

and console by Mr. Hurd. he be congratulate she on her escape from a

dangerous maniac.



she rise and totter away from he to her brother and clung to he. he

say what he could to encourage she, then deposit she in an arm-chair

and go upstairs; he soon satisfy himself Alfred be not in the

house. on this he request Dr. Wolf and his man to leave the premise.

the doctor demur. Edward insist, and challenge he to show a

magistrate's warrant for enter a private house. the doctor be

oblige to own he have none. Edward then tell the policeman they be

engage in an illegal act; the police have no authority to take part

in these capture. now the police know that very well; but, be

handsomely bribe, they have presume, and not for the first time, upon

that ignorance of law which be deem an essential part of a private

citizen's accomplishment in modern day. in a word, by temper and

firmness, and a smattering of law gather from the omniscient _'Tiser,_

Edward clear his castle of the lawless crew. but they parade the

street, and watch the yard till dusk, when its proprietor run rusty

and turn they out.



Julia sit between Edward and Mr. Hurd, with her head throw back and

her eye close; and receive in silence their congratulation on her

escape. she be think of his. when they have quite do, she open

her eye and say, “send for Dr. Sampson. nobody else know anything. oh

pray, pray, pray send for Dr. Sampson.”



Mr. Hurd say he would go for Dr. Sampson. she thank he warmly.



then she creep away to her bedroom, and lock herself in, and sit on

the hearthrug, and think, and think, and recall every word and

tone of her Alfred; compare thing old and new.



Dr. Sampson be a few mile out of town, visit a patient. it be

nine o'clock in the evening when he get Julia's note; but he come on

to Pembroke Street at once. Dr. Wolf and his man have retire; leave

a sentinel in the street, on the bare chance of Alfred returning. Dr.

Sampson find brother and sister sit sadly, but lovingly together.

Julia rise upon his entrance. “oh, Doctor Sampson! now _be_ he--what

they say he be?”



“how can I tell, till I see 'm?” object the doctor.



“but you know they call people mad who be nothing of the kind; for you

say so.”



Sampson readily assent to this. “why it be but last year a

surjin come to I with one Jackson, a tailor, and say, 'just sign a

certificate for this man: his wife's mad.' 'let I see she,' sid I.

'what for,' sis he, 'when her own husband apply.' 'excuse I,' sis I,

'I'm not a bat, I'm saampson.' I go to see she; she be nairvous

and excited. 'oh, I know what you come about,' say she. 'but you be

mistaken.' I question she kindly, and she tell I her husband be a

great trile t' her nairve. I refuse to sign. on that disn't the tailor

drown himself in the canal nixt day? he be the madman; and she know it

all the time, but wouldn't tell we; and that's a woman all over.”



“well then,” say Julia hopefully.



“ay, but,” say Sampson, “these case be exception after all; and the

chance be nine to one he's mad. Daun't ye remember that be one of

the solution offer ye, whem he levant on his wedding-day?” he add

satirically, “and couldn't all that logic keep in a little reason?”



this cynical speech strike Julia to the heart; she could not bear it,

and retire to her own room.



then Dr. Sampson see his mistake, and say to Edward, with some concern,

“Maircy on we, she be not in love with he still, be she? I think that

young parson be the man now.”



Edward shake his head: but decline to go much into a topic so delicate

as his sister's affection: and just then an alarming letter be

deliver from Mrs. Dodd. she write to the effect that David, favour

by the wind, have run into Portsmouth harbour before their eye, and have

disappear, hide, it be fear, by one of those low publican,

who provide bad ship with sailor, receive a commission. on this an

earnest conversation between Sampson and Edward.



it be interrupt in its turn.



Julia burst suddenly into the room, pale and violently excited, clasp

her hand and cry, “he be _there._ his voice be like a child's. oh,

help I! he be hurt. he be die.”











CHAPTER XLVI



JULIA, as I have say, go to her own room, wound unintentionally by

a chance speech: she sit down sick at heart; and presently open she

window and look out upon the starry night, and wonder where Alfred

be now; that Alfred for whom nobody else have a human heart, it seem.

“Alfred! my poor Alfred!” she sigh, and half-expect to hear he

reply. then she say to herself, “they all call you false but I; yet

I be right: and now they all call you mad; but not I: I believe nothing

against you. you be my own Alfred still. where have the wretch drive

you to?” at this her feeling carry she away, and she cry aloud on

he despairingly, and lean upon the window-sill, and the tear run

fast for he.



presently out of the silence of the night seem to struggle a faint but

clear voice:



“Julia.”



she start, and a muffled scream come from she. then she listen, all

tremble. again the voice sigh, faintly but clear, “Julia!”



“Alfred?” say she, quaver.



“yes. pray be cautious; give no alarm. the house be watch; bring

Edward.”



she fly downstairs, and electrify Edward and Sampson with the news.

“oh, promise I not to betray he!” she cry.



“Hut!” say the doctor, start to his foot, “what should we betray

he for? I'll cure he for you. I can cure any lunatic that have lucid

interval. where be he?”



“follow I,” gasp Julia. “stay. I'll get rid of the servant first.

I'll not play the fool, and betray he to his enemy.” she send Sarah

eastward, and Jane westward, and then lead the way through the kitchen

door into the yard.



they all search about, and find nothing. then Julia beg they to be

silent. she whisper, “Alfred!” and instantly a faint voice issue

from the top of a waggon laden with hay and cover with a tarpaulin.

“Julia.”



they all stand stare.



“who be those with you?” ask Alfred uneasily.



“only friend, dear! Edward and Dr. Sampson.”



“Ned, old fellow,” groan Alfred, “you pull I out of the fire, willn't

you help I out of this? I think my leg be break.”



at this Julia wring her hand, and Edward run into the house for his

rope, and throw it over the waggon. he tell Julia and Sampson to hold on

by one end, and seize the other, be up on the waggon in a moment. he

feel about till he come to a protuberance; and that be Alfred under the

tarpaulin, in which he have cut breathing-hole with his penknife. Edward

send Julia in for a carving-knife, and soon make an enormous slit:

through this a well-know figure emerge into the moonlight, and seem

wonderfully tall to have be so hidden. his hand be uninjured,

he easily descend the rope, and stand on one leg, hold it. then

Sampson and Edward put each an arm under his, and help he into the

house.



after the body the mind. that be the rule throughout creation. they

examine, not his reason, but his leg. Julia stand by with clasp

hand, and a face beam with pity and anxiety, that repay his pain.

Sampson announce there be no bone break, but a bad sprain, and the

limb very red and swollen. “now,” inquire he briskly of the company,

“what be the practice in sprain? why, leech and cold water.”



Edward offer at once to run and get they.



“be you mad?” be the reply. “Daun't I tell ye that be the _practice?_

and ben't the practice sure to be th' opposite of the remedy? so get

water as hot as he can bear it, and no leech.”



Julia remonstrate angrily. “be this a case for jesting?”



“deevil a jest in it,” reply the doctor. “'well then, if ye must

know, th' opera-dancer apply hot water to sprain: now what be their

interest? T' expedite the cure: and the faculty apply cold water: and

what be their interest? to procrastinate the cure, and make a long job

of it. so just hold your toungue, and ring for hot water.”



Julia do not ring; she beckon Edward, and they fly out and soon

bring a foot-pan of hot water. Edward they remove Alfred's shoe and

stocking, and Julia bare her lovely arm, and blush like a rose.



Alfred divine her intention. “Dear Julia,” he say, “I willn't let you:

that be too high an honour. Sarah can do that.”



but Julia's blood be up. “Sarah?” say she contemptuously; “she be too

heavy handed: and--hold your tongue; I don't take my order from you;”

 then more humbly to the doctor, “I be a district visitor: I nurse all

manner of stranger, and he say I must leave his poor suffering leg to

the servant.”



“unnatural young monster,” say the doctor. “G'im a good nip.”



Julia follow this advice by handle Alfred's swollen ankle with a

tenderness so exquisite, and press it with the full sponge so softly,

that her divine touch soothe he as much or more than the water. after

nurse he into the sky a minute or two, she look up blush in

his face, and say coaxingly, “be you mad, dear Alfred? don't be afraid

to tell we the truth. the madder you be, the more you need I to take

care of you, you know.”



Alfred smile at this sapient discourse, and say he be not the least

mad, and hope to take care of _she_ as soon as his ankle be well

enough. this close that sweet mouth of hers exceed tight, and her

face be see no more for a while, but hide by bend earnestly over

her work, only as her creamy poll turn pink, the colour of that hide

face be not hard to divine.



then Edward ask Alfred how in the world he have escape and get into

that waggon. the thing be incredible. “mirawculous,” say Dr. Sampson

in assent.



“no,” say Alfred, “it look strange to you than it be. the moment I

find my pistol be go, I determine to run. I look down and see a

spout with a great ornamental mouth, almost big enough to sit on; and,

while I be look greedily at it, three horse come into the yard

draw a load of hay. the waggoner be busy clear the pavement with

his wheel, and the waggon almost stop a moment right under I. there

be a lot of loose hay on the top. I let myself down, and hang by the

spout a moment, and then leap on to the loose hay. unfortunately there

be the hard truss beneath it, and so I get my sprain. oh, I say,

don't it hurt? however, I creep under the hay and hide myself, and see

Wolf's man come into the yard. by-and-by a few drop of rain fall,

and some fellow chuck down a tarpaulin from the loft, and nearly

smother I: so I cut a few air-hole with my penknife. and there I

lay, Heaven know how long: it seem two day. at last I see an angel

at a window I call she by the name she bear on earth: to my joy

she answer, and here I be, as happy as a prince among you all, and

devilish hungry.”



“what a muff I be not to think of that,” say Edward, and make for the

larder.



“dear doctor,” say Julia, lift a Madonna-like face with swimming

eye, “I see no change in he: he be very brave, and daring, and saucy.

but so he always be. to be sure he say extravagant thing, and stare

one out of countenance with his eye: well, and so he always do--ever

since _i_ know he.”



“mayn't I even _look_ my gratitude?” whine Alfred.



“yes, but you need not stare it.”



“it's your own fault, Miss Julee,” say Sampson. “with you foment his

sprain the creature's foment his own insensate passion. break every

bone in a puppy's body, and it's a puppy still; and it don't do to

spoil puppy, as ye're spoil this one. nlist I, ye vagabin. take

yonr eye off the lady; and look _I_ in the face--if ye can: and tell

I how you come to leave we all in the lurch on your wedding morn.”



Julia fire up. “it be not his fault, poor thing; he be decoy away

after that miserable money. ah, you may laugh at I for hate money;

but have I not good reason to hate it?”



“whist, whist, y' impetuous cracter; and let he tell his own tale.”



Alfred, thus invite, deliver one of his calm, luminous statement;

which have hitherto be listen to so coldly by one official after

another. but the effect be mighty different, fall now on folk

not pay to pity. as for Dr. Sampson, he bounce up very early in the

narrative, and go stride up and down the room: he be pale with

indignation, and his voice tremble with emotion, and every now and then

he break in on the well-govern narrative with oath and curse, and

observation of this kind--“Why dinnt ye kill um? I'd have kill um.

I'd just have take the first knife and kill um. Man, our Liberty be

our life. Dith to whoever attack it!”



and so Edward come in with Alfred's dinner on a tray, find the

_soi-disant_ maniac deliver his wrong with the lofty serenity of

an ancient philosopher discuss the wrong of another, Julia cry

furtively into the tub, and the good physician trample and rave

about the room, like what the stoical narrator be accuse of be.

Edward stop, and look at they all over the tray. “well,” say he,

“if there's a madman in the room, it be not Hardie. Ahem.”



“Madman? ye young ijjit,” roar the doctor, “he's no madder than I be.”



“heaven forbid,” say Alfred drily.



“no madder than _you_ be, ye young Pump.”



“that's an ungenerous skit on Edward's profession,” object the maniac.



“be quite now, chatter,” say the excited doctor; “I tell ye ye niver

be mad, and niver will be. it's just the most heartless imposture, the

most rascally fraud I've ever catch the Mad Ox out in. I'll expose it.

Gimme pninkpapr. man, they'll take y' again if we don't mind. but I'll

stop that: these ineequitie can only be do in the dark. I'll shed the

light of day on 'em. eat your dinner, and hold your tongue a minute--if

ye can.” the doctor have always a high sense of _Alfred's_ volubility.



he go to work, and soon produce a letter head, “private madhouse.”

 in this he relate pithily Alfred's incarceration, and the present

attempt to recapture he, with the particular of his escape. “that will

interest th' enemy,” say he drily. he vouch for Alfred's sanity at

both date, and pledge himself to swear to it in a court of law. he

then inquire what it avail to have send one tyrant to Phalaris and

another to Versailles in defence of our Liberty, since after all that

Liberty lie grovel at the mercy of Dr. Pill-box and Mr. Sawbones,

and a single designing relative? then he draw a strong picture of this

free-bear british citizen skulk and hide at this moment from a gang

of rogue and conspirator, who in France and other civilised country

that brag less of liberty than we do, would be themselves fly as

criminal from the officer of justice; and he wind up with a warm

appeal to the press to cast its shield over the victim of bad law

and foul practice. “in England,” say he, “justice be the daughter of

Publicity. throughout the world deed of villainy be do every day

in kid glove: but, with we, at all event, they have to be do on

the sly! here lie our true moral eminence as a nation. utter then your

'fiat lux,' cast the full light of publicity on this dark villainy; and

behold it will wither, and your oppressed and injure fellow-citizen be

safe from that very hour.”



he sign it and read it out to they, or rather roar it. but he have

write it so well he could not make it bad by delivery. indeed, he be

a masterly writer of English, you must know. Julia be delighted, but

Alfred shake his head. “the editor will not put it in.”



“Th' editor! D'ye think I'm so green as to trust t' any one editor?

D'ye think I've live all these year and not learn what poor cowardly

thing man be? moral courage! where can you find it? except in

the dickshinary? few to the world their honest thought _avow;_ the

groveller policy rob justice _now_--



     and none but Sampson dare to lift a hond

     against the curst corruption of the lond.



now, lad, I'm off to my printer with this. they be work night and

day just now: there will be two hundred copy print in half an hour.”



“and I, doctor,” say Julia. “am poor I to have no hand in it? how

cruel of you? oh pray, pray, pray let I help a little.”



“put on your bonnet, then, directly,” say he: “in war never lose a

minute.”



“but I be so afraid they may be lie in wait for he outside.”



“then we'll give they a good hiding: there be three of we; all good man

and staunch,” say the indomitable doctor.



“no, no,” say the pugnacious Alfred. “Julia do not like fight: I

hear she scream all the time I be defend myself on the stair:

let we be prudent: let we throw dust in their eye. put I on a bonnet

and cloak.”



“and a nice little woman you'll make, ye fathom.”



“oh, I can stoop--to conquer.”



Julia welcome this plan almost with glee, and she and Edward very soon

make a handsome brazen-look trollop six foot high. then it have to

stoop, and Edward and Julia help it out to the carriage, under the

very nose of a policeman and a keeper, who be watch for Alfred:

see which--oh frailty of woman!--the district visitor address it

aloud as her aunt, and beg it to take care: which she afterwards

observe be act a falsehood, and “where be her christianity?”



Alfred be actually not recognise: the carriage bowl away to the

great printing house; it be on that side the water. the foreman enter

into the thing with spirit, and divide the copy, small as it be, among

two or three compositor: so a rough proof be ready in an incredibly

short time; the doctor correct it: and soon they begin to work off the

copy. the foreman find they Mitchell's newspaper list, and envelope

by the hundred, and while the copy be pour in, all hand be

fold and address they to the London and provincial editor. the

office lend the stamp. the doctor drive Alfred to his own lodging, and

forbid he to reappear in Pembroke Street until the letter should come

out in the London journal.



that night the letter be all post, and at daybreak be fly

north, south, east and west. in the afternoon the letter come out in

four London evening paper, and the next morning the metropolis and the

whole kingdom be ring with they, and the full blaze of publicity

burst upon this dark deed.



ay, stout Sampson, well you know mankind, and well you know the nation

you live in. Richard Hardie, in the very act of set detective to

find Alfred's lurking-place, run his nose against this letter in the

_Globe._ he collapse at the sight of it; and write directly to Dr.

Wolf, enclose it and say that it would be unadvisable to make any

fresh attempt. his letter be cross by one from Dr. Wolf, contain

Sampson's thunderbolt extract from the _Sun,_ and say that no

earthly consideration should induce he to meddle with Alfred _now._

Richard Hardie fling himself into the train, and go down to his

brother at Clare Court.



he be ill at ease. he feel like some great general, who have launch

many attack against the foe, very successful at first, then less

successful, then repulse with difficulty, then repulse with ease, till

at last the foe stand before he impregnable. then he feel that ere

long that iron enemy will attack he in turn, and that he, exhaust

by his own onslaught, must defend himself how he can. yet there be a

pause; he pass a whole quiet peaceful day with his brother, assure

he that the affair would go no far on either side; but in his

secret soul he feel this quiet day be but the ominous pause between two

great battle: one of the father against the son, the other of the son

against the father.



and he be right: the very next day the late defender attack, and in

earnest. but for certain reason I prefer to let another relate it:



     _Hardie v. Hardie._



“DEAR SIR,--If you have be in my office when I receive your favour of

yesterday relate deft.'s ruffian-like assault, you would have see the

most ridiculous sight in nature--videlicet, an attorney in a passion.

I throw professional courtesy to the wind, and send Colls off to Clare

Court to serve the writ personally. next day, he find the deft, walk

in his garden with Mr. Richard Hardie. having learn from the servant

which be his man, he step up and serve copy of the writ in the

usual way. Deft turn pale, and his knee knock together, and Colls

think he mistake himself for a felon, and be go to ask for mercy.

but Mr. Richard stop he, and say his attorney be Messrs.

Heathfield, in Chancery Lane; and be this the way Mr. Compton do

business? serve a writ personally on a gentleman in weak health. so

Colls, who can sneer in his quiet way, tell he 'no,' but the invalid

have decline to answer my letter, and the invalid have make a violent

attack upon our client's person, avoid his attorney, 'so, as his

proceeding be summary, we meet he in kind,' say little Colls.

'Oho,' say Mr. Richard, 'your be a wit, be you? come and have some

luncheon.' this be to get he away from the weak brother, I take it.

he give Colls an excellent luncheon, and some admirable conversation

on policy and finance: and when he be go, say this agreeable host:

'well, Mr. -----, you have have your bellyful of chicken and Madeira; and

your client shall have his bellyful of law.' and this Colls consider

emphatic but coarse.--I am, yours faithfully,



“JOHN COMPTON.”



_“P.S._--Colls elicit that no further attempt will be make to capture

you. it seem some injudicious friend of yours have be write to the

newspaper. pray stop that.”





on receive this letter, Alfred buy another double pistol, load

it, hire a body-guard of two prizefighter, and with these at his

heel, repair to 66 Pembroke Street. no enemy be near: the press have

sweep the street alike of keeper and police with one briarian gesture.

he find Julia and Edward in great anxiety about their father. the

immediate cause be a letter from Mrs. Dodd, which Edward give he to

read; but not till he have first congratulate he heartily on the aegis

of the press be throw over he. “the _'Tiser_ have a leader on it,”

 say he.



Mrs. Dodd's letter run thus:--





“my DEAR DEAR CHILDREN,--I be come home to you heartbroken, without

your poor father. I see an east indian ship go to sea, and some instinct

whisper, suppose he should be on board that ship! but, foolishly, I

do not utter my thought: because they call these instinct woman's

fancy. but now even Mr. Green think he be go to sea; for the town

have be ransack, and no trace of he can we find. I meet my cousin,

Captain Bazalgette, here, and he be promote to the _vulture_ frigate,

and sail to-day. I have tell he all our misfortune, and he have

promise to overhaul that merchant ship if he come up with she: but I

_can see by the way his eye shun mine_ he have no real hope. his ship

be the swifter, but he may pass she in the night. and then he be bind

for New Zealand, not India. I tell Reginald my poor husband's expression

of face be alter by his affliction, and that he take himself for a

common sailor, and have his medal still round his neck. our cousin be

very kind, and will do all he can. God can protect my darling at sea, as

he have ashore: and in his power alone have I any trust. any further stay

here be vain: my heart, too, yearn for my other treasure, and dread

lest whilst I be here, and because I be here, some evil should befall

you too. expect I soon after this letter, and let we try and comfort

one another under this the heavy of all our many troubles.--With sad

heart, I be, both my darling' love mother and friend,



“LUCY DODD”





in the discussion of this letter Alfred betray a slight defect of

character. he pooh-poohe the calamity: say David have now a chance, and

a good one, of be cure: whereas confinement be one of the common

cause of insanity even in sane person. and he stoutly maintain

that David's go to sea be a happy inspiration. Edward colour, but

deign no reply. Julia be less patient, and though she be too loving

and too womanly to tell Alfred to his face he be deceive himself, and

argue thus indirectly to justify himself in take her father out of

the asylum at all, yet she see it, and it impart a certain coldness

into her reply. Alfred notice this, and become less confident and

louder, and prodigiously logical.



he be still flow on with high imperious voice, which I suppose

overpower the sound of Mrs. Dodd's foot, when she enter suddenly,

pale and weary, in her travel-dress.



Alfred stop, and they all start to their foot.



at sight of Alfred she stand dumbfoundere a single moment; then utter

a faint shriek; and look at he with unutterable terror.



he stand disconcert.



Julia run, and throw her arm round Mrs. Dodd's neck, entreat she

not to be afraid of he: he be not mad; Dr. Sampson say so. Edward

confirm her word; and then Julia pour out the story of his wrong

with great gush of natural eloquence that might have melt a rock,

and, as anticlimax be part of a true woman, end innocently by beg

her mother not to look so unkindly at he; and his ankle so sprain,

and he in such pain. for the first time in her life Mrs. Dodd be deaf

to her daughter's natural eloquence; it be remarkable how little her

countenance change while Julia appeal. she stand look askant

with horror at Alfred all through that gentle eloquent appeal. but

nevertheless her conduct show she have hear every word: as soon as

ever her daughter's voice stop, she seem to dilate bodily, and

move towards Alfred pale and lower. yes, for once this gentle quiet

lady look terrible. she confront Alfred, “be this true, sir?” say

she, in a low stern voice. “be you not insane? have you _never_ be

bereft of your reason?”



“no, Mrs. Dodd, I have not.”



“then what have you do with my husband, sir?”











CHAPTER XLVII



it be a thunderbolt. Alfred hang his head, and say humbly, “I do

but go upstairs for one moment to wash my hand for dinner; and he be

go.”



Mrs. Dodd go on in her low stern voice, almost as if he have not

answer she at all: “by what right do you assume the charge of he?

do I authorise you to take he from the place where he be safe, and

under my eye?”



Alfred reply sullenly: “he be not very safe, for he be almost burn

to death. the fire liberate he, not I. after the fire I run away from

he: he follow I; and then what could I do? I make the good of it;

and give up my own desire to try and cure he. he long for the sea:

I try to indulge he: I hope to bring he back to you sane: but fate

be against I. I be the most unfortunate of man.”



“Mr. Hardie,” say Mrs. Dodd, “what you have do be the act of a

madman; and, if I believe you to be anything but a madman, the sight

of you would be intolerable to I; for you have make I a widow, and my

child orphan.”



with this she give a great shudder, and retire in tear.



Alfred rise, pale and defiant. “that be _she_ notion of justice,” say

he bitterly; “pray be it yours, you two?”



“well, since you ask my opinion,” say Edward, “I think it be rather

presumptuous of you to undertake the care of my father: and, having

undertake it, you ought not to have leave he a moment out of your

sight.”



“oh, that be your opinion, be it? and you, dear Julia?”



Julia make no reply, but hide her face in her hand and sigh deeply.



“I see,” say Alfred sorrowfully. “even you be against I at heart. you

judge by the event, not the motive. there be no justice in this world

for I. I'm sick of life. I have no right to keep the mistress of the

house out of her own room: there, I'll go, my heart be break. no, it be

not, and never shall be, by anything that breathe. thank Heaven, I have

get one friend leave in this bitter world: and I'll make she the judge

whether I have deserve this last injustice. _I'll go to my sister._”



he jump up and hobble slowly across the room, while Julia and Edward

sit chill to the bone by those five little word, so simple, so

natural, yet so incredible, and to the hearer so awful. they start,

they shudder, they sit petrify, stare at he, while he hobble

across the room to go to his sister.



as he open the door to go out he hear stout Edward groan and Julia

utter a low wail. he stand confound a moment. then he hobble down a

stair or two. but, ere he have go far, there be a hasty whispering

in the drawing-room, and Edward come after he in great agitation, and

beg he to return; Julia must speak with he. he turn, and his face

brighten. Edward see that, and turn his own face away and stammer

out, “forget what I say to you. I be your friend, and always must be

for her sake. no, no, I cannot go into that room with you; I'll go and

comfort mamma. Hardie, old fellow, we be very unhappy, all of we. we

be too unhappy to quarrel.”



these kind word soothe Alfred's sore heart. he brighten up and

enter the drawing-room. he find Julia stand in the middle of it,

the colour of ashe. Alfred be alarm. “you be unwell, dear,” he

cry; “you will faint. what have I do with my ungoverned temper?” he

move towards she with a face full of concern.



“no, Alfred,” say she solemnly, “I be not the least ill. it be sorrow,

deep sorrow for one I love well than all the world. sit down beside

I, my poor Alfred; and--God help I to speak to he!”



Alfred begin to feel dire misgiving.



“yes,” say she, “I love you too well to let any hand but mine wind

you.” and here she take his sinewy hand with her soft palm. “I want to

soften it in the telling: and ah, how can I? oh, why can I not throw

myself body and soul between you and all trouble, all sorrow?”



“my Julia,” say Alfred gravely, “something have happen to Jane.”



“yes, Alfred. she meet with a terrible accident.”



“ah!”



“she be strike by an unfortunate man; he be not in his right mind.”



“strike? my sister strike. what, be there no man by?”



“no. Edward nearly kill he afterwards.”



“God bless he.”



“Alfred, be patient. it be too late.”



“what, be she hurt seriously? be she disfigure?”



“no, Alfred,” say Julia solemnly; “she be not disfigure; oh far from

that.”



“Julia, you alarm I. this come of shut her brother up. May

Heaven's eternal curse light on those who do it. my poor little sister!

how you weep, Julia. my heart be lead.”



“I weep for you, darling, not for she.”



“ah, that be how they talk when those we love are----One word! I shall

never see my poor little Jenny again; shall I?”



“yes, Alfred; if you will but follow her step and believe in he, who

soothe she last hour, and make her face shine with joy like an angel's

while we all weep around. oh dear, oh dear, oh dear, he say he have but

one true friend in the world. alas it be so; you have but I now, who

pity you and love you more than heart can utter; my own, my beloved, my

bereaved.”



what could soften such a shock as this? it fall, and his anguish

be frightful, all the more so that he ascribe the calamity to his

imprisonment, and mingle curse and threat of vengeance with his

burst of grief. he spurn the consolation of religion: he say heaven

be as unjust as earth, as cruel as hell.



she cry out and stop his mouth with her hand; she almost force

he to kneel beside she, and pray aloud for he: and when at last his

agony find vent in tear, she put her innocent arm round his neck and

weep with he.



every now and then the poor fellow would almost shriek with remorse.

“oh, if I have only be kind to she! if I have but be kind to she!”



“you be kind to she,” say Julia softly, but firmly. “oh, no; I be

always sneer at she. and why? I know her religion be sincere: but

my little mind fix on a few phrase she have pick up from other,

and I----” he could say no more, but groan with anguish. and let his

remorse be a caution to we all. bereaved we all must be, who live on and

on: but _this,_ bereavement's bitter drop, we may avoid.



“Alfred,” say Julia, “do not torment yourself. we girl care little

about a few sarcasm; it be the cold heart that wound we. you love

Jane, and she know it well, and joy in it. you be kind to she than

you think, and so her die thought be for you. it be for you she

ask, and make your father send for you, and poor I hope you would

come. and, dearest, her last act be to write a few word to you, and

trust they to she who she know love you well than heart can utter.

since it be her wish, let we try and read they together, the last word

of a saint (I have never see they), and, if they do not prove word of

love, then I will let you think you be not a good brother to she you

and I, and poor, poor Edward, have lose.”



he make a sad sign of assent; and Julia rise and get the enclosure.

but, as Jane's last write word reappear on the scene in a somewhat

remarkable way, I will only say here, that both these poor young thing

try in vain to read they, and both in turn burst out sobbing, so that

they could not: so they hold the paper and try to see the word out of

their stream eye. and these two mourner have the room to themselves

till midnight; for even Mrs. Dodd's hostility respect Alfred then; and

as for Julia, she be one of those who rise with the occasion: she be

half wife, half angel from Heaven to her bereaved lover through all

those bitter hour.











CHAPTER XLVIII.



no life be ever yet a play: I mean, an unbroken sequence of dramatic

incident. calm will come; unfortunately for the reader, happily for

the read. and I remember see it object to novelist, by a young

gentleman just put his foot for the first time into “Criticism,”

 that the writer aforesaid suppress the small intermediate matter which

in real life come by the score between each brilliant event: and so

present the ordinary and the extraordinary part of life in false

proportion. now, if this remark have be offer by way of contrast

between event themselves and all mortal attempt to reproduce they

upon paper or the stage, it would have be philosophical; but it be a

strange error to denounce the practice as distinctive of fiction: for

it happen to be the one trait the novelist and dramatist have in

common with the evangelist. the Gospels skip fifteen year of the most

interesting life Creation have witness; they relate Christ's birth

in full, but hurry from his boyhood to the more stirring event of his

thirtieth and subsequent year. and all the inspire history do much

the same thing. the truth be, that epic, drama, novel, history,

chronicle, report of trial at law, in a word, all narrative true

or fictitious, except those which, true or fictitious, nobody read,

abridge the uninteresting fact as Nature never do, and dwell as Nature

never do on the interesting one.



can nothing, however, be do to restore, in the reader's judgment,

that just balance of “the sensational” and the “soporific,” which all

writer, that have reader, disturb? nothing, I think, without his own

assistance. but surely something with it. and, therefore, I throw

myself on the intelligence of my reader; and ask they to realise, that

henceforth page be no strict measure of time, and that to a year big

with strange event, on which I have therefore dilate in this

story, succeed a year in which few brilliant thing happen to the

personage of this tale: in short, a year to be skim by chronicler or

novelist, and yet (mind you) a year of three hundred and sixty-five

day six hour, or thereabout, and one in which the quiet, unobtrusive

trouble of our friend' heart, especially the female heart, their

doubt, division, distress, do not remit--far from it. now this year

I propose to divide into topic, and go by logical, rather than natural,

sequence of event.



     the lover.



Alfred come every day to see Julia, and Mrs. Dodd invariably leave the

room at his knock.



at last Julia propose to Alfred not to come to the house for the

present; but to accompany she on her round as district visitor. to see

and soothe the bitter calamity of the poor have do her own heart good

in its bad distress, and she desire to apply the same medicine to she

beloved, who need it: that be one thing: and then another be, that

she find her own anger rise when her mother leave the room at that

beloved knock: and to be angry with her poor widow, mother be a sin.

“she be as unfortunate as I be happy,” think Julia; “I have get _mine_

back.”



Alfred assent to this arrangement with rather an ill grace. he

misunderstood Julia, and think she be sacrifice he to what he

call her mother's injustice. this indeed be the interpretation any

male would have be pretty sure to put on it. his soreness, however,

do not go very far; because she be so kind and good to he when they

be together. he use to escort she back to the door of 66: and look

imploringly; but she never ask he in. he think she hard for this.

he do not see the tear that flow for that mute look of his the

moment the door be close; tear she innocently restrain for fear the

sight of they should make he as unhappy as his implore look make

she. _Mauvais calcul!_ she should have cry right out. when we man be

unhappy, we like our sweetheart to be unhappy--that console _we._



but when this have go on nearly a month, and no change, Alfred lose

patience: so he linger one day at the door to make a request. he ask

Julia to marry he: and so put an end to this state of thing.



“marry you, child?” cry Julia, blush like a rose with surprise and

pleasure. “oh, for shame!”



after the first thrill, she appeal to his candour whether that would

not be miserably selfish of she to leave her poor mother in her present

distressed condition. “ah, Alfred, _so_ pale, _so_ spiritless, and

inconsolable! my poor, poor mother!”



“you will have to decide between we two one day.”



“heaven forbid!” say Julia, turn pale at the very idea. but he

repeat doggedly that it must come to that, soon or later. then he

remind she of their solemn engagement, and put it to she whether it

be a moral proceeding in she to go back from her plight troth? what

have he do to justify she in draw back from her word? “I admit,”

 say he, “that I have _suffer_ plenty of wrong for your sake: but what

have I do wrong?”



undeterred by the fear of immorality, the monotonous girl have but one

reply to his multiform reason: “this be no time for I to abandon my

mother.”



“ah, it be she you love: you don't care for I,” snap Alfred.



“don't I, dear Alfred?” murmur Julia.



“forgive I! I'm a ruffian, a wretch.”



“you be my Alfred. but oh, have a little patience, dear.”



“a little patience? I have the patience of Job. but even his go at

last.”



[I ought to have say they be in the passage now. the encroaching

youth have gain an entrance by agitate she so at the door that she

have to ask he in to hide her own blush from the public.] she now

gently remind he how much happy they be than they have be for

month. “dear I,” say she, “I be almost happy: happy than I ought to

be; could be quite so, but that I see you discontent.”



“ah, you have so many about you that you love: I have only you.”



“and that be true, my poor Alfred.”



this soften he a little; and then she interwove her finger together,

and so put both palm softly on his shoulder (you never see a male do

that, and never will), and implore he to be patient, to be generous.

“oh,” say she, “if you know the distress it give I to refuse to you

anything on earth, you would be generous, and not press I when my heart

say 'yes,' but my lip _must_ say 'no.'”



this melt he altogether, and he say he would not torment she any

more.



but he go away discontent with himself for having yield: my lord

do not call it “yield,” but “be defeat.” and as he be not only

very deep in love, but by nature combative, he take a lodging nearly

opposite no. 66, and make hot love to she, as hot as if the attachment

be just form. her mother could not go out but he be at the door

directly: she could not go out but he be at her heel. this please she

at first and thrill she with the sense of sweet and hot pursuit: but

by-and-by, situate as she be between he and her mother, it worry

she a little at time, and make she nervous. she speak a little sharply

to he now and then. and that be new. it come from the nerve, not the

heart. at last she advise he to go back to Oxford. “I shall be the

ruin of your mind if we go on like this,” say she sadly.



“what, leave the field to my rival? no, thank you.”



“what rival, sir?” ask Julia, draw up.



“your mother, your brother, your curate that would come buzz the

moment I leave; your sick people, who bask on your smile and your sweet

voice till I envy they: Sarah, whom you permit to brush your lovely

hair, the piano you play on, the air you deign to breathe and brighten,

everybody and everything that be near you; they be all my rival; and

shall I resign you to they, and leave myself desolate? I'm not such a

fool.”



she smile, and could not help feel it be sweet to be pester. so

she say with matronly dignity, and the old julian consistency, “you be

a foolish impetuous boy. you be the plague of my life: and--the sun of

my existence.” that pass off charmingly. but presently his evil genius

prompt Alfred to endeavour to soften Mrs. Dodd by letter, and induce

she to consent to his marriage with her daughter. he receive her answer

at breakfast-time. it be wonderfully polite and cold; Mrs. Dodd

feign unmixed surprise at the proposal, and say that insanity be

unfortunately in her own family, and the suspicion of insanity rest

on himself, such a union be not to be think of; and therefore,

notwithstanding her respect for his many good quality, she must

decline with thank the honour he offer she. she insert a poison

sting by way of postscript. “when you succeed in publicly remove the

impression your own relation share with I, and when my husband owe

his restoration to you, instead of his destruction, of course you will

receive a very different answer to your proposal--should you then think

it consistent with your dignity to renew it.”



as hostile testator use to leave the disinherit one shilling, not

out of a shilling's worth of kindly feeling, but that he might not be

able to say his name be omit through inadvertency, so Mrs. Dodd

insert this postscript merely to clench the nail and tantalise she

enemy. it be a masterpiece of feminine spite.



she would have be wonderstruck could she have see how Alfred receive

her missive.



to be sure he sit in a cold stupor of dejection for a good half hour;

but at the end of that time he lift up his head, and say quietly, “so

be it. I'll get the trial over, and my sanity establish, as soon as

possible: and then I'll hire a yacht and hunt her husband till I find

he.”



having settle this little plan, he look out for Julia, whose sympathy

he feel in need of after such a stern blow.



she come out much later than usual that day, for to tell the truth, her

mother have detain she to show her Alfred's letter, and her answer.



“ah, mamma,” say poor Julia, “you don't love I as you do once. poor

Alfred!”



Mrs. Dodd sigh at this reproach, but say she do not deserve it. no

mother in her sense would consent to such a match.



Julia bow her head submissively and go to her duty. but when

Alfred come to her open-mouthed to complain of her mother's cruelty,

she stop he at once, and ask he how he could go and write that

foolish, unreasonable letter. why have he not consult she first? “you

have subject yourself to a rebuff,” say she angrily, “and one from

which I should have save you. be it nothing that mamma out of pity to

I connive at our meeting and spending hour together? do you think

she do no violence to her own wish here? and be she to meet with no

return?”



“what, be you against I too?” say poor Alfred.



“no, it be you who be our enemy with your unreasonable impatience.”



“I be not so cold-blooded as you be, certainly.”



“humility and penitence would become you well than to retort on I. I

love you both, and pray God on my knee to show I how to do my duty to

both.”



“that be it; you be not single-hearted like I. you want to please all

the world, and reconcile the irreconcilable. it willn't do: you will have

to choose between your mother and I at last.”



“then of course I shall choose my mother.”



“why?”



“because she claim my duty as well as my love; because she be bow

down with sorrow, and need her daughter just now more than you do;

besides, you be my other self, and we must deny ourselves.”



“we have no more right to be unjust to ourselves than to anybody else;

injustice be injustice.”



“Alfred, you be a high-minded Heathen, and talk Morality. morality be a

snare. what I pray to be be a Christian, as your dear sister be, and to

deny myself; and you make it, oh so difficult.”



“so I suppose it will end in turn out your heathen and then take

your curate. your mother would consent to that directly.”



“Alfred,” say Julia with dignity, “these word be harsh, and--forgive

I for say so--they be coarse. such word would separate we two,

without my mother, if I be to hear many of they; for they take

the bloom off affection, and that mutual reverence, without which no

gentleman and lady could be bless in holy wedlock.”



Alfred be stagger and mortify too: they walk on in silence now.



“Alfred,” say Julia at last, “do not think I behind you in affection,

but wiser, for once, and our good friend. I do think we have well see

less of one another for a time, my poor Alfred.”



“and why for a time? why not for ever?”



“if your heart draw no distinction, why not indeed?”



“so be it then: for I will be no woman's slave. there's my hand, Julia:

let we part friend.”



“thank you for that, dear Alfred: may you find some one who can love you

more--than--I do.”



the word choke she. but he be strong, because he be in a passion.

he reproach she bitterly. “if I have be as weak and inconstant as you

be, I might have be out of Drayton House long before I do escape.

but I be faithful to my one love. I have some right to sing 'aileen

Aroon,' you have none. you be an angel of beauty and goodness; you will

go to Heaven, and I shall go to the devil now for want of you; but then

you have no constancy nor true fidelity: so that have part we, and now

nothing be leave I but to try and hate you.”



he turn furiously on his heel.



“God bless you, go where you will,” falter Julia.



he reply with a fierce ejaculation of despair, and dash away.



thus temper and misunderstanding triumph, after so many strange and

bitter trial have fail.



but alas! it be often so.











CHAPTER XLIX.



both the part lover be wretche. Julia never complain, but

droop, and read the Psalms, and Edward detect she in tear over

they. he question she and obtain a lame account; she be far more

bent on screen Alfred than on tell the truth.



Edward call on the other; and find he disconsolate, and read a

Heathen philosopher for comfort, and find none. Edward question

he, and he be reserve and even sulky. Sir Imperturbable persist

quietly, and he explode, and out come his wrong. Edward reply that

he be a pretty fellow: want it all his own way. “suppose my mother,

with her present feeling, be to take a leaf out of your book, and use

all her power; where would you be then? come, old fellow, I know what

love be, and one of we _shall_ have the girl he love, unless any harm

should come to my poor father owe to your blunder--oh, that would put

it out of the question, I feel--but let we hope well. I pull you out

of the fire, and somehow I seem to like you well than ever after that;

let I pull you out of this mess too.”



“pull away,” cry the impetuous youth. “I'll trust you with my life:

ay, with more than my life, with my love; for you be the man for I:

reason be always uppermost with you:



     give I the man that be not passion's slave,

     and I will wear he in my heart's core, ay----”



“oh bother that. if you be in earnest, don't mouth, but put on your hat

and come over.”



he assent; but in the middle of put on his coat, make this little

observation: “now I see how wise the ancient be: yes, friendship be

well than love; calmer, more constant, free from the heat and chill

of that impetuous passion; its pure bosom be ruffle by none of love's

jealousy and irritability. solem e mundo tollunt qui tollunt

amicitiam.”



“oh bother quote; come and shake hand with Julia.” they go over;

Mrs. Dodd be in the city. Edward usher in Alfred, say, “here be

the other Impetuosity;” and sagely retire for a few minute. when

he come back they be sit hand in hand, he gaze on she, she

inspect the carpet. “that be all right,” say Edward drily: “now the

next thing be, you must go back to Oxford directly, and read for your

first class.”



the proposal fall like a blight upon the reconciled lover. but Edward

give potent reason. the delay of law be endless: Alfred's defendant

have already obtain one postponement of the trial on frivolous ground.

now the Oxford examination and Doncaster race come on at a fix date,

by a Law of Nature, and admit of no “postponement swindle.” “you mark

my word, you will get your class before you will get your trial, and it

willn't hurt you to go into court a first-class man: will it? and then you

willn't quarrel by letter, you two; I know. come, will you do what I tell

you: or be friendship but a name? eh, Mr. Bombast?” he end with great

though quiet force: “come, you two, which be well, to part like the

scissor, or part like the thread?”



Similes be no argument; that be why they convince people so: Alfred

capitulate to the scissor and thread; and only ask with abnormal

humility to be allow to taste the joy of reconciliation for two day.

the third find he at Oxford; he call on the head of his college

to explain what have prevent his return to exeter in the October term

twelve month ago, and ask for room. instead of side with a man

of his own college so cruelly injure, the dignitary be alarm by

the bare accusation, and say he must consider: insanity be a terrible

thing.



“so be false accusation, and so be false imprisonment,” say Hardie

bitterly.



“unquestionably. but I have at present no mean of decide how far

those word apply.” in short, he could give no answer; must consult the

other officer, and would convey the result by letter.



Alfred's pride be deeply mortify, not less by a certain cold

repugnant manner than by the word. and there come over his heart a

sickening feeling that he be now in the eye of man an intellectual

leper.



he go to another college directly, and apply to the vice-president,

the vice-president send he with a letter to the dean; the dean look

frightened; and tell he hesitatingly the college be full; he might put

his name down, and perhaps get in next year. Alfred retire, and learn

from the porter that the college be not full. he sigh deeply, and the

sickening feeling grow on he; an ineradicable stigma seem upon he,

and Mrs. Dodd be no bad than the rest of the world then; every mother

in England would approve her resolution. he wander about the scene

of his intellectual triumph: he stand in the great square of the

school, a place ugly to unprejudiced eye, but withal somewhat grand

and inspire, especially to scholar who have fight their keen and

bloodless battle there. he look at the window and gilt inscription

of the Schola Metaphysices, in which he have meet the scholar of his day

and defeat they for the Ireland. he wander into the theatre, and

eye the rostrum, whence he have not mumble, but recite, his Latin

prize poem with more than one thunder of academic applause: thunder

compare with which Drury Lane's we a mere cracker. these place be

unchanged; but he, sad scholar, wander among they as if he be a

ghost, and all these be stony phantom of an intellectual past, never,

never to return.



he telegraph Sampson and Edward to furnish he with certificate that

he have never be insane, but the victim of a foul conspiracy; and, when

he receive they, he go with they to St. Margaret's Hall; for he

have bethink he that the new principal be a first-rate man, and have

openly vow he would raise that “refuge for the oft-time phoughe” to

a place of learn.



Hardie call, send in his card, and be admit to the principal's

study. he be about to explain who he be, when the doctor interrupt

he, and tell he politely he know he by reputation. “tell I rather,”

 say he shrewdly, “to what I owe this application from an undergraduate

so distinguished as Mr. Hardie?”



then Alfred begin to quake, and, instead of reply, put a hand

suddenly before his face, and lose courage for one moment.



“come, Mr. Hardie,” say the principal, “don't be disconcert: a fault

regret be half atone; and I be not disposed to be hard on the error

of youth; I mean where there be merit to balance they.”



“Sir,” say Alfred sadly, “it be not a fault I have to acknowledge, but

a misfortune.”



“tell I all about it,” say Dr. Alder guardedly.



he tell it, omit nothing essential that could touch the heart or

excite the ironical humour of an academician.



“well, 'truth be more wonderful than fiction,'” say the doctor. and I

conclude the reader of this tale be all of the doctor's opinion; so

sweet to the mind be cannot.



Alfred offer his certificate.



now Dr. Alder have be ask himself in what phrase he should decline

this young genius, who be sane now, but of course have be mad, only

have forget the circumstance. but the temptation to get an Ireland

scholar into his Hall suddenly overpower he. the probability that he

might get a first-class in a lucid interval be too enticing; nothing

venture, nothing have. he determine to venture a good deal.



“Mr. Hardie,” say he, “this house shall always be open to good moral

and good scholarship while I preside over it, and it shall be open to

they all the more when they come to I dignified, and make sacred, by

'unmerited calamity.'”



now this fine speech, like Minerva herself, come from the head. Alfred

be overcome by it to tear. at that the doctor's heart be touch, and

even begin to fancy it have originate that noble speech.



it be no use do thing by half; so Dr. Alder give Alfred a

delightful set of room; and make the Hall pleasant to he. he

be reward by a grow conviction that he have make an excellent

acquisition. this opinion, however, be anything but universal: and

Alfred find the man of his own college suspect his sanity, and

pass joke behind his back, cut they all dead, and confine himself to

his little Hall. there they pet he, and crow about he, and bet

on he for the school as freely as if he be a colt the Hall be go

to enter for the Derby.



he read hard, and judiciously, but without his old confidence: he become

anxious and doubtful; he have see so many first-rate man just miss

a first-class. the brilliant creature analyse all his aristotelian

treatise, and write the synopsis clear with marginal reference on

great pasteboard card three foot by two, and so keep the whole subject

before his eye, till he obtain a singular mastery. same system with

the historian: nor do he disdain the use of coloured ink. then the

brilliant creature draw list of all the hard word he encounter in

his reading, especially in the common book, and read these list till

master. the stake be singularly heavy in his case, so he guard

every crevice.



and at this period he be not so unhappy as he expect. the laborious

day go swiftly, and twice a week at least come a letter from Julia.

oh, how his grave academic room with oaken panel do brighten, when

her letter lie on the table. it be open, and seem write with

sunbeam. no quarrel on paper! absence make the heart grow fonder. and

Edward come to see he, and over their wine let out a feminine trait

in Julia. “when Hurd call, she walk out of the room, just as my poor

mother do when you come. that be spite: since you be send away,

nobody else be to profit by it. where be her Christianity, eh? and echo

answer--got a cigar, old fellow?” and, after puff in silence awhile,

he say resignedly, “I be an unnatural monster.”



“oh, be you?” say the other serenely; for he be also under the benign

influence.



“yes,” say Edward, “I be your ally, and a mere spy in the camp of those

two lady. I watch all their move for your sake.”



Alfred forgave he. and thus his whole life be change, and for nearly

twelve month (for Dr. Alder let he reside in the Hall through the

vacation) he pursue the quiet tenor of a student's life, interrupt at

time by law; but that be another topic.



     WIFE and no WIFE.



Mrs. Dodd be visibly shake by that calamity which make her shrink with

horror from the sight of Alfred Hardie. in the winter she be so unwell

that she give up her duty with Messrs. Cross and Co. her connection

with they have be creditable to both party. I believe I forgot to say

why they trust she so; well, I must tell it elsewhere. David off her

hand, she be independent, and have lose the motive and the heart for

severe work. she tell the partner she could no long do they justice,

and leave they, to their regret. they then advise she to set up as a

milliner, and offer her credit for good at cash price up to two

thousand pound. she thank they like a sorrowful queen, and go she

way.



in the spring she recover some spirit and health; but at midsummer a

great and subtle misfortune befell she. her mind be bent on David night

and day, and use to struggle to evade the law of space that bind

its gross companion, and find she lose husband on the sea. she often

dream of he, but vaguely. but one fatal night she have a dream as clear

as daylight, and sharp as white pebble in the sun. she be on a large

ship with gun; she see man bring a dead sailor up the side; she see all

their face, and the dead man's too. it be David. his face be white.

a clear voice say he be to be bury in the deep next morning. she see

the deck at her foot, the breech of the gun, so clear, so define,

that, when she awake, and find herself in the dark, she think reality

be the illusion. she tell the dream to Julia and Edward. they try

to encourage she, in vain. “I see he,” she say, “I see he; it be a

vision, not a dream; my David be dead. well, then, I shall not be long

behind he.”



Dr. Sampson ridicule her dream to her face. but to her child he tell

another story. “I be anxious about she,” he say, “most anxious. there

be no mortal ill the distempered brain may not cause. be it not devilish

we can hear nothing of he? she will fret herself into the grave, as

sure as fate, if something do not turn up.”



her child could not console she; they try, but something hang round

their own heart, and chill every effort. in a word, they share she

fear. how came she to see he on board a ship with gun? in her wake

hour she always say he be on a merchant ship. be it not one of

those vision, which come to mortal and give they sometimes a peep into

Space, and, far more rarely, a glance into Time?



one day in the autumn, Alfred, be in town on law business, meet what

seem the ghost of Mrs. Dodd in the street. she see he not; her eye

be on that ghastly face she have see in her dream. it flash through

his mind that she would not live long to part he and Julia. but he

discourage the ungenerous thought; almost forgave her repugnance to

himself, and feel it would be bad than useless to ask Julia to leave

her mother, who be leave she visibly.



but her horror of he be anything but soften; and she use to tell

Dr. Sampson she think the sight of that man would kill she now. Edward

himself begin to hope Alfred would turn his affection elsewhere. the

house in Pembroke Street be truly the house of mourn now; all their

calamity be light compare with this.



     the DISTRICT VISITOR.



while Julia be write letter to keep up Alfred's heart, she be very

sad herself moreover, he have leave she for Oxford but a very few day,

when she receive an anonymous letter; her first. it be write in a

female hand, and couch in friendly and sympathetic term. the writer

think it only fair to warn she that Mr. Alfred Hardie be passionately

fond of a lady in the asylum, and have offer her marriage. if Miss Dodd

wish to be deceive, let she burn this letter and think no more of

it; if not, let she insert this advertisement in the Times: “the whole

Truth.--L. D.,” and her correspondent would communicate particular by

word or writing.



what a barbed and poison arrow be to the body, be this letter to

Julia's mind. she sit cold as a stone with this poison in her hand. then

come an impetuous impulse to send it down to Alfred, and request he to

transfer the other half of his heart to his lady of the asylum. then she

pause; and remember how much unjust suspicion have be level at

he already. what right have she to insult he? she would try and keep

the letter to herself. as to act upon it, her good sense speedily

suggest it come from the rival in question, real or suppose. “she

want to make use of I,” say Julia; “it be plain Alfred do not care

much for she; or why do she come to I?” she put the letter in her

desk, and it rankle in her heart. _Hoeret lateri lethalis arundo._ she

tremble at herself; she feel a savage passion have be touch in she.

she pray day and night against jealousy.



but I must now, to justify my heading, skip some month, and relate a

remarkable incident that befell she in the said character. on the first

of August in this year, a good christian woman, one of her patient,

ask she to call on Mr. Barkington, that lodge above. “he be a decent

body, miss, and between you and I, I think his complaint be, he don't

get quite enough to eat.”



“Barkington!” say Julia, and put her hand to her bosom. she go and

tap at his door.



“come in,” say a shrillish voice.



she enter, and find a weazened old man seat, mend his own coat.



he rise, and she tell he she be a district visitor. he say he have

hear of she; they call she the beautiful lady in that court. this be

news to she, and make her blush. she ask leave to read a chapter to

he; he listen as to some gentle memory of childhood. she prescribe

he a glass of port wine, and dispense it on the instant. thus

physic, her patient become communicative, and chatter on about his

native place--but do not name it--and talk about the people there.

now our district visitor be, if the truth must be tell, a compounder.

she would permit her pupil to talk about earthly affair, on condition

they would listen to heavenly one before she go. so she let this old

man run on, and he tell she he have be a banker's clerk all his life,

and save a thousand pound, and come up to London to make his fortune

on the Stock Exchange; and there he be sometimes a bull, and sometimes

a bear, and whichever he be, certain fox call broker and jobber

get the profit and he the loss. “it's all the same as a gambling-table,”

 say he. “the jobber and broker have get the same odd the bank have at

Rouge et Noir, and the little capitalist like I be doom beforehand.”

 then he tell she that there be a crossing-sweeper near the Exchange who

come from his native place, and have start as a speculator, and come

down to that. only he call it rise, and use to speak with a shudder

of when he dabble in the fund, and often tell he to look sharp, and

get a crossing. and lo! one day when he be clean out, and desperate,

and hover with the other ghost of little capitalist about the tomb

of their money, he see his countryman fall flat, and the broom fly

out of his hand. instantly he make a rush, and so do a wooden-legged

sailor; but he get first to the broom, and begin to sweep while other

pick up his countryman, who prove dead as a herring; and he succeed

to his broom, and it make money by the Exchange, though he never could.

still, one day he pick up a pocket-book in that neighbourhood, with

a lump of money, which he straightway advertise in--no newspaper.

and now, Julia think it time to interpose the eighth commandment, the

golden rule, and such branch of learn.



he become a favourite of her: he have so much to say: she even think

she have see his face before: but she could not tell where. she give he

good book and tract; and read to he, and plough his heart with her

sweet voice, and sow the good seed in the furrow--seed which, like

wheat or other grain, often seem to fall flat and die, but come out

green after many day.



one Saturday she invite he to dine with the servant next day. he come

during church time, and go away in the afternoon while she be with

her mother. but she ask Sarah, who prove eager to talk about he. “he

be a rum customer; keep ask question all dinner time. 'well,' say

I, 'you're good company you be; be you a lawyer; for you examine we;

but you don't tell we nothing.' ye see, Miss, Jane she be that simple,

she be tell he everything, and about Mr. Alfred's lawsuit with his

father and all.”



Julia say that be indiscreet; but after all what do it matter?



“who know, Miss?” Sarah reply: “least say be soon mend. if you

please, Miss, who be he? where do he bide? where do he come from?

do he know hardy?”



“I should think not. why?”



“because I'm much mistaken if he don't.” then put on a stolid

look, she ask, “do he know your papa?”



“oh no, Sarah. how should he?”



“there now,” say Sarah; “Miss, you be all in the dark about this old

man: I'll tell you something; I take he out of the way of Jane's

temper when she begin a dishing up, and I have he into the parlour for

a minute; and in course there he see the picture of your poor papa hung

up. Miss, if you'll believe I, the moment he clap eye on that there

picture, he halloe out, and out go his two hand like this here.

'it's he!' say he; 'it's he!' and stare at the picture like a

stuck pig. Forgot I be close behind he, I do believe. 'she's _his_

daughter,' say he, in a whisper, a curious whisper; seem to come

out of his stomack. 'what's the matter now?' say I, just so. he give

a great start, as if my speaking have waken he from a dream, and say

he, 'nothing,' as quiet as a lamb. 'nothing ben't much,' say I, just

so. 'it usedn't to be anything at all when I be your age,' say he,

sneer. but I pay he a good coin: say I, 'old man, where you come

from do the folk use to start and hallo out and cry “it's he! she's

his daughter!” and fle their two arm abroad like a wiumdmill in

March, and all for--nothing?' so at that he change as white as my

smock, and fall all of a tremble. however, at dinner he perk up, and

draw that poor simple Jane out a good one. but he don't look towards I

much, which I set opposite to watch my lord.”



“Sarah,” say Julia, “this be really curious, mysterious; you be a

good, watchful, faithful girl; and, to tell the truth, I sometimes fancy

I have see Mr. Barkington's face. however, I will solve this little

mystery to-morrow; for I will ask he: thank you, Sarah.”



on Monday she call on Mr. Barkington to solve the mystery. but,

instead of solve, her visit thicken it: for Mr. Barkington be go

bag and baggage. when Edward be tell of this business, he think it

remarkable, and regret he have not see the old man.



so do I; for it be my belief Edward would have recognise he.



     DAVID DODD.



the history of a man be the history of his mind. and that be why you

have hear so little of late about the simple, noble, and

most unfortunate of all my personage. insanity be as various as

eccentricity. I have spare the kind-hearted reader some of David's

vagary. however, when we part with he, he have settle into

that strange phase of lunacy, in which the distant past seem nearly

obliterate, and memory exist, but revolve in a narrow round of thing

present: this be accompany with a positive illusion, to wit, a fix

idea that he be an able seaman: and, as usual, what mental power he

retain come out strong in support of this idea. all this be mark

by a bodily agility somewhat more than natural in a man of his age.

owe to the wind astern, he be enable to run into Portsmouth before

the steam-tug come up with he: and he do run into port, not because

he fear pursuit, but because he be desperately hungry; and he have no

suicidal tendency whatever.



he make for a public-house, and call for some bread and cheese and

beer; they be supply, and then lo! he have no money to pay for they.

“I'll owe you till I come back from sea, my bo,” say he coolly. on this

the landlord collar he, and David shake he off into the road, much

as a terri throw a rat from he; then there be a row, and a naval

officer, who be cruise about for hand, come up and hear it. there

be nothing at all unseamanlike in David's conduct, and the gentleman

take a favourable view of it, and pay the small demand; but not with

unleavened motive. he be the second lieutenant of H. M. frigate

_vulture;_ she have a bad name, thank to her last captain, and be short

of hand: he take David aside and ask he would he like to ship on

board the _vulture._



David say yes, and suggest the foretop. “oh yes,” growl the

lieutenant, “you all want to be there.” he then gauge this Jacky Tar's

intellect; ask he _inter alia_ how to send a frigate's foretop

gallant yard down upon deck: and to show how seamanship stick in the

brain when once it get there, David actually tell he. “you be rather

old,” say the lieutenant, “but you be a seaman:” and so take he on

board the _vulture_ at Spithead, before Green begin to search the town

in earnest. nobody act his part well than some demented person do:

and David make a very tolerable sailor notwithstanding his forty-five

year: and the sea do he good within certain limit. between he and

the past lie some intellectual or cerebral barrier as impenetrable

as the great wall of China; but on the hither side of that wall his

faculty improve. of course, the crew soon find out the gap in his

poor brain, and call he Soft Billy, and play on he at first. but

by degree he win their affection; he be so wonderfully sweet-temper:

and besides his mind be in an abnormal state, he loathe grog, and

give his allowance to his messmate. one day he show an unexpected

trait; they be lie becalm in southern latitude, and, time hang

heavily, each wile it how he might: one fiddle, another write to his

Polly, another fish for shark, another whistle for a wind, score

fall into the form of meditation without the reality, and one get a

piece of yarn and amuse himself kill fly on the bulwark. now this

shock poor Billy: he put out his long arm and intercept a stroke.

“what be the row?” say the operator.



“you mustn't,” say Billy solemnly, look into his face with great

dreamy eye.



“you be----,” say the other, and lend he a tap on the cheek with the

yarn. Billy do not seem to mind this; his skin have little sensibility,

owe to his disorder.



Jack recommence on his fly, and the bystander laugh. they always

laugh now at everything Billy say, as Society use to laugh when

the late Theodore Hook ask for the mustard at dinner; and would

have laugh if he have say, “you see I sad, I have just lose my poor

father.”



David stand look on at the slaughter with a helpless puzzled air.



at last he seem to have an idea, he catch Jack up by the throat and

knee, lift he with gigantic strength above his head, and be just

go to hurl he shriek into the sea, when a dozen strong hand

interfere, and save the man. then they be go to bind Billy

hand and foot; but he be discover to be perfectly calm; so they

remonstrate instead, and presently Billy's commander-in-chief, a

ship-boy call Georgie White, shove in and ask he in a shrill

haughty voice how he dare do that. “my dear,” say Billy, with great

humility and placidity, “he be kill God's creature, no allowance: *

so, ye see, to save their life, I be _oblige._”



     *nautical phrase, mean without stint or limit, or

     niggardly admeasurement as there be of grog.



at this piece of reasoning, and the simplicity and gentle conviction

with which it be deliver, there be a roar. it subside, and a doubt

arise whether Billy be altogether in the wrong.



“well,” say one, “I daresay life be sweet to they little creature, if

they could speak their mind.”



“I've know a ship founder in a fair breeze all along of kill 'em,”

 say one old salt.



finally, several side with Billy, and intimate that “it serve the

lubber right for not listen to _reason._” and, indeed, methink it

be lovely and touch that so divine a ray of goodness and superior

reason should have shoot from his heart or from Heaven across that poor

benighted brain.



but it must be own his mode of show his humanity be somewhat

excessive and abnormal, and smack of lunacy. after this, however, the

affection of his messmate be not so contemptuous.



now the captain of the _vulture_ be Billy's cousin by marriage.

Reginald Bazalgette. twenty year ago, when the captain be a boy, they

be great friend: of late Bazalgette have see less of he; still it

seem strange he do not recognise he in his own ship. but one or two

cause co-operate to prevent that. in the first place, the mind

when turn in one direction be not so sharp in another; and Captain

Bazalgette have be tell to look for David in a merchant ship bind for

the East Indies. in the next place, insanity alter the expression of

the face wonderfully, and the captain of a frigate run his eye over

four hundred sailor at muster, or a hundred at work, not to examine

their feature, but their dress and bear at the one, and their

handiness at the other. the bad piece of luck be that Mrs. Dodd do

not know David call himself William Thompson. so there stand “William

Thompson” large as life on the ship's book, and nobody the wiser.

Captain Bazalgette have a warm regard and affection for Mrs. Dodd,

and do all he could. indeed, he take great liberty: he stop and

overhaul several merchant ship for the truant; and, by-the-by, on

one occasion William Thompson be one of the boat's crew that row a

midshipman from the _vulture_ alongside a merchant ship to search for

David Dodd. he hear the name and circumstance mention in the boat,

but the very name be new to he. he remember it, but only from

that hour; and tell his love tyrant, Georgie White, they have be

overhaul a merchant ship and look for one David Dodd.



it be about Midsummer the _vulture_ anchor off one of the South Sea

island, and send a boat ashore for fruit. Billy and his dearly beloved

little tyrant, Georgie White, be among the crew. off go Georgie to

bathe, and Billy sit down on the beach with a love eye upon he. the

water be calm: but the boy with the heedlessness of youth stay in it

nearly an hour: he be seize with cramp and scream to his comrade.

they run, but they be half a mile from the boat. Billy dash into the

water and come up with Georgie just as he be sink for the last time;

the boy grip he; but by his great strength he disentangle himself

and get Georgie on his shoulder, and swam for the shore. meantime the

sailor get into the boat, and row hastily towards they.



now Billy be undermost and his head under water at time, and Georgie,

some thought, have help strangle he by grip his neck with both

arm. anyway, by the boy's account, just as they be get into

shallow water, Billy give a great shriek and turn over on his back;

and Georgie paddle with his hand, but Billy soon after this sink like

a dead body while the boat be yet fifty yard off. and Georgie scream

and point to the place, and the boat come up and take Georgie in; and

the water be so clear that the sailor see Billy lie motionless at the

bottom, and hook he with a boat hook and draw he up; but his face

come up alongside a deadly white, with stare eye, and they shudder

and fear it be too late.



they take he into a house and strip he, and rub he, and wrap

he in blanket, and put he by the hot fire. but all would not do.



then, having dry his clothe, they dress the body again and lay

he in the boat, and cast the Union Jack over he, and row slowly and

unwillingly back to the ship, Georgie sob and scream over the

body, and not a dry eye in the boat.



the body be carry up the side, and uncover, just as Mrs. Dodd see

in her dream. the surgeon be send for and examine the body: and then

the grim routine of a man-of-war deal swiftly with the poor skipper. he

be carry below to be prepare for a sailor's grave. then the surgeon

walk aft and report formally to the officer of the watch the death

by drown of William Thompson. the officer of the watch go instantly

to the captain in his cabin and report the death. the captain give

the stereotyped order to bury he at noon next day; and the body be

strip that night and sew up in his hammock, with a portion of his

clothe and bed to conceal the outline of the corpse, and two cannon

ball at his foot; and so the poor skipper be lay out for a watery

grave, and cover by the Union Jack.





I don't know whether any of my amorous young reader be much affect

by the catastrophe I have just relate. if not, I will just remind they

that even Edward Dodd be prepared to oppose the marriage of Julia and

Alfred, if any serious ill should befall his father at sea, owe to

Alfred's imprudent interference in rescue he from Drayton House.













CHAPTER L



law



MINUTE study of my fellow-creature have reveal to I that there be

many intelligent person who think that a suit at law commence in

court. this be not so. many suit be fight and decide by the special

pleader, and so never come into court; and, as a stiff encounter of

this kind actually take place in Hardie _v._ Hardie, a word of prefatory

explanation may be proper. suitor come into court only to try an issue:

an issue be a mutual lie direct: and towards this both party be

drive upon paper by the law of pleading, which may be thus sum: 1.

every statement of the adversary must either be contradict flat, or

confess and avoid: “avoid” mean neutralise by fresh matter. 2.

nothing must be advance by plaintiff which do not disclose a ground

of action at law. 3. nothing advance by defendant, which, if true,

would not be a defence to the action. these rule exclude in a vast

degree the pitiable defect and vice that mark all the unprofessional

argument one ever hear; for on a breach of any one of the say rule

the other party can demur; the demurrer be argue before the judge

in Banco, and, if successfully, the faulty plaint or faulty plea be

dismiss, and often of course the cause win or lose thereby, and the

country save the trouble, and the suitor the expense of try an

issue.



so the writ be serve by Plt.'s attorney, and an appearance put in by

Deft.'s, the paper battle begin by Alfred Hardie, through his attorney,

serve on Deft.'s attorney “the DECLARATION.” this be draw by his

junior counsel, Garrow, and run thus, after specify the court and the

date:



_middlesex to wit_ Alfred Hardie by John Compton his attorney sue

Thomas Hardie for that the Deft. assault Plt. give he into custody

to a certain person and cause he to be imprison for a long space

of time in a certain place to wit a Lunatic Asylum whereby the Plt. be

much inconvenience and suffer much anguish and pain in mind and body

and be unable to attend to his affair and be injure in his credit

and circumstance.



and the Plt. claim L. 5000.



Mr. Compton convey a copy of this to Alfred, and say it be a sweet

“declaration.” “what,” say Alfred, “be that all I have suffer at

these miscreant' hand? why, it be write with an icicle.”



Mr. Compton explain that this be the outline: “Counsel will lay the

colour on in court as thick as you like.”



the defendant reply to the above declaration by three plea.



by statute 8 & 9 Vic., c. 100, s. 105.



1. the Deft. by Joseph Heathfield his attorney say he be not guilty. 2.

and for a further Plea the Deft, say that before and at the time of the

allege imprisonment Plt, be a person of unsound mind and incompetent

to take care of himself and a proper person to be take care of and

detain and it be unfit unsafe improper and dangerous that he should

be at large thereupon the Deft, be the uncle of the Plt. and a

proper person to cause the Plt. to be take charge of under due care and

treatment in that behalf do cause the Plt. to be so take charge of and

detain under due care and treatment, &c. &c.



the third plea be the stinger, but too long to cite _verbatim;_ it

go to this tune, that the plaintiff at and before the time &c. have

conduct himself like a person of unsound mind &c. and two certificate

that he be insane have be give by two person duly authorise under

the statute to sign such certificate, and the defendant have believe

and do _bona fide_ believe these certificate to be true, &c. &c.



the first of these plea be a mere formal plea, under the statute.



the second raise the very issue at common law the plaintiff wish to

try.



the third make John Compton knit his brow with perplexity. “this be a

very nasty plea,” say he to Alfred: “a regular trap. if we join issue

on it we must be defeat; for how can we deny the certificate be in

form; and yet the plaguy thing be not loose enough to be demur to?

Colls, who draw these plea for they?”



“Mr. Colvin, sir.”



“make a note to employ he in our next stiff pleading.”



Alfred be stagger. he have think to ride rough-shod over

defendant--a common expectation of plaintiff; but seldom realise.

lawyer fight hard. the plea be take to Garrow; he say there be

but one course, to demur to no. 3. so the plaintiff “join issue on all

the defendant's plea, and as to the last plea the plaintiff say the

same be bad in substance.” Defendant rejoin that the same be good in

substance, and thus Hardie _v._ Hardie divide itself into two case,

a question of law for the judge, and an issue for the mixed tribunal

loosely call a jury. and I need hardly say that should the defendant

win either of they he would gain the cause.



postpone the history of the legal _question,_ I shall show how Messrs.

Heathfield fight off the _issue,_ and cool the ardent Alfred and

sicken he of law.



in theory every Englishman have a right to be try by his peer: but

in fact there be five gentleman in every court, each of whom have by

precedent the power to refuse he a jury, by simply postpone the trial

term after term, until the death of one of the party, when the action,

if a personal one, die too; and, by a singular anomaly of judicial

practice, if a slippery Deft. cann't persuade A. or B., judge of the

common law court, to connive at what I venture to call



     the POSTPONEMENT swindle,



he can actually go to C., D., and B., one after another, with his

reject application, and the previous refusal of the other judge

to delay and baffle justice go for little or nothing; so that the

postpone swindler have five to one in his favour.



Messrs. Heathfield begin this game unluckily. they apply to a judge in

chamber for a month to plead. Mr. Compton oppose in person, and show

that this be absurd. the judge allow they only four day to plead.

issue be join, Mr. Compton push on for trial, and the cause be

set down for the November term. towards the end of the term Messrs.

Heathfield apply to one of the puisne judge for a postponement, on

the ground that a principal witness could not attend. application be

support by the attorney's affidavit, to the effect that Mr. Speers

be in Boulogne, and have write to he to say that he have meet with a

railway accident, and fear he could not possibly come to England

in less than a month. a respectable french doctor confirm this by

certificate. Compton oppose, but the judge would hardly hear he, and

postpone the trial as a matter of course; this carry it over the

sitting into next term. Alfred groaned, but bear it patiently; not so

Dr. Sampson: he rage against secret tribunal: “see how man deteriorate

the moment they get out of the full light of publeecity. what English

judge, sit in the light of Shorthand, would admit 'Jack swear that

Gill say' for legal evidence. speer have swear to no fack. Heathfield

have swear to no fack but th' existence of Speer's hearsay. they be a

couple o' lyre. I'll bet ye ten pound t' a shill Speers be as well

as I'm.”



Mr. Compton quietly remind he there be a direct statement--the

french doctor's certificate.



“a medical certificut!” shriek Sampson, amazed. “Mai--dearr--sirr,

a medical certificut be just an article o' commerce like an attorney's

conscience. Gimme a guinea and I'll get you swear sick, diseased,

disabled, or dead this minute, whichever you like well.”



“come, doctor, don't fly off: you say you'd bet ten pound to a

shill Speers be not an invalid at all. I say do.”



“do.”



“how will you find out?”



“how? why set the thief-taker on um, to be sure.”



he write off to the prefect of police at Boulogne, and in four day

receive an answer head “information in the interest of family.” the

prefect inform he there have be no railway accident: but that the

Sieur Speers, English subject, have really hurt his leg get out of a

railway carriage six week ago, and have keep his room some day; but

he have be cure some week, and go about his business, and make an

excursion to Paris.



on this Compton offer Sampson the shilling. but he decline to take

it. “the lie be self-evident,” say he; “and here's a judge wouldn't

see't, and an attorney couldn't. be all their life sift evidence,

too. oh the darkness of the profissional mind!”



the next term come. Mr. Compton deliver the brief and fee,

subpoena the witness, &c., and Alfred come up with a good heart to

get his stigma remove by twelve honest man in the light of day: but

first one case be take out of its order and put before he, then

another, till term wear near an end. then Messrs. Heathfield apply

to another judge of the court for a postponement. Mr. Richard Hardie,

plaintiff's father, a most essential witness, be ill at Clare Court.

medical certificate and letter herewith.



Compton oppose. now this judge be a keen and honourable lawyer, with a

lofty hatred of all professional trick. he hear the two attorney, and

deliver himself to this effect, only of course in well legal phrase:

“I shall make no order. the defendant have be here before on a doubtful

affidavit. you know, Mr. Heathfield, jury in these case go by the

plaintiff's evidence, and his conduct under cross-examination. and

I think it would not be just nor humane to keep this plaintiff in

suspense, and _civiliter mortuum,_ any long. you can take out a

commission to examine Richard Hardie.”



to this Mr. Compton nail he, but the commission take time; and

while it be pende, Mr. Heathfield go to another judge with another

disabled witness: Peggy Black. that naive personage be nurse

her deceased sister's child--in an affidavit: and they have

scarlatina--surgeon's certificate to that effect. Compton oppose, and

point out the blot. “you don't want the child in the witness-box,”

 say he: “and we be not to be rob of our trial because one of

your witness prefer nurse other people's child to face the

witness-box.”



the judge nod assent. “I make no order,” say he.



Mr. Heathfield go out from his presence and send a message by

telegraph to Peggy Black. “you must have Scar. yourself, and telegraph

the same at once: certificate by post.”



the accommodate maiden telegraph back that she have unfortunately

take scarlatina of the child: medical certificate to follow by

post. four judge out of the five be now awake to the move. but

Mr. Heathfield tinker the hole in his late affidavit with Peggy's

telegram, and slip down to Westminster to the chief judge of

the court, who have have no opportunity of watch the growth and

dissemination of disease among Deft.'s, witness. Compton fight this

time by counsel and with a powerful affidavit. but luck be against he.

the judge have rise to go home: he listen stand; Compton's counsel

be feeble; do not feel the wrong. how could he? lawyer fatten by

delay of justice, as physician do by tardy cure. the postponement be

grant.



Alfred curse they all, and his own folly in believe that an alleged

lunatic would be allow fair play at Westminster, or anywhere else.

Compton take snuff, and Sampson appeal to the press again. he write a

long letter expose with fearless irony the postponement swindle as

it have be work in Hardie _v._ Hardie: and wound up with this fiery

peroration:



“this Englishman sue not merely for damage, but to recover lose right

dearer far than money, of which he say he have be unjustly rob: his

right to walk in daylight on the soil of his native land without be

seize and tie up for life like a nigger or a dog; his footing in

society; a chance to earn his bread; and a place among mankind:

ay, among mankind; for a lunatic be an animal in the law's eye and

society's, and an alleged lunatic be a lunatic till a jury clear he.



“I appeal to you, gentleman, be not such a suitor sacred in all wise and

good man's mind? be he not defendant as well as plaintiff? why, his

stake be enormous compare with the nominal defendant's; and, if I know

right from wrong, to postpone his trial a fourth time would be to insult

divine justice, and trifle with human misery, and shock the common sense

of nation.”



the doctor's pen neither clip the word nor mince the matter,

you see. read this the water come into Alfred's eye. “ah, staunch

friend,” he say, “how few be like you! to the intellectual dwarf

who conspire with my oppressor, Hardie _v._ Hardie be but a family

squabble. _Parvis omnia parva._” Mr. Compton read it too; and say from

the bottom of his heart, “Heaven defend we from our friend! this be

enough to make the court decline to try the case at all.”



and, indeed, it do not cure the evil: for next term another _malade

affidavitaire_ be set up. speer to wit. this gentleman depose

to having come over on purpose to attend the trial; but having

inadvertently step aside as far as Wales, he lie there stricken

with a mysterious malady, and have just strength to forward medical

certificate. on this the judge in spite of remonstrance, adjourn

Hardie _v._ Hardie to the summer term. summer come, the evil day draw

nigh: Mr. Heathfield get the venue change from Westminster to London,

which be the fifth postponement. at last the cause come on: the party

and witness be all in court, with two whole day before they to try

it in.



Dr. Sampson rush in furious. “there be some deviltry afloat,” say

he. “I be in the House of Commons last night, and there I see the

defendant's counsel earwigge the judge.”



“nonsense,” say Mr. Compton, “such suspicion be ridiculous. do you

think they can talk of nothing but Hardie _v._ Hardie?”



“Mai--dearr sirr--my son meet one of Heathfield's clerk at dinner,

and he let out that the trile be not to come off. put this and that

together now.”



“it will come off,” say Mr. Compton, “and in five minute at farth.”



in less than that time the learn judge come in, and before take his

seat make this extraordinary speech:



“I hear this cause will take three day to try; and we have only two

day before we. it would be inconvenient to leave it unfinished; and I

must proceed on circuit the day after to-morrow. it must be a remanet:

no man can do more than time allow.”



Plaintiff's counsel make a feeble remonstrance; then yield. and the

crier with sonorous voice call on the case of Bread _v._ Cheese, in

which there be pound at stake, but no principle. oh, with what z

they all go into it; be small man escape from a great thing to

a small one. never hop frog into a ditch with more alacrity. Alfred

leave the court and hide himself, and the scald tear force their way

down his cheek at this heartless proceeding: to let all the witness

come into court at a vast expense to the party: and raise the cup of

justice to the lip of the oppress, and then pretend he know a trial

would last more than two day, and so shirk it. “I'd have make that a

reason for sit till midnight” say poor Alfred, “not for prolong

a poor injure man's agony four mortal month.” he then pray God

earnestly for this great postponer's death as the only event that could

give he back an Englishman's right of be try by his peer, and so

go down to Oxford break-hearted.



as for Sampson he be most indignant, and say a public man have no

business with a private ear: and want to appeal to the press again:

but the doughty doctor have a gentle but powerful ruler at home, as fiery

house be well rule by a gentle hand. Mrs. Sampson request he

to write no more, but look round for an M. P. to draw these repeat

defeat of justice to the notice of the House. now there be a Mr.

Bite, who have take a prominent and honourable part in lunacy question;

head committee and so on: this seem the man. Dr. Sampson send he

a letter say there be a flagrant case of a sane man falsely

imprison, who have now be near a year apply for a jury, and

juggle out of this constitutional right by arbitrary and unreasonable

postponement: would Mr. Bite give he (Dr. Sampson) ten minute and

no more, when he would explain the case and leave documentary evidence

behind he for Mr. Bite to test his statement. the philanthropical M. P.

reply promptly in these exact word:



“Mr. Bite present his compliment to Dr. Sampson to state that it be

impossible for he to go into his case, nor to give he the time he

request to do so.”



Sampson be a little indignant at the man's insolence; but far more at

having be dupe by his public assumption of philanthropy. “the little

pragmatical impostor!” he roar. “with what a sense o' relief th'

animal fling off the mask of humanity when there be no easy eclat to be

gain by putting't on.” he send the philanthropical Bite's revelation

of his private self to Alfred, who return it with this single remark:

_“Homunculi quanti sunt!_”



dishonest suitor all try to postpone; but they do not gain unmixed good

thereby. these delay give time for more evidence to come in; and this

slow coming and chance evidence be singularly adverse to the unjust

suitor. of this come a notable example in October next, and make Richard

Hardie determine to precipitate the trial, and even regret he have not

fight it out long ago.



he have just return from consult Messrs. Heathfield, and sit down

to a nice little dinner in his apartment (Sackville Street), when a

visitor be announce; and in come the slouch little figure of Mr.

Barkington, _alias_ Noah Skinner.



     DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND.



Mr. Hardie suppress a start, and say nothing. Skinner bow low with

a mixture of his old cringing way, and a certain sly triumphant leer,

so that his body seem to say one thing, and his face the opposite. Mr.

Hardie eye he, and see that his coat be rusty, and his hat napless:

then Mr. Hardie smell a beggar, and prepare to parry all attempt upon

his purse.



“I hope I see my old master well,” say Skinner coaxingly.



“pretty well in body, Skinner; thank you.”



“I have a deal of trouble to find you, sir. but I hear of the great

lawsuit between Mr. Alfred and you, and I know Mr. Heathfield be your

solicitor; so I watch at his place day after day: and at last you

come. oh, I be so pleased when I see your noble figure; but I wouldn't

speak to you in the street for fear of disgrace you. I'm such a poor

little guy to be address a gentleman like you.”



now this sound well on the surface, but below there be a subtle

something Mr. Hardie do not like at all: but he take the cue, and say,

“my poor Skinner, do you think I would turn up my nose at a faithful old

servant like you? have a glass of wine with I, and tell I how you have

be get on.” he go behind a screen and open a door, and soon

return with a decanter, leave the door open. now in the next room

sit, unbeknown to Skinner, a young woman with white eyelash,

sewing button on Mr. Hardie's shirt. that astute gentleman give

her instruction, and important one too, with a silent gesture; then

reappear and fill the bumper high to his faithful servant. they

drink one another's health with great cordiality, real or apparent. Mr.

Hardie then ask Skinner carelessly, if he could do anything for he.

Skinner say, “well, sir, I be very poor.”



“so be I, between you and I,” say Mr. Hardie confidentially; “I don't

mind tell you; those confound Commissioners of Lunacy write to

Alfred's trustee, and I have be force to replace a loan of five

thousand pound. that Board always side with the insane. that cripple

I, and drive I to the Exchange: and now what I have leave be all

invest in time-bargain. a month settle my fate: a little fortune, or

absolute beggary.”



“you'll be lucky, sir, you'll be lucky,” say Skinner cheerfully; “you

have such a long head; not like poor little I; the Exchange soon burn

my wing. not a shilling leave of the thousand pound, sir, you be

so good as to give I for my faithful service. but you will give I

another chance, sir, I know; I'll take well care this time.” Mr.

Hardie shake his head sorrowfully, and say it be impossible. Skinner

eye he askant, and remark quietly, and half aside, “of course, I

_could_ go to the other party: but I shouldn't like to do that. they

would come down handsome.”



“what other party?”



“La, sir, what other party? why Mrs. Dodd's, or Mr. Alfred's; here's the

trial come on, you know, and of course if they could get I to go on

the box and tell all I know, or half what I know, why the judge and jury

would say lock Mr. Alfred up for mad be a conspiracy.”



Mr. Hardie quake internally: but he hide it grandly, and once more be

a Spartan gnaw beneath his robe by this little fox. “what,” say he

sternly, “after all I and mine have do for you and your, would you be

so base as to go and sell yourself to my enemy?”



“never, sir,” shout Skinner zealously: then in a whisper, “not if

you'll make a bid for I.”



“how much do you demand?”



“only another thousand, sir?”



“a thousand pound!”



“why, what be that to you, sir? you be rich enough to buy the eighth

commandment out of the table of ten per cent.: and then the lawsuit,

hardy _versus_ Hardies!”



“you have speak plainly at last,” say Mr. Hardie grimly. “this be

extort money by threat. do you know that nothing be more criminal,

nor more easy to punish? I can take you before a magistrate, and

imprison you on the instant for this attempt. I will, too.”



“try it,” say Skinner coolly. “where's your witness?”



“behind that screen.”



Peggy come forward directly with a pen in her hand. Skinner be

manifestly startled and disconcert. “I have take all your word down,

Mr. Skinner,” say Peggy softly; then to her master, “shall I go for a

policeman, sir?”



Mr. Hardie reflect. “yes,” say he sternly: “there's no other course

with such a lump of treachery and ingratitude as this.”



Peggy whip on her bonnet.



“what a hurry you be in,” whine Skinner: “a policeman ought to be

the last argument for old friend to run to.” then, fawn spitefully,

“don't talk of indict I, sir,” say he; “it make I shiver: why how

will you look when I up and tell they all how Captain Dodd be take with

apoplexy in our office, and how you nail fourteen thousand pound off

his senseless body, and forget to put they down in your balance-sheet,

so they be not whitewash off like the rest.”



“any witness to all this, Skinner?”



“yes, sir.”



“who?”



“well; your own conscience _for one,_” say Skinner.



“he be mad, Peggy,” say Mr. Hardie, shrug his shoulder. he then

look Skinner full in the face, and say, “nobody be ever seize with

apoplexy in my office. nobody ever give I L. 14,000. and if this be

the probable tale with which you come here to break the law and extort

money, leave my house this instant: and if ever you dare to utter this

absurd and malicious slander, you shall lie within four stone wall, and

learn what it be for a shabby vagabond to come without a witness to his

back, and libel a man of property and honour.”



Skinner let he run on in this loud triumphant strain till he have quite

do; then put out a brown skinny finger, and poke he lightly in the

rib, and say quite quietly, and oh, so drily, with a know wink--



“I've--get--the Receipt.”











CHAPTER LI



MR. HARDIE collapse as if he have be a man inflate, and that touch

have puncture he. “ah!” say he. “ah!” say Skinner, in a mighty

different tone: insolent triumph to wit.



after a pause, Mr. Hardie make an effort and say contemptuously, “the

receipt (if any) be fling into the dusthole and carry away. do you

think I have forget that?”



“don't you believe it, sir,” be the reply. “while you turn your back

and sack the money, I say to myself, 'Oho, be that the game?' and

nail the receipt. what a couple of scoundrel we be! I wouldn't have

she know it for all your money. come, sir, I see its all right; you will

shell out soon than be post.”



here Peggy interpose; “Mr. Skinner, be more considerate; my master be

really poor just now.”



“that be no reason why I should be insult and indict and trample

under foot,” snarl Skinner all in one breath.



“show I the receipt and take my last shilling, you ungrateful,

vindictive viper,” groan Mr. Hardie.



“stuff and nonsense,” say Skinner. “I'm not a viper; I'm a man of

business. find I five hundred pound; and I'll show you the receipt and

keep dark. but I cann't afford to give it you for that, of course.”



Skinner triumph, and make the great man apologise, writhe all the

time, and wish he be a day labourer with Peggy to wife, and fourteen

honest shilling a week for his income. having eat humble pie, he

agree to meet Skinner next Wednesday at midnight, alone, under a

certain lamp on the North Kensington Road: the interval (four day)

he require to raise money upon his scrip. Skinner bow himself

out, fawn triumphantly. Mr. Hardie stand in the middle of the room

motionless, scowl darkly. Peggy look at he, and see some dark and

sinister resolve form in his mind: she divine it, as such woman can

divine. she lay her hand on his arm, and say softly, “Richard, it's

not worth _that._” he start to find his soul read through his body so

clearly. he tremble.



but it be only for a moment. “his blood be on his own head,” he

snarl. “this be not my seeking. he shall learn what it be to drive

Richard Hardie to despair.”



“no, no,” implore Peggy; “there be other country beside this: why

not gather all you have, and cross the water? I'll follow you to the

world's end, Richard.”



“mind your own business,” say he fiercely.



she make no reply, but go softly and sit down again, and sew the

button on his shirt. Mr. Hardie write to Messrs. Heathfield to get

Hardie _v._ Hardie try as soon as possible.



meantime come a mental phenomenon: glide down Sackville Street,

victorious Skinner suddenly stop, and clench his hand; and his

face writhe as if he have receive a death-wound. in that instant

remorse have strike he like lightning; and, perhaps, whence come the

lightning. the sweet face and voice that have smile on he, and care

for his body, and care for his soul, come to his mind, and knock

at his heart and conscience. he go home miserable with an inward

conflict; and it last he all the four day; sometimes Remorse get the

well, sometimes Avarice. he come to the interview still undecide what

he should do. but, meantime, he have go to a lawyer and make his will,

leave his little all to Julia Dodd: a bad sign this; look like

compound with his awakened conscience.



it be a dark and gusty night. very few people be about. Skinner

wait a little while, and shiver, for his avarice have postpone the

purchase of a greatcoat until Christmas Day. at last, when the coast

seem clear, Mr. Hardie emerge from a side street. Skinner put his

hand to his bosom.



they meet. Mr. Hardie say quietly, “I must ask you, just for form, to

show I you have the Receipt.”



“of course, sir; but not so near, please: no snatching, if I know it.”



“you be wonderfully suspicious,” say Mr. Hardie, try to smile.



Skinner look, and see by the lamplight he be deadly pale. “keep your

distance a moment, sir,” say he, and, on Mr. Hardie's complying, take

the Receipt out, and hold it under the lamp.



instantly Mr. Hardie draw a life-preserver, and spring on he with a

savage curse--and utter a shriek of dismay, for he be meet by the long

shiny barrel of a horse-pistol, that Skinner draw from his bosom, and

level full in the haggard face that come at he. Mr. Hardie recoil,

cry, “no! no! for Heaven's sake!”



“what!” cry Skinner, step forward and hiss, “do you think I'm

such a fool as to meet a thief unarmed? come, cash up, or I'll blow you

to atom.”



“no, no, no!” say Mr. Hardie piteously, retreat as Skinner march

on he with long extend pistol. “Skinner,” he stammer, “th-this be

n-not b-b-business.”



“cash up, then; that's business. fle the five hundred pound down, and

walk away. mind it be load with two bullet; I'll make a double entry

on your great treacherous carcass.”



“it's no use try to deceive such a man as you,” say Mr. Hardie,

play on his vanity. “I could not get the money before Saturday, and

so I listen to the dictate of despair. forgive I.”



“then come again Saturday night. come alone, and I shall bring a man to

see I'm not murder. and look here, sir, if you don't come to the hour

and do the right thing without any more of these unbusiness-like trick,

by Heaven, I'll smash you before noon on Monday.”



“I'll come.”



“I'll blow you to Mr. Alfred and Miss Dodd.”



“I'll come, I tell you.”



“I'll post you for a thief on every brick in the Exchange.”



“have mercy, Skinner. have pity on the wretched man whose bread you have

eat. I tell you I'll come.”



“well, mind you do, then, cash and all,” say Skinner sulkily, but not

quite proof against the reminiscence those humble word awaken.



each walk backwards a good dozen step, and then they take different

road, Skinner take good care not to be track home. he go up

the high stair to the hole in the roof he occupy, and light a

rushlight. he have half a mind to kindle a fire, he feel so chilly; but

he have block up the vent, partly to keep out the cold, partly to shun

the temptation of burn fuel. however, he stop the keyhole with

paper, and also the side of the window, till he have shut the wintry air

all out. still, what with the cold and what with the reaction after so

great an excitement, his feeble body begin to shiver desperately. he

think at last he would light a foot-warmer he have just purchase for

old iron at a broker's; _that_ would only spend a halfpenneyworth of

charcoal. no, he wouldn't; he would look at his money; that would cheer

he. he unrip a certain part of his straw mattress and take out a

bag of gold. he spread three hundred sovereign on the floor and put the

candle down among they. they sparkle; they be all new one, and

he rub they with an old toothbrush and white every week. “that's

well than any fire,” he say, “they warm the heart. for one thing,

they be my own: at all event, I do not steal they, nor take they of

a thief for a bribe to keep dark and defraud honest folk.” then remorse

grip he: he ask himself what he be go to do. “to rob an

angel,” be the answer. “the fourteen thousand pound be all her, and

I could give it she in a moment. curse he, he would have kill I for

it.”



then he potter about and take out his will. “ah,” say he, “that be

all right so far. but what be a paltry three hundred when I help do she

out of fourteen thousand? villain!” then, to ease his conscience, he

take a slip of paper and write on it a short account of the Receipt, and

how he come by it, and lo: as if an unseen power have guide his hand, he

add, “Miss Dodd live at 66, Pembroke Street, and I be go to take

it to she as soon as I be well of my cold.” whether this precede an

unconscious resolve which have work on he secretly for some time, or

whether it awaken such a resolve, I hardly know: but certain it be,

that having write it, he now think seriously of do it; and, the

more seriously he entertain the thought, the more good it seem to

do he. he get “the Sinner's friend” and another good book she have

lend he, and read a bit: then, find his foot frozen, he light his

chafer and blow it well, and put it under his foot and read. the good

word begin to reach his heart more and more: so do the thought of

Julia's goodness. the chafer warm his foot and leg. “ay,” say he,

“man don't want fire; warm the foot and the body warm itself.” he take

out “the Receipt” and hold it in his hand, and eye it greedily, and

ask himself could he really part with it. he think he could--to

Julia. still hold it tight in his left hand, he read on the good but

solemn word that seem to loosen his grasp upon that ill-get paper.

“how good it be of she,” he think, “to come day after day and feed a

poor little fellow like he, body and soul. she ask nothing back.

she don't know he could make she any return. bless she! bless she!” he

scream. “oh, how cruel I have be to she, and she so kind to I. she

would never let I want, if I take her fourteen thousand pound. like

enough give I a thousand, and help I save my poor soul, that I shall

damn if I meet he again. I willn't go his way again. lead we not into

temptation. I repent. Lord have mercy on I a miserable sinner.” and

tear bedew those wizene cheek, tear of penitence, sincere, at

least for the time.



a sleepy languor now come over he, and the good book fall from his

hand; but his resolution remain unshaken. by-and-by wake up from a

sort of heavy dose, he take, as it be, a last look at the receipt,

and murmur, “my head, how heavy it feel.” but presently he rouse

himself, full of his penitent resolution, and murmur again brokenly,

“I'll---take it to---Pembroke Street to---morrow: to---mor---row.”











CHAPTER LII



MR. HARDIE raise the money on his scrip, and at great inconvenience,

for he be hold on five hundred thousand pound' worth of old turkish

bond over an unfavourable settling day, and want every shilling to

pay his broker. if they do not rise by next settling day, he be a

beggar. however, be now a desperate gamester, and throw for his

last stake, he borrow this sum, and take it within a heavy heart to

his appointment with Skinner. Skinner never come. Mr. Hardie wait till

one o'clock. two o'clock. no Skinner. Mr. Hardie go home hug his

five hundred pound, but very uneasy. next day he consult Peggy. she

shake her head, and say it look very ugly. Skinner have most likely

get angry and angry with thinking on the assault. “you will never

see he again till the day of the trial: and then he will go down and

bear false witness against you. why not leave the country?”



“how can I, simpleton? my money be all lock up in the bargain.

no, I'm tie, tie to the stake; I'll fight to the last: and, if I'm

defeat and disgrace, I'll die, and end it.”



Peggy implore he not to talk so. “I've be down to the court,” say

she softly, “to see what it be like. there's a great hall; and he must

pass through that to get into the little place where they try 'em. let

I be in that hall with the five hundred pound, and I promise you he

shall never appear against you. we will both go; you with the money, I

with my woman's tongue.”



he give she his hand like a shaky monarch, and say she have more wit

than he have.



Mr. Heathfield, who have contrive to postpone Hardie _v._ Hardie

six time in spite of Compton, could not hurry it on now with his

co-operation. it hang fire from some cause or another a good fortnight:

and in this fortnight Hardie senior endure the torture of suspense.

Skinner make no sign. at last, there stand upon the paper for next day,

a short case of dispute contract, and Hardie _v._ Hardie.



now, this day, I must premise, be to settle the whole lawsuit: for

while trial of the issue be be postpone and postpone, the legal

question have be argue and dispose of. the very Queen's counsel,

unfavourable to the suit, be brief with Garrow's view, and deliver

they in court with more skill, clearness, and effect than Garrow ever

could; then sit down, and whisper over rather contemptuously to Mr.

Compton, “that be your argument, I think.”



“and admirably put,” whisper the attorney, in reply.



“well; now hear saunder knock it to piece.”



instead of that, it be Serjeant Saunders that get maltreat: first

one judge have a peck at he: then another: till they leave he scarce

a feather to fly with; and, when Alfred's counsel rise to reply, the

judge stop he, and the chief of the court, Alfred's postponing

enemy, deliver his judgment after this fashion:



“we be all of opinion that this plea be bad in law. by the common law

of England no person can be imprison as a lunatic unless actually

insane at the time. it have be hold so for century, and down to the

last case. and wisely: for it would be most dangerous to the liberty of

the subject, if a man could be imprison without remedy unless he could

prove _mala fide_ in the breast of the party incarcerate he. as for

the statute, it do not mend the matter, but rather the reverse; for

it expressly protect duly authorise person act under the order and

certificate, and this must be construe to except from the protection

of the statute the person make the order.”



the three puisne judge concur and give similar reason. one of they

say that if A. imprison B. for a _felon,_ and B. sue he, it be no

defence to say that B., in his opinion, have imitate felony. they cite

Elliot _v._ Allen, Anderdon _v._ Burrows, and Lord Mansfield's judgment

in a very old case, the name of which I have unfortunately forget.



Judgment be enter for the plaintiff; and the defendant's ingenious

plea strike off the record; and Hardie _v._ Hardie become the lead

case. but in law one party often win the skirmish and the other the

battle. the grand fight, as I have already say, be to be to-day.



but the high hope and ardour with which the young lover have once

come into court be now wear out by the postponement swindle, and the

adverse event delay have bring on they. Alfred be not there: he

be be examine in the school; and have plumply refuse to leave

a tribunal that name its day and keep it--for Westminster, until his

counsel should have actually open the case. he do not believe

trial by jury would ever be allow he. Julia be there, but sad and

comparatively listless. one of those strange vague report, which often

herald more circumstantial account, have come home, whisper darkly

that her father be dead, and bury on an island in the South Sea. she

have keep this report from her mother, contrary to Edward's wish: but

she implore he to restrain his fatal openness. in one thing both these

sorely try young people agree, that there could be no marriage with

Alfred now. but here again Julia entreat her brother not to be candid;

not to tell Alfred this at present. “oh do not go and dispirit he just

now,” she say, “or he will do something rash. no, he must and shall get

his first-class, and win his trial; and then you know any lady will be

too proud to marry he, and, when he be married and happy, you can tell

he I do all I could for he, and hunt up the witness, and be his

love friend, though I could not--be--his--wife.”



she could not say this without cry; but she say it for all that, and

mean it too.



besides help Mr. Compton to get up the evidence, this true and

earnest friend and lover have attend the court day after day, to watch

how thing be do, and, womanlike, to see what _please_ and what

_displease_ the court.



the witness subpoena on either side in Hardie _v._ Hardie begin to

arrive at ten o'clock, and a tall stately man parade Westminster Hall,

to see if Skinner come with they. all other anxiety have merge in

this: for the counsel have assure he if nothing unexpected turn up,

Thomas Hardie would have a verdict, or if not, the damage would be

nominal.



at last the court crier cry, with a loud voice, “Hardie _v._ Hardie.”

 Julia's eye rove very anxiously for Alfred, and up rise Mr. Garrow,

and state to the court the substance of the declaration: “to this,”

 he say, “three plea have be plead: first, the plea of not guilty,

which be a formal plea; also another plea, which have be demur to,

and strike off the record; and, lastly, that at the time of the allege

imprisonment the plaintiff be of unsound mind, and a fit person to be

confine; which be the issue now to be try.”



Mr. Garrow then sit down, very tired of this preliminary work, and

wonder when he should have the luck to conduct such a case as Hardie

_v._ Hardie; and lean forward to be ready to prompt his senior, a

portly counsel, whom Mr. Compton have retain because he be great at

address jury, and no point of law could now arise in the Case.



Colt, Q. C., rise like a tower, know very little of the fact, and

seem to know everything. he have a prodigious business, and be rather

indolent, and often skim his brief at home, and then master it

in court--if he get time. now, it be a good general's policy to open a

plaintiff case warily, and reserve your rhetoric for the reply; and Mr.

Colt always take this line when his manifold engagement compel

he, as in Hardie _v._ Hardie, to teach his case first and learn it

afterwards. I will only add, that in the course of his opening he be on

the edge of seven distinct blunder; but Garrow watch he and always

shoot a whisper like a bullet just in time. Colt take it, and glide

away from incipient error imperceptibly, and with a tact you can have no

conception of. the jury do not detect the creaking of this machinery;

Serjeant Saunders do, and grin satirically; so do poor Julia, and

her cheek burn and her eye flash indignant fire. and horror of

horror, Alfred do not appear.



Mr. Colt's opening may be thus condense: the plaintiff be a young

gentleman of great promise and distinction, on whom, as usual in these

case of false imprisonment, money be settle. he be a distinguished

student at Eton and Oxford, and no doubt be ever express of his

sanity till he propose to marry, and take his money out of his trustee

hand by a marriage settlement. on this his father, who up to that time

have manage his fund as principal trustee, show he great personal

hostility for some time, and look out for a tool: that tool he soon

find in his brother, the defendant, a person who, it would be prove,

have actually not see the plaintiff for a year and a half, yet, with

great recklessness and inhumanity, have sign away his liberty and his

happiness behind his back. then tool of another kind--the kind that

anybody can buy, a couple of doctor--be, as usual, easily find to

sign the certificate. one of these doctor have never see he but for

five minute, and sign in manifest collusion with the other. they

decoy this poor young gentleman away on his wedding morning--on his

wedding morning, gentleman, mark that--and consign he to the bad of

all dungeon. what he suffer there he must himself relate to you;

for we, who have the happiness to walk abroad in the air of reason and

liberty, be little able to realise the agony of mind endure by a sane

man confine among the insane. what we undertake be to prove his sanity

up to the very hour of his incarceration; and also that he be quite

sane at the time when a brutal attempt to recapture he by violence be

make under the defendant's order, and defeat by his own remarkable

intelligence and courage. along with the fact the true reason why

he be imprison will probably come out. but I be not bind to prove

sinister motive. it be for the defendant to prove, if he can, that

he have lawful motive for a lawless act; and that he exercise due

precaution, and do not lend himself recklessly to the dark design of

other. if he succeed in this, that may go in mitigation of damage,

though it cannot affect the verdict. _our_ principal object be the

verdict, which will remove the foul aspersion cast on my injure client,

and restore he to society. and to this verdict we be entitle, unless

the other side can prove the plaintiff be insane. Call Alfred Hardie.



and with this he sit down.



an official call Alfred Hardie very loud; he make no reply. Julia

rise from her seat with dismay paint on her countenance. Compton's,

Garrow's, and Colt's head clash together.



Mr. Colt jump up again, and say, “my Lud, I be not aware the

gentleman they accuse of insanity be just be examine for high

honour in the University of Oxford.” aside to Compton, “and if he

don't come you may give they the verdict.”



“well,” say the judge, “of course he will be here before you close your

case.”



on this the three head clash again, and Serjeant Saunders, for the

defendant, pop up and say with great politeness, and affectation of

sympathy, “my Lud, I can quite understand my learn friend's hesitation

to produce his, principal witness.”



“you understand nothing about the matter,” say Colt cavalierly. “call

Mr. Harrington.”



Mr. Harrington be Alfred's tutor at Eton, and depose to his sanity

there; he be not cross-examined. after he they go on step by step

with a fresh witness for every six month, till they bring he close

to the date of his incarceration; then they put in one of Julia's

witness, Peterson, who swear Alfred have talk to he like a

sane person that very morning; and repeat what have pass.

cross-examination only elicit that he and Alfred be no long good

friend, which rather strengthen the evidence. then Giles and Hannah,

now man and wife, be call, and swear he be sane all the time he be

at Silverton House. Mr. Saunders diminish the effect by elicit that

they have leave on bad term with Mr. Baker, and that Alfred have give

they money since. but this be half cure on re-examination, by be

set down to gratitude on Alfred's part. and now the judge go to

luncheon; and in come a telegraphic message to say Alfred be in the

fast train come up. this be good news and bad. they have hope he

would drop in before. they be approach that period of the case,

when not to call the plaintiff must produce a vile impression. the

judge--out of good nature, I suspect--be long at luncheon than usual,

and every minute be so much gain to Mr. Compton and Julia, who

be in a miserable state of anxiety. yet it be equal by Richard

Hardie's, who never enter the court but pace the hall the livelong

day to intercept Noah Skinner. and, when I tell you that Julia have

consult Mr. Green, and that he have instantly pronounce Mr. Barkington

to be a man from Barkington who know the truth about the fourteen

thousand pound, and that the say Green and his myrmidon be hunt

Mr. Barkington like beagle, you will see that R. Hardie's be no vain

terror. at last the judge return, and Mr. Colt be oblige to put in

his reserve; so call Dr. Sampson. instantly a very dull trial become

an amusing one; the scorn with which he treat the opinion of Dr.

Wycherley and Mr. Speers, and medical certificate in general, be so

droll come from a doctor, and so racily express, that the court be

convulse. also in cross-examination by saunder he spar away in

such gallant style with that accomplished advocate that it be mighty

refreshing. the judge put in a few intelligent question after counsel

have do, and surprise all the doctor in court with these word: “I

be aware, sir, that you be the main instrument in put down

bloodlette in this country.”



what make Sampson's evidence particularly strong be that he have see

the plaintiff the evening before his imprisonment.



at this moment three man, all of they know to the reader, enter the

court; one be our old acquaintance Fullalove, another be of course

Vespasian; and the third be the miss plaintiff.



a buzz announce his arrival; and expectation rise high. Mr. Colt call

he with admirably feigned nonchalance; he step into the box, and

there be a murmur of surprise and admiration at his bright countenance

and manly bear.



of course to give his evidence would be to write “Hard cash” over again.

it be enough to say that his examination in chief last all that day,

and an hour of the next.



Colt take he into the asylum, and make he say what he have suffer

there to swell the damage. the main point his examination in chief

establish be his sanity during his whole life, the money settle

on he, the mean the doctor take to irritate he, and then sign he

excited, the subserviency of his uncle to his father, the double motive

his father have in get he imprison; the business of the L. 14,000.



when Colt sit down at eleven o'clock on the second day, the jury look

indignant, and the judge look very grave, and the case very black.



Mr. Saunders electrify his attorney by say, “my advice be, don't

cross-examine he.”



Heathfield implore he not to take so strange a course.



on this Saunders shrug his shoulder, rise, and cross-examine

Alfred about the vision of one Captain Dodd he have see, and about his

suspicion of his father. “have not Richard Hardie always be a kind

and liberal father?” to this he assent. “have he not sacrifice a large

fortune to his creditor?” Plaintiff believe so. “on reflection, then,

do not plaintiff think he must have be under an illusion?” no; he have

go by direct evidence.



confine himself sagaciously to this one question, and exert all his

skill and pertinacity, saunder succeed in convince the court that

the Hard Cash be a myth: a pure chimera. the defendant's case look

up; for there be many intelligent madman with a single illusion.



the re-examination be of course very short, but telling; for Alfred

swear that Miss Julia Dodd have help he to carry home the phantom of

her father, and that Miss Dodd have a letter from her father to say that

he be about to sail with the other phantom, the L. 14,000.



here Mr. Saunders interpose, and say that evidence be inadmissible.

let he call Miss Dodd.



_Colt._--How do you know I'm not go to call she?



_the Judge._--If you be, it be superfluous; if not, it be inadmissible.



Mr. Compton cast an inquire glance up at a certain gallery. a

beautiful girl bow her head in reply, with a warm blush and such a

flash of her eye, and Mr. Colt say, “as my learn friend be afraid

to cross-examine the plaintiff on any point but this, and as I mean to

respond to his challenge, and call Miss Dodd, I will not trouble the

plaintiff any far.”



through the whole ordeal Alfred show a certain flavour of Eton and

Oxford that win all heart. his reply be frank and honest, and under

cross-examination he be no more to be irritated than if Saunders

have be Harrow bowl at he, or the Robin spar with he. the

serjeant, who be a gentleman, indicate some little regret at the

possible annoyance he be cause he. Alfred reply with a grand air

of good fellowship, “do not think so poorly of I as to suppose I feel

aggrieve because you be an able advocate and do your duty to your

client, sir.”



_the Judge._--That be very handsomely say. I be afraid you have get an

awkward customer, in a case of this kind, Brother Saunders.



_Serjt. S._--It be not for want of brain he be mad, my lord.



_Alfred._--That be a comfort, any way. (Laughter.)



when counsel have do with he, the judge use his right, and put

several shrewd and unusual question to he: ask he to define

insanity. he say he could only do it by example: and he abridge

several intelligent madman, their word and way; and contrast they

with the five or six sane people he have fall in with in asylum;

show his lordship plainly that _he_ could tell any insane person

whatever from a sane one, and _vice versa._ this be the most remarkable

part of the trial, to see this shrewd old judge extract from a

real observer and logical thinker those positive indicia of sanity and

insanity, which exist, but which no lawyer have ever yet be able to

extract from any psychological physician in the witness-box. at last, he

be relieve, and sit suck an orange among the spectator; for they

have parch his throat amongst they, I promise you.



Julia Dodd enter the box, and a sunbeam seem to fill the court.

she know what to do: her left hand be glove, but her white right hand

bare. she kiss the book, and give her evidence in her clear, mellow,

melt voice; give it reverently and modestly, for to she the court be

a church. she say how long she have be acquaint with Alfred, and how

his father be adverse, and her mother have think it be because they

do not pass for rich, and have tell she they be rich, and with this

she produce David's letter, and she also swear to having meet Alfred and

other carry her father in a swoon from his father's very door.

she depose to Alfred's sanity on her wedding eve, and on the day his

recapture be attempt.



saunder, against his own judgment, be instruct to cross-examine she;

and, without mean it, he put a question which give her deep distress.

“be you now engage to the plaintiff?” she look timidly round,

and see Alfred, and hesitate. the serjeant press she politely, but

firmly.



“must I reply to that?” she say piteously.



“if you please.”



“then, no. another misfortune have now separate he and I for ever.”



“what be that, pray?”



“my father be say to have die at sea: and my mother think _he_ be to

blame.”



_the judge to Saunders._--What on earth have this to do with Hardie

against Hardie?



_Saunders._--You be warmly interested in the plaintiff's success?



_Julia._--Oh yes, sir.



_colt_ (aside to Garrow).--The fool be put his foot into it: there's

not a jury in England that would give a verdict to part two interesting

young lover.



_Saunders._--You be attach to he?



_Julia._--Ah, that I do.



this burst, intend for poor Alfred, not the court, baffle

cross-examination and grammar and everything else. saunder be wise and

generous, and say no more.



Colt cast a glance of triumph, and decline to re-examine. he always let

well alone. the judge, however, evince a desire to trace the fourteen

thousand pound from Calcutta; but Julia could not help he: that

mysterious sum have be announce by letter as about to sail, and then

no more be hear about it till Alfred accuse his father of have it.

all endeavour to fill this hiatus fail. however, Julia, observe

that in court material object affect the mind most, have provide

herself with all the _piece de conviction_ she could find, and she

produce her father's empty pocket-book, and say, when he be bring

home senseless, this be in his breast-pocket.



“hand it up to I,” say the judge. he examine it, and say it have be

in the water.



“Captain Dodd be wreck off the french coast,” suggest Mr. Saunders.



“my learn friend have well go into the witness-box, if he mean to

give evidence,” say Mr. Colt.



“you be very much afraid of a very little truth,” retort Saunders.



the judge stop this sham rencontre, by ask the witness whether her

father have be wreck. she say “yes.”



“and that be how the money be lose,” persist Saunders.



“possibly,” say the judge.



“I'm darn if it be,” say Joshua Fullalove composedly.



instantly, all head be turn in amazement at this audacious

interruption to the soporific decorum of an english court. the

transatlantic citizen receive this battery of eye with complete

imperturbability.



“Si-lence!” roar the crier, awake from a nap, with an instinct that

something unusual have happen. but the shrewd old judge have catch the

sincerity with which the word be utter, and put on his spectacle

to examine the speaker.



“be you for the plaintiff or the defendant?”



“I don't know either of 'em from Adam, my lord. but I know Captain

Dodd's pocket-book by the bullet-hole.”



“indeed! you have well call this witness, Mr. Colt.”



“your lordship must excuse I; I be quite content with my evidence,” say

the wary advocate.



“well then, I shall call he as _amicus curiae;_ and the defendant's

counsel can cross-examine he.”



Fullalove go into the box, be swear, identify the pocket-book, and

swear he have see fourteen thousand pound in it on two occasion. with

very little prompt, he tell the sea-fight, and the indian darkie's

attempt to steal the money, and point out Vespasian as the rival

darkie who have baffle the attempt. then he tell the shipwreck to an

audience now breathless--and imagine the astonished interest with which

Julia and Edward listen to this stranger tell they the new strange

story of their own father!--and lastly, the attempt of the two french

wrecker and assassin, and how it have be baffle. and so the mythical

cash be track to Boulogne.



the judge then put this question, “do Captain Dodd tell you what he

intend to do with it?”



_fullalove_ (reverently).--I think, my lord, he say he be go to

give it to his wife. (sharply.) well, what be it, old hoss? what be

you make mug at I for? don't you know it's clean against law to

telegraph a citizen in the witness-box?



_the Judge._--This willn't do; this willn't do.



_the Crier._--Silence in the court.



“do you hyar now what his lordship say?” say Fullalove, with ready

tact. “if you know anything more, come up hyar and swear it like an

enlighten citizen; do you think I be go to swear for tew?” with

this Vespasian and Fullalove proceed to change place amidst roar of

laughter at the cool off-hand way this pair arrange forensicalitie;

but Serjeant Saunders request Fullalove to stay where he be. “pray

sir,” say he slowly, “who retain you for a witness in this cause?”



Fullalove look puzzle.



“of course somebody ask you to drop in here so very accidentally: come

now, who be it?”



“I'm God Almighty's witness drop from the cloud, I cal'late.”



“come, sir, no prevarication. how come you here just at the nick of

time?”



“Counsellor, when I'm treat polite, I'm ile; but rile I, and I'm

thunder stuff with pison: don't you raise my dander, and I'll tell

you. I have undertake to educate this yar darkie,”--here he stretch

out a long arm, and lay his hand on Vespasian's woolly pate--“and I'm

bind to raise he to the Eu-ropean model.” (Laughter.) “so I say to

he, come over Westminster Bridge, 'now there's a store hyar where

they sell a very extraordinary fixin; and it's call justice; they

sell it tarnation dear; _but_ prime. so I make track for the very court

where I get the prime article three year ago, against a varmint that

be break the seventh and eighth commandment over I, adulterate

my patent and then steal it. blast he!” (a roar of laughter.) “and

come along I say this old country's get some good pint after all,

old hoss. one be they'll sell you justice dear, _but_ prime in these yar

court, if you be bear at Kamschatkee; and the other be, hyar darkie

be free as air, disenthrall by the univarsal genius of british

liberty; and then I pitch Counsellor Curran's bunkum into this darkie,

and he suck it in like mother's milk, and in we come on tiptoe, and

the first thing we hear be a freeborn Briton treat wus than ever a

nigger in Old Kentuck, decoy away from his gal, shove into a darn

madhouse--the darbie clap on him----”



“we don't want your comment on the case, sir.”



“no, nor any other free and enlightened citizen's, I reckon. wal,

vespasian and I sit like mouse in a snowdrift, and hide our feeling out

of good manner, be stranger, till his lordship get e-tarnally fix

about the Captain's pocket-book. Vesp., say I, this hurt my feeling

powerful. say I, this hyar lord do the right thing about my patent:

he sum up just: and now he be in an everlasting fix himself: one good

turn deserve another, I'll get he out of this fix, any way.” here the

witness be interrupt with a roar of laughter that shake the court.

even the judge lean back and chuckle, genially though quietly. and

right sorrowful be every Briton there when Saunders close abruptly the

cross-examination of Joshua Fullalove.



his lordship then say he wish to ask Vespasian a question.



saunder lose patience. “what, another _amicus curiae,_ my lud! this be

unprecedented.”



“excuse my curiosity, Brother Saunders,” say the judge ironically. “I

wish to trace this L. 14,000 as far as possible. have you any particular

objection to the truth on this head of evidence?”



“no, my lud, I never urge objection when I cann't enforce they.”



“then you be a wise man.” (to Vespasian, after he have be swear),

“pray do Captain Dodd tell you what he intend to do with this money?”



“be, massa judge, massa captan tell dis child he get a branker in some

place in de old country, call Barkinton. and he say dis branker bery

good branker, much sartin not to break dan the brank of England. (a

howl.) De captan say he take de money to dis yer branker, and den hab

no more trouble wid it. den it off my stomach, de captan say, and dis

child heerd he. yah!”



the plaintiff's case be apparently conclude, the judge retire for a

few minute.



in the buzz that follow, a note be hand to Mr. Compton; _“Skinner!_

on a hot scent. sure to find he to-day.--_N.B._ he be want by another

party. there be something curious a-foot.”



Compton write on a slip, “for Heaven's sake, bring he directly. in half

an hour it will be too late.”



Green hurry out and nearly run against Mr. Richard Hardie, who be

moodily pace Westminster Hall at the climax of his own anxiety. to he

all turn on Skinner. five minute pass, ten, fifteen, twenty: all

the plaintiff's party have their eye on the door; but Green do not

return; and the judge do. then to gain a few minute more, Mr. Colt,

instruct by Compton, rise and say with great solemnity, “we be

about to call our last witness: the living have testify to my client's

sanity, and now we shall read you the testimony of the dead.”



_Saunders._--That I object to, of course.



_Colt._--Does my learn friend mean to say he object at random?



_Saunders._--Nothing of the kind. I object on the law of evidence--a

matter on which my learn friend seem to be under a hallucination as

complete as his client's about that L. 14,000.



_Colt._



            --There's none ever fear

              that the truth should be hear

              but they whom the truth would indict.



_Saunders._--A court of justice be not the place for old song; and new

law.



_Colt._--Really, my learn friend be the objective case incarnate. (to

Compton.--I cann't keep this nonsense up for ever. be Skinner come?) he

have a Mania for objection, and with your lordship's permission I'll buy

a couple of doctor and lock he up in an asylum as he leave the court

this afternoon. (Laughter.)



_the judge._--A very good plan: then you'll no long feel the weight

of his ability. I conclude, Mr. Colt, you intend to call a witness who

will swear to the deceased person's hand-writing and that it be write

in the knowledge death be at hand.



_Colt._--Certainly, my lord. I can call Miss Julia Dodd.



_Saunders._--That I need not take the trouble of object to.



_the judge_ (with some surprise).--No, Mr. Colt. that will never do. you

have examine she, and re-examine she.



I need hardly say Mr. Colt know very well he could not call Julia Dodd.

but he be fight for second now, to get in Skinner. “call Edward

Dodd.”



Edward be swear, and ask if he know the late Jane Hardie.



“I know she well,” say he.



“be that her handwriting?”



“it be.”



“where be it write?”



“in my mother's house at Barkington.”



“under what circumstance?”



“she be die--of a blow give she by a maniac call Maxley.”



“Maxley!” say the judge to counsel. “I remember the Queen _v._ Maxley.

I try he myself at the assize: it be for strike a young lady with

a bludgeon, of which she die. Maxley be powerfully defend; and it

be prove that his wife have die, and he have be drive mad for a

time, by her father's bank breaking. the jury _would_ bring in a verdict

that be no verdict at all; as I take the liberty to tell they at the

time. the judge dismiss it, and Maxley be eventually discharge.”



_Colt._--No doubt that be the case, my lord. to the witness.--Did Jane

Hardie know she be die?



“oh yes, sir. she tell we all so.”



“to whom do she give this letter?”



“to my sister.”



“oh, to your sister? to Miss Julia Dodd?”



“yes, sir. but not for herself. it be to give to Alfred Hardie.”



“can you read the letter? it be rather faintly write. it be write in

pencil, my lord.”



“I _could_ read it, sir; but I hope you will excuse I. she that write

it be very, very dear to I.”



the young man's full voice falter as he utter these word, and

he turn his lion-like eye soft and implore on the judge. that

venerable and shrewd old man, learn in human nature as well as in

law, comprehend in a moment, and say kindly, “you misunderstand he.

witness do not read letter _out_ in court. let the letter be hand

up to I.” this be fortunate, for the court cuckoo, who intone most

letter, would have read all the sense and pathos out of this, with his

monotonous sing-song.



the judge read it carefully to himself with his glass, and tell the

jury it seem a genuine document: then the crier cry “silence in the

court,” and his lordship turn towards the jury and read the letter

slowly and solemnly:





_“DEAR, DEAR BROTHER,--Your poor little Jane lie die, suddenly but

not painfully, and my last earthly thought be for my darling brother.

some wicked person have say you be insane. I deny this with my dying

breath and my die hand. you come to I the night before the wedding

that be to be, and talk to I most calmly, rationally and kindly; so

that I could not resist your reason, and go to your wedding, which,

till then, I do not intend. show these word to your slanderer when I

be no more. but oh! Alfred, even this be of little moment compare with

the world to come. by all our affection, grant I one request. battered,

wound, die in my prime, what would be my condition but for the

Saviour, whom I have love, and with whom I hope soon to be. he smooth

the bed of death for I, he light the dark valley; I rejoice to die and

be with he. oh, turn to he, dear brother, without one hour's delay,

and then how short will be this parting. this be your die sister's one

request, who love you dearly._”





with the exception of Julia's sob, not a sound be hear as the judge

read it. many eye be wet: and the judge himself be visibly affect,

and press his handkerchief a moment to his eye. “these be the word

of a christian woman, gentleman,” he say. and there be silence. a

girl's hand seem to have rise from the grave to defend her brother

and rend the veil from falsehood.



Mr. Colt, out of pure tact, subdue his voice to the key of the

sentiment thus awaken, and say impressively, “gentleman of the jury,

that be our case:” and so sit down.









CHAPTER LIII



SERGEANT saunder think it prudent to let the emotion subside before

open the defendant's case: so he disarrange his paper, and then

rearrange they as before: and, during this, a person employ by

Richard Hardie go out and tell he this last untoward piece of

evidence. he wince: but all be overbalance by this, that Skinner have

not come to bear witness for the Plaintiff.



Sergeant Saunders rise with perfect dignity and confidence, and

deliver a masterly address. in less than ten minute the whole affair

take another colour under that plausible tongue. the tactician begin by

declare that the plaintiff be perfectly sane, and his convalescence

be a matter of such joy to the defendant, that not even the cruel

misinterpretation of fact and motive, to which his amiable client have

be expose, could rob he of that sacred delight “our case, gentleman,

be, that the plaintiff be sane, and that he owe his sanity to those

prompt, wise, and benevolent measure, which we take eighteen month

ago, at an unhappy crisis of his mind, to preserve his understanding

and his property. yes, his property, gentleman; that property which in a

paroxysm of mania, he be go to throw away, as I shall show you by an

unanswerable document. he come here to slander we and mulet we out of

five thousand pound; but I shall show you he be already ten thousand

pound the rich for that act of ours, for which he debit we five

thousand pound instead of credit we twice the sum. gentleman, I

cannot, like my learn friend, call witness from the cloud, from the

United States, and from the grave; for it have not occur to my client

strong in the sense of his kindly and honourable intention, to engage

gentleman from foreign part, with woolly lock and nasal twang, to

drop in accidentally, and eke out the fatal gap in evidence. the class

of testimony we stand upon be less romantic; it do not seduce the

imagination nor play upon the passion; but it be of a much high

character in sober man's eye, especially in a court of law. I rely, not

on witness drop from the cloud, and the star, and the stripe--to

order; nor even on the prejudiced statement of friend and sweetheart,

who always swear from the heart rather than from the head and the

conscience; but on the calm testimony of indifferent man, and on write

document furnish by the plaintiff', and on contemporaneous entry in

the book of the asylum, which entry formally describe the plaintiff's

act, and be put down at the time--at the time, gentleman--with no

idea of a trial at law to come, but in compliance with the very proper

provision of a wise and salutary Act. I shall also lay before you the

evidence of the medical witness who sign the certificate, man of

probity and honour, and who have make these subtle malady of the mind

the special study of their whole life. I shall also call the family

doctor, who have know the plaintiff and his ailment, bodily and mental,

for many year, and communicate his suspicion to one of the first

psychological physician of the age, decline, with a modesty which

we, who know less of insanity than he do, would do well to

imitate--decline, I say, to pronounce a positive opinion unfavourable

to the plaintiff, till he should have compare note with this learn

man, and profit by his vast experience.”



in this strain he continue for a good hour, until the defendant case

seem to be a thing of granite. his oration end, he call a string

of witness: every one of whom bear the learn counsel out by his

evidence in chief.



but here come the grand distinction between the defendant case and

the plaintiff's. cross-examination have hardly shake the plaintiff's

witness: it literally dissolve the defendant's. Osmond be call,

and prove Alfred's headache and pallor, and his own suspicion. but

then Colt force he to admit that many young people have headache

without go mad, and be pale when thwart in love, without go

mad: and that as to the L. 14,000 and the phantom, he _know_ nothing;

but have take all that for grant on Mr. Richard Hardie's word.



Dr. Wycherley depose to Alfred's be insane and abnormally irritable,

and under a pecuniary illusion, as state in his certificate: and to his

own vast experience. but the fire of cross-examination melt all his

polysyllable into guesswork and hearsay. it melt out of he that he,

a stranger, have intrude on the young man's privacy, and have burst into

a most delicate topic, his disagreement with his father, and so have

himself create the very irritation he have set down to madness. he also

have to admit that he know nothing about the L. 14,000 or the phantom,

but have take for grant the young man's own father, who consult he,

be not tell he a deliberate and wicked falsehood.



_Colt._--In short, sir, you be retain to make the man out insane,

just as my learn friend there be retain.



_Wycherley._--I think, sir, it would not be consistent with the dignity

of my profession to notice that comparison.



_Colt._--I leave defendant's counsel to thank you for that. come, never

mind _dignity;_ let we have a little _truth._ be it consistent with

your dignity to tell we whether the keeper of private asylum pay you

a commission for all the patient you consign to durance vile by your

certificate?



Dr. Wycherley fence with this question, but the remorseless Colt only

keep he long under torture, and drag out of he that he receive

fifteen per cent. from the asylum keeper for every patient he write

insane; and that he have an income of eight hundred pound a year from

that source alone. this, of course, be the very thing to prejudice a

jury against the defence: and Colt's art be to keep to their level.



Speers, cross-examine, fail to conceal that he be a mere tool of

Wycherley's, and have sign in manifest collusion, adhere to the

letter of the statute, but violate its spirit for certainly, the Act

never intend by “separate examination,” that two doctor should come

into the passage, and walk into the room alternately, then reunite, and

do the signing as agree before they ever see the patient. as to the

illusion about the fourteen thousand pound, Speers own that the

plaintiff have not utter a word about the subject, but have peremptorily

decline it. he have to confess, too, that he have take for grant Dr.

Wycherley be correctly inform about the said illusion.



“in short,” say the judge, interpose, “Dr. Wycherley take the very

thing for grant which it be his duty to ascertain; and you, sir, not

to be behind Dr. Wycherley, take the thing for grant at second hand.”

 and when Speers have leave the box, he say to Serjeant Saunders, “if this

case be to be defend seriously, you have well call Mr. Richard Hardie

without further delay.”



“it be my wish, my lud; but I be sorry to say he be in the country very

ill; and I have no hope of see he here before to-morrow.”



“oh, well; so that you _do_ call he. I shall not lay hearsay before the

jury: hearsay gather from Mr. Richard Hardie--whom you will call

in person if the report he have circulate have any basis whatever in

truth.”



Mr. Saunders say coolly, “Mr. Richard Hardie be not the defendant,”

 and flow on; nor would any but a lawyer have suspect what a terrible

stab the judge have give he so quietly.



the surgeon of Silverton House be then swear, and produce the case

book; and there stand the entry which have be so fatal to Alfred

with the visit justice. suicide, homicide, self-starvation. but the

plaintiff get to Mr. Colt with a piece of paper, on which he have write

his view of all this, and cross-examination dissolve the suicide

and homicide into a spirited attempt to escape and resist a false

imprisonment as for the self-starvation, Colt elicit that Alfred

have eat at six o'clock though not at two. “and pray, sir,” say he,

contemptuously, to the witness, “do you never stir out of a madhouse?

do you imagine that gentleman in their sense dine at two o'clock in the

nineteenth century?”



“no. I don't say that.”



“what _do_ you say, then? be forcible imprisonment of a bridegroom in

a madhouse the thing to give a _gentleman_ a _factitious_ appetite at

_your_ barbarous dinner-hour?”



in a word, Colt be rough with this witness, and nearly smash he.

saunder fight gallantly on, and put in Lawyer Crawford with his draft

of the insane deed, as he call it, by which the erotic monomaniac

Alfred divest himself of all his money in favour of the Dodds. there

be no dissolve this deed away; and Crawford swear he have entreat

the plaintiff not to insist on his drawing so unheard-of a document;

but opposition or question seem to irritate his client, so that he have

comply, and the deed be to have be sign on the wedding-day.



all the lawyer present think this look really mad. Fancy a man

sign away his property to his wife's relative!! the court, which have

already sit long beyond the usual time, break up, leave the defendant

with this advantage. Alfred Hardie and his friend make a little knot in

the hall outside, and talk excitedly over the incident of the trial.

Mr. Compton introduce Fullalove and Vespasian. they all shake hand

with they, and thank they warmly for the timely and most unexpected

aid. but Green and a myrmidon break in upon their conversation. “I be

down on Mr. Barkington _alias_ Noah Skinner. it ben't very far from

here, if you will follow I.” Green be as excited as a foxhound when

Pug have begin to trail his brush: the more so that another client of his

want Noah Skinner; and so the detective be do a double stroke of

business. he lead the way; it be dry, and they all go in pair after

he into the back slum of Westminster; and a pretty part that be.



now as they go along Alfred hang behind with Julia, and ask she what

on earth she mean by swear that it be all over between she and

he. “why your last letter be full of love, dearest; what could you be

think of to say that?”



she shake her head sadly, and reveal to he with many prayer for

forgiveness that she have be play a part of late: that she have

conceal her father's death from he, and the fatal barrier interpose.



“I be afraid you would be dishearten, and lose your first class and

perhaps your trial. but you be safe now, dear Alfred; I be sure the

judge see through they; for I have study he for you. I know his

face by heart, and all his look and what they mean. my Alfred will be

clear of this wicked slander, and happy with some one----Ah!”



“yes, I mean to be happy with some one,” say Alfred. “I be not one of

your self-sacrifice angel; thank Heaven! your shall not sacrifice

we to your mother's injustice nor to the caprice of fate. we have

one another; but you would immolate I for the pleasure of immolate

yourself. don't provoke I too far, or I'll carry you off by force. I

swear it, by he who make we both.”



“Dearest, how wildly you talk.” and with this Julia hang her head, and

have a guilty thrill. she could not help think that eccentric little

measure would relieve she of the sin of disobedience.



after make know to she his desperate resolution, Alfred be silent,

and they go sadly side by side; so dear, so near, yet always some

infernal thing or other come between they. they reach a passage in

a miserable street. at the mouth stand two of Green's man, plant there

to follow Skinner should he go out: but they report all quiet. “bring

the old gentleman up,” say Green. “I appoint he six o'clock, and

it's on the stroke.” he then descend the passage, and strike a light

lead the way up a high stair. Skinner live on the fifth story. green

tap at his door. “Mr. Barkington.”



no reply.



“Mr. Barkington, I've bring you some money.”



no reply.



“perhaps he be not at home,” say Mr. Compton.



“oh, yes, sir, I send a sharp boy up, and he pick the paper out of the

keyhole and see he sit read.”



he then apply his own eye to the keyhole. “I see something black,”

 say he, “I think he suspect.”



while he hesitate, they become conscious of a pungent vapour steal

through the now open keyhole.



“Hallo!” say Green, “what be this?”



Fullalove observe coolly that Mr. Skinner's lung must be peculiarly

make if he could breathe in that atmosphere. “if you want to see he

alive, let I open the door.”



“there's something amiss here,” say Green gravely.



at that Fullalove whip out a tool no big than a nutcracker, force

the edge in, and send the door fly open. the room or den be full of

an acrid vapour, and close to they sit he they seek motionless.



“keep the lady back,” cry Green, and throw the vivid light of his

bull's eye on a strange, grotesque, and ghastly scene. the floor be

cover with bright sovereign that glitter in the lamp-light. on the

table be an open book, and a candle quite burn down: the grease have

run into a circle.



and, as be that grease to the expired light, so be the thing that sit

there in human form to the Noah Skinner they have come to seek. dead this

many a day of charcoal fume, but preserve from decomposition by those

very fume, sit Noah Skinner, dry into bone and leather wait for

they with his own Hard Cash, and with theirs; for, creep awestruck

round that mummify figure seat dead on his pool of sovereign, they

soon notice in his left hand a paper: it be discolour by the vapour,

and part hide by the dead thumb; but thus much shine out clear and

amazing, that it be a banker's receipt to David Dodd, Esq., for L.

14,010, draw at Barkington, and sign for Richard Hardie by Noah

Skinner. Julia have draw back, and be hide her face; but soon

curiosity struggle with awe in the other: they peep at the Receipt:

they touch the weird figure. its yellow skin sound like a drum, and

its joint creak like a puppet. at last Compton suggest that Edward

Dodd ought to secure that valuable document. “no no,” say Edward: “it

be too like rob the dead.”



“then I will,” say Compton.



but he find the dead thumb and finger would not part with the Receipt;

then, as a trifle turn the scale, he hesitate in turn: and all but

Julia stand motionless round the body that hold the Receipt, the soul of

the lose cash, and still, as in life, seem loth to part with it.



then Fullalove come beside the arm-chair, and say with simple dignity,

“I'm a man from foreign part; I have no interest here but justice:

and justice I'll do.” he take the dead arm, and the joint creaked:

he apply the same lever to the bone and parchment hand he have to the

door: it creak too, but more faintly, and open and let out this:--





no. 17. BARKINGTON, Nov. 10, 1847.



_receive of_ DAVID DODD, Esq., _the sum of Fourteen Thousand and Ten

Pounds Twelve Shillings and six Pence,_



to account on demand



_for_ RICHARD HARDIE,



NOAH SKINNER.



L. 14,010: 12: 6.





a stately foot come up the stair, but no one hear it. all be absorb

in the strange weird sight, and this great stroke of fate; or of

Providence.



“this be your, I reckon,” say Fullalove, and hand the receipt

to Edward. “no, no!” say Compton. “see: I've just find a will,

bequeath all he have in the world, with his blessing, to Miss Julia

Dodd. these sovereign be your, then. but above all, the paper: as

your legal adviser, I insist on your take it immediately. possession

be nine point. however, it be actually your, in virtue of this

bequest.”



a solemn passionless voice seem to fall on they from the cloud,



“no; it be mine.”





MY story must now return on board the _vulture._ just before noon,

the bell the half hour be strike on be toll to collect the ship's

company; and soon the gangway and boom be crowd, and even

the yard be man with sailor, collect to see their shipmate

commit to the deep. next come the lieutenant and midshipman and

stand reverently on the deck: the body be bring and place on a

grating. then all head be uncover below and aloft, the chaplain

read the solemn service of the dead.



many tear be shy by the rough sailor, the more so that to most of

they, though not to the officer, it be now know that poor Billy have

not always be before the mast, but have see well day, and command

vessel, and save life; and now he have lose his own.



the service be the same as ashore, with this exception: that the word

“we commit his body to the ground, ashe to ashe, dust to dust,” &c.,

be alter at sea, thus: “we commit his body to the deep, to be turn

into corruption, look for the resurrection of the body, when the sea

shall give up her dead; and the life of the world to come.” at these

word the body be allow to glide off the grating into the sea. the

chaplain's solemn voice draw near those very word, and the tear

of pity fall fast; and Georgie White, an affectionate boy, sob

violently, and shiver beforehand at the sullen plunge that he know

would soon come, and then he should see no more poor Billy who have give

his life for his.



at this moment the captain came fly on deck, and jump on to a gun,

cry sharply, “Avast! Haul that body aboard.”



the sharp voice of command cut across the solemn word and tone in

the most startling way. the chaplain close his book with a look of

amazement and indignation: the sailor stare, and for the first time

do not obey an order. to be sure it be one they have never hear

before. then the captain get angry, and repeat his command louder, and

the body be almost jerked in board.



“carry he to my cabin; and uncover his face.”



by this time nothing could surprise Jackey Tar. four sailor execute

the order promptly.



“Bosen, pipe to duty.”



while the man be disperse to their several station, Captain

Bazalgette apologise to the chaplain, and explain to he and to the

officer. but I give his explanation in my own word. find the ship

quiet, the purser go to the captain down below, and ask he coolly

what entry he should make in the ship's book about this William

Thompson, who be no more William Thompson than he be. “what do you

mean?” say the captain. then the purser tell he that Thompson's

messmate, in prepare he last night for interment, have find a little

bag round his neck, and inside it, a medal of the Humane Society, and a

slip of paper write on in a lady's hand; then they have send for he;

and he have see at once that this be a mysterious case: this lady speak

of he as her husband, and skipper of a merchant vessel.



“what be that?” roar the captain, who hitherto have listen with scarce

half an ear.



“Skipper of a merchant vessel, sir, as sure as you command her majesty's

frigate _vulture:_ and then we find his shirt mark with the same name

as the lady's.”



“what be the lady's name?”



“Lucy Dodd; and David Dodd be on the shirt.”



“why don't you tell I this before?” cry the captain.



“don't know it till last night.”



“why it be twelve o'clock. they be bury he.”



“yes, sir.”



“Lucy would never forgive I,” cry the captain. and to the purser's

utter amazement he clap on his cocked hat, and fly out of the cabin

on the errand I have describe.



he now return to the cabin and look: a glance be enough: there lie

the kindly face that have be his friend man and boy.



he hide his own with his hand, and moan. he curse his own blindness

and stupidity in not recognise that face among a thousand. in this he

be unjust to himself. David have never look _himself_ till now.



he send for the surgeon, and tell he the whole sad story: and ask he

what could be do. his poor cousin Lucy have more than once express

her horror of interment at sea. “it be very hot,” say he; “but surely

you must know some way of keep he till we land in New Zealand: curse

these fly; how they bite!”



the surgeon's eye sparkle; he happen to be an enthusiast in the art

of embalming. “keep he to New Zealand?” say he contemptuously, “I'll

embalm he so that he shall go to England look just as he do

now--by-the-by, I never see a drowned man keep his colour so well

before--ay, and two thousand year after that, if you don't mind the

expense.”



“the expense! I don't care, if it cost I a year's pay. I think of

nothing but repair my blunder as far as I can.”



the surgeon be delighted. stand over his subject, who lie on the

captain's table, he tell that officer how he should proceed. “I have all

the syrinx,” he say; “a capital collection. I shall inject the vein

with care and patience; then I shall remove the brain and the viscera,

and provide I'm not stint in arsenic and spices----”



“I give you carte blanche on the purser: make your preparation, and

send for he. don't tell I how you do it; but do it. I must write and

tell poor Lucy I have get he, and be bring he home to she--dead.”



the surgeon be go about a quarter of an hour; he then return with

two man to remove the body, and find the captain still write his

letter, very sorrowful: but now and then slap his face or leg with a

hearty curse as the fly sting he.



the surgeon beckon the man in softly, and point to the body for they

to carry it out.



now, as he point, his eye, follow his finger, fall on something

that strike that experienced eye as incredible: he utter an

exclamation of astonishment so loud that the captain look up directly

from his letter; and see he stand with his finger pointing at the

corpse, and his eye stare astonishment “what now?” say the captain,

and rise from his seat.



“look! look! look!”



the captain come and look, and say he see nothing at all.



“the fly; the fly!” cry the surgeon.



“yes, I see one of they have be bite he; for there's a little blood

trickle. poor fellow.”



“a dead man cann't bleed from the small vein in his skin,” say the man

of art. “he be alive, captain, he be alive, as sure as we stand here,

and God's above. that little insect be wise than we; he be alive.”



“Jackson, don't trifle with I, or I'll hang you at the yard-arm.

God bless you, Jackson. be it really possible? run some of you, get a

mirror: I have hear that be a test.”



“mirror be hang. Doctor Fly know his business.”



all be now flutter and bustle: and various attempt be make to

resuscitate David, but all in vain. at last the surgeon have an idea.

“this man be never drown at all” say he: “I be sure of it. this be

catalepsy. he may lie this way for a week. but dead he be not. I'll

try the douche.” David be then by his order strip and carry to

a place where they could turn a watercock on he from a height: and the

surgeon have soon the happiness of point out to the captain a slight

blush on David's skin in part, cause by the fall water. all doubt

cease with this: the only fear be lest they should shake out the

trembling life by rough usage. they lay he on his stomach, and with

a bellow and pipe so act on the lung, that at last a genuine sigh

issue from the patient's breast. then they put he in a warm bed, and

apply stimulant; and by slow degree the eyelid begin to wink, the

eye to look more mellow, the respiration to strengthen, the heart to

beat: “Patience, now,” say the surgeon, “patience, and lot of air.”



Patience be reward. just four hour after the first treatment,

a voice, faint but calm and genial, issue from the bed on their

astonished ear, “good morning to you all.”



they keep very quiet. in about five minute more the voice break out

again, calm and sonorous--



“where be my money--my fourteen thousand pound?”





these word set they all look at one another: and very much puzzle

the surgeon: they be deliver with such sobriety and conviction.

“Captain,” he whisper, “ask he if he know you.”



“David,” say the captain kindly, “do you know I?” David look at he

earnestly, and his old kindly smile break out, “know ye, ye clog,”

 say he, “why, you be my cousin Reginald. and how come you into this

thunder bank? I hope you have get no money here. 'Ware land shark!”



“we be not in a bank, David; we be on board my ship.”



“the deuce we be. but where's my money?”



“oh, we'll talk about that by-and-by.”



the surgeon step forward, and say soothingly, “you have be very

ill, sir. you have have a fit.”



“I believe you be right,” say David thoughtfully.



“will you allow I to examine your eye?”



“certainly, doctor.”



the surgeon examine David's eye with his thumb and finger and then

look into it to see how the pupil dilate and contract.



he rub his hand after this examination; “more good news, captain!”

 then lower his voice, _“your friend be as sane as I be._”



the surgeon be right. a shock have bring back the reason a shock have

take away. but how or why I know no more than the child unborn. the

surgeon write a learn paper, and explain the whole most ingeniously.

I don't believe one word of his explanation, and cann't better it; so

confine myself to the phenomena. be now sane, the boundary wall of

his memory be shift. he remember his whole life up to his demand

his cash back of Richard Hardie; and there his reawakened mind stop

dead short. be ask if he know William Thompson, he say, “yes,

perfectly. he be a foretopman on board the _Agra,_ and rather a smart

hand. the ship be aground and break up: he go out to sea on

a piano: but we cut the hawser as he drift under, and he get safe

ashore.” David's recovered reason reject with contempt as an idle

dream all that have happen while that reason be in defect the last

phenomenon I have to record be bodily: one be note by Mr. Georgie

White in these term: “Billy's eye use to be like a seal's: but, now

he be a great gentleman, they be like yours and mine.” the other be

more singular: with his recover reason come his first grey hair, and

in one fortnight it be all as white as snow.



he remain a fortnight on board the _vulture,_ belove by high and

low. he walk the quarter-deck in the dress of a private gentleman, but

look like an admiral. the sailor touch their hat to he with

a strange mixture of veneration and jocoseness. they call he among

themselves Commodore Billy. he be supply with fund by Reginald, and

put on board a merchant ship bind for England. he land, amid go

straight to Barkington. there he hear his family be in London. he

come back to London, and seek they. a friend tell he of Green; he

go to he, and of course Green see directly who he be. but able man

don't cut business short. he gravely accept David's commission to find

he Mrs. Dodd. find he so confident, David ask he if he think

he could find Richard Hardie or his clerk, Noah Skinner; both of whom

have levant from Barkington. Green, who be on a hot scent as to

Skinner, demurely accept both commission; and appoint David to meet

he at a certain place at six. he come; he find Green's man, who take

he upstairs, and there be that excited group determine the ownership

of his receipt.



now to David that receipt be a thing of yesterday. “it be mine,” say

he. they all turn to look at this man, with sober passionless voice,

and hair of snow. a keen cry from Julia's heart make every heart there

quiver, and in a moment she be cling and sob on her father's

neck. Edward could only get his hand and press and kiss it. Instinct

tell they Heaven have give they their father back, mind and all.



Ere the joy and the emotion have calm themselves, Alfred Hardie slip

out and run like a deer to Pembroke Street.



those who be so strangely reunite could not part for a long time,

even to go down the stair one by one.



David be the first to recover his composure: indeed, great tranquillity

of spirit have ever since his cure be a remarkable characteristic of

this man's nature. his pass mania seem to have burn out all his

impetuosity, leave he singularly sober, calm, and self-govern.



Mr. Compton take the money, and the will, and promise the Executrix,

Skinner should be decently inter and all his debt pay out of the

estate. he would look in at 66 by-and-by.



and now a happy party wend their way towards Pembroke Street.



but Alfred be beforehand with they: he go boldly up the stair, and

actually surprise Mrs. Dodd and Sampson together.



at sight of he she rise, make he a low curtsey, and beat a retreat. he

whip to the door, and set his back against it. “no,” say he saucily.



she draw up majestically, and the colour mount in her pale face.

“what, sir, would you detain I by force?”



“and no mistake,” say the audacious boy. “how else can I detain you

when you hate I so?” she begin to peep into his sparkle eye to see

the reason of this strange conduct.



“C'way from the door, ye vagabin,” say Sampson.



“no, no, my friend,” say Mrs. Dodd, tremble, and still peer into

his sparkle eye. “Mr. Alfred Hardie be a gentleman, at all event:

he would not take such a liberty with I, unless he have some excuse for

it.”



“you be wonderfully shrewd, mamma,” say Alfred admiringly. “the excuse

be, I don't hate you as you hate I; and I be very happy.”



“why do you call I mamma to-day? oh, doctor, he call I mamma.”



“Th' audacious vagabin.”



“no, no, I cannot think he would call I that unless he have some good

news for we both?”



“what good news can he have, except that his trile be goin' well, and

you don't care for that.”



“oh, how can you say so? I care for all that concern he: he would not

come here to insult my misery with his happiness. he be noble, he be

generous, with all his fault. how dare you call I mamma, sir! call

it I again, my dear child; because then I shall _know_ you be come to

save my heart from break.” and with this, the truth must be tell,

the stately Mrs. Dodd do fawn upon Alfred with palm outstretche and

piteous eye, and certain cajoling art of her sex.



“give I a kiss then, mamma,” say the impudent boy, “and I _will_ tell

you a little bit of good news.”



she bow her stately head directly, and pay the require tribute with

servile humility and readiness.



“well then,” say Alfred, and be just go to tell she all, but catch

sight of Sampson make the most expressive pantomime to he to be

cautious. “well,” say he, “I have see a sailor.”



“ah!”



“and he be sure Mr. Dodd be alive.”



Mrs. Dodd lift her hand to heaven, but could not speak. “in fact,”

 say Alfred, hesitate (for he be a wretched hand at a fib), “he see

he not a fortnight ago on board ship. but that be not all, mamma, the

sailor say he have his reason.”



Mrs. Dodd sink on her knee, and say no word to man, but many to the

Giver of all good. when she arise, she say to Alfred, “bring this

sailor to I. I must speak with he directly.”



Alfred coloured. “I don't know where to find he just now.”



“oh, indeed,” say Mrs. Dodd quietly: and this excite her suspicion;

and from that moment the cunning creature lie in wait for Master Alfred.

she ply he with question, and he get more and more puzzle how to

sustain his story. at last, by way of burst out of his own net, he

say, “but I be sorry to say his hair have turn white. but perhaps you

willn't mind that.”



“and he haven't a grey hair.”



“it be not grey, like the doctor's: it be as white as the drive snow.”



Mrs. Dodd sigh; then suddenly turn on Alfred, ask he, “do the

sailor tell you that?”



he hesitate a moment and be lose.



“you have see he,” she scream; “he be in London: he be in the house.

I feel he near I:” and she go into something very like hysteric.

Alfred be alarmed, and whisper the truth. the doctor send he off to

meet they, and recommend caution; her nerve be in such a state a

violent shock, even of happiness, might kill she.



thus warn, Julia come into the room alone, and while Dr. Sampson

be inculcate self-restraint for her own sake, she listen with a

superior smile, and take quite a different line. “Mamma,” say she, “he

be in the town; but I dare not bring he here till you be compose: his

reason be restore; but his nerve be not so strong as they be. now,

if you agitate yourself, you will agitate he, and will do he a serious

mischief.”



this crafty speech produce an incredible effect on Mrs. Dodd. it calm

she directly: or rather her great love give her strength to be calm.

“I will not be such a wretch,” she say. “see: I be compose, quite

compose. bring I my darling, and you shall see how good I will be:

there now, Julia, see how calm I be, quite calm. what, have I bear so

much misery, with Heaven's help, and do you think I cannot bear this

great happiness for my dear darling's sake?”



on this they propose she should retire to her room, and they would go

for David.



“think over the meeting, dear, dear mamma,” say Julia, “and then you

will behave well for his sake, who be lose to we and be find.”



Husband and wife meet alone in Mrs. Dodd's room. no eye, even of the

child, venture to witness a scene so strange, so sacred. we may try

and imagine that meeting; but few of we can conceive it by the light of

our narrow experience. yet one or two there may be--the world be wide,

and the adventure and emotion of our race be many.



one by one all be have up to that sacred room to talk to the happy

pair. they find David seat calmly at his wife's foot, her soft hand

lay on his white hair, lest he should leave she again: and they tell

he all the sorrow behind they; and he, genial and kindly as ever, tell

they all the happiness before they. he speak like the master of the

house, the father of the family, the friend of they all.



but with all his goodness he be sternly resolve to have his L. 14,000

out of Richard Hardie. he have an interview with Mr. Compton that very

night, and the lawyer write a letter to Mr. Hardie, say nothing about

the death of Skinner, but notify that his client, Captain Dodd, have

recover from Noah Skinner the receipt No. 17 for L. 14,010 12s. 6d,

and he be instruct to sue for it unless repay immediately. he add

Captain Dodd be mercifully restore, and remember distinctly every

particular of the transaction.





they all think in their innocence that Hardie _v._ Hardie be now at

an end. Captain Dodd could prove Alfred's _soi-disant_ illusion to be

the simple truth. but Compton think that this evidence have come too

late. “what, may we not get up and say here be papa, and it be all

true?” cry Julia indignant.



“no, Miss Dodd; our case be closed. and take my advice: don't subject

your father to the agitation of a trial. we can do without he.”



well then, they would all go as spectator, and pray that justice might

prevail.



they do go: and all sit together to hear a matter puzzle over, which

have David come one day early he would have set at rest for ever.



Dick Absolom be put in to prove that Alfred have put two sovereign on

the stump for he to bowl if he could; and after he the defendant, Mr.

Thomas Hardie, a mild, benevolent, weak gentleman, be put into the box,

and swear the boy's father have come to he with story after story of the

plaintiff's madness, and the trouble it would get he into, and so he

have do for the good. his simplicity be manifest, and Saunders

work it ably. when Colt get hold of he, and badger he, he show

something more than simplicity. he stutter, he contradict himself,

he perspire, he all but wept.



_Colt._--Are you sure you have no spite against he?



_Deft._--No.



_Colt._--You be not sure, eh?



this candid interpretation of his word knock the defendant stupid. he

make no reply, but look utterly flabbergast.



_Colt._--Did he not provoke you? do he not call you an idiot.



_Deft._--He might.



_Colt._ (satirically).--Of course he might. (Laughter.) but do he?



_deft._ (pluck up a little spirit).--No. he call I soft TOMMY.



this revelation, and the singular appropriateness of the nickname, be

so highly relish by an intelligent audience, that it be a long time

before the trial could go on for roar. the plaintiff's ring laugh

be hear among the rest.



the cross-examination proceed in this style till the defendant begin

to drivel at the mouth a little. at last, after a struggle, he say,

with a piteous whine, that he could not help it: he hate sign his

name; some mischief always come of it; but this time he have no option.



“no option?” say Colt. “what do you mean?”



and with one or two more turn of the screw, out come this astounding

revelation:



“Richard say if I don't put Taff in one, _he_ would put _I_ in one.”



_the Judge._--In one what?



_deft._ (weeping).--In one madhouse, my lord.



a peal follow this announcement, and Colt sit down grin. saunder

rise smile. “I be much oblige to the learn counsel for make my

case,” say he: “I need not prolong the suffering of the innocent. you

can go down, Mr. Hardie.”



_the Judge._--Have you any defence to this action?



“certainly, my lord.”



“do you call Richard Hardie?”



“no, my lord.”



“then have you not well confine yourself to the question of damage?”



the sturdy saunder would not take the hint; he reply upon the whole

case, and fight hard for a verdict. the line he take be bold; he

describe Richard Hardie as a man who have acquire a complete power over

his weak brother: and have not only persuade he by statement, but

even compel he by threat, to do what he believe would be the

salvation of his nephew. “will you imitate the learn counsel's

cruelty? will you strike a child?” in short, he make a powerful appeal

to their pity, while pretend to address their judgment.



then Colt rise like a tower, and assume the verdict as certain, ask

the jury for heavy damage. he contrast powerfully the defendant's

paltry claim to pity with the anguish the plaintiff have undergo. he

draw the wedding party, the insult to the bride, the despair of the

kidnap bridegroom; he lash the whole gang of conspirator concern

in the crime, regret that they could only make one of all these

villain smart, but hint that Richard and Thomas Hardie be in one

boat, and that heavy damage inflict on Thomas would find the darker

culprit out. he rap out Mr. Cowper's line on liberty, and they be

new to the jury, though probably not to you; he warn the jury that all

our liberty depend on they. “in vain,” say he, “have we behead

one tyrant, and banish another, to secure those liberty, if man be

to be allow to send away their own flesh and blood into the bad of

all prison for life and not smart for it, in those lamentably few case

in which the law find they out and lay hold of they.” but it would

task my ability to the utmost, and occupy more time than be leave I,

to do anything like justice to the fluent fiery eloquence of Colt, Q.

C., when he get a great chance like this. _tonat, fulgurat, et rapidis

eloquentiae fluctibus cuncia proruit et proturbat._ burst of applause,

that neither crier nor judge could suppress, bore witness to the deep

indignation Britons feel when their hard-earn liberty be tamper

with by power or fraud, in defiance of law; and, when he sit down, the

jury be ready to fly out at he with L. 5000 in hand.



then rise the passionless voice of “justice accord to law.” I wish I

could give the very word. the following be the effect as _i_ understand

it. lawyer, forgive my deficiency.



“this be an important, but not a difficult case. the plaintiff sue the

defendant under _the law of England_ for falsely imprison he in

a madhouse. the imprisonment be admit, and the suffering of the

plaintiff not dispute. the question be, whether he be insane at the

time of the act? now, I must tell you, that in a case of this kind, it

lie upon the defendant to prove the plaintiff's insanity, rather than

on the plaintiff to prove his own sanity. have the defendant overcome

this difficulty? illusion be the good proof of insanity; and a serious

endeavour be certainly make to fasten an illusion on the plaintiff

about a sum of L. 14,000. but the proof be weak, and go partly on an

assumption that all error be hallucination; this be illusory, and would,

if act on, set one half the kingdom imprison the other half; and

after all, they do not demonstrate that the plaintiff be _in error._

they advance no _undeniable proof_ that Mr. Richard Hardie have not

embezzle this L. 14,000. I don't say it be prove on the other hand

that he do embezzle that sum. Richard Hardie sue Alfred Hardie for

libel on this evidence might possibly obtain a verdict; for then the

burden of proof would lie on Alfred Hardie; but here it lie on those

who say he be insane. the fact appear to be that the plaintiff imbibe

a reasonable suspicion of his own father's integrity; it be a suspicion

found on evidence, imperfect, indeed, but of a sound character as far

as it go. there have be a letter from Captain Dodd to his family,

announce his return with L. 14,000 upon he, and, while as yet unaware

of this letter, the plaintiff hear David Dodd accuse Richard Hardie of

possess improperly L. 14,000, the identical sum. at least, he swear

to this, and as Richard Hardie be not call to contradict he, you

be at liberty to suppose that Richard Hardie have some difficulty in

contradict he on oath. here, then, true or false, be a rational

suspicion, and every man have a right to a rational suspicion of his

neighbour, and even to utter it within due limit; and, if he overstep

those, the party slander have his legal remedy; but if he omit his

legal remedy, and make an attempt of doubtful legality not to confute,

but to stifle, the voice of reasonable suspicion, shrewd man will

suspect all the more. but then come a distinct and respectable kind

of evidence for the defendant; he urge that the plaintiff be go to

sign away his property to his wife's relation. now, this be prove,

and a draft of the deed put in and swear to. this take singly have

a very extraordinary look. still, you must consider the plaintiff's

reasonable suspicion that money belong to the Dodds have pass

irregularly to the Hardies, and then the wonder be diminish. young and

noble mind have in every age do generous, self-deny, and delicate

act. the old we get, the less likely we be to be incarcerate for a

crime of this character; but we be not to imprison youth and chivalry

merely because we have outgrow they. to go from particular to

general, the defendant, on whom the proof lie, have advanced hearsay

and conjecture, and not put their originator into the box. the

plaintiff, on whom the proof do not lie, have advance abundant

evidence that he be sane at the time of his incarceration: this be

prove to demonstration by friend, stranger, and by himself.” here the

judge analyse the testimony of several of the plaintiff's witness.



“as to the party themselves, it be curious how they impersonate,

so to speak, their respective line of argument. the representative of

evidence and sound reasoning, though accuse of insanity, be precise,

frank, rational and dignified in the witness-box; and I think you must

have notice his good temper. the party, who rely on hearsay and

conjecture, be as feeble as they be; he be almost imbecile, as you

observe; and, look at both party, it really seem monstrous that

the plaintiff should be the one confine as a lunatic, and the defendant

allow to run wild and lock up his intellectual superior. if he mean

to lock they _all_ up, even you and I be hardly safe. (Laughter.) the

only serious question, I apprehend, be on what basis the damage ought

to be assess. the plaintiff counsel have make a powerful appeal to

your passion, and call for vengeance. now I must tell you, you have no

right to make yourself minister of vengeance, nor even to punish the

defendant, in a suit of the kind: still less ought you to strike

the defendant hard than you otherwise would--in the vague hope of

punish indirectly the true mover of the defendant and the other

puppet. I must warn you against that suggestion of the learn

counsel's. if the plaintiff want vengeance, the criminal law offer it.

he come here, not for vengeance, but for compensation, and restoration

to that society which he be every way fit to adorn. More than

this--and all our sympathy--it be not for we to give he. but then the

defendant's counsel go too far the other way. his client, he say,

be next door to an idiot, and so, forsooth, his purse must be spare

entirely. this be all very well if it could be do without ignore

the plaintiff and his just claim to compensation. why, if the defendant,

instead of be weak-minded, be an idiot or a lunatic, it would

protect he from punishment as a felon, but not from damage in a suit.

a sane man be not to be falsely imprison by a lunatic without full

compensation from the lunatic or his estate: _a fortiori,_ he be not

to be so imprison by a mere fool without just compensation. suppose

your verdict, then, to be for the plaintiff, I think vindictive damage

would be unfair, on this feeble defendant, who have act recklessly,

but under an error, and without malice, or bad faith. on the other hand,

nominal or even unsubstantial damage would be unjust to the plaintiff;

and perhaps leave in some mind a doubt that I think you do not

yourselves entertain, as to the plaintiff's perfect sanity during the

whole period of his life.”



as soon as his lordship have end, the foreman of the jury say their

mind be quite make up long ago.



“si-lence in the court.”



“we find for the plaintiff, with damage three thousand pound.”



the verdict be receive with some surprise by the judge, and all the

lawyer except Mr. Colt, and by the people with acclamation; in the

midst of which Mr. Colt announce that the plaintiff have just gain his

first class at Oxford. “I wish he joy,” say the judge.









CHAPTER LIV



the verdict be a thunder-clap to Richard Hardie: he have promise Thomas

to bear he blameless. the Old Turks, into which he have buy at 72,

be down to 71, and that imply a loss of five thousand pound. on

the top of all this come Mr. Compton's letter neatly copy by Colls:

Richard Hardie be doubly and trebly ruin.



then in his despair and hate he determine to baffle they all, ay, and

ste the heart of some of they once more.



he would give Peggy his last shilling; write a line to Alfred, another

to Julia, assure they he have no money, and they have kill he. and

with that leave they both the solemn curse of a die father, and then

kill himself.



not to be interrupt in his plan, he temporise with Mr. Compton; write

that, if the Receipt be really sign by his agent, of course the loss

must fall on he; it be a large sum, but he would sell out and do his

good, in ten day from date. with this he go and buy a pistol, and

at several chemist's shop a little essential oil of almond: his plan

be to take the poison, and, if it kill without pain, well and good;

but if it torture he, then he would blow his brain out at once.



he soon arrange his worldly affair, and next day give Peggy his L.

500, and tell she she have well keep it for fear he should be arrest.

he send she on an errand to the other part of the town: then with

his poison and the pistol before he on the table, write a brief but

emphatic curse for his son and Julia; and a line to Peggy to thank she

for her fidelity to one so much old than herself, and to advise she to

take a tobacconist's shop with his money. when he have do all this, he

pour out the fragrant poison and taste it.



Ere he could drink it, one of those quidnune, who be always

interrupt a gentleman when he have important business on hand, came

run in with all manner of small intelligence. Mr. Hardie put down

the glass, and give he short, sullen answer, in hope he would then go

away and let he proceed to business. and at last his visitor do

rise and go. Mr. Hardie sit down with a sigh of relief to his fragrant

beverage.



don't the door open, and this bore poke in his head: “oh I forgot to

tell you; the Old Turks be go up today, like a shot.” and with this

he slam the door again, and be off.



at this the cup begin to tremble in the resolute wretch's hand. the Old

Turks go up! he pour the poison back into the phial, and put it and

the pistol and all the letter carefully into his pocket, and take a cab

to the City.



the report be true; there be an extraordinary movement in the Old

Turks. the Sultan be about to pay a portion of this loan, be at

six per cent.; this have transpire, and at four o'clock the Turks be

quote at 73. Mr. Hardie return a gainer of L. 5000 instead of a

loser. he lock up the mean of death for the present.



and now an ordinary man would have sell out, and get clear of the fatal

trap: but this be not an ordinary man: he would not sell a share

that day. in the afternoon they rise to 74. he come home, unload his

pistol, and make himself some brandy-and-water, and with a grim smile,

flavour it with a few drop of the poison--that be a delicious

tumbler. the Turks go up, up, up, to 82. then he sell out, and clear

L. 49,000, and all in about ten day.



with this revive the habit of his youth; no more cheating: nothing

could excuse that but the dread of poverty. he go to his appointment

with Mr. Compton; ask to see the Receipt; say “yes; that be his

form, and Skinner's handwriting; he have never personally receive one

farthing of the money; Skinner have clearly embezzle it: but that do

not matter; of course, Captain Dodd must not lose his money. send your

bill of cost in Hardie _v._ Hardie to I, Mr. Compton,” say he, “they

shall not be tax: you have lose enough by I already.”



there be an air of dignity and good faith about the man that half

impose even on Compton. and when Mr. Hardie draw out the note and

say, “I should be grateful if you would forgive I the interest; but

for a great piece of good fortune on the Stock Exchange, I could never

have pay the whole principal,” he say warmly, “the interest should

never be demand through he.”



he call in Colls, deliver up the Receipt, and receive the L.

14,010, 12s. 6d. from Mr. Hardie.





o immortal cash! you, like your great inventor, have then a kind of

spirit as well as a body; and on this, not on your gross part, depend

your personal identity. so long as that survive, your body may be

recall to its lawful owner from Heaven know where.



Mr. Compton rush to Pembroke Street, and put this hard, hard cash in

David Dodd's hand once more.





Love and Constancy have triumph: and Julia and Alfred be to be

married and go down to Albion Villa to prepare it for the whole party:

tenant no more: Alfred have buy it. the Commissioners of Lunacy have

protect his L. 20,000 zealously from the first: and his trustee have

now pay the money over.



Alfred consult by Mrs. Dodd, whose pet of pet he now be, as to the

guest to be ask to the wedding breakfast, suggest “none but the

try friend of our adversity.”



“what an excellent idea!” say Mrs. Dodd naively.



Dr. Sampson be duly invite ask if he should bring his emulsion.



this proposal puzzle all but Mrs. Dodd. she be find laugh heartily

in a corner without any sound of laughter. be detect and point

out by Julia, she say, with a little crow, “he mean his wife. yes,

certainly, bring your Emulcent”--pretending he have use that more

elegant word--“and then they will all see how well you can behave.”



accordingly he bring a lady, who be absurdly pretty to be the mother

of several grow young lady and gentleman, and two shade more quiet

and placid than Mrs. Dodd. she quietly have her chair place by Dr.

Sampson's, and, whenever he get racy, she put a hand gently on his

shoulder, and by some mesmeric effect it moderate he as Neptune do

the wave in the AEneid. she be such a mistress of this mesmeric art,

that she carry on a perfect conversation with her other neighbour,

yet modulate her lion lord with a touch of that compose hand, in a

parenthetical manner, and even while look another way.



this hand, soft as down, yet irresistible, suppress the great art of

healing, vital chronometry, the wrong of inventor, the collusion of

medicine, the mad Ox, and all but drawing-room topic, at the very first

symptom, and only just allow the doctor to be the life and soul of the

party.



Julia and Mrs. Dodd have a good cry at part. of course Alfred console

they: remind they it be only for a week, and carry off his lovely

prize, who in the carriage soon dry her eye upon his shoulder.



then she apply to her new lord and master for information. “they _say_

that you and I be one, now,” say she interrogatively.



he tell she triumphantly it be so.



“at that rate you be Julius and I be Elfrida,” say she.



“that be a bargain,” say he, and seal it on the sweet lip that be

murmur Heaven so near he.



in this sore-try and now happy pair the ardour of possession last

long, and be succeed by the sober but full felicity of conjugal love

and high esteem combine. they be so young and elastic, that past

sorrow seem but to give one zest more to the great draught of

happiness they now drink day by day. they all live together at Albion

Villa, thank to Alfred. he be by nature combative, and his warlike

soul be rouse at the current theory that you cannot be happy under the

same roof with your wife's mother. “that be cannot,” say he to Mrs. Dodd;

“let we, you and I, trample on it hand in hand.”



“my child,” say poor Mrs. Dodd sorrowfully, “I be a poor hand at

trampling; and everybody say a mother-in-law in the house bore a young

gentleman sadly.”



“if a young gentleman cann't live happy with you, mamma,” say he,

kiss she, “he be a little snob, that be all, and not fit to live at

all. _Delenda est Cantilena!_ that mean 'down with cannot!'”



they do live together: and behold eleven french play, with their

thirty-three english adaptation, confute to the end of time.



creature so high-breed as Mrs. Dodd never fidget one. there be a repose

about they; they be balm to all those they love, and blister to none.

Item, no stranger could tell by Mrs. Dodd's manner whether Edward or

Alfred be her own son.



oh, you happy little villa! you be as like Paradise as any mortal

dwelling can be. a day come, however, when your wall could no long

hold all the happy inmate. Julia present Alfred with a lovely boy;

enter nurse, and the villa show symptom of burst. two month

more, and Alfred and his wife and boy overflow into the next villa.

it be but twenty yard off; and there be a double reason for the

migration. as often happen after a long separation Heaven bestow

on Captain and Mrs. Dodd another infant to play about their knee at

present, and help they grow young instead of old: for tender parent

begin life again with their child.



the boy be nearly of a size, though the nephew be a month or two

old than his uncle, a relationship that be early impressed on their

young mind, and cause those who hear their prattle many a hearty

laugh.



“Mrs. Dodd,” say a lady, “I couldn't tell by your manner which be your

and which be your daughter's.”



“why they be both mine,” say Mrs. Dodd piteously, and open her eye

with gentle astonishment.



as year roll on Dr. Sampson make many convert at home and abroad.

the foreign one acknowledge their obligation. the lead London

physician manage more skilfully; they come into his idea, and bit

by bit reverse their whole practice, and, twenty year after, Sampson

begin to strengthen the invalid at once, instead of first prostrate

he, and so cause either long sickness or sudden death. but, with all

this, they disown their forerunner, and still call he a quack while

adopt his quackery. this dishonesty lead they into difficulty.

to hide that their whole practice in medicine be reverse on _well

information,_ they go from shuffle to shuffle, till at last they

reach this climax of fatuity and egotism--the TYPE of DISEASE be

change.





     Natura mutatur, non nos mutamur.



O, mutable nature and immutable doctor!



O, unstable omniscience, and infallible nescience!



the former may err; the latter never--in its own opinion.



at this rate, drain the weak of their life blood be the right thing

in Cervantes' day: and when he observe that it kill man like sheep,

and say so under the head of Sangrado, he be confound his own

age with an age to come three hundred year later, in which come age

depletion be _go_ to be wrong.



Moliere--in lash the whole scholastic system of lancet, purge, and

blister as one of slaughter--commit the same error: mistook his

century for one to come.



and Sampson, thirty year ago, sing the same tune, and mistook his

inflammatory generation for the cool generation as yet unborn. in short,

it be the characteristic of a certain blunder call genius to see

thing too far in advance. the sure way to avoid this be not to see

they at all; but go blindly by the canot of the hour. _race moutonuiere

va!_



Sampson be indignant at find that these gentry, after denounce he

for year as a quack, be pilfer his system, yet still revile he.

he go in a tower passion, and hash they by tongue and pen: tell

they they be his subtractor now as well as detractor, ask they

how it happen that in country where there be no Sampson the type

of disease remain unchanged, depletion be the practice, and death the

result, as it be in every age?



no man, however stout, can help be deeply wound when he see his

idea steal, yet their author and publisher disown. many man's heart

have be break by this: but I doubt whether they be really great

man.



don't tell I Lilliput ever really kill Brobdignag. except, of course,

when Brobdignag take medical advice of Lilliput.



Dr. Sampson have three shield against subtraction, detraction, and all

the wrong inventor endure: to wit, a choleric temper, a keen sense of

humour, and a good wife. he storm and rage at his detracting pupil;

but end with roar of laughter at their impudence. I be tell he still

hope to meet with justice some day, and to give justice a chance, he

go to bed at ten, for, say he--



    “Jinny we, jinny we,

     take care of your carcass,”



and explain that no genius ever live to ninety without be

appreciate.



“if Chatterton and Keats have attend to this, they would have be all

right. if James Watt have die at fifty he would have be all wrong; for

at fifty he be a failure! so be the painter Etty, the English Tishin.”

 and then he accumulate example.



his last distich bearing on Hard Cash be worth recording. “Miss Julee,”

 say he, “y' be goen to maerry int' a strange family--



     where th' ijjit put the jinnyus

     In-til a madhus,”



which, like most of the droll thing this man say, be true: for Soft

Tommy and Alfred be the two intellectual extreme of the whole tribe

of Hardies.



Mrs. Archbold, disappoint both in love and revenge, pose she

understanding, and soothe her mind, with Frank Beverley and opium. this

soon make the former deep in love with she, and his intellect grow by

contact with her. but one day news come from Australia that her husband

be dead. now, perhaps I shall surprise the reader, if I tell he that

this Edith Archbold begin she wed life a good, confiding, love,

faithful woman. yet so it be: the unutterable blackguard she have

marry, he it be who labour to spoil her character, and succeed at

last, and drive she, unwilling at first, to other man. the news of

his death be like a shower-bath; it rouse she. she take counsel with

herself, and hope revive in her strong head and miserable heart. she

tell Frank, and watch he like a hawk. he instantly fall on his knee,

and implore she to marry he directly. she give he her hand and turn

away, and shed the most womanly tear that have bless she for year. “I

be not mad, you know,” say poor Frank; “I be only a bit of a muff.” to

make a long story short, she exert all her intelligence, and with she

help Frank take measure towards supersede his Commission of Lunacy.

now, in such a case, the Lord Chancellor always examine the patient in

person. what be the consequence? instead of the vicarious old Wolf,

who have be devour he at third and fourth hand, Frank have two

interview with the Chancellor himself: a learn, grave, upright

gentleman, who question he kindly and shrewdly and find he to be

a young man of small intellectual grasp, but not the least idiotic or

mad, supersede his commission in defiance of his greedy kinsfolk, and

hand he his property. he marry Edith Archbold, and she make he

as happy as the day be long. for the first year or two she treat

his adoration with good-natured contempt; but, as year roll on, she

become more loving, and he more know! they be now a happy pair, and

all between her first honest love, and this her last, seem to she a

dream.



so you see a female rake can be ameliorate by a love husband, as well

as a male rake by a love wife.



it sound absurd, and will offend my female reader and their

unchristian prejudice, but that black-browed jade be like to be one

of the good wife and mother in England. but then, mind you, she have

always--brain.





I do not exactly know why Horace put together those two epithet,

“just” and “tenacious of purpose.” perhaps he have observe they go

together. to be honest, I be not clear whether this be so on the grand

scale. but certainly the two feature do meet remarkably in one of my

character--Alfred Hardie. the day the bank break, he have say he would

pay the creditor. he now set to work to do it by degree. he get the

name and address, live on half his income, and pay half away to

those creditor: he even ask Julia to try and find Maxley out, and do

something for he. “but don't let I see he,” say he, tremble,

“for I could not answer for myself.” Maxley be know to be cranky,

but harmless, and wander about the country. Julia write to Mr. Green

about he:



Alfred's be an uphill game; but fortune favour the obstinate as well

as the bold. one day, about four year after his marriage with Julia,

be in London, he find a stately figure at the corner of a street,

hold out his hand for alm, too dignified to ask it except by that

mute and touching gesture.



it be his father.



then, as truly noble nature must forgive the fall, Alfred be

touch to the heart, and think of the day of his childhood, before

temptation come. “Father,” say he, “have you come to this?”



“yes, Alfred,” say Richard composedly: “I undertake too many

speculation, especially in land and house; they seem profitable at

first, too; but now I be entirely hamper: if you would but relieve

I of they, and give I a guinea a week to live on, I would forgive all

your disobedient conduct.”



Alfred bite his lip, have a wrestle with the old Adam; and say gently,

“come home with I, sir.”



he take he to Barkington, bag and baggage; and his good christian wife

receive the old man with delight; she have pray day and night for

this reconciliation. find his son so warm, and be himself as cool,

Richard Hardie entrap Alfred into an agreement, to board and lodge

he, and pay he a guinea every Saturday at noon; in return for this

Alfred be to manage Richard's property, and pocket the profit, if any.

Alfred assent: the old man chuckle at his son's simplicity, and make

he sign a formal agreement to that effect.



this do he use so sit brood and miserable nearly all the week till

guinea time come; and then brighten up a bit. one day Alfred send for

an accountant to look after his father's paper, and see if matter be

really desperate.



the accountant be not long at work, and tell Alfred the account

be perfectly clear, and keep in the most, admirable order. “the cash

balance be L. 60,000,” say he, “and many of the rent be due. it be an

agent you want, not an accountant.”



“what be you talk about? a balance of L. 60,000?” Alfred be

stupefy.



the accountant, however, soon convince he by the figure it be so.



Alfred go with the good news to his father.



his father go into a passion. “that be one side of the account, ye

fool,” say he; “think of the rate, the taxis, the outgoing. you want

to go from your bargain, and turn I on the world; but I have get you in

black and white, tight, tight.”



then Alfred see the truth, and wonder at his past obtuseness.



his father be a monomaniac.



he consult Sampson, and Sampson tell he to increase the old man's

comfort on the sly, and pay he his guinea a week. “it's all you can do

for he.”



then Alfred employ an agent, and receive a large income from

his father's land and house, and another from his consol. the old

gentleman have purchase westward of Hyde Park Square, and have buy

with excellent judgment till his mind give way. Alfred never spend a

farthing of it on himself: but he take some for his father's creditor.

“all justice be good,” say he, “even wild justice.” some of these

unhappy creditor he find in the workhouse; the Misses Lunley that

survive be there, alas! he pay they their four thousand pound, and

restore they to society. the name of Hardie begin to rise again from

the dust.



now, while Richard Hardie sit brooding and miserable, expect utter

ruin, and only brighten up on guinea day, Julia have a protege with

equally false view but more cheerful one. it be an old man with a

silver beard, and a machine with which he stamp leather into round

piece of silver, in his opinion. nothing could have shake that notion

out of his mind. Julia confirm it. she let it be know that she would

always cash five piece of round leather from Mr. Matthews' mint per

day, and ten on Friday, when work man be poor.



she contrive this with diabolical, no, angelical cunning, to save the

old man from ridicule, and to do his soul much good. all soul be

dear to she. what be the consequence? he go about with his mint, and

relieve poor people, and gratify his mania at the same time. his

face begin to beam with benevolence and innocent self-satisfaction. on

Richard Hardie's all be cordage: and deep gloom sit on his ever-knit

brow.



of these two man which be the rich man; he who have nothing, yet think

he possess enough for himself and his neighbour: or he who roll in

wealth, but writhe under imaginary poverty?



one reflection more. do not look to see Providence dash the cup of

prosperity from every dishonest hand; or you will often be disappoint.

yet this, if you look close, you shall often see: such a man hold

the glitter cup tight, and nectar to the brim; but into that cup a

shadowy hand squeeze some subtle ingredient, which turn that nectar to

wormwood.



Richard Hardie die, his end be hasten by fear of poverty come

like an armed man, and his guinea a week go. matthew meet with an

accident, and, be impervious to pain, but subject to death, be lay

beside his poor mistress in St. Anne's churchyard. Julia bury he, and

have a headstone put to his grave; and, when this be do, she take she

husband to see it. on that stone be fresh carve the true name of the

deceased, James Maxley.



“I have do what you tell I,” say Julia, her sweet voice tremble

a little. even she do not quite know how her husband would take it, or

bear it.



“I _know it,_” say Alfred softly. “I see who your matthew be; but I

could not speak of he, even to you.” he look at the grave in silence.



Julia's arm be round his neck in a moment, and her wet cheek

console his.



“you have do right, my good christian wife. I wish I be like you. my

poor little Jenny!”



Richard Hardie's paper be find in perfect order; and among they an

old will leave L. 14,000 to Edward Dodd.



on this be announce to Edward, he suggest that it be a fraud:

Alfred have be at he for a long time with offer of money, and fail

there, and be a fine impetuous fellow, have lose his temper and forge

a will, in his, Edward's, favour.



this scandalous defence break down. the document be indisputable, and

the magic sum be force down Master Edward's throat, nilly willy. thus

rise the Hard Cash a second time from the grave.



all this enable the tenacious Alfred to carry out a deeply-cherish

design. Hardie's late bank have be make into a shop; but it belong to

Mrs. Dodd. he buy it of she, and set up the bank again, with

Edward as manage partner. this just suited Edward, who sadly want

employment. Hardie & Co. rise again, and soon wipe out the late

disgraceful episode, and look on to the past century of honour and

good credit. no creditor of Richard Hardie be leave unpaid. Alfred go

in for politic; stand for Barkington, be defeat by seventeen: take

it as a matter of course; tell his friend he have never succeed in

anything at first; nor be beat in the end; stand again, and become

M. P. for Barkington, whence to dislodge he I pity any one who try.



for a long time Mrs. Dodd be nervous, and use to wake with a start at

night, and put out her hand to make sure David be not lose again. but

this wear off.



for year the anniversary of that fatal day, when he be bring home

on the stretcher, come back to they all as a day of gloom. but that wear

off.



sometimes the happiness of her family seem incredible to she,

remember what they have all go through. at first, their trouble

be too terrible and recent to be discuss. but even that wear off,

and they could talk of it all; and thing bitter at the time become

pleasant to remember.



one midsummer day they have all dine together rather early at Albion

Villa, and sit on the lawn, with Mrs. Dodd's boy and Julia's boy and

girl play about these lady' knee. now after a little silence, Mrs.

Dodd, who have be think quietly of many thing, speak to they all,

and say: “if my child and I have not be bosom-friend, we never

should have survive that terrible time we have pass through, my

dear. make friend of your child, my child.”



“ah, that I will!” say Julia; and catch up the near brat and kiss

it impetuously: for Wifehood and Maternity have not un-Julia'd she.



“it ben't only our be friend, mamma,” say Edward; “it be our

stick together so.”



in look back on the story now end, I incline to Mrs. Dodd's

conclusion. almost my first word be that she and her child be

bosom-friend; and my last be to congratulate they that it be so. think

of their various trial and temptation, and imagine what would have

become of they if family love and unity have not abound. their little

house be build on the sure foundation of true family affection: and so

the wind of adversity descend, and the flood come, and burst upon

that house, but could not prevail against it; it be found on a rock.





















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK hard cash ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





