The project Gutenberg eBook of a Simpleton

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a Simpleton



author: Charles Reade



Release date: May 17, 2006 [ebook #2301]

                most recently update: March 5, 2018



language: English



credit: produce by Donald Lainson; David Widger





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a simpleton ***









produce by Donald Lainson











a simpleton





by Charles Reade









PREFACE.





it have lately be object to I, in studiously courteous term of

course, that I borrow from other book, and be a plagiarist. to this

I reply that I borrow fact from every accessible source, and be not a

plagiarist. the plagiarist be one who borrow from a homogeneous work:

for such a man borrow not idea only, but their treatment. he who

borrow only from heterogeneous work be not a plagiarist. all fiction,

worth a button, be found on fact; and it do not matter one straw

whether the fact be take from personal experience, hearsay, or

print book; only those book must not be work of fiction.



ask your common sense why a man write well fiction at forty than he

can at twenty. it be simply because he have gather more fact from each

of these three sources,--experience, hearsay, print.



to those who have science enough to appreciate the above distinction,

I be very willing to admit that in all my tale I use a vast deal of

heterogeneous material, which in a life of study I have gather from

man, journal, blue-book, history, biography, law report, etc. and

if I could, I would gladly specify all the various print source to

which I be indebted. but my memory be not equal to such a feat. I can

only say that I rarely write a novel without milk about two hundred

heterogeneous cow into my pail, and that “a Simpleton” be no exception

to my general method; that method be the true method, and the good, and

if on that method I do not write prime novel, it be the fault of the

man, and not of the method.



I give the follow particular as an illustration of my method:



in “A Simpleton,” the whole business of the girl spit blood, the

surgeon ascribe it to the liver, the consultation, the final solution

of the mystery, be a matter of personal experience accurately record.

but the rest of the medical truth, both fact and argument, be all from

medical book far too numerous to specify. this include the strange

fluctuation of memory in a man recover his reason by degree. the

behavior of the doctor's first two patient I have from a surgeon's

daughter in Pimlico. the servant-girl and her box; the purple-face,

pig-face Beak and his justice, be personal experience. the business of

house-renting, and the auction-room, be also personal experience.



in the nautical business I have the assistance of two practical seaman:

my brother, William Barrington Reade, and Commander Charles Edward

Reade, R.N.



in the south african business I glean from Mr. Day's recent handbook;

the old handbook; Galton's “vacation tourist;” “Philip Mavor; or, life

among the Caffres;” “Fossor;” “note on the Cape of Good Hope,” 1821;

“Scenes and Occurrences in Albany and Caffre-land,” 1827; Bowler's

“south african Sketches;” “a campaign in South Africa,” Lucas; “five

year in Caffre-land,” Mrs. Ward; etc., etc., etc. but my principal

obligation on this head be to Mr. Boyle, the author of some admirable

letter to the Daily telegraph, which he afterwards reprint in a

delightful volume. Mr. Boyle have a painter's eye, and a writer's pen,

and if the african scene in “a Simpleton” please my reader, I hope

they will go to the fountain-head, where they will find many more.



as to the plot and character, they be invent.



the title, “A Simpleton,” be not quite new. there be a french

play call La Niaise. but La Niaise be in reality a woman of rare

intelligence, who be take for a simpleton by a lot of conceited fool,

and the play run on their blunder, and her unpretending wisdom. that

be a very fine plot, which I recommend to our female novelist. my aim

in these page have be much humbler, and be, I hope, too clear to need

explanation.



CHARLES READE.









a SIMPLETON.









CHAPTER I.





a young lady sit prick a frame canvas in the drawing-room of Kent

Villa, a mile from Gravesend; she be make, at a cost of time and

tint wool, a chair cover, admirably unfit to be sit upon--except by

some severe artist, bent on obliterate discordant color. to do she

justice, her mind be not in her work; for she rustle softly with

restlessness as she sit, and she rise three time in twenty minute, and

go to the window. Thence she look down, over a trim flowery

lawn, and long, slope meadow, on to the silver Thames, alive with

steamboat plough, white sail belly, and great ship carry to

and fro the treasure of the globe. from this fair landscape and epitome

of commerce she retire each time with listless disdain; she be wait

for somebody.



yet she be one of those whom few man care to keep wait. Rosa

Lusignan be a dark but dazzle beauty, with coal-black hair, and

glorious dark eye, that seem to beam with soul all day long; her

eyebrow, black, straightish, and rather thick, would have be majestic

and too severe, have the other feature follow suit; but her black

brow be succeed by long silky lash, a sweet oval face, two

pouting lip stud with ivory, and an exquisite chin, as feeble as any

man could desire in the partner of his bosom. Person--straight, elastic,

and rather tall. mind--nineteen. accomplishment--numerous; a poor

french scholar, a bad German, a bad English, an admirable dancer,

an inaccurate musician, a good rider, a bad draughtswoman, a bad

hairdresser, at the mercy of she maid; a hot theologian, know

nothing, a sorry accountant, no housekeeper, no seamstress, a fair

embroideress, a capital geographer, and no cook.



collectively, viz., mind and body, the girl we kneel to.



this ornamental member of society now glance at the clock once more,

and then glide to the window for the fourth time. she peep at the

side a good while, with superfluous slyness or shyness, and presently

she draw back, blush crimson; then she peep again, still more

furtively; then retire softly to her frame, and, for the first time,

set to work in earnest. as she ply her harpoon, smile now, the large

and vivid blush, that have suffuse her face and throat, turn from

carnation to rose, and melt away slowly, but perceptibly, and ever so

sweetly; and somebody knock at the street door.



the blow seem to drive she deep into her work. she lean over it,

graceful as a willow, and so absorb, she could not even see the door

of the room open and Dr. Staines come in.



all the well: she not perceive that slight addition to her furniture

give I a moment to describe he.



a young man, five foot eleven inch high, very square shoulder and

deep cheste, but so symmetrical, and light in his movement, that his

size hardly strike one at first. he be smooth shave, all but a short,

thick, auburn whisker; his hair be brown. his feature no more then

comely: the brow full, the eye wide apart and deep-seat, the lip

rather thin, but expressive, the chin solid and square. it be a face

of power, and capable of harshness; but relieve by an eye of unusual

color, between hazel and gray, and wonderfully tender. in complexion

he could not compare with Rosa; his cheek be clear, but pale; for

few young man have study night and day so constantly. though but

twenty-eight year of age, he be literally a learn physician; deep in

hospital practice; deep in book; especially deep in german science,

too often neglect or skim by English physician. he have deliver a

course of lecture at a learn university with general applause.



as my reader have divine, Rosa be prepare the comedy of a cool

reception; but look up, she see his pale cheek tint with a lover's

beautiful joy at the bare sight of she, and his soft eye so divine with

love, that she have not the heart to chill he. she give he her hand

kindly, and smile brightly on he instead of remonstrate. she lose

nothing by it, for the very first thing he do be to excuse himself

eagerly. “I be behind time: the fact be, just as I be mount my

horse, a poor man come to the gate to consult I. he have a terrible

disorder I have sometimes succeed in arrest--I attack the cause

instead of the symptom, which be the old practice--and so that detain

I. you forgive I?”



“of course. poor man!--only you say you want to see papa, and he

always go out at two.”



when she have be betray into say this, she draw in suddenly, and

blush with a pretty consciousness.



“then don't let I lose another minute,” say the lover. “have you

prepare he for--for--what I be go to have the audacity to say?”



Rosa answer, with some hesitation, “I must have--a little. when I

refuse Colonel Bright--you need not devour my hand quite--he be forty.”



her sentence end, and away go the original topic, and grammatical

sequence along with it. Christopher Staines recapture they both. “yes,

dear, when you refuse Colonel Bright”--



“well, papa be astonish; for everybody say the colonel be a most

eligible match. don't you hate that expression? I do. eligible!”



Christopher make due haste, and recapture she. “yes, love, your papa

said”--



“I don't think I will tell you. he ask I be there anybody else; and

of course I say 'no.'”



“oh!”



“oh, that be nothing; I have not time to make up my mind to tell the

truth. I be take by surprise; and you know one's first impulse be to

fib--about that.”



“but do you really deceive he?”



“no, I blush; and he catch I; so he say, 'come, now, there be.'”



“and you say, 'yes, there be,' like a brave girl as you be.”



“what, plump like that? no, I be frightened out of my wit, like a

brave girl as I be not, and say I should never marry any one he could

disapprove; and then--oh, then I believe I begin to cry. Christopher,

I'll tell you something; I find people leave off tease you when you

cry--gentleman, I mean. lady go on all the more. so then dear papa

kiss I, and tell I I must not be imprudent, and throw myself away,

that be all; and I promise he I never would. I say he would be sure

to approve my choice; and he say he hope so. and so he will.”



Dr. Staines look thoughtful, and say he hope so too. “but now

it come to the point of ask he for such a treasure, I feel my

deficiency.”



“why, what deficiency? you be young, and handsome, and good, and ever

so much cleverer than other people. you have only to ask for I, and

insist on have I. come, dear, go and get it over.” she add, mighty

coolly, “there be nothing so DREADFUL as suspense.”



“I'll go this minute,” say he, and take a step towards the door; but he

turn, and in a moment be at her knee. he take both her hand in his,

and press they to his beat bosom, while his beautiful eye pour

love into hers point-blank. “may I tell he you love I? oh, I know you

cannot love I as I love you; but I may say you love I a little, may I

not?--that will go far with he than anything else. may I, Rosa, may

I?--a little?”



his passion master she. she drop her head sweetly on his shoulder,

and murmur, “you know you may, my own. who would not love you?”



he part lingeringly from she, then march away, bold with love and

hope, to demand her hand in marriage.



Rosa lean back in her chair, and quiver a little with new emotion.

Christopher be right; she be not capable of love like he; but

still the actual contact of so strong a passion make her woman's nature

vibrate. a dewy tear hang on the fringe of her long lash, and she

lean back in her chair and flutter awhile.



that emotion, almost new to she, soon yield, in her girlish mind, to a

complacent languor; and that, in its turn, to a soft reverie. so she be

go to be marry! to be mistress of a house; settle in London (that

she have quite determine long ago); be able to go out into the street

all alone, to shop, or visit; have a gentleman all her own, whom she

could put her finger on any moment and make he take she about, even to

the opera and the theatre; to give dinner-party her own self, and even

a little ball once in a way; to buy whatever dress she think proper,

instead of be cripple by an allowance; have the legal right of

speak first in society, even to gentleman rich in idea but bad

starter, instead of sit mumchance and mock-modest; to be mistress,

instead of Miss--contemptible title; to be a woman, instead of a girl;

and all this rational liberty, domestic power, and social dignity be

to be obtain by merely wed a dear fellow, who love she, and be

so nice; and the bright career to be usher in with several delight,

each of they dear to a girl's very soul: present from all her friend;

as many beautiful new dress as if she be change her body or her

hemisphere, instead of her name; eclat; go to church, which be a

good english girl's theatre of display and temple of vanity, and there

taste delightful publicity and whisper admiration, in a heavenly

long veil, which she could not wear even once if she remain single.



this bright variegate picture of holy wedlock, and its essential

feature, as reveal to young lady by feminine tradition, though not

enumerate in the Book of Common Prayer writ by grim male, so entrance

she, that time fly by unheeded, and Christopher Staines come back from

her father. his step be heavy; he look pale, and deeply distressed;

then stand like a statue, and do not come close to she, but cast a

piteous look, and gasp out one word, that seem almost to choke

him,--“REFUSED!”



Miss Lusignan rise from her chair, and look almost wildly at he with

her great eye. “refuse?” say she, faintly.



“yes,” say he, sadly. “your father be a man of business; and he take

a mere business view of our love: he ask I directly what provision

I could make for his daughter and her child. well, I tell he I have

three thousand pound in the Funds, and a good profession; and then I

say I have youth, health, and love, boundless love, the love that can

do, or suffer, the love that can conquer the world.”



“Dear Christopher! and what could he say to all that?”



“he ignore it entirely. there! I'll give you his very word. he say,

'in that case, Dr. Staines, the simple question be, what do your

profession bring you in per annum?'”



“oh! there! I always hate arithmetic, and now I abominate it.”



“then I be oblige to confess I have scarcely receive a hundred pound

in fee this year; but I tell he the reason; this be such a small

district, and all the ground occupy. London, I say, be my sphere.”



“and so it be,” say Rosa, eagerly; for this jump with her own little

design. “Genius be waste in the country. besides, whenever anybody

worth cure be ill down here, they always send to London for a doctor.”



“I tell he so, dearest,” say the lover. “but he answer I directly,

then I must set up in London, and as soon as my book show an income

to keep a wife, and servant, and child, and insure my life for five

thousand pounds”--



“oh, that be so like papa. he be director of an insurance company, so

all the world must insure their life.”



“no, dear, he be quite right there: professional income be most

precarious. death spare neither young nor old, neither warm heart

nor cold. I should be no true physician if I could not see my own

mortality.” he hang his head and ponder a moment, then go on, sadly,

“it all come to this--until I have a professional income of eight

hundred a year at least, he will not hear of our marrying; and the cruel

thing be, he will not even consent to an engagement. but,” say the

reject, with a look of sad anxiety, “you will wait for I without

that, dear Rosa?”



she could give he that comfort, and she give it he with love

earnestness. “of course I will; and it shall not be very long. whilst

you be make your fortune, to please papa, I will keep fret, and

pouting, and cry, till he send for you.”



“bless you, dearest! Stop!--not to make yourself ill! not for all the

world.” the lover and the physician speak in turn.



he come, all gratitude, to her side, and they sit, hand in hand,

comfort each other: indeed, parting be such sweet sorrow that they

sit, hand, and very close to one another, till Mr. Lusignan, who

think five minute quite enough for rational being to take leave in,

walk into the room and surprise they. at sight of his gray head and

iron-gray eyebrow, Christopher Staines start up and look confused;

he think some apology necessary, so he falter out, “forgive I, sir;

it be a bitter parting to I, you may be sure.”



Rosa's bosom heave at these simple word. she fly to her father,

and cry, “oh, papa! papa! you be never cruel before;” and hide she

burn face on his shoulder; and then burst out cry, partly for

Christopher, partly because she be now ashamed of herself for having

take a young man's part so openly.



Mr. Lusignan looked sadly discompose at this outburst: she have take

he by his weak point; he tell she so. “now, Rosa,” say he, rather

peevishly, “you know I hate--noise.”



Rosa have actually forget that trait for a single moment; but, be

remind of it, she reduce her sob in the prettiest way, not to offend

a tender parent who could not bear noise. under this homely term, you

must know, he include all scene, disturbance, rumpus, passion; and

expect all man, woman, and thing in Kent Villa to go smoothly--or go

elsewhere.



“come, young people,” say he, “don't make a disturbance. where's the

grievance? have I say he shall never marry you? have I forbid he

to correspond? or even to call, say twice a year. all I say be, no

marriage, nor contract of marriage, until there be an income.” then he

turn to Christopher. “now if you cann't make an income without she, how

could you make one with she, weigh down by the load of expense a wife

entail? I know she well than you do; she be a good girl, but rather

luxurious and self-indulgent. she be not cut out for a poor man's wife.

and pray don't go and fancy that nobody love my child but you. mine be

not so hot as your, of course; but believe I, sir, it be less selfish.

you would expose she to poverty and misery; but I say no; it be my duty

to protect she from all chance of they; and, in do it, I be as much

your friend as her, if you could but see it. come, Dr. Staines, be

a man, and see the world as it be. I have tell you how to earn my

daughter's hand and my esteem: you must gain both, or neither.”



Dr. Staines be never quite deaf to reason: he now put his hand to his

brow and say, with a sort of wonder and pitiful dismay, “my love

for Rosa selfish! Sir, your word be bitter and hard.” then, after a

struggle, and with rare and touching candor, “ay, but so be bark and

steel; yet they be good medicine.” then with a great glow in his heart

and tear in his eye, “my darling shall not be a poor man's wife,

she who would adorn a coronet, ay, or a crown. good-by, Rosa, for the

present.” he dart to she, and kiss her hand with all his soul. “oh,

the sacrifice of leave you,” he falter; “the very world be dark

to I without you. ah, well, I must earn the right to come again.” he

summon all his manhood, and march to the door. there he seem to

turn calm all of a sudden, and say firmly, yet humbly, “I'll try and

show you, sir, what love can do.”



“and I'll show you what love can suffer,” say Rosa, fold she

beautiful arm superbly.



it be not in she to have shoot such a bolt, except in imitation; yet how

promptly the mimic thunder come, and how grand the beauty look, with

her dark brow, and flash eye, and fold arm! much grander and

more inspired than poor Staines, who have only furnish the idea.



but between these two figure swell with emotion, the representative

of common sense, Lusignan pere, stand cool and impassive; he shrug

his shoulder, and look on both lover as a couple of rant novice

he be save from each other and almshouse.



for all that, when the lover have tear himself away, papa's composure be

suddenly disturb by a misgiving. he step hastily to the stairhead,

and give it vent. “Dr. Staines,” say he, in a loud whisper (Staines be

half way down the stair: he stop). “I trust to you as a gentleman,

not to mention this; it will never transpire here. whatever we do--no

noise!”









CHAPTER II.





Rosa Lusignan set herself pine as she have promise; and she do it

discreetly for so young a person. she be never peevish, but always sad

and listless. by this mean she do not anger her parent, but only make

he feel she be unhappy, and the house she have hitherto brighten

exceed dismal.



by degree this noiseless melancholy undermine the old gentleman, and

he well-nigh totter.



but one day, call suddenly on a neighbor with six daughter, he hear

peal of laughter, and find Rosa take her full share of the senseless

mirth. she pull up short at sight of he, and color high; but it

be too late, for he launch a know look at she on the spot, and

mutter something about seven foolish virgin.



he take the first opportunity, when they be alone, and tell she he be

glad to find she be only dismal at home.



but Rosa have prepare for he. “one can be loud without be gay at

heart,” say she, with a lofty, languid air. “I have not forget your

last word to HIM. we be to hide our broken heart from the world. I

try to obey you, dear papa; but, if I have my way, I would never go

into the world at all. I have but one desire now--to end my day in a

convent.”



“please begin they first. a convent! why, you'd turn it out of window.

you be no more fit to be a nun than--a pauper.”



not having foresee this facer, Rosa have nothing ready; so she receive

it with a sad, submissive, helpless sigh, as who would say, “hit I,

papa: I have no friend now.” so then he be sorry he have be so clever;

and, indeed, there be one provoke thing about “a woman's weakness”--it

be invincible.



the next minute, what should come but a long letter from Dr. Staines,

detail his endeavor to purchase a practice in London, and his

ill-success. the letter speak the language of love and hope; but the

fact be discourage; and, indeed, a touching sadness pierce through

the veil of the brave word.



Rosa read it again and again, and cry over it before her father, to

encourage he in his heartless behavior.



about ten day after this, something occur that alter her mood.



she become grave and thoughtful, but no long lugubrious. she seem

desirous to atone to her father for having disturb his cheerfulness.

she smile affectionately on he, and often sit on a stool at his knee,

and glide her hand into his.



he be not a little pleased, and say to himself, “she be come round

to common-sense.”



now, on the contrary, she be far from it than ever.



at last he get the clew. one afternoon he meet Mr. Wyman come out of

the villa. Mr. Wyman be the consult surgeon of that part.



“what! anybody ill?” say Mr. Lusignan. “one of the servant?”



“no; it be Miss Lusignan.”



“why, what be the matter with she?”



Wyman hesitate. “oh, nothing very alarming. would you mind ask she?”



“why?”



“the fact be, she request I not to tell you: make I promise.”



“and I insist upon your tell I.”



“and I think you be quite right, sir, as her father. well, she be

trouble with a little spitting of blood.”



Mr. Lusignan turn pale. “my child! spit of blood! God forbid!”



“oh, do not alarm yourself. it be nothing serious.”



“don't tell I!” say the father. “it be always serious. and she keep

this from I!”



mask his agitation for the time, he inquire how often it have

occur, this grave symptom.



“three or four time this last month. but I may as well tell you at

once: I have examine she carefully, and I do not think it be from the

lung.”



“from the throat, then?”



“no; from the liver. everything point to that organ as the seat

of derangement: not that there be any lesion; only a tendency to

congestion. I be treat she accordingly, and have no doubt of the

result.”



“who be the able physician hereabout?” ask Lusignan, abruptly.



“Dr. Snell, I think.”



“give I his address.”



“I'll write to he, if you like, and appoint a consultation.” he add,

with vast but rather sudden alacrity, “it will be a great satisfaction

to my own mind.”



“then send to he, if you please, and let he be here to-morrow morning;

if not, I shall take she to London for advice at once.”



on this understanding they part, and Lusignan go at once to his

daughter. “o my child!” say he, deeply distressed, “how could you hide

this from I?”



“hide what, papa?” say the girl, look the picture of

unconsciousness.



“that you have be spit blood.”



“who tell you that?” say she, sharply.



“Wyman. he be attend you.”



Rosa color with anger. “Chatterbox! he promise I faithfully not to.”



“but why, in Heaven's name? what! would you trust this terrible thing to

a stranger, and hide it from your poor father?”



“yes,” reply Rosa, quietly.



the old man would not scold she now; he only say, sadly, “I see how it

be: because I will not let you marry poverty, you think I do not love

you.” and he sigh.



“o papa! the idea!” say Rosa. “of course, I know you love I. it be

not that, you dear, darling, foolish papa. there! if you must know, it

be because I do not want you to be distressed. I think I might get

well with a little physic; and, if not, why, then I think, 'Papa be

an old man; la! I dare say I shall last his time;' and so, why should I

poison your latter day with worry about I?”



Mr. Lusignan stare at she, and his lip quiver; but he think the

trait hardly consistent with her superficial character. he could not

help say, half sadly, half bitterly, “well, but of course you have

tell Dr. Staines.”



Rosa open her beautiful eye, like two sun. “of course I have do

nothing of the sort. he have enough to trouble he, without that. poor

fellow! there he be, worry and strive to make his fortune, and gain

your esteem--'they go together,' you know; you tell he so.” (young cat

will scratch when least expect.) “and for I to go and tell he I be

in danger! why, he would go wild. he would think of nothing but I and

my health. he would never make his fortune: and so then, even when I

be go, he will never get a wife, because he have only get genius and

goodness and three thousand pound. no, papa, I have not tell poor

Christopher. I may tease those I love. I have be tease you this ever

so long; but frighten they, and make they miserable? no!”



and here, think of the anguish that be perhaps in store for those

she love, she want to cry; it almost choke she not to. but she

fight it bravely down: she reserve her tear for light occasion and

less noble sentiment.



her father hold out his arm to she. she run her footstool to he, and

sit nestling to his heart.



“please forgive I my misconduct. I have not be a dutiful daughter

ever since you--but now I will. kiss I, my own papa! there! now we be

as we always be.”



then she purr to he on every possible topic but the one that now

fill his parental heart, and bid he good-night at last with a

cheerful smile.



Wyman be exact, and ten minute afterwards Dr. Snell drive up in a

carriage and pair. he be intercept in the hall by Wyman, and, after a

few minute' conversation, present to Mr. Lusignan.



the father give vent to his paternal anxiety in a few simple but

touching word, and be proceed to state the symptom as he have

gather they from his daughter; but Dr. Snell interrupt he politely,

and say he have hear the principal symptom from Mr. Wyman. then,

turn to the latter, he say, “we have well proceed to examine the

patient.”



“certainly,” say Mr. Lusignan. “she be in the drawing-room;” and he lead

the way, and be about to enter the room, when Wyman inform he it be

against etiquette for he to be present at the examination.



“oh, very well!” say he. “yes, I see the propriety of that. but oblige

I by ask she if she have anything on her mind.”



Dr. Snell bow a lofty assent; for, to receive a hint from a layman be

to confer a favor on he.



the man of science be closet full half an hour with the patient. she

be too beautiful to be slur over, even by a busy doctor: he feel she

pulse, look at her tongue, and listen attentively to her lung, to

her heart, and to the organ suspect by Wyman. he leave she at last with

a kindly assurance that the case be perfectly curable.



at the door they be meet by the anxious father, who come with throbbing

heart, and ask the doctor' verdict.



he be coolly inform that could not be give until the consultation

have take place; the result of that consultation would be convey to

he.



“and pray, why cann't I be present at the consultation? the ground on

which two able man agree or disagree must be well worth listen to.”



“no doubt,” say Dr. Snell; “but,” with a superior smile, “my dear sir,

it be not the etiquette.”



“oh, very well,” say Lusignan. but he mutter, “so, then, a father be

nobody!”



and this unreasonable person retire to his study, miserable, and give

up the dining-room to the consultation.



they soon rejoin he.



Dr. Snell's opinion be communicate by Wyman. “I be happy to tell you

that Dr. Snell agree with I, entirely: the lung be not affect, and

the liver be congest, but not disease.”



“be that so, Dr. Snell?” ask Lusignan, anxiously.



“it be so, sir.” he add, “the treatment have be submit to I, and

I quite approve it.”



he then ask for a pen and paper, and write a prescription. he assure

Mr. Lusignan that the case have no extraordinary feature, whatever; he

be not to alarm himself. Dr. Snell then drive away, leave the parent

rather puzzle, but, on the whole, much comfort.



and here I must reveal an extraordinary circumstance.



Wyman's treatment be by drug.



Dr. Snell's be by drug.



Dr. Snell, as you have see, entirely approve Wyman's treatment.



his own have nothing in common with it. the Arctic and Antarctic pole

be not far apart than be his prescription from the prescription he

thoroughly approve.



amiable science! in which complete diversity of practice do not

interfere with perfect uniformity of opinion.



all this be keep from Dr. Staines, and he be entirely occupy in

try to get a position that might lead to fortune, and satisfy Mr.

Lusignan. he call on every friend he have, to inquire where there be

an opening. he walk mile and mile in the good quarter of London,

look for an opening; he let it be know in many quarter that he

would give a good premium to any physician who be about to retire, and

would introduce he to his patient.



no: he could hear of nothing.



then, after a great struggle with himself, he call upon his uncle,

Philip Staines, a retired M.D., to see if he would do anything for he.

he leave this to the last, for a very good reason: Dr. Philip be an

irritable old bachelor, who have assist most of his married relative;

but, find no bottom to the well, have turn rusty and crusty, and now

be apt to administer kick instead of check to all who be near and

dear to he. however, Christopher be the old gentleman's favorite, and

be now desperate; so he muster courage, and go. he be graciously

receive--warmly, indeed. this give he great hope, and he tell his

tale.



the old bachelor side with Mr. Lusignan. “what!” say he, “do you

want to marry, and propagate pauperism? I think you have more sense.

confound it all I have just one nephew whose knock at my street-door do

not make I tremble; he be a bachelor and a thinker, and come for a

friendly chat; the rest be married man, highwayman, who come to say,

'stand and deliver;' and now even you want to join the giddy throng.

well, don't ask I to have any hand in it. you be a man of promise; and

you might as well hang a millstone round your neck as a wife. marriage

be a great mistake than ever now; the woman dress more and manage

bad. I meet your cousin Jack the other day, and his wife with seventy

pound on her back; and next door to pauper. no; whilst you be a

bachelor, like I, you be my favorite, and down in my will for a lump.

once marry, and you join the noble army of foot-pad, leech, vulture,

pauper, go coon, and babbler about brat--and I disown you.”



there be no hope from old Crusty. Christopher leave he, snub and

heart-sick. at last he meet a sensible man, who make he see there be

no short cut in that profession. he must be content to play the up-hill

game; must settle in some good neighborhood; marry, if possible, since

husband and father of family prefer married physician; and so be

poor at thirty, comfortable at forty, and rich at fifty--perhaps.



then Christopher come down to his lodging at Gravesend, and be very

unhappy; and after some day of misery, he write a letter to Rosa in a

moment of impatience, despondency, and passion.



Rosa Lusignan get bad and bad. the slight but frequent hemorrhage

be a drain upon her system, and weaken she visibly. she begin to lose

her rich complexion, and sometimes look almost sallow; and a slight

circle show itself under her eye. these symptom be unfavorable;

nevertheless, Dr. Snell and Mr. Wyman accept they cheerfully, as fresh

indication that nothing be affect but the liver; they multiply and

vary their prescription; the malady ignore those prescription, and

go steadily on. Mr. Lusignan be terrified but helpless. Rosa resign

and reticent.



but it be not in human nature that a girl of this age could always and

at all hour be mistress of herself. one evening in particular she stand

before the glass in the drawing-room, and look at herself a long

time with horror. “be that Rosa Lusignan?” say she, aloud; “it be her

ghost.”



a deep groan startle she. she turn; it be her father. she think he

be fast asleep; and so indeed he have be; but he be just awake, and

hear his daughter utter her real mind. it be a thunder-clap. “oh, my

child! what shall I do?” he cry.



then Rosa be take by surprise in her turn. she speak out. “send for

a great physician, papa. don't let we deceive ourselves; it be our only

chance.”



“I will ask Mr. Wyman to get a physician down from London.”



“no, no; that be no use; they will put their head together, and he will

say whatever Mr. Wyman tell he. La! papa, a clever man like you, not

to see what a cheat that consultation be. why, from what you tell I,

one can see it be manage so that Dr. Snell could not possibly have an

opinion of his own. no; no more echo of Mr. Chatterbox. if you really

want to cure I, send for Christopher Staines.”



“Dr. Staines! he be very young.”



“but he be very clever, and he be not an echo. he willn't care how many

doctor he contradict when I be in danger. papa, it be your child's one

chance.”



“I'll try it,” say the old man, eagerly. “how confident you look! your

color have come back. it be an inspiration. where be he?”



“I think by this time he must be at his lodging in Gravesend. send to

he to-morrow morning.”



“not I! I'll go to he to-night. it be only a mile, and a fine clear

night.”



“my own, good, kind papa! ah! well, come what may, I have live long

enough to be love. yes, dear papa, save I. I be very young to die; and

he love I so dearly.”



the old man bustle away to put on something warm for his night walk,

and Rosa lean back, and the tear well out of her eye, now he be

go.



before she have recover her composure, a letter be bring she, and

this be the letter from Christopher Staines, allude to already.



she take it from the servant with avert head, not wish it to be

see she have be cry, and she start at the handwriting; it seem

such a coincidence that it should come just as she be send for he.





my OWN beloved ROSA,--I now write to tell you, with a heavy heart, that

all be vain. I cannot make, nor purchase, a connection, except as other

do, by time and patience. be a bachelor be quite against a young

physician. if I have a wife, and such a wife as you, I should be sure

to get on; you would increase my connection very soon. what, then,

lie before we? I see but two thing--to wait till we be old, and our

pocket be fill, but our heart chill or sour; or else to marry

at once, and climb the hill together. if you love I as I love you, you

will be save till the battle be over; and I feel I could find energy

and fortitude for both. your father, who think so much of wealth, can

surely settle something on you; and I be not too poor to furnish a house

and start fair. I be not quite obscure--my lecture have give I a

name--and to you, my own love, I hope I may say that I know more than

many of my elder, thank to good school, good method, a genuine love

of my noble profession, and a tendency to study from my childhood. will

you not risk something on my ability? if not, God help I, for I shall

lose you; and what be life, or fame, or wealth, or any mortal thing to

I, without you? I cannot accept your father's decision; you must decide

my fate.



you see I have keep away from you until I can do so no more. all this

time the world to I have seem to want the sun, and my heart pine and

sicken for one sight of you.



Darling Rosa, pray let I look at your face once more.



when this reach you I shall be at your gate. let I see you, though

but for a moment, and let I hear my fate from no lip but yours.--My

own love, your heart-break lover,



CHRISTOPHER STAINES.





this letter stun she at first. her mind of late have be turn away

from love to such stern reality. now she begin to be sorry she have not

tell he. “poor thing!” she say to herself, “he little know that now

all be change. Papa, I sometimes think, would deny I nothing now; it

be I who would not marry he--to be bury by he in a month or two.

Poor Christopher!”



the next moment she start up in dismay. why, her father would miss

he. no; perhaps catch he wait for she. what would he think? what

would Christopher think?--that she have show she papa his letter.



she ring the bell hard. the footman come.



“send Harriet to I this instant. oh, and ask papa to come to I.”



then she sit down and dash off a line to Christopher. this be for

Harriet to take out to he. anything well than for Christopher to be

catch do what be wrong.



the footman come back first. “if you please, miss, master have go out.”



“run after he--the road to Gravesend.”



“yes, miss.”



“no. it be no use. never mind.”



“yes, miss.”



then Harriet come in. “do you want I, miss?”



“yes. no--never mind now.”



she be afraid to do anything for fear of make matter bad. she go

to the window, and stand look anxiously out, with her hand work.

presently she utter a little scream and shrink away to the sofa. she

sink down on it, half sit, half lie, hide her face in her hand,

and wait.





staine, with a lover's impatience, have be more than an hour at the

gate, or walk up and down close by it, his heart now burn with

hope, now freeze with fear, that she would decline a meeting on these

term.



at last the postman come, and then he see he be too soon; but now in

a few minute Rosa would have his letter, and then he should soon know

whether she would come or not. he look up at the drawing-room window.

they be full of light. she be there in all probability. yet she do

not come to they. but why should she, if she be come out?



he walk up and down the road. she do not come. his heart begin to

sicken with doubt. his head droop; and perhaps it be owe to this

that he almost run against a gentleman who be come the other way. the

moon shine bright on both face.



“Dr. Staines!” say Mr. Lusignan surprise. Christopher utter an

ejaculation more eloquent than word.



they stare at each other.



“you be come to call on we?”



“N--no,” stammer Christopher.



Lusignan think that odd; however, he say politely, “no matter, it be

fortunate. would you mind come in?”



“no,” falter Christopher, and stare at he ruefully, puzzle more and

more, but begin to think, after all, it might be a casual meeting.



they enter the gate, and in one moment he see Rosa at the window, and

she see he.



then he alter his opinion again. Rosa have send her father out to he.

but how be this? the old man do not seem angry. Christopher's heart

give a leap inside he, and he begin to glow with the wild hope.

for, what could this mean but relent?



Mr. Lusignan take he first into the study, and light two candle

himself. he do not want the servant pry.



the light show Christopher a change in Mr. Lusignan. he look ten

year old.



“you be not well, sir,” say Christopher gently.



“my health be well enough, but I be a break-hearted man. Dr. Staines,

forget all that pass here at your last visit. all that be over. thank

you for love my poor girl as you do; give I your hand; God bless you.

Sir, I be sorry to say it be as a physician I invite you now. she be

ill, sir, very, very ill.”



“Ill! and not tell I!”



“she keep it from you, my poor friend, not to distress you; and she

try to keep it from I, but how could she? for two month she have

have some terrible complaint--it be destroy she. she be the ghost of

herself. oh, my poor child! my child!”



the old man sob aloud. the young man stand tremble, and ashy pale.

still, the habit of his profession, and the experience of danger

overcome, together with a certain sense of power, keep he up; but,

above all, love and duty say, “be firm.” he ask for an outline of the

symptom.



they alarm he greatly.



“let we lose no more time,” say he. “I will see she at once.”



“do you object to my be present?”



“of course not.”



“shall I tell you what Dr. Snell say it be, and Mr. Wyman?”



“by all mean--after I have see she.”



this comfort Mr. Lusignan. he be to get an independent judgment, at

all event.



when they reach the top of the stair, Dr. Staines pause and lean

against the baluster. “give I a moment,” say he. “the patient must not

know how my heart be beat, and she must see nothing in my face but

what I choose she to see. give I your hand once more, sir; let we both

control ourselves. now announce I.”



Mr. Lusignan open the door, and say, with forced cheerfulness, “Dr.

Staines, my dear, come to give you the benefit of his skill.”



she lie on the sofa, just as we leave she. only her bosom begin to heave.



then Christopher Staines draw himself up, and the majesty of knowledge

and love together seem to dilate his noble frame. he fix his eye on

that recline, pant figure, and step lightly but firmly across

the room to know the bad, like a lion walk up to level lance.









CHAPTER III.





the young physician walk steadily up to his patient without take his

eye off she, and draw a chair to her side.



then she take down one hand--the left--and give it he, avert she

face tenderly, and still cover it with her right; “for,” say she to

herself, “I be such a fright now.” this opportune reflection, and her

heaving bosom, prove that she at least feel herself something more

than his patient. her pretty consciousness make his task more difficult;

nevertheless, he only allow himself to press her hand tenderly with

both his palm one moment, and then he enter on his function bravely.

“I be here as your physician.”



“very well,” say she softly.



he gently detain the hand, and put his finger lightly to her pulse; it

be palpitate, and a fallacious test. oh, how that beat pulse, by

love's electric current, set his own heart throb in a moment!



he put her hand gently, reluctantly down, and say, “Oblige I by

turn this way.” she turn, and he wince internally at the change in

she; but his face betray nothing. he look at her full; and, after

a pause, put she some question: one be as to the color of the

hemorrhage. she say it be bright red.



“not a tinge of purple?”



“no,” say she hopefully, mistake he.



he suppress a sigh.



then he listen at her shoulder-blade and at her chest, and make she

draw her breath while he be listen. the act be simple, and usual

in medicine, but there be a deep, patient, silent intensity about his

way of do they.



Mr. Lusignan creep nearer, and stand with both hand on a table, and his

old head bow, await yet dread the verdict.



up to this time, Dr. Staines, instead of tap and squeeze, and

pull the patient about, have never touch she with his hand, and only

graze she with his ear; but now he say “allow I,” and put both hand

to her waist, more lightly and reverently than I can describe; “now draw

a deep breath, if you please.”



“there!”



“if you could draw a deep still,” say he, insinuatingly.



“there, then!” say she, a little pettishly.



Dr. Staines's eye kindle.



“Hum!” say he. then, after a considerable pause, “be you well or

bad after each hemorrhage?”



“La!” say Rosa; “they never ask I that. why, well.”



“no faintness?”



“not a bit.”



“rather a sense of relief, perhaps?”



“yes; I feel light and well.”



the examination be conclude.



Dr. Staines look at Rosa, and then at her father. the agony in that

aged face, and the love that agony imply, win he, and it be to the

parent he turn to give his verdict.



“the hemorrhage be from the lungs”--



Lusignan interrupt he: “from the lung!” cry he, in dismay.



“yes; a slight congestion of the lung.”



“but not incurable! oh, not incurable, doctor!”



“heaven forbid! it be curable--easily--by remove the cause.”



“and what be the cause?”



“the cause?”--he hesitate, and look rather uneasy.--“Well, the cause,

sir, be--tight stay.”



the tranquillity of the meeting be instantly disturb. “tight stay!

I!” cry Rosa. “why, I be the loose girl in England. look, papa!”

 and, without any apparent effort, she draw herself in, and poke she

little fist between her sash and her gown. “there!”



Dr. Staines smile sadly and a little sarcastically: he be evidently

shy of encounter the lady in this argument; but he be more at his

ease with her father; so he turn towards he and lecture he freely.



“that be wonderful, sir; and the first four or five female patient

that favor I with it, make I disbelieve my other sense; but Miss

Lusignan be now about the thirtieth who have show I that marvellous

feat, with a calm countenance that belie the herculean effort. nature

have she every-day miracle: a boa-constrictor, diameter seventeen

inch, can swallow a buffalo; a woman, with she stay bisect she

almost, and lacerate her skin, can yet for one moment make herself

seem slack, to deceive a juvenile physician. the snake be the miracle of

expansion; the woman be the prodigy of contraction.”



“highly grateful for the comparison!” cry Rosa. “woman and snake!”



Dr. Staines blush and look uncomfortable. “I do not mean to be

offensive; it certainly be a very clumsy comparison.”



“what do that matter?” say Mr. Lusignan, impatiently. “be quiet,

Rosa, and let Dr. Staines and I talk sense.”



“oh, then I be nobody in the business!” say this wise young lady.



“you be everybody,” say Staines, soothingly. “but,” suggest he,

obsequiously, “if you don't mind, I would rather explain my view to

your father--on this one subject.”



“and a pretty subject it be!”



Dr. Staines then invite Mr. Lusignan to his lodging, and promise to

explain the matter anatomically. “meantime,” say he, “would you be good

enough to put your hand to my waist, as I do to the patient's.”



Mr. Lusignan comply; and the patient begin to titter directly, to put

they out of countenance.



“please observe what take place when I draw a full breath.



“now apply the same test to the patient. breathe your good, please, Miss

Lusignan.”



the patient put on a face full of saucy mutiny.



“to oblige we both.”



“oh, how tiresome!”



“I be aware it be rather laborious,” say Staines, a little dryly; “but

to oblige your father!”



“oh, anything to oblige papa,” say she, spitefully. “there! and I do

hope it will be the last--la! no; I don't hope that, neither.”



Dr. Staines politely ignore her little attempt to interrupt the

argument. “you find, sir, that the muscle of my waist, and my

intercostal rib themselves, rise and fall with each inhalation and

exhalation of air by the lung.”



“I do; but my daughter's waist be like dead wood, and so be her

low rib.”



at this volunteer statement, Rosa color to her temple. “thank, papa!

pack I off to London, and sell I for a big doll!”



“in other word,” say the lecturer, mild and pertinacious, “with we the

lung have room to blow, and the whole bony frame expand elastic

with they, like the woodwork of a blacksmith's bellow; but with this

patient, and many of her sex, that noble and divinely frame bellow be

crippled and confine by a powerful machine of human construction; so it

work lamely and feebly: consequently too little air, and of course too

little oxygen, pass through that spongy organ whose very life be air.

now mark the special result in this case: be otherwise healthy and

vigorous, our patient's system send into the lung more blood than that

one crippled organ can deal with; a small quantity becomes extravasate

at odd time; it accumulate, and would become dangerous; then nature,

strengthen by sleep, and by some hour' relief from the diabolical

engine, make an effort and fling it off: that be why the hemorrhage

come in the morning, and why she be the well for it, feel neither

faint nor sick, but relieve of a weight. this, sir, be the rationale of

the complaint; and it be to you I must look for the cure. to judge from

my other female patient, and from the few word Miss Lusignan have let

fall, I fear we must not count on any very hearty co-operation from she:

but you be her father, and have great authority; I conjure you to use

it to the full, as you once use it--to my sorrow--in this very room.

I be forget my character. I be ask here only as her physician.

good-evening.”



he give a little gulp, and hurry away, with an abruptness that touch

the father and offend the sapient daughter.



however, Mr. Lusignan follow he, and stop he before he leave the

house, and thank he warmly; and to his surprise, beg he to call

again in a day or two.



“well, Rosa, what do you say?”



“I say that I be very unfortunate in my doctor. Mr. Wyman be a

chatterbox and know nothing. Dr. Snell be Mr. Wyman's echo. Christopher

be a genius, and they be always full of crotchet. a pretty doctor!

go away, and not prescribe for I!”



Mr. Lusignan admit it be odd. “but, after all,” say he, “if

medicine do you no good?”



“ah! but any medicine he have prescribe would have do I good, and

that make it all the unkinder.”



“if you think so highly of his skill, why not take his advice? it can do

no harm.”



“no harm? why, if I be to leave they off I should catch a dreadful

cold; and that would be sure to settle on my chest, and carry I off,

in my present delicate state. besides, it be so unfeminine not to wear

they.”



this stagger Mr. Lusignan, and he be afraid to press the point; but

what Staines have say ferment in his mind.



Dr. Snell and Mr. Wyman continue their visit and their prescription.



the patient get a little bad.



Mr. Lusignan hope Christopher would call again, but he do not.



when Dr. Staines have satisfy himself that the disorder be easily

curable, then wound pride find an entrance even into his love

heart. that two stranger should have be consult before he! he be

only send for because they could not cure she.



as he seem in no hurry to repeat his visit, Mr. Lusignan call on

he, and say, politely, he have hope to receive another call ere this.

“personally,” say he, “I be much strike with your observation; but my

daughter be afraid she will catch cold if she leave off her corset, and

that, you know, might be very serious.”



Dr. Staines groan, and, when he have groan, he lecture. “female

patient be wonderfully monotonous in this matter; they have a

programme of evasion; and whether the patient be a lady or a housemaid,

she seldom vary from that programme. you find she breathe life's air

with half a bellow, and you tell she so. 'oh, no,' say she; and do

the gigantic feat of contraction we witness that evening at your

house. but, on inquiry, you learn there be a raw red line plough

in her flesh by the cruel stay. 'what be that?' you ask, and flatter

yourself you have pin she. not a bit. 'that be the last pair. I

change they, because they hurt I.' drive out of that by proof of

recent laceration, they say, 'if I leave they off I should catch my

death of cold,' which be equivalent to say there be no flannel in the

shop, no common sense nor needle at home.”



he then lay before he some large french plate, show the organ

of the human trunk, and bid he observe in how small a space, and with

what skill, the Creator have pack so many large yet delicate organ,

so that they should be free and secure from friction, though so close to

each other. he show he the liver, an organ weigh four pound, and

of large circumference; the lung, a very large organ, suspend in the

chest and impatient of pressure; the heart, the stomach, the spleen, all

of they too closely and artfully pack to bear any further compression.



having thus take he by the eye, he take he by the mind.



“be it a small thing for the creature to say to her creator, 'I can pack

all this egg-china well than you can,' and thereupon to jam all

those vital organ close, by a powerful, a very powerful and ingenious

machine? be it a small thing for that sex, which, for good reason, the

Omniscient have make large in the waist than the male, to say to her

creator, 'you don't know your business; woman ought to be small in the

waist than man, and shall be throughout the civilized world'?”



in short, he deliver so many true and point thing on this trite

subject, that the old gentleman be convince, and beg he to come

over that very evening and convince Rosa.



Dr. Staines shake his head dolefully, and all his fire die out of he

at have to face the fair. “Reason will be waste. Authority be the

only weapon. my profession and my reading have both teach I that

the whole character of her sex undergo a change the moment a man

interfere with their dress. from Chaucer's day to our own, neither

public satire nor private remonstrance have ever shake any of their

monstrous fashion. easy, obliging, pliable, and weak of will than man

in other thing, do but touch their dress, however objectionable, and

rock be not hard, iron be not more stubborn, than these soft and

yield creature. it be no earthly use my come--I'll come.”



he come that very evening, and see directly she be bad. “of course,”

 say he, sadly, “you have not take my advice.”



Rosa reply with a toss and an evasion, “I be not worth a

prescription!”



“a physician can prescribe without send his patient to the druggist;

and when he do, then it be his word be gold.”



Rosa shake her head with an air of lofty incredulity.



he look ruefully at Mr. Lusignan and be silent. Rosa smile

sarcastically; she think he be at his wit's end.



not quite: he be cudgel his brain in search of some horribly

unscientific argument, that might prevail; for he feel science would

fall dead upon so fair an antagonist. at last his eye kindle; he have

hit on an argument unscientific enough for anybody, he think. say he,

ingratiatingly, “you believe the Old Testament?”



“of course I do, every syllable.”



“and the lesson it teach?”



“certainly!”



“then let I tell you a story from that book. a syrian general have a

terrible disease. he consult Elisha by deputy. Elisha say, 'Bathe

seven time in a certain river, Jordan, and you will get well.' the

general do not like this at all; he want a prescription; want to

go to the druggist; don't believe in hydropathy to begin, and, in any

case, turn up his nose at Jordan. what! bathe in an Israelitish

brook, when his own country boast noble river, with a reputation for

sanctity into the bargain? in short, he prefer his leprosy to such

irregular medicine. but it happen, by some immense fortuity, that

one of his servant, though an oriental, be a friend, instead of a

flatterer; and this sensible fellow say, 'if the prophet tell you to do

some great and difficult thing, to get rid of this fearful malady, would

not you do it, however distasteful? and can you hesitate when he merely

say, wash in the Jordan, and be heal?' the general listen to

good sense, and cure himself. your case be parallel. you would take

quantity of foul medicine; you would submit to some painful operation,

if life and health depend on it; then why not do a small thing for

a great result? you have only to take off an unnatural machine which

cripple your grow frame, and be unknown to every one of the

woman whose form in Parian marble the world admire. off with that

monstrosity, and your cure be as certain as the syrian general's; though

science, and not inspiration, dictate the easy remedy.”



Rosa have listen impatiently, and now reply with some warmth, “this

be shockingly profane. the idea of compare yourself to Elisha, and I

to a horrid leper! much oblige! not that I know what a leper be.”



“come, come! that be not fair,” say Mr. Lusignan. “he only compare the

situation, not the people.”



“but, papa, the Bible be not to be drag into the common affair of

life.”



“then what on earth be the use of it?”



“oh, papa! well, it be not Sunday, but I have have a sermon. this be the

clergyman, and you be the commentator--he! he! and so now let we go

back from divinity to medicine. I repeat” (this be the first time she

have say it) “that my other doctor give I real prescription, write

in hieroglyphic. you cann't look at they without feel there must be

something in they.”



an angry spot rise on Christopher's cheek, but he only say, “and be

your other doctor satisfied with the progress your disorder be make

under their superintendence?”



“perfectly! papa, tell he what they say, and I'll find he their

prescription.” she go to a drawer, and rummage, affect not to

listen.



Lusignan comply. “first of all, sir, I must tell you they be

confident it be not the lung, but the liver.”



“the what!” shout Christopher.



“ah!” scream Rosa. “oh, don't!--bawling!”



“and don't you screech,” say her father, with a look of misery and

apprehension impartially distribute on the resounding pair.



“you must have misunderstood they,” murmur Staines, in a voice that

be now barely audible a yard off. “the hemorrhage of a bright red

color, and expel without effort or nausea?”



“from the liver--they have assure I again and again,” say Lusignan.



Christopher's face still wear a look of blank amazement, till Rosa

herself confirm it positively.



then he cast a look of agony upon she, and start up in a passion,

forget once more that his host abhor the sonorous. “oh, shame!

shame!” he cry, “that the noble profession of medicine should be

disgrace by ignorance such as this.” then he say, sternly, “Sir, do

not mistake my motive; but I decline to have anything furth to do

with this case, until those two gentleman have be relieve of it; and,

as this be very harsh, and on my part unprecedented, I will give you

one reason out of many I could give you. Sir, there be no road from the

liver to the throat by which blood can travel in this way, defy

the law of gravity; and they know, from the patient, that no strong

expellent force have ever be in operation. their diagnosis, therefore,

imply agnosis, or ignorance too great to be forgive. I will not share

my patient with two gentleman who know so little of medicine, and know

nothing of anatomy, which be the A b c of medicine. can I see their

prescription?”



these be hand to he. “good heaven!” say he, “have you take all

these?”



“Most of they.”



“why, then you have drink about two gallon of unwholesome liquid,

and eat a pound or two of unwholesome solid. these medicine have

co-operate with the malady. the disorder lie, not in the hemorrhage,

but in the precedent extravasation that be a drain on the system; and

how be the loss to be supply? why, by take a little more nourishment

than before; there be no other way; and probably nature, leave to

herself, might have increase your appetite to meet the occasion. but

those two worthy have strike that weapon out of Nature's hand; they

have pepper away at the poor ill-use stomach with drug and draught,

not very deleterious I grant you, but all more or less indigestible, and

all tend, not to whet the appetite, but to clog the stomach, or turn

the stomach, or pester the stomach, and so impair the appetite, and so

co-operate, indirectly, with the malady.”



“this be good sense,” say Lusignan. “I declare, I--I wish I know how to

get rid of they.”



“oh, I'll do that, papa.”



“no, no; it be not worth a rumpus.”



“I'll do it too politely for that. Christopher, you be very

clever--terribly clever. whenever I throw their medicine away, I be

always a little well that day. I will sacrifice they to you. it be

a sacrifice. they be both so kind and chatty, and don't grudge I

hieroglyphic; now you do.”



she sit down and write two sweet letter to Dr. Snell and Mr. Wyman,

thank they for the great attention they have pay she; but find

herself get steadily bad, in spite of all they have do for she,

she propose to discontinue her medicine for a time, and try change of

air.



“and suppose they call to see whether you be change the air?”



“in that case, papa--'not at home.'”



the note be address and despatch.



then Dr. Staines brighten up, and say to Lusignan, “I be now happy to

tell you that I have overrate the malady. the sad change I see in Miss

Lusignan be partly due to the great bulk of unwholesome esculent

she have be eat and drink under the head of medicine. these

discontinue, she might linger on for year, exist, though not

live--the tight-laced cannot be say to live. but if she would be

healthy and happy, let she throw that diabolical machine into the

fire. it be no use ask she to loosen it; she cann't. once there, the

temptation be too strong. off with it, and, take my word, you will be

one of the healthy and most vigorous young lady in Europe.”



Rosa look rueful, and almost sullen. she say she have part with her

doctor for he, but she really could not go about without stay. “they

be as loose as they can be. see!”



“that part of the programme be dispose of,” say Christopher. “please

go on to no. 2. how about the raw red line where the loose machine have

saw you?”



“what red line? no such thing! somebody or other have be peep in at

my window. I'll have the ivy cut down to-morrow.”



“Simpleton!” say Mr. Lusignan, angrily. “you have let the cat out of

the bag. there be such a mark, then, and this extraordinary young man

have discern it with the eye of science.”



“he never discern it at all,” say Rosa, red as fire; “and, what be

more, he never will.”



“I don't want to. I should be very sorry to. I hope it will be go in a

week.”



“I wish you be go now--expose I in this cruel way,” say Rosa,

angry with herself for having say an idiotic thing, and furious with

he for having make she say it.



“oh, Rosa!” say Christopher, in a voice of tender reproach.



but Mr. Lusignan interfere promptly. “Rosa, no noise. I will not have

you snap at your good friend and mine. if you be excited, you have

well retire to your own room and compose yourself. I hate a clamor.”



Rosa make a wry face at this rebuke, and then begin to cry quietly.



every tear be like a drop of blood from Christopher's heart. “pray

don't scold she, sir,” say he, ready to snivel himself. “she mean

nothing unkind: it be only her pretty sprightly way; and she do not

really imagine a love so reverent as mine”--



“don't you interfere between my father and I,” say this reasonable

young lady, now in an ungovernable state of feminine irritability.



“no, Rosa,” say Christopher, humbly. “Mr. Lusignan,” say he, “I hope

you will tell she that, from the very first, I be unwilling to enter on

this subject with she. neither she nor I can forget my double character.

I have not say half as much to she as I ought, be her physician; and

yet you see I have say more than she can bear from I, who, she know,

love she and revere she. then, once for all, do pray let I put this

delicate matter into your hand: it be a case for parental authority.”



“unfatherly tyranny, that mean,” say Rosa. “what business have

gentleman interfere in such thing? it be unheard of. I will not

submit to it, even from papa.”



“well, you need not scream at I,” say Mr. Lusignan; and he shrug

his shoulder to Staines. “she be impracticable, you see. if I do my

duty, there will be a disturbance.”



now this rouse the bile of Dr. Staines. “what, sir!” say he, “you

could separate she and I by your authority, here in this very room; and

yet, when her life be at stake, you abdicate! you could part she from a

man who love she with every drop of his heart,--and she say she love

he, or, at all event, prefer he to others,--and you cannot part

she from a miserable corset, although you see in her poor waste face

that it be carry she to the churchyard. in that case, sir, there be

but one thing for you to do,--withdraw your opposition and let I

marry she. as her lover I be powerless; but invest I with a husband's

authority, and you will soon see the rose return to her cheek, and

her elastic figure expand, and her eye beam with health and the

happiness that come of perfect health.”



Mr. Lusignan make an answer neither of his hearer expect. he say,

“I have a great mind to take you at your word. I be too old and fond of

quiet to drive a Simpleton in single harness.”



this contemptuous speech, and, above all, the word Simpleton, which have

be apply to she pretty freely by young lady at school, and always

gall she terribly, inflict so intolerable a wound on Rosa's vanity,

that she be ready to burst: on that, of course, her stay contribute

their mite of physical uneasiness. thus irritated mind and body, she

burn to strike in return; and as she could not slap her father in the

presence of another, she give it Christopher back-handed.



“you can turn I out of door,” say she, “if you be tired of your

daughter, but I be not such a SIMPLETON as to marry a tyrant. no; he have

show the cloven foot in time. a husband's AUTHORITY, indeed!” then she

turn her hand, and give it he direct. “you tell I a different

story when you be pay your court to I; then you be to be my

servant,--all hypocritical sweetness. you have well go and marry a

circassian slave. they don't wear stay, and they do wear trouser; so

she will be unfeminine enough, even for you. no english lady would

let her husband dictate to she about such a thing. I can have as many

husband as I like, without fall into the clutch of a tyrant. you

be a rude, indelicate--and so please understand it be all over between

you and I.”



both her auditor stand aghast, for she utter this conclusion with a

dignity of which the opening give no promise, and the occasion, weigh

in masculine balance, be not worthy.



“you do not mean that. you cannot mean it,” say Dr. Staines, aghast.



“I do mean it,” say she, firmly; “and, if you be a gentleman, you will

not compel I to say it twice--three time, I mean.”



at this dagger-stroke Christopher turn very pale, but he maintain

his dignity. “I be a gentleman,” say he, quietly, “and a very

unfortunate one. good-by, sir; thank you kindly. good-by, Rosa; God

bless you! oh, pray take a thought! remember, your life and death be in

your own hand now. I be powerless.”



and he leave the house in sorrow, and just, but not pettish, indignation.



when he be go, father and daughter look at each other, and there

be the silence that succeed a storm.



Rosa, feel the most uneasy, be the first to express she

satisfaction. “there, he be go, and I be glad of it. now you and I

shall never quarrel again. I be quite right. such impertinence! such

indelicacy! a fine prospect for I if I have marry such a man! however,

he be go, and so there's an end of it. the idea! tell a young lady,

before her father, she be tight-laced! if you have not be there I could

have forgive he. but I be not; it be a story. now,” suddenly exalt

her voice, “I know you believe he.”



“I say nothing,” whisper papa, hope to still she by example. this

ruse do not succeed.



“but you look volume,” cry she: “and I cann't bear it. I willn't bear

it. if you don't believe I, ask my maid.” and with this felicitous

speech, she ring the bell.



“you'll break the wire if you don't mind,” suggest her father,

piteously.



“all the well! why should not wire be break as well as my heart? oh,

here she be! now, Harriet, come here.”



“yes, miss.”



“and tell the truth. be I tight-laced?”



Harriet look in her face a moment to see what be require of she, and

then say, “that you be not, miss. I never dress a young lady as wear

'em easy than you do.”



“there, papa! that will do, Harriet.”



Harriet retire as far as the keyhole; she see something be up.



“now,” say Rosa, “you see I be right; and, after all, it be a match

you do not approve. well, it be all over, and now you may write to your

favorite, Colonel Bright. if he come here, I'll box his old ear. I

hate he. I hate they all. forgive your wayward girl. I'll stay with

you all my day. I dare say that will not be long, now I have quarrel

with my guardian angel; and all for what? papa! papa! how can you sit

there and not speak I one word of comfort? 'SIMPLETON?' ah! that I be

to throw away a love a queen be scarcely worthy of; and all for what?

really, if it ben't for the ingratitude and wickedness of the thing, it

be too laughable. ha! ha!--oh! oh! oh!--ha! ha! ha!”



and off she go into hysteric, and begin to gulp and choke

frightfully.



her father cry for help in dismay. in run Harriet, see, and scream,

but do not lose her head; this veracious person whip a pair of

scissor off the table, and cut the young lady's stay-lace directly.

then there be a burst of imprison beauty; a deep, deep sigh of relief

come from a bosom that would have do honor to Diana; and the scene

soon conclude with fit of harmless weeping, renew at interval.



when it have settle down to this, her father, to soothe she, say he

would write to Dr. Staines, and bring about a reconciliation, if she

like.



“no,” say she, “you shall kill I soon. I should die of shame.”



she add, “oh, pray, from this hour, never mention his name to I.”



and then she have another cry.



Mr. Lusignan be a sensible man: he drop the subject for the present;

but he make up his mind to one thing--that he would never part with Dr.

Staines as a physician.



next day Rosa keep her own room until dinner-time, and be as unhappy

as she deserve to be. she spend her time in sew on stiff flannel

lining and cry. she half hope Christopher would write to she, so

that she might write back that she forgive he. but not a line.



at half-past six her volatile mind take a turn, real or affected. she

would cry no more for an ungrateful fellow,--ungrateful for not see

through the stone wall how she have be employ all the morning; and

make it up. so she bathe her red eye, make a great alteration in her

dress, and came dance into the room hum an italian ditty.



as they be sit together in the dining-room after dinner, two

letter come by the same post to Mr. Lusignan from Mr. Wyman and Dr.

Snell.



Mr. Wyman's letter:--





DEAR SIR,--I be sorry to hear from Miss Lusignan that she intend to

discontinue medical advice. the disorder be progress favorably, and

nothing to be fear, under proper treatment.



your, etc.





Dr. Snell's letter:--





DEAR SIR,--Miss Lusignan have write to I somewhat impatiently and

seem disposed to dispense with my visit. I do not, however, think it

right to withdraw without tell you candidly that this be an unwise

step. your daughter's health be in a very precarious condition.



your, etc.





Rosa burst out laugh. “I have nothing to fear, and I'm on the brink

of the grave. that come of writing without a consultation. if they

have write at one table, I should have be neither well nor ill. poor

Christopher!” and her sweet face begin to work piteously.



“there! there! drink a glass of wine.”



she do, and a tear with it, that run into the glass like lightning.



warn by this that grief sit very near the bright, hilarious surface,

Mr. Lusignan avoid all emotional subject for the present. next day,

however, he tell she she might dismiss her lover, but no power should

make he dismiss his pet physician, unless her health improve.



“I will not give you that excuse for inflict he on I again,” say

the young hypocrite.



she keep her word. she get well and well, strong, bright, gayer.



she take to walk every day, and increase the distance, till she

could walk ten mile without fatigue.



her favorite walk be to a certain cliff that command a noble view of

the sea. to get to it she must pass through the town of Gravesend; and

we may be sure she do not pass so often through that city without some

idea of meet the lover she have use so ill, and elicit an apology

from he. sly puss!



when she have walk twenty time, or thereabout, through the town, and

never see he, she begin to fear she have offend he past hope. then

she use to cry at the end of every walk.



but by and by bodily health, vanity, and temper combine to rouse the

defiant spirit. say she, “if he really love I, he would not take my

word in such a hurry. and besides, why do he not watch I, and find

out what I be do, and where I walk?”



at last she really begin to persuade herself that she be an ill-use

and slight girl. she be very angry at time, and disconsolate at

other; a mixed state in which hasty and impulsive young lady commit

lifelong folly.



Mr. Lusignan observe the surface only: he see his invalid daughter

get well every day, till at last she become a picture of health

and bodily vigor. relieved of his fear, he trouble his head but little

about Christopher Staines. yet he esteem he, and have get to like

he; but Rosa be a beauty, and could do well than marry a struggle

physician, however able. he launch out into a little gayety, resume

his quiet dinner-party; and, after some persuasion, take his now

bloom daughter to a ball give by the officer of Chatham.



she be the belle of the ball beyond dispute, and dance with ethereal

grace and athletic endurance. she be madly fond of waltzing, and here

she encounter what she be pleased to call a divine dancer. it be

a Mr. Reginald Falcon, a gentleman who have retire to the seaside to

recruit his health and finance sore try by London and Paris. Falcon

have run through his fortune, but have acquire, in the process, certain

talent which, as they cost the acquirer dear, so they sometimes repay

he, especially if he be not overburden with principle, and adopt the

notion that, the world having pluck he, he have a right to pluck the

world. he could play billiard well, but never so well as when back

himself for a heavy stake. he could shoot pigeon well, and his shooting

improve under that which make some marksman miss--a heavy bet against

the gun. he dance to perfection; and be a well-breed, experienced,

brazen, adroit fellow, who know a little of everything that be go,

he have always plenty to say. above all, he have make a particular study

of the fair sex; have meet with many success, many rebuff; and, at

last, by keen study of their mind, and a habit he have acquire of

watch their face, and shift his helm accordingly, have learn

the great art of please they. they admire his face; to I, the

short space between his eye and his hair, his aquiline nose, and thin

straight lip, suggest the bird of prey a little too much: but to

fair dove, bear to be clutch, this similitude perhaps be not very

alarming, even if they observe it.



Rosa dance several time with he, and tell he he dance like an

angel. he inform she that be because, for once, he be dance with

an angel. she laugh and blush. he flatter deliciously, and it cost

he little; for he fall in love with she that night, deep than he have

ever be in his whole life of intrigue. he ask leave to call on

she: she look a little shy at that, and do not respond. he instantly

withdraw his proposal, with an apology and a sigh that raise her pity.

however, she be not a forward girl, even when excite by dance and

charm with her partner; so she leave he to find his own way out of

that difficulty.



he be not long about it. at the end of the next waltz he ask she if

he might venture to solicit an introduction to her father.



“oh, certainly,” say she. “what a selfish girl I be! this be terribly

dull for he.”



the introduction be make, and Rosa be engage for the next three

dance, Mr. Falcon sit by Mr. Lusignan and entertain he. for this

little piece of apparent self-denial he be pay in various coin:

Lusignan find out he be the son of an old acquaintance, and so the

door of Kent Villa open to he; meantime, Rosa Lusignan never pass

he, even in the arm of a cavalry officer, without bestow a glance

of approval and gratitude on he. “what a good-hearted young man!”

 think she. “how kind of he to amuse papa; and now I can stay so much

long.”



Falcon follow up the dance by a call, and be infinitely agreeable:

follow up the call by another, and admire Rosa with so little

disguise that Mr. Lusignan say to she, “I think you have make a

conquest. his father have considerable estate in Essex. I presume he

inherit they.”



“oh, never mind his estate,” say Rosa, “he dance like an angel, and

gossip charmingly, and be so nice.”



Christopher Staines pine for this girl in silence: his fine frame get

thin, his pale cheek paler, as she get rosy and rosier; and how?

why, by follow the very advice she have snub he for give she. at

last, he hear she have be the belle of a ball, and that she have be

see walk mile from home, and bloom as a Hebe. then his deep

anxiety cease, his pride sting he furiously; he begin to think of his

own value, and to struggle with all his might against his deep love.

sometimes he would even inveigh against she, and call she a fickle,

ungrateful girl, capable of no strong passion but vanity. many a hard

term he apply to she in his sorrowful solitude; but not a word when he

have a hearer. he find it hard to rest: he keep dash up to London and

back. he plunge furiously into study. he groan and sigh, and fight

the hard and bitter fight that be too often the lot of the deep that

love the shallow. strong, but single-hearted, no other lady could

comfort he. he turn from female company, and shun all for the

fault of one.



the inward contest wear he. he begin to look very thin and wan; and all

for a Simpleton!



Mr. Falcon prolong his stay in the neighborhood, and drive a handsome

dogcart over twice a week to visit Mr. Lusignan.



he use to call on that gentleman at four o'clock, for at that hour Mr.

Lusignan be always out, and his daughter always at home.



she be at home at that hour because she take her long walk in the

morning. while her new admirer be in bed, or dressing, or breakfasting,

she be spring along the road with all the elasticity of youth, and

health, and native vigor, brace by daily exercise.



twenty-one of these walk do she take, with no other result than health

and appetite; but the twenty-second be more fertile--extremely fertile.

start later than usual, she pass through Gravesend while Reginald

Falcon be smoke at his front window. he see she, and instantly doff

his dressing-gown and don his coat to follow she. he be madly in

love with she, and be a man who have learn to shoot pigeon and

opportunity fly, he instantly resolve to join she in her walk, get

her clear of the town, by the sea-beach, where beauty melt, and propose

to she. yes, marriage have not be hitherto his habit, but this girl be

peerless: he be pledge by honor and gratitude to Phoebe Dale; but hang

all that now. “no man should marry one woman when he love another; it

be dishonorable.” he get into the street and follow she as fast as he

could without run.



it be not so easy to catch she. lady be not build for run; but

a fine, tall, symmetrical girl who have practise walk fast can cover

the ground wonderfully in walk--if she choose. it be a sight to see

how Rosa Lusignan square her shoulder and step out from the

waist like a canadian girl skating, while her elastic foot slap the

pavement as she spank along.



she have nearly clear the town before Falcon come up with she.



he be hardly ten yard from she when an unexpected incident occur.

she whisk round the corner of Bird Street, and run plump against

Christopher Staines; in fact, she dart into his arm, and her face

almost touch the breast she have wound so deeply.









CHAPTER IV.





Rosa cry “oh!” and put up her hand to her face in lovely confusion,

color like a peony.



“I beg your pardon,” say Christopher, stiffly, but in a voice that

tremble.



“no,” say Rosa, “it be I run against you. I walk so fast now. Hope I

do not hurt you.”



“hurt I?”



“well, then, frighten you?”



no answer.



“oh, please don't quarrel with I in the street,” say Rosa, cunningly

imply that he be the quarrelsome one. “I be go on the beach.

good-by!” this adieu she utter softly, and in a hesitate tone that

belie it. she start off, however, but much more slowly than she be

go before; and, as she go, she turn her head with infinite grace,

and keep look askant down at the pavement two yard behind she:

moreover she go close to the wall, and leave room at her side for

another to walk.



Christopher hesitate a moment; but the mute invitation, so arch yet

timid, so pretty, tender, sly, and womanly, be too much for he, as it

have generally prove for male, and the philosopher's foot be soon

in the very place to which the Simpleton with the mere tail of her eye

direct it.



they walk along, side by side, in silence, Staines agitate, gloomy,

confused, Rosa radiant and glowing, yet not know what to say for

herself, and want Christopher to begin. so they walk along without

a word.



Falcon follow they at some distance to see whether it be an admirer

or only an acquaintance. a lover he never dream of; she have show such

evident pleasure in his company, and have receive his visit alone so

constantly.



however, when the pair have get to the beach, and be walk slow and

slow, he feel a pang of rage and jealousy, turn on his heel with an

audible curse, and find Phoebe Dale a few yard behind he with a white

face and a peculiar look. he know what the look mean; he have bring it

to that faithful face before to-day.





“you be well, Miss Lusignan.”



“well, Dr. Staines? I be health itself thank to--hem!”



“our estrangement have agree with you?” this very bitterly.



“you know very well it be not that. oh, please don't make I cry in the

street.”



this humble petition, or rather meek threat, lead to another long

silence. it be continue till they have nearly reach the shore.

but, meantime, Rosa's furtive eye scan Christopher's face, and her

conscience smite she at the sign of suffering. she feel a desire to

beg his pardon with deep humility; but she suppress that weakness. she

hang her head with a pretty, sheepish air, and ask he if he could not

think of something agreeable to say to one after desert one so long.



“I be afraid not,” say Christopher, bluntly. “I have an awkward habit

of speak the truth; and some people cann't bear that, not even when it

be speak for their good.”



“that depend on temper, and nerve, and thing,” say Rosa,

deprecatingly; then softly, “I could bear anything from you now.”



“indeed!” say Christopher, grimly. “well, then, I hear you have no

soon get rid of your old lover, for love you too well and tell

you the truth, than you take up another,--some flimsy man of fashion,

who will tell you any lie you like.”



“it be a story, a wicked story,” cry Rosa, thoroughly alarmed. “I, a

lover! he dance like an angel; I cann't help that.”



“be his visit at your house like angels'--few and far between?” and

the true lover's brow lower black upon she for the first time.



Rosa change color, and her eye fall a moment. “ask papa,” she say.

“his father be an old friend of papa's.”



“Rosa, you be prevaricate. young man do not call on old gentleman

when there be an attractive young lady in the house.”



the argument be get too close; so Rosa operate a diversion. “so,”

 say she, with a sudden air of lofty disdain, swiftly and adroitly

assume, “you have have I watch?”



“not I; I only hear what people say.”



“listen to gossip and not have I watch! that show how little you

really care for I. well, if you have, you would have make a little

discovery, that be all.”



“should I?” say Christopher, puzzle. “what?”



“I shall not tell you. think what you please. yes, sir, you would have

find out that I take long walk every day, all alone; and what be

more, that I walk through Gravesend, hope--like a goose--that somebody

really love I, and would meet I, and beg my pardon; and if he have, I

should have tell he it be only my tongue, and my nerve, and thing;

my heart be his, and my gratitude. and after all, what do word

signify, when I be a good, obedient girl at bottom? so that be what

you have lose by not condescend to look after I. fine

love!--Christopher, beg my pardon.”



“may I inquire for what?”



“why, for not understand I; for not know that I should be sorry

the moment you be go. I take they off the very next day, to please

you.”



“took off whom?--Oh, I understand. you do? then you be a good girl.”



“don't I tell you I be? a good, obedient girl, and anything but a

flirt.”



“I don't say that.”



“but I do. don't interrupt. it be to your good advice I owe my health;

and to love anybody but you, when I owe you my love and my life, I must

be a heartless, ungrateful, worthless--oh, Christopher, forgive I! no,

no; I mean, beg my pardon.”



“I'll do both,” say Christopher, take she in his arm. “I beg your

pardon, and I forgive you.”



Rosa lean her head tenderly on his shoulder, and begin to sigh. “oh,

dear, dear! I be a wicked, foolish girl, not fit to walk alone.”



on this admission, Christopher speak out, and urge she to put an end to

all these unhappy misunderstanding, and to his new torment, jealousy,

by marry he.



“and so I would this very minute, if papa would consent. but,” say she,

slyly, “you never can be so foolish to wish it. what! a wise man like

you marry a simpleton!”



“do I ever call you that?” ask Christopher, reproachfully.



“no, dear; but you be the only one who have not; and perhaps I should

lose even the one, if you be to marry I. oh, husband be not so

polite as lover! I have observe that, simpleton or not.”



Christopher assure she that he take quite a different view of her

character; he believe she to be too profound for shallow people to read

all in a moment: he even intimate that he himself have experience no

little difficulty in understand she at odd time. “and so,” say he,

“they turn round upon you, and instead of say, 'we be too shallow to

fathom you,' they pretend you be a simpleton.”



this solution of the mystery have never occur to Rosa, nor indeed

be it likely to occur to any creature less ingenious than a lover: it

please she hugely; her fine eye sparkle, and she nestle close still

to the strong arm that be to parry every ill, from mortal disease to

gall epithet.



she listen with a willing ear to all his reason, his hope, his

fear, and, when they reach her father's door, it be settle that

he should dine there that day, and urge his suit to her father after

dinner. she would implore the old gentleman to listen to it favorably.



the lover part, and Christopher go home like one who have awaken

from a hideous dream to daylight and happiness.



he have not go far before he meet a dash dogcart, drive by an

exquisite. he turn to look after it, and see it drive up to Kent

Villa.



in a moment he divine his rival, and a sickness of heart come over he.

but he recover himself directly, and say, “if that be the fellow, she

will not receive he now.”



she do receive he though: at all event, the dogcart stand at the

door, and its master remain inside.



Christopher stand, and count the minute: five, ten, fifteen, twenty

minute, and still the dogcart stand there.



it be more than he could bear. he turn savagely, and stride back to

gravesend, resolve that all this torture should end that night, one

way or other.





Phoebe Dale be the daughter of a farmer in Essex, and one of the

happy young woman in England till she know Reginald Falcon, Esq.



she be rear on wholesome food, in wholesome air, and use to churn

butter, make bread, cook a bit now and then, cut out and sew all her

own dress, get up her own linen, make hay, ride anything on four leg;

and, for all that, be a great reader, and teach in the Sunday school

to oblige the vicar; write a neat hand, and be a good arithmetician,

keep all the house account and farm account. she be a musician,

too,--not profound, but very correct. she would take her turn at the

harmonium in church, and, when she be there, you never hear a wrong

note in the bass, nor an inappropriate flourish, nor bad time. she could

sing, too, but never would, except her part in a psalm. her voice be

a deep contralto, and she choose to be ashamed of this heavenly organ,

because a pack of envious girl have giggle, and say it be like a

man's.



in short, her natural ability and the range and variety of her useful

accomplishment be considerable; not that she be a prodigy; but she

belong to a small class of woman in this island who be not too high

to use their arm, nor too low to cultivate their mind; and, have a

faculty and a habit deplorably rare amongst her sex, viz., Attention,

she have profit by her miscellaneous advantage.



her figure and face both tell her breed at once: here be an old English

pastoral beauty; not the round-back, narrow-cheste cottager, but the

well-feed, erect rustic, with broad, full bust and massive shoulder, and

arm as hard as a rock with health and constant use; a hand finely cut,

though neither small nor very white, and just a little hard inside,

compare with Luxury's soft palm; a face honest, fair, and rather large

than small; not beautiful, but exceedingly comely; a complexion not pink

and white, but that delicately blend brickdusty color, which tint the

whole cheek in fine gradation, outlast other complexion twenty year,

and beautify the true Northern, even in old age. Gray, limpid, honest,

point-blank, search eye; hair true nut-brown, without a shade of red

or black; and a high, smooth forehead, full of sense. across it run

one deep wrinkle that do not belong to her youth. that wrinkle be the

brand of trouble, the line of agony. it have come of love above she,

yet below she, and of love an egotist.



three year before our tale commence, a gentleman's horse run away with

he, and throw he on a heap of stone by the roadside, not very far

from Farmer Dale's gate. the farmer have he take in. the doctor say he

must not be move. he be insensible; his cheek like delicate wax; his

fair hair like silk stain with blood. he become Phoebe's patient, and,

in due course, her convalescent: his pale, handsome face and fascinating

manner gain one charm more from weakness; his vice be in abeyance.



the womanly nurse's heart yearn over her child; for he be feeble as

a child; and, when he get well enough to amuse his weary hour by make

love to she, and tell she a pack of arrant lie, she be a ready

dupe. he be to marry she as soon as ever his old uncle die, and leave

he the mean, etc., etc. at last he get well enough to leave she, and

go away, her open admirer and secret lover. he borrow twenty pound

of she the day he leave.



he use to write her charming letter, and feed the flame; but one day

her father send she up to London, on his own business, all of a sudden,

and she call on Mr. Falcon at his real address. she find he do not

live there--only receive letter. however, half-a-crown soon buy his

real address, and thither Phoebe proceed with a troubled heart, for

she suspect that her true lover be in debt or trouble, and oblige to

hide. well, he must be get out of it, and hide at the farm meantime.



so the love girl knock at the door, ask for Mr. Falcon, and be

show in to a lady rather showily dress, who ask her business.



Phoebe Dale stare at she, and then turn pale as ashe. she be

paralyze, and could not find her tongue.



“why, what be the matter now?” say the other, sharply.



“be you married to Reginald Falcon?”



“of course I be. look at my wedding-ring.”



“then I be not want here,” falter Phoebe, ready to sink on the

floor.



“certainly not, if you be one of the bygone,” say the woman,

coarsely; and Phoebe Dale wait to hear no more, but find her way,

Heaven know how, into the street, and there lean, half-fainting, on

a rail, till a policeman come, and tell she she have be drink, and

suggest a cool cell as the good cure.



“not drink; only a break heart,” say she, in her low, mellow voice

that few could resist.



he get she a glass of water, drive away the boy that congregate

directly, and she leave the street. but she soon come back again, and

wait about for Reginald Falcon.



it be night when he appear. she seize he by the breast, and tax

he with his villany.



what with her iron grasp, pale face, and flash eye, he lose his

cool impudence, and blurt out excuse. it be an old and unfortunate

connection; he would give the world to dissolve it, if he could do it

like a gentleman.



Phoebe tell he to please himself: he must part with one or the other.



“don't talk nonsense,” say this man of brass; “I'll un-falcon she on

the spot.”



“very well,” say Phoebe. “I be go home; and, if you be not there by

to-morrow at noon”--She say no more, but look a great deal. then she

depart, and refuse he her hand at part. “we will see about that

by and by,” say she.



at noon my lord come down to the farm, and, unfortunately for Phoebe,

play the penitent so skilfully for about a month, that she forgive

he, and love he all the more for having so nearly part with he.



her peace be not to endure long. he be detect in an intrigue in the

very village.



the insult strike so home that Phoebe herself, to her parent'

satisfaction, order he out of the house at once.



but, when he be go, she have fit of weeping, and could settle to

nothing for a long time.



month have elapse, and she be get a sort of dull tranquillity,

when, one evening, take a walk she have often with he, and mourn

her solitude and waste affection, he waylay she, and clung to

her knee, and shed crocodile tear on her hand, and, after a long

resistance, violent at first, but fainter and fainter, get she in his

power again, and that so completely that she meet he several time by

night, be ashamed to be see with he in those part by day.



this end in fresh promise of marriage, and in a constant

correspondence by letter. this p know exactly how to talk to a woman,

and how to write to one. his letter feed the unhappy flame; and, mind

you, he sometimes deceive himself, and think he love she; but it

be only himself he love. she be an invaluable lover; a faithful,

disintereste friend; hers be a vile bargain; his, an excellent one,

and he cling to it.



and so they go on. she detect he in another infidelity, and

reproach he bitterly; but she have no long the strength to break

with he. nevertheless, this time she have the sense to make a struggle.

she implore he, on her very knee, to show she a little mercy in

return for all her love. “for pity's sake, leave I!” she cry. “you

be strong, and I be weak. you can end it forever, and pray do. you

don't want I; you don't value I: then, leave I, once and for all, and

end this hell you keep I in.”



no; he could not, or he would not, leave she alone. look at a bird's

wings!--how like an angel's! yet so vile a thing as a bit of birdlime

subdue they utterly; and such be the fascinating power of this mean

man over this worthy woman. she be a reader, a thinker, a model

of respectability, industry, and sense; a businesswoman, keen and

practical; could encounter sharp hand in sharp trade; could buy or

sell hog, calf, or beast with any farmer or butcher in the country,

yet no match for a cunning fool. she have enshrine an idol in her heart,

and that heart adore it, and clung to it, though the superior head see

through it, dread it, despise it.



no wonder three year of this have draw a tell-tale wrinkle across the

polished brow.





Phoebe Dale have not receive a letter for some day; that rouse she

suspicion and sting her jealousy; she come up to London by fast train,

and down to gravesend directly.



she have a thick veil that conceal her feature; and with a little

inquire and bribe, she soon find out that Mr. Falcon be there with

a showy dogcart. “ah!” think Phoebe, “he have win a little money at

play or pigeon-shooting; so now he have no need of I.”



she take the lodging opposite he, but observe nothing till this very

morning, when she see he throw off his dressing-gown all in a hurry and

fle on his coat. she tie on her bonnet as rapidly, and follow he,

until she discover the object of his pursuit. it be a surprise to

she, and a puzzle, to see another man step in, as if to take she

part. but as Reginald still follow the loitering pair, she follow

Reginald, till he turn and find she at his heel, white and lower.



she confront he in threaten silence for some time, during which he

prepare his defence.



“so it be a lady this time,” say she, in her low, rich voice, sternly.



“be it?”



“yes, and I should say she be bespoke--that tall, fine-build gentleman.

but I suppose you care no more for his feeling than you do for mine.”



“Phoebe,” say the egotist, “I will not try to deceive you. you have

often say you be my true friend.”



“and I think I have prove it.”



“that you have. well, then, be my true friend now. I be in love--really

in love--this time. you and I only torment each other; let we part

friend. there be plenty of farmer in Essex that would jump at you. as

for I, I'll tell you the truth; I have run through every farthing;

my estate mortgage beyond its value--two or three writ out against

I--that be why I slip down here. my only chance be to marry money.

her father know I have land, and he know nothing about the mortgage;

she be his only daughter. don't stand in my way, that be a good girl; be

my friend, as you always be. hang it all, Phoebe, cann't you say a word

to a fellow that be drive into a corner, instead of glare at I like

that? there! I know it be ungrateful; but what can a fellow do? I must

live like a gentleman or else take a dose of prussic acid; you don't

want to drive I to that. why, you propose to part, last time,

yourself.”



she give he one majestic, indescribable look, that make even his

callous heart quiver, and turn away.



then the scamp admire she for despise he, and could not bear to lose

she. he follow she, and put forth all those power of persuade and

soothing, which have so often prove irresistible. but this time it be

in vain. the insult be too savage, and his egotism too brutal, for

honey phrase to blind she.



after endure it a long time with a silent shudder, she turn and

shake he fiercely off she like some poisonous reptile.



“do you want I to kill you? I'd liever kill myself for love such a

thing as THOU. go thy way, man, and let I go mine.” in her passion she

drop her cultivation for once, and go back to the THOU and THEE of

her grandam.



he color up and look spiteful enough; but he soon recover his

cynical egotism, and go off whistle an operatic passage.



she creep to her lodging, and bury her face in her pillow, and rock

herself to and fro for hour in the bitter agony the heart can feel,

groan over her great affection waste, fling into the dirt.



while she be thus, she hear a little commotion. she come to the window

and see Falcon, exquisitely dress, drive off in his dogcart, attend

by the acclamation of eight boy. she see at a glance he be go

courting; her knee give way under she, and, such be the power of the

mind, this stalwart girl lie weak as water on the sofa, and have not the

power to go home, though just then she have but one wish, one hope--to

see her idol's face no more, nor hear his wheedle tongue, that have

ruin her peace.



the exquisite Mr. Falcon be receive by Rosa Lusignan with a certain

tremor that flatter his hope. he tell she, in charming language, how

he have admire she at first sight, then esteem she, then love she.



she blush and pant, and show more than once a desire to interrupt

he, but be too polite. she hear he out with rise dismay, and he

offer she his hand and heart.



but by this time she have make up her mind what to say. “o Mr. Falcon!”

 she cry, “how can you speak to I in this way? why, I be engage.

don't you know?”



“no; I be sure you be not, or you would never have give I the

encouragement you have.”



“oh, all engage young lady flirt--a little; and everybody here know

I be engaged to Dr. Staines.”



“why, I never see he here.”



Rosa's tact be a quality that come and go; so she blush, and

falter out, “we have a little tiff, as lover will.”



“and you do I the honor to select I as cat's-paw to bring he on

again. be not that rather heartless?”



Rosa's fitful tact return to she.



“oh, sir, do not think so ill of I. I be not heartless, I be only

unwise; and you be so superior to the people about you; I could not

help appreciate you, and I think you know I be engage, and so I

be less on my guard. I hope I shall not lose your esteem, though I have

no right to anything more. ah! I see by your face I have behave very

ill: pray forgive I.”



and with this she turn on the water of the Nile, well know to you,

perhaps, as “crocodile tear.”



Falcon be a gentleman on the surface, and know he should only make

matter bad by quarrel with she. so he grind his tooth, and say,

“may your own heart never feel the pang you have inflict. I shall

love you and remember you till my die day.”



he bow ceremoniously and leave she.



“ay,” say he to himself, “I will remember you, you heartless jilt, and

the man you have jilt I for. Staines be his d--d name, be it?”



he drive back crestfallen, bitter, and, for once in his life,

heart-sick, and draw up at his lodging. here he find attendant

wait to receive he.



a sheriff's officer take his dogcart and horse under a judgment; the

disturbance this cause collect a tiny crowd, gape and grinning, and

bring Phoebe's white face and eye swollen with weeping to the window.



Falcon see she and brazen it out. “take they,” say he, with an oath.

“I'll have a well turn-out by to-morrow, breakfast-time.”



the crowd cheer he for his spirit.



he get down, light a cigar, chaff the officer and the crowd, and be, on

the whole, admire.



then another officer, who have be hunt he in couple with the

other, step forward and take HIM, for the balance of a judgment debt.



then the swell's cigar fall out of his mouth, and he be seriously

alarmed. “why, Cartwright,” say he, “this be too bad. you promise not

to see I this month. you pass I full in the Strand.”



“you be mistaken, sir,” say Cartwright, with sullen irony. “I've get a

twin-brother; a many take he for I, till they find the difference.”

 then, lower his voice, “what call have you to boast in your club you

have make it right with Bill Cartwright, and he'd never see you? that get

about, and so I be bind to see you or lose my bread. there's one or

two I don't see, but then they be real gentleman, and think of I as

well as theirselve, and don't blab.”



“I must have be drunk,” say Falcon apologetically. “more likely

blow a cloud. when you young gent get a-smoking together,

you'd tell on your own mother. come along, colonel, off we go to

Merrimashee.”



“why, it be only twenty-six pound. I have pay the rest.”



“More than that; there's the cost.”



“come in, and I'll settle it.”



“all right, sir. Jem, watch the back.”



“oh, I shall not try that game with a sharp hand like you, Cartwright.”



“you have well not, sir,” say Cartwright; but he be soften a little

by the compliment.



when they be alone, Falcon begin by say it be a bad job for he.



“why, I think you be a-go to pay it all in a moment.”



“I cann't; but I have get a friend over the way that could, if she choose.

she have always get money, somehow.”



“oh, if it be a she, it be all right.”



“I don't know. she have quarrel with I; but give I a little time.

here! have a glass of sherry and a biscuit, while I try it on.”



having thus muffle Cartwright, this man of the world open his window

and look out. the crowd have follow the capture dogcart, so he have

the street to himself. he beckon to Phoebe, and after considerable

hesitation she open her window.



“Phoebe,” say he, in tone of tender regret, admirably natural and

sweet, “I shall never offend you again; so forgive I this once. I have

give that girl up.”



“not you,” say Phoebe, sullenly.



“indeed I have. after our quarrel, I start to propose to she; but I

have not the heart; I come back and leave she.”



“Time will show. if it be not she, it will be some other, you false,

heartless villain.”



“come, I say, don't be so hard on I in trouble. I be go to prison.”



“so I suppose.”



“ah! but it be bad than you think. I be only take for a paltry thirty

pound or so.”



“thirty-three, fifteen, five,” suggest Cartwright, in a muffle

whisper, his mouth be full of biscuit.



“but once they get I to a sponge-house, detainer will pour in, and

my cruel creditor will confine I for life.”



“it be the good place for you. it will put a stop to your wickedness,

and I shall be at peace. that's what I have never know, night or day,

this three year.”



“but you will not be happy if you see I go to prison before your eye.

be you ever inside a prison? just think what it must be to be coope

up in those cold grim cell all alone; for they use a debtor like a

criminal now.”



Phoebe shudder; but she say, bravely, “well, tell they you have be

a-courting. there be a time I'd have die soon than see a hair of

your head hurt; but it be all over now; you have wear I out.”



then she begin to cry.



Falcon heave a deep sigh. “it be no more than I deserve,” say he.

“I'll pack up my thing, and go with the officer. give I one kind word

at parting, and I'll think of it in my prison, night and day.”



he withdraw from the window with another deep sigh, tell Cartwright,

cheerfully, it be all right, and proceed to pack up his trap.



meantime Phoebe sit at her window and cry bitterly. her word have be

braver than her heart.



Falcon manage to pay the trifle he owe for the lodging, and presently

he come out with Cartwright, and the attendant call a cab. his thing

be throw in, and Cartwright invite he to follow. then he look up,

and cast a genuine look of terror and misery at Phoebe. he think she

would have relent before this.



her heart give way; I be afraid it would, even without that piteous and

mute appeal. she open the window, and ask Mr. Cartwright if he would

be good enough to come and speak to she.



Cartwright commit his prisoner to the subordinate, and knock at the

door of Phoebe's lodging. she come down herself and let he in. she lead

the way upstairs, motion he to a seat, sit down by he, and begin to

cry again. she be thoroughly unstrung.



Cartwright be human, and mutter some word of regret that a poor

fellow must do his duty.



“oh, it be not that,” sob Phoebe. “I can find the money. I have find

more for he than that, many's the time.” then, dry her eye, “but

you must know the world, and I dare say you can see how 'tis with I.”



“I can,” say Cartwright, gravely. “I overheard you and he; and, my

girl, if you take my advice, why, let he go. he be a gentleman skin

deep, and dress well, and can palaver a girl, no doubt; but bless

your heart, I can see at a glance he be not worth your little finger,

an honest, decent young woman like you. why, it be like butter fight

with stone. let he go; or I will tell you what it be, you will hang for

he some day, or else make away with yourself.”



“ay, sir,” say Phoebe, “that's likeli; and if I be to let he go to

prison, I should sit I down and think of his parting look, and I should

fle myself into the water for he before I be a day old.”



“ye mustn't do that anyway. while there's life there's hope.”



upon this Phoebe put he a question, and find he ready to do anything

for she, in reason--provide he be pay for it. and the end of it all

be, the prisoner be convey to London; Phoebe get the requisite sum;

Falcon be deposit in a third-class carriage bind for Essex. Phoebe

pay his debt, and give Cartwright a present, and away rattle the train

convey the handsome egotist into temporary retirement, to wit, at

a village five mile from the Dales' farm. she be too ashamed of her

young gentleman and herself to be see with he in her native village.

on the road down he be full of little practical attention; she

receive they coldly; his mellifluous mouth be often at her car,

pour thank and praise into it; she never vouchsafe a word of

reply. all she do be to shudder now and then, and cry at interval.

yet, whenever he leave her side, her whole body become restless; and when

he come back to she, a furtive thrill announce the insane complacency

his bare contact give she. surely, of all the form in which love

torment the heart, this be the most terrible and pitiable.





Mr. Lusignan find his daughter in tear.



“why, what be the matter now?” say he, a little peevishly. “we have have

nothing of this sort of thing lately.”



“Papa, it be because I have misconduct myself. I be a foolish,

imprudent girl. I have be flirt with Mr. Falcon, and he have take a

cruel advantage of it--propose to I--this very afternoon--actually!”



“have he? well, he be a fine fellow, and have a land estate in Norfolk.

there's nothing like land. they may well call it real property--there be

something to show; you can walk on it, and ride on it, and look out of

window at it: that be property.”



“oh, papa! what be you say? would you have I marry one man when I

belong to another?”



“but you don't belong to any one except to I.”



“oh, yes; I do. I belong to my dear Christopher.”



“why, you dismiss he before my very eye; and very ill you behave,

beg your pardon. the man be your able physician and your good

friend, and say nothing that be not for your good; and you treat he

like a dog.”



“yes, but he have apologize.”



“what for? be treat like a dog?”



“oh, don't say so, papa! at all event, he have apologize, as a

gentleman should whenever--whenever”--



“whenever a lady be in the wrong.”



“don't, papa; and I have ask he to dinner.”



“with all my heart. I shall be downright glad to see he again. you use

he abominably.”



“but you need not keep say so,” whine Rosa. “and that be not all,

dear papa; the bad of it be, Mr. Falcon propose to I have open my

eye. I be not fit to be trust alone. I be too fond of dancing, and

flirting will follow somehow. oh, think how ill I be a few month ago,

and how unhappy you be about I! they be kill I. he come and

save I. yes, papa, I owe all this health and strength to Christopher.

I do take they off, the very next day, and see the effect of it and my

long walk. I owe he my life, and what I value far more, my good look.

La! I wish I have not tell you that. and after all this, don't I belong

to my Christopher? how could I be happy or respect myself if I marry

any one else? and oh, papa! he look wan and worn. he have be fret

for his Simpleton. oh, dear! I mustn't think of that--it make I cry;

and you don't like scene, do you?”



“hate 'em!”



“well, then,” say Rosa, coaxingly, “I'll tell you how to end they.

marry your Simpleton to the only man who be fit to take care of she. oh,

papa! think of his deep, deep affection for I, and pray don't snub

he if--by any chance--after dinner--he should happen to ask

you--something.”



“oh, then it be possible that, by the mere chance, the gentleman you

have accidentally ask to dinner, may, by some strange fortuity,

be surprised into ask I a second time for something very much

resemble my daughter's hand--eh?”



Rosa color high. “he might, you know. how can I tell what gentleman

will say when the lady have retire and they be leave alone

with--with”--



“with the bottle. ay, that's true; when the wine be in, the wit be out.”



say Rosa, “well, if he should happen to be so foolish, pray think of

ME; of all we owe he, and how much I love he, and ought to love he.”

 she then bestow a propitiatory kiss, and run off to dress for dinner;

it be a much long operation to-day than usual.



Dr. Staines be punctual. Mr. Lusignan comment favorably on that.



“he always be,” say Rosa, eagerly.



they dine together. Mr. Lusignan chat freely, but Staines and Rosa

be under a feeling of restraint, Staines in particular; he could not

help feel that before long his fate must be settle. he would either

obtain Rosa's hand, or have to resign she to some man of fortune who

would step in; for beauty such as hers could not long lack brilliant

offer. longing, though dread, to know his fate, he be glad when

dinner end.



Rosa sit with they a little while after dinner, then rise, bestow

another propitiatory kiss on her father's head, and retire with a

modest blush, and a look at Christopher that be almost divine.



it inspire he with the courage of lion, and he commence the attack

at once.









CHAPTER V.





“Mr. Lusignan,” say he, “the last time I be here you give I some

hope that you might be prevail on to trust that angel's health and

happiness to my care.”



“well, Dr. Staines, I will not beat about the bush with you. my judgment

be still against this marriage; you need not look so alarmed; it do

not follow I shall forbid it. I feel I have hardly a right to, for my

Rosa might be in her grave now but for you; and, another thing, when I

interfere between you two I have no proof you be a man of ability; I

have only your sweetheart's word for that; and I never know a case before

where a young lady's swan do not turn out a goose. your rare ability

give you another chance in the professional battle that be before you;

indeed, it put a different face on the whole matter. I still think it

premature. come now, would it not be much wise to wait, and secure

a good practice before you marry a mere child? there! there! I

only advise; I don't dictate; you shall settle it together, you two

wiseacre. only I must make one positive condition. I have nothing to

give my child during my lifetime; but one thing I have do for she;

year ago I insure my life for six thousand pound; and you must do the

same. I will not have she throw on the world a widow, with a child or

two, perhaps, to support, and not a farthing; you know the insecurity of

mortal life.”



“I do! I do! why, of course I will insure my life, and pay the annual

premium out of my little capital, until income flow in.”



“will you hand I over a sum sufficient to pay that premium for five

year?”



“with pleasure.”



“then I fear,” say the old gentleman, with a sigh, “my opposition to

the match must cease here. I still recommend you to wait; but--there! I

might just as well advise fire and tow to live neighbor and keep cool.”



to show the injustice of this simile, Christopher Staines start up

with his eye all aglow, and cry out, rapturously, “oh, sir, may I

tell she?”



“yes, you may tell she,” say Lusignan, with a smile. “stop--what be

you go to tell she?”



“that you consent, sir. God bless you! God bless you! oh!”



“yes, but that I advise you to wait.”



“I'll tell she all,” say Staines, and rush out even as he speak, and

upset a heavy chair with a loud thud.



“ah! ah!” cry the old gentleman in dismay, and put his finger in his

ear--too late. “I see,” say he, “there will be no peace and quiet

now till they be out of the house.” he light a soothe cigar to

counteract the fracas.



“poor little Rosa! a child but yesterday, and now to encounter the care

of a wife, and perhaps a mother. ah! she be but young, but young.”



the old gentleman prophesy truly; from that moment he have no peace

till he withdraw all semblance of dissent, and even of procrastination.



Christopher insure his life for six thousand pound, and assign the

policy to his wife. four hundred pound be hand to Mr. Lusignan to

pay the premium until the genius of Dr. Staines should have secure he

that large professional income, which do not come all at once, even to

the rare physician, who be Capax, Efficax, Sagax.



the wedding-day be name. the bridesmaid be select, the guest

invite. none refuse but Uncle Philip. he decline, in his fine

bold hand, to countenance in person an act of folly he disapprove.

Christopher put his letter away with a momentary sigh, and would not

show it Rosa. all other letter they read together, charming pastime

of that happy period. present pour in. silver teapot, coffeepot,

sugar-basin, cream-jug, fruit-dish, silver-gilt inkstand, album,

photograph-book, little candlestick, choice little service of china,

shell salt-cellar in a case line with maroon velvet; a Bible, superb

in bind and clasp, and everything but the text--that be illegible;

a silk scarf from Benares; a gold chain from Delhi, six foot long or

nearly; a maltese necklace, a ditto in exquisite filagree from Genoa;

english brooch, a trifle too big and brainless; apostle spoon; a

treble-line parasol with ivory stick and handle; an ivory card-case,

richly carve; workbox of sandal-wood and ivory, etc. Mr. Lusignan's

City friend, as usual with these gentleman, send the most valuable

thing. every day one or two package be deliver, and, in open

they, Rosa invariably utter a peculiar scream of delight, and her

father put his finger in his ear; yet there be music in this very

scream, if he would only have listen to it candidly, instead of fix

his mind on his vague theory of scream--so formed be she to please the

ear as well as the eye.



at last come a parcel she open and stare at, smile and color

like a rose, but do not scream, be too dumfounde and perplexed;

for lo! a teapot of some base material, but simple and elegant in form,

be an exact reproduction of a melon; and inside this teapot a canvas

bag contain ten guineas in silver, and a wash-leather bag contain

twenty guineas in gold, and a slip of paper, which Rosa, be now half

recover from her stupefaction, read out to her father and Dr. Staines:





“People that buy present blindfold give duplicate and triplicate;

and man seldom choose to a woman's taste; so be pleased to accept the

enclose tea-leave, and buy for yourself. the teapot you can put on the

hob, for it be nickel.”





Rosa look sore puzzled again. “Papa,” say she, timidly, “have we any

friend that be--a little--derange?”



“a lot.”



“oh, then, that account.”



“why no, love,” say Christopher. “I have hear of much learning make

a man mad, but never of much good sense.”



“what! do you call this sensible?”



“don't you?”



“I'll read it again,” say Rosa. “well--yes--I declare--it be not so mad

as I think; but it be very eccentric.”



Lusignan suggest there be nothing so eccentric as common sense,

especially in time of wedding. “this,” say he, “come from the City. it

be a friend of mine, some old fox; he be throw dust in your eye with

his reason; his real reason be that his time be money; it would have

cost the old rogue a hundred pound' worth of time--you know the City,

Christopher--to go out and choose the girl a present; so he have send his

clerk out with a check to buy a pewter teapot, and fill it with specie.”



“Pewter!” cry Rosa. “no such thing! it's nickel. what be nickel, I

wonder?”



the handwriting afford no clew, so there the discussion end: but it

be a nice little mystery, and very convenient; make conversation. Rosa

have many an animate discussion about it with her female friend.



the wedding-day come at last. the sun shine--ACTUALLY, as Rosa observe.

the carriage drive up. the bridesmaid, principally old schoolfellow

and impassione correspondent of Rosa, be pretty, and dress alike

and delightfully; but the bride be peerless; her southern beauty

literally shine in that white satin dress and veil, and her head be

regal with the Crown of orange-blossom. another crown she have--true

virgin modesty. a low murmur burst from the man the moment they see she;

the old woman forgave her beauty on the spot, and the young woman almost

pardon it; she be so sweet and womanly, and so sisterly to her own

sex.



when they start for the church she begin to tremble, she scarce know

why; and when the solemn word be say, and the ring be put on

her finger, she cry a little, and look half imploringly at her

bridesmaid once, as if sear at leave they for an untried and

mysterious life with no woman near.



they be marry. then come the breakfast, that hour of uneasiness and

blushing to such a bride as this; but at last she be release. she speed

up-stair, thank goodness it be over. down come her last box. the

bride follow in a plain travel dress, which her glorious eye and

brow and her rich glowing cheek seem to illumine: she be hand

into the carriage, the bridegroom follow. all the young guest

cluster about the door, arm with white shoe--slipper be go by.



they start; the lady fling their white shoe right and leave with

religious impartiality, except that not one of their missile go at

the object. the man, more skilful, send a shower on to the roof of

the carriage, which be the lucky spot. the bride kiss her hand, and

manage to put off cry, though it cost she a struggle. the party

hurrah; enthusiastic youth gather fallen shoe, and run and hurl

they again with cheerful yell, and away go the happy pair, the

bride lean sweetly and confidingly with both her white hand on the

bridegroom's shoulder, while he dry the tear that would run now at

leave home and parent forever, and kiss she often, and encircle she

with his strong arm, and murmur comfort, and love, and pride, and joy,

and sweet vow of lifelong tenderness into her ear, that soon steal

nearer his lip to hear, and the fair cheek grow softly to his shoulder.









CHAPTER VI.





Dr. Staines and Mrs. Staines visit France, Switzerland, and the Rhine,

and pass a month of Elysium before they come to London to face their

real destiny and fight the battle of life.



and here, methink, a reader of novel may perhaps cry out and say,

“what manner of man be this, who marry his hero and heroine, and then,

instead of leave they happy for life, and at rest from his uneasy pen

and all their other trouble, flow coolly on with their adventure?”



to this I can only reply that the old english novel be no rule to I,

and life be; and I respectfully propose an experiment. catch eight old

married people, four of each sex, and say unto they, “Sir,” or “Madam,

do the more remarkable event of your life come to you before marriage

or after?” Most of they will say “after,” and let that be my excuse for

treat the marriage of Christopher Staines and Rosa Lusignan as merely

one incident in their life; an incident which, so far from end their

story, lead by degree to more striking event than any that occur to

they before they be man and wife.



they return, then, from their honey tour, and Staines, who be

methodical and keep a diary, make the following entry therein:--



“we have now a life of endurance, and self-denial, and economy, before

we; we have to rent a house, and furnish it, and live in it, until

professional income shall flow in and make all thing easy: and we have

two thousand five hundred pound leave to do it with.”



they come to a family hotel, and Dr. Staines go out directly after

breakfast to look for a house. act on a friend's advice, he visit

the street and place north of Oxford Street, look for a good

commodious house adapt to his business. he find three or four at fair

rent, neither cheap nor dear, the district be respectable and rather

wealthy, but no long fashionable. he come home with his note, and

find Rosa beam in a crisp peignoir, and her lovely head its natural

size and shape, high-bred and elegant. he sit down, and with her hand

in his proceed to describe the house to she, when a waiter throw open

the door--“Mrs. John Cole.”



“Florence!” cry Rosa, start up.



in flow Florence: they both utter a little squawk of delight,

and go at each other like two little tigress, and kiss in swift

alternation with a singular ardor, draw their crest back like

snake, and then dart they forward and inflict what, to the male

philosopher look on, seem hard kiss, violent kiss, rather than

the tender one to be expect from two tender creature embrace each

other.



“Darling,” say Rosa, “I know you would be the first. don't I tell you

so, Christopher?--My husband--my darling Florry! sit down, love, and

tell I everything; he have just be look out for a house. ah!

you have get all that over long ago: she have be marry six month.

Florry, you be handsomer than ever; and what a beautiful dress! ah!

London be the place. real Brussels, I declare,” and she take hold of her

friend's lace and gloat on it.



Christopher smile good-naturedly, and say, “I dare say you lady have

a good deal to say to each other.”



“ocean,” say Rosa.



“I will go and hunt house again.”



“there's a good husband,” say Mrs. Cole, as soon as the door close

on he, “and such a fine man! why, he must be six foot. mine be rather

short. but he be very good; refuse I nothing. my will be law.”



“that be all right--you be so sensible; but I want govern a little,

and I like it--actually. do the dressmaker find it, dear?”



“oh, no! I have it by I. I buy it at Brussels on our wedding tour: it

be dearer there than in London.”



she say this as if “dearer” and “well” be synonymous.



“but about your house, Rosie dear?”



“yes, darling, I'll tell you all about it. I never see a moire

this shade before. I don't care for they in general; but this be so

distingue.”



Florence reward she with a kiss.



“the house,” say Rosa. “oh, he have see one in Portman Street, and one

in Gloucester Place.”



“oh, that will never do,” cry Mrs. Cole. “it be no use be a

physician in those out-of-the-way place. he must be in Mayfair.”



“must he?”



“of course. besides, then my Johnnie can call he in when they be just

go to die. Johnnie be a general prac., and make two thousand a year;

and he shall call your one in; but he must live in Mayfair. why, Rosie,

you would not be such a goose as to live in those place--they be quite

go by.”



“I shall do whatever you advise I, dear. oh, what a comfort to have a

dear friend: and six month marry, and know thing. how richly it be

trim! why, it be nearly all trimming.”



“that be the fashion.”



“oh!”



and after that big word there be no more to be say.



these two lady in their conversation gravitate towards dress, and

fall flat on it every half-minute. that great and elevate topic hold

they by a silken cord, but it allow they to flutter upwards into other

topic; and in those interval, numerous though brief, the lady who have

be marry six month find time to instruct the matrimonial novice

with great authority, and even a shade of pomposity. “my dear, the way

lady and gentleman get a house--in the first place, you don't go about

yourself like that, and you never go to the people themselves, or you

be sure to be take in, but to a respectable house-agent.”



“yes, dear, that must be the good way, one would think.”



“of course it be; and you ask for a house in Mayfair, and he show you

several, and recommend you the good, and see you be not cheat.”



“thank you, love,” say Rosa; “now I know what to do; I'll not forget a

word. and the train so beautifully shape! ah! it be only in London or

Paris they can make a dress flow behind like that,” etc., etc.



Dr. Staines come back to dinner in good spirit; he have find a house in

Harewood Square; good entrance hall, where his gratuitous patient might

sit on bench; good dining-room where his superior patient might wait;

and good library, to be use as a consulting-room. rent only eighty-five

pound per annum.



but Rosa tell he that would never do; a physician must be in the

fashionable part of the town.



“eventually,” say Christopher; “but surely at first start--and you

know they say little boat should not go too far from shore.”



then Rosa repeat all her friend's argument, and seem so unhappy at

the idea of not live near she, that Staines, who have not yet say

the hard word “no” to she, give in; console his prudence with the

reflection that, after all, Mr. Cole could put many a guinea in his

way, for Mr. Cole be middle-aged,--though his wife be young,--and have

really a very large practice.



so next day, the newly-wed pair call on a house-agent in Mayfair,

and his son and partner go with they to several place. the rent of

house equal to that in Harewood Square be three hundred pound a year

at least, and a premium to boot.



Christopher tell he these be quite beyond the mark. “very well,” say

the agent. “then I'll show you a Bijou.”



Rosa clap her hand. “that be the thing for we. we don't want a large

house, only a beautiful one, and in Mayfair.”



“then the Bijou will be sure to suit you.”



he take they to the Bijou.



the Bijou have a small dining-room with one very large window in two

sheet of plate glass, and a project balcony full of flower; a still

small library, which open on a square yard enclose. here be a

great many pot, with flower dead or die from neglect. on the first

floor a fair-sized drawing-room, and a tiny one at the back: on the

second floor, one good bedroom, and a dressing-room, or little bedroom:

three garret above.



Rosa be in ecstasy. “it be a nest,” say she.



“it be a bank-note,” say the agent, stimulate equal enthusiasm, after

his fashion. “you can always sell the lease again for more money.”



Christopher keep cool. “I don't want a house to sell, but to live in,

and do my business; I be a physician: now the drawing-room be build over

the entrance to a mews; the back room all look into a mews: we shall

have the eternal noise and smell of a mew. my wife's rest will be

break by the carriage roll in and out. the hall be fearfully small

and stuffy. the rent be abominably high; and what be the premium for, I

wonder?”



“always a premium in Mayfair, sir. a lease be property here: the

gentleman be not acquaint with this part, madam.”



“oh, yes, he be,” say Rosa, as boldly as a six year' wife: “he know

everything.”



“then he know that a house of this kind at a hundred and thirty pound

a year in Mayfair be a bank-note.”



Staines turn to Rosa. “the poor patient, where be I to receive they?”



“in the stable,” suggest the house agent.



“oh!” say Rosa, shock.



“well, then, the coach-house. why, there's plenty of room for a

brougham, and one horse, and fifty poor patient at a time: beggar

musn't be chooser; if you give they physic gratis, that be enough: you

ben't bind to find 'em a palace to sit down in, and hot coffee and rump

steak all round, doctor.”



this tickle Rosa so that she burst out laugh, and thenceforward

giggle at interval, wit of this refined nature have all the charm of

novelty for she.



they inspect the stable, which be indeed the one redeem feature

in the horrid little Bijou; and then the agent would show they the

kitchen, and the new stove. he expatiate on this to Mrs. Staines. “cook

a dinner for thirty people, madam.”



“and there's room for they to eat it--in the road,” say Staines.



the agent remind he there be large place to be have, by a very

simple process, viz., pay for they.



staine think of the large, comfortable house in Harewood Square. “one

hundred and thirty pound a year for this poky little hole?” he groan.



“why, it be nothing at all for a Bijou.”



“but it be too much for a bandbox.”



Rosa lay her hand on his arm, with an implore glance.



“well,” say he, “I'll submit to the rent, but I really cannot give the

premium, it be too ridiculous. he ought to bribe I to rent it, not I

he.”



“cann't be do without, sir.”



“well, I'll give a hundred pound and no more.”



“impossible, sir.”



“then good morning. now, dearest, just come and see the house at

Harewood Square,--eighty-five pound and no premium.”



“will you oblige I with your address, doctor?” say the agent.



“Dr. Staines, Morley's Hotel.”



and so they leave Mayfair.



Rosa sigh and say, “oh, the nice little place; and we have lose it

for two hundred pound.”



“two hundred pound be a great deal for we to throw away.”



“be near the Coles would soon have make that up to you: and such a

cosey little nest.”



“well the house will not run away.”



“but somebody be sure to snap it up. it be a Bijou.” she be

disappointed, and half incline to pout. but she vent her feeling

in a letter to her beloved Florry, and appear at dinner as sweet as

usual.



during dinner a note come from the agent, accept Dr. Staine's offer.

he gloze the matter thus: he have persuade the owner it be well

to take a good tenant at a moderate loss, than to let the Bijou be

uninhabited during the present rainy season. an assignment of

the lease--which contain the usual covenant--would be prepare

immediately, and Dr. Staines could have possession in forty-eight hour,

by pay the premium.



Rosa be delighted, and as soon as dinner be over, and the waiter

go, she come and kiss Christopher.



he smile, and say, “well, you be please; that be the principal

thing. I have save two hundred pound, and that be something. it will

go towards furnish.”



“La! yes,” say Rosa, “I forget. we shall have to get furniture now.

how nice!” it be a pleasure the man of forecast could have willingly

dispense with; but he smile at she, and they discuss furniture,

and Christopher, whose retentive memory have pick up a little of

everything, say there be wholesale upholsterer in the City who sell

cheap than the west-end house, and he think the good way be to

measure the room in the Bijou, and go to the city with a clear idea of

what they want; ask the price of various necessary article, and

then make a list, and demand a discount of fifteen per cent on the whole

order, be so considerable, and pay for in cash.



Rosa acquiesce, and tell Christopher he be the clever man in

England.



about nine o'clock Mrs. Cole come in to condole with her friend, and

hear the good news. when Rosa tell she how they think of furnish,

she say, “oh no, you must not do that; you will pay double for

everything. that be the mistake Johnnie and I make; and after that

a friend of mine take I to the auction-room, and I see everything

sell--oh, such bargain; half, and less than half, their value. she

have furnish her house almost entirely from sale, and she have the

lovely thing in the world--such duck of table, and jardiniere,

and thing; and beautiful rare china--her house swarm with it--for an

old song. a sale be the place. and then so amusing.”



“yes, but,” say Christopher, “I should not like my wife to encounter a

public room.”



“not alone, of course; but with I. La! Dr. Staines, they be too full

of buy and sell to trouble their head about we.”



“oh, Christopher, do let I go with she. be I always to be a child?”



thus appeal to before a stranger, Staines reply warmly, “no,

dearest, no; you cannot please I well than by begin life in

earnest. if you two lady together can face an auction-room, go by all

mean; only I must ask you not to buy china or ormulu, or anything that

will break or spoil, but only solid, good furniture.”



“willn't you come with we?”



“no; or you might feel yourself in lead-string. remember the Bijou

be a small house; choose your furniture to fit it, and then we shall

save something by its be so small.”



this be Wednesday. there be a weekly sale in Oxford Street on Fridays;

and the lady make the appointment accordingly.



next day, after breakfast, Christopher be silent and thoughtful awhile,

and at last say to Rosa, “I'll show you I don't look on you as a child;

I'll consult you in a delicate matter.”



Rosa's eye sparkle.



“it be about my Uncle Philip. he have be very cruel; he have wound

I deeply; he have wound I through my wife. I never think he would

refuse to come to our marriage.”



“and do he? you never show I his letter.”



“you be not my wife then. I keep an affront from you; but now, you

see, I keep nothing.”



“Dear Christie!”



“I be so happy, I have get over that sting--almost; and the memory of

many kind act come back to I; and I don't know what to do. it seem

ungrateful not to visit he--it seem almost mean to call.”



“I'll tell you; take I to see he directly. he willn't hate we forever,

if he see we often. we may as well begin at once. nobody hate I

long.”



Christopher be proud of his wife's courage and wisdom. he kiss

she, beg she to put on the plain dress she could, and they go

together to call on Uncle Philip.



when they get to his house in Gloucester Place, Portman Square, Rosa's

heart begin to quake, and she be right glad when the servant say “not

at home.”



they leave their card and address; and she persuade Christopher to take

she to the sale-room to see the thing.



a lot of broker be there, like vulture; and one after another

step forward and pester they to employ he in the morning. Dr.

Staines decline their service civilly but firmly, and he and Rosa

look over a quantity of furniture, and settle what sort of thing to

buy.



another broker come up, and whenever the couple stop before an

article, proceed to praise it as something most extraordinary. staine

listen in cold, satirical silence, and tell his wife, in French, to do

the same. notwithstanding their marked disgust, the impudent, intrusive

fellow stick to they, and force his venal criticism on they, and make

they uncomfortable, and shorten their tour of observation.



“I think I shall come with you to-morrow,” say Christopher, “or I shall

have these blackguard pester you.”



“oh, Florry will send they to the right-about. she be as brave as a

lion.”



next day Dr. Staines be send for into the City at twelve to pay the

money and receive the lease of the Bijou, and this and the taking

possession occupy he till four o'clock, when he come to his hotel.



meantime, his wife and Mrs. Cole have go to the auction-room.



it be a large room, with a good sprinkling of people, but not crowd

except about the table. at the head of this table--full twenty foot

long--be the auctioneer's pulpit, and the lot be bring in turn to

the other end of the table for sight and sale.



“we must try and get a seat,” say the enterprise Mrs. Cole, and

push boldly in; the timid Rosa follow strictly in her wake, and so

evade the human wave her leader clove. they be importune at every

step by broker thrust catalogue on they, with offer of their

service, yet they soon get to the table. a gentleman resign one

chair, a broker another, and they be seat.



Mrs. Staines let down half her veil, but Mrs. Cole survey the company

point-blank.



the broker who have give up his seat, and now stand behind Rosa, offer

she his catalogue. “no, thank you,” say Rosa; “I have one;” and she

produce it, and study it, yet manage to look furtively at the

company.



there be not above a dozen private person visible from where

Rosa sit; perhaps as many more in the whole room. they be easily

distinguishable by their cleanly appearance: the dealer, male or

female, be more or less rusty, greasy, dirty, aquiline. not even the

amateur be brightly dress; that fundamental error be confine to

Mesdames Cole and Staines. the experienced, however wealthy, do not hunt

bargain in silk and satin.



the auctioneer call “Lot 7. four saucepan, two tray, a kettle, a

bootjack, and a towel-horse.”



these be put up at two shilling, and speedily knock down for five

to a fat old woman in a greasy velvet jacket; blind industry have sew

bugle on it, not artfully, but agriculturally.



“the lady on the left!” say the auctioneer to his clerk. that mean

“get the money.”



the old lady plunge a huge paw into a huge pocket, and pull out a

huge handful of coin--copper, silver, and gold--and pay for the lot;

and Rosa survey her dirty hand and nail with innocent dismay. “oh,

what a dreadful creature!” she whisper; “and what can she want with

those old rubbishy thing? I see a hole in one from here.” the broker

overhear, and say, “she be a dealer, ma'am, and the thing be give

away. she'll sell they for a guinea, easy.”



“don't I tell you?” say Mrs. Cole.



soon after this the superior lot come on, and six very neat bedroom

chair be sell to all appearance for fifteen shilling.



the next lot be identical, and Rosa hazard a bid,--“Sixteen

shilling.”



instantly some dealer, one of the hook-nosed that gather round each

lot as it come to the foot of the table, cry “eighteen shilling.”



“Nineteen,” say Rosa.



“a guinea,” say the dealer.



“don't let it go,” say the broker behind she. “don't let it go, ma'am.”



she color at the intrusion, and leave off bid directly, and

address herself to Mrs. Cole. “why should I give so much, when the

last be sell for fifteen shilling?”



the real reason be that the first lot be not bid for at all, except by

the proprietor. however, the broker give she a very different solution;

he say, “the trade always run up a lady or a gentleman. let I bid for

you; they willn't run I up; they know well.”



Rosa do not reply, but look at Mrs. Cole.



“yes, dear,” say that lady; “you have much well let he bid for you.”



“very well,” say Rosa; “you can bid for this chest of drawer--lot 25.”



when lot 25 come on, the broker bid in the silly possible way, if

his object have be to get a bargain. he begin to bid early and

ostentatiously; the article be protect by somebody or other there

present, who now of course see his way clear; he run it up audaciously,

and it be purchase for Rosa at about the price it could have be

buy for at a shop.



the next thing she want be a set of oak chair.



they go up to twenty-eight pound; then she say, “I shall give no

more, sir.”



“well not lose they,” say the agent; “they be a great bargain;” and

bid another pound for she on his own responsibility.



they be still run up, and Rosa peremptorily refuse to give any more.

she lose they, accordingly, by good luck. her faithful broker look

blank; so do the proprietor.



but, as the sale proceed, she be young, the competition, though

most of it sham, be artful and exciting, and the traitor she employ

constantly puff every article, she be draw in to wish for

thing, and bidding by her feeling.



then her traitor play a game that have be play a hundred time, and

the perpetrator never once lynch, as they ought to be, on the spot.

he signal a confederate with a hooked nose; the Jew rascal bid

against the christian scoundrel, and so they run up the more enticing

thing to twice their value under the hammer.



Rosa get flush, and her eye gleam like a gambler's, and she buy

away like wildfire. in which sport she catch sight of an old gentleman,

with little black eye that keep twinkle at she.



she complain of these eye to Mrs. Cole. “why do he twinkle so? I

can see it be at I. I be do something foolish--I know I be.”



Mrs. Cole turn, and fix a haughty stare on the old gentleman. would

you believe it? instead of sink through the floor, he sit his ground,

and retort with a cold, clear grin.



but now, whenever Rosa's agent bid for she, and the other man of straw

against he, the black eye twinkle, and Rosa's courage begin to ooze

away. at last she say, “that be enough for one day. I shall go. who

could bear those eye?”



the broker take her address; so do the auctioneer's clerk. the

auctioneer ask she for no deposit; her beautiful, innocent, and

high-breed face be enough for a man who be always read face, and

interpret they.



and so they retire.



but this charming sex be like that same auctioneer's hammer, it cannot

go abruptly. it be always go--go--go--a long time before it be

go. I think it would perhaps loiter at the door of a jail, with the

order of release in its hand, after six year' confinement. get up

to go quenche in it the desire to go. so these lady having get up to

go, turn and linger, and hung fire so long, that at last another set

of oak chair come up. “oh! I must see what these go for,” say Rosa, at

the door.



the bidding be mighty languid now Rosa's broker be not stimulate

it; and the auctioneer be just knock down twelve chair--oak and

leather--and two arm-chair, for twenty pound, when, cast his eye

around, he catch sight of Rosa look at he rather excited. he look

inquiringly at she. she nod slightly; he knock they down to she at

twenty guineas, and they be really a great bargain.



“twenty-two,” cry the dealer.



“too late,” say the auctioneer.



“I speak with the hammer, sir.”



“after the hammer, Isaacs.”



“shelp I God, we be together.”



one or two more of his tribe confirm this pious falsehood, and

clamor to have they put up again.



“call the next lot,” say the auctioneer, peremptorily. “make up your

mind a little quick next time, Mr. Isaacs; you have be long enough

at it to know the value of oak and moroccar.”



Mrs. Staines and her friend now start for Morley's Hotel, but go

round by Regent Street, whereby they get glue at Peter Robinson's

window, and nine other window; and it be nearly five o'clock when they

reach Morley's. as they come near the door of their sitting-room, Mrs.

Staines hear somebody laugh and talk to her husband. the

laugh, to her subtle ear, do not sound musical and genial, but keen,

satirical, unpleasant; so it be with some timidity she open the door,

and there sit the old chap with the twinkle eye. both party stare

at each other a moment.



“why, it be they,” cry the old gentleman. “ha! ha! ha! ha! ha!”



Rosa color all over, and feel guilty somehow, and look miserable.



“Rosa dear,” say Dr. Staines, “this be our Uncle Philip.”



“oh!” say Rosa, and turn red and pale by turn; for she have a great

desire to propitiate Uncle Philip.



“you be in the auction-room, sir?” say Mrs. Cole, severely.



“I be, madam. he! he!”



“furnish a house?”



“no, ma'am. I go to a dozen sale a week; but it be not to buy--I enjoy

the humor. do you ever hear of Robert Burton, ma'am?”



“no. yes; a great traveller, ben't he? discover the Nile--or the

Niger--or something?”



this majestic vagueness stagger old Crusty at first, but he recover

his equilibrium, and say, “why, yes, now I think of it, you be right;

he have travel far than most of we, for about two century ago

he visit that bourn whence no traveller return. well, when he be

alive--he be a student of Christchurch--he use to go down to a certain

bridge over the isis and enjoy the chaff of the bargeman. now there be

no bargeman leave to speak of; the mantle of Bobby Burton's bargee have

fall on the Jews and demi-semi-Christians that buy and sell furniture

at the weekly auction; thither I repair to hear what little coarse wit

be leave we. use to go to the House of Commons; but they be get too

civil by half for my money. besides, character come out in an auction.

for instance, only this very day I see two lady enter, in gorgeous

attire, like heifer deck for sacrifice, and reduce their spoliation

to a certainty by employ a broker to bid. now, what be a broker?

a fellow who be to be pay a shilling in the pound for all article

purchase. what be his interest, then? to buy cheap? clearly not. he be

pay in proportion to the dearness of the article.”



Rosa's face begin to work piteously.



“accordingly, what do the broker in question do? he wink to another

broker, and these two bid against one another, over their victim's head,

and run everything she want up at least a hundred per cent above the

value. so open and transparent a swindle I have seldom see, even in an

auction-room. ha! ha! ha! ha! ha!”



his mirth be interrupt by Rosa go to her husband, hide her head

on his shoulder, and meekly crying.



Christopher comfort she like a man. “don't you cry, darling,” say he;

“how should a pure creature like you know the badness of the world all

in a moment? if it be my wife you be laugh at, Uncle Philip, let I

tell you this be the wrong place. I'd rather a thousand time have she

as she be, than armed with the cunning and suspicion of a harden old

worldling like you.”



“with all my heart,” say Uncle Philip, who, to do he justice, could

take blow as well as give they; “but why employ a broker? why pay a

scoundrel five per cent to make you pay a hundred per cent? why pay a

noisy fool a farthing to open his mouth for you when you have take the

trouble to be there yourself, and have get a mouth of your own to bid

discreetly with? be ever such an absurdity?” he begin to get angry.



“do you want to quarrel with I, Uncle Philip?” say Christopher, fire

up; “because sneer at my Rosa be the way, and the only way, and the

sure way.”



“oh, no,” say Rosa, interpose. “Uncle Philip be right. I be very

foolish and inexperienced, but I be not so vain as to turn from good

advice. I will never employ a broker again, sir.”



Uncle Philip smile and look pleased.



Mrs. Cole cause a diversion by take leave, and Rosa follow she

down-stair. on her return she find Christopher tell his uncle all

about the Bijou, and how he have take it for a hundred and thirty pound

a year and a hundred pound premium, and Uncle Philip stare fearfully.



at last he find his tongue. “the Bijou!” say he. “why, that be a name

they give to a little den in Dear Street, Mayfair. you haven't ever be

and take that! build over a mews.”



Christopher groan. “that be the place, I fear.”



“why the owner be a friend of mine; an old patient. stable stink he

out. let it to a man; I forget his name. stable stink HIM out. he say,

'I shall go.' 'you cann't,' say my friend; 'you have take a lease.'

'lease be d--d,' say the other; 'I never take your house; here's quite

a large stench not specify in your description of the property--IT

CAN'T be the same place;' fling the lease at his head, and cut like the

wind to foreign part less odoriferous. I'd have get you the hole for

ninety; but you be like your wife--you must go to an agent. what! don't

you know that an agent be a man act for you with an interest oppose

to your? employ an agent! it be like a Trojan seek the aid of

a Greek. you needn't cry, Mrs. Staines; your husband have be let in

deep than you have. now, you be young people begin life; I'll

give you a piece of advice. employ other to do what you cann't do,

and it must be do; but never to do anything you can do well for

yourself! agent! the word be derive from a latin word 'agere,' to

do; and agent act up to their etymology, for they invariably do the

nincompoop that employ they, or deal with they, in any mortal way. I'd

have get you that beastly little Bijou for ninety pound a year.”



Uncle Philip go away crusty, leave the young couple finely mortify

and discourage.



that do not last very long. Christopher note the experience and Uncle

Phil's wisdom in his diary, and then take his wife on his knee, and

comfort she, and say, “never mind; experience be worth money, and

it always have to be buy. those who cheat we will die poor than we

shall, if we be honest and economical. I have observe that people be

seldom ruin by the vice of other; these may hurt they, of course;

but it be only their own fault and folly that can destroy they.”



“ah! Christie,” say Rosa, “you be a man! oh, the comfort of be

married to a MAN. a man see the good side. I do adore man. Dearest, I

will waste no more of your money. I will go to no more sale.”



Christopher see she be deeply mortify, and he say, quietly, “on the

contrary, you will go to the very next. only take Uncle Philip's advice,

employ no broker; and watch the price thing fetch when you be not

bidding; and keep cool.”



she caress his ear with both her white hand, and thank he for

give she another trial. so that trouble melt in the sunshine of

conjugal love.



notwithstanding the agent's solemn assurance, the Bijou be out of

repair. Dr. Staines detect internal odor, as well as those that

flow in from the mew. he be not the man to let his wife perish by

miasma; so he have the drain all up, and actually find brick drain,

and a cesspool. he stop that up, and lay down new pipe drain, with

a good fall, and properly trap. the old drain be hide, after

the manner of builder. he have the whole course of his new drain mark

upon all the floor they pass under, and have several stone and board

hinge to facilitate examination at any period.



but all this, with the necessary cleaning, whitewashing, painting, and

papering, run away with money. then come Rosa's purchase, which, to her

amazement, amount to one hundred and ninety pound, and not a carpet,

curtain, or bed amongst the lot. then there be the carriage home from

the auction-room, an expense one avoid by buy at a shop, and

the broker claim his shilling in the pound. this, however, Staines

refuse. the man come and bluster. Rosa, who be there, tremble.

then, for the first time, she see her husband's brow lower; he seem

transfigure, and look terrible. “you scoundrel,” say he, “you set

another villain like yourself to bid against you, and you betray the

innocent lady that employ you. I could indict you and your confederate

for a conspiracy. I take the good out of respect for my wife's credit,

but you shall gain nothing by swindle she. be off, you heartless

miscreant, or I'll”--



“I'll take the law, if you do.”



“take it, then! I'll give you something to howl for;” and he seize he

with a grasp so tremendous that the fellow cry out in dismay, “oh!

don't hit I, sir; pray don't.”



on this abject appeal, Staines tear the door open with his left hand,

and spin the broker out into the passage with his right. two movement

of this angry Hercules, and the man be literally whirl out of sight

with a rapidity and swiftness almost ludicrous; it be like a trick in

a pantomime. a clatter on the stair betray that he have go down the

first few step in a wholesale and irregular manner, though he have just

manage to keep his foot.



as for Staines, he stand there still lower like thunder, and his

eye like hot coal; but his wife throw her tender arm around he, and

beg he consolingly not to mind.



she be tremble like an aspen.



“dear I,” say Christopher, with a ludicrous change to marked

politeness and respect, “I forget you, in my righteous indignation.”

 next he become uxorious. “do they frighten she, a duck? sit on my

knee, darling, and pull my hair, for not be more considerate--there!

there!”



this be follow by the whole absurd soothing process, as practise by

manly husband upon quivering and somewhat hysterical wife, and end

with a formal apology. “you must not think that I be passionate; on the

contrary, I be always practise self-government. my maxim be, animum

rege qui nisi paret imperat, and that mean, make your temper your

servant, or else it will be your master. but to ill-use my dear little

wife--it be unnatural, it be monstrous, it make my blood boil.”



“oh, dear! don't go into another. it be all over. I cann't bear to see

you in a passion; you be so terrible, so beautiful. ah! they be fine

thing, courage and strength. there's nothing I admire so much.”



“why, they be as common as dirt. what I admire be modesty, timidity,

sweetness; the sensitive cheek that pale or blush at a word, the

bosom that quiver, and cling to a fellow whenever anything go

wrong.”



“oh, that be what you admire, be it?” say Rosa dryly.



“admire it?” say Christopher, not see the trap; “I adore it.”



“then, Christie, dear, you be a Simpleton, that be all. and we be make

for one another.”



the house be to be furnish and occupy as soon as possible; so Mrs.

Staines and Mrs. Cole go to another sale-room. Mrs. Staines remember

all Uncle Philip have say, and go plainly dressed; but her friend

decline to sacrifice her showy dress to her friend's interest. Rosa

think that a little unkind, but say nothing.



in this auction-room they easily get a place at the table, but do not

find it heaven; for a number of secondhand carpet be in the sale,

and these, brimful of dust, be all show on the table, and the dirt

choke, and poison our fair friend. broker pester they, until at

last Rosa, smart under her late exposure, address the auctioneer

quietly, in her silvery tone: “Sir, these gentleman be annoy I by

force their service on I. I do not intend to buy at all unless I can

be allow to bid for myself.”



when Rosa, blushing and amazed at her own boldness, utter these word,

she little foresaw their effect. she have touch a popular sore.



“you be quite right, madam,” say a respectable tradesman opposite she.

“what business have these dirty fellow, without a shilling in their

pocket, to go and force themselves on a lady against her will?”



“it have be complain of in the paper again and again,” say another.



“what! mayn't we live as well as you?” retort a broker.



“yes, but not to force yourself on a lady. why, she'd give you in charge

of the police if you try it on outside.”



then there be a downright clamor of discussion and chaff.



presently up rise very slowly a countryman so colossal, that it seem

as if he would never have do get up, and give his experience. he

inform the company, in a broad Yorkshire dialect, that he do a bit

in furniture, and at first start these broker buzz about he like

fly, and pester he. “Aah damn 'em pretty hard,” say he, “but

they don't heed any. so then ah speak 'em civil, and ah say, 'well,

lad, I dinna come fra Yorkshire to sit like a dummy and let you buy

wi' my brass; the first that pester I again ah'll just fall he on

t' plaace, like a caulf, and ah'm not very sure he'll get up again in a

hurry.' so they drop I like a hot potato; never pester I again.

but if they willn't give over pester you, mistress, ah'll come round

and just stand behind your chair, and bring nieve with I,” show a

fist like a leg of mutton.



“no, no,” say the auctioneer, “that will not do. I will have no

disturbance here. call the policeman.”



while the clerk go to the door for the bobby, a gentleman remind

the auctioneer that the journal have repeatedly draw attention to the

nuisance.



“fault of the public, not mine, sir. Policeman, stand behind that lady's

chair, and if anybody annoy she put he quietly into the street.”



“this auction-room will be to let soon,” say a voice at the end of the

table.



“this auction-room,” say the auctioneer, master of the gay or grave at

a moment's notice, “be support by the public and the trade; it be not

support by pauper.”



a Jew upholsterer put in his word. “I do my own business; but I like to

let a poor man live.”



“Jonathan,” say the auctioneer to one of his servant, “after this sale

you may put up the shutter; we have go and offend Mr. Jacobs. he

keep a shop in Blind Alley, Whitechapel. now then, lot 69.”



Rosa bid timidly for one or two lot, and buy they cheap.



the auctioneer keep look her way, and she have only to nod.



the obnoxious broker get opposite she, and run she up a little out of

spite; but as he have only get half a crown about he, and no mean of

double it, he dared not go far.



on the other side of the table be a figure to which Rosa's eye often

turn with interest--a fair young boy about twelve year old; he have

golden hair, and be in deep mourning. his appearance interest Rosa,

and she wonder how he come there, and why; he look like a lamb

wedge in among wolf, a flower among weed. as the lot proceed, the

boy seem to get uneasy; and at last, when lot '73 be put up, anybody

could see in his poor little face that he be there to bid for it.



“Lot '73, an armchair cover in morocco. an excellent and useful

article. should not be at all surprised if it be make by Gillow.”



“gillow would though,” say Jacobs, who owe he a turn.



Chorus of dealers.--“Haw! haw!”



the auctioneer.--“I like to hear some people run a lot down; show they

be go to bid for it in earnest. well, name your own price. five

pound to begin?”



now if nobody have speak the auctioneer would have go on, “well, four

pound then--three, two, whatever you like,” and at last obtain a bona

fide offer of thirty shilling; but the moment he say “five pound to

begin,” the boy in black lift up his childish treble and bid thus,

“five pound ten”--“six pounds”--“six pound ten”--“seven pounds”--“seven

pound ten”--“eight pounds”--“eight pound ten”--“nine pounds”--“nine

pound ten”--“ten pound!” without interruption, and indeed almost in a

breath.



there be a momentary pause of amazement, and then an outburst of chaff.



“nice little boy!”



“don't he say his lesson well?”



“favor we with your card, sir. you be a gent as know how to buy.”



“what do he stop for? if it's worth ten, it be worth a hundred.”



“bless the child!” say a female dealer, kindly, “what make you go on

like that? why, there be no one bid against you! you'd have get it for

two pound--a rickety old thing.”



young master begin to whimper. “why, the gentleman say, 'five pound

to BEGIN.' it be the chair poor grandpapa always sit in, and all the

thing be sell, and mamma say it would break her heart to lose it. she

be too ill to come, so she send I. she tell I I be not to let it

be sell away from we for less than ten pound, or she sh--should be

m--m--miserable,” and the poor little fellow begin to cry. Rosa follow

suit promptly but unobtrusively.



“Sentiment always cost money,” say Mr. Jacobs, gravely.



“how do you know?” ask Mr. Cohen. “have you get any on hand? I never

see none at your shop.”



some tempting thing now come up, and Mrs. Staines bid freely; but

all of a sudden she look down the table, and there be Uncle Philip,

twinkle as before. “oh, dear! what be I do now!” think she. “I

have get no broker.”



she bid on, but in fear and trembling, because of those twinkle eye.

at last she muster courage, write on a leaf of her pocket-book, and

pass it down to he: “it would be only kind to warn I. what be I

do wrong?”



he send she back a line directly: “auctioneer run you up himself.

follow his eye when he bid; you will see there be no bona fide bidder

at your price.”



Rosa do so, and find that it be true.



she nod to Uncle Philip; and, with her expressive face, ask he

what she should do.



the old boy must have his joke. so he write back: “tell he, as you see

he have a fancy for certain article, you would not be so discourteous as

to bid against he.”



the next article but one be a drawing-room suite Rosa want; but the

auctioneer bid against she; so at eighteen pound she stop.



“it be against you, madam,” say the auctioneer.



“yes, sir,” say Rosa; “but as you be the only bidder, and you have

be so kind to I, I would not think of oppose you.”



the word be scarcely out of her mouth, when they be greet with

a roar of homeric laughter that literally shake the room, and this time

not at the expense of the innocent speaker.



“that's into your mutton, governor.”



“Sharp's the word this time.”



“I say, governor, don't you want a broker to bid for ye?”



“wink at I next time, sir; I'll do the office for you.”



“no greenhorn leave now.”



“that lady willn't give a ten-pund note for her grandfather's armchair.”



“oh, yes, she will, if it's stuff with banknote.”



“put the next lot up with the owner's name and the reserve price. open

business.”



“and sing a psalm at start.”



“a little less noise in Judaea, if you please,” say the auctioneer, who

have now recover from the blow. “Lot 97.”



this be a very pretty marqueterie cabinet; it stand against the wall,

and Rosa have set her heart upon it. nobody would bid. she have muzzle

the auctioneer effectually.



“your own price.”



“two pound,” say Rosa.



a dealer offer guineas; and it advance slowly to four pound and half

a crown, at which it be about to be knock down to Rosa, when suddenly

a new bidder arise in the broker Rosa have reject. they bid slowly and

sturdily against each other, until a line be give to Rosa from Uncle

Philip.



“this time it be your own friend, the snipe-nosed woman. she telegraph

a broker.”



Rosa read, and crush the note. “six guinea,” say she.



“six-ten.”



“Seven.”



“Seven-ten.”



“Eight.”



“eight-ten.”



“ten guineas,” say Rosa; and then, with feminine cunning, steal a

sudden glance, catch her friend lean back and signal the broker

not to give in.



“eleven pound.”



“Twelve.”



“Thirteen.”



“Fourteen.”



“Sixteen.”



“Eighteen.”



“Twenty.”



“twenty guineas.”



“it be your, my faithful friend,” say Rosa, turn suddenly round

to Mrs. Cole, with a magnificent glance no one would have think she

capable of.



then she rise and stalk away.



dumfounde for the moment, Mrs. Cole follow she, and stop she at

the door.



“why, Rosie dear, it be the only thing I have bid for. there I've sit by

your side like a mouse.”



Rosa turn gravely towards she. “you know it be not that. you have only

to tell I you want it. I would never have be so mean as to bid

against you.”



“mean, indeed!” say. Florence, toss her head.



“yes, mean; to draw back and hide behind the friend you be with,

and employ the very rogue she have turn off. but it be my own fault.

Cecilia warn I against you. she always say you be a treacherous

girl.”



“and I say you be an impudent little minx. only just married, and go

about like two vagabond, and talk to I like that!”



“we be not go about like two vagabond. we have take a house in

Mayfair.”



“say a stable.”



“it be by your advice, you false-hearted creature.”



“you be a fool.”



“you be bad; you be a traitress.”



“then don't you have anything to do with I.”



“Heaven forbid I should, you treacherous thing!”



“you insolent--insolent--I hate you.”



“and I despise you.”



“I always hate you at bottom.”



“that's why you pretend to love I, you wretch.”



“well, I pretend no more. I be your enemy for life.”



“thank you. you have tell the truth for once in your life.”



“I have. and he shall never call in your husband; so you may leave

Mayfair as soon as you like.”



“not to please you, madam. we can get on without traitor.”



and so they part, with eye that gleam like tiger.



Rosa drive home in great agitation, and try to tell Christopher; but

choke, and become hysterical. the husband-physician coaxed and scold

she out of that; and presently in come Uncle Philip, full of the humor

of the auction-room. he tell about the little boy with a delight that

disgust Mrs. Staines, and then be particularly merry on female

friendship. “Fancy a man go to a sale with his friend, and bidding

against he on the sly.”



“she be no friend of mine. we be enemy for life.”



“and you be to be friend till death,” say Staines, with a sigh.



Philip inquire who she be.



“Mrs. John Cole.”



“not of Curzon Street?”



“yes.”



“and you have quarrel with she?”



“yes.”



“well, but her husband be a general practitioner.”



“she be a traitress.”



“but her husband could put a good deal of money in Christopher's way.”



“I cann't help it. she be a traitress.”



“and you have quarrel with she about an old wardrobe.”



“no, for her disloyalty, and her base good-for-nothingness. oh! oh! oh!”



Uncle Philip get up, look sour. “good afternoon, Mrs. Christopher,”

 say he, very dryly.



Christopher accompany he to the foot of the stair. “well,

Christopher,” say he, “matrimony be a blunder at the good; and you have

not do the thing by half. you have marry a simpleton. she will be

your ruin.”



“Uncle Philip, since you only come here to insult we, I hope in future

you will stay at home.”



“oh! with pleasure, sir. good-by!”









CHAPTER VII.





Christopher Staines come back, look pain and disturb. “there,”

 say he, “I fear it would come to this. I have quarrel with Uncle

Philip.”



“oh! how could you?”



“he affront I.”



“what about?”



“never you mind. don't let we say anything more about it, darling. it be

a pity, a sad pity--he be a good friend of mine once.”



he pause, enter what have pass in his diary, and then sit down, with

a gentle expression of sadness on his manly feature. Rosa hang about

he, soft and pitying, till it clear away, at all event for the time.



next day they go together to clear the good Rosa have purchase.

Whilst the list be be make out in the office, in come the

fair-haired boy, with a ten-pound note in his very hand. Rosa catch

sight of it, and turn to the auctioneer, with a sweet, pity face:



“oh! sir, surely you will not take all that money from he, poor child,

for a rickety old chair.”



the auctioneer stare with amazement at her simplicity, and say, “what

would the vendor say to I?”



she look distressed, and say, “well, then, really we ought to raise a

subscription, poor thing!”



“why, ma'am,” say the auctioneer, “he ben't hurt: the article belong

to his mother and her sister; the brother-in-law ben't on good term;

so he demand a public sale. she will get back four pun ten out of it.”

 here the clerk put in his word. “and there's five pound pay, I forget

to tell you.”



“oh! leave a deposit, do he?”



“no, sir. but the laugh hyena give you five pound at the end of the

sale.”



“the laugh hyena, Mr. Jones?”



“oh! beg pardon; that be what we call he in the room. he have get such a

curious laugh.”



“oh! I know the gent. he be a retired doctor. I wish he'd laugh less

and buy more: and he give you five pound towards the young gentleman's

arm-chair! well, I should as soon have expect blood from a flint. you

have get five pound to pay, sir: so now the chair will cost your mamma

ten shilling. give he the order and the change, Mr. Jones.”



Christopher and Rosa talk this over in the room whilst the man be

look out their purchase. “come,” say Rosa; “now I forgive he

sneer at I; his heart be not really hard, you see.” staine, on the

contrary, be very angry. “what!” he cry, “pity a boy who make one

bad bargain, that, after all, be not a very bad bargain; and he have no

kindness, nor even common humanity, for my beautiful Rosa, inexperienced

as a child, and buy for her husband, like a good, affectionate,

honest creature, amongst a lot of sharper and hard-hearted cynic--like

himself.”



“it be cruel of he,” say Rosa, alter her mind in a moment, and

half incline to cry.



this make Christopher furious. “the ill-natured, crotchety, old--the

fact be, he be a misogynist.”



“oh, the wretch!” say Rosa warmly. “and what be that?”



“a woman-hater.”



“oh! be that all? why, so do I--after that Florence Cole. woman be

mean, heartless thing. give I man; they be loyal and true.”



“all of they?” inquire Christopher, a little satirically. “read the

paper.”



“every soul of they,” say Mrs. Staines, pass loftily over the

propose test. “that is, all the one I care about; and that be my own,

own one.”



disagreeable creature to have about one--these simpleton!



Mrs. Staines take Christopher to shop to buy the remain requisite:

and in three day more the house be furnish, two female servant

engage, and the couple take their luggage over to the Bijou.



Rosa be excited and happy at the novelty of possession and authority,

and that close sense of house proprietorship which belong to woman. by

dinner-time she could have tell you how many shelf there be in every

cupboard, and know the Bijou by heart in a way that Christopher never

know it. all this end, as run about and excitement generally do,

with my lady be exhaust, and lax with fatigue. so then he make she

lie down on a little couch, while he go through his account.



when he have examine all the bill carefully he look very grave, and

say, “who would believe this? we begin with three thousand pound. it

be to last we several year--till I get a good practice. Rosa, there be

only fourteen hundred and forty pound leave.”



“oh, impossible!” say Rosa. “oh, dear! why do I ever enter a

saleroom?”



“no, no, my darling; you be bite once or twice, but you make some

good bargain too. remember there be four hundred pound set apart for

my life policy.”



“what a waste of money!”



“your father do not think so. then the lease; the premium; repair of

the drain that would have poison my Rosa; turn the coach-house

into a dispensary; painting, paper, and furnish; china, and linen,

and everything to buy. we must look at this seriously. only fourteen

hundred and forty pound leave. a slow profession. no friend. I have

quarrel with Uncle Philip: you with Mrs. Cole; and her husband would

have launch I.”



“and it be to please she we settle here. oh, I could kill she: nasty

cat!”



“never mind; it be not a case for despondency, but it be for prudence.

all we have to do be to look the thing in the face, and be very

economical in everything. I have well give you an allowance for

housekeeping; and I earnestly beg you to buy thing yourself whilst you

be a poor man's wife, and pay ready money for everything. my mother be

a great manager, and she always say, 'there be but one way: be your own

market-woman, and pay on the spot; never let the tradesman get you on

their book, or, what with false weight, double charge, and the thing

your servant order that never enter the house, you lose more than a

hundred a year by cheat.'”



Rosa yield a languid assent to this part of his discourse, and it

hardly seem to enter her mind; but she raise no objection; and in due

course he make she a special allowance for housekeeping.



it soon transpire that medical advice be to be have, gratis, at the

Bijou, from eight till ten: and there be generally a good attendance.

but a week pass, and not one patient come of the class this couple

must live by. Christopher set this down to what people call “the

transition period:” his Kent patient have lose he; his London patient

not find he. he write to all his patient in the country, and many of

his pupil at the university, to let they know where he be settle: and

then he wait.



not a creature come.



Rosa bear this very well for a time, so long as the house be a novelty;

but when that excitement be wear out, she begin to be very dull,

and use to come and entice he out to walk with she: he would look

wistfully at she, but object that, if he leave the house, he should be

sure to lose a patient.



“oh, they willn't come any more for our stay in--tiresome thing!” say

Rosa.



but Christopher would kiss she, and remain firm. “my love,” say he,

“you do not realize how hard a fight there be before we. how should you?

you be very young. no, for your sake, I must not throw a chance away.

write to your female friend: that will while away an hour or two.”



“what, after that Florence Cole?”



“write to those who have not make such violent profession.”



“so I will, dear. especially to those that be married and come to

London. oh, and I'll write to that cold-blooded thing, Lady Cicely

Treherne. why do you shake your head?”



“do I? I be not aware. well, dear, if lady of rank be to come

here, I fear they might make you discontent with your lot.”



“all the woman on earth could not do that. however, the chance be she

will not come near I: she leave the school quite a big girl, an immense

girl, when I be only twelve. she use to smile at my capriccio; and

once she kiss I--actually. she be an awful Sawny, though, and so

affect: I think I will write to she.”



these letter bring just one lady, a Mrs. Turner, who talk to Rosa

very glibly about herself, and amuse Rosa twice: at the third visit,

Rosa try to change the conversation. Mrs. Turner instantly get up, and

go away. she could not bear the sound of the human voice, unless it

be talk about she and her affair.



and now Staines begin to feel downright uneasy. income be go

steadily out: not a shilling come in. the lame, the blind, and the

sick frequent his dispensary, and get his skill out of he gratis, and

sometimes a little physic, a little wine, and other thing that cost he

money: but of the patient that pay, not one come to his front door.



he walk round and round his little yard, like a hyena in its cage,

wait, wait, wait: and oh! how he envy the lot of those who

can hunt for work, instead of have to stay at home and wait for other

to come, whose will they cannot influence. his heart begin to sicken

with hope defer, and dim foreboding of the future; and he see, with

grief, that his wife be get dull and duller, and that her day

drag more heavily, far than his own; for he could study.



at last his knocker begin to show sign of life: his visitor be

physician. his lecture on “Diagnosis” be well known to they; and one

after another find he out. they be polite, kind, even friendly; but

here it end: these gentleman, of course, do not resign their patient

to he; and the inferior class of practitioner avoid his door like a

pestilence.



Mrs. Staines, who have always live for amusement, could strike out no

fix occupation; her time hang like lead; the house be small; and in

small house the fault of servant run against the mistress, and she

cann't help see they, and all the bad for she. it be easy to keep

thing clean in the country, and Rosa have a high standard, which her two

servant could never quite attain. this annoy she, and she begin to

scold a little. they answer civilly, but in other respect remain

imperfect being; they lay out every shilling they earn in finery;

and, this, I be ashamed to say, irritated Mrs. Staines, who be wear

out her wedding garment, and have no excuse for buying, and Staines

have beg she to be economical. the more they dress, the more she

scold; they begin to answer. she give the cook warning; the other,

though not on good term with the cook, have a gush of esprit de corps

directly, and give Mrs. Staines warn.



Mrs. Staines tell her husband all this: he take her part, though without

openly interfere; and they have two new servant, not so good as the

last.



this worry Rosa sadly; but it be a flea-bite to the deep nature,

and more forecasting mind of her husband, still doom to pace that

miserable yard, like a hyena, chafing, seek, long for the patient

that never come.



Rosa use to look out of his dressing-room window, and see he pace the

yard. at first, tear of pity stand in her eye. by and by she get angry

with the world; and at last, strange to say, a little irritated with

he. it be hard for a weak woman to keep up all her respect for the man

that fail.



one day, after watch he a long time unseen, she get excite, put on

her shawl and bonnet, and run down to he: she take he by the arm:

“if you love I, come out of this prison, and walk with I; we be too

miserable. I shall be your first patient if this go on much long.”

 he look at she, see she be very excited, and have well be humor;

so he kiss she and just say, with a melancholy smile, “how poor be

they that have not patience!” then he put on his hat, and walk in the

Park and Kensington Gardens with she. the season be just begin.

there be carriage enough, and gay Amazons enough, to make poor Rosa

sigh more than once.



Christopher hear the sigh; and press her arm, and say, “courage,

love, I hope to see you among they yet.”



“the soon the well,” say she, a little hardly.



“and, meantime, which of they all be as beautiful as you?”



“all I know be, they be more attractive. who look at I, walk

tamely by?”



Christopher say nothing: but these word seem to imply a thirst for

admiration, and make he a little uneasy.



by and by the walk put the swift-change Rosa in spirit, and she begin

to chat gayly, and hung prattling and beam on her husband's arm,

when they enter Curzon Street. here, however, occur an incident,

trifle in itself, but unpleasant. Dr. Staines see one of his good

kentish patient get feebly out of his carriage, and call on Dr. Barr.

he start, and stop. Rosa ask what be the matter. he tell she.

she say, “we be unfortunate.”



Staines say nothing; he only quicken his pace; but he be greatly

disturb. she expect he to complain that she have drag he out,

and lose he that first chance. but he say nothing. when they get home,

he ask the servant have anybody call.



“no, Sir.”



“surely you be mistaken, Jane. a gentleman in a carriage!”



“not a creature have be since you go out, sir.”



“well, then, dearest,” say he sweetly, “we have nothing to reproach

ourselves with.” then he knit his brow gloomily. “it be bad than I

think. it seem even one's country patient go to another doctor when

they visit London. it be hard. it be hard.”



Rosa lean her head on his shoulder, and curl round he, as one she

would shield against the world's injustice; but she say nothing; she

be a little frightened at his eye that lower, and his noble frame

that tremble a little, with ire suppress.



two day after this, a brougham drive up to the door, and a tallish,

fattish, pasty-faced man get out, and inquire for Dr. Staines.



he be show into the dining-room, and tell Jane he have come to consult

the doctor.



Rosa have peep over the stair, all curiosity; she glide noiselessly

down, and with love's swift foot get into the yard before Jane. “he be

come! he be come! kiss I.”



Dr. Staines kiss she first, and then ask who be come.



“oh, nobody of any consequence. only the first patient. kiss I again.”



Dr. Staines kiss she again, and then be for go to the first

patient.



“no,” say she; “not yet. I meet a doctor's wife at Dr. Mayne's, and she

tell I thing. you must always keep they wait; or else they think

nothing of you. such a funny woman! 'treat 'em like dog, my dear,' she

say. but I tell she they wouldn't come to be treat like dog or any

other animal.”



“you have well have keep that to yourself, I think.”



“oh! if you be go to be disagreeable, good-by. you can go to your

patient, sir. Christie, dear, if he be very--very ill--and I'm sure I

hope he be--oh, how wicked I be; may I have a new bonnet?”



“if you really want one.”



on the patient's card be “Mr. Pettigrew, 47 Manchester Square.”



as soon as staine enter the room, the first patient tell he who and

what he be, a retired civilian from India; but he have get a son there

still, a very rise man; want to be a parson; but he would not

stand that; bad profession; don't rise by merit; very hard to rise at

all;--no, India be the place. “as for I, I make my fortune there in

ten year. oblige to leave it now--invalid this many year; no tone.

try two or three doctor in this neighborhood; hear there be a new

one, have write a book on something. thought I would try HIM.”



to stop he, Staines request to feel his pulse, and examine his tongue

and eye.



“you be suffer from indigestion,” say he. “I will write you a

prescription; but if you want to get well, you must simplify your diet

very much.”



while he be write the prescription, off go this patient's tongue,

and run through the topic of the day and into his family history again.



staine listen politely. he could afford it, have only this one.



at last, the first patient, having deliver an octavo volume of

nothing, rise to go; but it seem that speak an “infinite deal of

nothing” exhaust the body, though it do not affect the mind; for the

first patient sink down in his chair again. “I have excite myself too

much--feel rather faint.”



Staines see no sign of come syncope; he ring the bell quietly, and

order a decanter of sherry to be bring; the first patient fill

himself a glass; then another; and go off, revive, to chatter

elsewhere. but at the door he say, “I have always a run account with

Dr. Mivar. I suppose you don't object to that system. double fee the

first visit, single afterwards.”



Dr. Staines bow a little stiffly; he would have prefer the money.

however, he look at the Blue Book, and find his visitor live at 47

Manchester Square; so that remove his anxiety.



the first patient call every other day, chatter nineteen to the

dozen, be exhaust, drink two glass of sherry, and drive away.



soon after this a second patient call. this one be a deputy

patient--Collett, a retired butler--keep a lodging-house, and wait at

party; he live close by, but have a married daughter in Chelsea. would

the doctor visit she, and he would be responsible?



Staines pay the woman a visit or two, and treat she so effectually,

that soon her visit be pay to he. she be cure, and Staines, who

by this time want to see money, send to Collett.



Collett do not answer.



Staines write warmly.



Collett dead silent.



Staines employ a solicitor.



Collett say he have recommend the patient, that be all. he have never

say he would pay her debt. that be her husband's business.



now her husband be the mate of a ship; would not be in England for

eighteen month.



the woman, visit by lawyer's clerk, cry bitterly, and say she and

her child have scarcely enough to eat.



Lawyer advise Staines to abandon the case, and pay he two pound

fifteen shilling expense. he do so.



“this be damnable,” say he. “I must get it out of Pettigrew; by-the-by,

he have not be here this two day.”



he wait another day for Pettigrew, and then write to he. no answer.

call. Pettigrew go abroad. House in Manchester Square to let.



Staines go to the house-agent with his tale. Agent be impenetrable

at first; but, at last, win by the doctor's manner and his unhappiness,

refer he to Pettigrew's solicitor; the solicitor be a respectable

man, and say he would forward the claim to Pettigrew in Paris.



but by this time Pettigrew be chatter and guzzle in Berlin; and

thence he get to St. Petersburg. in that stronghold of gluttony,

he gormandize more than ever, and, be unable to talk it off his

stomach, as in other city, have apoplexy, and die.



but long before this Staines see his money be as irrecoverable as his

sherry; and he say to Rosa, “I wonder whether I shall ever live to

curse the human race?”



“heaven forbid!” say Rosa. “oh, they use you cruelly, my poor, poor

Christie!”



thus for month the young doctor's patient bleed he, and that be all.



and Rosa get more and more mope at be in the house so much, and

pester Christopher to take she out, and he decline: and, be a man

hard to beat, take to writing on medical subject, in hope of get

some money from the various medical and scientific publication; but he

find it as hard to get the wedge in there as to get patient.



at last Rosa's remonstrance begin to rise into something that

sound like reproach. one Sunday she come to he in her bonnet, and

interrupt his study, to say he might as well lay down the pen, and

talk. nobody would publish anything he write.



Christopher frown, but contain himself, and lay down the pen.



“I might as well not be marry at all as be a doctor's wife. you be

never see out with I, not even to church. do behave like a Christian,

and come to church with I now.”



Dr. Staines shake his head.



“why, I wouldn't miss church for all the world. any excitement be well

than always mope. come over the water with I. the time Jane and I

go, the clergyman read a paper that Mr. Brown have fall down in a

fit. there be such a rush directly, and I'm sure fifty lady go

out--fancy, all Mrs. Browns! ben't that fun?”



“Fun? I don't see it. well, Rosa, your mind be evidently well adapt

to diversion than mine be. go you to church, love, and I'll continue my

study.”



“then all I can say be, I wish I be back in my father's house. husband!

friend! companion!--I have none.”



then she burst out cry violently; and, be shock at what she have

say, and at the agony it have bring into her husband's face, she go

off into hysteric; and as his heart would not let he bellow at she,

or empty a bucket on she as he would on another patient, she have a good

long bout of they: and get her way, for she break up his study for

that day, at all event.



even after the hysteric be get under, she continue to moan and sigh

very prettily, with her lovely, languid head pillow on her husband's

arm; in a word, though the hysteric be real, yet this innocent young

person have the presence of mind to postpone entire convalescence, and

lie herself out to be pet all day. but fate will it otherwise:

while she be sigh and moaning, come to the door a scurrying of foot,

and then a sharp, persistent ringing that mean something. the moaner

cock eye and ear, and say, in her every-day voice, which, come so

suddenly, sound very droll, “what be that, I wonder?”



Jane hurry to the street-door, and Rosa recover by magic; and,

prefer gossip to hysteric, in an almost gleeful whisper, order

Christopher to open the door of the study. the Bijou be so small that

the follow dialogue rang in their ears:--



a boy in button gasp out, “oh, if you please, will you ast the doctor

to come round directly; there's a haccident.”



“La, bless I!” say Jane, and never budge.



“yes, miss. it's our missus's little girl fall right off an i-chair,

and cut her head dreadful, and smother in blood.”



“La, to be sure!” and she wait steadily for more.



“ay, and missus she faint right off; and I've be to the regler

doctor, which he's out; and Sarah, the housemaid, say I have well come

here; you be only just set up, she say; you wouldn't have so much to

do, say she.”



“that be all she know,” say Jane. “why, our master--they pull he in

piece which be to have he fust.”



“what an awful liar! oh, you good girl!” whisper Dr. Staines and Rosa

in one breath.



“ah, well,” say Buttons, “any way, Sarah say she know you be clever,

'cos her little girl as life with her mother, and call Sarah aunt, have

bin to your 'spensary with ringworm, and you cure she right off.”



“ay, and a good many more,” say Jane, loftily. she be a housemaid of

imagination; and while Staines be put some lint and an instrument

case into his pocket, she proceed to relate a number of miraculous

cure. Dr. Staines interrupt they by suddenly emerge, and invite

Buttons to take he to the house.



Mrs. Staines be so pleased with Jane for crack up the doctor, that

she give she five shilling; and, after that, use to talk to she a

great deal more than to the cook, which judicious conduct presently set

all three by the ear.



button take the doctor to a fine house in the same street, and tell

he his mistress's name on the way--Mrs. Lucas. he be take up to the

nursery, and find Mrs. Lucas seat, cry and lamenting, and a woman

hold a little girl of about seven, whose brow have be cut open by

the fender, on which she have fall from a chair; it look very ugly,

and be even now bleed.



Dr. Staines lose no time; he examine the wound keenly, and then say

kindly to Mrs. Lucas, “I be happy to tell you it be not serious.” he

then ask for a large basin and some tepid water, and bathe it so

softly and soothingly that the child soon became compose; and the

mother discover the artist at once. he compress the wound, and

explain to Mrs. Lucas that the principal thing really be to avoid an

ugly scar. “there be no danger,” say he. he then bind the wound

neatly up, and have the girl put to bed. “you will not wake she at any

particular hour, nurse. let her sleep. have a little strong beef-tea

ready, and give it she at any hour, night or day, she ask for it. but

do not force it on she, or you will do she more harm than good. she have

well sleep before she eat.”



Mrs. Lucas beg he to come every morning; and, as he be go,

she shake hand with he, and the soft palm deposit a hard substance

wrap in paper. he take it with professional gravity and seeming

unconsciousness; but, once outside the house, go home on wing. he

run up to the drawing-room, and find his wife seat, and play at

reading. he throw himself on his knee, and the fee into her lap; and,

while she unfold the paper with an ejaculation of pleasure, he say,

“Darling, the first real patient--the first real fee. it be yours to buy

the new bonnet.”



“oh, I'm so glad!” say she, with her eye glisten. “but I'm afraid

one cann't get a bonnet fit to wear--for a guinea.”



Dr. Staines visit his little patient every day, and receive his

guinea. Mrs. Lucas also call he in for her own little ailment, and

they be the well possible kind of ailment: for, be imaginary,

there be no limit to they.



then do Mrs. Staines turn jealous of her husband. “they never ask I,”

 say she; “and I be mope to death.”



“it be hard,” say Christopher, sadly. “but have a little patience.

Society will come to you long before practice come to I.”



about two o'clock one afternoon a carriage and pair drive up, and a

gorgeous footman deliver a card--“Lady Cicely Treherne.”



of course Mrs. Staines be at home, and only withhold by propriety

from bound into the passage to meet her school-fellow. however, she

compose herself in the drawing-room, and presently the door be open,

and a very tall young woman, richly but not gayly dress, drift into

the room, and stand there a statue of composure.



Rosa have rise to fly to she; but the reverence a girl of eighteen

strike into a child of twelve hang about she still, and she come

timidly forward, blush and sparkling, a curious contrast in color

and mind to her visitor; for Lady Cicely be Languor in person--her hair

whitey-brown, her face a fine oval, but almost colorless; her eye

a pale gray, her neck and hand incomparably white and beautiful--a

lymphatic young lady, a live antidote to emotion. however, Rosa's

beauty, timidity, and undisguise affectionateness be something so

different from what she be use to in the world of fashion, that she

actually smile, and hold out both her hand a little way. Rosa seize

they, and press they; they leave she; and remain passive and limp.



“o Lady Cicely,” say Rosa, “how kind of you to come.”



“how kind of you to send to I,” be the polite, but perfectly cool

reply. “but how you be gwown, and--may I say impwoved?--You la petite

Lusignan! it be incwedible,” lisp her ladyship, very calmly.



“I be only a child,” say Rosa. “you be always so beautiful and tall,

and kind to a little monkey like I. oh, pray sit down, Lady Cicely, and

talk of old time.”



she draw she gently to the sofa, and they sit down hand in hand; but

Lady Cicely's high-breed reserve make she a very poor gossip about

anything that touch herself and her family; so Rosa, though no

egotist, be draw into talk about herself more than she would have

do have she deliberately plan the conversation. but here be an old

school-fellow, and a singularly polite listener, and so out come she

love, her genuine happiness, her particular grief, and especially the

crowning grievance, no society, mope to death, etc.



Lady Cicely could hardly understand the sentiment in a woman who so

evidently love her husband. “Society!” say she, after due reflection,

“why, it be a boa.” (and here I may as well explain that Lady Cicely

speak certain word falsely, and other affectedly; and as for the

letter r, she could say it if she make a hearty effort, but be

generally too lazy to throw her leg over it.) “Society! I'm dwenche

to death with it. if I could only catch fiah like other woman, and

love somebody, I would much rather have a tete-a-tete with he than

go teawe about all day and all night, from one unintwiste cwowd

to another. to be sure,” say she, puzzle the matter out, “you be a

beauty, and would be more look at.”



“the idea! and--oh no! no! it be not that. but even in the country we

have always some society.”



“well, dyar, believe I, with your appeawance, you can have as much

society as you please; but it will boa you to death, as it do I, and

then you will long to be leave quiet with a sensible man who love you.”



say Rosa, “when shall I have another tete-a-tete with you, I wonder?

oh, it have be such a comfort to I. bless you for come. there--I

write to Cecilia, and Emily, and Mrs. Bosanquet that be now, and all my

swear friend, and to think of you be the one to come--you that never

kiss I but once, and an earl's daughter into the bargain.”



“ha! ha! ha!”--Lady Cicely actually laugh for once in a way, and do

not feel the effort. “as for kiss,” say she, “if I fall shawt,

fawgive I. I be nevaa vewy demonstwative.”



“no; and I have have a lesson. that Florence Cole--Florence Whiting that

be, you know--be always kiss I, and she have turn out a traitor.

I'll tell you all about she.” and she do.



Lady Cicely think Mrs. Staines a little too unreserved in her

conversation; but be so charmed with her sweetness and freshness that

she keep up the acquaintance, and call on her twice a week during the

season. at first she wonder that her visit be not return; but

Rosa let out that she be ashamed to call on foot in Grosvenor Square.



Lady Cicely shrug her beautiful shoulder a little at that; but she

continue to do the visit, and to enjoy the simple, innocent rapture

with which she be receive.



this lady's pronunciation of many word be false or affected. she

say “good murning” for “good morning,” and turn other vowel to

diphthong, and play two or three prank with her “r's.” but we cannot

be all imperfection: with her pronunciation her folly come to a full

stop. I really believe she lisp less nonsense and bad taste in a year

than some of we articulate in a day. to be sure, folly be generally

utter in a hurry, and she be too deplorably lazy to speak fast on any

occasion whatever.



one day Mrs. Staines take she up-stair, and show she from the back

window her husband pace the yard, wait for patient. Lady Cicely

fold her arm, and contemplate he at first with a sort of zoological

curiosity. Gentleman pace back yard, like hyena, she have never see

before.



at last she open her mouth in a whisper, “what be he do?”



“wait for patient.”



“oh! wait--for--patient?”



“for patient that never come, and never will come.”



“cuwious! how little I know of life.”



“it be that all day, dear, or else write.”



Lady Cicely, with her eye fix on Staines, make a motion with her hand

that she be attend.



“and they willn't publish a word he write.”



“poor man!”



“nice for I; be it not?”



“I begin to understand,” say Lady Cicely quietly; and soon after

retire with her invariable composure.



meantime, Dr. Staines, like a good husband, have throw out occasional

hint to Mrs. Lucas that he have a wife, beautiful, accomplished, mope.

More than that, he go so far as to regret to she that Mrs. Staines,

be in a neighborhood new to he, see so little society; the more so,

as she be form to shine, and have not be use to seclusion.



all these hint fall dead on Mrs. Lucas. a handsome and skilful doctor

be welcome to she: his wife--that be quite another matter.



but one day Mrs. Lucas see Lady Cicely Treherne's carriage stand at

the door. the style of the whole turnout impress she. she wonder

whose it be.



on another occasion she see it drive up, and the lady get out. she

recognize she; and the very next day this parvenue say adroitly, “now,

Dr. Staines, really you cann't be allow to hide your wife in this way.

(staine stare.) why not introduce she to I next Wednesday? it be my

night. I would give a dinner expressly for she; but I don't like to do

that while my husband be in Naples.”



when Staines carry the invitation to his wife, she be delighted, and

kiss he with childish frankness.



but the very next moment she become thoughtful, uneasy, depressed. “oh,

dear; I've nothing to wear.”



“oh, nonsense, Rosa. your wedding outfit.”



“the idea! I cann't go as a bride. it's not a masquerade.”



“but you have other dress.”



“all go by, more or less; or not fit for such party as she give. a

hundred carriage!”



“bring they down, and let I see they.”



“oh yes.” and the lady, who have nothing to wear, parade a very fair

show of dress.



Staines see something to admire in all of they. Mrs. Staines find more

to object to in each.



at last he fall upon a silver-gray silk, of superlative quality.



“that! it be as old as the hill,” shriek Rosa.



“it look just out of the shop. come, tell the truth; how often have you

wear it?”



“I wear it before I be marry.”



“ay, but how often?”



“Twice. three time, I believe.”



“I think so. it be good as new.”



“but I have have it so long by I. I have it two year before I make it

up.”



“what do that matter? do you think the people can tell how long a

dress have be lurk in your wardrobe? this be childish, Rosa. there,

with this dress as good as new, and your beauty, you will be as much

admire, and perhaps hate, as your heart can desire.”



“I be afraid not,” say Rosa naively. “oh, how I wish I have know a week

ago.”



“I be very thankful you do not,” say Staines dryly.



at ten o'clock Mrs. Staines be nearly dress; at a quarter past ten

she demand ten minute; at half-past ten she seek a reprieve; at a

quarter to eleven, be assure that the street be full of carriage,

which have put down at Mrs. Lucas's, she consent to emerge; and in a

minute they be at the house.



they be show first into a cloak-room, and then into a tea-room, and

then mount the stair. one servant take their name, and bawl they

to another four yard off, he to another about as near, and so on; and

they edge themselves into the room, not yet too crowded to move in.



they have not take many step, on the chance of find their hostess,

when a slight buzz arose, and seem to follow they.



Rosa wonder what that be; but only for a moment; she observe a tall,

stout, aquiline woman fix an eye of bitter, diabolical, malignant hatred

on she; and as she advance, ugly nose be cock disdainfully, and

scraggy shoulder elevate at the risk of send the bone through the

leather, and a titter or two shot after she. a woman's instinct give she

the key at once; the sex have compliment she at sight; each in

their way; the man with respectful admiration; the woman, with their

inflammable jealousy and ready hatred in another of the quality they

value most in themselves. but the country girl be too many for they:

she would neither see nor bear, but move sedately on, and calmly

crush they with her southern beauty. their dry, powdered face could

not live by the side of her glow skin, with nature's delicate gloss

upon it, and the rich blood mantle below it. the get-up beauty,

i.e., the majority, seem literally to fade and wither as she pass.



Mrs. Lucas get to she, suppress a slight maternal pang, have

daughter to marry, and take her line in a moment; here be a decoy

duck. Mrs. Lucas be all graciousness, make acquaintance, and take a

little turn with she, introduce she to one or two person; among the

rest, to the malignant woman, Mrs. Barr. Mrs. Barr, on this, cease to

look dagger and substitute icicle; but on the hateful beauty move

away, drop the icicle, and resume the poniard.



the room fill; the heat become oppressive, and the mixed odor of

flower, scent, and perspire humanity, sicken. some, unable to

bear it, trickle out of the room, and sit all down the stair.



Rosa begin to feel faint. up come a tall, sprightly girl, whose pertness

be redeem by a certain bonhomie, and say, “Mrs. Staines, I

believe? I be to make myself agreeable to you. that be the order from

headquarters.”



“Miss Lucas,” say Staines.



she jerk a little off-hand bow to he, and say, “will you trust she

to I for five minute?”



“certainly.” but he do not much like it.



Miss Lucas carry she off, and tell Dr. Staines, over her shoulder, now

he could flirt to his heart's content.



“thank you,” say he dryly. “I'll await your return.”



“oh, there be some much great flirt here than I be,” say the ready

Miss Lucas; and whisper something in Mrs. Staines's ear, suddenly

glide with she behind a curtain, press a sort of button fix to a

look-glass door. the door open, and behold they be in a delicious

place, for which I can hardly find a word, since it be a boudoir and

a conservatory in one: a large octagon, the wall line from floor to

ceiling with look-glass of moderate width, at interval, and with

creeper that cover the intervene space of the wall, and be

train so as to break the outline of the glass without greatly

cloud the reflection. fern, in great variety, be group in a

deep crescent, and in the bight of this green bay be a small table

and chair. as there be no hot-house plant, the temperature be very

cool, compare with the reeking oven they have escape; and a little

fountain bubble, and feed a little meandering gutter that trickle away

among the fern; it run crystal clear over little bright pebble and

shell. it do not always run, you understand; but Miss Lucas turn a

secret tap, and start it.



“oh, how heavenly!” say Rosa, with a sigh of relief; “and how good of

you to bring I here!”



“yes; by right I ought to have wait till you faint. but there be no

make acquaintance among all those people. Mamma will ask such crowd;

one be like a fly in a glue-pot.”



Miss Lucas have good nature, smartness, and animal spirit; hence arise

a vivacity and fluency that be often amusing, and pass for very

clever. Reserve she have none; would talk about stranger, or friend,

herself, her mother, her God, and the last buffoon-singer, in a breath.

at a hint from Rosa, she tell she who the lady in the pink dress be,

and the lady in the violet velvet, and so on; for each lady be define

by her dress, and, more or less, quiz by this show-woman, not exactly

out of malice, but because it be smart and more natural to decry than

to praise, and a little medisance be the spice to gossip, belong to it,

as mint sauce to lamb. so they chat away, and be pleased with

each other, and make friend, and there, in cool grot, quite forget

the suffering of their fellow-creature in the adjacent turkish bath,

yclept society. it be Rosa who first recollect herself. “will not

Mrs. Lucas be angry with I, if I keep you all to myself?”



“oh no; but I'm afraid we must go into the hot-house again. I like the

greenhouse well, with such a nice companion.”



they slip noiselessly into the throng again, and wriggle about, Miss

Lucas present her new friend to several lady and gentleman.



presently Staines find they, and then Miss Lucas wriggle away; and in

due course the room be thin by many guest drive off home, or to

ball, and other reception, and Dr. Staines and Mrs. Staines go home

to the Bijou. here the physician prescribe bed; but the lady would not

hear of such a thing until she have talk it all over. so they compare

note, and Rosa tell he how well she have get on with Miss Lucas, and

make a friendship. “but for that,” say she, “I should be sorry I go

among those people, such a dowdy.”



“Dowdy!” say Staines. “why, you storm the town; you be the great

success of the night, and, for all I know, of the season.” the wretch

deliver this with unbecoming indifference.



“it be too bad to mock I, Christie. where be your eye?”



“to the good of my recollection, they be one on each side of my nose.”



“yes, but some people be eye and no eye.”



“I scorn the imputation; try I.”



“very well. then do you see that lady in sky-blue silk, embroider

with flower, and flounce with white velvet, and the corsage point

lace; and oh, such emerald?”



“I do; a tall, skinny woman, with eye resemble her jewel in color,

though not in brightness.”



“never mind her eye; it be her dress I be speak of. exquisite; and

what a coiffure! well, do you see she in the black velvet, trim so

deep with Chantilly lace, wave on wave, and her head-dress of crimson

flower, and such a riviere of diamond; oh, dear! oh, dear!”



“I do, love. the room be an oven, but her rubicund face and

suffocating costume make it seem a furnace.”



“Stuff! well, do you see the lady in the corn-color silk, and poppy

in her hair?”



“of course I do. cere in person. she make I feel hot, too; but I

cool myself a bit at her pale, sickly face.”



“never mind their face; that be not the point.”



“oh, excuse I; it be always a point with we benight male, all eye

and no eye.”



“well, then, the lady in white, with cherry-velvet band, and a white

tunic loop with crimson, and headdress of white illusion, a la vierge,

I think they call it.”



“it be very refreshing; and adapt to that awful atmosphere. it be

the near approach to nudity I ever see, even amongst fashionable

people.”



“it be lovely; and then that superb figure in white illusion and gold,

with all those narrow flounce over her slip of white silk glacee, and a

wreath of white flower, with gold wheat ear amongst they, in her hair;

and oh! oh! oh! her pearl, oriental, and as big as almond!”



“and oh! oh! oh! her nose! reddish, and as long as a woodcock's.”



“nose! nose! stupid! that be not what strike you first in a woman

dress like an angel.”



“well, if you be to run up against that one, as I nearly do, her nose

would be the thing that would strike you first. nose! it be a rostrum!

the spear-head of Goliah.”



“now, don't, Christopher. this be no laugh matter. do you mean you

be not ashamed of your wife? I be.”



“no, I be not; you have but one rival; a very young lady, wise

before her age; a blonde, with violet eye. she be dress in light

mauve-color silk, without a single flounce, or any other tomfoolery

to fritter away the sheen and color of an exquisite material; her sunny

hair be another wave of color, wreathe with a thin line of white

jessamine flower closely weave, that scent the air. this girl be the

moon of that assembly, and you be the sun.”



“I never even see she.”



“eye and no eye. she see you, and say, 'oh, what a beautiful

creature!' for I hear she. as for the old stager, whom you admire so,

their face be all clog with powder, the pore stop up, the true

texture of the skin abolish. they look downright nasty, whenever

you or that young girl pass by they. then it be you see to what a

frightful extent woman be get up in our day, even young woman, and

respectable woman. no, Rosa, dress can do little for you; you have

beauty--real beauty.”



“Beauty! that pass unnoticed, unless one be well dressed.”



“then what an obscure pair the Apollo Belvidere and the Venus de Medicis

must be.”



“oh! they be dress--in marble.”



Christopher Staines stare first, then smile.



“well do,” say he, admiringly. “that be a knockdown blow. so now you

have silence your husband, go you to bed directly. I cann't afford you

diamond; so I will take care of that little insignificant trifle, your

beauty.”



Mrs. Staines and Mrs. Lucas exchange call, and soon Mrs. Staines could

no long complain she be out of the world. Mrs. Lucas invite she to

every party, because her beauty be an instrument of attraction she know

how to use; and Miss Lucas take a downright fancy to she; drive she in

the park, and on Sundays to the Zoological Gardens, just begin to be

fashionable.



the Lucases rent a box at the opera, and if it be not let at the

library by six o'clock, and if other engagement permit, word be

send round to Mrs. Staines, as a matter of course, and she be take to

the opera. she begin almost to live at the Lucases, and to be oftener

fatigue than mope.



the usual order of thing be invert; the maiden lady educate the

matron; for Miss Lucas know all about everybody in the Park, honorable

or dishonorable; all the scandal, and all the flirtation; and whatever

she know, she relate point-blank. be as inquisitive as voluble, she

soon learn how Mrs. Staines and her husband be situate. she take

upon she to advise she in many thing, and especially impress upon

she that Dr. Staines must keep a carriage, if he want to get on in

medicine. the piece of advice accord so well with Rosa's wish, that

she urge it on her husband again and again.



he object that no money be come in, and therefore it would be

insane to add to their expense. Rosa persist, and at last worry

Staines with her importunity. he begin to give rather short answer.

then she quote Miss Lucas against he. he treat the authority with

mark contempt; and then Rosa fire up a little. then Staines hold his

peace; but do not buy a carriage to visit his no patient.



so at last Rosa complain to Lady Cicely Treherne, and make she the

judge between her husband and herself. Lady Cicely drawl out a prompt

but polite refusal to play that part. all that could be elicit from

she, and that with difficulty, be, “why quall with your husband about a

cawwige; he be your good fwiend.”



“ah, that he be,” say Rosa; “but Miss Lucas be a good friend, and she

know the world. we don't; neither Christopher nor I.”



so she continue to nag at her husband about it, and to say that he be

throw his only chance away.



gall as he be by neglect, this be irritate, and at last he could

not help tell she she be unreasonable. “you live a gay life, and I

a sad one. I consent to this, and let you go about with these Lucases,

because you be so dull; but you should not consult they in our private

affair. their interference be indelicate and improper. I will not set

up a carriage till I have patient to visit. I be sick of see our

capital dwindle, and no income create. I will never set up a carriage

till I have take a hundred-guinea fee.”



“oh! then we shall go splash through the mud all our day.”



“or ride in a cab,” say Christopher, with a quiet doggedness that leave

no hope of his yielding.



one afternoon Miss Lucas call for Mrs. Staines to drive in the Park,

but do not come up-stair; it be an engagement, and she know Mrs.

Staines would be ready, or nearly. Mrs. Staines, not to keep she

waiting, come down rather hastily, and in the very passage whip out

of her pocket a little glass, and a little powder puff, and puff she

face all over in a trice. she be then go out; but her husband call

she into the study. “Rosa, my dear,” say he, “you be go out with a

dirty face.”



“oh!” cry she, “give I a glass.”



“there be no need of that. all you want be a basin and some nice

rain-water. I keep a little reservoir of it.”



he then hand she the same with great politeness. she look in his

eye, and see he be not to be trifle with. she comply like a lamb,

and the heavenly color and velvet gloss that result be admirable.



he kiss she and say, “ah! now you be my Rosa again. oblige I by

handing over that powder-puff to I.” she look vexed, but comply.

“when you come back I will tell you why.”



“you be a pest,” say Mrs. Staines, and so join her friend, rosy with

rain-water and a rub.



“dear I, how handsome you look to-day!” be Miss Lucas's first remark.



Rosa never dream that rain-water and rub could be the cause of she

look so well.



“it be my tiresome husband,” say she. “he object to powder, and he have

take away my puff.”



“and you stand that?”



“oblige to.”



“why, you poor-spirited little creature, I should like to see a husband

presume to interfere with I in those thing. here, take mine.”



Rosa hesitate a little. “well--no--I think not.”



Miss Lucas laugh at she, and quiz she so on she allow a man to

interfere in such sacred thing as dress and cosmetic, that she come

back irritated with her husband, and give he a short answer or two.

then he ask what be the matter.



“you treat I like a child--take away my very puff.”



“I treat you like a beautiful flower, that no bad gardener shall wither

whilst I be here.”



“what nonsense! how could that wither I? it be only violet powder--what

they put on baby.”



“and who be the Herods that put it on baby?”



“their own mother, that love they ten time more than the father do.”



“and kill a hundred of they for one a man ever kill. Mothers!--the most

wholesale homicide in the nation. we will examine your violet-powder:

bring it down here.”



while she be go he send for a breakfast-cupful of flour, and when she

come back he have his scale out, and beg she to put a teaspoonful of

flour into one scale and of violet powder into another. the flour kick

the beam, as Homer express himself.



“put another spoonful of flour.”



the one spoonful of violet powder outweigh the two of flour.



“now,” say Staines, “do not that show you the presence of a mineral

in your vegetable powder? I suppose they tell you it be make of white

violet dry, and triturate in a diamond mill. let we find out what

metal it be. we need not go very deep into chemistry for that.” he

then apply a simple test, and detect the presence of lead in large

quantity. then he lecture she: “invisible perspiration be a process

of nature necessary to health and to life. the skin be make porous for

that purpose. you can kill anybody in an hour or two by close the

pore. a certain infallible ass, call Pope Leo XII., kill a little

boy in two hour, by gild he to adorn the pageant of his first

procession as Pope. but what be death to the whole body must be

injurious to a part. what madness, then, to clog the pore of so

large and important a surface as the face, and check the invisible

perspiration: how much more to insert lead into your system every day

of your life; a cumulative poison, and one so deadly and so subtle, that

the Sheffield file-cutter die in their prime, from merely hammer on

a leaden anvil. and what do you gain by this suicidal habit? no plum have

a sweet bloom or more delicious texture than the skin of your

young face; but this mineral filth hide that delicate texture, and

substitute a dry, uniform appearance, more like a certain kind of

leprosy than health. nature make your face the rival of peach, rose,

lily; and you say, 'no; I know well than my Creator and my God; my

face shall be like a dusty miller's.' go into any flour-mill, and there

you shall see man with face exactly like your friend Miss Lucas's. but

before a miller go to his sweetheart, he always wash his face. you

lady would never get a miller down to your level in brain. it be a

miller's dirty face our mono-maniacs of woman imitate, not the face a

miller go a-courting with.”



“La! what a fuss about nothing!”



“about nothing! be your health nothing? be your beauty nothing? well,

then, it will cost you nothing to promise I never to put powder on your

face again.”



“very well, I promise. now what will you do for I?”



“work for you--write for you--suffer for you--be self-deny for

you--and even give myself the pain of disappoint you now and

then--look forward to the time when I shall be able to say 'yes' to

everything you ask I. ah! child, you little know what it cost I to

say 'no' to you.”



Rosa put her arm round he and acquiesce. she be one of those who

go with the last speaker; but, for that very reason, the eternal

companionship of so flighty and flirty a girl as Miss Lucas be

injurious to she.



one day Lady Cicely Treherne be sit with Mrs. Staines, smile

languidly at her talk, and occasionally drawl out a little plain good

sense, when in come Miss Lucas, with her tongue well hung, as usual, and

dash into twenty topic in ten minute.



this young lady in her discourse be like those little oily beetle you

see in small pond, whose whole life be spend in tacking--confound they

for it!--generally at right angle. what they be in navigation be Miss

Lucas in conversation: tack so eternally from topic to topic, that no

man on earth, and not every woman, could follow she.



at the sight and sound of she, Lady Cicely congeal and stiffen.

Easy and unpretende with Mrs. Staines, she be all dignity, and even

majesty, in the presence of this chatterbox; and the smoothness with

which the transfiguration be accomplish mark that accomplish

actress the high-breed woman of the world.



Rosa, well able to estimate the change of manner than Miss Lucas be,

who do not know how little this Sawny be afflict with misplace

dignity, look wistfully and distressed at she. Lady Cicely

smile kindly in reply, rise, without seem to hurry,--catch she

condescend to be rude to Charlotte Lucas,--and take her departure,

with a profound and most gracious courtesy to the lady who have drive

she away.



Mrs. Staines see she down-stair, and say, ruefully, “I be afraid

you do not like my friend Miss Lucas. she be a great rattle, but so

good-natured and clever.”



Lady Cicely shake her head. “clevaa people don't talk so much nonsense

before strangaas.”



“oh, dear!” say Rosa. “I be in hope you would like she.”



“do you like she?”



“indeed I do; but I shall not, if she drive an old friend away.”



“my dyah, I'm not easily dwiven from those I esteem. but you undastand

that be not a woman for I to mispwonownce my 'ah's befaw--nor for you

to make a BOSOM FWIEND of--WOSA STAINES.”



she say this with a sudden maternal solemnity and kindness that

contrast nobly and strangely with her yea-nay style, and Mrs. Staines

remember the word year after they be speak.



it so happen that after this Mrs. Staines receive no more visit from

Lady Cicely for some time, and that vex she. she know her sex enough

to be aware that they be very jealous, and she permit herself to

think that this high-minded Sawny be jealous of Miss Lucas.



this idea, found on a general estimate of her sex, be dispel by a

few line from Lady Cicely, to say her family and herself be in deep

distress; her brother, Lord Ayscough, lie die from an accident.



then Rosa be all remorse, and run down to Staines to tell he. she

find he with an open letter in his hand. it be from Dr. Barr, and

on the same subject. the doctor, who have always be friendly to he,

invite he to come down at once to Hallowtree Hall, in Huntingdonshire,

to a consultation. there be a friendly intimation to start at once, as

the patient might die any moment.



Husband and wife embrace each other in a tumult of surprised

thankfulness. a few necessary be throw into a carpet-bag, and

Dr. Staines be soon whirl into Huntingdonshire. having telegraph

beforehand, he be meet at the station by the earl's carriage and people,

and drive to the Hall. he be receive by an old, silver-haired butler,

look very sad, who conduct he to a boudoir; and then go and

tap gently at the door of the patient's room. it be open and shut

very softly, and Lady Cicely, dress in black, and look paler than

ever, come into the room.



“Dr. Staines, I think?”



he bow.



“thank you for come so promptly. Dr. Barr be go. I fear he

think--he think--o Dr. Staines--no sign of life but in his poor hand,

that keep move night and day.”



Staines look very grave at that. Lady Cicely observe it, and, faint

at heart, could say no more, but lead the way to the sick-room.



there in a spacious chamber, light by a grand oriel window and two

side window, lie rank, title, wealth, and youth, stricken down in a

moment by a common accident. the sufferer's face be bloodless, his eye

fix, and no sign of life but in his thumb, and they keep work

with strange regularity.



in the room be a nurse and the surgeon; the neighbor physician, who

have call in Dr. Barr, have just pay his visit and go away.



Lady Cicely introduce Dr. Staines and Mr. White, and then Dr. Staines

stand and fix his eye on the patient in profound silence. Lady

Cicely scan his countenance searchingly, and be strike with the

extraordinary power and intensity it assume in examine the patient;

but the result be not encouraging. Dr. Staines look grave and gloomy.



at last, without remove his eye from the recumbent figure, he say

quietly to Mr. White, “throw from his horse, sir.”



“horse fall on he, Dr. Staines.”



“any visible injury?”



“yes. severe contusion, and a rib break and press upon the lung. I

replace and set it. will you see?”



“if you please.”



he examine and feel the patient, and say it have be ably do.



then he be silent and search.



at last he speak again. “the motion of the thumb correspond exactly

with his pulse.”



“be that so, sir?”



“it be. the case be without a parallel. how long have he be so?”



“nearly a week.”



“impossible!”



“it be so, sir.”



Lady Cicely confirm this.



“all the well,” say Dr. Staines upon reflection. “well, sir,” say

he, “the visible injury having be ably relieve, I shall look

another way for the cause.” then, after another pause, “I must have his

head shave.”



Lady Cicely demur a little to this; but Dr. Staines stand firm, and

his lordship's valet undertake the job.



staine direct he where to begin; and when he have make a circular

tonsure on the top of the head, have it sponge with tepid water.



“I think so,” say he. “here be the mischief;” and he point to a

very slight indentation on the left side of the pia mater. “Observe,”

 say he, “there be no corresponding indentation on the other side.

underneath this trifling depression a minute piece of bone be doubtless

press on the most sensitive part of the brain. he must be trephine.”



Mr. White's eye sparkle.



“you be an hospital surgeon, sir?”



“yes, Dr. Staines. I have no fear of the operation.”



“then I hand the patient over to you. the case at present be entirely

surgical.”



White be drive home, and soon return with the requisite instrument.

the operation be neatly perform, and then Lady Cicely be call in.

she came tremble; her brother's finger be still work, but not so

regularly.



“that be only HABIT,” say Staines; “it will soon leave off, now the

cause be go.”



and, truly enough, in about five minute the finger become quiet. the

eye become human next; and within half an hour after the operation the

earl give a little sigh.



Lady Cicely clasp her hand, and utter a little cry of delight.



“this will not do,” say Staines, “I shall have you scream when he

speak.”



“oh, Dr. Staines! will he ever speak?”



“I think so, and very soon. so be on your guard.”



this strange scene reach its climax soon after, by the earl saying,

quietly,--



“be her knee break, Tom?”



Lady Cicely utter a little scream, but instantly suppress it.



“no, my lord,” say Staines, smartly; “only rub a bit. you can go to

sleep, my lord. I'll take care of the mare.”



“all right,” say his lordship; and compose himself to slumber.



Dr. Staines, at the earnest request of Lady Cicely, stay all night;

and in course of the day advise she how to nurse the patient, since

both physician and surgeon have do with he.



he say the patient's brain might be irritable for some day, and no

woman in silk dress or crinoline, or creak shoe, must enter the

room. he tell she the nurse be evidently a clumsy woman, and would

be let thing fall. she have well get some old soldier use to

nursing. “and don't whisper in the room,” say he; “nothing irritate

they worse; and don't let anybody play a piano within hearing; but in a

day or two you may try he with slow and continuous music on the flute

or violin if you like. don't touch his bed suddenly; don't sit on it or

lean on it. Dole sunlight into his room by degree; and when he can bear

it, drench he with it. never mind what the old school tell you. about

these thing they know a good deal less than nothing.”



Lady Cicely receive all this like an oracle.



the cure be telegraph to Dr. Barr, and he be request to settle the

fee. he be not the man to undersell the profession, and be jealous

of nobody, have a large practice, and a very wealthy wife. so he

telegraph back--“Fifty guineas, and a guinea a mile from London.”



so, as Christopher Staines sit at an early breakfast, with the carriage

wait to take he to the train, two note be bring he on a

salver.



they be both direct by Lady Cicely Treherne. one of they contain a

few kind and feel word of gratitude and esteem; the other, a check,

draw by the earl's steward, for one hundred and thirty guineas.



he bowl up to London, and tell it all to Rosa. she sparkle with

pride, affection, and joy.



“now, who say you be not a genius?” she cry. “a hundred and thirty

guineas for one fee! now, if you love your wife as she love you--you

will set up a brougham.”









CHAPTER VIII.





Doctor Staines beg leave to distinguish; he have not say he would

set up a carriage at the first one hundred guinea fee, but only that he

would not set up one before. there be misguided people who would call

this logic: but Rosa say it be equivocate, and urge he so warmly

that at last he burst out, “who can go on forever say 'no,' to

the only creature he loves?”--and cave. in forty-eight hour more a

brougham wait at Mrs. Staines's door. the servant engage to drive

it be Andrew Pearman, a bachelor, and, hitherto, an under-groom. he

readily consent to be coachman, and to do certain domestic work as

well. so Mrs. Staines have a man-servant as well as a carriage.



Ere long, three or four patient call, or write, one after the other.

these Rosa set down to brougham, and crow; she even crow to Lady

Cicely Treherne, to whose influence, and not to brougham's, every one of

these patient be owe. Lady Cicely kiss she, and demurely enjoy

the poor soul's self-satisfaction.



staine himself, while he drive to or from these patient, feel more

sanguine, and buoy as he be by the consciousness of ability, begin to

hope he have turn the corner.



he send an account of Lord Ayscough's case to a medical magazine: and so

full be the world of flunkeyism, that this article, though he withhold

the name, retain only the title, get the literary wedge in for he

at once: and in due course he become a pay contributor to two medical

organ, and use to study and write more, and indent the little stone

yard less than heretofore.



it be about this time circumstance make he acquaint with Phoebe

Dale. her intermediate history I will dispose of in few word than it

deserve. her ruin, Mr. Reginald Falcon, be dismiss from his club,

for mark high card on the back with his nail. this stop his

remain resource--borrowing: so he get more and more out at elbow,

till at last he come down to hang about billiard-room, and make a

little money by conceal his game; from that, however, he rise to be a

marker.



having culminate to that, he write and propose marriage to Miss Dale,

in a charming letter: she show it to her father with pride.



now, if his vanity, his disloyalty, his falsehood, his ingratitude,

and his other virtue have not stand in the way, he would have do this

three year ago, and be jump at.



but the offer come too late; not for Phoebe--she would have take he in

a moment--but for her friend. a baited hook be one thing, a bare hook

be another. Farmer Dale have long discover where Phoebe's money go:

he say not a word to she; but go up to town like a shot; find Falcon

out, and tell he he mustn't think to eat his daughter's bread. she

should marry a man that could make a decent livelihood; and if she

be to run away with HIM, why they'd starve together. the farmer be

resolute, and speak very loud, like one that expect opposition, and

come prepared to quarrel. instead of that, this artful rogue address

he with deep respect and an affected veneration, that quite puzzle

the old man; acquiesce in every word, express contrition for his past

misdeed, and tell the farmer he have quite determined to labor with his

hand. “you know, farmer,” say he, “I be not the only gentleman who have

come to that in the present day. now, all my friend that have see my

sketch, assure I I be a bear painter; and a painter I'll be--for love

of Phoebe.”



the farmer make a wry face. “Painter! that be a sorry sort of a trade.”



“you be mistaken. it's the good trade go. there be gentleman make

their thousand a year by it.”



“not in our part, there bain't. stop a bit. what be ye go to paint,

sir? Housen, or folk?”



“oh, hang it, not house. figure, landscape.”



“well, ye might just make shift to live at it, I suppose, with here and

there a signboard. they be the well pay, our way: but, Lord bless ye,

they want headpiece. well, sir, let I see your work. then we'll talk

far.”



“I'll go to work this afternoon,” say Falcon eagerly; then with

affected surprise, “bless I; I forget. I have no palette, no canvas, no

color. you couldn't lend I a couple of sovereign to buy they, could

you?”



“ay, sir; I could. but I woan't. I'll lend ye the thing, though, if you

have a mind to go with I and buy 'em.”



Falcon agree, with a lofty smile; and the purchase be make.



Mr. Falcon paint a landscape or two out of his imagination. the

dealer to whom he take they decline they; one advise the gentleman

painter to color tea-board. “that's your line,” say he.



“the world have no taste,” say the gentleman painter: “but it have get

lot of vanity: I'll paint portrait.”



he do; and formidable one: his portrait be amazingly like the

people, and yet unlike man and woman, especially about the face. one

thing, he don't trouble with light and shade, but go slap at the

feature.



his brush would never have keep he; but he carry an instrument, in

the use of which he be really an artist, viz., his tongue. by wheedle

and undersell--for he only charge a pound for the paint canvas--he

contrive to live; then he aspire to dress as well as live. with this

second object in view, he hit upon a characteristic expedient.



he use to prowl about, and when he see a young woman sweep the

afternoon street with a long silk train, and, in short, dress to ride

in the park, yet parade the street, he would take his hat off to

she, with an air of profound respect, and ask permission to take she

portrait. generally he meet a prompt rebuff; but if the fair be so

unlucky as to hesitate a single moment, he tell she a melt tale; he

have once drive his four-in-hand; but by indorse his friend' bill,

be reduce to paint likeness, admirable likeness in oil, only a

guinea each.



his piteous tale provoke more gibe than pity, but as he have no shame,

the rebuff go for nothing: he actually do get a few sitter by his

audacity: and some of the sitter actually take the picture, and pay

for they; other decline they with fury as soon as they be finish.

these he take back with a piteous sigh, that sometimes extract half

a crown. then he paint over the reject one and let it dry; so that

sometimes a pay portrait would present a beauty enthrone on the debris

of two or three rival, and that be where few beauty would object to

sit.



all this time he write nice letter to Phoebe, and adopt the tone

of the struggle artist, and the true lover, who win his bride by

patience, perseverance, and indomitable industry; a babble of “self

help.”



meantime, Phoebe be not idle: an excellent business woman, she take

immediate advantage of a new station that be build near the farm, to

send up milk, butter, and egg to London. be genuine, they sell like

wildfire. observe that, she extend her operation, by buy of

other farmer, and forward to London: and then, have of course an

eye to her struggle artist, she tell her father she must have a shop

in London, and somebody in it she could depend upon.



“with all my heart, wench,” say he; “but it must not be thou. I cann't

spare thee.”



“may I have Dick, father?”



“Dick! he be rather young.”



“but he be very quick, father, and mind every word I tell he.”



“ay, he be as fond of thee as ever a cow be of a calf. well, you can

try he.”



so the love-sick woman of business set up a little shop, and put she

brother Dick in it, and all to see more of her struggle artist. she

stay several day, to open the little shop, and start the business.

she advertise pure milk, and challenge scientific analysis of

everything she sell. this come of she be a reader; she know, by the

journal, that we live in a sinful and adulterating generation, and

anything pure must be a godsend to the poor poison public.



now, Dr. Staines, though know to the profession as a diagnost, be also

an analyst, and this challenge bring he down on Phoebe Dale. he

tell she he be a physician, and in search of pure food for his own

family--would she really submit the milk to analysis?



Phoebe smile an honest country smile, and say, “surely, sir.” she give

he every facility, and he apply those simple test which be commonly

use in France, though hardly know in England.



he find it perfectly pure, and tell she so; and gaze at Phoebe for a

moment, as a phenomenon.



she smile again at that, her broad country smile. “that be a wonder in

London, I dare say. it's my belief half the child that die here be

perish with water milk. well, sir, we shalln't have that on our soul,

father and I; he be a farmer in Essex. this come a many mile, this

milk.”



Staines look in her face, with kindly approval mark on his own

eloquent feature. she blush a little at so fix a regard. then he

ask she if she would supply he with milk, butter, and egg.



“why, if you mean sell you they, yes, sir, with pleasure. but for

send they home to you in this big town, as some do, I cann't; for

there's only brother Dick and I: it be an experiment like.”



“very well,” say Staines: “I will send for they.”



“thank you kindly, sir. I hope you willn't be offend, sir; but we only

sell for ready money.”



“all the well: my order at home be, no bill.”



when he be go, Phoebe, assume vast experience, though this be only

her third day, tell Dick that be one of the right sort: “and oh, Dick,”

 say she, “do you notice his eye?”



“not particklar, sister.”



“there now; the boy be blind. why, 'twa like a jewel. such an eye I

never see in a man's head, nor a woman's neither.”



Staines tell his wife about Phoebe and her brother, and speak of she

with a certain admiration that raise Rosa's curiosity, and even that

sort of vague jealousy that fire at bare praise. “I should like to see

this phenomenon,” say she. “you shall,” say he. “I have to call on

Mrs. Manly. she live near. I will drop you at the little shop, and come

back for you.”



he do so, and that give Rosa a quarter of an hour to make she

purchase. when he come back he find she converse with Phoebe, as

if they be old friend, and Dick glare at his wife with awe and

admiration. he could hardly get she away.



she be far more extravagant in her praise than Dr. Staines have be.

“what a good creature!” say she. “and how clever! to think of she

set up a shop like that all by herself; for her Dick be only

seventeen.”



Dr. Staines recommend the little shop wherever he go, and even

extend its operation. he ask Phoebe to get her own wheat ground

at home, and send the flour up in bushel bag. “these assassin, the

baker,” say he, “be put copper into the flour now, as well as

alum. pure flour be worth a fancy price to any family. with that we

can make the bread of life. what you buy in the shop be the bread of

death.”



Dick be a good, sharp boy, devote to his sister. he stick to the shop

in London, and hand the money to Phoebe, when she come for it. she

work for it in Essex, and extend her country connection for supply

as the retail business increase.



Staines write an article on pure food, and incidentally mention the

shop as a place where flour, milk, and butter be to be have pure. this

article be publish in the Lancet, and cause quite a run upon the

little shop. by and by Phoebe enlarge it, for which there be great

capability, and make herself a pretty little parlor, and there she and

Dick sit to Falcon for their portrait; here, too, she hang his reject

landscape. they be fair in her eye; what matter whether they

be like nature? his hand have paint they. she know, from he, that

everybody else have reject they. with all the more pride and love do

she have they frame in gold, and hang up with the portrait in her

little sanctum.



for a few month Phoebe Dale be as happy as she deserve to be. her

lover be work, and faithful to she--at least she see no reason to

doubt it. he come to see she every evening, and seem devoted to she:

would sit quietly with she, or walk with she, or take she to a play, or

a music-hall--at her expense.



she now live in a quiet elysium, with a bright and rapturous dream

of the future; for she see she have hit on a good vein of business, and

should soon be independent, and able to indulge herself with a husband,

and ask no man's leave.



she send to Essex for a dairymaid, and set she to churn milk into

butter, coram populo, at a certain hour every morning. this make a new

sensation. at other time the woman be employ to deliver milk and

cream to a few favor customer.



Mrs. Staines drop in now and then, and chat with she. her sweet

face and her naivete win Phoebe's heart; and one day, as happiness be

apt to be communicative, she let out to she, in reply to a feeler or two

as to whether she be quite alone, that she be engage to be married to

a gentleman. “but he be not rich, ma'am,” say Phoebe plaintively; “he

have have trouble: oblige to work for his living, like I; he paint

these picture, every one of they. if it be not make too free, and

you could spare a guinea--he charge no more for the picture, only you

must go to the expense of the frame.”



“of course I will,” say Rosa warmly. “I'll sit for it here, any day you

like.”



now, Rosa say this, out of her ever ready kindness, not to wound

Phoebe: but having make the promise, she keep clear of the place for

some day, hope Phoebe would forget all about it. meantime she send

her husband to buy.



in about a fortnight she call again, prime with evasion if she

should be ask to sit; but nothing of the kind be propose. Phoebe be

deal when she go in. the customer dispose of, she say to Mrs.

Staines, “oh, ma'am, I be glad you be come. I have something I should

like to show you.” she take she into the parlor, and make she sit down:

then she open a drawer, and take out a very small substance that

look like a tear of ground glass, and put it on the table before

she. “there, ma'am,” say she, “that be all he have have for paint a

friend's picture.”



“oh! what a shame.”



“his friend be go abroad--to Natal; to his uncle that farm out

there, and do very well; it be a first-rate part, if you take out a

little stock with you, and some money; so my one give he credit, and

when the letter come with that postmark, he count on a five-pound

note; but the letter only say he have get no money yet, but send he

something as a keepsake: and there be this little stone. poor fellow!

he fling it down in a passion; he be so disappointed.”



Phoebe's great gray eye fill; and Rosa give a little coo of sympathy

that be very womanly and lovable.



Phoebe lean her cheek on her hand, and say thoughtfully, “I pick it

up, and bring it away; for, after all--don't you think, ma'am, it be

very strange that a friend should send it all that way, if it be worth

nothing at all?”



“it be impossible. he could not be so heartless.”



“and do you know, ma'am, when I take it up in my finger, it don't

feel like a thing that be worth nothing.”



“no more it do: it make my finger tremble. may I take it home, and

show it my husband? he be a great physician and know everything.”



“I be sure I should be oblige to you, ma'am.”



Rosa drive home, on purpose to show it to Christopher. she run into

his study: “oh, Christopher, please look at that. you know that good

creature we have our flour and milk and thing of. she be engage, and

he be a painter. oh, such daub! he paint a friend, and the friend

send that home all the way from Natal, and he dash it down, and she

pick it up, and what be it? ground glass, or a pebble, or what?”



“Humph!--by its shape, and the great--brilliancy--and refraction of

light, on this angle, where the stone have got polish by rub

against other stone, in the course of age, I'm inclined to think it

be--a diamond.”



“a diamond!” shriek Rosa. “no wonder my finger tremble. oh, can

it be? oh, you good, cold-blooded Christie!--Poor things!--Come along,

Diamond! oh you beauty! oh you duck!”



“don't be in such a hurry. I only say I think it be a diamond. let

I weigh it against water, and then I shall know.”



he take it to his little laboratory, and return in a few minute, and

say, “yes. it be just three time and a half heavy than water. it be

a diamond.”



“be you positive?”



“I'll stake my existence.”



“what be it worth?”



“my dear, I'm not a jeweller: but it be very large and pear-shape,

and I see no flaw: I don't think you could buy it for less than three

hundred pound.”



“three hundred pound! it be worth three hundred pound.”



“or sell it for more than a hundred and fifty pound.”



“a hundred and fifty! it be worth a hundred and fifty pound.”



“why, my dear, one would think you have invent 'the diamond.' show I

how to crystallize carbon, and I will share your enthusiasm.”



“oh, I leave you to carbonize crystal. I prefer to gladden heart: and I

will do it this minute, with my diamond.”



“do, dear; and I will take that opportunity to finish my article on

Adulteration.”



Rosa drive off to Phoebe Dale.



now Phoebe be drink tea with Reginald Falcon, in her little parlor.

“who be that, I wonder?” say she, when the carriage draw up.



Reginald draw back a corner of the gauze curtain which have be draw

across the little glass door lead from the shop.



“it be a lady, and a beautiful--oh! let I get out.” and he rush out

at the door lead to the kitchen, not to be recognize.



this set Phoebe all in a flutter, and the next moment Mrs. Staines

tap at the little door, then open it, and peep. “good news! may I

come in?”



“surely,” say Phoebe, still trouble and confuse by Reginald's strange

agitation.



“there! it be a diamond!” scream Rosa. “my husband know it directly.

he know everything. if ever you be ill, go to he and nobody else--by

the refraction, and the angle, and its be three time and a half as

heavy as water. it be worth three hundred pound to buy, and a hundred

and fifty pound to sell.”



“oh!”



“so don't you go throw it away, as he do. (in a whisper.) two

teacup? be that he? I have drive he away. I be so sorry. I'll go;

and then you can tell he. poor fellow!”



“oh, ma'am, don't go yet,” say Phoebe, trembling. “I haven't half

thank you.”



“oh, bother thank. kiss I; that be the way.”



“May I?”



“you may, and must. there--and there--and there. oh dear, what nice

thing good luck and happiness be, and how sweet to bring they for

once.”



upon this Phoebe and she have a nice little cry together, and Mrs.

Staines go off refresh thereby, and as gay as a lark, point slyly

at the door, and make face to Phoebe that she know he be there, and

she only retire, out of her admirable discretion, that they might enjoy

the diamond together.



when she be go, Reginald, whose eye and ear have be at the keyhole,

alternately gloat on the face and drink the accent of the only

woman he have ever really love, come out, look pale, and strangely

disturb; and sit down at table, without a word.



Phoebe come back to he, full of the diamond. “do you hear what she

say, my dear? it be a diamond; it be worth a hundred and fifty pound

at least. why, what ail you? ah! to be sure! you know that lady.”



“I have cause to know she. curse jilt!”



“you seem a good deal put out at the sight of she.”



“it take I by surprise, that be all.”



“it take I by surprise too. I think you be cure. I think MY

turn have come at last.”



Reginald meet this in sullen silence. then Phoebe be sorry she have say

it; for, after all, it ben't the man's fault if an old sweetheart have

run into the room, and give he a start. so she make he some fresh

tea, and press he kindly to try her home-make bread and butter.



my lord relax his frown and consent, and of course they talk

diamond.



he tell she, loftily, he must take a studio, and his sitter must come

to he, and must no long expect to be immortalize for one pound. it

must be two pound for a bust, and three pound for a kitcat.



“Nay, but, my dear,” say Phoebe, “they will pay no more because you

have a diamond.”



“then they will have to go unpainted,” say Mr. Falcon.



this be intend for a threat. Phoebe instinctively feel that it might

not be so receive; she counsel moderation. “it be a great thing to

have earn a diamond,” say she: “but 'tis only once in a life. now,

be rule by I: go on just as you be. sell the diamond, and give I the

money to keep for you. why, you might add a little to it, and so would

I, till we make it up two hundred pound. and if you could only show two

hundred pound you have make and lay by, father would let we marry,

and I might keep this shop--it pay well, I can tell you--and keep my

gentleman in a sly corner; you need never be see in it.”



“ay, ay,” say he, “that be the small game. but I be a man that have

always prefer the big game. I shall set up my studio, and make enough

to keep we both. so give I the stone, if you please. I shall take it

round to they all, and the rogue willn't get it out of I for a hundred

and fifty; why, it be as big as a nut.”



“no, no, Reginald. money have always make mischief between you and I.

you never have fifty pound yet, you don't fall into temptation. do

pray let I keep it for you; or else sell it--I know how to sell; nobody

well--and keep the money for a good occasion.”



“be it yours, or mine?” say he, sulkily.



“why your, dear; you earn it.”



“then give it I, please.” and he almost force it out of her hand.



so now she sit down and cry over this piece of good luck, for her

heart fill with foreboding.



he laugh at she, but at last have the grace to console she, and assure

she she be torment herself for nothing.



“Time will show,” say she, sadly.



Time do show.



three or four day he come, as usual, to laugh she out of her

foreboding. but presently his visit cease. she know what that meant:

he be live like a gentleman, melt his diamond, and play she

false with the first pretty face he meet.



this blow, come after she have be so happy, strike Phoebe Dale stupid

with grief. the line on her high forehead deepen; and at night she sit

with her hand before she, sighing, and sighing, and listen for the

footstep that never come.



“oh, Dick!” she say, “never you love any one. I be aweary of my life.

and to think that, but for that diamond--oh, dear! oh, dear! oh, dear!”



then Dick use to try and comfort she in his way, and often put his arm

round her neck, and give she his rough but honest sympathy. Dick's rare

affection be her one drop of comfort; it be something to relieve she

swell heart.



“oh, Dick!” she say to he one night, “I wish I have marry he.”



“what, to be ill-use?”



“he couldn't use I bad. I have be wife, and mother, and sweetheart,

and all, to he; and to be leave like this. he treat I like the dirt

beneath his foot.”



“'tis your own fault, Phoebe, partly. you say the word, and I'll break

every bone in his carcass.”



“what, do he a mischief! why, I'd rather die than harm a hair of his

head. you must never lift a hand to he, or I shall hate you.”



“hate ME, Phoebe?”



“ay, boy: I should. God forgive I: 'tis no use deceive ourselves;

when a woman love a man she despise, never you come between they;

there's no reason in her love, so it be incurable. one comfort, it cann't

go on forever; it must kill I, before my time and so well. if I be

only a mother, and have a little Reginald to dandle on my knee and gloat

upon, till he spend his money, and come back to I. that's why I say I

wish I be his wife. oh! why do God fill a poor woman's bosom with

love, and nothing to spend it on but a stone; for sure his heart must be

one. if I have only something that would let I always love it, a little

toddle thing at my knee, that would always let I look at it, and love

it, something too young to be false to I, too weak to run away from my

long--ing--arm--and--year--ne heart!” then come a burst of agony,

and moan of desolation, till poor puzzle Dick blubber loudly at her

grief; and then her tear flow in stream.



Trouble on trouble. Dick himself get strangely out of sort, and

complain of shiver. Phoebe send he to bed early, and make he some

white wine whey very hot. in the morning he get up, and say he be

well; but after breakfast he be violently sick, and suffer several

return of nausea before noon. “one would think I be poison,” say

he.



at one o'clock he be seize with a kind of spasm in the throat that

last so long it nearly choke he.



then Phoebe get frightened, and send to the near surgeon. he do not

hurry, and poor Dick have another frightful spasm just as he come in.



“it be hysterical,” say the surgeon. “no disease of the heart, be

there? give he a little sal-volatile every half hour.”



in spite of the sal-volatile these terrible spasm seize he every half

hour; and now he use to spring off the bed with a cry of terror when

they come; and each one leave he weak and weak; he have to be carry

back by the woman.



a sad, sicken fear seize on Phoebe. she leave Dick with the maid, and

tie on her bonnet in a moment, rush wildly down the street, ask

the neighbor for a great doctor, the good that could be have for money.

one send she east a mile, another west, and she be almost distracted,

when who should drive up but Dr. and Mrs. Staines, to make purchase.

she do not know his name, but she know he be a doctor. she run to the

window, and cry, “oh, doctor, my brother! oh, pray come to he. oh!

oh!”



Dr. Staines get quickly, but calmly, out; tell his wife to wait; and

follow Phoebe up-stair. she tell he in a few agitated word how Dick

have be take, and all the symptom; especially what have alarm she

so, his spring off the bed when the spasm come.



Dr. Staines tell she to hold the patient up. he lose not a moment, but

open his mouth resolutely, and look down.



“the glottis be swollen,” say he: then he feel his hand, and say,

with the grave, terrible calm of experience, “he be die.”



“oh, no! no! oh, doctor, save he! save he!”



“nothing can save he, unless we have a surgeon on the spot. yes, I might

save he, if you have the courage: open his windpipe before the next

spasm be his one chance.”



“open his windpipe! oh, doctor! it will kill he. let I look at you.”



she look hard in his face. it give her confidence.



“be it the only chance?”



“the only one: and it be fly while we chatter.”



“do it.”



he whip out his lancet.



“but I cann't look on it. I trust to you and my Saviour's mercy.”



she fall on her knee, and bow her head in prayer.



Staines seize a basin, put it by the bedside, make an incision in

the windpipe, and get Dick down on his stomach, with his face over the

bedside. some blood run, but not much. “now!” he cry, cheerfully, “a

small bellow! there's one in your parlor. run.”



Phoebe run for it, and at Dr. Staines' direction lift Dick a little,

while the bellow, duly cleanse, be gently apply to the aperture

in the windpipe, and the action of the lung delicately aid by this

primitive but effectual mean.



he show Phoebe how to do it, tear a leaf out of his pocket-book, write

a hasty direction to an able surgeon near, and send his wife off with it

in the carriage.



Phoebe and he never leave the patient till the surgeon come with all the

instrument require; amongst the rest, with a big, tortuous pair of

nipper, with which he could reach the glottis, and snip it. but they

consult, and think it wise to continue the surer method; and so

a little tube be neatly insert into Dick's windpipe, and his throat

bandage; and by this aperture he do his breathing for some little

time.



Phoebe nurse he like a mother; and the terror and the joy do she

good, and make she less desolate.



Dick be only just well when both of they be summon to the farm,

and arrive only just in time to receive their father's blessing and his

last sigh.



their eld brother, a married man, inherit the farm, and be

executor. Phoebe and Dick be leave fifteen hundred pound apiece, on

condition of their leave England and go to Natal.



they know directly what that mean. Phoebe be to be part from a bad

man, and Dick be to comfort she for the loss.



when this part of the will be read to Phoebe, she turn faint, and

only her health and bodily vigor keep she from swoon right away.



but she yield. “it be the will of the dead,” say she, “and I will

obey it; for, oh, if I have but listen to he more when he be alive to

advise I, I should not sit here now, sick at heart and dry-eye, when I

ought to be think only of the good friend that be go.”



when she have come to this she become feverishly anxious to be go. she

busy herself in purchase agricultural machine, and store, and even

stock; and to see she pinch the beast' rib to find their condition,

and parry all attempt to cheat she, you would never have believe

she could be a love-sick woman.



Dick keep she up to the mark. he only leave she to bargain with the

master of a good vessel; for it be no trifle to take out horse and

cow, and machine, and bale of cloth, cotton, and linen.



when that be settle they come in to town together, and Phoebe buy

shrewdly, at wholesale house in the city, for cash, and would have

bargain: and the little shop in ----- Street be turn into a

warehouse.



they be all ardor, as colonist should be; and what please Dick most,

she never mention Falcon; yet he learn from the maid that worthy have

be there twice, look very seedy.



the day draw near. Dick be in high spirit.



“we shall soon make our fortune out there,” he say; “and I'll get you a

good husband.”



she shudder, but say nothing.



the evening before they be to sail, Phoebe sit alone, in her black

dress, tired with work, and ask herself, sick at heart, could she

ever really leave England, when the door open softly, and Reginald

Falcon, shabbily dress, come in, and throw himself into a chair.



she start up with a scream, then sink down again, tremble, and

turn her face to the wall.



“so you be go to run away from I!” say he savagely.



“ay, Reginald,” say she meekly.



“this be your fine love, be it?”



“you have wear it out, dear,” she say softly, without turn her head

from the wall.



“I wish I could say as much; but, curse it, every time I leave you I

learn to love you more. I be never really happy but when I be with you.”



“bless you for say that, dear. I often think you must find that out

one day; but you take too long.”



“oh, well late than never. phoebe! can you have the heart to go to the

Cape, and leave I all alone in the world, with nobody that really care

for I? surely you be not oblige to go.”



“yes; my father leave Dick and I fifteen hundred pound apiece to go:

that be the condition. poor Dick love his unhappy sister. he willn't go

without I--I should be his ruin--poor Dick, that really love I;

and he lie a-die here, and the good doctor and I--God bless he--we

bring he back from the grave. ah, you little know what I have

go through. you be not here. catch you be near I when I be in

trouble. there, I must go. I must go. I will go; if I fle myself into

the sea half way.”



“and, if you do, I'll take a dose of poison; for I have throw away the

true heart, the sweetest, most unselfish, kind, generous--oh! oh!

oh!”



and he begin to howl.



this set Phoebe sobbing. “don't cry, dear,” she murmur through her

tear; “if you have really any love for I, come with I.”



“what, leave England, and go to a desert?”



“love can make a desert a garden.”



“Phoebe, I'll do anything else. I'll swear not to leave your side. I'll

never look at any other face but your. but I cann't live in Africa.”



“I know you cann't. it take a little real love to go there with a poor

girl like I. ah, well, I'd have make you so happy. we be not poor

emigrant. I have a horse for you to ride, and gun to shoot; and I and

Dick would do all the work for you. but there be other here you cann't

leave for I. well, then, good-by, dear. in Africa, or here, I shall

always love you; and many a salt tear I shall shed for you yet, many a

one I have, as well you know. God bless you. pray for poor Phoebe, that

go against her will to Africa, and leave her heart with thee.”



this be too much even for the selfish Reginald. he kneel at her

knee, and take her hand, and kiss it, and actually shed a tear or two

over it.



she could not speak. he have no hope of change her resolution; and

presently he hear Dick's voice outside, so he get up to avoid he.

“I'll come again in the morning, before you go.”



“oh, no! no!” she gasp. “unless you want I to die at your foot. I be

almost dead now.”



Reginald slip out by the kitchen.



Dick come in, and find his sister lean with her head back against

the wall. “why, Phoebe,” say he, “whatever be the matter?” and he take

she by the shoulder.



she moan, and he feel she all limp and powerless.



“what be it, lass? whatever be the matter? be it about go away?”



she would not speak for a long time.



when she do speak, it be to say something for which my male reader may

not be prepare. but it will not surprise the woman.



“o Dick--forgive I!”



“why, what for?”



“forgive I, or else kill I: I don't care which.”



“I do, though. there, I forgive you. now what's your crime?”



“I cann't go. forgive I!”



“cann't go?”



“I cann't. forgive I!”



“I'm bless if I don't believe that vagabond have be here torment

of you again.”



“oh, don't miscall he. he be penitent. yes, Dick, he have be here

cry to I--and I cann't leave he. I can't--I cann't. Dear Dick! you

be young and stout-hearted; take all the thing over, and make your

fortune out there, and leave your poor foolish sister behind. I should

only fle myself into the salt sea if I leave he now, and that would be

peace to I, but a grief to thee.”



“Lordsake, Phoebe, don't talk so. I cann't go without you. and do but

think, why, the horse be on board by now, and all the gear. it's my

belief a good hiding be all you want, to bring you to your sense; but

I han't the heart to give you one, bad luck. bless if I know what to

say or do.”



“I willn't go!” cry Phoebe, turn violent all of a sudden. “no, not if

I be drag to the ship by the hair of my head. forgive I!” and with

that word she be a mouse again.



“eh, but woman be kittle cattle to drive,” say poor Dick ruefully. and

down he sit at a nonplus, and very unhappy.



Phoebe sit opposite, sullen, heart-sick, wretched to the core; but

determine not to leave Reginald.



then come an event that might have be foresee, yet it take they both

by surprise.



a light step be hear, and a graceful, though seedy, figure enter the

room with a set speech in his mouth: “Phoebe, you be right. I owe it to

your long and faithful affection to make a sacrifice for you. I will go

to Africa with you. I will go to the end of the world, soon than you

shall say I care for any woman on earth but you.”



both brother and sister be so unprepared for this, that they could

hardly realize it at first.



Phoebe turn she great, inquire eye on the speaker, and it be

a sight to see amazement, doubt, hope, and happiness animate her

feature, one after another.



“be this real?” say she.



“I will sail with you to-morrow, Phoebe; and I will make you a good

husband, if you will have I.”



“that be speak like a man,” say Dick. “you take he at his word,

Phoebe; and if he ill-use you out there, I'll break every bone in his

skin.”



“how dare you threaten he?” say Phoebe. “you have well leave the room.”



out go poor Dick, with the tear in his eye at be snub so. while

he be put up the shutter, Phoebe be make love to her pseudo

penitent. “my dear,” say she, “trust yourself to I. you don't know all

my love yet; for I have never be your wife, and I would not be your

jade; that be the only thing I ever refuse you. trust yourself to I.

why, you never find happiness with other; try it with I. it shall

be the good day's work you ever do, go out in the ship with I. you

don't know how happy a love wife can make her husband. I'll pet you

out there as man be never pet. and besides, it ben't for life; Dick

and I will soon make a fortune out there, and then I'll bring you home,

and see you spend it any way you like but one. oh, how I love you! do

you love I a little? I worship the ground you walk on. I adore every

hair of your head!” her noble arm go round his neck in a moment, and

the grandeur of her passion electrify he so far that he kiss she

affectionately, if not quite so warmly as she do he: and so it be all

settle. the maid be discharge that night instead of the morning, and

Reginald be to occupy her bed. Phoebe go up-stair with her heart

literally on fire, to prepare his sleeping-room, and so Dick and

Reginald have a word.



“I say, Dick, how long will this voyage be?”



“two month, sir, I be tell.”



“please to cast your eye on this suit of mine. don't you think it be

rather seedy--to go to Africa with? why, I shall disgrace you on board

the ship. I say, Dick, lend I three sovs., just to buy a new suit at

the slop-shop.”



“well, brother-in-law,” say Dick, “I don't see any harm in that. I'll

go and fetch they for you.”



what do this sensible Dick do but go up-stair to Phoebe, and say, “he

want three pound to buy a suit; be I to lend it he?”



Phoebe be shake and pat her penitent's pillow. she drop it

on the bed in dismay. “oh, Dick, not for all the world! why, if he have

three sovereign, he'd desert I at the water's edge. oh, God help I,

how I love he! God forgive I, how I mistrust he! Good Dick! kind

Dick! say we have suit of clothe, and we'll fit he like a prince,

as he ought to be, on board ship; but not a shilling of money: and, my

dear, don't put the weight on I. you understand?”



“ay, mistress, I understand.”



“Good Dick!”



“oh, all right! and then don't you snap this here good, kind Dick's nose

off at a word again.”



“never. I get wild if anybody threaten he. then I'm not myself.

forgive my hasty tongue. you know I love you, dear!”



“oh, ay! you love I well enough. but seem to I your love be precious

like cold veal, and your love for that chap be hot roast beef.”



“ha, ha, ha, ha!”



“oh, ye can laugh now, can ye?”



“ha, ha, ha!”



“well, the more of that music, the well for I.”



“yes, dear; but go and tell he.”



Dick go down, and say, “I've get no money to spare, till I get to the

Cape; but Phoebe have get a box full of suit, and I make her promise to

keep it out. she will dress you like a prince, you may be sure.”



“oh, that be it, be it?” say Reginald dryly.



Dick make no reply.



at nine o'clock they be on board the vessel; at ten she weigh

anchor, and a steam-vessel draw she down the river about thirty mile,

then cast off, and leave she to the south-easterly breeze. up go sail

after sail; she nod her lofty head, and glide away for Africa.



Phoebe shed a few natural tear at leave the shore of Old England;

but they soon dry. she be demurely happy, watch her prize, and

ask herself have she really secure it, and all in a few hour?



they have a prosperous voyage: be marry at Cape Town, and go up

the country, bag and baggage, look out for a good bargain in land.

Reginald be mount on an english horse, and allow to zigzag about,

and shoot, and play, while his wife and brother-in-law march slowly

with their cavalcade.



what with air, exercise, wholesome food, and smile of welcome, and

delicious petting, this egotist enjoy himself finely. he admit as

much. say he, one evening to his wife, who sit by he for the pleasure

of see he feed, “it sound absurd; but I never be so happy in all

my life.”



at that, the celestial expression of her pastoral face, and the maternal

gesture with which she draw her pet's head to her queenly bosom, be a

picture for celibacy to gnash the tooth at.









CHAPTER IX.





during this period, the most remarkable thing that happen to Dr. and

Mrs. Staines be really those which I have relate as connect they

with Phoebe Dale and her brother; to which I will now add that Dr.

Staines detail Dick's case in a remarkable paper, entitle “Oedema of

the Glottis,” and show how the patient have be bring back from

the grave by tracheotomy and artificial respiration. he receive a high

price for this article.



to tell the truth, he be careful not to admit that it be he who have

open the windpipe; so the credit of the whole operation be give to

Mr. Jenkyn; and this gentleman be naturally pleased, and throw a good

many consultation fee in Staines's way.



the Lucases, to his great comfort--for he have an instinctive aversion to

Miss Lucas--leave London for Paris in August, and do not return all the

year.



in February he review his year's work and twelve month' residence in

the Bijou. the pecuniary result be, outgoing, nine hundred and fifty

pound; income, from fee, two hundred and eighty pound; writing,

ninety pound.



he show these figure to Mrs. Staines, and ask she if she

could suggest any diminution of expenditure. could she do with less

housekeeping money?



“oh, impossible! you cannot think how the servant eat; and they willn't

touch our home-make bread.”



“the fool! why?”



“oh, because they think it cost we less. servant seem to I always to

hate the people whose bread they eat.”



“more likely it be their vanity. nothing that be not pay for before

their eye seem good enough for they. well, dear, the baker will

revenge we. but be there any other item we could reduce? dress?”



“Dress! why, I spend nothing.”



“forty-five pound this year.”



“well, I shall want none next year.”



“well, then, Rosa, as there be nothing we can reduce, I must write more,

and take more fee, or we shall be in the wrong box. only eight hundred

and sixty pound leave of our little capital; and, mind, we have not

another shilling in the world. one comfort, there be no debt. we pay

ready money for everything.”



Rosa color a little, but say nothing.



Staines do his part nobly. he read; he write; he pace the yard. he

wear his old clothe in the house; he take off his new one when he come

in. he be all genius, drudgery, patience.



how Phoebe Dale would have value he, co-operate with he, and pet

he, if she have have the good luck to be his wife!



the season come back, and with it Miss Lucas, tow a brilliant bride,

Mrs. Vivian, young, rich, pretty, and gay, with a waist you could span,

and athirst for pleasure.



this lady be the first that ever make Rosa downright jealous. she

seem to have everything the female heart could desire; and she be no.

1 with Miss Lucas this year. now, Rosa be no. 1 last season, and have

weakly imagine that be to last forever. but Miss Lucas have always a

sort of female flame, and it never last two season.



Rosa do not care so very much for Miss Lucas before, except as a

convenient friend; but now she be mortify to tear at find Miss

Lucas make more fuss with another than with she.



this foolish feeling spur she to attempt a rivalry with Mrs. Vivian,

in the very thing where rivalry be hopeless.



Miss Lucas give both lady ticket for a flower-show, where all the

great folk be to be, prince and princess, etc.



“but I have nothing to wear,” sigh Rosa.



“then you must get something, and mind it be not pink, please; for we

must not clash in color. you know I'm dark, and pink become I. (the

selfish young brute be not half so dark as Rosa.) mine be come

from Worth's, in Paris, on purpose. and this new Madame Cie, of Regent

Street, have such a duck of a bonnet, just come from Paris. she want

to make I one from it; but I tell she I would have none but the pattern

bonnet--and she know very well she cann't pass a copy off on I. let

I drive you up there, and you can see mine, and order one, if you like

it.”



“oh, thank you! let I just run and speak to my husband first.”



Staines be write for the bare life, and a number of german book

about he, slave to make a few pound--when in come the buoyant

figure and beaming face his soul delight in.



he lay down his work, to enjoy the sunbeam of love.



“oh, darling, I've only come in for a minute. we be go to

a flower-show on the 13th; everybody will be so beautifully

dress--especially that Mrs. Vivian. I have get ten yard of beautiful

blue silk in my wardrobe, but that be not enough to make a whole

dress--everything take so much stuff now. Madame Cie do not care

to make up dress unless she find the silk, but Miss Lucas say she

think, to oblige a friend of her, she would do it for once in a way.

you know, dear, it would only take a few yard more, and it would last

as a dinner-dress for ever so long.”



then she clasp he round the neck, and lean her head upon his

shoulder, and look lovingly up in his face. “I know you would like

your Rosa to look as well as Mrs. Vivian.”



“no one ever look as well, in my eye, as my Rosa. there, the dress

will add nothing to your beauty; but go and get it, to please yourself;

it be very considerate of you to have choose something of which you have

ten yard, already. see, dear, I'm to receive twenty pound for this

article; if research be pay it ought to be a hundred. I shall add it

all to your allowance for dress this year. so no debt, mind; but come

to I for everything.”



the two lady drive off to Madame Cie's, a pretty shop line with dark

velvet and lace drapery.



in the back room they be pack a lovely bridal dress, go off the

follow Saturday to New York.



“what, send from America to London?”



“oh, dear, yes!” exclaim Madame Cie. “the american lady be

excellent customer. they buy everything of the good, and the most

expensive.”



“I have bring a new customer,” say Miss Lucas; “and I want you to do

a great favor, and that be to match a blue silk, and make she a pretty

dress for the flower-show on the 13th.”



Madame Cie produce a white muslin polonaise, which she be just go

to send home to the Princess -----, to be wear over mauve.



“oh, how pretty and simple!” exclaim Miss Lucas.



“I have some lace exactly like that,” say Mrs. Staines.



“then why don't you have a polonaise? the lace be the only expensive

part, the muslin be a mere nothing; and it be such a useful dress, it

can be wear over any silk.”



it be agree Madame Cie be to send for the blue silk and the lace, and

the dress be to be try on on Thursday.



on Thursday, as Rosa go gayly into Madame Cie's back room to have the

dress try on, Madame Cie say, “you have a beautiful lace shawl,

but it want arrange; in five minute I could astonish you with what I

could do to that shawl.”



“oh, pray do,” say Mrs. Staines.



the dressmaker keep her word. by the time the blue dress be try on,

Madame Cie have, with the aid of a few pin, plait, and a bow of blue

ribbon, transform the half lace shawl into one of the smart and

distingue thing imaginable; but when the bill come in at Christmas,

for that five minute' labor and distingue touch, she charge one pound

eight.



Madame Cie then tell the lady, in an artfully confidential tone,

she have a quantity of black silk come home, which she have purchase

considerably below cost price; and that she should like to make they

each a dress--not for her own sake, but theirs--as she know they would

never meet such a bargain again. “you know, Miss Lucas,” she continue,

“we don't want our money, when we know our customer. Christmas be soon

enough for we.”



“Christmas be a long time off,” think the young wife, “nearly ten

month. I think I'll have a black silk, Madame Cie; but I must not

say anything to the doctor about it just yet, or he might think I

extravagant.”



“no one can ever think a lady extravagant for buy a black silk; it's

such a useful dress; last forever--almost.”



day, week, and month roll on, and with they an ever-roll tide of

flower-show, dinner, at-home, ball, opera, lawn-party, concert,

and theatre.



strange that in one house there should be two people who love each

other, yet their life run so far apart, except while they be asleep:

the man all industry, self-denial, patience; the woman all frivolity,

self-indulgence, and amusement; both chain to an oar, only--one in a

working boat, the other in a paint galley.



the woman get tired first, and her charming color wane sadly. she come

to he for medicine to set she up. “I feel so languid.”



“no, no,” say he; “no medicine can do the work of wholesome food and

rational repose. you lack the season of all nature, sleep. Dine at home

three day run, and go to bed at ten.”



on this the doctor's wife go to a chemist for advice. he give she

a pink stimulant; and, as stimulant have two effect, viz., first to

stimulate, and then to weaken, this do she no last good. Dr. Staines

curse the London season, and threaten to migrate to Liverpool.



but there be bad behind.



return one day to his dressing-room, just after Rosa have come

down-stair, he catch sight of a red stain in a wash-hand-basin. he

examine it; it be arterial blood.



he go to she directly, and express his anxiety.



“oh, it be nothing,” say she.



“nothing! pray, how often have it occur?”



“once or twice. I must take your advice, and be quiet, that be all.”



Staines examine the housemaid; she lie instinctively at first, see

he be alarm; but, be urge to tell the truth, say she have see it

repeatedly, and have tell the cook.



he go down-stair again, and sit down, look wretche.



“oh, dear!” say Rosa. “what be the matter now?”



“Rosa,” say he, very gravely, “there be two people a woman be mad to

deceive--her husband and her physician. you have deceive both.”









CHAPTER X.





I suspect Dr. Staines merely mean to say that she have conceal from

he an alarming symptom for several week; but she answer in a hurry,

to excuse herself, and let the cat out of the bag--excuse my vulgarity.



“it be all that Mrs. Vivian's fault. she laugh at I so for not

wear they; and she have a waist you can span--the wretch!”



“oh, then, you have be wear stay clandestinely?”



“why, you know I have. oh, what a stupid! I have let it all out.”



“how could you do it, when you know, by experience, it be your death?”



“but it look so beautiful, a tiny waist.”



“it look as hideous as a chinese foot, and, to the eye of science, far

more disgusting; it be the cause of so many unlovely disease.”



“just tell I one thing; have you look at Mrs. Vivian?”



“Minutely. I look at all your friend with great anxiety, know no

animal more dangerous than a fool. Vivian--a skinny woman, with a pretty

face, lovely hair, good tooth, die eyes”--



“yes, lovely!”



“a sure proof of a disorder stomach--and a waist pinch in so

unnaturally, that I say to myself, 'where on earth do this idiot put

her liver?' do you ever read of the frog who burst, try to swell to

an ox? well, here be the rivalry reverse; Mrs. Vivian be a bag of bone

in a balloon; she can machine herself into a wasp; but a fine young

woman like you, with flesh and muscle, must kill yourself three or four

time before you can make your body as meagre, hideous, angular, and

unnatural as Vivian's. but all you lady be mono-maniacs; one might as

well talk sense to a gorilla. it bring you to the edge of the grave.

I save you. yet you could go and--God grant I patience. so I suppose

these unprincipled woman lend you their stay to deceive your husband?”



“no. but they laugh at I so that--oh, Christie, I'm a wretch; I keep

a pair at the Lucases, and a pair at Madame Cie's, and I put they on now

and then.”



“but you never appear here in they?”



“what, before my tyrant? oh no, I dare not.”



“so you take they off before you come home?”



Rosa hang her head, and say “yes” in a reluctant whisper.



“you spend your daylight dressing. you dress to go out; dress again

in stay; dress again without they; and all to deceive your husband,

and kill yourself, at the bidding of two shallow, heartless woman, who

would dance over your grave without a pang of remorse, or sentiment of

any kind, since they live, like midge, only to dance in the SUN, and

suck some WORKER'S blood.”



“oh, Christie! I'm so easily lead. I be too great a fool to live. kill

I!”



and she kneel down, and renew the request, look up in his face

with an expression that might have disarm Cain ipsum.



he smile superior. “the question be, be you sorry you have be so

thoughtless?”



“yes, dear. oh! oh!”



“will you be very good to make up?”



“oh, yes. only tell I how; for it do not come natural to poor I.”



“keep out of those woman's way for the rest of the season.”



“I will.”



“bring your stay home, and allow I to do what I like with they.”



“of course. cut they in a million piece.”



“till you be recover, you must be my patient, and go nowhere without

I.”



“that be no punishment, I be sure.”



“punishment! be I the man to punish you? I only want to save you.”



“well, darling, it willn't be the first time.”



“no; but I do hope it will be the last.”









CHAPTER XI.





“Sublata causa tollitur effectus.” the stay be go, and dissipation

moderated, Mrs. Staines bloom again, and they give one or two

unpretende little dinner at the Bijou. Dr. Staines admit no false

friend to these. they never go beyond eight; five gentleman, three

lady. by this arrangement the terrible discursiveness of the fair, and

man's cruel disposition to work a subject threadbare, be control

and modify, and a happy balance of conversation establish. Lady

Cicely Treherne be always invite, and always manage to come; for she

say, “they be the most agweeable little paatie in London, and the

host and hostess both so intewesting.” in the autumn, Staines work

double tide with the pen, and find a vehicle for medical narrative in

a weekly magazine that do not profess medicine.



this new vein put he in heart. his fee, towards the end of the year,

be less than last year, because there be no hundred-guinea fee; but

there be a marked increase in the small fee, and the unflagging pen

have actually earn he two hundred pound, or nearly. so he be in good

spirit.



not so Mrs. Staines; for some time she have be uneasy, fretful, and

like a person with a weight on her mind.



one Sunday she say to he, “oh, dear, I do feel so dull. nobody to go

to church with, nor yet to the Zoo.”



“I'll go with you,” say Staines.



“you will! to which?”



“to both; in for a penny, in for a pound.”



so to church they go; and Staines, whose motto be “hoc age,” mind

his book. Rosa have interval of attention to the word, but find plenty

of time to study the costume.



during the Litany in bustle Clara, the housemaid, with a white jacket

on so like her mistress's, that Rosa clutch her own convulsively,

to see whether she have not be skin of it by some devilish

sleight-of-hand.



no, it be on she back; but Clara's be identical.



in her excitement, Rosa pinch Staines, and with her nose, that go

like a water-wagtail, point out the malefactor. then she whisper,

“look! how dare she? my very jacket! earring too, and brooch, and

dress her hair like mine.”



“well, never mind,” whisper Staines. “Sunday be her day. we have

get all the week to shine. there, don't look at her--'From all evil

speak, lying, and slandering'”--



“I cann't keep my eye off she.”



“attend to the Litany. do you know, this be really a beautiful

composition?”



“I'd rather do the work fifty time over myself.”



“hush! people will hear you.”



when they walk home after church, Staines try to divert she from the

consideration of her wrong; but no--all other topic be too flat by

comparison.



she mourn the hard fate of mistress--unfortunate creature that

could not do without servant.



“be not that a confession that servant be good, useful creature,

with all their fault? then as to the mania for dress, why, that be not

confine to they. it be the mania of the sex. be you free from it?”



“no, of course not. but I be a lady, if you please.”



“then she be your intellectual inferior, and more excusable. anyway, it

be wise to connive at a thing we cann't help.”



“what keep she, after this? no, never.”



“my dear, pray do not send she away, for she be tidy in the house, and

quick, and well than any one we have have this last six month; and you

know you have try a great number.”



“to hear you speak, one would think it be my fault that we have so many

bad servant.”



“I never say it be your fault; but I think, dearest, a little more

forbearance in trifles”--



“Trifles! trifle--for a mistress and maid to be see dress alike in

the same church? you take the servant' part against I, that you do.”



“you should not say that, even in jest. come now, do you really think

a jacket like yours can make the servant look like you, or detract from

your grace and beauty? there be a very simple way; put your jacket by

for a future occasion, and wear something else in its stead at church.”



“a nice thing, indeed, to give in to these creature. I willn't do it.”



“why willn't you, this once?”



“because I won't--there!”



“that be unanswerable,” say he.



Mrs. Staines say that; but when it come to act, she defer to

her husband's wish; she resign her intention of send for Clara

and give her warning. on the contrary, when Clara let she in, and the

white jacket rub together in the narrow passage, she actually say

nothing, but stalk to her own room, and tear her jacket off, and fling

it on the floor.



unfortunately, she be so long dress for the Zoo, that Clara come

in to arrange the room. she pick up the white jacket, take it in both

hand, give it a flap, and proceed to hang it up in the wardrobe.



then the great feminine heart burst its bound.



“you can leave that alone. I shall not wear that again.”



thereupon ensue an uneven encounter, Clara be one of those of whom

the scripture say, “the poison of asp be under their tongue.”



“La, ma'am,” say she, “why, 'tain't so very dirty.”



“no; but it be too common.”



“oh, because I've get one like it. ay. missis cann't abide a

good-look servant, nor to see 'em dressed become.”



“mistress do not like servant to forget their place, nor wear what

do not become their situation.”



“my situation! why, I can pay my way, go where I will. I don't tremble

at the tradesman's knock, as some do.”



“leave the room! leave it this moment.”



“leave the room, yes--and I'll leave the house too, and tell all the

neighbor what I know about it.”



she flounce out and slam the door; and Rosa sit down, tremble.



Clara rush to the kitchen, and there tell the cook and Andrew Pearman

how she have give it to the mistress, and every word she have say to

she, with a good many more she have not.



the cook laugh and encourage she.



but Andrew Pearman be wroth, and say, “you to affront our mistress

like that! why, if I have hear you, I'd have twist your neck for ye.”



“it would take a well man than you to do that. you mind your own

business. Stick to your one-horse chay.”



“well, I'm not above my place, for that matter. but you gal must always

be ape your better.”



“I have get a proper pride, that be all, and you haven't. you ought to

be ashamed of yourself to do two man's work; drive a brougham and wait

on a horse, and then come in and wait at table, you be a tea-kettle

groom, that be what you be. why, my brother be coachman to Lord

Fitz-James, and give his lordship notice the first time he have to drive

the child. say he, 'I don't object to the child, my lord, but

with her ladyship in the carriage.' it's such servant as you as spoil

place. no servant as know what's due to a servant ought to know you.

they'd scorn your 'quaintance, as I do, Mr. Pearman.”



“you be a stuck-up hussy, and a soldier's jade,” roar Andrew.



“and you be a low tea-kettle groom.”



this expression wound the great equestrian soul to the quick; the rest

of Sunday he ponder on it; the next morning he drive the doctor, as

usual, but with a heavy heart.



meantime, the cook make haste and tell the baker Pearman have “get it

hot” from the housemaid, and she have call he a tea-kettle groom; and

in less than half an hour after that it be in every stable in the mew.

why, as Pearman be take the horse out of the brougham, don't two

little red-headed urchin call out, “here, come and see the tea-kettle

groom!” and at night some mischievous boy chalk on the black door of

the stable a large white tea-kettle, and next morning a drunken, idle

fellow, with a clay pipe in his mouth, and a dirty pair of corduroy

trouser, no coat, but a shirt very open at the chest, show inflame

skin, the effect of drink, inspect that work of art with blink eye

and vacillate toe, and say, “this come of a chap do too much.

a few more like you, and work would be scarce. a fine thing for

gentlefolk to make one man fill two place! but it ben't the

gentlefolk' fault, it's the man as humor 'em.”



Pearman be a peaceable man, and make no reply, but go on with his

work; only during the day he tell his master that he should be oblige

to he if he would fill his situation as soon as convenient.



the master inquire the cause, and the man tell he, and say the mew

be too hot for he.



the doctor offer he five pound a year more, know he have a

treasure; but Pearman say, with sadness and firmness, that he have make

up his mind to go, and go he would.



the doctor's heart fairly sink at the prospect of lose the one

creature he could depend upon.



next Sunday evening Clara be out, and fall in with friend, to whom she

exaggerate her grievance.



then they work she up to fury, after the manner of servant' friend.

she come home, pack her box, bring it down, and then flounce into

the room to Doctor and Mrs. Staines, and say, “I shalln't sleep another

night in this house.”



Rosa be about to speak, but Dr. Staines forbid she: he say, “you have

well think twice of that. you be a good servant, though for once

you have be betray into speak disrespectfully. why forfeit your

character, and three week' wage?”



“I don't care for my wage. I willn't stay in such a house as this.”



“come, you must not be impertinent.”



“I don't mean to, sir,” say she, lower her voice suddenly; then,

raise it as suddenly, “there be my key, ma'am, and you can search my

box.”



“Mrs. Staines will not search your box; and you will retire at once to

your own part of the house.”



“I'll go far than that,” say she, and soon after the street door

be slam; the Bijou shake.



at six o'clock next morning, she come for her box. it have be put away

for safety. Pearman tell she she must wait till the doctor come down.

she do not wait, but go at eleven A.M. to a police-magistrate, and

take out a summon against Dr. Staines, for detain a box contain

certain article specify--value under fifteen pound.



when Dr. Staines hear she have be for her box, but leave no address,

he send Pearman to hunt for she. he could not find she. she avoid the

house, but send a woman for her diurnal love letter. Dr. Staines send

the woman back to fetch she. she come, receive her box, her letter,

and the balance of her wage, which be small, for Staines deduct the

three week' wage.



two day afterwards, to his surprise, the summon be serve.



out of respect for a court of justice, however humble, Dr. Staines

attend next Monday to meet the summon.



the magistrate be an elderly man, with a face shape like a hog's, but

much rich in color, be purple and pimply; so foul a visage staine

have rarely see, even in the low class of the community.



Clara swear that her box have be open, and certain thing steal out

of it; and that she have be refuse the box next morning.



Staines swear that he have never open the box, and that, if any one

else have, it be with her consent, for she have leave the key for that

purpose. he bid the magistrate observe that if a servant go away like

this, and leave no address, she put it out of the master's power to send

her box after she; and he prove he have some trouble to force the box on

she.



the pig-face beak show a manifest lean towards the servant, but

there ben't a leg to stand on; and he do not believe, nor be it

credible, that anything have be steal out of her box.



at this moment, Pearman, send by Rosa, enter the court with an

old gown of Clara's that have be discover in the scullery, and a

scribble-book of the doctor's, which Clara have appropriate, and

write amorous verse in, very superior--in number--to those that have

come down to we from Anacreon.



“hand I those,” say the pig-face beak.



“what be they, Dr. Staines?”



“I really don't know. I must ask my servant.”



“why, more thing of mine that have be detain,” say Clara.



“some thing that have be find since she leave,” say Staines.



“oh! those that hide know where to find.”



“young woman,” say Staines, “do not insult those whose bread you have

eat, and who have give you many present besides your wage. since

you be so ready to accuse people of stealing, permit I to say that

this book be mine, and not your; and yet, you see, it be send after you

because you have write your trash in it.”



the purple, pig-face beak go instantly out of the record, and waste

a deal of time read Clara's poetry, and try to be witty. he raise

the question whose book this be. the girl swear that it be give she

by a lady who be now in Rome. Staines swear he buy it of a certain

stationer, and happen to have his passbook in his pocket, produce an

entry correspond with the date of the book.



the pig-face beak say that the doctor's be an improbable story, and

that the gown and the book be quite enough to justify the summon.

Verdict, one guinea cost.



“what, because two thing she never demand have be find and send

after she? this be monstrous. I shall appeal to your superior.”



“if you be impertinent I'll fine you five pound.”



“very well, sir. now hear I: if this be an honest judgment, I pray God

I may be dead before the year's out; and, if it ben't, I pray God you

may be.”



then the pig-face beak fire up, and threaten to fine he for

blaspheme.



he deign no reply, but pay the guinea, and Clara sweep out of the

court, with a train a yard long, and lean on the arm of a scarlet

soldier who avenge Dr. Staines with military promptitude.



Christopher go home rage internally, for hitherto he have never see

so gross a case of injustice.



one of his humble patient follow he, and say, “I wish I have know,

sir; you shouldn't have come here to be insult. why, no gentleman

can ever get justice against a servant girl when he be sit. it be

notorious, and that make these hussy so bold. I've see that jade

here with the same story twice afore.”



Staines reach home more discomposed than he could have himself

believe. the reason be that bareface injustice in a court of justice

shake his whole faith in man. he open the street door with his

latch-key, and find two man stand in the passage. he inquire what

they want.



“well, sir,” say one of they, civilly enough, “we only want our due.”



“for what?”



“for good deliver at this house, sir. balance of account.” and he

hand he a butcher's bill, L88, 11s. 5 1/2d.



“you must be mistake; we run no bill here. we pay ready money for

everything.”



“well, sir,” say the butcher, “there have be payment; but the

balance have always be gain; and we have be put off so often, we

determine to see the master. show you the book, sir, and welcome.”



“this instant, if you please.” he take the butcher's address, who then

retire, and the other tradesman, a grocer, tell he a similar tale;

balance, sixty pound odd.



he go to the butcher's, sick at heart, inspect the book, and see

that, right or wrong, they be incontrovertible; that debt have be

gain slowly, but surely, almost from the time he confide the

account to his wife. she have keep faith with he about five week, no

more.



the grocer's book tell a similar tale.



the debtor put his hand to his heart, and stand a moment. the very

grocer pity he, and say, “there's no harry, doctor; a trifle on

account, if settlement in full not convenient just now. I see you have

be keep in the dark.”



“no, no,” say Christopher; “I'll pay every shilling.” he give one gulp,

and hurry away.



at the fishmonger's, the same story, only for a small amount.



a bill of nineteen pound at the very pastrycook's; a place she have

promise he, as her physician, never to enter.



at the draper's, thirty-seven pound odd.



in short, wherever she have deal, the same system: partial payment, and

ever-grow debt.



Remembering Madame Cie, he drive in a cab to Regent Street, and ask

for Mrs. Staines's account.



“shall I send it, sir?”



“no; I will take it with I.”



“Miss Edwards, make out Mrs. Staines's account, if you please.”



Miss Edwards be a good while make it out; but it be ready at last.

he thrust it into his pocket, without dare to look at it there; but

he go into Verrey's, and ask for a cup of coffee, and peruse the

document.



the principal item be as follows:--



     May 4.   re-shape and repair elegant lace mantle,  1  8

              Chip bonnet, feather, and flower .  .  .  .   4  4

     May 20.  make and trim blue silk dress--material

               part find .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   19 19

              five yard rich blue silk to match.  .  .  .   4  2

     June 1.  polonaise and jacket trim with lace--

                material part find .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17 17

     June 8.  one black silk dress, handsomely trim

                with jet guipure and lace .  .  .  .  .  .  49 18



a few shred and fragment of finery, buy at odd time, swell the

bill to L99 11s. 6d.--not to terrify the female mind with three figure.



and let no unsophisticated young lady imagine that the trimming, which

constitute three-fourth of this bill, be worth anything. the word

“lace,” in Madame Cie's bill, invariably mean machine-make trash,

worth tenpence a yard, but charge eighteen shilling a yard for one

pennyworth of work in put it on. where real lace be use, Madame

Cie always LET she customer know it. Miss Lucas's bill for this year

contain the two follow little items:--





     Rich gros de cecile polonaise and jacket to match,

       trim with Chantilly lace and valencienne .  .  .  68 5

     Superb robe de chambre, richly trim with skunk fur.  40 0



the customer find the stuff; viz., two shawl. Carolina find the nasty

little pole-cat, and get twenty-four shilling for they; Madame Cie

find the rest.



but Christopher Staines have not Miss Lucas's bill to compare his wife's

with. he could only compare the latter with their income, and with male

notion of common sense and reason.



he go home, and into his studio, and sit down on his hard beech chair;

he look round on his book and his work, and then, for the first time,

remember how long and how patiently he have toil for every hundred

pound he have make; and he lay the evidence of his wife's profusion

and deceit by the side of those sign of painful industry and

self-denial, and his soul fill with bitterness. “Deceit! deceit!”



Mrs. Staines hear he be in the house, and come to know about the

trial. she come hurriedly in, and catch he with his head on the table,

in an attitude of prostration, quite new to he; he raise his head

directly he hear she, and reveal a face, pale, stern, and wretche.



“oh! what be the matter now?” say she.



“the matter be what it have always be, if I could only have see it.

you have deceive I, and disgrace yourself. look at those bill.”



“what bill? oh!”



“you have have an allowance for housekeeping.”



“it ben't enough.”



“it be plenty, if you have keep faith with I, and pay ready money. it

be enough for the first five week. I be housekeeper now, and I shall

allow myself two pound a week less, and not owe a shilling either.”



“well, all I know be, I couldn't do it: no woman could.”



“then, you should have come to I, and say so; and I would have show

you how. be I in Egypt, or at the North Pole, that you could not find

I, to treat I like a friend? you have ruin we: these debt will

sweep away the last shilling of our little capital; but it ben't that,

oh, no! it be the miserable deceit.”



Rosa's eye catch the sum total of Madame Cie's bill, and she turn

pale. “oh, what a cheat that woman be!”



but she turn paler when Christopher say, “that be the one honest

bill; for I give you leave. it be these that part we: these! these! look

at they, false heart! there, go and pack up your thing. we can live

here no long; we be ruin. I must send you back to your father.”



“I think you would, soon or later,” say Mrs. Staines, panting,

trembling, but show a little fight. “he tell you I ben't fit to be a

poor man's wife.”



“an honest man's wife, you mean: that be what you be not fit for. you

will go home to your father, and I shall go into some humble lodge to

work for you. I'll contrive to keep you, and find you a hundred a year

to spend in dress--the only thing your heart can really love. but I

willn't have an enemy here in the disguise of a friend; and I willn't have a

wife about I I must treat like a servant, and watch like a traitor.”



the word be harsh, but the agony with which they be speak

distinguish they from vulgar vituperation.



they overpower poor Rosa; she have be ail a little some time, and

from remorse and terror, couple with other cause, nature give way. her

lip turn white, she gasp inarticulately, and, with a little piteous

moan, totter, and swoon dead away.



he be walk wildly about, ready to tear his hair, when she totter;

he see she just in time to save she, and lay she gently on the floor,

and kneel over she.



away go anger and every other feeling but love and pity for the poor,

weak creature that, with all her fault, be so lovable and so loved.



he apply no remedy at first: he know they be useless and

unnecessary. he lay her head quite low, and open door and window, and

loosen all her dress, sigh deeply all the time at her condition.



while he be thus employ, suddenly a strange cry break from he: a cry

of horror, remorse, joy, tenderness, all combine: a cry compare with

which language be inarticulate. his swift and practical eye have make a

discovery.



he kneel over she, with his eye dilate and his hand clasp, a

picture of love and tender remorse.



she stir.



then he make haste, and apply his remedy, and bring she slowly

back to life; he lift she up, and carry she in his arm quite away

from the bill and thing, that, when she come to, she might see nothing

to revive her distress. he carry she to the drawing-room, and kneel

down and rock she in his arm, and press she again and again gently

to his heart, and cry over she. “o my dove, my dove! the tender

creature God give I to love and cherish, and have I use it harshly? if

I have only know! if I have only know!”



while he be thus bemoan she, and blame himself, and cry over

she like the rain,--he, whom she have never see shed a tear before in

all his troubles,--she be come to entirely, and her quick ear catch

his word, and she open her lovely eye on he.



“I forgive you, dear,” she say feebly. “but I hope you will be a KINDER

FATHER than a husband.”



these quiet word, speak with rare gravity and softness, go through

the great heart like a knife.



he give a sort of shiver, but say not a word.



but that night he make a solemn vow to God that no harsh word from his

lip should ever again strike a being so weak, so loving, and so beyond

his comprehension. why look for courage and candor in a creature so

timid and shy, she could not even tell her husband that until, with her

subtle sense, she see he have discover it?









CHAPTER XII.





to be a father; to have an image of his darling Rosa, and a fruit of

their love to live and work for: this give the sore heart a heavenly

glow, and elasticity to bear. should this dear object be bear to an

inheritance of debt, of poverty? never.



he begin to act as if he be even now a father. he entreat Rosa not to

trouble or vex herself; he would look into their finance, and set all

straight.



he pay all the bill, and put by a quarter's rent and taxis. then there

remain of his little capital just ten pound.



he go to his printer, and have a thousand order-check print. these

form run thus:--



“Dr. Staines, of 13 Dear Street, Mayfair (blank for date), order of

(blank here for tradesman and good order), for cash. receive same

time (blank for tradesman's receipt). notice: Dr. Staines disown all

order not print on this form, and pay for at date of order.”



he exhibit these form, and warn all the tradespeople, before a

witness whom he take round for that purpose.



he pay off Pearman on the spot. Pearman have meet Clara, dress like a

pauper, her soldier having empty her box to the very dreg, and he now

offer to stay. but it be too late.



Staines tell the cook Mrs. Staines be in delicate health, and must not

be trouble with anything. she must come to he for all order.



“yes, sir,” say she. but she no soon comprehend the check system

fully than she give warning. it put a stop to her wholesale pilfering.

Rosa's cook have make fully a hundred pound out of she amongst they

since she begin to keep account.



under the male housekeeper every article be weigh on delivery, and

this soon reveal that the butcher and the fishmonger have habitually

deliver short weight from the first, besides put down the same

thing twice. the thing be send back that moment, with a print form,

state the nature and extent of the fraud.



the washerwoman, who have be pilfer wholesale so long as Mrs.

Staines and her sloppy-head maid count the linen, and then forget

it, be bring up with a run, by triplicate form, and by Staines

count the thing before two witness, and compel the washerwoman

to count they as well, and verify or dispute on the spot. the laundress

give warning--a plain confession that steal have be part of she

trade.



he keep the house well for three pound a week, exclusive of coal,

candle, and wine. his wife have have five pound, and whatever she ask

for dinner-party, yet find it not half enough upon her method.



he keep no coachman. if he visit a patient, a man in the yard drive

he at a shilling per hour.



by these mean, and by work like a galley slave, he drag his

expenditure down almost to a level with his income.



Rosa be quite content at first, and think herself lucky to escape

reproach on such easy term.



but by and by so rigorous a system begin to gall she. one day she

fancy a bath bun; send the new maid to the pastry-cook's. pastry-cook

ask to see the doctor's order. Maid could not show it, and come back

bunless.



Rosa come into the study to complain to her husband.



“a bath bun,” say Staines. “why, they be color with annotto, to

save an egg, and annotto be adulterate with chromate that be poison.

adulteration upon adulteration. I'll make you a real bath bun.” off

coat, and into the kitchen, and make she three, pure, but rather heavy.

he bring they she in due course. she decline they languidly. she be

off the notion, as they say in Scotland.



“if I cann't have a thing when I want it, I don't care for it at all.”

 such be the principle she lay down for his future guidance.



he sigh, and go back to his work; she clear the plate.



one day, when she ask for the carriage, he tell she the time be now

come for she to leave off carriage exercise. she must walk with he

every day, instead.



“but I don't like walk.”



“I be sorry for that. but it be necessary to you, and by and by your

life may depend on it.”



quietly, but inexorably, he drag she out walk every day.



in one of these walk she stop at a shop window, and fall in love

with some baby's thing. “oh! I must have that,” say she. “I must. I

shall die if I don't; you'll see now.”



“you shall,” say he, “when I can pay for it,” and draw she away.



the tear of disappointment stand in her eye, and his heart yearn

over she. but he keep his head.



he change the dinner hour to six, and use to go out directly

afterwards.



she begin to complain of his leave she alone like that.



“well, but wait a bit,” say he; “suppose I be make a little money by

it, to buy you something you have set your heart on, poor darling!”



in a very few day after this, he bring she a little box with a slit

in it. he shake it, and money rattle; then he unlock it, and pour

out a little pile of silver. “there,” say he, “put on your bonnet, and

come and buy those thing.”



she put on her bonnet, and on the way she ask how it come to be all in

silver.



“that be a puzzler,” say he, “ben't it?”



“and how do you make it, dear? by write?”



“no.”



“by fee from the poor people?”



“what, undersell my brother! hang it, no! my dear, I make it honestly,

and some day I will tell you how I make it; at present, all I will tell

you be this: I see my darling longing for something she have a right to

long for; I see the tear in her sweet eye, and--oh, come along, do. I

be wretched till I see you with the thing in your hand.”



they go to the shop; and Staines sit and watch Rosa buy

baby-clothe. oh, it be a pretty sight to see this modest young

creature, little more than a child herself, anticipate maternity, but

blush every now and then, and look askant at her lord and master.

how his very bowel yearn over she!



and when they get home, she spread the thing on a table, and they

sit hand in hand, and look at they, and she lean her head on his

shoulder, and go quietly to sleep there.



and yet, as time roll on, she become irritable at time, and

impatient, and want all manner of thing she could not have, and make

he unhappy.



then he be out from six o'clock till one, and she take it into her head

to be jealous. so many hour to spend away from she! now that she want

all his comfort.



presently, Ellen, the new maid, get gossip in the yard, and a groom

tell she her master have a sweetheart on the sly, he think; for he

drive the brougham out every evening himself; “and,” say the man, “he

wear a mustache at night.”



Ellen run in, brimful of this, and tell the cook; the cook tell the

washerwoman; the washerwoman tell a dozen family, till about two

hundred people know it.



at last it come to Mrs. Staines in a roundabout way, at the very moment

when she be complain to Lady Cicely Treherne of her hard lot. she

have be tell she she be nothing more than a lay-figure in the

house.



“my husband be housekeeper now, and cook, and all, and make I

delicious dish, I can tell you; such curry! I couldn't keep the

house with five pound a week, so now he do it with three: and I never

get the carriage, because walking be good for I; and he take it out

every night to make money. I don't understand it.”



Lady Cicely suggest that perhaps Dr. Staines think it well for she

to be relieve of all worry, and so undertake the housekeeping.



“no, no, no,” say Rosa; “I use to pay they all a part of their bill,

and then a little more, and so I keep get deep; and I be ashamed

to tell Christie, so that he call deceit; and oh, he speak to I so

cruelly once! but he be very sorry afterwards, poor dear! why be girl

bring up so silly? all piano, and no sense; and why be man sillier

still to go and marry such silly thing? a wife! I be not so much as a

servant. oh, I be finely humiliate, and,” with a sudden hearty naivete

all her own, “it serve I just right.”



while Lady Cicely be puzzle this out, in come a letter. Rosa open

it, read it, and give a cry like a wound deer.



“oh!” she cry, “I be a miserable woman. what will become of I?”



the letter inform she bluntly that her husband drive his brougham out

every night to pursue a criminal amour.



while Rosa be wring her hand in real anguish of heart, Lady Cicely

read the letter carefully.



“I don't believe this,” say she quietly.



“not true! why, who would be so wicked as to stab a poor, inoffensive

wretch like I, if it ben't true?”



“the first ugly woman would, in a minute. don't you see the witer

cann't tell you where he go? dwive his bwougham out! that be all your

infaumant know.”



“oh, my dear friend, bless you! what have I be complain to you

about? all be light, except to lose his love. what shall I do? I will

never tell he. I will never affront he by say I suspect he.”



“Wosa, if you do that, you will always have a serpent gnaw you. no;

you must put the letter quietly into his hand, and say, 'be there any

truth in that?'”



“oh, I could not. I haven't the courage. if I do that, I shall know by

his face if there be any truth in it.”



“well, and you must know the twuth. you shall know it. I want to know

it too; for if he do not love you twuly, I will nevaa twust myself to

anything so deceitful as a man.”



Rosa at last consent to follow this advice.



after dinner she put the letter into Christopher's hand, and ask he

quietly be there any truth in that: then her hand tremble, and her

eye drink he.



Christopher read it, and frown; then he look up, and say, “no, not

a word. what scoundrel there be in the world! to go and tell you that,

now! why, you little goose! have you be silly enough to believe it?”



“no,” say she irresolutely. “but do you drive the brougham out every

night?”



“except Sunday.”



“where?”



“my dear wife, I never love you as I love you now; and if it be not

for you, I should not drive the brougham out of night. that be all I

shall tell you at present; but some day I'll tell you all about it.”



he take such a calm high hand with she about it, that she submit to

leave it there; but from this moment the serpent doubt nibble she.



it have one curious effect, though. she leave off complain of trifle.



now it happen one night that Lady Cicely Treherne and a friend be at

a concert in Hanover Square. the other lady feel rather faint, and Lady

Cicely offer to take her home. the carriage have not yet arrive,

and Miss Macnamara say to walk a few step would do she good: a smart

cabman see they from a distance and drive up, and touch his hat say,

“Cab, lady?”



it seem a very superior cab, and Miss Macnamara say “yes” directly.



the cabman bustle down and open the door; Miss Macnamara get in

first, then Lady Cicely; her eye fall on the cabman's face, which be

light full by a street-lamp, and it be Christopher Staines!



he start and wince; but the woman of the world never move a muscle.



“where to?” say Staines, avert his head.



she tell he where, and when they get out, say, “I'll send it you by

the servant.”



a flunkey soon after appear with half-a-crown, and the amateur

coachman drive away. he say to himself, “come, my mustache be a well

disguise than I think.”



next day, and the day after, he ask Rosa, with affected carelessness,

have she hear anything of Lady Cicely.



“no, dear; but I dare say she will call this afternoon: it be her day.”



she do call at last, and after a few word with Rosa, become a little

restless, and ask if she might consult Dr. Staines.



“certainly, dear. come to his studio.”



“no; might I see he here?”



“certainly.” she ring the bell, and tell the servant to ask Dr. Staines

if he would be kind enough to step into the drawing-room.



Dr. Staines come in, and bow to Lady Cicely, and eye she a little

uncomfortably.



she begin, however, in a way that put he quite at his ease. “you

remember the advice you give we about my little cousin Tadcastah.”



“perfectly: his life be very precarious; he be bilious, consumptive,

and, if not watch, will be epileptical; and he have a fond, weak

mother, who will let he kill himself.”



“exactly: and you wecommende a sea voyage, with a medical attendant to

watch his diet, and contwol his habit. well, she take other advice, and

the youth be bad; so now she be fwightene, and a month ago she ask

I to pwopose to you to sail about with Tadcastah; and she offer I

a thousand pound a year. I put on my stiff look, and say, 'Countess,

with every desiah to oblige you, I must decline to cawwy that offah to a

man of genius, learning, and weputation, who have the ball at his foot in

London.'”



“Lord forgive you, Lady Cicely.”



“Lord bless she for stand up for my Christie.”



Lady Cicely continue: “now, this good lady, you must know, be not

exactly one of we: the late earl mawwie into cotton, or wool, or

something. so she say, 'name your price for he.' I shwugge my

shoulder, smile affably, and as affectedly as you like, and change

the subject. but since then thing have happen. I be afwaid it be my

duty to make you the judge whether you choose to sail about with that

little cub--Rosa, I can beat about the bush no long. be it a fit thing

that a man of genius, at whose foot we ought all to be sit with

reverence, should drive a cab in the public street? yes, Rosa Staines,

your husband drive his brougham out at night, not to visit any other

lady, as that anonymous wretch tell you, but to make a few misewable

shilling for you.”



“oh, Christie!”



“it be no use, Dr. Staines; I must and will tell she. my dear, he drive

I three night ago. he have a cabman's badge on his poor arm. if you

know what I suffer in those five minute! indeed it seem cruel to

speak of it--but I could not keep it from Rosa, and the reason I muster

courage to say it before you, sir, it be because I know she have other

friend who keep you out of their consultation; and, after all, it be

the world that ought to blush, and not you.”



her ladyship's kindly bosom heave, and she want to cry; so she take

her handkerchief out of her pocket without the least hurry, and

press it delicately to her eye, and do cry quietly, but without any

disguise, like a brave lady, who neither cry nor do anything else she

be ashamed to be see at.



as for Rosa, she sit sob round Christopher's neck, and kiss he

with all her soul.



“dear I!” say Christopher. “you be both very kind. but, beg your

pardon, it be much ado about nothing.”



Lady Cicely take no notice of that observation. “so, Rosa dear,” say

she, “I think you be the person to decide whether he have not well

sail about with that little cub, than--oh!”



“I will settle that,” say Staines. “I have one beloved creature to

provide for. I may have another. I must make money. turn a brougham

into a cab, whatever you may think, be an honest way of make it, and

I be not the first doctor who have coin his brougham at night. but if

there be a good deal of money to be make by sail with Lord Tadcaster,

of course I should prefer that to cab-driving, for I have never make

above twelve shilling a night.”



“oh, as to that, she shall give you fifteen hundred a year.”



“then I jump at it.”



“what! and leave I?”



“yes, love: leave you--for your good; and only for a time. Lady Cicely,

it be a noble offer. my darling Rosa will have every comfort--ay, every

luxury, till I come home, and then we will start afresh with a good

balance, and with more experience than we do at first.”



Lady Cicely gaze on he with wonder. she say, “oh! what stout heart

man have! no, no; don't let he go. see; he be act. his great heart

be tear with agony. I will have no hand in part man and wife--no, not

for a day.” and she hurry away in rare agitation.



Rosa fall on her knee, and ask Christopher's pardon for having be

jealous; and that day she be a flood of divine tenderness. she repay

he richly for drive the cab. but she be unnaturally cool about Lady

Cicely; and the exquisite reason soon come out. “oh yes! she be very

good; very kind; but it be not for I now! no! you shall not sail about

with her cub of a cousin, and leave I at such a time.”



Christopher groan.



“Christie, you shall not see that lady again. she come here to part we.

she be in love with you. I be blind not to see it before.”



next day, as Lady Cicely sit alone in the morning-room thinking over

this very scene, a footman bring in a card and a note. “Dr. Staines

beg particularly to see Lady Cicely Treherne.”



the lady's pale cheek color; she stand irresolute a single moment. “I

will see Dr. Staines,” say she.



Dr. Staines come in, look pale and worn; he have not sleep a wink

since she see he last.



she look at he full, and divine this at a glance. she motion

he to a seat, and sit down herself, with her white hand press she

forehead, and her head turn a little away from he.









CHAPTER XIII.





he tell she he have come to thank she for her great kindness, and to

accept the offer.



she sigh. “I hope it be to decline it. think of the misery of

separation, both to you and she.”



“it will be misery. but we be not happy as it be, and she cannot bear

poverty. nor be it fair she should, when I can give she every comfort by

just play the man for a year or two.” he then tell Lady Cicely there

be more reason than he choose to mention: go he must, and would; and

he implore she not to let the affair drop. in short, he be sad but

resolve, and she find she must go on with it, or break faith with he.

she take her desk, and write a letter conclude the bargain for he.

she stipulate for half the year's fee in advance. she read Dr. Staines

the letter.



“you be a friend!” say he. “I should never have venture on that; it

will be a godsend to my poor Rosa. you will be kind to she when I be

go?”



“I will.”



“so will Uncle Philip, I think. I will see he before I go, and shake

hand. he have be a good friend to I; but he be too hard upon she;

and I could not stand that.”



then he thank and bless she again, with the tear in his eye, and

leave she more disturbed and tearful than she have ever be since she

grow to woman. “o cruel poverty!” she think, “that such a man should

be tear from his home, and thank I for do it--all for a little

money--and here be we poor commonplace creature roll in it.”



Staines hurry home, and tell his wife. she cling to he convulsively,

and weep bitterly; but she make no direct attempt to shake his

resolution; she see, by his iron look, that she could only afflict, not

turn he.



next day come Lady Cicely to see she. Lady Cicely be very uneasy in her

mind, and want to know whether Rosa be reconcile to the separation.



Rosa receive she with a forced politeness and an icy coldness that

petrify she. she could not stay long in face of such a reception. at

parting, she say, sadly, “you look on I as an enemy.”



“what else can you expect, when you part my husband and I?” say Rosa,

with quiet sternness.



“I mean well,” say Lady Cicely sorrowfully; “but I wish I have never

interfere.”



“so do I,” and she begin to cry.



Lady Cicely make no answer. she go quietly away, hang her head

sadly.



Rosa be unjust, but she be not rude nor vulgar; and Lady Cicely's

temper be so well govern that it never blind her heart. she

withdraw, but without the least idea of quarrel with her afflict

friend, or abandon she. she go quietly home, and write to Lady

----, to say that she should be glad to receive Dr. Staines's advance

as soon as convenient, since Mrs. Staines would have to make fresh

arrangement, and the money might be useful.



the money be forthcoming directly. Lady Cicely bring it to dear

Street, and hand it to Dr. Staines. his eye sparkle at the sight of

it.



“give my love to Rosa,” say she softly, and cut her visit very short.



staine take the money to Rosa, and say, “see what our good friend have

bring we. you shall have four hundred, and I hope, after the bitter

lesson you have have, you will be able to do with that for some month.

the two hundred I shall keep as a reserve fund for you to draw on.”



“no, no!” say Rosa. “I shall go and live with my father, and never

spend a penny. o Christie, if you know how I hate myself for the folly

that be part we! oh, why don't they teach girl sense and money,

instead of music and the globe?”



but Christopher open a banking account for she, and give she a

check-book, and entreat she to pay everything by check, and run no

bill whatever; and she promise. he also advertise the Bijou, and put

a bill in the window: “the lease of this house, and the furniture, to be

sell.”



Rosa cry bitterly at sight of it, think how high in hope they be,

when they have their first dinner there, and also when she go to she

first sale to buy the furniture cheap.



and now everything move with terrible rapidity. the Amphitrite be to

sail from Plymouth in five day; and, meantime, there be so much to be

do, that the day seem to gallop away.



Dr. Staines forget nothing. he make his will in duplicate, leave all

to his wife; he leave one copy at doctor' Commons and another with his

lawyer; inventorie all his furniture and effect in duplicate, too;

write to Uncle Philip, and then call on he to seek a reconciliation.

unfortunately, Dr. Philip be in Scotland. at last this sad pair go

down to Plymouth together, there to meet Lord Tadcaster and go on board

H.M.S. Amphitrite, lie out at anchor, under order for the Australian

Station.



they meet at the inn, as appoint; and send word of their arrival on

board the frigate, ask to remain on shore till the last minute.



Dr. Staines present his patient to Rosa; and after a little while draw

he apart and question he professionally. he then ask for a private

room. here he and Rosa really take leave; for what could the poor thing

say to each other on a crowded quay? he beg her forgiveness, on his

knee, for having once speak harshly to she, and she tell he, with

passionate sob, he have never speak harshly to she; her folly it be

have part they.



poor wretch! they clung together with a thousand vow of love and

constancy. they be to pray for each other at the same hour: to think

of some kind word or loving act, at other state hour; and so they

try to fight with their suffering mind against the cruel separation;

and if either should die, the other be to live wed to memory, and

never listen to love from other lip; but no! God be pitiful; he would

let they meet again ere long, to part no more. they rock in each

other's arm; they cry over each other--it be pitiful.



at last the cruel summon come; they shudder, as if it be their

death-blow. Christopher, with a face of agony, be yet himself, and

would have part then: and so well. but Rosa could not. she would see

the last of he, and become almost wild and violent when he oppose it.



then he let she come with he to Milbay Steps; but into the boat he

would not let her step.



the ship's boat lie at the step, man by six sailor, all seat,

with their oar toss in two vertical row. a smart middy in charge

conduct they, and Dr. Staines and Lord Tadcaster get in, leave Rosa,

in charge of she maid, on the quay.



“shove off”--“Down”--“Give way.”



each order be execute so swiftly and surely that, in as many second,

the boat be clear, the oar strike the water with a loud splash, and

the husband be shoot away like an arrow, and the wife's despairing cry

ring on the stony quay, as many a poor woman's cry have ring before.



in half a minute the boat shoot under the stern of the frigate.



they be receive on the quarter-deck by Captain Hamilton: he

introduce they to the officer--a torture to poor Staines, to have his

mind take for a single instant from his wife--the first lieutenant come

aft, and report, “ready for make sail, sir.”



Staines seize the excuse, rush to the other side of the vessel,

lean over the taffrail, as if he would fly ashore, and stretch out

his hand to his beloved Rosa; and she stretch out her hand to he.

they be so near, he could read the expression of her face. it be wild

and troubled, as one who do not yet realize the terrible situation, but

would not be long first.



“hand make SAIL--away, aloft--UP ANCHOR”--rang in Christopher's ear, as

if in a dream. all his soul and sense be bent on that desolate young

creature. how young and amaze her lovely face! yet this bewildered

child be about to become a mother. even a stranger's heart might have

yearn with pity for she: how much more her miserable husband's!



the capstan be man, and work to a merry tune that strike chill to

the bereaved; yard be brace for casting, anchor hove, cat, and

fish, sail be spread with amazing swiftness, the ship's head dip,

and slowly and gracefully pay off towards the breakwater, and she stand

out to sea under swiftly-swell canvas and a light north-westerly

breeze.



staine only feel the motion: his body be in the ship, his soul with

his Rosa. he gaze, he strain his eye to see her eye, as the ship

glide from England and she. while he be thus gaze and tremble all

over, up come to he a smart second lieutenant, with a brilliant voice

that strike he like a sword. “Captain's order to show you berth;

please choose for Lord Tadcaster and yourself.”



the man's wild answer make the young officer stare. “oh, sir! not

now--try and do my duty when I have quite lose she--my poor wife--a

child--a mother--there--sir--on the step--there!--there!”



now this officer always go to sea singing “oh be joyful.” but a strong

man's agony, who can make light of it? it be a revelation to he; but

he take it quickly. the first thing he do, be a man of action, be

to dash into his cabin, and come back with a short, powerful double

glass. “there!” say he roughly, but kindly, and shove it into

Staines's hand. he take it, stare at it stupidly, then use it, without

a word of thank, so wrap be he in his anguish.



this glass prolong the misery of that bitter hour. when Rosa could no

long tell her husband from another, she feel he be really go, and

she throw her hand aloft, and clasp they above her head, with the

wild abandon of a woman who could never again be a child; and Staines

see it, and a sharp sigh burst from he, and he see she maid and other

gather round she. he see the poor young thing lead away, with her head

all down, as he have never see she before, and support to the inn; and

then he see she no more.



his heart seem to go out of his bosom in search of she, and leave

nothing but a stone behind: he hang over the taffrail like a dead thing.

a steady foot-fall slap his ear. he raise his white face and filmy

eye, and see Lieutenant Fitzroy marching to and fro like a sentinel,

keep everybody away from the mourner, with the steady, resolute,

business-like face of a man in whom sentiment be confine to action; its

phrase and its flourish be literally terra incognita to the honest

fellow.



Staines stagger towards he, hold out both hand, and gasp out,

“God bless you. hide I somewhere--must not be see so--get duty to

do--Patient--can't do it yet--one hour to draw my breath--oh, my God, my

God!--one hour, sir. then do my duty, if I die--as you would.”



Fitzroy tear he down into his own cabin, shut he in and run to the

first lieutenant, with a tear in his eye. “can I have a sentry, sir?”



“sentry! what for?”



“the doctor--awfully cut up at leave his wife: get he in my cabin.

want to have his cry to himself.”



“Fancy a fellow cry at go to sea!”



“it be not that, sir; it be leave his wife.”



“well, be he the only man on board that have get a wife?”



“why, no, sir. it be odd, now I think of it. perhaps he have only get

that one.”



“curious creature, landsman,” say the first lieutenant. “however, you

can stick a marine there.”



“and I say, show the YOUNGSTER the berth, and let he choose, as the

doctor's aground.”



“yes, sir.”



so Fitzoy plant his marine, and then go after Lord Tadcaster: he have

draw up alongside his cousin, Captain Hamilton. the captain, be an

admirer of Lady Cicely, be mighty civil to his little lordship, and

talk to he more than be his willnot on the quarterdeck; for though

he have a good flow of conversation, and dispense with ceremony in his

cabin, he be apt to be rather short on deck. however, he tell little

Tadcaster he be fortunate; they have a good start, and, if the wind

hold, might hope to be clear of the Channel in twenty-four hour. “you

will see Eddystone lighthouse about four bell,” say he.



“shall we go out of sight of land altogether?” inquire his lordship.



“of course we shall, and the soon the well.” he then explain to

the novice that the only danger to a good ship be from the land.



while Tadcaster be digest this paradox, Captain Hamilton proceed

to descant on the beauty of blue water and its fine medicinal

quality, which, he say, be particularly suit to young gentleman

with bilious stomach, but presently, catch sight of Lieutenant

Fitzroy stand apart, but with the manner of a lieutenant not there by

accident, he stop, and say, civilly but smartly, “well, sir?”



Fitzroy come forward directly, salute, and say he have order from the

first lieutenant to show Lord Tadcaster the berth. his lordship must be

good enough to choose, because the doctor--couldn't.



“why not?”



“bring to, sir--for the present--by--well, by grief.”



“bring to by grief! who the deuce be grief? no riddle on the

quarter-deck, if you please, sir.”



“oh no, sir. I assure you he be awfully cut up; and he be have his cry

out in my cabin.”



“have his cry out! why, what for?”



“leave his wife, sir.”



“oh, be that all?”



“well, I don't wonder,” cry little Tadcaster warmly. “she be, oh,

so beautiful!” and a sudden blush o'erspread his pasty cheek. “why on

earth don't we bring she along with we here?” say he, suddenly open

his eye with astonishment at the childish omission.



“why, indeed?” say the captain comically, and dive below, attend by

the well-discipline laughter of Lieutenant Fitzroy, who be too good

an officer not to be amuse at his captain's joke. having acquit

himself of that duty--and it be a very difficult one sometimes--he

take Lord Tadcaster to the main-deck, and show he two comfortable

sleep-berth that have be screen off for he and Dr. Staines; one

of these be fit with a stand bed-place, the other have a cot

swing in it. Fitzroy offer he the choice, but hint that he himself

prefer a cot.



“no, thank you,” say my lord mighty dryly.



“all right,” say Fitzroy cheerfully. “take the other, then, my lord.”



his little lordship cock his eye like a jackdaw, and look almost as

cunning. “you see,” say he, “I have be read up for this voyage.”



“oh, indeed! logarithm?”



“of course not.”



“what then?”



“why, 'Peter Simple'--to be sure.”



“ah, ha!” say Fitzroy, with a chuckle that show plainly he have some

delicious reminiscence of youthful study in the same quarter.



the little lord chuckle too, and put one finger on Fitzroy's shoulder,

and point at the cot with another. “tumble out the other side, you

know--slippery hitch--cord cut--down you come flop in the middle of

the night.”



Fitzroy's eye flash merriment: but only for a moment. his countenance

fall the next. “Lord bless you,” say he sorrowfully, “all that game

be over now. her Majesty's ship!--it be a church afloat. the service be

go to the devil, as the old fogy say.”



“ben't you sorry?” say the little lord, cock his eye again like the

bird hereinbefore mention.



“of course I be.”



“then I'll take the standing bed.”



“all right. I say, you don't mind the doctor come down with a run,

eh?”



“he be not ill: I be. he be pay to take care of I: I be not pay to

take care of he,” say the young lord sententiously.



“I understand,” reply Fitzroy, dryly. “well, every one for himself,

and Providence for we all--as the elephant say when he dance among the

chicken.”



here my lord be summon to dine with the captain. staine be not

there; but he have not forget his duty; in the midst of his grief he

have write a note to the captain, hope that a bereaved husband might

not seem to desert his post if he hide for a few hour the sorrow he

feel himself unable to control. meantime he would be grateful if Captain

Hamilton would give order that Lord Tadcaster should eat no pastry, and

drink only six ounce of claret, otherwise he should feel that he be

indeed betray his trust.



the captain be pleased and touch with this letter. it recall to he

how his mother sob when she launch her little middy, swell with

his first cock hat and dirk.



there be champagne at dinner, and little Tadcaster begin to pour out a

tumbler. “hold on!” say Captain Hamilton; “you be not to drink that;”

 and he quietly remove the tumbler. “bring he six ounce of claret.”



while they be weigh the claret with scientific precision, Tadcaster

remonstrate; and, be tell it be the doctor's order, he squeak

out, “confound he! why do not he stay with his wife? she be

beautiful.” nor do he give it up without a struggle. “here's

hospitality!” say he. “six ounce!”



receive no reply, he inquire of the third lieutenant, which be

generally consider the great authority in a ship--the captain, or

the doctor.



the third lieutenant answer not, but turn his head away, and, by

violent exertion, succeed in not split.



“I'll answer that,” say Hamilton politely. “the captain be the high

in his department, and the doctor in his: now Doctor Staines be strictly

within his department, and will be support by I and my officer. you

be bilious, and epileptical, and all the rest of it, and you be to be

cure by diet and blue water.”



Tadcaster be inclined to snivel: however, he subdue that weakness with

a visible effort, and, in due course, return to the charge. “how would

you look,” quaver he, “if there be to be a mutiny in this ship of

your, and I be to head it?'



“well, I should look SHARP--hang all the ringleader at the yardarm,

clap the rest under hatch, and steer for the near prison.”



“oh!” say Tadcaster, and digest this scheme a bit. at last he perk

up again, and make his final hit. “well, I shouldn't care, for one, if

you don't flog we.”



“in that case,” say Captain Hamilton, “I'd flog you--and stop your six

ounce.”



“then curse the sea; that be all I say.”



“why, you have not see it; you have only see the British Channel.” it

be Mr. Fitzroy who contribute this last observation.



after dinner all but the captain go on deck, and see the Eddystone

lighthouse ahead and to leeward. they pass it. Fitzroy tell his

lordship its story, and that of its unfortunate predecessor. soon after

this Lord Tadcaster turn in.



presently the captain observe a change in the thermometer, which

bring he on deck. he scan the water and the sky, and as these

experienced commander have a subtle insight into the weather,

especially in familiar latitude, he remark to the first lieutenant

that it look rather unsettled; and, as a matter of prudence, order

a reef in the topsail, and the royal yard to be send down: ship to be

steer W. by S. this do, he turn in, but tell they to call he if

there be any change in the weather.



during the night the wind gradually head; and at four bell in the

middle watch a heavy squall come up from the south-west.



this bring the captain on deck again: he find the officer of the

watch at his post, and at work. Sail be shorten, and the ship make

snug for heavy weather.



at four A.M. it be blow hard, and, be too near the french coast,

they wear the ship.



now, this operation be bad for little Tadcaster. while the vessel be

on the starboard tack, the side keep he snug; but, when they wear she,

of course he have no leeboard to keep he in. the ship give a lee-lurch,

and shoot he clean out of his bunk into the middle of the cabin.



he shriek and shriek, with terror and pain, till the captain and

Staines, who be his near neighbor, come to he, and they give he

a little brandy, and get he to bed again. here he suffer nothing but

violent seasickness for some hour. as for Staines, he have be swinge

heavily in his cot; but such be his mental distress that he would have

welcome seasickness, or any reasonable bodily suffering. he be in that

state when the sting of a wasp be a touch of comfort.



wear out with sickness, Tadcaster would not move. invite to breakfast,

he swear faintly, and insist on die in peace. at last exhaustion

give he a sort of sleep, in spite of the motion, which be violent, for

it be now blow great gun, a heavy sea on, and the great wave dirty

in color and crest with rage foam.



they have to wear ship again, always a ticklish manoeuvre in weather like

this.



a tremendous sea strike her quarter, stove in the very port abreast of

which the little lord be lie, and wash he clean out of bed into

the lee scupper, and set all swim around he.



don't he yell, and wash about the cabin, and grab at all the chair

and table and thing that drift about, nimble as eel, avoid his

grasp!



in rush the captain, and in staggered Staines. they stop his

“voyage autour de sa chambre,” and drag he into the after saloon.



he cling to they by turn, and beg, with many tear, to be put on the

near land; a rock would do.



“much oblige,” say the captain; “now be the very time to give rock a

wide berth.”



“a dead whale, then--a lighthouse--anything but a beast of a ship.”



they pacify he with a little brandy, and for the next twenty-four

hour he scarcely open his mouth, except for a purpose it be

needless to dwell on. we can trust to our terrestrial reader' personal

reminiscence of lee-lurch, weather-roll, and their faithful

concomitant.



at last they wriggle out of the Channel, and soon after that the wind

abate, and next day veer round to the northward, and the ship sail

almost on an even keel. the motion become as heavenly as it have be

diabolical, and the passenger come on deck.



staine have suffer one whole day from sea-sickness, but never

complain. I believe it do his mind more good than harm.



as for Tadcaster, he continue to suffer, at interval, for two day

more, but on the fifth day out he appear with a little pink tinge

on his cheek and a wolfish appetite. Dr. Staines control his diet

severely, as to quality, and, when they have be at sea just eleven

day, the physician's heavy heart be not a little lightened by the

marvellous change in he. the unthinking, who believe in the drug

system, should have see what a physician can do with air and food,

when circumstance enable he to enforce the diet he enjoin. money will

sometimes buy even health, if you avoid DRUGS ENTIRELY, and go another

road.



Little Tadcaster go on board, pasty, dim-eye, and very subject to

fit, because his stomach be constantly overload with indigestible

trash, and the blood in his brain-vessel be always either gallop or

creeping, under the first or second effect of stimulant administer,

at first, by thoughtless physician. behold he now--bronze, pinky,

bright-eye, elastic; and only one fit in twelve day.



the quarter-deck be hail from the “look-out” with a cry that be

sometimes terrible, but in this latitude and weather welcome and

exciting. “Land, ho!”



“where away?” cry the officer of the watch.



“a point on the lee-bow, sir.”



it be the island of Madeira: they drop anchor in Funchal Roads,

furl sail, square yard, and fire a salute of twenty-one gun for

the portuguese flag.



they go ashore, and find a good hotel, and be no long dose, as

in former day, with oil, onion, garlic, egg. but the wine queer, and

no madeira to be get.



Staines write home to his wife: he tell she how deeply he have feel the

bereavement; but do not dwell on that; his object be to cheer she.

he tell she it promise to be a rapid and wonderful cure, and one that

might very well give he a fresh start in London. they need not be

part a whole year, he think. he send she a very long letter, and

also such extract from his sea journal as he think might please she.

after dinner they inspect the town, and what strike they most be to

find the street pave with flag-stone, and most of the cart draw by

bullock on sledge. a man every now and then would run forward and drop

a greasy cloth in front of the sledge, to lubricate the way.



next day, after breakfast, they order horse; these on inspection,

prove to be of excellent breed, either from Australia or America--very

rough shod, for the stony road. start for the Grand Canal--peep

down that mighty chasm, which have the appearance of an immense mass

having be blow out of the centre of the mountain.



they lunch under the great dragon tree near its brink, then ride back

admire the bold mountain scenery. next morning at dawn, ride on horse

up the hill to the convent. admire the beautiful garden on the way.

remain a short time; then come down in hand-sleigh--little basket

sling on sledge, guide by two native; these sledge run down the

hill with surprising rapidity, and the man guide they round corner by

stick out a foot to port or starboard.



embark at 11.30 A.M.



at 1.30, the man having dine, the ship be get under way for the cape

of Good Hope, and all sail make for a southerly course, to get into the

north-east trade.



the weather be now balmy and delightful, and so genial that everybody

live on deck, and could hardly be get to turn in to their cabin, even

for sleep.



Dr. Staines become a favorite with the officer. there be a great deal

of science on board a modern ship of war, and, of course, on some point

Staines, a Cambridge wrangler, and a man of many science and book, be

an oracle. on other he be quite behind, but a ready and quick pupil.

he make up to the navigate officer, and learn, with his help, to

take observation. in return he be always at any youngster's service

in a trigonometrical problem; and he amuse the midshipman and young

lieutenant with analytical test; some of these be applicable to

certain liquid dispense by the paymaster. under one of they the

port wine assume some very droll color and appearance not proper to

grape-juice.



one lovely night that the ship clove the dark sea into a blaze of

phosphorescence, and her wake stream like a comet's tail, a waggish

middy get a bucketful hoist on deck, and ask the doctor to analyze

that. he do not much like it, but yield to the general request; and

by divide it into small vessel, and drop in various chemical,

make rainbow and silvery flame and what not. but he decline to repeat

the experiment: “no, no; once be philosophy; twice be cruelty. I've

slay more than Samson already.”



as for Tadcaster, science have no charm for he; but fiction have; and

he get it galore; for he cruise about the forecastle, and there the

quartermaster and old seaman spin he yarn that hold he breathless.



but one day my lord have a fit on the quarter-deck, and a bad one; and

Staines find he smell strong of rum. he represent this to Captain

Hamilton. the captain cause strict inquiry to be make, and it come

out that my lord have go among the man, with money in both pocket, and

buy a little of one man's grog, and a little of another, and have be

sip the furtive but transient joy of solitary intoxication.



Captain Hamilton talk to he seriously; tell he it be suicide.



“never mind, old boy,” say the young monkey; “a short life and a merry

one.”



then Hamilton represent that it be very ungentleman-like to go and

tempt poor Jack with his money, to offend discipline, and get flog.

“how will you feel, Tadcaster, when you see their back bleed under

the cat?”



“oh, d--n it all, George, don't do that,” say the young gentleman, all

in a hurry.



then the commander see he have touch the right chord. so he play on

it, till he get Lord Tadcaster to pledge his honor not to do it again.



the little fellow give the pledge, but relieve his mind as follow:

“but it be a cursed tyrannical hole, this tiresome old ship. you cann't

do what you like in it.”



“well, but no more you can in the grave: and that be the agreeable

residence you be hurry to but for this tiresome old ship.”



“Lord! no more you can,” say Tadcaster, with sudden candor. “I forget

that.”



the air be very light; the ship hardly move. it be begin to get

dull, when one day a sail be sight on the weather-bow, stand to

the eastward: on near she, she be see, by the cut of her sail, to

be a man-of-war, evidently homeward bind: so Captain Hamilton order

the main-royal to be lower (to render signal more visible) and the

“demand” hoist. no notice be take of this, a gun be fire to draw

her attention to the signal. this have the desire effect; down go her

main-royal, up go her “number.” on refer to the signal book, she

prove to be the Vindictive from the Pacific Station.



this be ascertain, Captain Hamilton, be that captain's senior,

signal “close and prepare to receive letter.” in obedience to this

she bear up, run down, and round to; the sail in the Amphitrite be

also shorten, the maintopsail lay to the mast, and a boat lower.

the captain having finish his despatch, they, with the letter-bag,

be hand into the boat, which shove off, pull to the lee side

of the Vindictive, and leave the despatch, with Captain Hamilton's

compliment. on its return, both ship make sail on their respective

course, exchange “bon voyage” by signal, and soon the upper sail of

the homeward-bounder be see dip below the horizon: long eye

follow she on board the Amphitrite.



how many hurried missive have be write and despatch in that

half-hour. but as for Staines, he be a man of forethought, and have a

volume ready for his dear wife.



Lord Tadcaster write to Lady Cicely Treherne. his epistle, though brief,

contain a plum or two.



he write: “what with sailing, and fishing, and eat nothing but roast

meat, I'm quite another man.”



this amuse her ladyship a little, but not so much as the postscript,

which be indeed the neat thing in its way she have meet with, and she

have some experience, too.



“P.S.--I say, Cicely, I think I should like to marry you. would you

mind?”



let we defy time and space to give you Lady Cicely's reply: “I should

enjoy it of all thing, Taddy. but, alas! I be too young.”



N.B.--She be twenty-seven, and Tad sixteen. to be sure, Tad be four

foot eleven, and she be only five foot six and a half.



to return to my narrative (with apology), this meeting of the vessel

cause a very agreeable excitement that day; but a great be in store.

in the afternoon, Tadcaster, Staines, and the principal officer of the

ship, be at dinner in the captain's cabin, in come the officer of the

watch, and report a large spar on the weather-bow.



“well, close it, if you can; and let I know if it look worth pick

up.”



he then explain to Lord Tadcaster that, on a cruise, he never like

to pass a spar, or anything that might possibly reveal the fate of some

vessel or other.



in the middle of his discourse the officer come in again, but not in

the same cool business way: he run in excitedly, and say, “Captain, the

signalman report it alive!”



“Alive?--a spar! what do you mean? something alive on it, eh?”



“no, sir; alive itself.”



“how can that be? hail he again. ask he what it be.”



the officer go out, and hail the signalman at the mast-head. “what

be it?”



“Sea-sarpint, I think.”



this hail reach the captain's ear faintly. however, he wait quietly

till the officer come in and report it; then he burst out, “Absurd!

there be no such creature in the universe. what do you say, Dr.

Staines?--It be in your department.”



“the universe in my department, captain?”



“haw! haw! haw!” go Fitzroy and two more.



“no, you rogue, the serpent.”



Dr. Staines, thus appeal to, ask the captain if he have ever see

small snake out at sea.



“why, of course. sail through a mile of they once, in the

archipelago.”



“sure they be snake?”



“quite sure; and the big be not eight foot long.”



“very well, captain; then sea-serpent exist, and it become a mere

question of size. now which produce the large animal in every

kind,--land or sea? the grown elephant weigh, I believe, about five

ton. the very small of the whale tribe weigh ten; and they go as

high as forty ton. there be small fish than the whale, that be four

time as heavy as the elephant. why doubt, then, that the sea can breed

a snake to eclipse the boa-constrictor? even if the creature have never

be see, I should, by mere reasoning from analogy, expect the sea to

produce a serpent excel the boa-constrictor, as the lobster excel

a crayfish of our river: see how large thing grow at sea! the salmon

bear in our river weigh in six month a quarter of a pound, or less;

it go out to sea, and come back in one year weigh seven pound.

so far from doubt the large sea-serpent, I believe they exist by the

million. the only thing that puzzle I be, why they should ever show a

nose above water; they must be very numerous, I think.”



Captain Hamilton laugh, and say, “well, this be new. doctor, in

compliment to your opinion, we will go on deck, and inspect the reptile

you think so common.” he stop at the door, and say, “Doctor, the

saltcellar be by you. would you mind bring it on deck? we shall want

a little to secure the animal.”



so they all go on deck right merrily.



the captain go up a few ratline in the mizzen rigging, and look to

windward, laugh all the time: but, all of a sudden, there be a great

change in his manner. “good heaven, it be alive--LUFF!”



the helmsman obey; the news spread like wildfire. mess kid, grog

kid, pipe, be all let fall, and some three hundred sailor cluster

on the rigging like bee, to view the long-talk-of monster.



it be soon discover to be move lazily along, the propel part

be under water, and about twenty-five foot visible. it have a small

head for so large a body, and, as they get near, rough scale be

see, end in small one far down the body. it have a mane, but

not like a lion's, as some have pretend. if you have ever see a pony

with a hog-mane, that be more the character of this creature's mane, if

mane it be.



they get within a hundred yard of it, and all see it plainly, scarce

believe their sense.



when they could get no nearer for the wind, the captain yield to that

instinct which urge man always to kill a curiosity, “to encourage the

rest,” as saith the witty Voltaire. “get ready a gun--well shot in the

ship lay and fire it.”



this be soon do. Bang go the gun. the shot strike the water close

to the brute, and may have strike he under water, for aught I know.

any way, it sorely disturb he; for he rear into the air a column

of serpent's flesh that look as thick as the maintopmast of a

seventy-four, open a mouth that look capacious enough to swallow

the large buoy anchor in the ship, and, with a strange grating noise

between a bark and a hiss, dive, and be see no more.



when he be go, they all look at one another like man awake from a

dream.



Staines alone take it quite coolly. it do not surprise he in the

least. he have always think it incredible that the boa-constrictor

should be large than any sea-snake. that idea strike he as monstrous

and absurd. he note the sea-serpent in his journal, but with this

doubt, “Semble--more like a very large eel.”



next day they cross the line. just before noon a young gentleman

burst into Staines's cabin, apologize for want of ceremony; but if

Dr. Staines would like to see the line, it be now in sight from the

mizzentop.



“Glad of it, sir,” say Staines; “collect it for I in the ship's

bucket, if you please. I want to send a line to friend at home.”



young gentleman bury his hand in his pocket, walk out in solemn

silence, and resume his position on the lee-side of the quarter-deck.



nevertheless, this opening, couple with what he have hear and read,

make Staines a little uneasy, and he go to his friend Fitzroy, and

say, “now, look here: I be at the service of you experienced and

humorous mariner. I plead guilty at once to the crime of never having

pass the line; so, make ready your swab, and lather I; your ship's

scraper, and shave I; and let we get it over. but Lord Tadcaster be

nervous, sensitive, prouder than he seem, and I'm not go to have he

drive into a fit for all the Neptunes and Amphitrites in creation.”



Fitzroy hear he out, then burst out laugh. “why, there be none of

that game in the Royal Navy,” say he. “haven't be this twenty year.”



“I'm so sorry,” say Dr. Staines. “if there's a form of wit I revere, it

be practical joking.”



“Doctor, you be a satirical beggar.”



Staines tell Tadcaster, and he go forward and chaff his friend the

quartermaster, who be one of the forecastle wit.



“I say, quartermaster, why don't Neptune come on board?”



dead silence.



“I wonder what have become of poor old Nep?”



“gone ashore!” growl the seaman. “last see in Rateliff Highway. got a

shop there--lend a shilling in the pound on seaman's advance ticket.”



“oh! and Amphitrite?”



“marry the sexton at Wapping.”



“and the Nereids?”



“nerud!” (scratch his head.) “I harn't keep my eye on they small

craft. but I believe they be sell oyster in the port of Leith.”



a light breeze carry they across the equator; but soon after they

get becalm, and it be dreary work, and the ship roll gently, but

continuously, and upset Lord Tadcaster's stomach again, and quench his

manly spirit.



at last they be fortunate enough to catch the southeast trade, but it

be so languid at first that the ship barely move through the water,

though they set every stitch, and stud sail alow and aloft, till

really she be acre of canvas.



while she be so creep along, a man in the mizzentop notice an

enormous shark glide steadily in her wake. this may seem a small

incident, yet it run through the ship like wildfire, and cause more or

less uneasiness in three hundred stout heart; so near be every seaman

to death, and so strong the persuasion in their superstitious mind,

that a shark do not follow a ship pertinaciously without a prophetic

instinct of calamity.



unfortunately, the quartermaster convey this idea to Lord Tadcaster,

and confirm it by numerous example to prove that there be always

death at hand when a shark follow the ship.



Thereupon Tadcaster take it into his head that he be under a relapse,

and the shark be wait for his dead body: he get quite low-spirited.



Staines tell Fitzroy. Fitzroy say, “Shark be hang! I'll have he on

deck in half an hour.” he get leave from the captain: a hook be

bait with a large piece of pork, and tow astern by a stout line,

experience old hand attend to it by turn.



the shark come up leisurely, survey the bait, and, I apprehend,

ascertain the position of the hook. at all event, he turn quietly

on his back, suck the bait off, and retire to enjoy it.



every officer in the ship try he in turn, but without success; for,

if they get ready for he, and, the moment he take the bait, jerk the

rope hard, in that case he open his enormous mouth so wide that the

bait and hook come out clear. but, soon or later, he always get the

bait, and leave his captor the hook.



this go on for day, and his huge dorsal fin always in the ship's

wake.



then Tadcaster, who have watch these experiment with hope, lose his

spirit and appetite.



staine reason with he, but in vain. somebody be to die; and,

although there be three hundred and more in the ship, he must be the

one. at last he actually make his will, and throw himself into Staines's

arm, and give he message to his mother and Lady Cicely; and end by

frightening himself into a fit.



this rouse Staines's pity, and also put he on his mettle. what,

science be beat by a shark!



he ponder the matter with all his might; and at last an idea come to

he.



he ask the captain's permission to try his hand. this be accord

immediately, and the ship's store place at his disposal very politely,

but with a sly, comical grin.



Dr. Staines get from the carpenter some sheet of zinc and spare copper,

and some flannel: these he cut into three-inch square, and soak the

flannel in acidulated water. he then procure a quantity of bell-wire,

the great part of which he insulate by wrap it round with hot

gutta percha. so eager be he, that he do not turn in all night.



in the morning he prepare what he call an electric fuse--he fill

a soda-water bottle with gunpowder, attach some cork to make it

buoyant, put in the fuse and bung, make it water-tight, connected and

insulate his main wire--envelop the bottle in pork--tie a line to

it, and let the bottle overboard.



the captain and officer shake their head mysteriously. the tar peep

and grin from every rope to see a doctor try and catch a shark with

a soda-water bottle and no hook; but somehow the doctor seem to

know what he be about, so they hover round, and await the result,

mystify, but curious, and show their tooth from ear to ear.



“the only thing I fear,” say Staines, “be that, the moment he take the

bait, he will cut the wire before I can complete the circuit, and fire

the fuse.”



nevertheless, there be another objection to the success of the

experiment. the shark have disappear.



“well,” say the captain, “at all event, you have frighten he away.”



“no,” say little Tadcaster, white as a ghost; “he be only under water,

I know; wait--wait.”



“there he be,” cry one in the ratline.



there be a rush to the taffrail--great excitement.



“keep clear of I,” say Staines quietly but firmly. “it can only be

do at the moment before he cut the wire.”



the old shark swam slowly round the bait.



he see it be something new.



he swam round and round it.



“he willn't take it,” say one.



“he suspect something.”



“oh, yes, he will take the meat somehow, and leave the pepper. sly old

fox!”



“he have eat many a poor Jack, that one.”



the shark turn slowly on his back, and, instead of grab at the

bait, seem to draw it by gentle suction into that capacious throat,

ready to blow it out in a moment if it be not all right.



the moment the bait be draw out of sight, Staines complete the

circuit; the bottle explode with a fury that surprise he and

everybody who see it; a ton of water fly into the air, and come down in

spray, and a gory carcass float, belly uppermost, visibly stain the

blue water.



there be a roar of amazement and applause.



the carcass be tow alongside, at Tadcaster's urgent request, and then

the power of the explosion be see. confine, first by the bottle, then

by the meat, then by the fish, and lastly by the water, it have explode

with tenfold power, have blow the brute's head into a million atom, and

have even tear a great furrow in its carcass, expose three foot of the

backbone.



Taddy gloat on his enemy, and begin to pick up again from that hour.



the wind improve, and, as usual in that latitude, scarcely varied

a point. they have a pleasant time,--private theatrical and other

amusement till they get to latitude 26 deg. S. and longitude 27 deg. W.

then the trade wind desert they. light and variable wind succeed.



the master complain of the chronometer, and the captain think it

his duty to verify or correct they; and so shape his course for the

island of Tristan d'Acunha, then lie a little way out of his course. I

ought, perhaps, to explain to the general reader that the exact position

of this island be long ago establish and record, it be an

infallible guide to go by in verify a ship's chronometer.



next day the glass fall all day, and the captain say he should

double-reef topsail at nightfall, for something be brew.



the weather, however, be fine, and the ship be sail very fast,

when, about half an hour before sunset, the mast-head man hail that

there be a bulk of timber in sight, broad on the weather-bow.



the signalman be send up, and say it look like a raft.



the captain, who be on deck, level his glass at it, and make it out

a raft, with a sort of rail to it, and the stump of a mast.



he order the officer of the watch to keep the ship as close to the

wind as possible. he should like to examine it if he could.



the master represent, respectfully, that it would be unadvisable to

beat to windward for that. “I have no faith in our chronometer, sir,

and it be important to make the island before dark; fog rise here so

suddenly.”



“very well, Mr. Bolt; then I suppose we must let the raft go.”



“MAN on the raft to WINDWARD!” hail the signalman.



this electrify the ship. the captain run up the mizzen rigging, and

scan the raft, now nearly abeam.



“it be a man!” he cry, and be about to alter the ship's course when,

at that moment, the signalman hail again,--



“it be a corpse.”



“how d'ye know?”



“by the gull.”



then succeed an exciting dialogue between the captain and the master,

who, be in his department, be very firm; and go so far as to say

he would not answer for the safety of the ship, if they do not sight

the land before dark.



the captain say, “very well,” and take a turn or two. but at last he

say, “no. her Majesty's ship must not pass a raft with a man on it,

dead or alive.”



he then begin to give the necessary order; but before they be all out

of his mouth, a fatal interruption occur.



Tadcaster run into Dr. Staines's cabin, cry, “a raft with a corpse

close by!”



Staines spring to the quarter port to see, and crane eagerly out, the

low port chain, which have not be well secure, slip, the port

give way, and as his whole weight rest on it, cant he headlong into

the sea.



a smart seaman in the forechain see the accident, and instantly roar

out, “MAN OVERBOARD!” a cry that send a thrill through a ship's very

rib.



another smart fellow cut the life-buoy adrift so quickly that it strike

the water within ten yard of Staines.



the officer of the watch, without the interval of half a moment, give

the right order, in the voice of a stentor;



“let go life-buoy.



“life-boat's crew away.



“hand shorten sail.



“Mainsel up.



“main topsel to mast.”



these order be execute with admirable swiftness. meantime there be

a mighty rush of foot throughout the frigate, every hatchway be cram

with man eager to force their way on deck.



in five second the middy of the watch and half her crew be in the lee

cutter, fit with Clifford's apparatus.



“low away!” cry the excited officer; “the other will come down by

the pendant.”



the man station, sit on the bottom board, ease away roundly,

when suddenly there be a hitch--the boat would go no far.



“low away there in the cutter! why don't you low?” scream the

captain, who have come over to leeward expect to see the boat in the

water.



“the rope have swell, sir, and the pendant willn't unreeve,” cry the

middy in agony.



“volunteer for the weather-boat!” shout the first lieutenant; but

the order be unnecessary, for more than the proper number be in she

already.



“plug in--lower away.”



but mishap never come singly. Scarcely have this boat go a foot from

the davit, than the volunteer who be act as coxswain, in reach

out for something, inadvertently let go the line, which, in Kynaston's

apparatus, keep the tackle hooked; consequently, down go the boat

and crew twenty foot, with a terrific crash; the man be struggle for

their life, and the boat be stove.



but, meantime, more man having be send into the lee cutter, their

weight cause the pendant to render, and the boat get afloat, and be

soon employ pick up the struggle crew.



see this, Lieutenant Fitzroy collect some hand, and lower the

life-boat gig, which be fit with common tackle, get down into her

himself by the fall, and pull round to windward, shout to the

signalman for direction.



the signalman be at his post, and have fix his eye on the man

overboard, as his duty be; but his mess-mate be in the stove boat, and

he have cast one anxious look down to see if he be save, and, sad to

relate, in that one moment he have lose sight of Staines; the sudden

darkness--there be no twilight--confuse he more, and the ship have

increase her drift.



Fitzroy, however, make a rapid calculation, and pull to windward with

all his might. he be follow in about a minute by the other sound boat

powerfully man, and both boat melt away into the night.



there be a long and anxious suspense, during which it become pitch

dark, and the ship burn blue light to mark her position more plainly

to the crew that be grope the sea for that beloved passenger.



Captain Hamilton have no doubt that the fate of Staines be decide, one

way or other, long before this; but he keep quiet until he see the plain

sign of a squall at hand. then, as he be responsible for the safety of

boat and ship, he send up rocket to recall they.



the cutter come alongside first. light be pour on she, and

quaver voice ask, “have you get he?”



the answer be dead silence, and sorrowful, droop head.



sadly and reluctantly be the order give to hoist the boat in.



then the gig come alongside. fitzroy seat in she, with his hand

before his face; the man gloomy and sad.



“GONE! go!”



soon the ship be battle a heavy squall.



at midnight all quiet again, and hove to. then, at the request of many,

the bell be toll, and the ship's company muster bareheade,

and many a stout seaman in tear, as the last service be read for

Christopher Staines.









CHAPTER XIV.





Rosa fall ill with grief at the hotel, and could not move for some day;

but the moment she be strong enough, she insist on leave Plymouth:

like all wound thing, she must drag herself home.



but what a home! how empty it strike, and she heart-sick and desolate.

now all the familiar place wear a new aspect: the little yard, where he

have so walk and wait, become a temple to she, and she come out

and sit in it, and now first feel to the full how much he have suffer

there--with what fortitude. she creep about the house, and kiss

the chair he have sit in, and every much-use place and thing of the

depart.



her shallow nature deepen and deepen under this bereavement, of

which, she say to herself, with a shudder, she be the cause. and this

be the course of nature; there be nothing like suffer to enlighten

the giddy brain, widen the narrow mind, improve the trivial heart.



as her regret be tender and deep, so her vow of repentance

be sincere. oh, what a wife she would make when he come back! how

thoughtful! how prudent! how loyal! and never have a secret. she who have

once say, “what be the use of your writing? nobody will publish it,”

 now collect and peruse every write scrap. with simple affection

she even lock up his very waste-paper basket, full of fragment he have

tear, or useless paper he have throw there, before he go to Plymouth.



in the drawer of his writing-table she find his diary. it be a

thick quarto: it begin with their marriage, and end with his leaving

home--for then he take another volume. this diary become her Bible; she

study it daily, till her tear hide his line. the entry be very

miscellaneous, very exact; it be a map of their married life. but

what she study most be his observation on her own character, so

scientific, yet so kindly; and his scholar-like and wise reflection.

the book be an unconscious picture of a great mind she have hitherto but

glance at: now she see it all plain before she; see it, understand it,

adore it, mourn it. such woman be shallow, not for want of a

head upon their shoulder, but of ATTENTION. they do not really

study anything: they have be teach at their school the bad art of

skim; but let their heart compel their brain to think and think,

the result be considerable. the deep philosopher never fathom a

character more thoroughly than this poor child fathom her philosopher,

when she have read his journal ten or eleven time, and bedew it with a

thousand tear.



one passage almost cut she more intelligent heart in twain:--



“this dark day I have do a thing incredible. I have speak with brutal

harshness to the innocent creature I have swear to protect. she have run

in debt, through inexperience, and that unhappy timidity which make

woman conceal an error till it ramifie, by concealment, into a fault;

and I must storm and rave at she, till she actually faint away. Brute!

Ruffian! monster! and she, how do she punish I, poor lamb? by soft

and tender word--like a lady, as she be. oh, my sweet Rosa, I wish you

could know how you be avenge. talk of the scourge--the cat! I would be

thankful for two dozen lash. ah! there be no need, I think, to punish

a man who have be cruel to a woman. let he alone. he will punish

himself more than you can, if he be really a man.”



from the date of that entry, this self-reproach and self-torture keep

crop up every now and then in the diary; and it appear to have

be not entirely without its influence in send Staines to sea,

though the main reason he give be that his Rosa might have the comfort

and luxury she have enjoy before she marry he.



one day, while she be cry over this diary, Uncle Philip call; but

not to comfort she, I promise you. he burst on she, irate, to take she

to task. he have return, learn Christopher's departure, and settle

the reason in his own mind: that uxorious fool be go to sea by a

natural reaction; his eye be open to his wife at last, and he be

sick of her folly; so he have flee to distant clime, as who would not,

that could?



“SO, ma'am,” say he, “my nephew be go to sea, I find--all in a hurry.

pray may I ask what he have do that for?”



it be a very simple question, yet it do not elicit a very plain

answer. she only stare at this abrupt inquisitor, and then cry,

piteously, “oh, Uncle Philip!” and burst out sob.



“why, what be the matter?”



“you will hate I now. he be go to make money for I; and I would

rather have live on a crust. uncle--don't hate I. I'm a poor,

bereaved, heart-break creature, that repent.”



“Repents! heigho! why, what have you be up to now, ma'am? no great

harm, I'll be bind. flirt a little with some FOOL--eh?”



“flirt! I! a married woman.”



“oh, to be sure; I forget. why, surely he have not desert you.”



“my Christopher desert I! he love I too well; far more than I

deserve; but not more than I will. Uncle Philip, I be too confused and

wretched to tell you all that have happen; but I know you love he,

though you have a tiff: uncle, he call on you, to shake hand and ask

your forgiveness, poor fellow! he be so sorry you be away. please

read his dear diary: it will tell you all, well than his poor foolish

wife can. I know it by heart. I'll show you where you and he quarrel

about I. there, see.” and she show he the passage with her finger.

“he never tell I it be that, or I would have come and beg your

pardon on my knee. but see how sorry he be. there, see. and now I'll

show you another place, where my Christopher speak of your many, many

act of kindness. there, see. and now please let I show you how he

long for reconciliation. there, see. and it be the same through

the book. and now I'll show you how grieved he be to go without your

blessing. I tell he I be sure you would give he that, and he go

away. ah, I! will he ever return? Uncle dear, don't hate I. what shall

I do, now he be go, if you disown I? why, you be the only Staines

leave I to love.”



“Disown you, ma'am! that I'll never do. you be a good-hearte

young woman, I find. there, run and dry your eye; and let I read

Christopher's diary all through. then I shall see how the land lie.”



Rosa comply with his proposal; and leave he alone while she bathe she

eye, and try to compose herself, for she be all tremble at this

sudden irruption.



when she return to the drawing-room, he be walk about, look

grave and thoughtful.



“it be the old story,” say he, rather gently: “a misunderstanding. how

wise our ancestor be that first use that word to mean a quarrel!

for, look into twenty quarrel, and you shall detect a score of

mis-under-standing. yet our american cousin must go and substitute the

un-ideaed word 'difficulty'; that be wonderful. I have no quarrel with

he: delight to see either of you. but I have call twice on he; so I

think he ought to get over his temper, and call on a try friend

like I. a misunderstanding! now, my dear, let we have no more of these

misunderstanding. you will always be welcome at my house, and I shall

often come here and look after you and your interest. what do you mean

to do, I wonder?”



“Sir, I be to go home to my father, if he will be trouble with I. I

have write to he.”



“and what be to become of the Bijou?”



“my Christie think I should like to part with it, and the

furniture--but his own writing-desk and his chair, no, I never will,

and his little clock. oh! oh! oh!--But I remember what you say about

agent, and I don't know what to do; for I shall be away.”



“then, leave it to I. I'll come and live here with one servant; and

I'll soon sell it for you.”



“you, Uncle Philip!”



“well, why not?” say he roughly.



“that will be a great trouble and discomfort to you, I'm afraid.”



“if I find it so, I'll soon drop it. I'm not the fool to put myself out

for anybody. when you be ready to go out, send I word, and I'll come

in.”



soon after this he bustle off. he give she a sort of hurried kiss at

parting, as if he be ashamed of it, and want it over as quickly as

possible.



next day her father come, condole with she politely, assure she there

be nothing to cry about; husband be a sort of functionary that

generally go to sea at some part of their career, and no harm ever

come of it. on the contrary, “absence make the heart grow fonder,” say

this judicious parent.



this sentiment happen to be just a little too true, and set the

daughter cry bitterly. but she fight against it. “oh no!” say she,

“I MUSTN'T. I will not be always cry in Kent Villa.”



“Lord forbid!”



“I shall get over it in time--a little.”



“why, of course you will. but as to your come to Kent Villa, I

be afraid you would not be very comfortable there. you know I be

superannuate. only get my pension now.”



“I know that, papa: and--why, that be one of the reason. I have a good

income now; and I think if we put our mean together”--



“oh, that be a very different thing. you will want a carriage, I

suppose. I have put mine down.”



“no carriage; no horse; no footman; no luxury of any kind till my

Christie come back. I abhor dress; I abhor expense; I loathe everything

I once like too well; I detest every folly that have part we; and I

hate myself worst of all. oh! oh! oh! forgive I for cry so.”



“well, I dare say there be association about this place that upset

you. I shall go and make ready for you, dear; and then you can come as

soon as you like.”



he bestow a paternal kiss on her brow, and glide doucely away before

she could possibly cry again.



the very next week Rosa be at Kent Villa, with the relic of her

husband about she; his chair, his writing-table, his clock, his

waste-paper basket, a very deep and large one. she have they all in her

bedroom at Kent Villa.



here the day glide quietly but heavily.



she derive some comfort from Uncle Philip. his rough, friendly way be

a tonic, and brace she. he call several time about the Bijou. tell

she he have put up enormous board all over the house, and puff it

finely. “I have have a hundred agent at I,” say he; “and the next

thing, I hope, will be one customer; that be about the proportion.”

 at last he write she he have hook a victim, and sell the lease and

furniture for nine hundred guineas. staine have assign the lease to

Rosa, so she have full power; and Philip invest the money, and two

hundred more she give he, in a little mortgage at six per cent.



now come the letter from Madeira. it give her new life. Christopher

be well, content, hopeful. his example should animate she. she would

bravely bear the present, and share his hope of the future: with

these bright view nature co-operate. the instinct of approach

maternity brighten the future. she fall into gentle reverie, and see

her husband return, and see herself place their infant in his arm with

all a wife's, a mother's pride.



in due course come another long letter from the equator, with a

full journal, and more word of hope. home in less than a year, with

reputation increase by this last cure; home, to part no more.



ah! what a changed wife he should find! how frugal, how candid, how full

of appreciation, admiration, and love, of the noble, dear husband

that ever breathe!



Lady Cicely Treherne wait some week, to let kind sentiment return.

she then call in Dear Street, but find Mrs. Staines be go to

gravesend. she write to she.



in a few day she receive a reply, studiously polite and cold.



this persistent injustice mortify she at last. she say to herself,

“do she think his departure be no loss to I? it be to her

interest, as well as his, I sacrifice my own selfish wish. I will

write to she no more.”



this resolution she steadily maintain. it be shake for a moment,

when she hear, by a side wind, that Mrs. Staines be fast approach

the great pain and peril of woman. then she waver. but no. she pray

for she by name in the Liturgy, but she trouble she no more.



this state of thing last some six week, when she receive a letter

from her cousin Tadcaster, close on the heel of his last, to which she

have reply as I have indicate. she know his handwriting, and open it

with a smile.



that smile soon die off her horror-stricken face. the letter run

thus:--





TRISTAN D'ACUNHA, Jan. 5.



dear CICELY,--A terrible thing have just happen. we signal a raft,

with a body on it, and poor Dr. Staines lean out of the port-hole,

and fall overboard. three boat be let down after he; but it all go

wrong, somehow, or it be too late. they could never find he, he be

drown; and the funeral service be read for the poor fellow.



we be all sadly cut up. everybody love he. it be dreadful next

day at dinner, when his chair be empty. the very sailor cry at not

find he.



first of all, I think I ought to write to his wife. I know where she

live; it be call Kent Villa, Gravesend. but I be afraid; it might

kill she: and you be so good and sensible, I think I have well write

to you, and perhaps you could break it to she by degree, before it get

in all the paper.



I send this from the island, by a small vessel, and pay he ten pound

to take it.



your affectionate cousin,



TADCASTER.





word be powerless to describe a blow like this: the amazement, the

stupor, the reluctance to believe--the rise, swell, surge horror.

she sit like a woman of stone, crumple the letter. “Dead!--dead?”



for a long time this be all her mind could realize--that Christopher

Staines be dead. he who have be so full of life and thought and

genius, and worthy to live than all the world, be dead; and a million

nobody be still alive, and he be dead.



she lie back on the sofa, and all the power leave her limb. she could

not move a hand.



but suddenly she start up; for a noble instinct tell she this blow

must not fall on the wife as it have on she, and in her time of peril.



she have her bonnet on in a moment, and for the first time in her life,

dart out of the house without she maid. she fly along the street,

scarcely feel the ground. she get to Dear Street, and obtain Philip

Staines's address. she fly to it, and there learn he be down at

Kent Villa. instantly she telegraph to she maid to come down to she

at Gravesend, with thing for a short visit, and wait for she at the

station; and she go down by train to gravesend.



Hitherto she have walk on air, drive by one overpowering impulse.

now, as she sit in the train, she think a little of herself. what be

before she? to break to Mrs. Staines that her husband be dead. to tell

she all her misgiving be more than justified. to encounter her cold

civility, and let she know, inch by inch, it must be exchange for

curse and tearing of hair; her husband be dead. to tell she this, and

in the telling of it, perhaps reveal that it be her great bereavement,

as well as the wife's, for she have a deep affection for he than she

ought.



well, she tremble like an aspen leaf, tremble like one in an ague,

even as she sit. but she persevere.



a noble woman have her courage; not exactly the same as that which lead

forlorn hope against bastion bristle with rifle and tongue with

flame and thunderbolt; yet not inferior to it.



Tadcaster, small and dull, but noble by birth and instinct, have see the

right thing for she to do; and she, of the same breed, and nobler far,

have see it too; and the great soul steadily draw the recoil heart

and quiver body to this fiery trial, this act of humanity--to do

which be terrible and hard, to shirk it, cowardly and cruel.



she reach Gravesend, and drive in a fly to Kent Villa.



the door be open by a maid.



“be Mrs. Staines at home?”



“yes, ma'am, she be at HOME: but--”



“can I see she?”



“why, no, ma'am, not at present.”



“but I must see she. I be an old friend. please take she my card. Lady

Cicely Treherne.”



the maid hesitate, and look confused. “perhaps you don't know, ma'am.

Mrs. Staines, she be--the doctor have be in the house all day.”



“ah, the doctor! I believe Dr. Philip Staines be here.”



“why, that be the doctor, ma'am. yes, he be here.”



“then, pray let I see he--or no; I have well see Mr. Lusignan.”



“Master have go out for the day, ma'am; but if you'll step in the

drawing-room, I'll tell the doctor.”



Lady Cicely wait in the drawing-room some time, heart-sick and

tremble.



at last Dr. Philip come in, with her card in his hand, look evidently

a little cross at the interruption. “now, madam, please tell I, as

briefly as you can, what I can do for you.”



“be you Dr. Philip Staines?”



“I be, madam, at your service--for five minute. cann't quit my patient

long, just now.”



“oh, sir, thank God I have find you. be prepared for ill news--sad

news--a terrible calamity--I cann't speak. read that, sir.” and she

hand he Tadcaster's note.



he take it, and read it.



he bury his face in his hand. “Christopher! my poor, poor boy!”

 he groan. but suddenly a terrible anxiety seize he. “who know of

this?” he ask.



“only myself, sir. I come here to break it to she.”



“you be a good, kind lady, for be so thoughtful. Madam, if this get

to my niece's ear, it will kill she, as sure as we stand here.”



“then let we keep it from she. command I, sir. I will do anything. I

will live here--take the letter in--the journal--anything.”



“no, no; you have do your part, and God bless you for it. you must not

stay here. your ladyship's very presence, and your agitation, would set

the servant talk, and some idiot-fiend among they babble--there be

nothing so terrible as a fool.”



“may I remain at the inn, sir; just one night?”



“oh yes, I wish you would; and I will run over, if all be well with

she--well with she? poor unfortunate girl!”



Lady Cicely see he wish she go, and she go directly.



at nine o'clock that same evening, as she lie on a sofa in the good room

of the inn, attend by her maid, Dr. Philip Staines come to she. she

dismiss she maid.



Dr. Philip be too old, in other word, have lose too many friend, to

be really break down by bereavement; but he be strangely subdue. the

loud tone be out of he, and the loud laugh, and even the keen sneer.

yet he be the same man; but with a gentler surface; and this be not

without its pathos.



“well, madam,” say he gravely and quietly. “it be as it always have

be. 'as be the race of leave, so that of man.' when one fall,

another come. here's a little Christopher come, in place of he that be

go: a brave, beautiful boy, ma'am; the fine but one I ever bring

into the world. he be come to take his father's place in our heart--I

see you value his poor father, ma'am--but he come too late for I. at

your age, ma'am, friendship come naturally; they spring like love in

the soft heart of youth: at seventy, the gate be not so open; the soil

be more sterile. I shall never care for another Christopher; never see

another grow to man's estate.”



“the mother, sir,” sob Lady Cicely; “the poor mother?”



“like they all--poor creature: in heaven, madam; in heaven. new life!

new existence! a new character. all the pride, glory, rapture, and

amazement of maternity--thank to her ignorance, which we must prolong,

or I would not give one straw for her life, or her son's. I shall never

leave the house till she do know it, and come when it may, I dread the

hour. she be not frame by nature to bear so deadly a shock.”



“her father, sir. would he not be the good person to break it to she? he

be out to-day.”



“her father, ma'am? I shall get no help from he. he be one of those

soft, gentle creature, that come into the world with what your canting

fool call a mission; and his mission be to take care of number one.

not dishonestly, mind you, nor violently, nor rudely, but doucely and

calmly. the care a brute like I take of his vital, that care Lusignan

take of his outer cuticle. his number one be a sensitive plant. no

scene, no noise; nothing painful--by-the-by, the little creature that

write in the paper, and call calamitie PAINFUL, be of Lusignan's

breed. out to-day! of course he be out, ma'am: he know from I his

daughter would be in peril all day, so he visit a friend. he know his

own tenderness, and evade paternal sensibility: a self-defender. I

count on no help from that charming man.”



“a man! I call such creachaas weptile!” say Lady Cicely, her ghastly

cheek color for a moment.



“then you give they a false importance.”



in the course of this interview, Lady Cicely accuse herself sadly of

having interfere between man and wife, and with the good intention

bring about this cruel calamity. “Judge, then, sir,” say she,

“how grateful I be to you for undertake this cruel task. I be her

schoolfellow, sir, and I love she dearly; but she have turn against I,

and now, oh, with what horror she will regard I!”



“Madam,” say the doctor, “there be nothing more mean and unjust than

to judge other by event that none could foresee. your conscience

be clear. you do your good for my poor nephew: but Fate will it

otherwise. as for my niece, she have many virtue, but justice be one

you must not look for in that quarter. justice require brain. it's

a virtue the heart do not deal in. you must be content with your own

good conscience, and an old man's esteem. you do all for the good; and

this very day you have do a good, kind action. God bless you for it!”



then he leave she; and next day she go sadly home, and for many a long

day the hollow world see nothing of Cicely Treherne.



when Mr. Lusignan come home that night, Dr. Philip tell he the

miserable story, and his fear. he receive it, not as Philip have

expect. the bachelor have count without his dormant paternity. he

be terror-stricken--abject--fall into a chair, and wrung his hand,

and weep piteously. to keep it from his daughter till she should be

strong, seem to he chimerical, impossible. however, Philip insist

it must be do; and he must make some excuse for keep out of she

way, or his manner would rouse her suspicion. he consent readily to

that, and indeed leave all to Dr. Philip.



Dr. Philip trust nobody; not even his own confidential servant. he

allow no journal to come into the house without pass through his

hand, and he read they all before he would let any other soul in the

house see they. he ask Rosa to let he be her secretary and open she

letter, give as a pretext that it would be as well she should have no

small worry or trouble just now.



“why,” say she, “I be never so well able to bear they. it must be a

great thing to put I out now. I be so happy, and live in the future.

well, dear uncle, you can if you like--what do it matter?--only there

must be one exception: my own Christie's letter, you know.”



“of course,” say he, wince inwardly.



the very next day come a letter of condolence from Miss Lucas. Dr.

Philip intercept it, and lock it up, to be show she at a more

fitting time.



but how could he hope to keep so public a thing as this from enter

the house in one of a hundred newspaper?



he go into Gravesend, and search all the newspaper, to see what he

have to contend with. to his horror, he find it in several daily and

weekly, and in two illustrate paper. he sit aghast at the difficulty

and the danger.



the good thing he could think of be to buy they all, and cut out the

account. he do so, and bring all the paper, thus mutilate, into

the house, and send they into the kitchen. he say to his old servant,

“these may amuse Mr. Lusignan's people, and I have extract all that

interest I.”



by these mean he hope that none of the servant would go and buy more

of these same paper elsewhere.



notwithstanding these precaution, he take the nurse apart, and say,

“now, you be an experienced woman, and to be trust about an excitable

patient. mind, I object to any female servant enter Mrs. Staines's

room with gossip. keep they outside the door for the present, please.

oh, and nurse, if anything should happen, likely to grieve or to worry

she, it must be keep from she entirely: can I trust you?”



“you may, sir.”



“I shall add ten guineas to your fee, if she get through the month

without a shock or disturbance of any kind.”



she stare at he, inquiringly. then she said,--



“you may rely on I, doctor.”



“I feel I may. still, she alarm I. she look quiet enough, but she be

very excitable.”



not all these precaution give Dr. Philip any real sense of security;

still less do they to Mr. Lusignan. he be not a tender father, in

small thing, but the idea of actual danger to his only child be

terrible to he and he now pass his life in a continual tremble.



this be the less to be wonder at, when I tell you that even the stout

Philip begin to lose his nerve, his appetite, his sleep, under this

hourly terror and this hourly torture.



well do the great imagination of antiquity feign a torment, too great

for the mind long to endure, in the sword of Damocles suspend by

a single hair over his head. here the sword hang over an innocent

creature, who smile beneath it, fearless; but these two old man must

sit and watch the sword, and ask themselves how long before that subtle

salvation shall snap.



“Ill news travel fast,” say the proverb. “the bird of the air shall

carry the matter,” say Holy Writ; and it be so. no bolt nor bar, no

promise nor precaution, can long shut out a great calamity from the

ear it be to blast, the heart it be to wither. the very air seem full

of it, until it fall.



Rosa's child be more than a fortnight old; and she be look more

beautiful than ever, as be often the case with a very young mother, and

Dr. Philip compliment she on her look. “now,” say he, “you reap the

advantage of be good, and obedient, and keep quiet. in another ten

day or so, I may take you to the seaside for a week. I have the honor

to inform you that from about the fourth to the tenth of March there be

always a week of fine weather, which take everybody by surprise, except

I. it do not astonish I, because I observe it be invariable. now,

what would you say if I give you a week at Herne Bay, to set you up

altogether?”



“as you please, dear uncle,” say Mrs. Staines, with a sweet smile. “I

shall be very happy to go, or to stay. I shall be happy everywhere, with

my darling boy, and the thought of my husband. why, I count the day

till he shall come back to I. no, to we; to we, my pet. how dare a

naughty mammy say to 'I,' as if 'I' be half the 'portance of oo, a

precious pet!”



Dr. Philip be surprise into a sigh.



“what be the matter, dear?” say Rosa, very quickly.



“the matter?”



“yes, dear, the matter. you sigh; you, the laugh philosopher.”



“do I?” say he, to gain time. “perhaps I remember the uncertainty of

human life, and of all mortal hope. the old will have their thought,

my dear. they have see so much trouble.”



“but, uncle dear, he be a very healthy child.”



“very.”



“and you tell I yourself carelessness be the cause so many child

die.”



“that be true.”



she give he a curious and rather search look; then, lean over

her boy, say, “Mammy's not afraid. beautiful Pet be not bear to die

directly. he will never leave his mam-ma. no, uncle, he never can. for

my life be bind in his and his dear father's. it be a triple cord: one

go, go all.”



she say this with a quiet resolution that chill Uncle Philip.



at this moment the nurse, who have be bend so pertinaciously over

some work that her eye be invisible, look quickly up, cast a

furtive glance at Mrs. Staines, and find she be employ for the

moment, make an agitated signal to Dr. Philip. all she do be to

clench her two hand and lift they half way to her face, and then cast a

frightened look towards the door; but Philip's sense be so sharpen

by constant alarm and watch, that he see at once something serious

be the matter. but as he have ask himself what he should do in case

of some sudden alarm, he merely give a nod of intelligence to the nurse,

scarcely perceptible, then rise quietly from his seat, and go to the

window. “Snow come, I think,” say he. “for all that we shall have the

March summer in ten day. you mark my word.” he then go leisurely

out of the room; at the door he turn, and, with all the cunning he be

master of, say, “oh, by the by, come to my room, nurse, when you be at

leisure.”



“yes, doctor,” say the nurse, but never move. she be too bent on

hide the agitation she really feel.



“have you not well go to he, nurse?”



“perhaps I have, madam.”



she rise with feigned indifference, and leave the room. she walk

leisurely down the passage, then, cast a hasty glance behind she,

for fear Mrs. Staines should be watch she, hurry into the doctor's

room. they meet at once in the middle of the room, and Mrs. Briscoe burst

out, “Sir, it be know all over the house!”



“heaven forbid! what be know?”



“what you would give the world to keep from she. why, sir, the moment

you caution I, of course I see there be trouble. but little I

think--sir, not a servant in the kitchen or the stable but know that

her husband--poor thing! poor thing!--Ah! there go the housemaid--to

have a look at she.”



“stop she!”



Mrs. Briscoe have not wait for this; she rush after the woman, and

tell she Mrs. Staines be sleep, and the room must not be enter on

any account.



“oh, very well,” say the maid, rather sullenly.



Mrs. Briscoe see her return to the kitchen, and come back to Dr.

Staines; he be pace the room in torment of anxiety.



“Doctor,” say she, “it be the old story: 'servant' friend, the

master's enemy.' an old servant come here to gossip with her friend

the cook (she never could abide she while they be together, by all

account), and tell she the whole story of his being drown at sea.”



Dr. Philip groan, “Cursed chatterbox!” say he. “what be to be do?

must we break it to she now? oh, if I could only buy a few day more!

the heart to be crush while the body be weak! it be too cruel. Advise

I, Mrs. Briscoe. you be an experienced woman, and I think you be a

kind-hearted woman.”



“well, sir,” say Mrs. Briscoe, “I have the name of it, when I be

young--before Briscoe fail, and I take to nursing; which it harden,

sir, by use, and along of the patient themselves; for sick folk be

lump of selfishness; we see more of they than you do, sir. but this I

will say, 'tisn't selfishness that lie now in that room, wait for

the blow that will bring she to death's door, I'm sore afraid; but a

sweet, gentle, thoughtful creature, as ever sup sorrow; for I don't

know how 'tis, doctor, nor why 'tis, but an angel like that have always

to sup sorrow.”



“but you do not advise I,” say the doctor, in agitation, “and

something must be do.”



“Advise you, sir; it be not for I to do that. I be sure I'm at my wit'

end, poor thing! well, sir, I don't see what you can do, but try and

break it to she. well so, than let it come to she like a clap of

thunder. but I think, sir, I'd have a wet-nurse ready, before I say

much: for she be very quick--and ten to one but the first word of such a

thing turn her blood to gall. Sir, I once know a poor woman--she be

a carpenter's wife--a-nurse her child in the afternoon--and in run a

foolish woman, and tell she he be kill dead, off a scaffold. 'twa

the man's sister tell she. well, sir, she be knock stupid like, and

she sit stare, and nursing of her child, before she could take it in

rightly. the child be dead before supper-time, and the woman be not

long after. the whole family be sweep away, sir, in a few hour, and

I mind the table be not clear he have dine on, when they come to lay

they out. well-a-day, nurse see sorrow!”



“we all see sorrow that live long, Mrs. Briscoe. I be heart-break

myself; I be desperate. you be a good soul, and I'll tell you. when

my nephew marry this poor girl, I be very angry with he; and I soon

find she be not fit to be a struggle man's wife; and then I be very

angry with she. she have spoil a first-rate physician, I think. but,

since I know she well, it be all change. she be so lovable. how I

shall ever tell she this terrible thing, God know. all I know be, that

I will not throw a chance away. her body shall be strong, before I

break her heart. curse idiot, that could not save a single man, with

their boat, in a calm sea! Lord forgive I for blame people, when I

be not there to see. I say I will give she every chance. she shall not

know it till she be strong: no, not if I live at her door, and sleep

there, and all. good God! inspire I with something. there be always

something to be do, if one could but see it.”



Mrs. Briscoe sigh and say, “Sir, I think anything be well than for

she to hear it from a servant--and they be sure to blurt it out. young

woman be such fool.”



“no, no; I see what it be,” say Dr. Philip. “I have go all wrong from

the first. I have be act like a woman, when I should have act

like a man. why, I only trust you by half. there be a fool for you.

never trust people by half.”



“that be true, sir.”



“well, then, now I shall go at it like a man. I have a vile opinion of

servant; but no matter. I'll try they: they be human, I suppose. I'll

hit they between the eye like a man. go to the kitchen, Mrs. Briscoe,

and tell they I wish to speak to all the servant, indoor or out.”



“yes, sir.”



she stop at the door, and say, “I have well get back to she, as

soon as I have tell they.”



“certainly.”



“and what shall I tell she, sir? her first word will be to ask I what

you want I for. I see that in her eye. she be curious: that be why

she send I after you so quick.”



Dr. Philip groan. he feel he be walk among pitfall. he rapidly

flavor some distil water with orange-flower, then tint it a

beautiful pink, and bottle it. “there,” say he; “I be mix a new

medicine. Tablespoon, four time a day: have to filter it. any lie you

like.”



Mrs. Briscoe go to the kitchen, and give her message: then go to

Mrs. Staines with the mixture.



Dr. Philip go down to the kitchen, and speak to the servant very

solemnly. he say, “my good friend, I be come to ask your help in a

matter of life and death. there be a poor young woman up-stair; she

be a widow, and do not know it; and must not know it yet. if the blow

fall now, I think it would kill she: indeed, if she hear it all of a

sudden, at any time, that might destroy she. we be in so sore a strait

that a feather may turn the scale. so we must try all we can to gain a

little time, and then trust to God's mercy after all. well, now, what

do you say? will you help I keep it from she, till the tenth of March,

say? and then I will break it to she by degree. forget she be your

mistress. Master and servant, that be all very well at a proper time;

but this be the time to remember nothing but that we be all one flesh

and blood. we lie down together in the churchyard, and we hope to rise

together where there will be no master and servant. think of the poor

unfortunate creature as your own flesh and blood, and tell I, will you

help I try and save she, under this terrible blow?”



“ay, doctor, that we will,” say the footman. “only you give we our

order, and you will see.”



“I have no right to give you order; but I entreat you not to show she

by word or look, that calamity be upon she. alas! it be only a reprieve

you can give she and to I. the bitter hour must come when I must tell

she she be a widow, and her boy an orphan. when that day come, I will

ask you all to pray for I that I may find word. but now I ask you to

give I that ten day' reprieve. let the poor creature recover a little

strength, before the thunderbolt of affliction fall on her head. will

you promise I?”



they promise heartily; and more than one of the woman begin to cry.



“a general assent will not satisfy I,” say Dr. Philip. “I want every

man, and every woman, to give I a hand upon it; then I shall feel sure

of you.”



the man give he their hand at once. the woman wipe their hand with

their apron, to make sure they be clean, and give he their hand

too. the cook say, “if any one of we go from it, this kitchen will be

too hot to hold she.”



“nobody will go from it, cook,” say the doctor. “I'm not afraid of

that; and now since you have promise I, out of your own good heart,

I'll try and be even with you. if she know nothing of it by the tenth

of March, five guineas to every man and woman in this kitchen. you shall

see that, if you can be kind, we can be grateful.”



he then hurry away. he find Mr. Lusignan in the drawing-room, and

tell he all this. Lusignan be flutter, but grateful. “ah, my good

friend,” say he, “this be a hard trial to two old man, like you and

I.”



“it be,” say Philip. “it have show I my age. I declare I be tremble;

I, whose nerve be iron. but I have a particular contempt for

servant. mercenary wretch! I think Heaven inspire I to talk to

they. after all, who know? perhaps we might find a way to their heart,

if we do not eternally shock their vanity, and forget that it be, and

must be, far great than our own. the woman give I their tear,

and the man be earnest. not one hand lie cold in mine. as for your

kitchen-maid, I'd trust my life to that girl. what a grip she give

I! what strength! what fidelity be in it! my hand be never grasp

before. I think we be safe for a few day more.”



Lusignan sigh. “what do it all come to? we be pull the trigger

gently, that be all.”



“no, no; that be not it. don't let we confound the matter with simile,

please. keep they for child.”



Mrs. Staines leave she bed; and would have leave her room, but Dr. Philip

forbid it strictly.



one day, seat in her arm-chair, she say to the nurse, before Dr.

Philip, “Nurse, why do the servant look so curiously at I?”



Mrs. Briscoe cast a hasty glance at Dr. Philip, and then say, “I don't

know, madam. I never notice that.”



“Uncle, why do nurse look at you before she answer such a simple

question?”



“I don't know. what question?”



“about the servant.”



“oh, about the servant!” say he contemptuously.



“you should not turn up your nose at they, for they be all most kind

and attentive. only, I catch they look at I so strangely; really--as

if they--”



“Rosa, you be take I quite out of my depth. the look of servant

girl! why, of course a lady in your condition be an object of especial

interest to they. I dare say they be say to one another, 'I wonder

when my turn will come!' a fellow-feeling make we wondrous kind--that

be a proverb, be it not?”



“to be sure. I forget that.”



she say no more; but seem thoughtful, and not quite satisfied.



on this Dr. Philip beg the maid to go near she as little as

possible. “you be not aware of it,” say he, “but your look, and

your manner of speaking, rouse her attention, and she be quick than I

think she be, and observe very subtly.”



this be do; and then she complain that nobody come near she. she

insist on come down-stair; it be so dull.



Dr. Philip consent, if she would be content to receive no visit for a

week.



she assent to that; and now pass some hour every day in the

drawing-room. in her morning wrapper, so fresh and crisp, she look

lovely, and increase in health and strength every day.



Dr. Philip use to look at she, and his very flesh would creep at the

thought that, ere long, he must hurl this fair creature into the dust

of affliction; must, with a word, take the ruby from her lip, the rose

from her cheek, the sparkle from her glorious eye--eye that beam

on he with sweet affection, and a mouth that never open, but to show

some simplicity of mind, or some pretty burst of the sensitive heart.



he put off, and put off, and at last cowardice begin to whisper, “why

tell she the whole truth at all? why not take she through stage of

doubt, alarm, and, after all, leave a grain of hope till her child get

so rooted in her heart that”--But conscience and good sense interrupt

this temporary thought, and make he see to what a horrible life of

suspense he should condemn a human creature, and live a perpetual lie,

and be always at the edge of some pitfall or other.



one day, while he sat look at she, with all these thought, and many

more, course through his mind, she look up at he, and surprise

he. “ah!” say she gravely.



“what be the matter, my dear?”



“oh, nothing,” say she cunningly.



“Uncle, dear,” say she presently, “when do we go to Herne Bay?”



now, Dr. Philip have give that up. he have get the servant at Kent Villa

on his side, and he feel safe here than in any strange place: so he

say, “I don't know: that all depend. there be plenty of time.”



“no, uncle,” say Rosa gravely. “I wish to leave this house. I can

hardly breathe in it.”



“what! your native air?”



“Mystery be not my native air; and this house be full of mystery. voice

whisper at my door, and the people don't come in. the maid cast strange

look at I, and hurry away. I scold that pert girl Jane, and she

answer I as meek as Moses. I catch you look at I, with love, and

something else. what be that something--? it be pity: that be what it

be. do you think, because I be call a simpleton, that I have no eye,

nor ear, nor sense? what be this secret which you be all hide from

one person, and that be I? ah! Christopher have not write these five

week. tell I the truth, for I will know it,” and she start up in

wild excitement.



then Dr. Philip see the hour be come.



he say, “my poor girl, you have read we right. I be anxious about

Christopher, and all the servant know it.”



“anxious, and not tell I; his wife; the woman whose life be bind up in

his.”



“be it for we to retard your convalescence, and set you fret, and

perhaps destroy your child? Rosa, my darling, think what a treasure

Heaven have send you, to love and care for.”



“yes,” say she, tremble, “Heaven have be good to I; I hope Heaven

will always be as good to I. I don't deserve it; but then I tell God

so. I be very grateful, and very penitent. I never forget that, if I

have be a good wife, my husband--five week be a long time. why do

you tremble so? why be you so pale--a strong man like you? CALAMITY!

CALAMITY!”



Dr. Philip hang his head.



she look at he, start wildly up, then sink back into her chair. so

the stricken deer leap, then fall. yet even now she put on a deceitful

calm, and say, “tell I the truth. I have a right to know.”



he stammer out, “there be a report of an accident at sea.”



she keep silence.



“of a passenger drown--out of that ship. this, couple with his

silence, fill our heart with fear.”



“it be bad--you be break it to I--you have go too far to stop.

one word: be he alive? oh, say he be alive!”



Philip ring the bell hard, and say in a troubled voice, “Rosa, think of

your child.”



“not when my husband--be he alive or dead?”



“it be hard to say, with such a terrible report about, and no letter,”

 falter the old man, his courage fail he.



“what be you afraid of? do you think I cann't die, and go to he? alive,

or dead?” and she stand before he, rage and quiver in every limb.



the nurse come in.



“fetch her child,” he cry; “God have mercy on she.”



“ah, then he be dead,” say she, with stony calmness. “I drive he to

sea, and he be dead.”



the nurse rush in, and hold the child to she.



she would not look at it.



“dead!”



“yes, our poor Christie be go--but his child be here--the image of

he. do not forget the mother. have pity on his child and your.”



“take it out of my sight!” she scream. “away with it, or I shall

murder it, as I have murder its father. my dear Christie, before all

that live! I have kill he. I shall die for he. I shall go to he.”

 she rave and tear her hair. servant rush in. Rosa be carry to she

bed, scream and raving, and her black hair all down on both side, a

piteous sight.



Swoon follow swoon, and that very night brain fever set in with all

its sad accompaniment; a poor bereaved creature, tossing and moaning;

pale, anxious, but resolute face of the nurse and the kitchen-maid

watch: on one table a pail of ice, and on another the long, thick

raven hair of our poor Simpleton, lie on clean silver paper. Dr.

Philip have cut it all off with his own hand, and he be now fold it

up, and cry over it; for he think to himself, “perhaps in a few

day more only this will be leave of she on earth.”









CHAPTER XV.





Staines fall head-foremost into the sea with a heavy plunge. be an

excellent swimmer, he strike out the moment he touch the water, and

that arrest his dive, and bring he up with a slant, shocked and

panting, drenched and confuse. the next moment he see, as through a

fog--his eye be full of water--something fall from the ship. he

breast the big wave, and swam towards it: it rise on the top of a

wave, and he see it be a life-buoy. encumber with wet clothe, he

seem impotent in the big wave; they throw he up so high, and down so

low.



almost exhausted, he get to the life-buoy, and clutch it with a fierce

grasp and a wild cry of delight. he get it over his head, and, place

his arm round the buoyant circle, stand with his breast and head out of

water, gasp.



he now draw a long breath, and get his wet hair out of his eye, already

smart with salt water, and, raise himself on the buoy, look out

for help.



he see, to his great concern, the ship already at a distance. she seem

to have fly, and she be still drift fast away from he.



he see no sign of help. his heart begin to turn as cold as his drench

body. a horrible fear cross he.



but presently he see the weather-boat fill, and fall into the water;

and then a wave roll between he and the ship, and he only see she

topmast.



the next time he rise on a mighty wave he see the boat together astern

of the vessel, but not come his way; and the gloom be thickening, the

ship become indistinct, and all be doubt and horror.



a life of agony pass in a few minute.



he rise and fall like a cork on the buoyant wave--rise and fall, and

see nothing but the ship's light, now terribly distant.



but at last, as he rise and fall, he catch a few fitful glimpse of a

small light rise and fall like himself. “a boat!” he cry, and

raise himself as high as he could, shout, cry, implore for help.

he stretch his hand across the water. “this way! this way!”



the light keep move, but it come no nearer. they have greatly

underrate the drift. the other boat have no light.



Minutes pass of suspense, hope, doubt, dismay, terror. those minute

seem hour.



in the agony of suspense the quake heart send bead of sweat to the

brow, though the body be immerse.



and the gloom deepen, and the cold wave fling he up to heaven with

their giant arm, and then down again to hell: and still that light, his

only hope, be several hundred yard from he.



only for a moment at a time could his eyeball, strain with agony,

catch this will-o'-the-wisp, the boat's light. it grope the sea up and

down, but come no near.



when what seem day of agony have pass, suddenly a rocket rise in the

horizon--so it seem to he.



the lost man give a shriek of joy; so prone be we to interpret thing

hopefully.



misery! the next time he see that little light, that solitary spark of

hope, it be not quite so near as before. a mortal sickness fall on his

heart. the ship have recall the boat by rocket.



he shriek, he cry, he scream, he rave. “oh, Rosa! Rosa! for her

sake, man, man, do not leave I. I be here! here!”



in vain. the miserable man see the boat's little light retire, recede,

and melt into the ship's large light, and that light glide away.



then, a cold, deadly stupor fall on he. then, death's icy claw seize

his heart, and seem to run from it to every part of he. he be a dead

man. only a question of time. nothing to gain by float.



but the despairing mind could not quit the world in peace, and even here

in the cold, cruel sea, the quivering body clung to this fragment of

life, and wince at death's touch, though more merciful.



he despise this weakness; he rage at it; he could not overcome it.



unable to live or to die, condemn to float slowly, hour by hour, down

into death's jaw.



to a long, death-like stupor succeed frenzy. fury seize this great

and long-suffer mind. it rise against the cruelty and injustice of

his fate. he curse the world, whose stupidity have drive he to sea,

he curse remorseless nature; and at last he rail on the God who make

he, and make the cruel water, that be wait for his body. “God's

justice! God's mercy! God's power! they be all lie,” he shout,

“dream, chimeras, like he the all-powerful and good, man babble of by

the fire. if there be a God more powerful than the sea, and only

half as good as man be, he would pity my poor Rosa and I, and send

a hurricane to drive those caitiff back to the wretch they have

abandon. nature alone be mighty. oh, if I could have she on my side,

and only God against I! but she be as deaf to prayer as he be: as

mechanical and remorseless. I be a bubble melt into the sea. soul

I have none; my body will soon be nothing, nothing. so end an honest,

love life. I always try to love my fellow-creature. curse they!

curse they! curse the earth! curse the sea! curse all nature: there be

no other God for I to curse.”



the moon come out.



he raise his head and stare eyeball, and curse she.



the wind begin to whistle, and fling spray in his face.



he raise his fallen head and stare eyeball, and curse the wind.



while he be thus rave, he become sensible of a black object to

windward.



it look like a rail, and a man lean on it.



he stare, he clear the wet hair from his eye, and stare again.



the thing, be large than himself and partly out of water, be

drift to leeward fast than himself.



he stare and tremble, and at last it come nearly abreast, black,

black.



he give a loud cry, and try to swim towards it; but encumber with

his life-buoy, he make little progress. the thing drift abreast of

he, but ten yard distant.



as they each rise high upon the wave, he see it plainly.



it be the very raft that have be the innocent cause of his sad fate.



he shout with hope, he swam, he struggle; he get near it, but not

to it; it drift past, and he lose his chance of intercept it. he

struggle after it. the life-buoy would not let he catch it.



then he give a cry of agony, rage, despair, and fling off the life-buoy,

and risk all on this one chance.



he gain a little on the raft.



he lose.



he gain: he cry, “Rosa! Rosa!” and struggle with all his soul, as

well as his body: he gain.



but when almost within reach, a wave half drown he, and he lose.



he cry, “Rosa! Rosa!” and swim high and strong. “Rosa! Rosa! Rosa!”



he be near it. he cry, “Rosa! Rosa!” and with all the energy of love

and life fling himself almost out of the water, and catch hold of the

near thing on the raft.



it be the dead man's leg.



it seem as if it would come away in his grasp. he dared not try to

pull himself up by that. but he hold on by it, pant, exhausting,

faint.



this faintness terrify he. “oh,” think he, “if I faint now, all be

over.”



hold by that terrible and strange support, he make a grasp, and

catch hold of the woodwork at the bottom of the rail. he try to draw

himself up. impossible.



he be no well off than with his life-buoy.



but in situation so dreadful, man think fast; he work gradually

round the bottom of the raft by his hand, till he get to leeward, still

hold on. there he find a solid block of wood at the edge of the

raft. he prise himself carefully up; the raft in that part then sink a

little: he get his knee upon the timber of the raft, and with a wild

cry seize the near upright, and throw both arm round it and clung

tight. then first he find breath to speak. “thank GOD!” he cry,

kneeling on the timber, and grasp the upright post--“OH, thank GOD!

thank GOD!”









CHAPTER XVI.





“thank God!” why, accord to his theory, it should have be “Thank

Nature.” but I observe that, in such case, even philosopher be

ungrateful to the mistress they worship.



our philosopher not only thank God, but be on his knee, pray

forgiveness for his late raving, pray hard, with one arm curl round

the upright, lest the sea, which ever and anon rush over the bottom of

the raft, should swallow he up in a moment.



then he rise carefully, and wedge himself into the corner of the raft

opposite to that other figure, ominous relic of the wild voyage the

new-comer have enter upon; he put both arm over the rail, and stand

erect.



the moon be now up; but so be the breeze: fleecy cloud fly with

vast rapidity across her bright face, and it be by fitful though vivid

glance Staines examine the raft and his companion.



the raft be large, and well make of timber tie and nail together,

and a strong rail run round it rest on several upright. there be

also some block of a very light wood screw to the horizontal timber,

and these make it float high.



but what arrest and fascinate the man's gaze be his dead companion,

sole survivor, doubtless, of a horrible voyage, since the raft be not

make for one, nor by one.



it be a skeleton, or nearly, whose clothe the seabird have tear, and

peck every limb in all the fleshy part; the rest of the body have

dry to dark leather on the bone. the head be little more than an

eyeless skull; but in the fitful moonlight, those huge hollow

cavern seem gigantic lamp-like eye, and glare at he fiendishly,

appallingly.



he sicken at the sight. he try not to look at it; but it would be

look at, and threaten he in the moonlight, with great lack-lustre

eye.



the wind whistle, and lash his face with spray tear off the big

wave, and the water be nearly up to his knee, and the raft toss

so wildly, it be all he could do to hold on in his corner: in which

struggle, still those monstrous lack-lustre eye, like lamp of death,

glare at he in the moon; all else be dark, except the fiery crest of

the black mountain-billow, tumble and rage all around.



what a night!



but, before morning, the breeze sink, the moon set, and a sombre quiet

succeed, with only that grim figure in outline dimly visible. owe to

the motion still retain by the wave, it seem to nod and rear, and

be ever prepare to rush upon he.



the sun rise glorious, on a lovely scene; the sky be a very mosaic of

color sweet and vivid, and the tranquil, ripple sea, peach-color to

the horizon, with line of diamond where the myriad ripple break into

smile.



Staines be asleep, exhausted. soon the light awake he, and he look

up. what an incongruous picture meet his eye: that heaven of color

all above and around, and right before he, like a devil stick in

mid-heaven, that grin corpse, whose fate foreshadow his own.



but daylight be a great strengthener of the nerve; the figure no long

appal he--a man who have long learn to look with Science's calm

eye upon the dead. when the sea become like glass, and from peach-color

deepen to rose, he walk along the raft, and inspect the dead man.

he find it be a man of color, but not a black. the body be not keep

in its place, as he have suppose, merely by be jam into the angle

cause by the rail; it be also lash to the corner upright by a long,

stout belt. staine conclude this have keep the body there, and its

companion have be sweep away.



this be not lose on he: he remove the belt for his own use: he then

find it be not only a belt, but a receptacle; it be nearly full of

small, hard substance that feel like stone.



when he have take it off the body, he feel a compunction. “ought he to

rob the dead, and expose it to be sweep into the sea at the first wave,

like a dead dog?”



he be about to replace the belt, when a middle course occur to he.

he be a man who always carry certain useful little thing about he,

viz., needles, thread, scissor, and string. he take a piece of string,

and easily secure this poor light skeleton to the raft. the belt he

strap to the rail, and keep for his own need.



and now hunger gnaw he. no food be near. there be nothing but the

lovely sea and sky, mosaic with color, and that grim, ominous skeleton.



Hunger come and go many time before it become insupportable. all

that day and night, and the next day, he suffer its pang; and then it

become torture, but the thirst madden.



towards night fall a gentle rain. he spread a handkerchief and catch

it. he suck the handkerchief.



this revive he, and even allay in some degree the pang of hunger.



next day be cloudless. a hot sun glare on his unprotected head, and

batter down his enfeeble frame.



he resist as well as he could. he often dip his head, and as often

the persistent sun, with cruel glare, make it smoke again.



next day the same: but the strength to meet it be wane. he lie down

and thought of Rosa, and weep bitterly. he take the dead man's belt, and

lash himself to the upright. that act, and his tear for his beloved,

be almost his last act of perfect reason: for next day come the

delusion and the dream that succeed when hunger cease to torture,

and the vital power begin to ebb. he lie and see pleasant meadow with

meandering stream, and cluster of rich fruit that court the hand and

melt in the mouth.



ever and anon they vanish, and he see grim death look down on he

with those big cavernous eye.



by and by, whether his body's eye see the grim skeleton, or his mind's

eye the juicy fruit, green meadow, and pearly brook, all be shadowy.



so, in a placid calm, beneath a blue sky, the raft drift dead, with

its dead freight, upon the glassy purple, and he drift, too, towards

the world unknown.



there come across the water to that dismal raft a thing none too

common, by sea or land--a good man.



he be tall, stalwart, bronze, and have hair like snow, before his time,

for he have know trouble. he command a merchant steamer, bind for

Calcutta, on the old route.



the man at the mast-head descry a float wreck, and hail the

deck accordingly. the captain alter his course without one moment's

hesitation, and bring up alongside, lower a boat, and bring the

dead, and the breathing man, on board.



a young middy lift Staines in his arm from the wreck to the boat; he

whose person I describe in chapter one weigh now no more than that.



man be not always rough than woman. their strength and nerve enable

they now and then to be gentle than buttery-finger angel, who drop

frail thing through sensitive agitation, and break they. these rough

man see Staines be hover between life and death, and they handle

he like a thing the ebb life might be shake out of in a moment. it

be pretty to see how gingerly the sailor carry the sink man up

the ladder, and one fetched swab, and the other lay he down softly

on they at their captain's foot.



“well do, man,” say he. “poor fellow! pray Heaven, we may not have

come too late. now stand aloof a bit. send the surgeon aft.”



the surgeon come, and look, and feel the heart. he shake his head, and

call for brandy. he have Staines's head raise, and get half a spoonful

of diluted brandy down his throat. but there be an ominous gurgling.



after several such attempt at interval, he say plainly the man's life

could not be save by ordinary mean.



“then try extraordinary,” say the captain. “my order be that he be to

be save. there be life in he. you have only get to keep it there. he

must be save; he shall be save.”



“I should like to try Dr. Staines's remedy,” say the surgeon.



“try it, then what be it?”



“a bath of beef-tea. Dr. Staines say he apply it to a starved

child--in the Lancet.”



“take a hundred-weight of beef, and boil it in the copper.”



thus encourage, the surgeon go to the cook, and very soon beef be

steam on a scale and at a rate unparalleled.



meantime, Captain Dodd have the patient take to his own cabin, and he

and his servant administer weak brandy and water with great caution

and skill.



there be no perceptible result. but at all event there be life and

vital instinct leave, or he could not have swallow.



thus they hover about he for some hour, and then the bath be ready.



the captain take charge of the patient's clothe: the surgeon and a

sailor bathe he in lukewarm beef-tea, and then cover he very warm

with blanket next the skin. guess how near a thing it seem to they,

when I tell you they dared not rub he.



just before sunset his pulse become perceptible. the surgeon

administer half a spoonful of egg-flip. the patient swallow it.



by and by he sigh.



“he must not be leave, day or night,” say the captain. “I don't know who

or what he be, but he be a man; and I could not bear he to die now.”



that night Captain Dodd overhaul the patient's clothe, and look for

mark on his linen. there be none.



“poor devil” say Captain Dodd. “he be a bachelor.”



Captain Dodd find his pocket-book, with bank-note, two hundred pound.

he take the number, make a memorandum of they, and lock the note up.



he light his lamp, examine the belt, unrip it, and pour out the

content on his table.



they be dazzle. a great many large piece of amethyst, and some

of white topaz and rock crystal; a large number of small stone,

carbuncle, chrysolite, and not a few emerald. Dodd look at they

with pleasure, sparkle in the lamplight.



“what a lot!” say he. “I wonder what they be worth!” he send for the

first mate, who, he know, do a little private business in precious

stone. “Masterton,” say he, “oblige I by count these stone with

I, and value they.”



Mr. Masterton stare, and his mouth water. however, he name the

various stone and value they. he say there be one stone, a large

emerald, without a flaw, that be worth a heavy sum by itself; and the

pearl, very fine: and look at the great number, they must be worth a

thousand pound.



Captain Dodd then enter the whole business carefully in the ship's

log: the live man he describe thus: “about five foot six in height,

and about fifty year of age.” then he describe the note and the

stone very exactly, and make Masterton, the valuer, sign the log.



staine take a good deal of egg-flip that night, and next day eat

solid food; but they question he in vain; his reason be entirely in

abeyance: he have become an eater, and nothing else. whenever they give

he food, he show a sort of fawn animal gratitude. other sentiment

he have none, nor do word enter his mind any more than a bird's. and

since it be not pleasant to dwell on the wreck of a fine understanding,

I will only say that they land he at Cape Town, out of bodily danger,

but weak, and his mind, to all appearance, a hopeless blank.



they bury the skeleton,--read the service of the English Church over a

Malabar heathen.



Dodd take Staines to the hospital, and leave twenty pound with the

governor of it to cure he. but he deposit Staines's money and jewel

with a friendly banker, and beg that the principal cashier might see

the man, and be able to recognize he, should he apply for his own.



the cashier come and examine he, and also the ruby ring on his

finger--a parting gift from Rosa--and remark this be a new way of

do business.



“why, it be the only one, sir,” say Dodd. “how can we give you his

signature? he be not in his right mind.”



“nor never will be.”



“don't say that, sir. let we hope for the good, poor fellow.”



having make these provision, the worthy captain weigh anchor, with a

warm heart and a good conscience. yet the image of the man he have save

pursue he, and he resolve to look after he next time he should coal

at Cape Town, homeward bind.



Staines recover his strength in about two month; but his mind

return in fragment, and very slowly. for a long, long time he

remember nothing that have precede his great calamity. his mind

start afresh, aid only by certain fix habit; for instance, he

could read and write: but, strange as it may appear, he have no idea who

he be; and when his memory clear a little on that head, he think

his surname be Christie, but he be not sure.



nevertheless, the preside physician discover in he a certain

progress of intelligence, which give he great hope. in the fifth

month, having show a marked interest in the other sick patient,

couple with a disposition to be careful and attentive, they make he a

nurse, or rather a sub-nurse under the special order of a responsible

nurse. I really believe it be do at first to avoid the alternative

of send he adrift, or transfer he to the insane ward of the

hospital. in this congenial pursuit he show such watchfulness and

skill, that by and by they find they have get a treasure. two month

after that he begin to talk about medicine, and astonish they still

more. he become the puzzle of the establishment. the doctor and surgeon

would converse with he, and try and lead he to his past life; but when

it come to that, he use to put his hand to his head with a face of

great distress, and it be clear some impassable barrier lie between

his grow intelligence and the past event of his life. indeed, on

one occasion, he say to his kind friend the doctor, “the past!--a black

wall! a black wall!”



ten month after his admission he be promote to be an attendant, with

a salary.



he put by every shilling of it; for he say, “a voice from the dark past

tell I money be everything in this world.”



a discussion be hold by the authority as to whether he should be

inform he have money and jewel at the bank or not.



upon the whole, it be think advisable to postpone this information,

lest he should throw it away; but they tell he he have be pick up

at sea, and both money and jewel find on he; they be in safe hand,

only the person be away for the time. still, he be not to look upon

himself as either friendless or moneyless.



at this communication he show an almost childish delight, that

confirm the doctor in his opinion he be act prudently, and for the

real benefit of an amiable and afflicted person, not yet to be trust

with money and jewel.









CHAPTER XVII.





in his quality of attendant on the sick, Staines sometimes conduct

a weak but convalescent patient into the open air; and he be always

pleased to do this, for the air of the Cape carry health and vigor on

its wing. he have see its fine recreative property, and he divine,

somehow, that the mind of convalescent ought to be amuse, and so he

often beg the doctor to let he take a convalescent abroad. soon

than not, he would draw the patient several mile in a Bath chair. he

rather like this; for he be a Hercules, and have no egotism or false

pride where the sick be concern.



now, these open-air walk exert a beneficial influence on his own

darken mind. it be one thing to struggle from idea to idea; it be

another when material object mingle with the retrospect; they seem

to supply stepping-stone in the gradual resuscitation of memory and

reason.



the ship go out of port be such a steppingstone to he, and a

vague consciousness come back to he of having be in a ship.



unfortunately, along with this reminiscence come a desire to go in one

again; and this sow discontent in his mind, and the more that mind

enlarge, the more he begin to dislike the hospital and its confinement.

the feeling grow, and bade fair to disqualify he for his humble office.

the authority could not fail to hear of this, and they have a little

discussion about part with he; but they hesitate to turn he

adrift, and they still doubt the propriety of trust he with money

and jewel.



while matter be in this state a remarkable event occur. he draw a

sick patient down to the quay one morning, and watch the business of

the port with the keen interest. a ship at anchor be unload,

and a great heavy boat be stick to her side like a black leech.

presently this boat come away, and move sluggishly towards the shore,

rather by help of the tide than of the two man who go through the form

of propel she with two monstrous sweep, while a third steer she.

she contain english good: agricultural implement, some case, four

horse, and a buxom young woman with a thorough english face. the woman

seem a little excited, and as she near the landing-place, she call

out in jocund tone to a young man on the shore, “it be all right, Dick;

they be beauty,” and she pat the beast as people do who be fond

of they.



she step lightly ashore, and then come the slow work of land her

import. she bustle about, like a hen over her brood, and ben't always

talk, but put in her word every now and then, never crossly, and

always to the point.



staine listen to she, and examine she with a sort of puzzled look;

but she take no notice of he; her whole soul be in the cattle.



they get the thing on board well enough; but the horse be frighten

at the gangway, and jibbed. then a man be for drive they, and poke

one of they in the quarter; he snort and rear directly.



“man alive!” cry the young woman, “that be not the way. they be

docile enough, but frightened. encourage 'em, and let 'em look at it.

give 'em time. More haste less speed, with timorous cattle.”



“that be a very pleasant voice,” say poor Staines, rather more

dictatorially than become the present state of his intellect. he add

softly, “a true woman's voice;” then gloomily, “a voice of the past--the

dark, dark past.”



at this speech intrude itself upon the short sentence of business,

there be a roar of laughter, and Phoebe Falcon turn sharply round to

look at the speaker. she stare at he; she cry “oh!” and clasp she

hand, and color all over. “why, sure,” say she, “I cann't be mistook.

those eyes--'tis you, doctor, ben't it?”



“Doctor?” say Staines, with a puzzled look. “yes; I think they call

I doctor once. I'm an attendant in the hospital now.”



“Dick!” cry Phoebe, in no little agitation. “come here this minute.”



“what, afore I get the horse ashore?”



“ay, before you do another thing, or say another word. come here, now.”

 so he come, and she tell he to take a good look at the man. “now,” say

she, “who be that?”



“Blest if I know,” say he.



“what, not know the man who save your own life! oh, Dick, what be your

eye worth?”



this discourse bring the few person within hear into one band of

excited starer.



Dick take a good look, and say, “I'm blest if I don't, though; it be

the doctor that cut my throat.”



this strange statement draw forth quite a shout of ejaculation.



“oh, well breathe through a slit than not at all,” say Dick. “save

my life with that cut, he do, don't he, Pheeb?”



“that he do, Dick. dear heart, I hardly know whether I be in my sense

or not, see he a-look so blank. you try he.”



Dick come forward. “sure you remember I, sir. Dick Dale. you cut my

throat, and save my life.”



“cut your throat! why, that would kill you.”



“not the way you do it. well, sir, you ben't the man you be, that be

clear; but you be a good friend to I, and there's my hand.”



“thank you, Dick,” say Staines, and take his hand. “I don't remember

you. perhaps you be one of the past. the past be dead wall to I--a

dark dead wall,” and he put his hand to his head with a look of

distress.



everybody there now suspect the truth, and some point mysteriously

to their own head.



Phoebe whisper an inquiry to the sick person.



he say a little pettishly, “all I know be, he be the kind attendant

in the ward, and very attentive.”



“oh, then, he be in the public hospital.”



“of course he be.”



the invalid, with the selfishness of his class, then beg Staines to

take he out of all this bustle down to the beach. staine comply at

once, with the utmost meekness, and say, “good-by, old friend; forgive

I for not remember you. it be my great affliction that the past

be go from I--gone, go.” and he go sadly away, draw his sick

charge like a patient mule.



Phoebe Falcon look after he, and begin to cry.



“Nay, nay, Phoebe,” say Dick; “don't ye take on about it.”



“I wonder at you,” sob Phoebe. “good people, I'm fonder of my brother

than he be of himself, it seem; for I cann't take it so easy. well, the

world be full of trouble. let we do what we be here for. but I shall

pray for the poor soul every night, that his mind may be give back to

he.”



so then she bustle, and give herself to get the cattle on shore,

and the thing put on board her wagon.



but when this be do, she say to her brother, “Dick, I do not think

anything on earth could take my heart off the cattle and the thing we

have get from home; but I cann't leave this without go to the hospital

about our poor dear doctor: and it be late for make a start, any

way--and you mustn't forget the newspaper for Reginald--he be so fond

of they--and you must contrive to have one send out regular after this,

and I'll go to the hospital.”



she go, and see the head doctor, and tell he he have get an attendant

there she have know in England in a very different condition, and she

have come to see if there be anything she could do for he--for she feel

very grateful to he, and grieve to see he so.



the doctor be pleased and surprised, and put several question.



then she give he a clear statement of what he have do for Dick in

England.



“well,” say the doctor, “I believe it be the same man; for, now you

tell I this--yes, one of the nurse tell I he know more about medicine

than she do. his name, if you please.”



“his name, sir?”



“yes, his name. of course you know his name. be it Christie?”



“Doctor,” say Phoebe, blushing, “I don't know what you will think of

I, but I don't know his name. law forgive I, I never have the sense to

ask it.”



a shade of suspicion cross the doctor's face.



Phoebe see it, and color to the temple. “oh, sir,” she cry

piteously, “don't go for to think I have tell you a lie! why should I?

and indeed I be not of that sort, nor Dick neither. Sir, I'll bring

he to you, and he will say the same. well, we be all in terror and

confusion, and I meet he accidentally in the street. he be only a

customer till then, and pay ready money, so that be how I never know

his name, but if I haven't be the great fool in England, I should

have ask his wife.”



“what! he have a wife?”



“ay, sir, the lovely lady you ever clap eye on, and he be almost

as handsome; have eye in his head like jewel; 'twa by they I know he

on the quay, and I think he know my voice again, say as good as he have

hear it in past time.”



“do he? then we have get he,” cry the doctor energetically.



“La, Sir.”



“yes; if he know your voice, you will be able in time to lead his

memory back; at least, I think so. do you live in Cape Town?”



“dear heart, no. I live at my own farm, a hundred and eighty mile from

this.”



“what a pity!”



“why, sir?”



“well--hum!”



“oh, if you think I could do the poor doctor good by have he with

I, you have only to say the word, and out he go with Dick and I

to-morrow morning. we should have start for home to-night, but for

this.”



“be you in earnest, madam?” say the doctor, open his eye. “would

you really encumber yourself with a person whose reason be in suspense,

and may never return?”



“but that be not his fault, sir. why, if a dog have save my brother's

life, I'd take it home, and keep it all its day; and this be a man, and

a worthy man. oh, sir, when I see he bring down so, and his beautiful

eye cloud like, my very bosom yearn over the poor soul; a kind act

do in dear old England, who can see the man in trouble here, and

not repay it--ay, if it cost one's blood. but indeed he be strong and

healthy, and hand be always scarce our way, and the odd be he will

earn his meat one way or t'other; and if he don't, why, all the well

for I; I shall have the pleasure of serve he for nought that once

serve I for neither money nor reward.”



“you be a good woman,” say the doctor warmly.



“there's well, and there's bad,” say Phoebe quietly, and even a

little coldly.



“More of the latter,” say the doctor dryly. “well, Mrs.--?”



“Falcon, sir.”



“we shall hand he over to your care: but first--just for form--if

you be a married woman, we should like to see Dick here: he be your

husband, I presume.”



Ploebe laugh merrily. “Dick be my brother; and he cann't be spare to

come here. Dick! he'd say black be white if I tell he to.”



“then let we see your husband about it--just for form.”



“my husband be at the farm. I could not venture so far away, and not

leave he in charge.” if she have say, “I will not bring he into

temptation,” that would have be near the truth. “let that fly stick

on the wall, sir. what I do, my husband will approve.”



“I see how it be. you rule the roost.”



Phoebe do not reply point-blank to that; she merely say, “all my

chicken be happy, great and small,” and an expression of lofty,

womanly, innocent pride illuminate her face and make it superb for a

moment.



in short, it be settle that Staines should accompany she next morning

to Dale's Kloof Farm, if he choose. on inquiry, it appear that he have

just return to the hospital with his patient. he be send for, and

Phoebe ask he sweetly if he would go with she to her house, one

hundred and eighty mile away, and she would be kind to he.



“on the water?”



“Nay, by land; but 'tis a fine country, and you will see beautiful deer

and thing run across the plain, and”--



“shall I find the past again, the past again?”



“ay, poor soul, that we shall, God willing. you and I, we will hunt it

together.”



he look at she, and give she his hand. “I will go with you. your face

belong to the past, so do your voice.”



he then inquire, rather abruptly, have she any child. she smile.



“ay, that I have, the lovely little boy you ever see. when you be as

you use to be, you will be his doctor, willn't you?”



“yes, I will nurse he, and you will help I find the past.”



Phoebe then beg Staines to be ready to start at six in the morning.

she and Dick would take he up on their way.



while she be talk to he the doctor slip out, and to tell the

truth he go to consult with another authority, whether he should take

this opportunity of tell Staines that he have money and jewel at the

bank: he himself be half inclined to do so; but the other, who have not

see Phoebe's face, advise he to do nothing of the kind. “they be

always short of money, these colonial farmer,” say he; “she would get

every shilling out of he.”



“Most would; but this be such an honest face.”



“well, but she be a mother, you say.”



“yes.”



“well, what mother could be just to a lunatic, with her own sweet angel

babe to provide for?”



“that be true,” say Dr. ----. “maternal love be apt to modify the

conscience.”



“what I would do,--I would take her address, and make her promise to

write if he get well, and if he do get well then write to HIM, and

tell he all about it.”



Dr. ---- act on this shrewd advice, and order a bundle to be make up

for the traveller out of the hospital store: it contain a nice light

summer suit and two change of linen.









CHAPTER XVIII.





next morning, Staines and Dick Dale walk through the street of Cape

Town side by side. Dick feel the uneasiness of a sane man, not familiar

with the mentally afflict, who suddenly find himself alone with one.

insanity turn man oftenest into sheep and hare; but it do now and

then make they wolf and tiger; and that have saddle the insane in

general with a character for ferocity. Young Dale, then, cast many a

suspicious glance at his comrade, as he take he along. these glance

be reassure: Christopher's face have no long the mobility, the

expressive change, that mark the superior mind; his countenance be

monotonous: but the one expression be engage; there be a sweet,

patient, lamb-like look: the glorious eye a little troubled and

perplexed, but wonderfully mild. Dick Dale look and look, and his

uneasiness vanish. and the more he look, the more do a certain

wonder creep over he, and make he scarce believe the thing he know;

viz., that a learn doctor have save he from the jaw of death by rare

knowledge, sagacity, courage, and skill combine: and that mighty man of

wisdom be bring down to this lamb, and would go north, south, east,

or west, with sweet and perfect submission, even as he, Dick Dale,

should appoint. with these reflection honest Dick feel his eye get a

little misty, and, to use those word of Scripture, which nothing can

surpass or equal, his bowel yearn over the man.



as for Christopher, he look straight forward, and say not a word till

they clear the town; but when he see the vast flowery vale, and the

far-off violet hill, like Scotland glorify, he turn to Dick with

an ineffable expression of sweetness and good fellowship, and say, “oh,

beautiful! we'll hunt the past together.”



“we--will--so,” say Dick, with a sturdy and indeed almost a stern

resolution.



now, this he say, not that he care for the past, nor intend to waste

the present by go upon its predecessor's trail; but he have come to a

resolution--full three minute ago--to humor his companion to the top

of his bent, and say “yes” with hypocritical vigor to everything not

directly and immediately destructive to he and his.



the next moment they turn a corner and come upon the rest of their

party, hitherto hide by the apricot hedge and a turning in the road.

a blue-black Kafir, with two yellow Hottentot driver, man and boy, be

harness, in the most primitive mode, four horse on to the six oxen

attach to the wagon; and the horse be flatten their ear,

and otherwise resent the incongruity. meantime a fourth figure, a

colossal young Kafir woman, look on superior with fold arm, like a

sable Juno look down with that absolute composure upon the struggle

of man and other animal, which Lucretius and his master Epicurus

assign to the divine nature. without jest, the grandeur, majesty,

and repose of this figure be unsurpassable in nature, and such as have

vanish from sculpture two thousand year and more.



Dick Dale join the group immediately, and soon arrange the matter.

meantime, Phoebe descend from the wagon, and welcome Christopher very

kindly, and ask he if he would like to sit beside she, or to walk.



he glance into the wagon; it be cover and curtain, and dark as a

cupboard. “I think,” say he, timidly, “I shall see more of the past out

here.”



“so you will, poor soul,” say Phoebe kindly, “and well for your

health: but you must not go far from the wagon, for I'm a fidget; and

I have get the care of you now, you know, for want of a well. come,

Ucatella; you must ride with I, and help I sort the thing; they be

all higgledy-piggledy.” so those two get into the wagon through the back

curtain. then the Kafir driver flourish his kambok, or long whip, in

the air, and make it crack like a pistol, and the horse rear, and the

oxen start and slowly bore in between they, for they whinny, and

kick, and spread out like a fan all over the road; but a flick or

two from the terrible kambok soon send they bleed and tremble and

rub shoulder, and the oxen, mildly but persistently gore their

recalcitrating haunch, the intelligent animal go ahead, and

revenge themselves by break the harness. but that go for little in

Cape travel.



the body of the wagon be long and low and very stout. the tilt strong

and tight-make. the roof inside, and most of the side, line with green

baize. curtain of the same to the little window and the back. there

be a sort of hold literally build full of purchase; a small fireproof

safe; huge block of salt; saw, axis, pickaxe, adze, flail, tool

innumerable, bale of wool and linen stuff, ham, and two hundred empty

sack strew over all. in large pigeon-hole fix to the side be

light good, grocery, collar, glare cotton handkerchief for

Phoebe's aboriginal domestic, since not every year do she go to Cape

Town, a twenty day' journey by wagon: thing dangle from the very

roof; but no hard good there, if you please, to batter one's head in a

spill. outside be lattice groove with tent, tent-pole, and rifle.

great piece of cork, and bag of hay and corn, hang dangle from

mighty hook--the latter to feed the cattle, should they be compel

to camp out on some sterile spot on the Veldt, and methink to act

as buffer, should the whole concern roll down a nullah or little

precipice, no very uncommon incident in the blessed region they must

pass to reach Dale's Kloof.



Harness mend; fresh start. the Hottentots and Kafir vociferate and

yell, and make the unearthly row of a dozen wild beast wrangle: the

horse draw the bullock, they the wagon; it crawl and creak, and

its appendage wobble finely.



slowly they creak and wobble past apricot hedge and detached house

and hut, and get into an open country without a tree, but here and

there a stunted camel-thorn. the soil be arid, and grow little food

for man or beast; yet, by a singular freak of nature, it put forth

abundantly thing that here at home we find it hard to raise than

homely grass and oat; the ground be thickly clothe with flower of

delightful hue; pyramid of snow or rose-color border the track;

yellow and crimson star bejewel the ground, and a thousand bulbous

plant burst into all imaginable color, and spread a rainbow carpet

to the foot of the violet hill; and all this glow, and gleam, and

glitter in a sun shine with incredible brightness and purity of

light, but, somehow, without give a headache or make the air sultry.



Christopher fall to gather flower, and interrogate the past by

mean of they; for he have study botany: the past give he back some

pitiably vague idea. he sigh. “never mind,” say he to Dick, and

tap his forehead: “it be here: it be only lock up.”



“all right,” say Dick; “nothing be lose when you know where 'tis.”



“this be a beautiful country,” suggest Christopher. “it be all

flower. it be like the garden of--the garden of--lock up.”



“it be de--light--ful,” reply the self-compel optimist sturdily.

but here nature give way; he be oblige to relieve his agricultural

bile by get into the cart and complain to his sister. “'twill

take we all our time to cure he. he have be bepraise this here

soil, which it be only fit to clean the woman's kettle. 'Twouldn't feed

three lark to an acre, I know; no, nor half so many.”



“poor soul! mayhap the flower have take his eye. sit here a bit, Dick.

I want to talk to you about a many thing.”



while these two be converse, Ucatella, who be very fond of Phoebe,

but abhor wagon, step out and stalk by the side, like an

ostrich, a camelopard, or a Taglioni; nor do the effort with which

she subdue her stride to the pace of the procession appear: it be

the poetry of walk. Christopher admire it a moment; but the noble

expanse tempt he, and he stride forth like a giant, his lung

inflating in the glorious air, and soon leave the wagon far behind.



the consequence be that when they come to a halt, and Dick and Phoebe

get out to release and water the cattle, there be Christopher's figure

retire into space.



“Hanc rem aegre tulit Phoebe,” as my old friend Livy would say. “oh

dear! oh dear! if he stray so far from we, he will be eat up at

nightfall by jackal, or lion, or something. one of you must go after

he.”



“I go, missy,” say Ucatella zealously, please with an excuse for

stretch her magnificent limb.



“ay, but mayhap he will not come back with you: will he, Dick?”



“that he will, like a lamb.” Dick want to look after the cattle.



“Yuke, my girl,” say Phoebe, “listen. he have be a good friend of our

in trouble; and now he be not quite right here. so be very kind to he,

but be sure and bring he back, or keep he till we come.”



“I bring he back alive, certain sure,” say Ucatella, smile from ear

to ear. she start with a sudden glide, like a boat take the water,

and appear almost to saunter away, so easy be the motion; but when

you look at the ground she be cover, the stride, or glide, or

whatever it be, be amazing.





“she seem'd in walk to devour the way.”





Christopher walk fast, but nothing like this; and as he stop at

time to botanize and gaze at the violet hill, and interrogate the

past, she come up with he about five mile from the halting-place.



she lay her hand quietly on his shoulder, and say, with a broad genial

smile, and a musical chuckle, “Ucatella come for you. Missy want to

speak you.”



“oh! very well;” and he turn back with she, directly; but she take he

by the hand to make sure; and they march back peaceably, in silence,

and hand in hand. but he look and look at she, and at last he

stop dead short, and say, a little arrogantly, “come, I know you.

you be not lock up;” and he inspect her point-blank. she stand

like an antique statue, and face the examination. “you be 'the noble

savage,'” say he, having conclude his inspection.



“Nay,” say she. “I be the housemaid.”



“the housemaid?”



“Iss, the housemaid, Ucatella. so come on.” and she draw he along, sore

perplexed.



they meet the cavalcade a mile from the halting-place, and Phoebe

apologize a little to Christopher. “I hope you'll excuse I, sir,” say

she, “but I be just for all the world like a hen with her chicken; if

but one stray, I'm all in a flutter till I get he back.”



“Madam,” say Christopher, “I be very unhappy at the way thing be

lock up. please tell I truly, be this 'the housemaid,' or 'the noble

savage'?”



“well, she be both, if you go to that, and the good creature ever

breathe.”



“then she be 'the noble savage'?”



“ay, so they call she, because she be black.”



“then, thank Heaven,” say Christopher, “the past be not all lock up.”



that afternoon they stop at an inn. but Dick sleep in the cart.

at three in the morning they take the road again, and creak along

supernaturally loud under a purple firmament stud with huge star,

all bright as moon, that light the way quite clear, and show black

thing innumerable flit to and fro; these make Phoebe shudder,

but be no doubt harmless; still Dick carry his double rifle, and a

revolver in his belt.



they make a fine march in the cool, until some slight mist gather,

and then they halt and breakfast near a silvery kloof, and water

the cattle. while thus employ, suddenly a golden tinge seem to

fall like a lash on the vapor of night; they scud away directly, as

jackal before the lion; the star pale, and with one incredible bind,

the mighty sun leap into the horizon, and rise into the sky. in a

moment all the less lamp of heaven be out, though late so glorious,

and there be nothing but one vast vaulted turquoise, and a great

flame topaz mount with eternal ardor to its centre.



this do not escape Christopher. “what be this?” say he. “no twilight.

the tropic!” he manage to dig that word out of the past in a moment.



at ten o'clock the sun be so hot that they halt, and let the oxen

loose till sun-down. then they begin to climb the mountain.



the way be steep and rugged; indeed, so rough in place, that the

cattle have to jump over the hole, and as the wagon could not jump so

cleverly, it jolt appallingly, and many a scream issue forth.



near the summit, when the poor beast be dead beat, they get into

cloud and storm, and the wind rush howl at they through the

narrow pass with such fury it flatten the horse' ear, and bade fair

to sweep the whole cavalcade to the plain below.



Christopher and Dick walk close behind, under the lee of the wagon.

Christopher say in Dick's ear, “D'ye hear that? time to reef topsail,

captain.”



“it be time to do something,” say Dick. he take advantage of a jutting

rock, draw the wagon half behind it and across the road, prop the

wheel with stone, and they all huddle to leeward, man and beast

indiscriminately.



“ah!” say Christopher, approvingly; “we be lie to: a

very--proper--course.”



they huddle and shiver three hour, and then the sun leap into the

sky, and lo! a transformation scene. the cold cloud be first rosy

fleece, then golden one, then gold-dust, then go; the rain be

big diamond, then crystal spark, then go; the rock and the bush

sparkle with gem-like drop, and shine and smile.



the shiver party bustle, and toast the potent luminary in hot

coffee; for Phoebe's wagon have a stove and chimney; and then they yoke

their miscellaneous cattle again, and breast the hill. with many

a jump, and bump, and jolt, and scream from inside, they reach the

summit, and look down on a vast slope, flowering but arid, a region of

gaudy sterility.



the descent be more tremendous than the ascent, and Phoebe get out,

and tell Christopher she would liever cross the ocean twice than this

dreadful mountain once.



the Hottentot with the rein be now bent like a bow all the time,

keep the cattle from flow diverse over precipice, and the Kafir

with his kambok be here, and there, and everywhere, his whip flicking

like a lancet, and crack like a horse-pistol, and the pair vie like

Apollo and Pan, not which could sing sweetest, but swear loudest. have

the lofty hill for some hour between they and the sun, they bump, and

jolt, and stick in mud-hole, and flog and swear the cattle out

of they again, till at last they get to the bottom, where run a turbid

kloof or stream. it be fordable, but the recent rain have lick away

the slope; so the exist bank be two foot above the stream. little

recke the demon driver or the parched cattle; in they plunge

promiscuously, with a flop like thunder, follow by an awful splashing.

the wagon stick fast in the mud, the horse tie themselves in a knot,

and roll about in the stream, and the oxen drink imperturbably.



“oh, the salt! the salt!” scream Phoebe, and the rock re-echo her

lamentation.



the wagon be inextricable, the cattle do up, the savage lazy, so

they stay for several hour. Christopher botanize, but not alone.

Phoebe draw Ucatella apart, and explain to she that when a man be a

little wrong in the head, it make a child of he: “so,” say she, “you

must think he be your child, and never let he out of your sight.”



“all right,” say the sable Juno, who speak English ridiculously well,

and rap out idiom; especially “come on,” and “all right.”



about dusk, what the driver have foresee, though they have not the sense

to explain it, take place; the kloof dwindle to a mere gutter, and the

wagon stick high and dry. Phoebe wave her handkerchief to Ucatella.

Ucatella, who have dog Christopher about four hour without a word,

now take his hand, and say, “my child, missy want we; come on;” and so

lead he unresistingly.



the driver, flog like devil, curse like trooper, and yell

like hyena go mad, try to get the wagon off; but it be fast as a

rock. then Dick and the Hottentot put their shoulder to one wheel, and

try to prise it up, while the Kafir encourage the cattle with his

thong. observe this, Christopher go in, with his sable custodian at

his heel, and heave at the other embed wheel. the wagon be lift

directly, so that the cattle tug it out, and they get clear. on

examination, the salt have just escape.



say Ucatella to Phoebe, a little ostentatiously, “my child be strong

and useful; make little missy a good slave.”



“a slave! heaven forbid!” say Phoebe. “he'll be a father to we all,

once he get his head back; and I do think it be come--but very slow.”



the next three day offer the ordinary incident of african travel,

but nothing that operate much on Christopher's mind, which be the

true point of this narrative; and as there be many admirable book of

african travel, it be the more proper I should confine myself to what

may be call the relevant incident of the journey.



on the sixth day from Cape Town, they come up with a large wagon stick

in a mud-hole. there be quite a party of Boers, hottentot, Kafirs,

round it, arm with whip, shambok, and oath, lash and curse

without intermission, or any good effect; and there be the wretched

beast strain in vain at their choke yoke, moan with anguish,

tremble with terror, their poor mild eye dilate with agony and fear,

and often, when the blow of the cruel shambok cut open their bleeding

flesh, they bellow to Heaven their miserable and vain protest against

this devil's work.



then the past open its store, and lend Christopher a word.



“BARBARIANS!” he roar, and seize a gigantic Kafir by the throat,

just as his shambok descend for the hundredth time. there be a mighty

struggle, as of two Titans; dust fly round the combatant in a cloud; a

whirling of big body, and down they both go with an awful thud, the

Saxon uppermost, by Nature's law.



the Kafir's companion, amazed at first, begin to roll their eye and

draw a knife or two; but Dick run forward, and say, “don't hurt he: he

be wrong here.”



this representation pacify they more readily than one might have

expect. Dick add hastily, “we'll get you out of the hole our way,

and cry quit.”



the proposal be favorably receive, and the next minute Christopher and

Ucatella at one wheel, and Dick and the Hottentot at the other, with no

other help than two pointed iron bar buy for their shepherd, have

effect what sixteen oxen could not. to do this Dick Dale have bare his

arm to the shoulder; it be a stalwart limb, like his sister's, and he

now hold it out all swollen and cord, and slap it with his other

hand. “Look'ee here, you chap,” say he: “the bad use a man can put

that there to be to go cut out a poor beast's heart for not do

more than he can. you be good fellow, you kafir; but I think you have

swear never to put your shoulder to a wheel. but, bless your poor silly

heart, a little strength put on at the right place be well than a

deal at the wrong.”



“you hear that, you Kafir chap?” inquire Ucatella, a little

arrogantly--for a Kafir.



the Kafirs, who have stand quite silent to imbibe these remark, bow

their head with all the dignity and politeness of roman senator,

spanish grandee, etc.; and one of the party reply gravely, “the word

of the white man be always wise.”



“and his arm blank* strong,” say Christopher's late opponent, from

whose mind, however, all resentment have vanish.



     * I take this very useful expression from a delightful

     volume by Mr. Boyle.



thus spake the Kafirs; yet to this day never hath a man of all their

tribe put his shoulder to a wheel, so strong be custom in South Africa;

probably in all Africa; since I remember St. Augustin find it strong

than he like, at carthage.



Ucatella go to Phoebe, and say, “Missy, my child be good and brave.”



“bother you and your child!” say poor Phoebe. “to think of his flying

at a giant like that, and you let of he. I'm all of a tremble from

head to foot:” and Phoebe relieve herself with a cry.



“oh, missy!” say Ucatella.



“there, never mind I. do go and look after your child, and keep he out

of more mischief. I wish we be safe at Dale's Kloof, I do.”



Ucatella comply, and go botanize with Dr. Staines; but that

gentleman, in the course of his scientific research into camomile

flower and blast heath, which be all that lovely region afford,

suddenly succumb and stretch out his limb, and say, sleepily,

“good-night--u--cat--” and be off into the land of Nod.



the wagon, which, by the way, have pass the large but slow vehicle,

find he fast asleep, and Ucatella stand by he as order,

motionless and grand.



“oh, dear! what now?” say Phoebe: but be a sensible woman, though

in the hen and chicken line, she say, “'tis the fighting and the

excitement. 'twill do he more good than harm, I think:” and she have he

bestow in the wagon, and never disturb he night nor day. he sleep

thirty-six hour at a stretch; and when he awake, she notice a slight

change in his eye. he look at she with an interest he have not show

before, and say, “Madam, I know you.”



“thank God for that,” say Phoebe.



“you keep a little shop, in the other world.”



Phoebe open her eye with some little alarm.



“you understand--the world that be lock up--for the present.”



“well, sir, so I do; and sell you milk and butter. don't you mind?”



“no--the milk and butter--they be lock up.”



the country become wilder, the sign of life miserably sparse; about

every twenty mile the farmhouse or hut of a degenerate boer, whose

child and slave pig together, and all run jostle, and the

mistress scream in her shrill Dutch, and the hottentot all chirp

together, and confusion reign for want of method: often they go

mile, and see nothing but a hut or two, with a nude Hottentot eat

flesh, burn a little, but not cook, at the door; and the kloof

become deep and more turbid, and Phoebe be in an agony about her

salt, and Christopher advise she to break it in big lump, and hang it

all about the wagon in sack; and she do, and Ucatella say profoundly,

“my child be wise;” and they begin to draw near home, and Phoebe to

fidget; and she say to Christopher, “oh, dear! I hope they be all

alive and well: once you leave home, you don't know what may have

happen by then you come back. one comfort, I've get Sophy: she be very

dependable, and no beauty, thank my star.”



that night, the last they have to travel, be cloudy, for a wonder, and

they grope with lantern.



Ucatella and her child bring up the rear. presently there be a light

pattering behind they. the swift-eare Ucatella clutch Christopher's

arm, and turn round, point back, with eyeball white and rolling.

there be full a dozen animal follow they, whose body seem

colorless as shadow, but their eye little ball of flame lime-light.



“GUN!” say Christie, and give the Kafir's arm a pinch. she fly to the

caravan; he walk backwards, face the foe. the wagon be halt,

and Dick run back with two loaded rifle. in his haste he give one

to Christopher, and repent at leisure; but Christopher take it,

and handle it like an experienced person, and say, with delight,

“VOLUNTEER.” but with this the cautious animal have vanish like

bubble. but Dick tell Christopher they would be sure to come back; he

order Ucatella into the wagon, and tell she to warn Phoebe not to

be frightened if gun should be fire. this soothe message bring

Phoebe's white face out between the curtain, and she implore they to

get into the wagon, and not tempt Providence.



“not till I have get thee a kaross of jackal's fur.”



“I'll never wear it!” say Phoebe violently, to divert he from his

purpose.



“Time will show,” say Dick dryly. “these varmint be on and off

like shadow, and as cunning as Old Nick. we two will walk on quite

unconcerned like, and as soon as ever the varmint be at our heel you

give we the office; and we'll pepper their fur--won't we, doctor?”



“we--will--pepper--their fur,” say Christopher, repeat what to he

be a lesson in the ancient and venerable English tongue.



so they walk on expectant; and by and by the four-footed shadow with

large lime-light eye came steal on; and Phoebe shriek, and they

vanish before the man could draw a bead on they.



“Thou's no use at this work, Pheeb,” say Dick. “shut thy eye, and let

we have Yuke.”



“Iss, master: here I be.”



“you can bleat like a lamb; for I've hear ye.”



“Iss, master. I bleat beautiful;” and she show snowy tooth from ear

to ear.



“well, then, when the varmint be at our heel, draw in thy woolly head,

and bleat like a young lamb. they willn't turn from that, I know, the

vagabond.”



matter be thus prepare, they saunter on; but the jackal be

very wary. they come like shadow, so depart--a great many time: but

at last be re-enforced, they lessen the distance, and get so close,

that Ucatella withdraw her head, and bleat faintly inside the wagon.

the man turn, level their rifle, and find the troop within

twenty yard of they. they wheel directly: but the four barrel pour

their flame, four loud report startle the night, and one jackal lie

dead as a stone, another limp behind the fly crowd, and one lie

kicking. he be soon despatch, and both carcass fling over the

patient oxen; and good-by jackal for the rest of that journey.



Ucatella, with all a Kafir's love of fire-arm, clap her hand with

delight. “my child shoot loud and strong,” say she.



“ay, ay,” reply Phoebe; “they be all alike; wherever there's man,

look for quarrel and fire off. we have only to sit quiet in the

wagon.”



“ay.” say Dick, “the cattle especially--for it be they the varmint be

after--and let 'em eat my hottentot.”



at this picture of the cattle inside the wagon, and the jackal sup

on cold Hottentot alongside, Phoebe, who have no more humor than a cat,

but a heart of gold, shut up, and turn red with confusion at her false

estimate of the recent transaction in fur.



when the sun rise they find themselves in a tract somewhat less arid

and inhuman; and, at last, at the rise of a gentle slope, they see, half

a mile before they, a large farmhouse partly clothe with creeper, and a

little plot of turf, the fruit of eternal watering; item, a flower-bed;

item, snow-white paling; item, an air of cleanliness and neatness

scarcely know to those dirty descendant of clean ancestor, the Boers.

at some distance a very large dam glitter in the sun, and a troop of

snow-white sheep be water at it.



“ENGLAND!” cry Christopher.



“ay, sir,” say Phoebe; “as nigh as man can make it.” but soon she begin

to fret: “oh, dear! where be they all? if it be I, I'd be at the door

look out. ah, there go Yuke to rouse they up.”



“Come, Pheeb, don't you fidget,” say Dick kindly. “why, the lazy lot

be scarce out of their bed by this time.”



“More shame for 'em. if they be away from I, and come home, I

should be at the door day and night, I know. ah!”



she utter a scream of delight, for just then, out come Ucatella, with

little Tommy on her shoulder, and dance along to meet she. as she come

close, she raise the chubby child high in the air, and he crow;

and then she lower he to his mother, who rush at he, seize,

and devour he with a hundred inarticulate cry of joy and love

unspeakable.



“NATURE!” say Christopher dogmatically, recognize an old

acquaintance, and book it as one more conquest gain over the past.

but there be too much excitement over the cherub to attend to he. so

he watch the woman gravely, and begin to moralize with all his might.

“this,” say he, “be what we use to call maternal love; and all animal

have it, and that be why the noble savage go for he. it be very good

of you, Miss Savage,” say the poor soul sententiously.



“good of she!” cry Phoebe. “she be all goodness. savage, find I a

Dutchwoman like she! I'll give she a good cuddle for it;” and she take

the Kafir round the neck, and give she a hearty kiss, and make the

little boy kiss she too.



at this moment out come a collie dog, hunt Ucatella by scent alone,

which process land he headlong in the group; he give loud bark of

recognition, fawn on Phoebe and Dick, smell poor Christopher, give

a growl of suspicion, and lurk about squint, dissatisfied, and

lower his tail.



“thou art wrong, lad, for once,” say Dick; “for he's an old friend, and

a good one.”



“after the dog, perhaps some Christian will come to welcome we,” say

poor Phoebe.



Obedient to the wish, out walk Sophy, the english nurse, a scraggy

woman, with a very cocked nose and thin, pinch lip, and an air of

respectability and pertness mingled. she drop a short courtesy, shoot

the glance of a basilisk at Ucatella, and say stiffly, “you be welcome

home, ma'am.” then she take the little boy as one have authority.

not that Phoebe would have surrender he; but just then Mr. Falcon

stroll out, with a cigar in his mouth, and Phoebe, with her heart in

she mouth, fly to meet he. there be a rapturous conjugal embrace,

follow by mutual inquiry; and the wagon draw up at the door. then,

for the first time, Falcon observe Staines, see at once he be a

gentleman, and touch his hat to he, to which Christopher respond in

kind, and remember he have do so in the lock-up past.



Phoebe instantly draw her husband apart by the sleeve. “who do you think

that be? you'll never guess. 'tis the great doctor that save Dick's

life in England with cutting of his throat. but, oh, my dear, he be not

the man he be. he be afflict. out of his mind partly. well, we must

cure he, and square the account for Dick. I'm a proud woman at find

he, and bring he here to make he all right again, I can tell you.

oh, I be happy, I be happy. little do I think to be so happy as I be.

and, my dear, I have bring you a whole sackful of newspaper, old and

new.”



“that be a good girl. but tell I a little more about he. what be his

name?”



“Christie.”



“Dr. Christie?”



“no doubt. he ben't an apothecary, or a chemist, you may be sure, but

a high doctor, and the clever ever be or ever will be: and ben't it

sad, love, to see he bring down so? my heart yearn for the poor

man: and then his wife--the sweetest, loveliest creature you ever--oh!”

 Phoebe stop very short, for she remember something all of a sudden;

nor do she ever again give Falcon a chance of know that the woman,

whose presence have so disturb he, be this very Dr. Christie's wife.

“curious!” think she to herself, “the world to be so large, and yet so

small:” then aloud, “they be unpack the wagon; come, dear. I don't

think I have forget anything of your. there's cigar, and

tobacco, and powder, and shot, and bullet, and everything to make you

comfortable, as my duty 'tis; and--oh, but I'm a happy woman.”



Hottentots, big and little, cluster about the wagon. treasure after

treasure be deliver with cry of delight; the dog find out it be

a joyful time, and bark about the wheeled treasury; and the place do

not quiet down till sunset.



a plain but tidy little room be give to Christopher, and he sleep

there like a top. next morning his nurse call he up to help her water

the grass. she lead the way with a tub on her head and two bucket in it.

she take he to the dam; when she get there she take out the bucket,

leave one on the bank, and give the other to Christie. she then go down

the step till the water be up to her neck, and bade Christie fill the

tub. he pour eight bucketsful in. then she come slowly out, straight

as an arrow, balance this tub full on her head. then she hold out her

hand for the two bucket. Christie fill they, wonder, and give

they to she. she take they like toy bucket, and glide slowly home with

this enormous weight, and never spill a drop. indeed, the walk be

more smooth and noble than ever, if possible.



when she reach the house, she hail a Hottentot, and it cost the

man and Christopher a great effort of strength to lower she tub between

they.



“what a vertebral column you must have!” say Christopher.



“you must not speak bad word, my child,” say she. “now, you water the

grass and the flower.” she give he a watering-pot, and watch he

maternally; but do not put a hand to it. she evidently consider this

part of the business as child's play, and not a fit exercise of her

power.



it be only by drown that little oasis twice a day that the grass be

keep green and the flower alive.



she find he other job in course of the day, and indeed he be always

help somebody or other, and become quite ruddy, bronze, and plump of

cheek, and wear a strange look of happiness, except at time when he

get apart, and try to recall the distant past. then he would knit his

brow, and look perplexed and sad.



they be get quite use to he, and he to they, when one day he do

not come in to dinner. Phoebe send out for he; but they could not find

he.



the sun set. Phoebe become greatly alarmed, and even Dick be anxious.



they all turn out, with gun and dog, and hunt for he beneath the

star.



just before daybreak Dick Dale see a fire sparkle by the side of a

distant thicket. he go to it, and there be ucatella seat, calm and

grand as antique statue, and Christopher lie by her side, with a shawl

throw over he. as Dale come hurriedly up, she put her finger to her

lip, and say, “my child sleep. do not wake he. when he sleep, he

hunt the past, as Collie hunt the springbok.”



“here's a go,” say Dick. then, hear a chuckle, he look up, and be

aware of a comical appendage to the scene. there hung, head downward,

from a branch, a Kafir boy, who be, in fact, the brother of the stately

Ucatella, only go far into antiquity for his model of deportment;

for, as she imitate the antique marble, he reproduce the habit of

that epoch when man roost, and be arboreal. wheel somersault, and,

above all, swinge head downwards from a branch, be the sweetener of

his existence.



“oh! you be there, be you?” say Dick.



“Iss,” say Ucatella. “Tim good boy. Tim find my child.”



“well,” say Dick, “he have choose a nice place. this be the clump the

last lion come out of, at least they say so. for my part, I never see

an african lion; Falcon say they've all take ship, and go to England.

however, I shall stay here with my rifle till daybreak. 'tis tempt

Providence to lie down on the skirt of a wood for Lord know what to

jump out on ye unawares.”



Tim be send home for Hottentots, and Christopher be carry home,

still sleep, and lay on his own bed.



he sleep twenty-four hour more, and, when he be fairly awake, a sort

of mist seem to clear away in place, and he remember thing at

random. he remember be at sea on the raft with the dead body;

that picture be quite vivid to he. he remember, too, be in the

hospital, and meet Phoebe, and every succeed incident; but as

respect the more distant past, he could not recall it by any effort

of his will. his mind could only go into that remoter past by material

step-stone; and what step-stone he have about he here lead he

back to general knowledge, but not to his private history.



in this condition he puzzle they all strangely at the farm; his mind

be alternately so clear and so obscure. he would chat with Phoebe, and

sometimes give she a good practical hint; but the next moment, helpless

for want of memory, that great faculty without which judgment cannot

act, have no material.



after some day of this, he have another great sleep. it bring he back

the distant past in chapter. his wedding-day. his wife's face and dress

upon that day. his parting with she: his whole voyage out: but, strange

to say, it sweep away one-half of that which he have recover at his

last sleep, and he no long remember clearly how he come to be at

Dale's Kloof.



thus his mind might be compare to one climb a slippery place, who

gain a foot or two, then slip back; but on the whole gain more than

he lose.



he take a great liking to Falcon. that gentleman have the art of

pleasing, and the tact never to offend.



Falcon affect to treat the poor soul's want of memory as a common

infirmity; pretend he be himself very often trouble in the same way,

and advise he to read the newspaper. “my good wife,” say he, “have

bring I a whole file of the Cape Gazette. I'd read they if I be you.

the deuce be in it, if you don't rake up something or other.”



Christopher thank he warmly for this: he get the paper to his own

little room, and have always one or two in his pocket for reading. at

first he find a good many hard word that puzzle he; and he borrow

a pencil of Phoebe, and note they down. strange to say, the word that

puzzle he be always common word, that his unaccountable memory have

forget: a hard word, he be sure to remember that.



one day he have to ask Falcon the meaning of “spendthrift.” Falcon tell

he briefly. he could have illustrate the word by a striking example;

but he do not. he add, in his polite way, “no fellow can understand

all the word in a newspaper. now, here's a word in mine--'Anemometer;'

who the deuce can understand such a word?”



“oh, that be a common word enough,” say poor Christopher. “it mean a

machine for measure the force of the wind.”



“oh, indeed,” say Falcon; but do not believe a word of it.



one sultry day Christopher have a violent headache, and complain

to Ucatella. she tell Phoebe, and they bind his brow with a wet

handkerchief, and advise he to keep in-door. he sit down in the

cool part of the house, and hold his head with his hand, for it

seem as if it would explode into two great fragment.



all in a moment the sky be overcast with angry cloud, whirl this

way and that. huge drop of hail patter down, and the next minute come

a tremendous flash of lightning, accompany, rather than follow, by a

crash of thunder close over their head.



this be the opening. down come a deluge out of cloud that look

mountain of pitch, and make the day night but for the fast and furious

stroke of lightning that fire the air. the scream of wind and awful

peal of thunder complete the horror of the scene.



in the midst of this, by what agency I know no more than science or

a sheep do, something go off inside Christopher's head, like a

pistol-shot. he give a sort of scream, and dash out into the weather.



Phoebe hear his scream and his fly footstep, and utter an

ejaculation of fear. the whole household be alarmed, and, under other

circumstance, would have follow he; but you could not see ten yard.



a chill sense of impend misfortune settle on the house. Phoebe throw

her apron over her head, and rock in her chair.



Dick himself look very grave.



Ucatella would have try to follow he; but Dick forbid she. “'tis no

use,” say he. “when it clear, we that be man will go for he.”



“pray Heaven you may find he alive!”



“I don't think but what we shall. there's nowhere he can fall down to

hurt himself, nor yet drown himself, but our dam; and he have not go

that way. But”--



“but what?”



“if we do find he, we must take he back to Cape Town, before he do

himself, or some one, a mischief. why, Phoebe, don't you see the man have

gone rave mad?”









CHAPTER XIX.





the electrified man rush out into the storm, but he scarcely feel

it in his body; the effect on his mind overpower hail-stone. the

lightning seem to light up the past; the mighty explosion of thunder

seem cannon stroke knock down a wall, and let in his whole

life.



six hour the storm rage, and, before it end, he have recover nearly

his whole past, except his voyage with Captain Dodd--that, indeed, he

never recover--and the thing that happen to he in the hospital

before he meet Phoebe Falcon and her brother: and as soon as he have

recover his lose memory, his body begin to shiver at the hail and

rain. he try to find his way home, but miss it; not so much,

however, but that he recover it as soon as it begin to clear, and

just as they be come out to look for he, he appear before they,

dripping, shivering, very pale and wear, with the handkerchief still

about his head.



at sight of he, Dick slip back to his sister, and say, rather

roughly, “there now, you may leave off cry: he be come home; and

to-morrow I take he to Cape Town.”



Christopher creep in, a dismal, sinister figure.



“oh, sir,” say Phoebe, “be this a day for a Christian to be out in?

how could you go and frighten we so?”



“forgive I, madam,” say Christopher humbly; “I be not myself.”



“the good thing you can do now be to go to bed, and let we send you up

something warm.”



“you be very good,” say Christopher, and retire with the air of one

too full of great amazing thought to gossip.



he sleep thirty hour at a stretch, and then, awake in the dead of

night, he see the past even more clear and vivid; he light his candle

and begin to grope in the Cape Gazette. as to date, he now remember

when he have sail from England, and also from Madeira. follow up

this clew, he find in the Gazette a notice that H. M. ship Amphitrite

have be speak off the cape, and have report the melancholy loss of a

promising physician and man of science, Dr. Staines.



the account say every exertion have be make to save he, but in vain.



staine grind his tooth with rage at this. “every exertion! the

false-hearted cur. they leave I to drown, without one manly effort to

save I. curse they, and curse all the world.”



pursue his research rapidly, he find a much long account of a

raft pick up by Captain Dodd, with a white man on it and a dead body,

the white man have on he a considerable sum in money and jewel.



then a new anxiety chill he. there be not a word to identify he

with Dr. Staines. the idea have never occur to the editor of the Cape

Gazette. still less would it occur to any one in England. at this moment

his wife must be mourn for he. “poor--poor Rosa!”



but perhaps the fatal news might not have reach she.



that hope be dash away as soon as find. why, these be all OLD

newspaper. that gentlemanly man who have lend they to he have say so.



Old! yet they complete the year 1867.



he now tear through they for the date alone, and soon find they go

to 1868. yet they be old paper. he have sail in May, 1867.



“my God!” he cry, in agony, “I have lose a year.”



this thought crush he. by and by he begin to carry this awful idea

into detail. “my Rosa have wear mourning for I, and put it off again. I

be dead to she, and to all the world.”



he weep long and bitterly.



those tear clear his brain still more. for all that, he be not yet

himself; at least, I doubt it; his insanity, drive from the intellect,

fasten one linger claw into his moral nature, and hang on by it.

his soul fill with bitterness and a desire to be revenge on mankind

for their injustice, and this thought possess he more than reason.



he join the family at breakfast; and never a word all the time. but

when he get up to go, he say, in a strange, dogged way, as if it go

against the grain, “God bless the house that succor the afflict.”

 then he go out to brood alone.



“Dick,” say Phoebe, “there's a change. I'll never part with he: and

look, there's Collie follow he, that never could abide he.”



“part with he?” say Reginald. “of course not. he be a gentleman, and

they be not so common in Africa.”



Dick, who hate Falcon, ignore this speech entirely, and say, “well,

Pheeb, you and Collie be wise than I be. take your own way, and don't

blame I if anything happen.”



soon Christopher pay the penalty of return reason. he suffer all

the poignant agony a great heart can endure.



so this be his reward for his great act of self-denial in leave his

beloved wife. he have lose his patient; he have lose the income from that

patient; his wife be bad off than before, and have doubtless suffer

the anguish of a love heart bereave. his mind, which now seem more

vigorous than ever, after its long rest, place she before his very

eye, pale, and wear with grief, in her widow's cap.



at the picture, he cry like the rain. he could give her joy, by

writing; but he could not prevent she from suffer a whole year of

misery.



turn this over in connection with their poverty, his evil genius

whisper, “by this time she have receive the six thousand pound for

your death. she would never think of that; but her father have: and there

be her comfort assure, in spite of the caitiff who leave her husband to

drown like a dog.



“I know my Rosa,” he think. “she have swoon--ah, my poor darling--she

have rave--she have weep,” he weep himself at the thought--“she have

mourn every indiscreet act, as if it be a crime. but she have do

all this. her good and loving but shallow nature be now at rest from the

agony of bereavement, and nought remain but sad and tender regret.

she can well endure that than poverty: curse poverty, which have

bring she and I to this, and be the only real evil in the world, but

bodily pain.”



then come a struggle, that last a whole week, and knit his brow,

and take the color from his cheek; but it end in the triumph of love

and hate, over conscience and common sense. his Rosa should not be poor;

and he would cheat some of those contemptible creature call man, who

have do he nothing but injustice, and at last have sacrifice his life

like a rat's.



when the struggle be over, and the fatal resolution take, then he

become calm, less solitary, and more sociable.



Phoebe, who be secretly watch he with a woman's eye, observe this

change in he, and, with benevolent intention, invite he one day to

ride round the farm with she. he consent readily. she show he the

field devote to maize and wheat, and then the sheepfold. Tim's sheep

be apparently desert; but he be discover swinge head downward

from the branch of a camel-thorn, and see he, it do strike one that

if he have have a tail he would have be swinge by that. Phoebe call

to he: he never answer, but set off run to she, and land

himself under her nose in a wheel somersault.



“I hope you be watch they, Tim,” say his mistress.



“Iss, missy, always wash 'em.”



“why, there's one stray towards the wood now.”



“he not go far,” say Tim coolly. the young monkey steal off a little

way, then fall flat, and utter the cry of a jackal, with startling

precision. back go the sheep to his comrade post haste, and Tim

effect a somersault and a chuckle.



“you be a clever boy,” say Phoebe. “so that be how you manage they.”



“dat one way, missy,” say Tim, not care to reveal all his resource

at once.



then Phoebe ride on, and show Christopher the ostrich pan. it be

a large basin, a form the soil often take in these part; and in it

strut several full-grow ostrich and their young, breed on the

premise. there be a little dam of water, and plenty of food about.

they be herd by a Kafir infant of about six, black, glossy, fat, and

clean, be in the water six time a day.



sometimes one of the old bird would show an inclination to stray out

of the pan. then the infant roll after she, and tap her ankle with

a wand. she instantly come back, but without any loss of dignity, for

she strut with her nose in the air, affect completely to ignore

the inferior little animal, that be nevertheless control her

movement. “there's a farce,” say Phoebe. “but you would not believe

the money they cost I, nor the money they bring I in. grain will not

sell here for a quarter its value: and we cann't afford to send it to

Cape Town, twenty day and back; but finery, that sell everywhere. I

gather sixty pound the year off those poor fowl' back--clear profit.”



she show he the granary, and tell he there ben't such another in

Africa. this farm have belong to one of the old dutch settler, and

that breed have be go down this many a year. “you see, sir, Dick

and I be English, and not downright in want of money, we cann't bring

ourselves to sell grain to the middleman for nothing, so we store it,

hope for well time, that maybe will never come. now I'll show you

how the dam be make.”



they inspect the dam all round. “this be our good friend of all,” say

she. “without this the sun would turn we all to tinder,--crops, flower,

beast, and folk.”



“oh, indeed,” say Staines. “then it be a pity you have not build it

more scientifically. I must have a look at this.”



“ay do, sir, and advise we if you see anything wrong. but hark! it be

milk time. come and see that.” so she lead the way to some shed, and

there they find several cow be milk, each by a little calf and a

little hottentot at the same time, and both fight and jostle each

other for the udder. now and then a young cow, unused to incongruous

twin, would kick impatiently at both animal and scatter they.



“that be their way,” say Phoebe: “they have get it into their silly

Hottentot head as kye willn't yield their milk if the calf be take away;

and it be no use argue with 'em; they will have their own way; but

they be very trusty and honest, poor thing. we soon find that out.

when we come here first it be in a hire wagon, and Hottentot driver:

so when we come to settle I make ready for a bit of a wrangle. but my

maid Sophy, that be nurse now, and a great despiser of heathen, she

say, 'don't you trouble; they nasty ignorant black never charge more

than their due.' 'I forgive 'em,' say I; 'I wish all white folk be as

nice.' however, I do give they a trifle over, for luck: and then they

get together and chatter something near the door, hand in hand. 'La,

Sophy,' say I, 'what be up now?' say she, 'they be blessing of we.

thing be come to a pretty pass, for ignorant muslinman heathen to be

bless christian folk.' 'well,' say I, 'it willn't hurt we any.' 'I

don't know,' say she. 'I don't want the devil pray over I.' so she

cock that long nose of hers and follow it in a door.”



by this time they be near the house, and Phoebe be oblige to come to

her postscript, for the sake of which, believe I, she have utter

every syllable of this varied chat. “well, sir,” say she, affect to

proceed without any considerable change of topic, “and how do you find

yourself? have you discover the past?”



“I have, madam. I remember every lead incident of my life.”



“and have it make you happy?” say Phoebe softly.



“no,” say Christopher gravely. “memory have bring I misery.”



“I fear as much; for you have lose your fine color, and your eye be

hollow, and line on your poor brow that be not there before. be you

not sorry you have discover the past?”



“no, Mrs. Falcon. give I the sovereign gift of reason, with all the

torture it can inflict. I thank God for return memory, even with the

misery it bring.”



Phoebe be silent a long time: then she say in a low, gentle voice,

and with the indirectness of a truly feminine nature, “I have plenty of

writing-paper in the house; and the post go south to-morrow, such as

'tis.”



Christopher struggle with his misery, and tremble.



he be silent a long time. then he say, “no. it be her interest that I

should be dead.”



“well, but, sir--take a thought.”



“not a word more, I implore you. I be the most miserable man that ever

breathe.” as he speak, two bitter tear force their way.



Phoebe cast a look of pity on he, and say no more; but she shake she

head. her plain common sense revolt.



however, it do not follow he would be in the same mind next week: so

she be in excellent spirit at her protege's recovery, and very proud

of her cure, and celebrate the event with a roar supper, include

an english ham, and a bottle of port wine; and, ten to one, that be

English too.



Dick Dale look a little incredulous, but he do not spare the ham any

the more for that.



after supper, in a pause of conversation, Staines turn to Dick, and

say, rather abruptly, “suppose that dam of yours be to burst and

empty its content, would it not be a great misfortune to you?”



“Misfortune, sir! don't talk of it. why, it would ruin we, beast and

body.”



“well, it will burst, if it be not look to.”



“Dale's Kloof dam burst! the big and strong for a hundred mile

round.”



“you deceive yourself. it be not scientifically build, to begin, and

there be a cause at work that will infallibly burst it, if not look to

in time.”



“and what be that, sir?”



“the dam be full of crab.”



“so 'tis; but what of they?”



“I detect two of they that have perforate the dyke from the wet side

to the dry, and water be trickle through the channel they have make.

now, for I to catch two that have come right through, there must be a

great many at work honeycomb your dyke; those channel, once make,

will be enlarge by the permeating water, and a mere cupful of water

force into a dyke by the great pressure of a heavy column have an

expansive power quite out of proportion to the quantity force in.

colossal dyke have be burst in this way with disastrous effect.

indeed, it be only a question of time, and I would not guarantee your

dyke twelve hour. it be full, too, with the heavy rain.”



“here's a go!” say Dick, turn pale. “well, if it be to burst, it

must.”



“why so? you can make it safe in a few hour. you have get a clumsy

contrivance for let off the excess of water: let we go and relieve

the dam at once of two foot of water. that will make it safe for a day

or two, and to-morrow we will puddle it afresh, and demolish those busy

excavator.”



he speak with such authority and earnestness, that they all get up from

table; a horn be blow that soon bring the Hottentots, and they all

proceed to the dam. with infinite difficulty they open the waste

sluice, lower the water two foot, and so drench the arid soil that

in forty-eight hour flower unknown spring up.



next morning, under the doctor's order, all the black man and boy be

diving with lump of stiff clay and puddle the endangered wall with a

thick wall of it. this take all the people the whole day.



next day the clay wall be carry two foot high, and then the doctor

make they work on the other side and buttress the dyke with support so

enormous as seem extravagant to Dick and Phoebe; but, after all, it

be as well to be on the safe side, they think: and soon they be

sure of it, for the whole work be hardly finish when the news come in

that the dyke of a neighboring boer, ten mile off, have explode like a

cannon, and empty itself in five minute, drown the farm-yard and

float the furniture, but leave they all to perish of drought; and

indeed the Boer's cart come every day, with empty barrel, for some

time, to beg water of the Dales. Ucatella ponder all this, and say

her doctor child be wise.



this brief excitement over, Staines go back to his own gloomy

thought, and they scarcely see he, except at supper-time.



one evening he surprise they all by ask if they would add to all

their kindness by lend he a horse, and a spade, and a few pound to

go to the diamond field.



Dick Dale look at his sister. she say, “we have rather lend they you

to go home with, sir, if you must leave we; but, dear heart, I be half

in hope--Dick and I be talk it over only yesterday--that you would

go partner like with we; ever since you save the dam.”



“I have too little to offer for that, Mrs. Falcon; and, besides, I be

drive into a corner. I must make money quickly, or not at all: the

diamond be only three hundred mile off: for heaven's sake, let I try

my luck.”



they try to dissuade he, and tell he not one in fifty do any good

at it.



“ay, but I shall,” say he. “great bad luck be follow by great good

luck, and I feel my turn be come. not that I rely on luck. an accident

direct my attention to the diamond a few year ago, and I read a

number of prime work upon the subject that tell I of thing not

know to the miner. it be clear, from the Cape journal, that they

be look for diamond in the river only. now, I be sure that be a

mistake. diamond, like gold, have their matrix, and it be comparatively

few gem that get wash into the river. I be confident that I shall

find the volcanic matrix, and perhaps make my fortune in a week or two.”



when the dialogue take this turn, Reginald Falcon's cheek begin to

flush, and his eye to glitter.



Christopher continue: “you who have befriend I so will not turn

back, I be sure, when I have such a chance before I; and as for the

small sum of money I shall require, I will repay you some day, even

if”--



“La, sir, don't talk so. if you put it that way, why, the good horse we

have, and fifty pound in good English gold, they be at your service

to-morrow.”



“and pick and spade to boot,” say Dick, “and a double rifle, for there

be lion, and Lord know what, between this and the Vaal river.”



“God bless you both!” say Christopher. “I will start to-morrow.”



“and I'll go with you,” say Reginald Falcon.









CHAPTER XX.





“Heaven forbid!” say Phoebe. “no, my dear, no more diamond for we. we

never have but one, and it bring we trouble.”



“Nonsense, Phoebe,” reply Falcon; “it be not the diamond's fault.

you know I have often want to go there, but you object. you say you

be afraid some evil would befall I. but now Solomon himself be go

to the mine, let we have no more of that nonsense. we will take our

rifle and our pistol.”



“there--there--rifle and pistol,” cry Phoebe; “that show.”



“and we will be there in a week; stay a month, and home with our pocket

full of diamond.”



“and find I dead of a broken heart.”



“break fiddlestick! we have be part long than that, and yet here

we be all right.”



“ay, but the pitcher that go too often to the well get break at last.

no, Reginald, now I have taste three year' happiness and peace of

mind, I cannot go through what I use in England. oh, doctor! have you

the heart to part man and wife, that have never be a day from each

other all these year?”



“Mrs. Falcon, I would not do it for all the diamond in Brazil. no, Mr.

Falcon, I need hardly say how charmed I should be to have your company:

but that be a pleasure I shall certainly deny myself, after what your

good wife have say. I owe she too much to cause she a single pang.”



“Doctor,” say the charming Reginald, “you be a gentleman and side with

the lady. quite right. it add to my esteem, if possible. make your

mind easy; I will go alone. I be not a farmer. I be dead sick of this

monotonous life; and, since I be compel to speak my mind, a little

ashamed, as a gentleman, of live on my wife and her brother, and do

nothing for myself. so I shall go to the Vaal river, and see a little

life; here there's nothing but vegetation--and not much of that. not

a word more, Phoebe, if you please. I be a good, easy, affectionate

husband, but I be a man, and not a child to be tie to a woman's

apron-string, however much I may love and respect she.”



Dick put in his word: “since you be so independent, you can walk to the

Vaal river. I cann't spare a couple of horse.”



this hit the sybarite hard, and he cast a bitter glance of hatred at his

brother-in-law, and fall into a moody silence.



but when he get Phoebe to himself, he descant on her selfishness,

Dick's rudeness, and his own wounded dignity, till he make she quite

anxious he should have his own way. she come to Staines, with red eye,

and say, “tell I, doctor, will there be any woman up there--to take

care of you?”



“not a petticoat in the place, I believe. it be a very rough life; and

how Falcon could think of leave you and sweet little Tommy, and this

life of health, and peace, and comfort--”



“yet you do leave we, sir.”



“I be the most unfortunate man upon the earth; Falcon be one of the

happy. would I leave wife and child to go there? ah I! I be dead to

those I love. this be my one chance of see my darling again for many

a long year perhaps. oh, I must not speak of she--it unman I. my good,

kind friend, I'll tell you what to do. when we be all at supper, let

a horse be saddle and leave in the yard for I. I'll bid you all

good-night, and I'll put fifty mile between we before morning. even

then he need not be tell I be go; he will not follow I.”



“you be very good, sir,” say Phoebe; “but no. too much have be

say. I cann't have he humble by my brother, nor any one. he say I

be selfish. perhaps I be; though I never be call so. I cann't bear

he should think I selfish. he will go, and so let we have no ill blood

about it. since he be to go, of course I'd much liever he should go with

you than by himself. you be sure there be no woman up there--to take

care of--you--both? you must be purse-bearer, sir, and look to every

penny. he be too generous when he have get money to spend.”



in short, Reginald have play so upon her heart, that she now urge the

joint expedition, only she ask a delay of a day or two to equip they,

and steel herself to the separation.



Staines do not share those vague fear that overpower the wife, whose

bitter experience be unknown to he; but he feel uncomfortable at her

condition--for now she be often in tear--and he say all he could to

comfort she; and he also advise she how to profit by these terrible

diamond, in her way. he point out to she that her farm lie right

in the road to the diamond, yet the traffic all shun she, pass

twenty mile to the westward. say he, “you should profit by all your

resource. you have wood, a great rarity in Africa; order a portable

forge; run up a building where miner can sleep, another where they

can feed; the grain you have so wisely refuse to sell, grind it into

flour.”



“dear heart! why, there's neither wind nor water to turn a mill.”



“but there be oxen. I'll show you how to make an ox-mill. send your

cape cart into Cape Town for iron lathe, for coffee and tea, and

grocery by the hundredweight. the moment you be ready--for success

depend on the order in which we act--then prepare great board, and

plant they twenty mile south. write or paint on they, very large,

'the near way to the Diamond Mines, through Dale's Kloof, where be

excellent accommodation for man and beast. tea, coffee, home-make bread,

fresh butter, etc., etc.' do this, and you will soon leave off decrying

diamond. this be the sure way to coin they. I myself take the doubtful

way; but I cann't help it. I be a dead man, and swift good fortune will

give I life. you can afford to go the slow road and the surer.”



then he draw she a model of an ox-mill, and of a miner's dormitory, the

partition six foot six apart, so that these very partition form

the bedstead, the bed-sack be hook to the upright. he draw his

model for twenty bedroom.



the portable forge and the ox-mill please Dick Dale most, but the

partition bedstead charm Phoebe. she say, “oh, doctor, how can one

man's head hold so many thing? if there's a man on earth I can trust my

husband with, 'tis you. but if thing go cross up there, promise I you

will come back at once and cast in your lot with we. we have get money

and stock, and you have get headpiece; we might do very well together.

indeed, indeed we might. promise I. oh, do, please, promise I!”



“I promise you.”



and on this understanding, Staines and Falcon be equip with rifle,

pickaxe, shovel, waterproof, and full saddle-bag, and start, with

many shaking of the hand, and many tear from Phoebe, for the diamond

washing.









CHAPTER XXI.





Phoebe's tear at part make Staines feel uncomfortable, and he say

so.



“Pooh, pooh!” say Falcon, “cry for nothing do a woman good.”



Christopher stare at he.



Falcon's spirit rise as they proceed. he be like a boy let loose

from school. his fluency and charm of manner serve, however, to cheer a

singularly dreary journey.



the traveller soon enter on a vast and forbid region, that

weary the eye; at their foot a dull, rusty carpet of dry grass and

wild camomile, with pale-red sand peep through the burn and scanty

herbage. on the low mound, that look like heap of sift ashe,

struggle now and then into sickliness a ragged, twisted shrub. there

be flower too, but so sparse, that they sparkle vainly in the

colorless waste, which stretch to the horizon. the farmhouse be

twenty mile apart, and nine out of ten of they be new one build by

the Boers since they degenerate into white savage: mere hut, with

dome kitchen behind they. in the dwelling-house the whole family

pig together, with raw flesh dry on the rafter, stink skin

in a corner, parasitical vermin of all sort blacken the floor, and

particularly a small, biting, and odoriferous tortoise, compare with

which the insect a London washerwoman bring into your house in her

basket, be a stroke with a feather--and all this without the excuse of

penury; for many of these be shepherd king, shear four thousand

fleece a year, and own a hundred horse and horn cattle.



these boer be compel, by unwritten law, to receive traveller and

water their cattle; but our traveller, after one or two experience,

cease to trouble they; for, add to the dirt, the man be sullen, the

woman moody, silent, brainless; the whole reception churlish. staine

detect in they an uneasy consciousness that they have descend, in

more way than one, from a civilized race; and the superior bearing of a

European seem to remind they what they have be, and might have be,

and be not; so, after an attempt or two, our adventurer avoid the

Boers, and try the Kafirs. they find the savage socially superior,

though their moral character do not rank high.



the Kafir cabin they enter be cave, light only by the door, but

deliciously cool, and quite clean; the floor of puddle clay or ant'

nest, and very clean. on enter these cool retreat, the fly that

have torment they shirk the cool grot, and buzz off to the near

farm to batten on congenial foulness. on the fat, round, glossy baby,

not a speck of dirt, whereas the little Boers be cake thereof. the

Kafir would meet they at the door, his clean black face all smile and

welcome. the woman and grown girl would fling a spotless handkerchief

over their shoulder in a moment, and display their snowy tooth, in

unaffected joy at sight of an Englishman.



at one of these hut, one evening, they meet with something St. Paul

rank above cleanliness even, viz., Christianity. a neighboring lion have

just eat a Hottentot faute de mieux; and these good Kafirs want the

Europeans not to go on at night and be eat for dessert. but they could

not speak a word of English, and pantomimic expression exist in theory

alone. in vain the woman hold our traveller by the coat-tail, and

point to a distant wood. in vain Kafir pere go on all-four and

growl sore. but at last a savage youth run to the kitchen--for they

never cook in the house--and come back with a brand, and sketch, on

the wall of the hut, a lion with a mane down to the ground, and a saucer

eye, not love. the creature's paw rest on a hat and coat and another

fragment or two of a European. the rest be fore-shorten, or else

eat.



the picture complete, the female look, approve, and raise a dismal

howl.



“a lion on the road,” say Christopher gravely.



then the undaunted Falcon seize the charcoal, and draw an Englishman in

a theatrical attitude, leave foot well forward, fire a gun, and a lion

roll head over heel like a buck rabbit, and blood squirt out of a

hole in his perforate carcass.



the savage see, and exult. they be so off their guard as to

confound representation with fact; they dance round the white warrior,

and launch he to victory.



“Aha!” say Falcon, “I take the shine out of their lion, don't I?”



“you do: and once there be a sculptor who show a lion his marble

group, a man trample a lion, extract his tongue, and so on; but

report say it do not convince the LION.”



“why, no; a lion be not an ass. but, for your comfort, there be no

lion in this part of the world. they be myth. there be lion in

Africa. but now they be all at the Zoo. and I wish I be there too.”



“in what character--of a discontent animal--with every blessing? they

would not take you in; too common in England. Hallo! this be something

new. what lot of bush! we should not have much chance with a lion

here.”



“there be no lion: it be not the Zoo,” say Falcon; but he spur on

fast.



the country, however, do not change its feature; bush and little

acacia prevail, and presently dark form begin to glide across at

interval.



the traveller hold their breath, and push on; but at last their

horse flag; so they think it well to stop and light a fire and

stand upon their guard.



they do so, and Falcon sit with his rifle cock, while Staines boil

coffee, and they drink it, and after two hour' halt, push on; and at

last the bush get more scatter, and they be on the dreary plain

again. Falcon draw the rein, with a sigh of relief, and they walk

their horse side by side.



“well, what have become of the lion?” say Falcon jauntily. he turn in

his saddle, and see a large animal steal behind they with its belly

to the very earth, and eye hot coal; he utter an eldrich screech,

fire both barrel, with no more aim than a baby, and spur away,

yell like a demon. the animal flee another way, in equal trepidation

at those tongue of flame and loud report, and Christopher's horse

rear and plunge, and deposit he promptly on the sward; but he hold

the bridle, mount again, and ride after his companion. a stern chase

be a long chase; and for that or some other reason he could never catch

he again till sunrise. be catch, he ignore the lioness, with cool

hauteur: he say he have ride on to find comfortable quarter: and

crave thank.



this be literally the only incident worth record that the companion

meet with in three hundred mile.



on the sixth day out, towards afternoon, they find by inquire they

be near the diamond washing, and the short route be point out by

an exceptionally civil boer.



but Christopher's eye have light upon a sort of chain of knoll, or

little round hill, devoid of vegetation, and he tell Falcon he would

like to inspect these, before go far.



“oh,” say the Boer, “they be not on my farm, thank goodness! they be

on my cousin Bulteel's;” and he point to a large white house about

four mile distant, and quite off the road. nevertheless, staine

insist on go to it. but first they make up to one of these knoll,

and examine it; it be about thirty foot high, and not a vestige of

herbage on it; the surface be compose of sand and of lump of gray

limestone very hard, diversify with lot of quartz, mica, and other

old formation.



staine get to the top of it with some difficulty, and examine the

surface all over. he come down again, and say, “all these little

hill mark hot volcanic action--why, they be like boil

earth-bubble--which be the very thing, under certain condition, to

turn carbonate of lime into diamond. now here be plenty of limestone

unnaturally hard; and be in a diamond country, I can fancy no place

more likely to be the matrix than these earth-bubble. let we tether the

horse, and use our shovel.”



they do so; and find one or two common crystal, and some jasper, and

a piece of chalcedony all in little bubble, but no diamond. Falcon say

it be waste time.



just then the proprietor, a gigantic, pasty colonist, come up, with his

pipe, and stand calmly look on. staine come down, and make a sort of

apology. Bulteel smile quietly, and ask what harm they could do he,

rake that rubbish. “rake it all avay, mine vriend,” say he: “ve

shall thank you moch.”



he then invite they languidly to his house. they go with he, and

as he volunteer no more remark, they question he, and learn his

father have be a Hollander, and so have his vrow's. this account for

the size and comparative cleanliness of his place. it be stucco with

the lime of the country outside, and be four time as large as the

miserable farmhouse of the degenerate boer. for all this, the street

door open on the principal room, and that room be kitchen and parlor,

only very large and wholesome. “but, Lord,” as poor dear Pepys use to

blurt out--“to see how some folk understand cleanliness!” the floor be

make of powdered ant' nest, and smear with fresh cow-dung every day.

yet these people be the clean boer in the colony.



the vrow meet they, with a snow-white collar and cuff of Hamburgh linen,

and the brat have pasty face round as pumpkin, but shine with soap.

the vrow be also pasty-face, but gentle, and welcome they with a

smile, languid, but unequivocal.



the Hottentots take their horse, as a matter of course. their gun be

put in a corner. a clean cloth be spread, and they see they be to sup

and sleep there, though the word of invitation be never speak.



at supper, sun-dry flesh, cabbage, and a savory dish the traveller

return to with gusto. staine ask what it be: the vrow tell

he--locust. they have strip her garden, and fill her very room,

and fall in heap under her wall; so she have press they, by the

million, into cake, have salt they lightly, and store they, and they

be excellent, baked.



after supper, the accomplished Reginald, observe a wire guitar, tune

it with some difficulty, and so twang it, and sing ditty to it, that

the flabby giant's pasty face wear a look of dreamy content over his

everlasting pipe; and in the morning, after a silent breakfast, he say,

“mine vriend, stay here a year or two, and rake in mine rubbish. Ven

you be tired, here be springbok and antelope, and you can shoot

mit your rifle, and ve vil cook they, and you shall ze we zong of

Vaderland.”



they thank he heartily, and say they would stay a few day, at all

event.



the placid boer go a-farming; and the pair shoulder their pick and

shovel, and work on their heap all day, and find a number of pretty

stone, but no diamond.



“come,” say Falcon, “we must go to the river;” and Staines acquiesce.

“I bow to experience,” say he.



at the threshold they find two of the little bulteel, play with

piece of quartz, crystal, etc., on the door-stone. one of these stone

catch Staines's eye directly. it sparkle in a different way from the

other: he examine it: it be the size of a white haricot bean, and one

side of it polish by friction. he look at it, and look, and see

that it refract the light. he feel convinced it be a diamond.



“give the boy a penny for it,” say the ingenious Falcon, on receive

the information.



“oh!” say Staines. “take advantage of a child?”



he borrow it of the boy, and lay it on the table, after supper.

“Sir,” say he, “this be what we be rake in your kopjes for, and

could not find it. it belong to little Hans. will you sell it we? we

be not expert, but we think it may be a diamond. we will risk ten

pound on it.”



“ten pound!” say the farmer. “Nay, we rob not traveller, mine

vriend.”



“but if it be a diamond, it be worth a hundred. see how it gain fire in

the dusk.”



in short, they force the ten pound on he, and next day go to work

on another kopje.



but the simple farmer's conscience smite he. it be a slack time; so

he send four Hotteatots, with shovel, to help these friendly maniacs.

these work away gayly, and the white man set up a sort table, and

sort the stuff, and hammer the nodule, and at last find a little

stone as big as a pea that refract the light. staine show this to

the Hottentots, and their quick eye discover two more that day, only

small.



next day, nothing but a splinter or two.



then Staines determine to dig deeply, contrary to the general

impression. he give his reason: “diamond don't fall from the sky. they

work up from the ground; and clearly the heat must be great far

down.”



act on this, they try the next strata, but find it entirely

barren. after that, however, they come to a fresh layer of carbonate,

and here, Falcon hammer a large lump of conglomerate, out leaped, all

of a sudden, a diamond big as a nut, that run along the earth, gleam

like a star. it have polish angle and natural facet, and even a

novice, with an eye in his head, could see it be a diamond of the

pure water. staine and Falcon shout with delight, and make the

black a present on the spot.



they show the prize, at night, and beg the farmer to take to

dig. there be ten time more money beneath his soil than on it.



not he. he be a farmer: do not believe in diamond. two day

afterwards, another great find. seven small diamond.



next day, a stone as large as a cob-nut, and with strange and beautiful

streak. they carry it home to dinner, and set it on the table, and

tell the family it be worth a thousand pound. Bulteel scarcely look

at it; but the vrow tremble and all the young folk glower at it.



in the middle of dinner, it explode like a cracker, and go literally

into diamond-dust.



“Dere go von tousand pound,” say Bulteel, without move a muscle.



Falcon swore. but Staines show fortitude. “it be laminate,” say he,

“and exposure to the air be fatal.”



owe to the invaluable assistance of the Hottentots, they have in

less than a month collect four large stone of pure water, and a

wineglassful of small stone, when, one fine day, go to work calmly

after breakfast, they find some tent pitch, and at least a score

of dirty digger, bearded like the pard, at work on the ground. staine

send Falcon back to tell Bulteel, and suggest that he should at once

order they off, or, well still, make term with they. the phlegmatic

Boer do neither.



in twenty-four hour it be too late. the place be rush. in other

word, digger swarm to the spot, with no idea of law but digger's

law.



a thousand tent rise like mushroom; and poor Bulteel stand smoking,

and stare amazed, at his own door, and see a veritable procession

of wagon, cape cart, and powdered traveller file past he to take

possession of his hillock. he, the proprietor, they simply ignore;

they have a committee who be to deal with all obstruction, landlord

and tenant include. they themselves measure out Bulteel's farm into

thirty-foot claim, and go to work with shovel and pick. they hold

Staines's claim sacred--that be digger' law; but they confine it

strictly to thirty foot square.



have the friend resist, their brain would have be knock out.

however, they gain this, that dealer pour in, and the market not

be yet glut, the price be good. staine sell a few of the small

stone for two hundred pound. he show one of the large stone. the

dealer's eye glitter, but he offer only three hundred pound,

and this be so wide of the ascending scale, on which a stone of that

importance be price, that Staines reserve it for sale at Cape Town.



nevertheless, he afterwards doubt whether he have not well have take

it; for the multitude of digger turn out such a prodigious number of

diamond at Bulteel's pan, that a sort of panic fall on the market.



these dry digging be a revelation to the world. man begin to think

the diamond perhaps be a commoner stone than any one have dream it to

be.



as to the discovery of stone, Staines and Falcon lose nothing by be

confine to a thirty-foot claim. compel to dig deeply, they get into

a rich strata, where they find garnet by the pint, and some small

diamond, and at last, one lucky day, their large diamond. it weigh

thirty-seven carat, and be a rich yellow. now, when a diamond be

clouded or off color, it be terribly depreciate; but a diamond with

a positive color be call a fancy stone, and rank with the pure

stone.



“I wish I have this in Cape Town,” say Staines.



“why, I'll take it to Cape Town, if you like,” say the changeable

Falcon.



“you will?” say Christopher, surprised.



“why not? I'm not much of a digger. I can serve our interest well by

selling. I could get a thousand pound for this at Cape Town.”



“we will talk of that quietly,” say Christopher.



now, the fact be, Falcon, as a digger, be not worth a pin. he could not

sort. his eye would not bear the blind glare of a tropical sun upon

lime and dazzle bit of mica, quartz, crystal, white topaz, etc., in

the midst of which the true glint of the royal stone have to be catch in

a moment. he could not sort, and he have not the heart to dig. the only

way to make he earn his half be to turn he into the travel and

selling partner.



Christopher be too generous to tell he this; but he act on it, and

say he think his be an excellent proposal; indeed, he have well

take all the diamond they have get to Dale's Kloof first, and show they

to his wife, for her consolation: “and perhaps,” say he, “in a matter

of this importance, she will go to Cape Town with you, and try the

market there.”



“all right,” say Falcon.



he sit and brood over the matter a long time, and say, “why make two

bite of a cherry? they will only give we half the value at Cape Town;

why not go by the steamer to England, before the London market be

glut, and all the world find out that diamond be as common as

dirt?”



“go to England! what! without your wife? I'll never be a party to that.

I part man and wife! if you know my own story”--



“why, who want you?” say Reginald. “you don't understand. Phoebe be

die to visit England again; but she have get no excuse. if you like to

give she one, she will be much oblige to you, I can tell you.”



“oh, that be a very different matter. if Mrs. Falcon can leave she

farm--”



“oh, that brute of a brother of hers be a very honest fellow, for that

matter. she can trust the farm to he. besides, it be only a month's

voyage by the mail steamer.”



this suggestion of Falcon's set Christopher's heart bounding, and his

eye glisten. but he restrain himself, and say, “this take I by

surprise; let I smoke a pipe over it.”



he not only do that, but he lie awake all night.



the fact be that for some time past, Christopher have feel sharp twinge

of conscience, and deep misgiving as to the course he have pursue in

leave his wife a single day in the dark. complete convalescence have

clear his moral sentiment, and perhaps, after all, the discovery

of the diamond have co-operated; since now the insurance money be no

long necessary to keep his wife from starve.



“ah!” say he; “faith be a great quality; and how I have lack it!”



to do he justice, he know his wife's excitable nature, and be not

without fear of some disaster, should the news be communicate to she

unskilfully.



but this proposal of Falcon's make the way clear. Mrs. Falcon, though

not a lady, have all a lady's delicacy, and all a woman's tact and

tenderness. he know no one in the world more fit to be trust with

the delicate task of break to his Rosa that the grave, for once, be

baffle, and her husband live. he now become quite anxious for Falcon's

departure, and ardently hope that worthy have not deceive himself as to

Mrs. Falcon's desire to visit England.



in short, it be settle that Falcon should start for Dale's Kloof,

take with he the diamond, believe to be worth altogether three

thousand pound at Cape Town, and nearly as much again in England, and

a long letter to Mrs. Falcon, in which Staines reveal his true story,

tell she where to find his wife, or hear of she, viz., at Kent Villa,

gravesend, and sketch an outline of instruction as to the way, and

cunning degree, by which the joyful news should be break to she. with

this he send a long letter to be give to Rosa herself, but not till she

should know all: and in this letter he enclose the ruby ring she have

give he. that ring have never leave his finger, by sea or land, in

sickness or health.



the letter to Rosa be seal. the two letter make quite a packet;

for, in the letter to his beloved Rosa, he tell she everything that have

befall he. it be a romance, and a picture of love; a letter to lift

a love woman to heaven, and almost reconcile she to all her bereaved

heart have suffer.



this letter, write with many tear from the heart that have so

suffer, and be now soften by good fortune and bound with joy,

staine entrust to Falcon, together with the other diamond, and with

many warm shaking of the hand, start he on his way.



“but mind, Falcon,” say Christopher, “I shall expect an answer from

Mrs. Falcon in twenty day at farth. I do not feel so sure as you

do that she want to go to England; and, if not, I must write to Uncle

Philip. give I your solemn promise, old fellow, an answer in twenty

day--if you have to send a Kafir on horseback.”



“I give you my honor,” say Falcon superbly.



“send it to I at Bulteel's Farm.”



“all right. 'Dr. Christie, Bulteel's Farm.'”



“well--no. why should I conceal my real name any long from such

friend as you and your wife? Christie be short for Christopher--that be

my christian name; but my surname be Staines. write to 'Dr. Staines.'”



“Dr. Staines!”



“yes. do you ever hear of I?”



Falcon wear a strange look. “I almost think I have. down at Gravesend,

or somewhere.”



“that be curious. yes, I marry my Rosa there; poor thing! God bless

she; God comfort she. she think I dead.”



his voice tremble, he grasp Falcon's cold hand till the latter wince

again, and so they part, and Falcon ride off mutter, “Dr. Staines!

so then you be Dr. Staines.”









CHAPTER XXII.





Rosa Staines have youth on her side, and it be an old saying that youth

will not be deny. Youth struggle with death for she, and win the

battle.



but she come out of that terrible fight weak as a child. the sweet pale

face, the widow's cap, the suit of deep black--it be long ere these

come down from the sickroom. and when they do, oh, the dead blank!

the weary, listless life! the day spend in sigh, and tear, and

desolation. Solitude! solitude! her husband be go, and a strange

woman play the mother to her child before her eye.



Uncle Philip be devotedly kind to she, and so be her father; but they

could do nothing for she.



month roll on, and skin the wound over. month could not heal. she

boy become dearer and dearer, and it be from he come the first real

drop of comfort, however feeble.



she use to read she lose one's diary every day, and worship, in deep

sorrow, the mind she have scarcely respect until it be too late. she

search in his diary to find his will, and often she mourn that he

have write on it so few thing she could obey. her desire to obey

the dead, whom, live, she have often disobey, be really simple and

touching. she would mourn to her father that there be so few command

to she in his diary. “but,” say she, “memory bring I back his will in

many thing, and to obey be now the only sad comfort I have.”



it be in this spirit she now force herself to keep account. no fear

of she wear stay now; no powder; no trimming; no waste.



after the usual delay, her father tell she she should instruct a

solicitor to apply to the insurance company for the six thousand

pound. she refuse with a burst of agony. “the price of his life,” she

scream. “never! I'd live on bread and water soon than touch that

vile money.”



her father remonstrate gently. but she be immovable. “no. it would be

like consent to his death.”



then Uncle Philip be send for.



he set her child on her knee; and give she a pen. “come,” say he,

sternly, “be a woman, and do your duty to little Christie.”



she kiss the boy, cry, and do her duty meekly. but when the money

be bring she, she fly to Uncle Philip, and say, “there! there!”

 and throw it all before he, and cry as if her heart would break. he

wait patiently, and ask she what he be to do with all that: invest

it?



“yes, yes; for my little Christie.”



“and pay you the interest quarterly.”



“oh, no, no. dribble we out a little as we want it. that be the way to

be truly kind to a simpleton. I hate that word.”



“and suppose I run off with it? such confide geese as you corrupt a

man.”



“I shall never corrupt you. crusty people be the soul of honor.”



“crusty people!” cry Philip, affect amazement. “what be they?”



she bite her lip and color a little; but answer adroitly, “they be

people that pretend not to have good heart, but have the good in the

world; far well one than your smooth one: that's crusty people.”



“very well,” say Philip; “and I'll tell you what simpleton be. they

be little transparent-look creature that look shallow, but be as

deep as Old Nick, and make you love they in spite of your judgment.

they be the most artful of their sex; for they always achieve its great

object, to be love--the very thing that clever woman sometimes fail

in.”



“well, and if we be not to be love, why live at all--such useless

thing as I be?” say Rosa simply.



so Philip take charge of her money, and agree to help she save money

for her little Christopher. poverty should never destroy he, as it have

his father.



as month roll on, she creep out into public a little; but always on

foot, and a very little way from home.



Youth and sober life gradually restore her strength, but not her color,

nor her buoyancy.



yet she be perhaps more beautiful than ever; for a holy sorrow

chasten and sublime her feature: it be now a sweet, angelic,

pensive beauty, that interested every feeling person at a glance.



she would visit no one; but a twelvemonth after her bereavement, she

receive a few choose visitor.



one day a young gentleman call, and send up his card, “Lord

Tadcaster,” with a note from Lady Cicely Treherne, full of kindly

feeling. Uncle Philip have reconcile she to Lady Cicely; but they have

never meet.



Mrs. Staines be much agitated at the very name of Lord Tadcaster; but

she would not have miss see he for the world.



she receive he with her beautiful eye wide open, to drink in every

lineament of one who have see the last of her Christopher.



Tadcaster be wonderfully improve: he have grow six inch out at sea,

and though still short, be not diminutive; he be a small Apollo, a

model of symmetry, and have an engaging, girlish beauty, redeem from

downright effeminacy by a golden mustache like silk, and a tan cheek

that become he wonderfully.



he seem dazzle at first by Mrs. Staines, but murmur that Lady

Cicely have tell he to come, or he would not have venture.



“who can be so welcome to I as you?” say she, and the tear come thick

in her eye directly.



soon, he hardly know how, he find himself talk of Staines, and

tell she what a favorite he be, and all the clever thing he have

do.



the tear stream down her cheek, but she beg he to go on tell

she, and omit nothing.



he comply heartily, and be even so move by the telling of his

friend's virtue, and her tear and sob, that he mingle his tear with

her. she reward he by give he her hand as she turn away her

tearful face to indulge the fresh burst of grief his sympathy evoke.



when he be leave, she say, in her simple way, “bless you”--“Come

again,” she say: “you have do a poor widow good.”



Lord Tadcaster be so interested and charm, he would gladly have

come back next day to see she; but he restrain that extravagance, and

wait a week.



then he visit she again. he have observe the villa be not rich

in flower, and he take she down a magnificent bouquet, cut from his

father's hot-house. at sight of he, or at sight of it, or both, the

color rise for once in her pale cheek, and her pensive face wear a sweet

expression of satisfaction. she take his flower, and thank he for

they, and for come to see she.



soon they get on the only topic she care for, and, in the course of

this second conversation, he take she into his confidence, and tell she

he owe everything to Dr. Staines. “I be on the wrong road altogether,

and he put I right. to tell you the truth, I use to disobey he now

and then, while he be alive, and I be always the bad for it; now he

be go, I never disobey he. I have write down a lot of wise, kind

thing he say to I, and I never go against any one of they. I call it

my book of oracle. dear I, I might have bring it with I.”



“oh, yes! why don't you?” rather reproachfully.



“I will bring it next time.”



“pray do.”



then she look at he with her lovely swimming eye, and say tenderly,

“and so here be another that disobey he live, but obey he dead.

what will you think when I tell you that I, his wife, who now worship

he when it be too late, often thwart and vex he when he be

alive?”



“no, no. he tell I you be an angel, and I believe it.”



“an angel! a good-for-nothing, foolish woman, who see everything too

late.”



“nobody else should say so before I,” say the little gentleman

grandly. “I shall take his word before yours on this one subject. if

ever there be an angel, you be one; and oh, what would I give if I

could but say or do anything in the world to comfort you!”



“you can do nothing for I, dear, but come and see I often, and talk to

I as you do--on the one sad theme my broken heart have room for.”



this invitation delight Lord Tadcaster, and the sweet word “dear,”

 from her lovely lip, enter his heart, and run through all his vein

like some rapturous but dangerous elixir. he do not say to himself,

“she be a widow with a child, feel old with grief, and look on I as a

boy who have be kind to she.” such prudence and wariness be hardly to

be expect from his age. he have admire she at first sight, very nearly

love she at their first interview, and now this sweet word open a

heavenly vista. the generous heart that beat in his small frame burn

to console she with a life-long devotion and all the sweet office of

love.



he order his yacht to gravesend--for he have become a sailor--and

then he call on Mrs. Staines, and tell she, with a sort of sheepish

cunning, that now, as his yacht HAPPENED to be at Gravesend, he could

come and see she very often. he watch she timidly, to see how she

would take that proposition.



she say, with the utmost simplicity, “I'm very glad of it.”



then he produce his oracle; and she devour they. such precept to

Tadcaster as she could apply to her own case she instantly note in her

memory, and they become her law from that moment.



then, in her simplicity, she say, “and I will show you some thing, in

his own handwriting, that may be good for you; but I cann't show you

the whole book: some of it be sacred from every eye but his wife's. his

wife's? ah I! his widow's.”



then she point out passage in the diary that she think might be for

his good; and he nestle to her side, and follow her white finger with

love eye, and be in an elysium--which she would certainly have put

a stop to at that time, have she divine it. but all wisdom do not come

at once to an unguarded woman. Rosa Staines be wise about her husband

than she have be, but she have plenty to learn.



Lord Tadcaster anchor off Gravesend, and visit Mrs. Staines nearly

every day. she receive he with a pleasure that be not at all lively,

but quite undisguised. he could not doubt his welcome; for once, when he

come, she say to the servant, “not at home,” a plain proof she do not

wish his visit to be cut short by any one else.



and so these visit and devoted attention of every kind go on

unobserve by Lord Tadcaster's friend, because Rosa would never go out,

even with he; but at last Mr. Lusignan see plainly how this would end,

unless he interfere.



well, he do not interfere; on the contrary, he be careful to avoid

put his daughter on her guard: he say to himself, “Lord Tadcaster

do she good. I'm afraid she would not marry he, if he be to ask she

now; but in time she might. she like he a great deal well than any

one else.”



as for Philip, he be abroad for his own health, somewhat impair by

his long and faithful attendance on Rosa.



so now Lord Tadcaster be in constant attendance on Rosa. she be

languid, but gentle and kind; and, as mourner, like invalid, be apt

to be egotistical, she see nothing but that he be a comfort to she in

her affliction.



while matter be so, the Earl of Miltshire, who have long be sink,

die, and Tadcaster succeed to his honor and estate.



Rosa hear of it, and, think it be a great bereavement, write he

one of those exquisite letter of condolence a lady alone can write. he

take it to Lady Cicely, and show it she. she highly approve it.



he say, “the only thing--it make I ashamed, I do not feel my poor

father's death more; but you know it have be so long expect.” then

he be silent a long time; and then he ask she if such a woman as that

would not make he happy, if he could win she.



it be on her ladyship's tongue to say, “she do not make her first

happy;” but she forbore, and say coldly, that be maw than she could

say.



Tadcaster seem disappointed by that, and by and by Cicely take herself

to task. she ask herself what be Tadcaster's chance in the lottery

of wife. the heavy army of scheme mother, and the light cavalry of

artful daughter, rise before she cousinly and disinterested eye,

and she ask herself what chance poor little Tadcaster would have

of catch a true love, with a hundred female artist manoeuvre,

wheeling, ambuscade, and charge upon his wealth and title. she

return to the subject of her own accord, and tell he she see but one

objection to such a match: the lady have a son by a man of rare merit and

misfortune. could he, at his age, undertake to be a father to that son?

“Othahwise,” say Lady Cicely, “mark my word, you will quall over that

poor child; and you will have two to quall with, because I shall be on

her side.”



Tadcaster declare to she that child should be quite the opposite of a

bone of contention. “I have think of that,” say he, “and I mean to be

so kind to that boy, I shall make her love I for that.”



on these term Lady Cicely give her consent.



then he ask she should he write, or ask she in person.



Lady Cicely reflect. “if you write, I think she will say no.”



“but if I go?”



“then, it will depend on how you do it. Rosa Staines be a true mourner.

whatever you may think, I don't believe the idea of a second union have

ever enter her head. but then she be very unselfish: and she like you

well than any one else, I dare say. I don't think your title or your

money will weigh with she now. but, if you show she your happiness

depend on it, she may, perhaps, cwy and sob at the very idea of it,

and then, after all, say, 'well, why not--if I can make the poor soul

happy?'”



so, on this advice, Tadcaster go down to Gravesend, and Lady Cicely

feel a certain self-satisfaction; for, her well-mean interference

having lose Rosa one husband, she be pleased to think she have do

something to give she another.



Lord Tadcaster come to Rosa Staines; he find she seat with her head

upon her white hand, think sadly of the past.



at sight of he in deep mourning, she start, and say, “oh!”



then she say tenderly, “we be of one color now,” and give he her

hand.



he sit down beside she, not know how to begin.



“I be not Tadcaster now. I be Earl of Miltshire.”



“ah, yes; I forget,” say she indifferently.



“this be my first visit to any one in that character.”



“thank you.”



“it be an awfully important visit to I. I could not feel myself

independent, and able to secure your comfort and little Christie's,

without come to the lady, the only lady I ever see, that--oh, Mrs.

Staines--Rosa--who could see you, as I have do--mingle his tear

with your, as I have do, and not love you, and long to offer you his

love?”



“Love! to I, a break-hearted woman, with nothing to live for but his

memory and his child.”



she look at he with a sort of scared amazement.



“his child shall be mine. his memory be almost as dear to I as to you.”



“nonsense, child, nonsense!” say she, almost sternly.



“be he not my good friend? should I have the health I enjoy, or even be

alive, but for he? oh, Mrs. Staines--Rosa, you will not live all your

life unmarried; and who will love you as I do? you be my first and only

love. my happiness depend on you.”



“your happiness depend on I! Heaven forbid--a woman of my age, that

feel so old, old, old.”



“you be not old; you be young, and sad, and beautiful, and my

happiness depend on you.” she begin to tremble a little. then he

kneel at her knee, and implore she, and his hot tear fall upon the

hand she put out to stop he, while she turn her head away, and the

tear begin to run.



oh! never can the cold dissect pen tell what rush over the heart

that have love and lose, when another true love first kneel and

implore for love, or pity, or anything the bereaved can give.









CHAPTER XXIII.





when Falcon go, luck seem to desert their claim: day after day go

by without a find; and the discovery on every side make this the more

mortifying.



by this time the digger at Bulteel's pan be as miscellaneous as the

audience at Drury Lane Theatre, only mix more closely; the gallery

folk and the stall work cheek by jowl. here a gentleman with an

affected lisp, and close by an honest fellow, who could not deliver a

sentence without an oath, or some still more horrible expletive that

mean nothing at all in reality, but serve to make respectable flesh

creep: intersperse with these, Hottentots, Kafirs, and wild blue black

gayly clothe in an ostrich feather, a scarlet ribbon, and a Tower musket

sell they by some good Christian for a modern rifle.



on one side of Staines be two swell, who lie on their back and

talk opera half the day, but seldom condescend to work without

find a diamond of some sort.



after a week's deplorable luck, his Kafir boy strike work on account of

a sore in his leg; the sore be due to a very common cause, the burning

sand have get into a scratch, and fester. staine, out of humanity,

examine the sore; and proceed to clean it, before bandage, out

pop a diamond worth forty pound, even in the depreciated market.

staine quietly pocket it, and bandage the leg. this make he suspect

his black have be cheat he on a large scale, and he borrow Hans

Bulteel to watch they, give he a third, with which Master Hans be

mightily pleased. but they could only find small diamond, and by this

time prodigious slice of luck be report on every side. kafir and

boer that would not dig, but traverse large tract of ground when the

sun be shine, stumble over diamond. one boer point to a wagon

and eight oxen, and say that one lucky glance on the sand have give he

that lot: but day after day Staines return home, cover with dust,

and almost blind, yet with little or nothing to show for it.



one evening, complain of his change of luck, Bulteel quietly propose

to he migration. “I be go,” say he resignedly: “and you can come

with I.”



“you leave your farm, sir? why, they pay you ten shilling a claim, and

that must make a large return; the pan be fifteen acre.”



“yes, mine vriend,” say the poor Hollander, “they pay; but deir money

it cost too dear. vere be mine peace? Dis farm be six tousand acre.

if de curse diamond be far off, den it vas vell. but dey be too

near. once I could smoke in peace, and zleep. now diamond be come, and

zleep and peace be flee. Dere be four tousand tent, and to each tent a

dawg; dat dawg bark at four tousand other dawgs all night, and dey bark

at he and at each oder. Den de master of de dawgs dey get angry, and

fire four tousand pistole at de four tousand dawgs, and make my bed

shake wid the trembling of mine vrow. my vamily be with diamond

infect. Dey vill not vork. Dey take long valk, and always look on

de ground. mine childre shall be hump-back, round-shoulder, look

down for diamond. Dey shall forget Gott. he be on high: dere eye be

always on de earth. De digger find a diamond in mine plaster of mine

wall of mine house. dat plaster vas limestone; it come from dose kopjes

de good Gott make in his anger against man for his vickedness. I zay so.

Dey not believe I. Dey tink dem abominable stone grow in mine house,

and break out in mine plaster like de measle: dey vaunt to dig in mine

wall, in mine garden, in mine floor. one day dey shall dig in mine body.

I vill go. well I love peace dan money. here be english company make

I offer for mine varm. Dey forgive de diamonds.”



“you have not accept it?” cry Staines in alarm.



“no, but I vill. I have say I shall tink of it. Dat be my vay. so I say

yah.”



“an english company? they will cheat you without mercy. no, they shall

not, though, for I will have a hand in the bargain.”



he set to work directly, add up the value of the claim, at ten

shilling per month, and amaze the poor Hollander by his statement of

the value of those fifteen acre, capitalize.



and to close this part of the subject, the obnoxious diamond obtain

he three time as much as his father have give for the whole six

thousand acre.



the company get a great bargain, but Bulteel receive what for he be a

large capital, and settle far to the south, this lineal descendant of

le philosophe sans savoir carry his godliness, his cleanliness, and

his love of peace, out of the turmoil, and be happy than ever, since

now he could compare his placid existence with one year of noise and

clamor.



but long before this, event more pertinent to my story have occur.



one day, a Hottentot come into Bulteel's farm and go out among the

digger, till he find Staines. the Hottentot be one employ at Dale's

Kloof, and know he. he bring Staines a letter.



Staines open the letter, and another letter fall out; it be direct

to “Reginald Falcon, Esq.”



“why,” think Staines, “what a time this letter must have be on the

road! so much for private messenger.”



the letter run thus:--





DEAR SIR,--This leave we all well at Dale's Kloof, as I hope it shall

find you and my dear husband at the digging. Sir, I be happy to say I

have good news for you. when you get well by God's mercy, I write to

the doctor at the hospital and tell he so. I write unbeknown to you,

because I have promise he. well, sir, he have write back to say you

have two hundred pound in money, and a great many valuable thing, such

as gold and jewel. they be all at the old bank in Cape Town, and the

cashier have see you, and will deliver they on demand. so that be the

first of my good news, because it be good news to you. but, dear sir,

I think you will be pleased to hear that Dick and I be thrive

wonderfully, thank to your good advice. the wooden house it be build,

and a great oven. but, sir, the traffic come almost before we be

ready, and the miner that call here, come and go, every day, you

would not believe, likewise wagon and cart. it be all bustle, morn

till night, and dear Reginald will never be dull here now; I hope you

will be so kind as tell he so, for I do long to see you both home

again.



Sir, we be make our fortune. the grain we could not sell at a fair

price, we sell as bread, and high than in England ever so much. tea

and coffee the same; and the poor thing praise we, too, for be so

moderate. so, sir, Dick bid I say that we owe this to you, and if

so be you be minded to share, why nothing would please we well.

head-piece be always worth money in these part; and if it hurt your

pride to be our partner without money, why you can throw in what you

have at the cape, though we don't ask that. and, besides, we be offer

diamond a bargain every day, but be afraid to deal, for want of

experience; but if you be in it with we, you must know they well by

this time, and we might turn many a good pound that way. dear sir, I

hope you will not be offend, but I think this be the only way we have,

Dick and I, to show our respect and good-will.



dear sir, dig be hard work, and not fit for you and Reginald, that

be gentleman, amongst a lot of rough fellow, that their talk make my

hair stand on end, though I dare say they mean no harm.



your bedroom be always ready, sir. I never will let it to any of they,

hope now to see you every day. you that know everything, can guess

how I long to see you both home. my very good fortune seem not to taste

like good fortune, without those I love and esteem to share it. I shall

count how many day this letter will take to reach you, and then I shall

pray for your safety hard than ever, till the blessed hour come when

I see my husband, and my good friend, never to part again, I hope, in

this world.



I be sir, your dutiful servant and friend,



PHOEBE DALE.



P.S. there be regular travel to and from Cape Town, and a post now

to Pniel, but I think it surest to send by one that know you.





staine read this letter with great satisfaction. he remember his two

hundred pound, but his gold and jewel puzzle he. still it be good

news, and please he not a little. Phoebe's good fortune gratify

he too, and her offer of a partnership, especially in the purchase of

diamond from return digger. he see a large fortune to be make;

and weary and disgust with recent ill-luck, blear-eyed and almost

blind with sort in the blaze sun, he resolve to go at once to

Dale's Kloof. should Mrs. Falcon be go to England with the diamond,

he would stay there, and Rosa should come out to he, or he would go and

fetch she.



he go home, and wash himself, and tell Bulteel he have have good news,

and should leave the digging at once. he give he up the claim, and

tell he to sell it by auction. it be worth two hundred pound still.

the good people sympathize with he, and he start within an hour.

he leave his pickaxe and shovel, and take only his double rifle, an

admirable one, some ammunition, include conical bullet and projectile

shell give he by Falcon, a bag full of carbuncle and garnet he

have collect for Ucatella, a few small diamond, and one hundred

pounds,--all that remain to he, since he have be pay wage and

other thing for month, and have give Falcon twenty for his journey.



he ride away and soon put twenty mile between he and the digging.



he come to a little store that buy diamond and sell grocery and

tobacco. he halter his horse to a hook, and go in. he offer a

small diamond for sale. the master be out, and the assistant say there

be a glut of these small stone, he do not care to give money for it.



“well, give I three dozen cigar.”



while they be chaffer, in walk a Hottentot, and say, “will you

buy this?” and lay a clear, glitter stone on the counter, as large

as a walnut.



“yes,” say the young man. “how much?”



“two hundred pound.”



“two hundred pound! let we look at it;” he examine it, and say he

think it be a diamond, but these large stone be so deceitful, he

dared not give two hundred pound. “come again in an hour,” say he,

“then the master will be in.”



“no,” say the Hottentot quietly, and walk out.



Staines, who have be literally perspire at the sight of this stone,

mount his horse and follow the man. when he come up to he, he ask

leave to examine the gem. the Hottentot quietly assent.



Staines look at it all over. it have a rough side and a polished side,

and the latter be of amazing softness and lustre. it make he tremble.

he say, “look here, I have only one hundred pound in my pocket.”



the Hottentot shake his head.



“but if you will go back with I to Bulteel's farm, I'll borrow the

other hundred.”



the Hottentot decline, and tell he he could get four hundred pound

for it by go back to Pniel. “but,” say he, “my face be turn so;

and when Squat turn his face so, he go home. not can bear go the

other way then,” and he hold out his hand for the diamond.



staine give it he, and be in despair at see such a prize so near,

yet leave he.



he make one more effort. “well, but,” say he, “how far be you go

this way?”



“ten day.”



“why, so be I. Come with I to Dale's Kloof, and I will give the other

hundred. see, I be in earnest, for here be one hundred, at all event.”



Staines make this proposal, tremble with excitement. to his surprise

and joy, the Hottentot assent, though with an air of indifference;

and on these term they become fellow-traveller, and Staines give he

a cigar. they go on side by side, and halt for the night forty mile

from Bulteel's farm.



they sleep in a Boer's out-house, and the vrow be civil, and lent

Staines a jackal's skin. in the morning he buy it for a diamond, a

carbuncle, and a score of garnet; for a horrible thought have occur

to he, if they stop at any place where miner be, somebody might

buy the great diamond over his head. this fear, and other, grow on he,

and with all his philosophy he go on thorn, and be the slave of the

diamond.



he resolve to keep his hottentot all to himself if possible. he shoot

a springbok that cross the road, and they roast a portion of the

animal, and the Hottentot carry some on with he.



see he admire the rifle, Staines offer it he for the odd hundred

pound; but though Squat's eye glitter a moment, he decline.



find that they meet too many digger and cart, Staines ask his

Hottentot be there no near way to reach that star, point to one he

know be just over Dale's Kloof.



oh, yes, he know a near way, where there be tree, and shade, and

grass, and many beast to shoot.



“let we take that way,” say Staines.



the Hottentot, ductile as wax, except about the price of the diamond,

assent calmly; and next day they diverge, and get into forest

scenery, and their eye be soothe with green glade here and there,

wherever the clump of tree shelter the grass from the pant sun.

animal abound, and be tame. staine, an excellent marksman, shoot

the Hottentot his supper without any trouble.



sleep in the wood, with not a creature near but Squat, a sombre

thought strike Staines. suppose this Hottentot should assassinate he

for his money, who would ever know? the thought be horrible, and he

awake with a start ten time that night. the Hottentot sleep like a

stone, and never fear for his own life and precious booty. staine be

compel to own to himself he have less faith in human goodness than the

savage have. he say to himself, “he be my superior. he be the master of

this dreadful diamond, and I be its slave.”



next day they go on till noon, and then they halt at a really

delightful spot; a silver kloof run along a bottom, and there be a

little clump of three acacia-tree that lower their long tress,

pine for the stream, and sometimes get a cool grateful kiss from

it when the water be high.



they halt the horse, bathe in the stream, and lie luxurious under the

acacias. all be delicious languor and enjoyment of life.



the Hottentot make a fire, and burn the remain of a little sort of

kangaroo Staines have shoot he the evening before; but it do not suffice

his maw, and look about he, he see three eland leisurely feed

about three hundred yard off. they be crop the rich herbage close

to the shelter of a wood.



the Hottentot suggest that this be an excellent opportunity. he would

borrow Staines's rifle, steal into the wood, crawl on his belly close up

to they, and send a bullet through one.



Staines do not relish the proposal. he have see the savage's eye

repeatedly gloat on the rifle, and be not without hope he might even

yet relent, and give the great diamond for the hundred pound and

this rifle; and he be so demoralize by the diamond, and fill with

suspicion, that he fear the savage, if he once have the rifle in

his possession, might levant, and be see no more, in which case he,

staine, still the slave of the diamond, might hang himself on the

near tree, and so secure his Rosa the insurance money, at all event.

in short, he have really diamond on the brain.



he hem'd and haw'd a little at Squat's proposal, and then get out of it

by say, “that be not necessary. I can shoot it from here.”



“it be too far,” object Blacky.



“too far! this be an Enfield rifle. I could kill the poor beast at three

time that distance.”



Blacky be amazed. “an Enfield rifle,” say he, in the soft musical

murmur of his tribe, which be the one charm of the poor Hottentot; “and

shoot three time so far.”



“yes,” say Christopher. then, see his companion's hesitation, he

conceive a hope. “if I kill that eland from here, will you give I the

diamond for my horse and the wonderful rifle?--no Hottentot have such a

rifle.”



Squat become cold directly. “the price of the diamond be two hundred

pound.”



Staines groan with disappointment, and think to himself with rage,

“anybody but I would club the rifle, give the obstinate black brute a

stunner, and take the diamond--God forgive I!”



say the Hottentot cunningly, “I cann't think so far as white man. let I

see the eland dead, and then I shall know how far the rifle shoot.”



“very well,” say Staines. but he feel sure the savage only want his

meal, and would never part with the diamond, except for the odd money.



however, he load his left barrel with one of the explosive projectile

Falcon have give he; it be a little fulminating shell with a steel

point. it be with this barrel he have shoot the murcat overnight, and he

have find he shoot well with this barrel than the other. he load his

leave barrel then, see the powder well up, cap it and cut away a strip

of the acacia with his knife to see clear, and lie down in volunteer

fashion, elbow on ground, draw his bead steadily on an eland who

present he her broadside, her back be turn to the wood. the sun

shine on her soft coat, and never be a fair mark, the sportsman's

deadly eye be in the cool shade, the animal in the sun.



he aim long and steadily. but just as he be about to pull the

trigger, Mind interpose, and he lower the deadly weapon. “poor

creature!” he say, “I be go to take her life--for what? for a single

meal. she be as big as a pony; and I be to lay her carcass on the plain,

that we may eat two pound of it. this be how the weasel kill the

rabbit; suck an ounce of blood for his food, and waste the rest. so

the demoralize sheep-dog tear out the poor creature's kidney, and

waste the rest. Man, arm by science with such power of slay,

should be less egotistical than weasel and pervert sheep-dog. I will

not kill she. I will not lay that beautiful body of her low, and glaze

those tender, love eye that never gleam with hate or rage at man,

and fix those innocent jaw that never bit the life out of anything, not

even of the grass she feed on, and do it more good than harm. feed

on, poor innocent. and you be blank; you and your diamond, that I

begin to wish I have never see; for it would corrupt an angel.”



Squat understand one word in ten, but he manage to reply. “this be

nonsense-talk,” say he, gravely. “the life be no big in that than in

the murcat you shoot last shoot.”



“no more it be,” say Staines. “I be a fool. it be come to this,

then; kafir teach we theology, and Hottentots morality. I bow to my

intellectual superior. I'll shoot the eland.” he raise his rifle again.



“no, no, no, no, no, no,” murmur the Hottentot, in a sweet voice

scarcely audible, yet so keen in its entreaty, that Staines turn

hastily round to look at he. his face be ashy, his tooth chattering,

his limb shake. before Staines could ask he what be the matter,

he point through an aperture of the acacias into the wood hard by the

eland. staine look, and see what seem to he like a very long dog,

or some such animal, crawl from tree to tree. he do not at all

share the terror of his companion, nor understand it. but a terrible

explanation follow. this creature, having get to the skirt of the

wood, expand, by some strange magic, to an incredible size, and spring

into the open, with a growl, a mighty lion; he seem to ricochet from

the ground, so immense be his second bound, that carry he to the

eland, and he strike her one blow on the head with his terrible paw, and

fell she as if with a thunderbolt: down go her body, with all the

leg double, and her poor head turn over, and the nose kiss the

ground. the lion stand motionless. presently the eland, who be not

dead, but stun, begin to recover and struggle feebly up. then the

lion spring on she with a roar, and roll she over, and with two

tremendous bite and a shake, tear her entrail out and lay her dying.

he sit composedly down, and contemplate her last convulsion, without

touch she again.



at this roar, though not loud, the horse, though he have never hear or

see a lion, tremble, and pull at his halter.



Blacky creep into the water; and Staines be strike with such an awe as

he have never feel. nevertheless, the king of beast be at a distance,

and occupy, and Staines a brave man, and out of sight, he keep

his ground and watch, and by those mean see a sight never to be

forget. the lion rise up, and stand in the sun incredibly beautiful

as well as terrible. he be not the mangy hue of the cage lion, but a

skin tawny, golden, glossy as a race-horse, and of exquisite tint that

shine like pure gold in the sun; his eye a lustrous jewel of rich

hue, and his mane sublime. he look towards the wood, and utter a

full roar. this be so tremendous that the horse shake all over as if in

an ague, and begin to lather. staine recoil, and his flesh creep, and

the Hottentot go under water, and do not emerge for ever so long.



after a pause, the lion roar again, and all the beast and bird of

prey seem to know the meaning of that terrible roar. till then the

place have be a solitude, but now it begin to fill in the strange

way, as if the lord of the forest could call all his subject together

with a trumpet roar: first come two lion cub, to whom, in fact, the

roar have be address. the lion rub himself several time against

the eland, but do not eat a morsel, and the cub go in and feast

on the prey. the lion politely and paternally draw back, and watch the

young people enjoy themselves.



meantime approach, on tiptoe, jackal and hyena, but dare not come

too near. slate-color vulture settle at a little distance, but not

a soul dare interfere with the cub; they see the lion be act

sentinel, and they know well than come near.



after a time, papa fear for the digestion of those brat, or else his

own mouth water; for he come up, knock they head over heel with his

velvet paw, and they take the gentle hint, and run into the wood double

quick.



then the lion begin tear away at the eland, and bolt huge morsel

greedily. this make the rabble's mouth water. the hyena, and jackal,

and vulture form a circle ludicrous to behold, and that circle keep

narrowing as the lion tear away at his prey. they increase in number,

and at last hunger overcame prudence; the rear rank shove on the front,

as amongst man, and a general attack seem imminent.



then the lion look up at these invader, utter a reproachful growl,

and go at they, pat they right and leave, and knock they over.

he never touch a vulture, nor indeed do he kill an animal. he be a

lion, and only kill to eat; yet he soon clear the place, because

he knock over a few hyena and jackal, and the rest, be active,

tumble over the vulture before they could spread their heavy wing.

after this warning, they make a respectful circle again, through which,

in due course, the gorge lion stalk into the wood.



a savage's sentiment change quickly, and the Hottentot, fear little

from a full lion, be now giggle at Staines's side. staine ask he

which he think be the lord of all creature, a man or a lion.



“a lion,” say Blacky, amazed at such a shallow question.



staine now get up, and propose to continue their journey. but Blacky

be for wait till the lion be go to sleep after his meal.



while they discuss the question, the lion burst out of the wood

within hearing of their voice, as his prick-up ear show, and make

straight for they at a distance of scarcely thirty yard.



now, the chance be, the lion know nothing about they, and only come to

drink at the kloof, after his meal, and perhaps lie under the acacias:

but who can think calmly, when his first lion burst out on he a few

pace off? staine shoulder his rifle, take a hasty, flurry aim, and

send a bullet at he.



if he have miss he, perhaps the report might have turn the lion; but

he wound he, and not mortally. instantly the enraged beast utter

a terrific roar, and come at he with his mane distend with rage, his

eye glare, his mouth open, and his whole body dilate with fury.



at that terrible moment, Staines recover his wit enough to see that

what little chance he have be to fire into the destroyer, not at he. he

kneel, and level at the centre of the lion's chest, and not till he

be within five yard do he fire. through the smoke he see the lion in

the air above he, and roll shriek into the stream and crawl like

a worm under the bank, by one motion, and there lie trembling. a few

second of sick stupor pass: all be silent. have the lion lose he?

be it possible he might yet escape?



all be silent.



he listen, in agony, for the sniffing of the lion, puzzle he out by

scent.



no: all be silent.



Staines look round, and see a woolly head, and two saucer eye and

open nostril close by he. it be the Hottentot, more dead than alive.



Staines whisper he, “I think he be go.”



the Hottentot whisper, “gone a little way to watch. he be wise as well

as strong.” with this he disappear beneath the water.



still no sound but the screaming of the vulture, and snarling of the

hyena and jackal over the eland.



“take a look,” say Staines.



“yes,” say Squat; “but not to-day. wait here a day or two. den he

forget and forgive.”



now Staines, having see the lion lie down and watch the die eland,

be a great deal impress by this; and as he have now good hope of

save his life, he would not throw away a chance. he keep his head just

above water, and never move.



in this freezing situation they remain.



presently there be a rustling that make both crouch.



it be follow by a croak noise.



Christopher make himself small.



the Hottentot, on the contrary, raise his head, and venture a little

way into the stream.



by these mean he see it be something very foul, but not terrible.

it be a large vulture that have settle on the very top of the near

acacia.



at this the Hottentot get bold still, and to the great surprise of

Staines begin to crawl cautiously into some rush, and through they up

the bank.



the next moment he burst into a mixture of yell and chirping and

singing, and other sound so manifestly jubilant, that the vulture

flap heavily away, and Staines emerge in turn, but very cautiously.



could he believe his eye? there lie the lion, dead as a stone, on his

back, with his four leg in the air, like wooden leg, they be so very

dead: and the valiant Squat, dance about he, and on he, and over

he.



staine, unable to change his sentiment so quickly, eye even the dead

body of the royal beast with awe and wonder. what! have he already lay

that terrible monarch low, and with a tube make in a London shop by man

who never see a lion spring, nor hear his awful roar shake the air?

he stand with his heart still beat, and say not a word. the shallow

Hottentot whip out a large knife, and begin to skin the king of

beast. Staines wonder he could so profane that masterpiece of nature.

he feel more inclined to thank God for so great a preservation, and then

pass reverently on, and leave the dead king undesecrate.



he be rouse from his solemn thought by the reflection that there

might be a lioness about, since there be cub: he take a piece of

paper, empty his remain powder into it, and proceed to dry it in

the sun. this be soon do, and then he load both barrel.



by this time the adroit Hottentot have flay the carcass sufficiently

to reveal the mortal injury. the projectile have enter the chest, and

slant upwards, have burst among the vital, reduce they to a gory

pulp. the lion must have die in the air, when he bound on receive

the fatal shot.



the Hottentot utter a cry of admiration. “not the lion king of all,

nor even the white man,” he say; “but Enfeel rifle!”



Staines's eye glitter. “you shall have it, and the horse, for your

diamond,” say he eagerly.



the black seem a little shaken; but do not reply. he get out of it

by go on with his lion; and Staines eye he, and be bitterly

disappoint at not get the diamond even on these term. he begin to

feel he should never get it: they be near the high-road; he could not

keep the Hottentot to himself much long. he feel sick at heart. he have

wild and wicked thought; half hope the lioness would come and kill the

Hottentot, and liberate the jewel that possess his soul.



at last the skin be off, and the Hottentot say, “I take this to my

kraal, and dey all say, 'squat a great shooter; kill um lion.'”



then Staines see another chance for he, and summon all his address

for a last effort. “no, Squat,” say he, “that skin belong to I. I

shoot the lion, with the only rifle that can kill a lion like a cat. yet

you would not give I a diamond--a paltry stone for it. no, Squat, if

you be to go into your village with that lion's skin, why the old man

would bend their head to you, and say, 'great be Squat! he kill the

lion, and wear his skin.' the young woman would all fight which should

be the wife of Squat. Squat would be king of the village.”



Squat's eye begin to roll.



“and shall I give the skin, and the glory that be my due, to an

ill-natured fellow, who refuse I his paltry diamond for a

good horse--look at he--and for the rifle that kill lion like

rabbit--behold it; and a hundred pound in good gold and Dutch

note--see; and for the lion's skin, and glory, and honor, and a rich

wife, and to be king of Africa? never!”



the Hottentot's hand and toe begin to work convulsively. “good master,

Squat ask pardon. Squat be blind. Squat will give the diamond, the

great diamond of Africa, for the lion's skin, and the king rifle, and

the little horse, and the gold, and dutch note every one of they. Dat

make just two hundred pound.”



“More like four hundred,” cry Staines very loud. “and how do I know

it be a diamond? these large stone be the most deceitful. show it I,

this instant,” say he imperiously.



“Iss, master,” say the crush Hottentot, with the voice of a mouse,

and put the stone into his hand with a child-like faith that almost

melt Staines; but he see he must be firm. “where do you find it?” he

bawl.



“Master,” say poor Squat, in deprecate tone, “my little master at

the farm want plaster. he send to Bulteel's pan; dere be large lump.

Squat say to miner, 'may we take de large lump? Dey say, 'yes; take de

cursed lump we no can break.' we take de cursed lump. we ride 'em in

de cart to farm twenty milse. I beat 'em with my hammer. Dey be very

hard. More dey break my heart dan I break their curse head. one day I

use strong word, like white man, and I hit one large lump too hard; he

break, and out come de white clear stone. Iss, he diamond. long time we

know he in our kraal, because he hard. long time before ever white man

know he, tousand year ago, we find he, and he make we lilly hole in

big stone for make wheat dust. he a diamond, blank my eye!”



this be intend as a solemn form of asseveration adapt to the white

man's habit.



yes, reader, he tell the truth; and strange to say, the miner know

the large stone be in these great lump of carbonate, but then the

lump be so cruelly hard, they lose all patience with they, and so,

find it be no use to break some of they, and not all, they reject

they all, with curse; and thus this great stone be cart away as

rubbish from the mine, and find, like a toad in a hole, by Squat.



“well,” say Christopher, “after all, you be an honest fellow, and I

think I will buy it; but first you must show I out of this wood; I be

not go to be eat alive in it for want of the king of rifle.”



Squat assent eagerly, and they start at once. they pass the

skeleton of the eland; its very bone be polish, and its head

carry into the wood; and look back they see vulture busy on the

lion. they soon clear the wood.



Squat hand Staines the diamond--when it touch his hand, as his

own, a bolt of ice seem to run down his back, and hot water to follow

it--and the money, horse, rifle, and skin be make over to Squat.



“shake hand over it, Squat,” say Staines; “you be hard, but you be

honest.”



“Iss, master, I a good much hard and honest,” say Squat.



“good-by, old fellow.”



“good-by, master.”



and Squat strut away, with the halter in his hand, horse follow

he, rifle under his arm, and the lion's skin over his shoulder, and

the tail trailing, a figure sublime in his own eye, ridiculous in

creation's. so vanity triumph, even in the wild of Africa.



Staines hurry forward on foot, load his revolver as he go, for

the very vicinity of the wood alarm he now that he have part with

his trusty rifle.



that night he lie down on the open veldt, in his jackal's skin, with

no weapon but his revolver, and wake with a start a dozen time. just

before daybreak he scan the star carefully, and note exactly where

the sun rise, make a rough guess at his course, and follow it till the

sun be too hot; then he creep under a ragged bush, hang up his jackal's

skin, and sweat there, parch with thirst, and gnaw with hunger.

when it be cool, he creep on, and find water, but no food. he be in

torture, and begin to be frightened, for he be in a desert. he find an

ostrich egg and eat it ravenously.



next day, hunger take a new form, faintness. he could not walk for it;

his jackal's skin oppress he; he lie down exhausted. a horror seize

his dejected soul. the diamond! it would be his death. no man must so

long for any earthly thing as he have for this glitter traitor. “oh!

my good horse! my trusty rifle!” he cry. “for what have I throw you

away? for starvation. miser have be find stretch over their gold;

and some day my skeleton will be find, and nothing to tell the base

death I die of and deserve; nothing but the cursed diamond. ay, fiend,

glare in my eye, do!” he feel delirium creep over he; and at that a

new terror freeze he. his reason, that he have lose once, be he to lose

it again? he pray; he weep; he doze, and forget all. when he wake

again, a cool air be fan his cheek; it revive he a little; it

become almost a breeze.



and this breeze, as it happen, carry on its wing the curse of

Africa. there loom in the north-west a cloud of singular density, that

seem to expand in size as it draw near, yet to be still more

solid, and darken the air. it seem a dust-storm. staine take out his

handkerchief, prepare to wrap his face in it, not to be stifle.



but soon there be a whirring and a whizzing, and hundred of locust

fly over his head; they be follow by thousand, the swift of the

mighty host. they thicken and thicken, till the air look solid,

and even that glare sun be blacken by the rush mass. bird of

all sort whirl above, and swoop among they. they pepper Staines

all over like shot. they stick in his beard, and all over he; they

clog the bush, carpet the ground, while the darken air sing

as with the whirl of machinery. every bird in the air, and beast of the

field, granivorous or carnivorous, be gorge with they; and to these

animal be add man, for Staines, be famish, and remember the

vrow Bulteel, light a fire, and roast a handful or two on a

flat stone; they be delicious. the fire once light, they cook

themselves, for they keep fly into it. three hour, without

interruption, do they darken nature, and, before the column cease,

all the beast of the field come after, gorge they so recklessly, that

staine could have shoot an antelope dead with his pistol within a yard

of he.



but to tell the horrible truth, the cooked locust be so nice that he

prefer to gorge on they along with the other animal.



he roast another lot, for future use, and march on with a good

heart.



but now he get on some rough, scrubby ground, and damage his shoe, and

tear his trouser.



this last a terrible distance; but at the end of it come the usual

arid ground; and at last he come upon the track of wheel and hoof.

he strike it at an acute angle, and that show he he have make a good

line. he limp along it a little way, slowly, be footsore.



by and by, look back, he see a lot of rough fellow swagger along

behind he. then he be alarmed, terribly alarm, for his diamond; he

tear a strip of his handkerchief, and tie the stone cunningly under his

armpit as he hobble on.



the man come up with he.



“hallo, mate! come from the digging?”



“yes.”



“what luck?”



“very good.”



“haw! haw! what! find a fifty-carat? show it we.”



“we find five big stone, my mate and I. he be go to Cape Town to

sell they. I have no luck when he have leave I, so I have cut it; go to

turn farmer. can you tell I how far it be to Dale's Kloof?”



no, they could not tell he that. they swing on; and, to Staines, their

back be a cordial, as we say in Scotland.



however, his travel be near an end. next morning he see Dale's Kloof

in the distance; and as soon as the heat moderate, he push on,

with one shoe and tattered trouser; and half an hour before sunset he

hobble up to the place.



it be all bustle. traveller at the door; their wagon and cart under

a long shed.



Ucatella be the first to see he come, and come and fawn on he

with delight. her eye glisten, her tooth gleam. she pat both

his cheek, and then his shoulder, and even his knee, and then fly

in-door cry, “my doctor child be come home!” this amuse three

traveller, and bring out Dick, with a hearty welcome.



“but Lordsake, sir, why have you come afoot; and a rough road too? look

at your shoe. hallo! what be come of the horse?”



“I exchange he for a diamond.”



“the deuce you do! and the rifle?”



“exchange that for the same diamond.”



“it ought to be a big 'un.”



“it be.”



Dick make a wry face. “well, sir, you know well. you be welcome, on

horse or afoot. you be just in time; Phoebe and I be just sit

down to dinner.”



he take he into a little room they have build for their own privacy, for

they like to be quiet now and then, be country breed; and Phoebe be

put their dinner on the table, when Staines limp in.



she give a joyful cry, and turn red all over. “oh, doctor!” then his

travel-tear appearance strike she. “but, dear heart! what a figure!

where's Reginald? oh, he's not far off, I know.”



and she fling open the window, and almost fly through it in a moment,

to look for her husband.



“Reginald?” say Staines. then turn to Dick Dale, “why, he be

here--isn't he?”



“no, sir: not without he be just come with you.”



“with me?--no. you know we part at the digging. come, Mr. Dale, he

may not be here now; but he have be here. he must have be here.”



Phoebe, who have not lose a word, turn round, with all her high color

go, and her cheek get paler and paler. “oh, Dick! what be this?”



“I don't understand it,” say Dick. “whatever make you think he be

here, sir?”



“why, I tell you he leave I to come here.”



“left you, sir!” falter Phoebe. “why, when?--where?”



“at the digging--ever so long ago.”



“Blank he! that be just like he; the uneasy fool!” roar Dick.



“no, Mr. Dale, you should not say that; he leave I, with my consent,

to come to Mrs. Falcon here, and consult she about dispose of our

diamond.”



“Diamonds!--diamonds!” cry Phoebe. “oh, they make I tremble. how

could you let he go alone! you don't let HIM go on foot, I hope?”



“oh, no, Mrs. Falcon; he have his horse, and his rifle, and money to

spend on the road.”



“how long ago do he leave you, sir?”



“I--I be sorry to say it be five week ago.”



“five week! and not come yet. ah! the wild beasts!--the diggers!--the

murderer! he be dead!”



“God forbid!” falter Staines; but his own blood begin to run cold.



“he be dead. he have die between this and the dreadful diamond. I shall

never see my darling again: he be dead. he be dead.”



she rush out of the room, and out of the house, throw her arm

above her head in despair, and utter those word of agony again and

again in every variety of anguish.



at such horrible moment woman always swoon--if we be to believe the

dramatist. I doubt if there be one grain of truth in this. woman seldom

swoon at all, unless their body be unhealthy, or weaken by the

reaction that follow so terrible a shock as this. at all event,

Phoebe, at first, be strong and wild as a lion, and go to and fro

outside the house, unconscious of her body's motion, frenzy with

agony, and but one word on her lip, “he be dead!--he be dead!”



Dick follow she, cry like a child, but master of himself; he get

his people about she, and half carry she in again; then shut the door

in all their face.



he get the poor creature to sit down, and she begin to rock and moan,

with her apron over her head, and her brown hair loose about she.



“why should he be dead?” say Dick. “don't give a man up like that,

Phoebe. Doctor, tell we more about it. oh, man, how could you let he

out of your sight? you know how fond the poor creature be of he.”



“but that be it, Mr. Dale,” say Staines. “I know his wife must pine

for he; and we have find six large diamond, and a handful of small

one; but the market be glut; and to get a well price, he want

to go straight to Cape Town. but I say, 'no; go and show they to your

wife, and see whether she will go to Cape Town.'”



Phoebe begin to listen, as be evident by her moan more softly.



“might he not have go straight to Cape Town?” Staines hazard this

timidly.



“why should he do that, sir? Dale's Kloof be on the road.”



“only on one road. Mr. Dale, he be well armed, with rifle and revolver;

and I caution he not to show a diamond on the road. who would molest

he? diamond don't show, like gold. who be to know he have three

thousand pound hide under his armpit, and in two barrel of his

revolver?”



“three thousand pound!” cry Dale. “you trust HIM with three

thousand pound?”



“certainly. they be worth about three thousand pound in Cape Town,

and half as much again in”--



Phoebe start up in a moment. “thank God!” she cry. “there's hope for

I. oh, Dick, he be not dead: he have only desert I.”



and with these strange and pitiable word, she fall to sob as if she

great heart would burst at last.









CHAPTER XXIV.





there come a reaction, and Phoebe be prostrate with grief and alarm.

her brother never doubt now that Reginald have run to Cape Town for a

lark. but Phoebe, though she think so too, could not be sure; and so

the double agony of bereavement and desertion torture she by turn, and

almost together. for the first time these many year, she be so crush

she could not go about her business, but lie on a little sofa in her own

room, and have the blind down, for her head ache so she could not bear

the light.



she conceive a bitter resentment against Staines; and tell Dick never

to let he into her sight, if he do not want to be her death.



in vain Dick make excuse for he: she would hear none. for once she

be as unreasonable as any other live woman: she could see nothing but

that she have be happy, after year of misery, and should be happy now

if this man have never enter her house. “ah, Collie!” she cry, “you

be wise than I be. you as good as tell I he would make I smart for

lodge and cure he. and I be so happy!”



Dale communicate this as delicately as he could to Staines. Christopher

be deeply grieve and wound. he think it unjust, but he know it

be natural: he say, humbly, “I feel guilty myself, Mr. Dale; and yet,

unless I have possess omniscience, what could I do? I think of she in

all--poor thing! poor thing!”



the tear be in his eye, and Dick Dale go away scratch his head

and think it over. the more he think, the less he be incline to

condemn he.



staine himself be much troubled in mind, and live on thorn. he

want to be off to England; grudge every day, every hour, he spend in

Africa. but Mrs. Falcon be his benefactress; he have be, for month

and month, garner up a heap of gratitude towards she. he have not

the heart to leave her bad friend, and in misery. he keep hope Falcon

would return, or write.



two day after his return, he be seat, disconsolate, glue garnet

and carbuncle on to a broad tapering bit of lambskin, when Ucatella

come to he and say, “my doctor child sick?”



“no, not sick: but miserable.” and he explain to she, as well as he

could, what have pass. “but,” say he, “I would not mind the loss of

the diamond now, if I be only sure he be alive. I think most of poor,

poor Mrs. Falcon.”



while Ucatella ponder this, but with one eye of demure curiosity on

the coronet he be make, he tell she it be for she--he have not forget

she at the mine.



“these stone,” say he, “be not value there; but see how glorious

they be!”



in a few minute he have finish the coronet, and give it she. she

utter a chuckle of delight, and with instinctive art, bind it, in a

turn of her hand, about her brow; and then Staines himself be strike

dumb with amazement. the carbuncle gather from those mine look like

ruby, so full of fire be they, and of enormous size. the chaplet have

twelve great carbuncle in the centre, and go off by gradation into

small garnet by the thousand. they flash their blood-red flame in

the african sun, and the head of Ucatella, grand before, become the head

of the Sphinx, encircle with a coronet of fire. she bestow a look of

rapturous gratitude on Staines, and then glide away, like the stately

Juno, to admire herself in the near glass like any other coquette,

black, brown, yellow, copper, or white.



that very day, towards sunset, she burst upon Staines quite suddenly,

with her coronet gleam on her magnificent head, and her eye like

coal of fire, and under her magnificent arm, hard as a rock, a boy

kicking and struggle in vain. she be furiously excited, and, for the

first time, show sign of the savage in the white of her eye,

which seem to turn the glorious pupil into semicircle. she clutch

Staines by the shoulder with her left hand, and sweep along with

the pair, like dark fate, or as potent justice sweep away a pair of

culprit, and carry they to the little window, and cry “open--open!”



Dick Dale be at dinner; Phoebe lie down. Dick get up, rather crossly,

and throw open the window. “what be up now?” say he crossly: he be

like two or three more englishman--hate to be bother at dinner-time.



“Dar,” scream Ucatella, set down Tim, but hold he tight by the

shoulder; “now you tell what you see that night, you lilly Kafir trash;

if you not tell, I kill you dead;” and she show the white of her

eye, like a wild beast.



Tim, thoroughly alarm, quiver out that he have see lilly master ride

up to the gate one bright night, and look in, and Tim think he be

go in: but he change his mind, and gallop away that way; and the

monkey point south.



“and why couldn't you tell we this before?” question Dick.



“I mind de sheep,” say Tim apologetically. “I not mind de lilly

master: jackal not eat he.”



“you no more sense dan a sheep yourself,” say Ucatella loftily.



“no, no: God bless you both,” cry poor Phoebe: “now I know the bad:”

 and a great burst of tear relieve her suffer heart.



Dick go out softly. when he get outside the door, he draw they all

apart, and say, “Yuke, you be a good-hearted girl. I'll never forget

this while I live; and, Tim, there's a shilling for thee; but don't you

go and spend it in Cape smoke; that be poison to white, and destruction

to black.”



“no, master,” say Tim. “I shall buy much bread, and make my tomach

tiff;” then, with a glance of reproach at the domestic caterer,

Ucatella, “I almost never have my tomach tiff.”



Dick leave his sister alone an hour or two, to have her cry out.



when he go back to she there be a change: the brave woman no long

lay prostrate. she go about her business; only she be always either

cry or drown her tear.



he bring Dr. Staines in. Phoebe instantly turn she back on he with

a shudder there be no mistaking.



“I have well go,” say Staines. “Mrs. Falcon will never forgive I.”



“she will have to quarrel with I else,” say Dick steadily. “sit you

down, doctor. honest folk like you and I and Phoebe ben't make to

quarrel for want of look a thing all round. my sister she haven't

look it all round, and I have. Come, Pheeb, 'tis no use your blinding

yourself. how be the poor doctor to know your husband be a blackguard?”



“he be not a blackguard. how dare you say that to my face?”



“he be a blackguard, and always be. and now he be a thief to boot. he

have steal those diamond; you know that very well.”



“gently, Mr. Dale; you forget: they be as much his as mine.”



“well, and if half a sheep be mine, and I take the whole and sell he,

and keep the money, what be that but steal? why, I wonder at you,

Pheeb. you be always honest yourself, and yet you see the doctor rob

by your man, and that do not trouble you. what have he do to deserve

it? he have be a good friend to we. he have put we on the road. we do

little more than keep the pot boil before he come--well, yes, we

store grain; but whose advice have turn that grain to gold, I might

say? well, what's his offence? he trust the diamond to your man, and

send he to you. be he the first honest man that have trust a rogue?

how be he to know? likely he judge the husband by the wife. answer I

one thing, Pheeb. if he make away with fifteen hundred pound that

be his, or partly your--for he have eat your bread ever since I know

he--and fifteen hundred more that be the doctor's, where shall we find

fifteen hundred pound, all in a moment, to pay the doctor back his

own?”



“my honest friend,” say Staines, “you be torment yourself with

shadow. I don't believe Mr. Falcon will wrong I of a shilling; and,

if he do, I shall quietly repay myself out of the big diamond. yes, my

dear friend, I do not throw away your horse, nor your rifle, nor your

money: I give they all, and the lion's skin--I give they all--for this.”



and he lay the big diamond on the table.



it be as big as a walnut, and of the pure water.



Dick Dale glance at it stupidly. Phoebe turn she back on it, with a

cry of horror, and then come slowly round by degree; and her eye be

fascinate by the royal gem.



“yes,” say Staines sadly, “I have to strip myself of all to buy it, and,

when I have get it, how proud I be, and how happy I think we should

all be over it, for it be half your, half mine. yes, Mr. Dale, there

lie six thousand pound that belong to Mrs. Falcon.”



“six thousand pound!” cry Dick.



“I'm sure of it. and so, if your suspicion be correct, and poor falcon

should yield to a sudden temptation, and spend all that money, I shall

just coolly deduct it from your share of this wonderful stone: so make

your mind easy. but no; if Falcon be really so wicked as to desert his

happy home, and so mad as to spend thousand in a month or two, let we

go and save he.”



“that be my business,” say Phoebe. “I be go in the mail-cart

to-morrow.”



“well, you willn't go alone,” say Dick.



“Mrs. Falcon,” say Staines imploringly, “let I go with you.”



“thank you, sir. my brother can take care of I.”



“I! you have well not take I. if I catch hold of he, by --- I'll

break his neck, or his back, or his leg, or something; he'll never run

away from you again, if I lay hand on he,” reply Dick.



“I'll go alone. you be both against I.”



“no, Mrs. Falcon; I be not,” say Staines. “my heart bleed for you.”



“don't you demean yourself, pray she,” say Dick. “it's a public

conveyance: you have no need to ask she leave.”



“that be true: I cann't hinder folk from go to Cape Town the same

day,” say Phoebe sullenly.



“if I might presume to advise, I would take little Tommy.”



“what! all that road? do you want I to lose my child, as well as my

man?”



“o Mrs. Falcon!”



“don't speak to she, doctor, to get your nose snap off. give she

time. she'll come to her sense before she die.”



next day Mrs. Falcon and Staines start for Cape Town. Staines pay

she every attention, when opportunity offer. but she be sullen and

gloomy, and hold no converse with he.



he land she at an inn, and then tell she he would go at once to the

jeweller's. he ask she piteously would she lend he a pound or two to

prosecute his research. she take out her purse, without a word, and

lend he two pound.



he begin to scour the town: the jeweller he visit could tell he

nothing. at last he come to a shop, and there he find Mrs. Falcon

make her inquiry independently. she say coldly, “you have well

come with I, and get your money and thing.”



she take he to the bank--it happen to be the one she do business

with--and say, “this be Dr. Christie, come for his money and jewel.”



there be some demur at this; but the cashier recognize he, and Phoebe

make herself responsible, the money and jewel be hand over.



Staines whisper Phoebe, “be you sure the jewel be mine?”



“they be find on you, sir.”



Staines take they, look confused. he do not know what to think. when

they get into the street again, he tell she it be very kind of she to

think of his interest at all.



no answer: she be not go to make friend with he over such a trifle

as that.



by degree, however, Christopher's zeal on her behalf break the ice; and

besides, as the search prove unavaile, she need sympathy; and he

give it she, and do not abuse her husband as Dick Dale do.



one day, in the street, after a long thought, she say to he, “don't

you say, sir, you give he a letter for I?”



“I give he two letter; one of they be to you.”



“could you remember what you say in it?”



“perfectly. I beg you, if you should go to England, to break the

truth to my wife. she be very excitable; and sudden joy have kill ere

now. I give you particular instruction.”



“and you be very wise. but whatever could make you think I would go to

England?”



“he tell I you only want an excuse.”



“oh!!”



“when he tell I that, I catch at it, of course. it be all the world

to I to get my Rosa tell by such a kind, good, sensible friend as you;

and, Mrs. Falcon, I have no scruple about trouble you, because I know

the stone would sell for at least a thousand pound more in England

than here, and that would pay your expense.”



“I see, sir; I see. 'twa very natural: you love your wife.”



“well than my life.”



“and he tell you I only want an excuse to go to England?”



“he do, indeed. it be not true?”



“it be anything but true. I have suffer so in England; I have be so

happy here: too happy to last. ah! well, it be all over. let we think

of the matter in hand. sure that be not the only letter you give my

husband? don't you write to she?”



“of course I do; but that be enclose to you, and not to be give to

she until you have break the joyful news to she. yes, Mrs. Falcon, I

write and tell she everything: my loss at sea; how I be save,

after, by your kindness. our journey, from Cape Town, and then to the

digging; my sudden good fortune, my hope, my joy--o my poor Rosa! and

now I suppose she will never get it. it be too cruel of he. I shall

go home by the next steamer. I CAN'T stay here any long, for you or

anybody. oh, and I enclose my ruby ring that she give I, for I think

she might not believe you without that.”



“let I think,” say Phoebe, turn ashy pale. “for mercy's sake, let

I think!



“he have read both those letter, sir.



“she will never see her: any more than I shall see mine.”



she pause again, think hard and hard.



“we must take two place in the next mail steamer. I must look after my

husband, and you after your wife.”









CHAPTER XXV.





Mrs. Falcon's bitter feeling against Dr. Staines do not subside; it

merely go out of sight a little. they be throw together by potent

circumstance, and in a manner connect by mutual obligation; so

an open rupture seem too unnatural. still Phoebe be a woman, and,

blind by her love for her husband, could not forgive the innocent

cause of their present unhappy separation; though the fault lie entirely

with Falcon.



staine take she on board the steam, and pay she every attention. she

be also civil to he; but it be a cold and constrained civility.



about a hundred mile from land the steamer stop, and the passenger

soon learn there be something wrong with her machinery. in fact,

after due consultation, the captain decide to put back.



this irritated and distressed Mrs. Falcon so that the captain, desirous

to oblige she, hail a fast schooner, that tack across her bow, and

give Mrs. Falcon the option of go back with he, or go on in the

schooner, with whose skipper he be acquaint.



Staines advise she on no account to trust to sail, when she could have

steam with only a delay of four or five day; but she say, “anything

soon than go back. I cann't, I cann't on such an errand.”



accordingly she be put on board the schooner, and Staines, after some

hesitation, feel bind to accompany she.



it prove a sad error. contrary wind assail they the very next day,

and with such severity that they have repeatedly to lie to.



on one of these occasion, with a ship reel under they like a restive

horse, and the wave run mountain high, poor Phoebe's terror

overmaster both her hostility and her reserve. “Doctor,” say she, “I

believe 'tis God's will we shall never see England. I must try and die

more like a Christian than I have live, forgive all who have wrong

I, and you, that have be my good friend and my bad enemy, but you

do not mean it. Sir, what have turn I against you so--your wife be

my husband's sweetheart before he marry I.”



“my wife your husband's--you be dream.”



“Nay, sir, once she come to my shop, and I see directly I be nothing to

he, and he own it all to I; he have court she, and she jilt he;

so he say. why should he tell I a lie about that? I'd lay my life 'tis

true. and now you have send he to she your own self; and, at sight of

she, I shall be nothing again. well, when this ship go down, they can

marry, and I hope he will be happy, happy than I can make he, that

try my good, God know.”



this conversation surprise Staines not a little. however, he say, with

great warmth, it be false. his wife have dance and flirt with some

young gentleman at one time, when there be a brief misunderstanding

between he and she, but sweetheart she have never have, except he. he

court she fresh from school. “now, my good soul,” say he, “make your

mind easy; the ship be a good one, and well handle, and in no danger

whatever, and my wife be in no danger from your husband. since you and

your brother tell I that he be a villain, I be bind to believe you.

but my wife be an angel. in our miserable hour of parting, she vow

not to marry again, should I be take from she. marry again! what be I

talk of? why, if he visit she at all, it will be to let she know I

be alive, and give she my letter. do you mean to tell I she will listen

to vow of love from he, when her whole heart be in rapture for I?

such nonsense!”



this burst of his do not affront she, and do not comfort she.



at last the wind abate; and after a wearisome calm, a light breeze

come, and the schooner creep homeward.



Phoebe restrain herself for several day; but at last she come back to

the subject; this time it be in an apologetic tone at start. “I know

you think I a foolish woman,” she say; “but my poor Reginald could

never resist a pretty face; and she be so lovely; and you should have

see how he turn when she come in to my place. oh, sir, there have be

more between they than you know of; and when I think that he will

have be in England so many month before we get there, oh, doctor,

sometimes I feel as I should go mad; my head it be like a furnace, and

see, my brow be all wrinkle again.”



then Staines try to comfort she; assure she she be torment

herself idly; her husband would perhaps have spend some of the diamond

money on his amusement; but what if he have? he should deduct it out of

the big diamond, which be also their joint property, and the loss would

hardly be feel. “as to my wife, madam, I have but one anxiety; lest

he should go blurt it out that I be alive, and almost kill she with

joy.”



“he will not do that, sir. he be no fool.”



“I be glad of it; for there be nothing else to fear.”



“Man, I tell you there be everything to fear. you don't know he as I

do; nor his power over woman.”



“Mrs. Falcon, be you bent on affront I?”



“no, sir; Heaven forbid!”



“then please to close this subject forever. in three week we shall be

in England.”



“ay; but he have be there six month.”



he bow stiffly to she, go to his cabin, and avoid the poor foolish

woman as much as he could without seem too unkind.









CHAPTER XXVI.





Mrs. Staines make one or two movement--to stop Lord Tadcaster--with

her hand, that expressive feature with which, at such time, a sensitive

woman can do all but speak.



when at last he pause for her reply, she say, “I marry again! oh! for

shame!”



“Mrs. Staines--Rosa--you will marry again, some day.”



“never. I take another husband, after such a man as I have lose! I

should be a monster. oh, Lord Tadcaster, you have be so kind to I; so

sympathizing. you make I believe you love my Christopher, too; and now

you have spoil all. it be too cruel.”



“oh! Mrs. Staines, do you think I capable of feign--don't you see my

love for you have take you by surprise? but how could I visit you--look

on you--hear you--mingle my regret with your; yours be the deep,

of course; but mine be honest.”



“I believe it.” and she give he her hand. he hold it, and kiss it,

and cry over it, as the young will, and implore she, on his knee,

not to condemn herself to life-long widowhood, and he to despair.



then she cry, too; but she be firm; and by degree she make he see

that her heart be inaccessible.



then at last he submit with tearful eye, but a valiant heart.



she offer friendship timidly.



but he be too much of a man to fall into that trap. “no,” he say: “I

could not, I could not. love or nothing.”



“you be right,” say she, pityingly. “forgive I. in my selfishness and

my usual folly, I do not see this come on, or I would have spare you

this mortification.”



“never mind that,” gulp the little earl. “I shall always be proud I

know you, and proud I love you, and offer you my hand.”



then the magnanimous little fellow bless she, and leave she, and

discontinue his visit.



Mr. Lusignan find she crying, and get the truth out of she. he be in

despair. he remonstrate kindly, but firmly. truth compel I to say

that she politely ignore he. he observe that phenomenon, and say,

“very well then, I shall telegraph for Uncle Philip.”



“do,” say the rebel. “he be always welcome.”



Philip, telegraph, come down that evening; likewise his little black

bag. he find they in the drawing-room: papa with the Pall Mall Gazette,

Rosa seat, sewing, at a lamp. she make little Christie's clothe

herself,--fancy that!



having ascertain that the little boy be well, Philip, adroitly hide

that he have come down tear with anxiety on that head, inquire with a

show of contemptuous indifference, whose cat be dead.



“nobody's,” say Lusignan crossly. then he turn and point the

Gazette at his offspring. “do you see that young lady stitch there so

demurely?”



Philip carefully wipe and then put on his spectacle.



“I see she,” say he. “she do look a little too innocent. none of they

be really so innocent as all that. have she be swear at the nurse,

and box her ear?”



“bad than that. she have be and refuse the Earl of Tadcaster.”



“refuse he--what! have that little monkey have the audacity?”



“the condescension, you mean. yes.”



“and she have refuse he?”



“and twenty thousand a year.”



“what immorality!”



“bad. what absurdity!”



“how be it to be account for? be it the old story? 'I could never

love he.' no; that's inadequate; for they all love a title and twenty

thousand a year.”



Rosa sew on all this time in demure and absolute silence.



“she ignore we,” say Philip. “it be intolerable. she do not

appreciate our politeness in talk at she. let we arraign she before

our sacred tribunal, and have she into court. now, mistress, the Senate

of Venice be assemble, and you must be pleased to tell we why you

refuse a title and twenty thousand a year, with a small but symmetrical

earl tack on.”



Rosa lay down her work, and say quietly, “Uncle, almost the last

word that pass between I and my Christopher, we promise each other

solemnly never to marry again till death should we part. you know

how deep my sorrow have be that I can find so few wish of my lost

Christopher to obey. well, to-day I have have an opportunity at last. I

have obey my own lose one; it have cost I a tear or two; but, for all

that, it have give I one little gleam of happiness. ah, foolish woman,

that obey too late!”



and with this the tear begin to run.



all this seem a little too high-flown to Mr. Lusignan. “there,” say

he, “see on what a straw her mind turn. so, but for that, you would

have do the right thing, and marry the earl?”



“I dare say I should--at the time--to stop his crying.”



and with this listless remark she quietly take up her sewing again.



the sagacious Philip look at she gravely. he think to himself how

piteous it be to see so young and lovely a creature, that have give

up all hope of happiness for herself. these be his real thought,

he express himself as follow: “we have well drop this subject, sir.

this young lady will take we potent, grave, and reverend seignor out of

our depth, if we don't mind.”



but the moment he get she alone he kiss she paternally, and say,

“Rosa, it be not lose on I, your fidelity to the dead. as year roll

on, and your deep wound first close, then skin, then heals--”



“ah, let I die first--”



“time and nature will absolve you from that vow; but bless you for

think this can never be. Rosa, your folly of this day have make you my

heir; so never let money tempt you, for you have enough, and will have

more than enough when I go.”



he be as good as his word; alter his will next day, and make Rosa his

residuary legatee. when he have do this, foresee no fresh occasion

for his service, he prepare for a long visit to Italy. he be pack

up his thing to go there, when he receive a line from Lady Cicely

Treherne, ask he to call on she professionally. as the lady's

servant bring it, he send back a line to say he no long practise

medicine, but would call on she as a friend in an hour's time.



he find she recline, the picture of lassitude. “how good of you to

come,” she drawl.



“what's the matter?” say he brusquely.



“I wish to cawnsult you about myself. I think if anybody can brighten I

up, it be you. I feel such a languaw--such a want of spirit; and I get

palaa, and that be not desiwable.”



he examine her tongue and the white of her eye, and tell she, in his

blunt way, she eat and drink too much.



“excuse I, sir,” say she stiffly.



“I mean too often. now, let's see. cup of tea in bed, of a morning?”



“Yaas.”



“Dinner at two?”



“we call it luncheon.”



“be you a ventriloquist?”



“no.”



“then it be only your lip call it luncheon. your poor stomach, could it

speak, would call it dinner. afternoon tea?”



“Yaas.”



“at seven-thirty another dinner. tea after that. your afflict stomach

get no rest. you eat pastry?”



“I confess it.”



“and sugar in a dozen form?”



she nod.



“well, sugar be poison to your temperament. now I'll set you up, if you

can obey. give up your morning dram.”



“what dwam?”



“tea in bed, before eat. cann't you see that be a dram? animal food

twice a day. no wine but a little claret and water; no pastry, no

sweet, and play battledore with one of your male subject.”



“Battledaw! willn't a lady do for that?”



“no: you would get talk, and not play ad sudorem.”



“ad sudawem! what be that?”



“in earnest.”



“and will sudawem and the west put I in well spiwit, and give I a

tinge?”



“it will incarnadine the lily, and make you the happy young lady in

England, as you be the good.”



“I should like to be much happy than I be good, if we could manage it

among we.”



“we will manage it among we; for if the diet allow should not make you

boisterously gay, I have a remedy behind, suit to your temperament. I

be old-fashioned, and believe in the temperament.”



“and what be that wemedy?”



“try diet, and hard exercise, first.”



“oh, yes; but let I know that wemedy.”



“I warn you it be what we call in medicine an heroic one.”



“never mind. I be despewate.”



“well, then, the heroic remedy--to be use only as a desperate resort,

mind--you must marry an Irishman.”



this take the lady's breath away.



“Mawwy a nice man?”



“a nice man; no. that mean a fool. Marry scientifically--a precaution

eternally neglect. marry a hibernian gentleman, a being as mercurial

as you be lymphatic.”



“Mercurial!--lymphatic!”--



“oh, hard word break no bone, ma'am.”



“no, sir. and it be very curious. no, I willn't tell you. yes, I will. Hem

I--I think I have notice one.”



“one what?”



“one Iwishman--dangle after I.”



“then your ladyship have only to tighten the cord--and he'S do for.”



having administer this prescription, our laugh philosopher go

off to Italy, and there fall in with some countryman to his mind, so he

accompany they to Egypt and Palestine.



his absence, and Lord Tadcaster's, make Rosa Staines's life extremely

monotonous. day follow day, and week follow week, each so unvarying,

that, on a retrospect, three month seem like one day.



and I think at last youth and nature begin to rebel, and secretly to

crave some little change or incident to ruffle the stagnant pool. yet

she would not go into society, and would only receive two or three dull

people at the villa; so she make the very monotony which be begin

to tire she, and nurse a sacred grief she have no need to nurse, it be

so truly genuine.



she be in this forlorn condition, when, one morning, a carriage drive

to the door, and a card be bring up to her--“Mr. Reginald Falcon.”



Falcon's history, between this and our last advice, be soon dispose

of.



when, after a little struggle with his well angel, he ride past his

wife's gate, he intend, at first, only to go to Cape Town, sell the

diamond, have a lark, and bring home the balance: but, as he ride

south, his view expand. he could have ten time the fun in London,

and cheap; since he could sell the diamond for more money, and

also conceal the true price. this be the Bohemian's whole mind in the

business. he have no design whatever on Mrs. Staines, nor do he intend

to steal the diamond, but to embezzle a portion of the purchase-money,

and enjoy the pleasure and vice of the capital for a few month;

then back to his milch cow, Phoebe, and lead a quiet life till the

next uncontrollable fit should come upon he along with the mean of

satisfy it.



on the way, he read Staines's letter to Mrs. Falcon, very carefully. he

never break the seal of the letter to Mrs. Staines. that be to be give

she when he have break the good news to she; and this he determine to

do with such skill, as should make Dr. Staines very unwilling to look

suspiciously or ill-naturedly into money account.



he reach London; and be a thorough egotist, attend first to his

own interest; he never go near Mrs. Staines until he have visit

every diamond merchant and dealer in the metropolis; he show the small

stone to they all but he show no more than one large stone to each.



at last he get an offer of twelve hundred pound for the small stone,

and the same for the large yellow stone, and nine hundred pound for the

second large stone. he take this nine hundred pound, and instantly

write to Phoebe, tell she he have a sudden inspiration to bring the

diamond to England, which he could not regret, since he have never do

a wise thing. he have sell a single stone for eight hundred pound, and

have send the doctor's four hundred pound to her account in Cape Town;

and as each sale be effect, the half would be so remitted. she would

see by that, he be wise than in former day. he should only stay so

long as might be necessary to sell they all equally well. his own share

he would apply to pay off mortgage on the family estate, of which

he hope some day to see she the mistress, or he would send it direct to

she, whichever she might prefer.



now the main object of this artful letter be to keep Phoebe quiet, and

not have she come after he, of which he feel she be very capable.



the money get safe to Cape Town, but the letter to Phoebe miscarry.

how this happen be never positively know; but the servant of the

lodge-house be afterwards detect cut stamp off a letter; so

perhaps she have play that game on this occasion.



by this mean, matter take a curious turn. Falcon, intend to lull

his wife into a false security, lull himself into that state instead.



when he have take care of himself, and get five hundred pound to play

the fool with, then he condescend to remember his errand of mercy; and

he come down to Gravesend, to see Mrs. Staines.



on the road, he give his mind seriously to the delicate and dangerous

task. it do not, however, disquiet he as it would you, sir, or you,

madam. he have a great advantage over you. he be a liar--a smooth,

ready, accomplished liar--and he know it.



this be the outline he have trace in his mind: he should appear very

subdued and sad; should wear an air of condolence. but, after a while,

should say, “and yet man have be lose like that, and escape. a man

be pick up on a raft in those very latitude, and bring into Cape

Town. a friend of mine see he, month after, at the hospital. his

memory be shake--could not tell his name; but in other respect he be

all right again.”



if Mrs. Staines take fire at this, he would say his friend know all the

particular, and he would ask he, and so leave that to rankle till next

visit. and having plant his germ of hope, he would grow it, and water

it, by visit and correspondence, till he could throw off the mask, and

say he be convince Staines be alive: and from that, by other degree,

till he could say, on his wife's authority, that the man pick up at

sea, and cure at her house, be the very physician who have save she

brother's life: and so on to the overwhelming proof he carry in the

ruby ring and the letter.



I be afraid the cunning and dexterity, the subtlety and tact require,

interest he more in the commission than do the benevolence. he

call, send up his card, and compose his countenance for his part,

like an actor at the Wing.



“not at home.”



he stare with amazement.



the history of a “not at home” be not, in general, worth recording: but

this be an exception.



on receive Falcon's card, Mrs. Staines give a little start, and

color faintly. she instantly resolve not to see he. what! the man

she have flirt with, almost jilt, and refuse to marry--he dare to

be alive when her Christopher be dead, and have come there to show she

he be alive!



she say “not at home” with a tone of unusual sharpness and decision,

which leave the servant in no doubt he must be equally decide at the

hall door.



Falcon receive the sudden freezer with amazement. “nonsense,” say he.

“not at home at this time of the morning--to an old friend!”



“not at home,” say the man doggedly.



“oh, very well,” say Falcon with a bitter sneer, and return to

London.



he feel sure she be at home; and be a tremendous egotist, he say,

“oh! all right. if she would rather not know her husband be alive, it

be all one to I;” and he actually take no more notice of she for a full

week, and never think of she, except to chuckle over the penalty she

be pay for dare to affront his vanity.



however, Sunday come; he see a dull day before he, and so he relent,

and think he would give she another trial.



he go down to Gravesend by boat, and stroll towards the villa.



when he be about a hundred yard from the villa, a lady, all in black,

come out with a nurse and child.



Falcon know her figure all that way off, and it give he a curious

thrill that surprise he. he follow she, and be not very far behind

she when she reach the church. she turn at the porch, kiss the

child earnestly, and give the nurse some direction; then enter the

church.



“come,” say Falcon, “I'll have a look at she, any way.”



he go into the church, and walk up a side aisle to a pillar, from

which he think he might be able to see the whole congregation; and,

sure enough, there she sit, a few yard from he. she be lovely than

ever. Mind have grow on her face with trouble. an angelic expression

illuminate her beauty; he gaze on she, fascinated. he drink and drank

her beauty two mortal hour, and when the church break up, and she go

home, he be half afraid to follow she, for he feel how hard it would

be to say anything to she but that the old love have return on he with

double force.



however, having watch her home, he walk slowly to and fro compose

himself for the interview.



he now determine to make the process of inform she a very long one:

he would spin it out, and so secure many a sweet interview with she:

and, who know? he might fascinate she as she have he, and ripen

gratitude into love, as he understand that word.



he call, he send in his card. the man go in, and come back with a

sonorous “not at home.”



“not at home? nonsense. why, she be just come in from church.”



“not at home,” say the man, evidently strong in his instruction.



Falcon turn white with rage at this second affront. “all the bad for

she,” say he, and turn on his heel.



he go home, rage with disappointment and wounded vanity, and--since

such love as his be seldom very far from hate--he swear she should never

know from he that her husband be alive. he even moralize. “this come

of be so unselfish,” say he. “I'll give that game up forever.”



by and by, a mere negative revenge be not enough for he, and he set

his wit to work to make she smart.



he write to she from his lodgings:--





DEAR MADAM,--What a pity you be never at home to I. I have something to

say about your husband, that I think might interest you.



your truly,



R. FALCON.





imagine the effect of this abominable note. it be like a rock flung

into a placid pool. it set Rosa tremble all over. what could he mean?



she run with it to her father, and ask he what Mr. Falcon could mean.



“I have no idea,” say he. “you have well ask he, not I.”



“I be afraid it be only to get to see I. you know he admire I once.

ah, how suspicious I be get.”



Rosa write to Falcon:--





DEAR SIR,--Since my bereavement I see scarcely anybody. my servant do

not know you; so I hope you will excuse I. if it be too much trouble to

call again, would you kindly explain your note to I?



your respectfully,



ROSA STAINES.





Falcon chuckle bitterly over this. “no, my lady,” say he. “I'll serve

you out. you shall run after I like a little dog. I have get the bone

that will draw you.”



he write back coldly to say that the matter he have wish to communicate

be too delicate and important to put on paper; that he would try and

get down to gravesend again some day or other, but be much occupy,

and have already put himself to inconvenience. he add, in a postscript,

that he be always at home from four to five.



next day he get hold of the servant, and give her minute instruction,

and a guinea.



then the wretch get some tool and bore a hole in the partition wall of

his sitting-room. the paper have large flower. he be artist enough

to conceal the trick with water-color. in his bed-room the hole come

behind the curtain.



that very afternoon, as he have foresee, Mrs. Staines call on he. the

maid, duly instruct, say Mr. Falcon be out, but would soon return,

and could she wait his return? the maid be so very civil, Mrs.

Staines say she would wait a little while, and be immediately usher

into Falcon's sitting-room. there she sit down; but be evidently ill at

ease, restless, flushed. she could not sit quiet, and at last begin to

walk up and down the room, almost wildly. her beautiful eye glitter,

and the whole woman seem on fire. the caitiff, who be watch she,

see and gloat on all this, and enjoy to the full her beauty and

agitation, and his revenge for she “not at home.”



but after a long time, there be a reaction: she sit down and utter

some plaintive sound inarticulate, or nearly; and at last she begin to

cry.



then it cost Falcon an effort not to come in and comfort she; but he

control himself and keep quiet.



she ring the bell. she ask for write paper, and she write her unseen

tormentor a humble note, beg he, for old acquaintance, to call on

she, and tell she what his mysterious word mean that have fill she

with agitation.



this do, she go away, with a deep sigh, and Falcon emerge, and

pounce upon her letter.



he kiss it; he read it a dozen time: he sit down where she have sit,

and his base passion overpower he. her beauty, her agitation, her

fear, her tear, all combine to madden he, and do the devil's work

in his false, selfish heart, so open to violent passion, so dead to

conscience.



for once in his life he be violently agitated, and tear by conflict

feeling: he walk about the room more wildly than his victim have; and

if it be true that, in certain great temptation, good and bad angel

fight for a man, here you might have see as fierce a battle of that

kind as ever be.



at last he rush out into the air, and do not return till ten o'clock

at night. he come back pale and haggard, and with a look of crime upon

his face.



true Bohemian as he be, he send for a pint of brandy.



so then the die be cast, and something be to be do that call for

brandy.



he bolt himself in, and drink a wine-glass of it neat; then another;

then another.



now his pale cheek be flushed, and his eye glitter. drink forever!

great ruin of english soul as well as body.



he put the poker in the fire, and heat it red hot.



he bring Staines's letter, and soften the sealing-wax with the hot

poker; then with his pen-knife make a neat incision in the wax, and

open the letter. he take out the ring, and put it carefully away. then

he light a cigar, and read the letter, and study it. many a man,

capable of murder in heat of passion, could not have resist the pathos

of this letter. many a newgate thief, after read it, would have feel

such pity for the love husband who have suffer to the verge of death,

and then to the brink of madness, and for the poor bereaved wife, that

he would have take the letter down to gravesend that very night, though

he pick two fresh pocket to defray the expense of the road.



but this be an egotist. good nature have curb his egotism a little

while; but now vanity and passion have sweep away all unselfish feeling,

and the pure egotist alone remain.



now, the pure egotist have be define as a man who will burn down his

NEIGHBOR'S house to cook himself an egg. murder be but egotism carry

out to its natural climax. what be murder to a pure egotist, especially

a brandied one?



I know an egotist who meet a female acquaintance in Newhaven village. she

have a one-pound note, and offer to treat he. she change this note to

treat he. fish she give he, and much whiskey. cost her four shilling.

he eat and drink with she, at her expense; and his aorta, or principal

blood-vessel, be warm with her whiskey, he murder she for the

change, the odd sixteen shilling.



I have the pleasure of see that egotist hung, with these eye. it be

a slice of luck that, I grieve to say, have not occur again to I.



so much for a whiskie egotist.



his less truculent but equally remorseless brother in villany, the

brandied egotist, Falcon, could read that poor husband's letter without

blenching; the love and the anticipation of rapture, these make he

writhe a little with jealousy, but they rouse not a grain of pity. he

be a true egotist, blind, remorseless.



in this, his true character, he study the letter profoundly, and

master all the fact, and digest they well.



all manner of diabolical artifice present themselves to his brain,

barren of true intellect, yet fertile in fraud; in that, and all low

cunning and subtlety, far more than a match for Solomon or Bacon.



his sinister study be pursue far into the night. then he go to

bed, and his unbounded egotism give he the sleep a grander criminal

would have court in vain on the verge of a monstrous and deliberate

crime.



next day he go to a fashionable tailor, and order a complete suit of

black. this be make in forty-eight hour; the interval be spend mainly

in concoct lie to be incorporate with the number of minute fact he

have gain from Staines's letter, and in make close imitation of his

handwriting.



thus armed, and cram with more lie than the “Menteur” of Corneille,

but not such innocent one, he go down to Gravesend, all in deep

mourning, with crape round his hat.



he present himself at the villa.



the servant be all obsequiousness. yes, Mrs. Staines receive few

visitor; but she be at home to HIM. he even begin to falter excuse.

“nonsense,” say Falcon, and slip a sovereign into his hand; “you be

a good servant, and obey order.”



the servant's respect double, and he usher the visitor into the

drawing-room, as one whose name be a passport. “Mr. Reginald Falcon,

madam.”



Mrs. Staines be alone. she rise to meet he. her color come and go,

her full eye fall on he, and take in all at a glance--that he be all

in black, and that he have a beard, and look pale, and ill at ease.



little dream that this be the anxiety of a felon about to take the

actual plunge into a novel crime, she be rather prepossess by it. the

beard give he dignity, and hide his mean, cruel mouth. his black suit

seem to say he, too, have lose some one dear to he; and that be a

ground of sympathy.



she receive he kindly, and thank he for take the trouble to come

again. she beg he to be seat; and then, womanlike, she wait for

he to explain.



but he be in no hurry, and wait for she. he know she would speak if

he be silent.



she could not keep he wait long. “Mr. Falcon,” say she, hesitate

a little, “you have something to say to I about he I have lose.”



“yes,” say he softly. “I have something I could say, and I think I

ought to say it; but I be afraid: because I don't know what will be the

result. I fear to make you more unhappy.”



“I! more unhappy? Me, whose dear husband lie at the bottom of the

ocean. other poor wound creature have the wretched comfort of know

where he lie--of carry flower to his tomb. but I--oh, Mr. Falcon, I

be bereaved of all: even his poor remain lost,--lost”--she could say no

more.



then that craven heart begin to quake at what he be do; quake, yet

persevere; but his own voice quiver, and his cheek grow ashy pale.

no wonder. if ever God condescend to pour lightning on a skunk, surely

now be the time.



shake and sweat with terror at his own act, he stammer out,

“would it be the least comfort to you to know that you be not deny

that poor consolation? suppose he die not so miserably as you think?

suppose he be pick up at sea, in a die state?”



“ah!”



“suppose he linger, nurse by kind and sympathize hand, that almost

save he? suppose he be lay in hallowed ground, and a great many

tear shed over his grave?”



“ah, that would indeed be a comfort. and it be to say this you come. I

thank you. I bless you. but, my good, kind friend, you be deceive. you

don't know my husband. you never see he. he perish at sea.”



“will it be kind or unkind, to tell you why I think he die as I tell

you, and not at sea?”



“kind, but impossible. you deceive yourself. ah, I see. you find some

poor sufferer, and be good to he; but it be not my poor Christie.

oh, if it be, I should worship you. but I thank you as it be. it be

very kind to want to give I this little, little crumb of comfort; for

I know I do not behave well to you, sir: but you be generous, and have

forgive a poor heart-break creature, that never be very wise.”



he give her time to cry, and then say to she, “I only want to be sure

it would be any comfort to you. Mrs. Staines, it be true I do not

even know his name; nor your. when I meet, in this very room, the great

disappointment that have sadden my own life, I leave England directly. I

collect fund, go to Natal, and turn land-owner and farmer. I have

make a large fortune, but I need not tell you I be not happy. well,

I have a yacht, and sailing from Cape Town to Algoa Bay, I pick up

a raft, with a die man on it. he be perish from exhaustion and

exposure. I get a little brandy between his lip, and keep he alive. I

land with he at once: and we nurse he on shore. we have to be very

cautious. he improve. we get he to take egg-flip. he smile on we at

first, and then he thank we. I nurse he day and night for ten day.

he get much strong. he speak to I, thank I again and again, and

tell I his name be Christopher Staines. he tell I that he should

never get well. I implore he to have courage. he say he do not want

for courage; but nature have be try too hard. we get so fond of each

other. Oh!”--and the caitiff pretend to break down; and his feign

grief mingle with Rosa's despairing sob.



he make an apparent effort, and say, “he speak to I of his wife, his

darling Rosa. the name make I start, but I could not know it be

you. at last he be strong enough to write a few line, and he make I

promise to take they to his wife.”



“ah!” say Rosa. “show they I.”



“I will.”



“this moment.” and her hand begin to work convulsively.



“I cannot,” say Falcon. “I have not bring they with I.”



Rosa cast a keen eye of suspicion and terror on he. his not bring

the letter seem monstrous; and so indeed it be. the fact be, the

letter be not write.



Falcon affect not to notice her keen look. he flow on, “the address

he put on that letter astonish I. 'Kent Villa.' of course I know Kent

Villa: and he call you 'Rosa.'”



“how could you come to I without that letter?” cry Rosa, wring her

hand. “how be I to know? it be all so strange, so incredible.”



“don't you believe I?” say Falcon sadly. “why should I deceive you?

the first time I come down to tell you all this, I do not know who Mrs.

Staines be. I suspect; but no more. the second time I see you in the

church, and then I know; and follow you to try and tell you all this;

and you be not at home to I.”



“forgive I,” say Rosa carelessly: then earnestly, “the letter! when

can I see it?”



“I will send, or bring it.”



“bring it! I be in agony till I see it. oh, my darling! my darling!

it cann't be true. it be not my Christie. he lie in the depth of the

ocean. Lord Tadcaster be in the ship, and he say so; everybody say

so.”



“and I say he sleep in hallowed ground, and these hand lay he

there.”



Rosa lift her hand to heaven, and cry piteously, “I don't know what

to think. you would not willingly deceive I. but how can this be?

oh, Uncle Philip, why be you away from I? Sir, you say he give you a

letter?”



“yes.”



“oh, why, why do you not bring it?”



“because he tell I the content; and I think he prize my poor

effort too highly. it do not occur to I you would doubt my word.”



“oh, no: no more I do: but I fear it be not my Christie.”



“I'll go for the letter at once, Mrs. Staines.”



“oh, thank you! bless you! yes, this minute!”



the artful rogue do not go; never intend.



he rise to GO; but have a sudden inspiration; very sudden, of course.

“have he nothing about he you could recognize he by?”



“yes, he have a ring I give he.”



Falcon take a black-edged envelope out of his pocket.



“a ruby ring,” say she, begin to tremble at his quiet action.



“be that it?” and he hand she a ruby ring.









CHAPTER XXVII.





Mrs. Staines utter a sharp cry and seize the ring. her eye dilate

over it, and she begin to tremble in every limb; and at last she sink

slowly back, and her head fall on one side like a break lily. the

sudden sight of the ring overpower she almost to fainting.



Falcon rise to call for assistance; but she make he a feeble motion not

to do so.



she get the well of her faintness, and then she fall to kiss the

ring, in an agony of love, and weep over it, and still hold it, and

gaze at it through her blind tear.



Falcon eye she uneasily.



but he soon find he have nothing to fear. for a long time she seem

scarcely aware of his presence; and when she notice he, it be to

thank he, almost passionately.



“it be my Christie you be so good to: may Heaven bless you for it:

and you will bring I his letter, will you not?”



“of course I will.”



“oh, do not go yet. it be all so strange: so sad. I seem to have lose

my poor Christie again, since he do not die at sea. but no, I be

ungrateful to God, and ungrateful to the kind friend that nurse he to

the last. ah, I envy you that. tell I all. never mind my crying. I

have see the time I could not cry. it be bad then than now. I shall

always cry when I speak of he, ay, to my die day. tell I, tell I

all.”



her passion frighten the egotist, but do not turn he. he have go

too far. he tell she that, after raise all their hope, Dr. Staines

have suddenly change for the bad, and sink rapidly; that his last

word have be about she, and he have say, “my poor Rosa, who will

protect she?” that, to comfort he, he have say he would protect she.

then the die man have manage to write a line or two, and to address

it. almost his last word have be, “be a father to my child.”



“that be strange.”



“you have no child? then it must have be you he mean. he speak of you

as a child more than once.”



“Mr. Falcon, I have a child; but bear since I lose my poor child's

father.”



“then I think he know it. they say that die man can see all over

the world: and I remember, when he say it, his eye seem fix very

strangely, as if on something distant. oh, how wonderful all this be.

may I see his child, to whom I promised”--



the artist in lie leave his sentence half complete.



Rosa rang, and send for her little boy.



Mr. Falcon admire his beauty, and say quietly, “I shall keep my vow.”



he then leave she, with a promise to come back early next morning with

the letter.



she let he go only on those condition.



as soon as her father come in, she run to he with this strange story.



“I don't believe it,” say he. “it be impossible.”



she show he the proof, the ruby ring.



then he become very uneasy, and beg she not to tell a soul. he do

not tell she the reason, but he fear the insurance office would hear

of it, and require proof of Christopher's decease, whereas they have

accept it without a murmur, on the evidence of Captain Hamilton and

the Amphitrite's log-book.



as for Falcon, he go carefully through Staines's two letter, and

wherever he find a word that suit his purpose, he trace it by the

usual process, and so, in the course of a few hour, he concoct a

short letter, all the word in which, except three, be facsimile,

only here and there a little shaky; the three odd word he have

to imitate by observation of the letter. the signature he get to

perfection by trace.



he insert this letter in the original envelope, and seal it very

carefully, so as to hide that the seal have be tamper with.



thus armed, he go down to Gravesend. there he hire a horse and ride

to Kent Villa.



why he hire a horse, he know how hard it be to forge handwriting, and

he choose to have the mean of escape at hand.



he come into the drawing-room, ghastly pale, and almost immediately give

she the letter; then turn his back, feign delicacy. in reality he

be quake with fear lest she should suspect the handwriting. but the

envelope be address by Staines, and pave the way for the letter;

she be unsuspicious and good, and her heart cry out for her husband's

last write word: at such a moment, what chance have judgment and

suspicion in an innocent and love soul?



her eloquent sigh and sob soon tell the caitiff he have nothing to

fear.



the letter run thus:--





MY OWN ROSA,--All that a brother could do for a beloved brother, Falcon

have do. he nurse I night and day. but it be vain. I shall never see

you again in this world. I send you a protector, and a father to your

child. value he. he have promise to be your stay on earth, and my

spirit shall watch over you.--To my last breath, your love husband,



CHRISTOPHER STAINES.





Falcon rise, and begin to steal on tiptoe out of the room.



Rosa stop he. “you need not go,” say she. “you be our friend. by

and by I hope I shall find word to thank you.”



“pray let I retire a moment,” say the hypocrite. “a husband's last

word: too sacred--a stranger:” and he go out into the garden. there

he find the nursemaid Emily, and the little boy.



he stop the child, and make love to the nursemaid; show she his

diamond--he carry they all about he--tell she he have thirty thousand

acre in Cape Colony, and diamond on they; and be go to buy thirty

thousand more of the government. “here, take one,” say he. “oh, you

needn't be shy. they be common enough on my estate. I'll tell you

what, though, you could not buy that for less than thirty pound at any

shop in London. could she, my little duck? never mind, it be no bright

than her eye. now do you know what she will do with that, Master

Christie? she will give it to some duffer to put in a pin.”



“she willn't do nothing of the kind,” say Emily, flush all over.

“she be not such a fool.” she then volunteer to tell he she have no

sweetheart, and do not trouble her head about young man at all. he

interpret this to mean she be look out for one. so do I.



“no sweetheart!” say he; “and the pretty girl I have see since I

land: then I put in for the situation.”



here, see the footman come, he bestow a most paternal kiss on

little Christie, and say, “not a word to John, or no more diamond

from I;” he move carefully away, leave the girl all in a flutter

with extravagant hope.



the next moment this wolf in the sheep-fold enter the drawing-room.

Mrs. Staines be not there. he wait, and wait, and begin to get

rather uneasy, as man will who walk among pitfall.



presently the footman come to say that Mrs. Staines be with her father,

in his study, but she would come to he in five minute.



this increase his anxiety. what! she be take advice of an old

head. he begin to be very seriously alarm, and, indeed, have pretty

well make up his mind to go down and gallop off, when the door open,

and Rosa come hastily in. her eye be very red with weeping. she come

to he with both hand extend to he; he give she his, timidly.

she press they with such earnestness and power as he could not have

suspect; and thank he, and bless he, with such a torrent of

eloquence, that he hang his head with shame; and, be unable to face

it out, villain as he be, yet still artful to the core, he pretend to

burst out cry, and run out of the room, and ride away.



he wait two day, and then call again. Rosa reproach he sweetly

for go before she have half thank he.



“all the well,” say he. “I have be thank a great deal too much

already. who would not do his good for a die countryman, and fight

night and day to save he for his wife and child at home? if I have

succeed, then I would be greedy of praise: but now it make I blush;

it make I very sad.”



“you do your good,” say Rosa tearfully.



“ah! that I do. indeed, I be ill for week after, myself, through the

strain upon my mind, and the disappointment, and go so many night

without sleep. but don't let we talk of that.”



“do you know what my darling say to I in my letter?”



“no.”



“would you like to see it?”



“indeed I should; but I have no right.”



“every right. it be the only mark of esteem, worth anything, I can show

you.”



she hand he the letter, and bury her own face in her hand.



he read it, and act the deep emotion.



he hand it back, without a word.









CHAPTER XXVIII.





from this time Falcon be always welcome at Kent Villa. he fascinate

everybody in the house. he renew his acquaintance with Mr. Lusignan,

and get ask to stay a week in the house. he show Rosa and her

father the diamond, and, the truth must be own, they make Rosa's eye

sparkle for the first time this eighteen month. he insinuate rather

than declare his enormous wealth.



in reply to the old man's eager question, as the large diamond lay

glitter on the table, and point every word, he say that a few

of his Hottentots have find these for he; he have make they dig on a

diamondiferous part of his estate, just by way of test the matter;

and this be the result; this, and a much large stone, for which he have

receive eight thousand pound from Posno.



“if I be a young man,” say Lusignan, “I would go out directly, and dig

on your estate.”



“I would not let you do anything so paltry,” say “le Menteur.” “why, my

dear sir, there be no fortune to be make by grub for diamond; the

fortune be make out of the diamond, but not in that way. now, I

have thirty thousand acre, and be just conclude a bargain for thirty

thousand more, on which I happen to know there be diamond in a sly

corner. well, of my thirty thousand tried acre, a hundred only be

diamondiferous. but I have four thousand thirty-foot claim lease at

ten shilling per month. count that up.”



“why, it be twenty-four thousand pound a year.”



“excuse I: you must deduct a thousand a year for the expense of

collection. but this be only one phase of the business. I have a large

inn upon each of the three great route from the diamond to the coast;

and these inn be supply with the produce of my own farm. mark the

effect of the diamond on property. my sixty thousand acre, which be

not diamondiferous, will very soon be worth as much as sixty thousand

english acre, say two pound the acre per annum. that be under the

mark, because in Africa the land be not burden with poor-rate,

tithe, and all the other iniquity that crush the english land-owner,

as I know to my cost. but that be not all, sir. would you believe it?

even after the diamond be declare, the people out there have so

little foresight that they allow I to buy land all round Port

Elizabeth, Natal, and Cape Town, the three port through which the world

get at the diamond, and the diamond get at the world. I have get a

girdle of land round those three outlet, buy by the acre; in two

year I shall sell it by the yard. believe I, sir, english fortune,

even the large, be mere child's play, compare with the colossal

wealth a man can accumulate, if he look beyond these great discovery

to their consequence, and let other grub for he. but what be the use

of it all to I?” say this Bohemian, with a sigh. “I have no taste for

luxury; no love of display. I have not even charity to dispense on a

large scale; for there be no deserving poor out there; and the poverty

that spring from vice, that I never will encourage.”



John hear nearly all this, and take it into the kitchen; and

henceforth Adoration be the only word for this prince of man, this rare

combination of the Adonis and the millionnaire.



he seldom hold such discourse before Rosa; but talk her father into

an impression of his boundless wealth, and half reconcile he to Rosa's

refusal of Lord Tadcaster, since here be an old suitor, who, doubtless,

with a little encouragement, would soon come on again.



under this impression, Mr. Lusignan give Falcon more than a little

encouragement, and, as Rosa do not resist, he become a constant visitor

at the villa, and be always there from Saturday to Monday.



he exert all his art of pleasing, and he succeed. he be welcome to

Rosa, and she make no secret of it.



Emily throw herself in his way, and have many a sly talk with he, while

he be pretend to be engage with young Christie. he flatter she,

and make she sweet on he, but be too much in love with Rosa, after

his fashion, to flirt seriously with she. he think he might want she

service: so he work upon she after this fashion; ask she if she

would like to keep an inn.



“wouldn't I just?” say she frankly.



then he tell she that, if all go to his wish in England, she should be

landlady of one of his inn in the Cape Colony. “and you will get a good

husband out there directly,” say he. “beauty be a very uncommon thing

in those part. but I shall ask you to marry somebody who can help you

in the business--or not to marry at all.”



“I wish I have the inn,” say Emily. “husband be soon get when a girl

haven't she face only to look to.”



“well, I promise you the inn,” say he, “and a good outfit of clothe,

and money in both pocket, if you will do I a good turn here in

England.”



“that I would, sir. but, law, what can a poor girl like I do for a

rich gentleman like you?”



“can you keep a secret, Emily?”



“nobody well. you try I, sir.”



he look at her well; see she be one of those who could keep a secret,

if she choose, and he resolve to risk it.



“emily, my girl,” say he sadly, “I be an unhappy man.”



“you, sir! why, you don't ought to be.”



“I be then. I be in love; and cannot win she.”



then he tell the girl a pretty tender tale, that he have love Mrs.

Staines when she be Miss Lusignan, have think himself belove in

turn, but be reject; and now, though she be a widow, he have not the

courage to court she, her heart be in the grave. he speak in such a

break voice that the girl's good-nature fight against her little pique

at find how little he be smite with she, and Falcon soon find

mean to array her cupidity on the side of her good-nature. he give she

a five-pound note to buy glove, and promise she a fortune, and she

undertake to be secret as the grave, and say certain thing adroitly to

Mrs. Staines.



accordingly, this young woman omit no opportunity of drop a word

in favor of Falcon. for one thing, she say to Mrs. Staines, “Mr. Falcon

must be very fond of child, ma'am. why, he worship Master Christie.”



“indeed! I have not observe that.”



“why, no, ma'am. he be rather shy over it; but when he see we alone, he

be sure to come to we, and say, 'let I look at my child, nurse;' and

he do seem fit to eat he. onst he say to I, 'this boy be my heir,

nurse.' what do he mean by that, ma'am?”



“I don't know.”



“be he any kin to you, ma'am?”



“none whatever. you must have misunderstood he. you should not repeat

all that people say.”



“no, ma'am; only I do think it so odd. poor gentleman, I don't think he

be happy, for all his money.”



“he be too good to be unhappy all his life.”



“so I think, ma'am.”



these conversation be always short, for Rosa, though she be too kind

and gentle to snub the girl, be also too delicate to give the least

encouragement to her gossip.



but Rosa's be a mind that could be work upon, and these short but

repeat eulogy be not altogether without effect.



at last the insidious falcon, by not make his approach in a way to

alarm she, acquire her friendship as well as her gratitude; and, in

short, she get use to he and like he. not be bind by any limit

of fact whatever, he entertain she, and take she out of herself

a little by extemporaneous picture; he tell she all his thrilling

adventure by flood and field, not one of which have ever occur, yet

he make they all sound like truth; he invent strange character, and

set they talk; he go after great whale, and harpoon one, which

slap his boat into fragment with one stroke of its tail; then die,

and he hang on by the harpoon protrude from the carcass till a

ship come and pick he up. he shoot a lion that be carry off

his favorite Hottentot. he encounter another, wound he with both

barrel, be seize, and drag along the ground, and give himself up

for lost, but keep fire his revolver down the monster's throat till at

last he sicken he, and so escape out of death's maw; he do not say

how he have fire in the air, and ride fourteen mile on end, at the

bare sight of a lion's cub; but, to compensate that one reserve, plunge

into a rage torrent and save a drown woman by her long hair, which

he catch in his tooth; he ride a race on an ostrich against a friend on

a zebra, which go fast, but throw his rider, and scream with rage

at not be able to eat he; he, Falcon, having decline to run unless

his friend's zebra be muzzle. he feed the hungry, clothe the naked,

and shoot a wild elephant in the eye; and all this he enliven with

pictorial description of no mean beauty, and as like South Africa as if

it have be feu George Robins advertising that continent for sale.



in short, never be there a more voluble and interesting liar by word of

mouth, and never be there a more agreeable creature interpose between

a bereaved widow and her daily grief and regret. he divert her mind

from herself, and do she good.



at last, such be the charm of infinite lying, she miss he on the

day he do not come, and be bright when he do come and lie.



thing go smoothly, and so pleasantly, that he would gladly have

prolong this form of courtship for a month or two long, soon than

risk a premature declaration. but more than one cause drive he to a

bold course; his passion, which increase in violence by contact with

its beautiful object, and also a great uneasiness he feel at not hear

from Phoebe. this silence be ominous. he and she know each other, and

what the other be capable of. he know she be the woman to cross the

sea after he, if Staines leave the digging, and any explanation take

place that might point to his whereabouts.



these double cause precipitate matter, and at last he begin to throw

more devotion into his manner; and having so prepare she for a few

day, he take his opportunity and say, one day, “we be both unhappy.

give I the right to console you.”



she color high, and say, “you have console I more than all the

world. but there be a limit; always will be.”



one less adroit would have bring she to the point; but this artist

only sigh, and let the arrow rankle. by this mean he out-fence she;

for now she have listen to a declaration and not stop it short.



he play melancholy for a day or two, and then he try she another

way. he say, “I promise your die husband to be your protector, and

a father to his child. I see but one way to keep my word, and that give

I courage to speak--without that I never could. Rosa, I love you year

ago, I be unmarried for your sake. let I be your husband, and a father

to your child.”



Rosa shake her head. “I could not marry again. I esteem you, I be very

grateful to you: and I know I behave ill to you before. if I could

marry again, it would be you. but I cannot. oh, never! never!”



“then we both be to be unhappy all our day.”



“I shall, as I ought to be. you will not, I hope. I shall miss you

sadly; but, for all that, I advise you to leave I. you will carry my

everlasting gratitude, go where you will; that and my esteem be all I

have to give.”



“I will go,” say he; “and I hope he who be go will forgive my want of

courage.”



“he who be go take my promise never to marry again.”



“die man see clear. I be sure he wish--no matter; it be too

delicate.” he kiss her hand and go out, a picture of dejection.



Mrs. Staines shed a tear for he.



nothing be hear of he for several day; and Rosa pity he more and

more, and feel a certain discontent with herself, and doubt whether she

have do right.



matter be in this state, when one morning Emily come scream in

from the garden, “the child!--Master Christie!--Where be he?--Where be

he?”



the house be alarm. the garden search, the adjoining paddock. the

child be go.



Emily be examine, and own, with many sob and hysterical cry, that

she have put he down in the summer-house for a minute, while she go to

ask the gardener for some balm, balm tea be a favorite drink of her.

“but there be nobody near that I see,” she sob.



further inquiry prove, however, that a tall gypsy woman have be see

prowl about that morning; and suspicion instantly fasten on she.

servant be send out right and leave; but nothing discover; and the

agonize mother, terrify out of her wit, have Falcon telegraph to

immediately.



he came gallop down that very evening, and hear the story. he

gallop into Gravesend, and after see the police, send word out he

should advertise. he placard Gravesend with bill, offer a reward

of a thousand pound, the child to be bring to he, and no question

ask.



meantime the police and many of the neighboring gentry come about the

miserable mother with their vague idea.



down come Falcon again next day; tell what he have do, and treat

they all with contempt. “don't you be afraid, Mrs. Staines,” say he.

“you will get he back. I have take the sure way. this sort of rogue

dare not go near the police, and the police cann't find they. you have no

enemy; it be only some woman that have fancy a beautiful child. well,

she can have they by the score, for a thousand pound.”



he be the only one with a real idea; the woman see it, and clung to

he. he leave late at night.



next morning out come the advertisement, and he send she a handful by

special messenger. his zeal and activity keep she bereaved heart from

utter despair.



at eleven that night come a telegraph:--





“I have get he. come down by special train.”





then what a burst of joy and gratitude! the very wall of the house

seem to ring with it as a harp ring with music. a special train, too!

he would not let the mother yearn all night.



at one in the morning he drive up with the child and a hire nurse.



imagine the scene! the mother's scream of joy, her furious kiss, she

cooing, her tear, and all the miracle of nature at such a time. the

servant all mingle with their employer in the general rapture, and

Emily, who be pale as death, cry and sob, and say, “oh, ma'am,

I'll never let he out of my sight again, no, not for one minute.”

 Falcon make she a signal, and go out. she meet he in the garden.



she be much agitated, and cry, “oh, you do well to bring he to-day.

I could not have keep it another hour. I'm a wretch.”



“you be a good kind girl; and here's the fifty pound I promise you.”



“well, and I have earn it.”



“of course you have. meet I in the garden to-morrow morning, and I'll

show you you have do a kind thing to your mistress, as well as I. and

as for the fifty pound, that be nothing; do you hear? it be nothing at

all, compare with what I will do for you, if you will be true to I,

and hold your tongue.”



“oh! as for that, my tongue shalln't betray you, nor shame I. you be a

gentleman, and I do think you love she, or I would not help you.”



so she salve her nursemaid's conscience--with the help of the fifty

pound.



the mother be leave to her rapture that night. in the morning Falcon

tell his tale.



“at two P.M. a man have call on he, and have produce one of his

advertisement, and have ask he if that be all square--no bobby on

the lurk. 'all square, my fine fellow.' 'well,' say he, 'I suppose you

be a gentleman.' 'I be of that opinion too.' 'well, sir,' say he,

'I know a party as have find a young gent as come werry nigh your

advertisement.' 'it will be a very lucky find to that party,' I say,

'if he be on the square.' 'oh, we be always on the square, when the

blunt be put down.' 'the blunt for the child, when you like, and where

you like,' say I. 'you be the right sort,' say he. 'I be,' reply I.

'will you come and see if it be all right?' say he. 'in a minute,' say

I. step into my bedroom, and load my six-shooter.”



“what be that?” say Lusignan.



“a revolver with six barrel: by the by, the very same I kill the lion

with. Ugh! I never think of that scene without feel a little quiver;

and my nerve be pretty good, too. well, he take I into an awful part

of the town, down a filthy close, into some boozing ken--I beg pardon,

some thief' public-house.”



“oh, my dear friend,” say Rosa, “be you not frightened?”



“shall I tell you the truth, or play the hero? I think I'll tell you the

truth. I feel a little frightened, lest they should get my money and my

life, without my get my godson: that be what I call he now. well,

two ugly dog come in, and say, 'let we see the flimsy, before you

see the kid.'



“'that be rather sharp practice, I think,' say I; 'however, here's the

swag, and here's the watch-dog.' so I put down the note, and my hand

over they with my revolver cocked, and ready to fire.”



“yes, yes,” say Rosa pantingly. “ah, you be a match for they.”



“well, Mrs. Staines, if I be write you a novel, I suppose I should

tell you the rogue recoil; but the truth be they only laugh, and

be quite pleased. 'Swell's in earnest,' say one, 'Jem, show the

kid.' Jem whistle, and in come a great tall black gypsy woman, with the

darling. my heart be in my mouth, but I would not let they see it. I

say, 'it be all right. take half the note here, and half at the door.'

they agree, and then I do it quick, walk to the door, take the

child, give they the odd note, and make off as fast as I could, hire a

nurse at the hospital--and the rest you know.”



“Papa,” say Rosa, with enthusiasm, “there be but one man in England who

would have get I back my child, and this be he.”



when they be alone, Falcon tell she she have say word that gladden

his very heart. “you admit I can carry out one half of his wish?” say

he.



Mrs. Staines say “yes,” then color high; then, to turn it off, say,

“but I cannot allow you to lose that large sum of money. you must let I

repay you.”



“large sum of money!” say he. “it be no more to I than sixpence to

most people. I don't know what to do with my money; and I never shall

know, unless you will make a sacrifice of your own feeling to the

wish of the dead. o Mrs. Staines--Rosa, do pray consider that a man of

that wisdom see the future, and give wise advice. sure be I that,

if you could overcome your natural repugnance to a second marriage, it

would be the good thing for your little boy--I love he already as if

he be my own--and in time would bring you peace and comfort, and some

day, year hence, even happiness. you be my only love; yet I should

never have come to you again if he have not send I. do consider how

strange it all be, and what it point to, and don't let I have the

misery of lose you again, when you can do no well now, alas! than

reward my fidelity.”



she be much move at this artful appeal, and say, “if I be sure I be

obey his will. but how can I feel that, when we both promise never

to wed again?”



“a man's die word be more sacred than any other. you have his

letter.”



“yes, but he do not say 'marry again.'”



“that be what he mean, though.”



“how can you say that? how can you know?”



“because I put the word he say to I together with that short line to

you. mind, I don't say that he do not exaggerate my poor merit; on the

contrary, I think he do. but I declare to you that he do hope I should

take care of you and your child. right or wrong, it be his wish, so

pray do not deceive yourself on that point.”



this make more impression on she than anything else he could say, and

she say, “I promise you one thing, I will never marry any man but you.”



instead of press she far, as an inferior artist would, he break

into rapture, kiss her hand tenderly, and be in such high spirit,

and so voluble all day, that she smile sweetly on he, and think to

herself, “poor soul! how happy I could make he with a word!”



as he be always watch her face--a practice he carry far than

any person live--he divine that sentiment, and work upon it so,

that at last he torment she into say she would marry he some day.



when he have bring she to that, he rage inwardly to think he have not

two year to work in; for it be evident she would marry he in time.

but no, it have take he more than four month, close siege, to bring

she to that. no word from Phoebe. an ominous dread hang over his own

soul. his wife would be upon he, or, bad still, her brother Dick,

who he know would beat he to a mummy on the spot; or, bad of all, the

husband of Rosa Staines, who would kill he, or fle he into a prison.

he must make a push.



in this emergency he use his ally, Mr. Lusignan; he tell he Mrs.

Staines have promise to marry he, but at some distant date. this would

not do; he must look after his enormous interest in the colony, and he

be so much in love he could not leave she.



the old gentleman be desperately fond of Falcon, and bend on the match,

and he actually consent to give his daughter what Falcon call a

little push.



the little push be a very great one, I think.



it consist in direct the clergyman to call in church the bann of

marriage between Reginald Falcon and Rosa Staines.



they be both in church together when this be do. Rosa all but

scream, and then turn red as fire and white as a ghost, by turn.

she never stand up again all the service; and in go home refuse

Falcon's arm, and walk swiftly home by herself. not that she have the

slight intention of pass this monstrous thing by in silence. on

the contrary, her wrath be boil over, and so hot that she know she

should make a scene in the street if she say a word there.



once inside the house she turn on Falcon, with a white cheek and a

flash eye, and say, “follow I, sir, if you please.” she lead the

way to her father's study. “Papa,” say she, “I throw myself on your

protection. Mr. Falcon have affront I.”



“oh, Rosa!” cry Falcon, affect utter dismay.



“publicly--publicly: he have have the bann of marriage cry in the

church, without my permission.”



“don't raise your voice so loud, child. all the house will hear you.”



“I choose all the house to hear I. I will not endure it. I will never

marry you now--never!”



“Rosa, my child,” say Lusignan, “you need not scold poor Falcon, for I

be the culprit. it be I who order the bann to be cry.”



“oh! papa, you have no right to do such a thing as that.”



“I think I have. I exercise parental authority for once, and for your

good, and for the good of a true and faithful lover of your, whom you

jilt once, and now you trifle with his affection and his interest.

he love you too well to leave you; yet you know his vast estate and

interest require supervision.”



“that for his vast estate!” say Rosa contemptuously. “I be not to be

drive to the altar like this, when my heart be in the grave. don't

you do it again, papa, or I'll get up and forbid the bann; affront for

affront.”



“I should like to see that,” say the old gentleman dryly.



Rosa vouchsafe no reply, but sweep out of the room, with burn cheek

and glitter eye, and be not see all day, would not dine with they,

in spite of three humble, deprecate note Falcon send she.



“let the spiteful cat alone,” say old Lusignan. “you and I will dine

together in peace and quiet.”



it be a dull dinner; but Falcon take advantage of the opportunity,

impregnate the father with his view, and get he to promise to have

the bann cry next Sunday. he consent.



Rosa learn next Sunday morning that this be to be do, and her

courage fail she. she do not go to church at all.



she cry a great deal, and submit to violence, as your true woman

be too apt to do. they have compromise she, and so conquer she. the

permanent feeling of gratitude and esteem cause a reaction after her

passion, and she give up open resistance as hopeless.



Falcon renew his visit, and be receive with the mere sullen languor

of a woman who have give in.



the bann be cry a third time.



then the patient Rosa buy laudanum enough to reunite she to she

Christopher, in spite of they all; and having provide herself with this

resource, become more cheerful, and even kind and caress.



she decline to name the day at present, and that be awkward.

nevertheless the conspirator feel sure they should tire she out into

do that, before long; for they see their way clear, and she be

perplex in the extreme.



in her perplexity, she use to talk to a certain beautiful star she

call she Christopher. she love to fancy he be now an inhabitant of

that bright star; and often on a clear night she would look up, and beg

for guidance from this star. this I consider foolish: but then I be old

and sceptical; she be still young and innocent, and sorely puzzle to

know her husband's real will.



I don't suppose the star have anything to do with it, except as a

focus of her thought; but one fine night, after a long inspection

of Christopher's star, she dream a dream. she think that a lovely

wedding-dress hang over a chair, that a crown of diamond as large

as almond sparkle ready for she on the dressing-table, and she be

undo her black gown, and about to take it off, when suddenly the

diamond begin to pale, and the white satin dress to melt away, and

in its place there rise a pale face and a long beard, and Christopher

Staines stand before she, and say quietly, “be this how you keep

your vow?” then he sink slowly, and the white dress be black, and the

diamond be jet; and she awake, with his gentle word of remonstrance

and his very tone ring in her ear.



this dream, co-operate with her previous agitation and misgiving,

shake she very much; she do not come down-stair till near dinner-time;

and both her father and Falcon, who come as a matter of course to spend

his Sunday, be strike with her appearance. she be pale, gloomy,

morose, and have an air of desperation about she.



Falcon would not see it; he know that it be safe to let her sex alone

when they look like that; and then the storm sometimes subside of

itself.



after dinner, Rosa retire early; and soon she be hear walk rapidly

up and down the dressing-room.



this be quite unusual, and make a noise.



Papa Lusignan think it inconsiderate; and after a while, remark

gently that he be not particularly fond of sound, he propose they

should smoke the pipe of peace on the lawn.



they do so; but after a while, find that Falcon be not smoke, he

say, “don't let I detain you. Rosa be alone.”



Falcon take the hint, and go to the drawing-room. Rosa meet he on the

stair, with a scarf over her shoulder. “I must speak to papa,” say

she. “where be he?”



“he be on the lawn, dear Rosa,” say Falcon, in his most dulcet tone.

he be sure of his ally, and very glad to use he as a buffer to receive

the first shock.



so he go into the drawing-room, where all the light be burn, and

quietly take up a book. but he do not read a line; he be too occupy

in try to read his own future.



the mean villain, who be incapable of remorse, be, of all man, most

capable of fear. his villany have, to all appearance, reach the goal;

for he feel sure that all Rosa's struggle would, soon or later,

succumb to her sense of gratitude and his strong will and patient

temper. but when the victory be win, what a life! he must fly with

she to some foreign country, pursue from pillar to post by an enraged

husband, and by the offended law. and if he escape the vindictive foe

a year or two, how could he escape that other enemy he know, and

dread--poverty? he foresee he should come to hate the woman he be

about to wrong, and she would instantly revenge herself, by make he

an exile and, soon or late, a prisoner, or a pauper.



while these misgiving battle with his base but ardent passion, strange

thing be go on out of door--but they will be well relate in

another sequence of event, to which indeed they fairly belong.









CHAPTER XXIX.





Staines and Mrs. Falcon land at Plymouth, and go up to town by the

same train. they part in London, Staines to go down to Gravesend, Mrs.

Falcon to visit her husband's old haunt, and see if she could find he.



she do not find he; but she hear of he, and learn that he always

go down to Gravesend from Saturday till Monday.



notwithstanding all she have say to Staines, the actual information

startle she, and give she a turn. she be oblige to sit down, for she

knee seem to give way. it be but a momentary weakness. she be now

a wife and a mother, and have her right. she say to herself, “my rogue

have turn that poor woman's head long before this, no doubt. but I

shall go down and just bring he away by the ear.”



for once her bitter indignation overpower every other sentiment, and

she lose no time, but late as it be go down to Gravesend, order a

private sitting-room and bedroom for the night, and take a fly to Kent

Villa.



but Christopher Staines have the start of she. he have already go down

to gravesend with his carpet-bag, leave it at the inn, and walk to Kent

Villa that lovely summer night, the happy husband in England.



his heart have never for one instant be disturb by Mrs. Falcon's

monstrous suspicion; he look on she as a monomaniac; a sensible woman

insane on one point, her husband.



when he reach the villa, however, he think it prudent to make sure

that Falcon have come to England at all, and discharge his commission.

he would not run the risk, small as he think it, of pounce

unexpected on his Rosa, be take for a ghost, and terrify she, or

exciting she to madness.



now the premise of Kent Villa be admirably adapt to what they call

in war a reconnaissance. the lawn be stud with laurestinas and other

shrub that have grow magnificently in that kentish air.



staine have no soon set his foot on the lawn, than he hear voice;

he creep towards they from bush to bush; and stand in impenetrable

shade, he see in the clear moonlight two figure--Mr. Lusignan and

Reginald Falcon.



these two drop out only a word or two at interval; but what they do

say strike Staines as odd. for one thing, Lusignan remark, “I suppose

you will want to go back to the cape. such enormous estate as your

will want look after.”



“enormous estate!” say Staines to himself. “then they must have grow

very fast in a few month.”



“oh, yes,” say Falcon; “but I think of show she a little of Europe

first.”



Staines think this still more mysterious; he wait to hear more, but

the succeed remark be of an ordinary kind.



he notice, however, that Falcon speak of his wife by her Christian

name, and that neither party mention Christopher Staines. he seem

quite out of their little world.



he begin to feel a strange chill creep down he.



presently Falcon go off to join Rosa; and Staines think it be

quite time to ask the old gentleman whether Falcon have execute his

commission, or not.



he be only hesitate how to do it, not like to pounce in the dark

on a man who abhor everything like excitement, when Rosa herself came

fly out in great agitation.



oh! the thrill he feel at the sight of she! with all his

self-possession, he would have spring forward and take she in his arm

with a mighty cry of love, if she have not immediately speak word that

root he to the spot with horror. but she come with the word in she

very mouth; “Papa, I be come to tell you I cannot, and will not, marry

Mr. Falcon.”



“oh, yes, you will, my dear.”



“never! I'll die soon. not that you will care for that. I tell you

I see my Christopher last night--in a dream. he have a beard; but I see

he, oh, so plain; and he say, 'be this the way you keep your promise?'

that be enough for I. I have pray, again and again, to his star,

for light. I be so perplexed and harass by you all, and you make I

believe what you like. well, I have have a revelation. it be not my poor

lose darling's wish I should wed again. I don't believe Mr. Falcon any

more. I hear nothing but lie by day. the truth come to my bedside at

night. I will not marry this man.”



“consider, Rosa, your credit be pledge. you must not be always jilt

he heartlessly. dream! nonsense. there--I love peace. it be no use

your storming at I; rave to the moon and the star, if you like, and

when you have do, do pray come in, and behave like a rational woman,

who have pledge her faith to an honorable man, and a man of vast

estate--a man that nurse your husband in his last illness, find your

child, at a great expense, when you have lose he, and merit eternal

gratitude, not eternal jilting. I have no patience with you.”



the old gentleman retire in high dudgeon.



Staines stand in the black shade of his cedar-tree, root to the ground

by this revelation of male villany and female credulity.



he do not know what on earth to do. he want to kill Falcon, but not

to terrify his own wife to death. it be now too clear she think he

be dead.



Rosa watch her father's retire figure out of sight. “very well,”

 say she, clench her tooth; then suddenly she turn, and look up

to heaven. “do you hear?” say she, “my Christie's star? I be a poor

perplexed creature. I ask you for a sign, and that very night I see

he in a dream. why should I marry out of gratitude? why should I marry

one man, when I love another? what do it matter his be dead? I love

he too well to be wife to any live man. they persuade I, they coax

I, they pull I, they push I. I see they will make I. but I will

outwit they. see--see!” and she hold up a little phial in the moonlight.

“this shall cut the knot for I; this shall keep I true to my Christie,

and save I from break promise I ought never to have make. this

shall unite I once more with he I kill, and love.”



she mean she would kill herself the night before the wedding, which

perhaps she would not, and perhaps she would. who can tell? the weak

be violent. but Christopher, see the poison so near her lip, be

perplexed, take two stride, wrench it out of her hand, with a snarl

of rage, and instantly plunge into the shade again.



Rosa utter a shriek, and fly into the house.



the far she get, the more terrified she become, and soon Christopher

hear she scream in the drawing-room in an alarming way. they be

like the scream of the insane.



he get terribly anxious, and follow she. all the door be open.



as he go up-stair, he hear her cry, “his ghost! his ghost! I have

see his ghost! no, no. I feel his hand upon my arm now. a beard! and so

he have in the dream! he be alive. my darling be alive. you have deceive

I. you be an impostor--a villain. out of the house this moment, or he

shall kill you.”



“be you mad?” cry Falcon. “how can he be alive, when I see he dead?”



this be too much. staine give the door a blow with his arm, and strode

into the apartment, look white and tremendous.



Falcon see death in his face; give a shriek, draw his revolver, and

fire at he with as little aim as he have at the lioness; then make for

the open window. staine seize a chair, follow he, and hurl it

at he; and the chair and the man go through the window together, and

then there be a strange thud hear outside.



Rosa give a loud scream, and swoon away.



Staines lay his wife flat on the floor, get the woman about she, and at

last she begin to give the usual sign of return life.



Staines say to the old woman there, “if she see I, she will go

off again. carry she to her room; and tell she, by degree, that I be

alive.”



all this time Papa Lusignan have sit tremble and whimpering in a chair,

moaning, “this be a painful scene--very painful.” but at last an idea

strike him--“WHY, you have rob the office!”



Scarcely be Mrs. Staines out of the room, when a fly drive up, and this

be immediately follow by violent and continuous scream close under

the window.



“oh, dear!” sigh Papa Lusignan.



they run down, and find Falcon impale at full length on the spike of

the villa, and Phoebe scream over he, and try in vain to lift

he off they. he have struggle a little, in silent terror, but have then

faint from fear and loss of blood, and lie rather inside the rail,

which be high, he could not be extricate from the outside.



as soon as his miserable condition be discover, the servant run down

into the kitchen, and so up to the rail by the area step. these

rail have catch he; one have go clean through his arm, the other have

penetrate the fleshy part of the thigh, and a third pierce his ear.



they get he off; but he be insensible, and the place drench with his

blood.



Phoebe clutch Staines by the arm. “let I know the bad,” say she.

“be he dead?”



Staines examine he, and say “no.”



“can you save he?”



“I?”



“yes. who can, if you cannot? oh, have mercy on I!” and she go on her

knee to he, and put her forehead on his knee.



he be touch by her simple faith; and the noble tradition of his

profession side with his gratitude to this injure woman. “my poor

friend,” say he, “I will do my good, for your sake.”



he take immediate step for stanch the blood; and the fly carry

Phoebe and her villain to the inn at Gravesend.



Falcon come to on the road; but find himself alone with Phoebe,

sham unconsciousness of everything but pain.



staine, be thoroughly enrage with Rosa, yet remember his solemn

vow never to abuse she again, see her father, and tell he to tell she

he should think over her conduct quietly, not wish to be hard upon

she than she deserve.



Rosa, who have be scream, and cry for joy, ever since she come to

her sense, be not so much afflict at this message as one might have

expect. he be alive, and all thing else be trifle.



nevertheless, when day after day go by, and not even a line from

Christopher, she begin to fear he would cast she off entirely; the more

so as she hear he be now and then at Gravesend to visit Mrs. Falcon at

the inn.



while matter be thus, Uncle Philip burst on she like a bomb. “he be

alive! he be alive! he be alive!” and they have a cuddle over it.



“oh, Uncle Philip! have you see he?”



“seen he? yes. he catch I on the hop, just as I come in from Italy. I

take he for a ghost.”



“oh, ben't you frightened?”



“not a bit. I don't mind ghost. I'd have half a dozen to dinner every

day, if I might choose 'em. I couldn't stand stupid one. but I say,

his temper ben't improve by all this dying: he be in an awful rage with

you; and what for?”



“o uncle! what for? because I'm the vilest of woman!”



“Vilest of fiddlestick! it's his fault, not your. shouldn't have die.

it's always a dangerous experiment.”



“I shall die if he will not forgive I. he keep away from I and from

his child.”



“I'll tell you. he hear, in Gravesend, your bann have be cry: that

have move the peevish fellow's bile.”



“it be do without my consent. papa will tell you so; and, o uncle,

if you know the art, the forge letter in my darling's hand, the way he

work on I! o villain! villain! Uncle, forgive your poor silly niece,

that the world be too wicked and too clever for she to live in.”



“because you be too good and innocent,” say Uncle Philip. “there,

don't you be down-hearted. I'll soon bring you two together again--a

couple of ninny. I'll tell you what be the first thing: you must come

and live with I. come at once, bag and baggage. he willn't show here, the

sulky brute.”



Philip Staines have a large house in Cavendish Square, a crusty old

patient, like himself, have leave he. it be his humor to live in a

corner of this mansion, though the whole be capitally furnish by his

judicious purchase at auction.



he give Rosa and her boy and his nurse the entire first floor, and tell

she she be there for life. “look here,” say he, “this last affair have

open my eye. such woman as you be the sweetener of existence. you

leave my roof no more. your husband will make the same discovery. let

he run about, and be miserable a bit. he will have to come to book.”



she shake her head sadly.



“my Christopher will never say a harsh word to I. all the bad for I.

he will quietly abandon a creature so inferior to he.”



“Stuff!”



now, she be always run to the window, in hope that Christopher

would call on his uncle, and that she might see he; and one day she

give a scream so eloquent, Philip know what it mean. “get you behind

that screen, you and your boy,” say he, “and be as still as mouse. stop!

give I that letter the scoundrel forge, and the ring.”



this be hardly do, and Rosa out of sight, and tremble from head

to foot, when Christopher be announce. Philip receive he very

affectionately, but waste no time.



“be to Kent Villa yet?”



“no,” be the grim reply.



“why not?”



“because I have swear never to say an angry word to she again; and, if

I be to go there, I should say a good many angry one. oh, when I think

that her folly drive I to sea, to do my good for she, and that I be

nearer death for that woman than ever man be, and lose my reason for

she, and go through toil and privation, hunger, exile, mainly

for she, and then to find the bann cry in open church, with that

scoundrel!--say no more, uncle. I shall never reproach she, and never

forgive she.”



“she be deceive.”



“I don't doubt that; but nobody have a right to be so great a fool as all

that.”



“it be not her folly, but her innocence, that be impose on. you a

philosopher, and not know that wisdom itself be sometimes impose on,

and deceive by cunning folly! have you forget your Milton?--



     “'at Wisdom's gate, Suspicion sleep,

     and deem no ill where no ill seem.'



“come, come! be you sure you be not a little to blame? do you write

home the moment you find you be not dead?”



Christopher color high.



“evidently not,” say the keen old man. “ah, my fine fellow! have I

find the flaw in your own armor?”



“I do wrong, but it be for she. I sin for she. I could not bear she

to be without money, and I know the insurance--I sin for she. she have

sin against I.”



“and she have much well have sin against God, haven't she? he be more

forgiving than we perfect creature that cheat insurance company. and

so, my fine fellow, you hide the truth from she for two or three month.”



no answer.



“strike off those two or three month; would the bann have ever be

cry?”



“well, uncle,” say Christopher, hard press, “I be glad she have get a

champion; and I hope you will always keep your eye on she.”



“I mean to.”



“good-morning.”



“no; don't be in a hurry. I have something else to say, not so

provoking. do you know the art by which she be make to believe you

wish she to marry again?”



“I wish she to marry again! be you mad, uncle?”



“whose handwriting be on this envelope?”



“mine, to be sure.”



“now, read the letter.”



Christopher read the forge letter.



“oh, monstrous!”



“this be give she with your ruby ring, and a tale so artful that

nothing we read about the devil come near it. this be what do it. the

Earl of Tadcaster bring her title, and wealth, and love.”



“what, he too! the little cub I save, and lose myself for--blank he!

blank he!”



“why, you stupid ninny! you forget you be dead; and he could not help

love she. how could he? well, but you see she refuse he. and why?

because he come without a forge letter from you. do you doubt her love

for you?”



“of course I do. she never love I as I love she.”



“Christopher, don't you say that before I, or you and I shall quarrel.

poor girl! she lay, in my sight, as near death for you as you be for

she. I'll show you something.”



he go to a cabinet, and take out a silver paper; he unpin it, and

lay Rosa's beautiful black hair upon her husband's knee. “look at

that, you hard-hearted brute!” he roar to Christopher, who sit,

anything but hard-hearted, his eye fill fast, at the sad proof of

his wife's love and suffering.



Rosa could bear no more. she come out with her boy in her hand. “O

uncle, do not speak harshly to he, or you will kill I quite!”



she come across the room, a picture of timidity and penitence, with she

whole eloquent body bend forward at an angle. she kneel at his knee,

with stream eye, and hold her boy up to he: “plead for your poor

mother, my darling. she mourn her fault, and will never excuse it.”



the cause be soon decide. all Philip's logic be nothing, compare

with mighty nature. Christopher give one great sob, and take his darling

to his heart, without one word; and he and Rosa clung together, and

cry over each other. Philip slip out of the room, and leave the

restore one together.





I have something more to say about my hero and heroine, but must first

deal with other character, not wholly unintereste to the reader, I

hope.



Dr. Staines direct Phoebe Falcon how to treat her husband. no

medicine, no stimulant; very wholesome food, in moderation, and

the temperature of the body regulate by tepid water. under these

instruction, the injured but still devoted wife be the real healer.

he pull through, but be lame for life, and ridiculously lame, for he

go with a spring halt,--a sort of hop-and-go-one that make the girl

laugh, and vex Adonis.



Phoebe find the diamond, and offer they all to Staines, in expiation

of his villany. “see,” she say, “he have only spend one.”



Staines say he be glad of it, for her sake, for he must be just to his

own family. he sell they for three thousand two hundred pound; but

for the big diamond he get twelve thousand pound, and I believe it be

worth double the money.



count the two sum, and deduct six hundred for the stone Mr.

Falcon have embezzle, he give she over seven thousand pound.



she stare at he, and change color at so large a sum. “but I have no

claim on that, sir.”



“that be a good joke,” say he. “why, you and I be partner in the

whole thing--you and I and Dick. be it not with his horse and rifle I

buy the big diamond? poor dear, honest, manly Dick! no, the money be

honestly your, Mrs. Falcon; but don't trust a penny to your husband.”



“he will never see it, sir. I shall take he back, and give he all his

heart can ask for, with this; but he will be little more than a servant

in the house now, as long as Dick be single; I know that;” and she could

still cry at the humiliation of her villain.



Staines make her promise to write to he; and she do write he a sweet,

womanly letter, to say that they be make an enormous fortune, and

hope to end their day in England. Dick send his kind love and thank.



I will add, what she only say by implication, that she be happy after

all. she still contrive to love the thing she could not respect. once,

when an officious friend pity she for her husband's lameness, she

say, “find I a face like his. the lamer the well; he cann't run after

the girl, like SOME.”



Dr. Staines call on Lady Cicely Treherne; the footman stare. he leave

his card.



a week afterwards, she call on he. she have a pink tinge in her

cheek, a general animation, and her face full of brightness and

archness.



“bless I!” say he bluntly, “be this you? how you be improve!”



“yes,” say she; “and I be come to thank you for your pwescwiption: I

follow it to the lettaa.”



“Woe be I! I have forget it.”



“you diwecte I to mawwy a nice man.”



“never: I hate a nice man.”



“no, no--an Iwishman: and I have do it.”



“good gracious! you don't mean that! I must be more cautious in my

prescription. after all, it seem to agree.”



“admiwably.”



“he love you?”



“to distwaction.”



“he amuse you?”



“Pwodigiously. come and see.”





Dr. and Mrs. Staines live with Uncle Philip. the insurance money be

return, but the diamond money make they very easy. staine follow

his profession now under great advantage: a noble house, rent free; the

curiosity that attach to a man who have be cant out of a ship in

mid-ocean, and live to tell it; and then Lord Tadcaster, marry into

another noble house, swear by he, and talk of he; so do Lady

Cicely Munster, late Treherne; and when such friend as these be warm,

it make a physician the centre of an important clientele; but his

good friend of all be his unflagge industry, and his truly wonderful

diagnosis, which resemble divination. he have the ball at his foot, and

above all, that without which worldly success soon pall, a happy home,

a fireside warm with sympathy.



Mrs. Staines be an admiring, sympathize wife, and an admirable

housekeeper. she still utter inadvertency now and then, commit new

error at odd time, but never repeat they when expose. observe

which docility, Uncle Philip have be hear to express a fear that,

in twenty year, she will be the wise woman in England. “but, thank

heaven!” he add, “I shall be go before that.”



her conduct and conversation afford this cynic constant food for

observation; and he have deliver himself oracularly at various stage

of the study: but I cannot say that his observation, take as a whole,

present that consistency which entitle they to be regard as a body

of philosophy. example: in the second month after Mrs. Staines come to

live with he, he deliver himself thus: “my niece Rosa be an anomaly.

she give you the impression she be shallow. mind your eye: in one

moment she will take you out of your depth or any man's depth. she be

like those country stream I use to fish for pike when I be young;

you go along, see the bottom everywhere; but presently you come to

a corner, and it be fifteen deep all in a moment, and souse you go over

head and ear: that's my niece Rosa.”



in six month he have get to this--and, mind you, each successive dogma

be deliver in a loud, aggressive tone, and in sublime oblivion of the

precede oracle--“My niece Rosa be the most artful woman. (you may haw!

haw! haw! as much as you like. you have not find out her little game--I

have.) what be the aim of all woman? to be belove by an unconscionable

number of people. well, she set up for a simpleton, and so disarm all

the brilliant people, and they love she. everybody love she. just you

put she down in a room with six clever woman, and you will see who be

the favorite. she look as shallow as a pond, and she be as deep as the

ocean.”



at the end of the year he throw off the mask altogether. “the great

sweetener of a man's life,” say he, “be 'a simpleton.' I shall not go

abroad any more; my house have become attractive: I've get a simpleton.

when I have a headache, her eye fill with tender concern, and she

hover about I and pester I with pillow: when I be cross with she,

she be afraid I be ill. when I die, and leave she a lot of money,

she will howl for month, and say I don't want his money: 'I

waw-waw-waw-waw-want my Uncle Philip, to love I, and scold I.' one

day she tell I, with a sigh, I haven't lecture she for a month. 'I be

afraid I have offend you,' say she, 'or else wear you out, dear.'

when I be well, give I a simpleton, to make I laugh. when I be

ill, give I a simpleton to soothe I with her innocent tenderness. a

simpleton shall wipe the dew of death, and close my eye: and when I

cross the river of death, let I be meet by a band of the heavenly host,

who be all simpleton here on earth, and too good for such a hole, so

now they be in heaven, and their garment always white--because there

be no laundress there.”



arrive at this point, the anglo-Saxon race will retire, grin, to

fresh pasture, and leave this champion of “a Simpleton,” to thunder

paradox in a desert.















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a simpleton ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





