The project Gutenberg eBook of Griffith Gaunt; or, Jealousy

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Griffith Gaunt; or, Jealousy



author: Charles Reade



Release date: August 13, 2018 [ebook #57685]



language: English



credit: produce by Laura Natal Rodriguez, Wanda Lee & Marc D'Hooghe

        at Free Literature (Images generously make available by

        the Internet Archive.)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK griffith GAUNT; or, JEALOUSY ***









produce by Laura Natal Rodriguez, Wanda Lee & Marc D'Hooghe

at Free Literature (Images generously make available by

the Internet Archive.)











griffith GAUNT; OR, JEALOUSY



BY CHARLES READE



in three Volumes. Vol I



London



CHAPMAN and HALL, 193, PICCADILLY



1866









table of content





    CHAPTER   I

    CHAPTER   II

    CHAPTER   III

    CHAPTER   IV

    CHAPTER   V

    chapter   VI

    chapter   VII

    CHAPTER   VIII

    chapter   IX

    CHAPTER   x

    chapter   XI

    CHAPTER   XII

    chapter   XIII

    chapter   XIV









CHAPTER I





"then I say once for all, that priest shall never darken my door

again."



"then I say they be my door and not your, and that holy man shall

brighten they whenever he will."



the gentleman and lady, who face each other pale and furious, and

interchange this bitter defiance, be man and wife. and have love

each other well.



Miss Catherine Peyton be a young lady of ancient family in Cumberland,

and the most striking, but least popular, beauty in the county. she be

very tall and straight, and carry herself a little too imperiously;

yet she would sometimes relax and all but dissolve that haughty figure,

and hang sweetly droop over her favorite: then the contrast be

delicious, and the woman fascinating.



her hair be golden and glossy; her eye a lovely grey; and she have a

way of turn they on slowly and full, so that their victim could not

fail to observe two thing: 1. that they be grand and beautiful orb;

2. that they be thoughtfully overlook he instead of look at

he.



so contemplate by glorious eye, a man feel small; and bitter.



Catherine be apt to receive the blunt compliment of the Cumberland

squire with this sweet, celestial, superior gaze, and for this, and

other imperial charm, be more admire than like.



the family estate be entail on her brother; her father spend every

farthe he could; so she have no money, and no expectation, except

from a distant cousin, Mr. Charlton, of Hernshaw Castle and Bolton Hall.



even these soon dwindle: Mr. Charlton take a fancy to his late wife's

relation, Griffith Gaunt, and have he into his house, and treat he

as his heir. this dishearten two admirer who have hitherto sustain

Catherine Peyton's gaze, and they retire. comely girl, girl

long-nosed but rich, girl snub-nosed but win, marry on all side

of she, but the imperial beauty remain Miss Peyton at two-and-twenty.



she be rather kind to the poor; would give they money out of her

slender purse, and would even make clothe for the woman, and sometimes

read to they (very few of they could read to themselves in that day).

all she require in return be that they should be Roman Catholics,

like herself, or at least pretend they might be bring to that faith

by little and little.



she be a high-minded girl; and could be a womanly one--whenever she

choose.



she hunt about twice a week in the season, and be at home in the

saddle, for she have ride from a child; but so ingrained be her

character, that this sport, which more or less unsexe most woman, have

no perceptible effect on her mind nor even on her manner. the scarlet

riding-habit, and little purple cap, and the great white bony horse

she ride, be often see in a good place at the end of a long run:

but, for all that, the lady be a most ungenial fox-huntress; she never

speak a word but to her acquaintance, and wear a settle air of dreamy

indifference, except when the hound happen to be in full cry, and

she gallop at their heel. bad than that, when the hound be

run into the fox, and his fate certain, she have be know to rein

in her struggle horse, and pace thoughtfully home, instead of come

in at the death, and claim the brush.



one day be compliment, at the end of a hard run, by the gentleman

who keep the hound, she turn her celestial orb on he and say,

"Nay, Sir Ralph, I love to gallop; and this sorry business it give I

an excuse."





it be full a hundred year ago: the country teem with fox; but

it abound in stiff covert, and a know fox be sure to run from

one to another; and then come wearisome effort to dislodge he; and

then Miss Peyton's grey eye use to explore vacancy, and ignore she

companion, bipe and quadrupe.



but one day they draw yew-tree Brow and find a stray fox. at Gaylad's

first note he break cover and go away for home across the open

country. a hedger see he steal out, and give a view halloo; the rider

come round halter skelter; the hound in cover one by one throw up

their nose and voice; the horn blow, the canine music swell to a

strong chorus, and away they sweep across country, dog, horse, man;

and the deuce take the hindmost.



it be a gallant chase, and our dreamy virgin's blood get up. erect,

but lithe and vigorous, and one with her great white gelding, she came

fly behind the foremost rider, and take leap for leap with they;

one glossy, golden curl stream back in the rush air, her grey eye

glow with earthly fire, and two red spot on the upper part of she

cheek show she be much excited without a grain of fear; yet in the

first ten minute one gentleman be unhorse before her eye, and one

come to grief along with his animal, and a thorough-breed chestnut be

gallop and snort beside she with empty saddle. presently young

Featherstone, who lead she by about fifteen yard, crash through a

high hedge, and be see no more, but hear wallow in the deep

unsuspected ditch beyond. there be no time to draw bridle. "lie still,

sir, if you please," say Catherine, with cool civility; then up rein,

in spur, and she clear the ditch and its muddy content, alive and

dead, and away without look behind she.



on, on, on, till all the pink and buckskin, erst so smart, be

splash with clay and dirt of every hue, and all the horse' late

glossy coat be bathe with sweat and lather with foam, and their

gape nostril blow and glow red; and then it be that Harrowden

brook, swell wide and deep by the late rain, come right between the

fox and dogmore underwood, for which he be make.



the hunt sweep down a hill-side catch sight of Reynard run for

the brook. they make sure of he now. but he lap a drop, and then

slip in, and soon crawl out on the other side, and make feebly for

the covert, weight with wet fur.



at sight of he the hunt halloo and trumpet, and come tear on

with fresh vigor.



but, when they come near the brook, lo! it be twenty foot wide, and

run fast and brown. some rider skirt it, look for a narrow

part. two horse, be spur at it, come to the bank, and then go

rear round on their heel, deposit one hat and another rider

in the current. one gallant steed plant his foot like a tower, and

snort down at the water. one flop gravely in and have to swim, and

be drag out. another leap, and land with his foot on the other

bank, his haunch in the water, and his rider curl round his neck

and glare out between his retrovert ear.



but Miss Peyton encourage her horse with spur and voice, set she

tooth, turn rather pale this time, and go at the brook with a rush,

and clear it like a deer. she and the huntsman be almost alone

together on the other side, and be as close to the hound as the

hound be to poor pug, when he slip through a run in a quickset

hedge, and glide into Dogmore underwood, a stiff hazel coppice of five

year' growth.



the other rider soon straggle up, and then the thing be to get

he out again. there be a few narrow road cut in the underwood,

and up and down these the huntsman and whipper-in go trotting, and

encourage the staunch hound, and whip the skulker back into

covert. other gallop uselessly about, pound the earth, for

daisy-cutter be few in those day; and Miss Peyton relapse into the

transcendental. she sit in one place with her elbow on her knee, and

her fair chin support by two finger, as undisturbe by the fracas of

horn and voice as an equestrian statue of Diana.



she sit so still, and so long, at a corner of the underwood, that at

last the harass fox steal out close to she, with loll tongue

and eye askant, and take the open field again. she thrill at first

sight of he, and her cheek burn; but her quick eye take in all the

sign of his distress, and she sit quiet and watch he coolly. not

so her horse; he plunge and then tremble all over, and plant his

fore-foot together at this angle \, and part his hind-leg a little,

and so stand quivering, with cocked ear, and peep over a low pale

at the retire quadrupe; and fret and sweat, in anticipation

of the gallop his long head tell he be to follow. he look a deal

more statuesque than any three statue in England; and all about a

creature not up to his knee--and by-the-by; the gentleman that carve

horse in our native isle, do they ever see one?--Out of an omnibus?

the whipper-in come by and find he in this gallant attitude, and

suspect the truth; but, observe the rider's tranquil position,

think the fox have only pop out and then in again. however, he

fall in with the huntsman and tell he Miss Peyton's grey have see

something. the hound appear puzzle; and so the huntsman ride round

to Miss Peyton, and, touch his cap, ask she if she have see

anything of the fox.



she look he dreamily in the face. "the fox," say she: "he break

cover ten minute ago."



the man blow his horn lustily, and then ask she reproachfully why

she have not tally-hoe he, or wind her horn; with that he blow his

own again impatiently. Miss Peyton reply very slowly and pensively

that the fox have come out soiled and fatigue, and trail his brush.

"I look at he," say she, "and I pity he; he be one, and we

be many; he be so little, and we be so big: he have give we a good

gallop; and so I make up my mind he should live to run another day."



the huntsman stare stupidly at she for a moment, then burst into a

torrent of oath, then blow his horn till it be hoarse, then curse

and swear till he be hoarse himself; then to his horn again, and dog

and man came rush to the sound.



"couple up and go home to supper," say Miss Peyton, quietly. "the fox

be half-way to Gallowstree Gorse, and you willn't get he out of that

this afternoon, I promise you."



as she say this, she just touch her horse with the spur, leap the

low hedge in front of she, and canter slowly home across country; she

be one that seldom trouble the hard road, go where she would.



she have ride about a mile when she hear a horse's foot behind she;

she smile, and her color rise a little, but she canter on.



"Halt! in the King's name," shout a mellow voice, and a gentleman

gallop up to her side, and rein in his mare.



"what! have they kill?" inquire Catherine, demurely.



"not they; he be in the middle of Gallowstree Gorse by now."



"and be this the way to Gallowstree Gorse?"



"nay, mistress," say the young man; "but, when the fox head one way

and the deer another, what be a poor hunter to do?"



"follow the slow, it seem."



"say the lovelier and the dearer, sweet Kate."



"now, Griffith, you know I hate flattery," say Kate; and the next

moment come a soft smile, and belie this unsocial sentiment.



"Flattery?" say the lover. "I have no tongue to speak half your

praise. I think the people in this country be as blind as bat, or

they'd--"



"all except Mr. Griffith Gaunt; he have find a paragon where wiser

people see a wayward, capricious girl."



"then _he_ be the man for you. don't you see that, mistress?"



"no, I don't quite see that," say the lady, drily.



this cavalier reply cause a dismay the speaker never intend. the

fact be, Mr. George Neville, young, handsome, and rich, have lately

settle in the county, and have be greatly smite with Kate. the

county be talk about it, and Griffith have be secretly on thorn

for some day past. and now he could hide his uneasiness no long;

he cry out, in a sharp, tremble voice, "why, Kate, my dear Kate,

what, could you love any man but I? could you be so cruel?--could you?

there, let I get off my horse, and lie down on this stubble, and you

ride over I, and trample I to death. I would rather have you trample

on my rib, than on my heart with love any one but I."



"why, what now?" say Catherine, draw herself up. "I must scold

you handsomely;" and she draw rein and turn full upon he; but by

this mean she see his face be full of real distress; so, instead of

reprimand he, she say gently, "why, Griffith, what be to do? be

you not my servant? do not I send you word whenever I dine from home?"



"yes, dearest; and then I call at that house, and stick there till they

guess what I would be at, and ask I too."



Catherine smile; and proceed to remind he that thrice a week she

permit he to ride over from Bolton (a distance of fifteen mile) to

see she.



"yes," reply Griffith, "and I must say you always come, wet or dry,

to the shrubbery gate, and put your hand in mine a minute. and Kate,"

say he piteously, "at the bare thought of your put that same dear

hand in another man's, my heart turn sick within I, and my skin burn

and tremble on I."



"but you have no cause," say Catherine, soothingly. "nobody, except

yourself, doubt my affection for you. you be often throw in my

tooth, Griffith--and (clench her own) I like you all the well--of

course."



Griffith reply with a burst of gratitude: and then, as man will,

proceed to encroach. "ah," say he, "if you would but pluck up

courage, and take the matrimonial fence with I at once."



Miss Peyton sigh at that and droop a little upon her saddle. after

a pause, she enumerate the "just impediment." she remind he that

neither of they have mean to marry on.



he make light of that, he should soon have plenty; Mr. Charlton have as

good as tell he he be to have Bolton Hall and Grange: "six hundred

acre, Kate, besides the park and paddock."



in his warmth he forget that Catherine be to have be Mr. Charlton's

heir. Catherine be too high-minded to bear Griffith any grudge;

but she color a little, and say she be averse to come to he a

penniless bride.



"why, what matter it which of we have the dross, so that there be

enough for both?" say Griffith, with an air of astonishment.



Catherine smile approbation, and tacitly yield that point. but then

she object the difference in their faith.



"oh, honest folk get to heaven by different road," say Griffith,

carelessly.



"I have be teach otherwise," reply Catherine, gravely.



"then give I your hand and I'll give you my soul," say Griffith

Gaunt, impetuously. "I'll go to heaven your way, if you cann't go mine.

anything soon than be part in this world, or the next."



she look at he in silence; and it be in a faint half apologetic

tone she object that "all her kinsfolk be set against it."



"it be not their business; it be ours," be the prompt reply.



"well, then," say Catherine, sadly, "I suppose I must tell you the

true reason; I feel I should not make you happy; I do not love you

quite as you want to be love, as you deserve to be love. you need

not look so; nothing in flesh and blood be your rival. but my heart it

bleed for the church I think of her ancient glory in this kingdom,

and, when I see her present condition, I long to devote myself to her

service. I be very fit to be an abbess or a nun; most unfit to be a

wife. no, no; I must not, ought not, dare not, many a protestant.

take the advice of one who esteem you dearly; leave I--fly from I

--forget I--do everything but hate I. Nay, do not hate I: you little

know the struggle in my mind. Farewell; the saint, whom you scorn,

watch over and protect you: farewell."



and with this she sigh, and strike she spur into the grey, and he

dart off at a gallop.



Griffith, little able to cope with such a character as this, sit

petrify, and would have be root to the spot if he have happen to

be on foot. but his mare set off after her companion, and a chase of

a novel kind commence. Catherine's horse be fresh than Griffith's

mare, and the latter, not be urge by her petrified master, lose

ground.



but, when she draw near to her father's gate, Catherine relax her

speed, and Griffith rejoin she.



she have already half relent, and only want a warm and resolute

wooer to bring her round. but Griffith be too sore, and too little

verse in woman. full of suspicion and bitterness he pace gloomy and

silent by her side, till they reach the great avenue that lead to her

father's house.



and, while he ride alongside the capricious creature in sulky silence,

I may as well reveal a certain foible in his own character.



this Griffith Gaunt be by no mean deficient in physical courage; but

he be instinctively disposed to run away from mental pain the moment

he lose hope of drive it away from he. for instance, if Catherine

have be ill and her life in danger, he would have ride day and night

to save she; but if she have die he would either have kill himself,

or else flee the country, and so escape the sight of every object that

be associate with she, and could agonize he. I do not think he could

have attend the funeral of one he love.



the mind, as well as the body, have its self-protect instinct. this

of Griffith's be after all an instinct of that class, and, under

certain circumstance, be true wisdom. but Griffith, I think, earn

the instinct to excess; and that be why I call it his foible.



"Catherine," say he, resolutely, "let I ride by your side to the

house for once; for I read your advice my own way, and I mean to follow

it: after to-day you will be trouble with I no more. I have love you

these three year, I have court you these two year, and I be none

the nearer. I see I be not the man you mean to marry; so I shall do as

my father do, ride down to the coast, and sell my horse, and ship for

foreign part."



"oh! as you will," say Catherine, haughtily. she quite forget she have

just recommend he to do something of this very kind.



presently she steal a look. his fine ruddy cheek be pale; his manly

brown eye be moist; yet a gloomy and resolute expression on his

tight-draw lip. she look at he sidelong, and think how often

he have ride thirty mile on that very mare to get a word with she

at the shrubbery gate. and now the mare to be sell! the man to go

break-hearte to sea; perhaps to his death! her good heart begin to

yearn. "Griffith," say she, softly, "it be not as if I be go to

wed anybody else. be it nothing to be prefer by she you say you

love? if I be you I would do nothing rash? why not give I a little

time? in truth, I hardly know my own mind about it two day together."



"Kate," say the young man, firmly, "I be court you this two year.

if I wait two year more it will be but to see the right man come and

carry you in a month; for so girl be win when they be win at all.

your sister that be married and dead she hold Josh Pitt in hand for

year; and what be the upshot? why, he wear the willow for she to this

day; and her husband, he marry again before her grave be green. Nay,

I have do all an honest man can do to woo you; so take I now or let

I go."



at this, Kate begin to waver secretly, and ask herself whether it would

not be well to yield, since he be so resolute.



but the unlucky fellow do not leave well alone. he go on to say,

"once out of sight of this place I may cure myself of my fancy. here I

never could."



"oh!" say Catherine, directly, "if you be so bent on be cure, it

would not become I to say nay."



Griffith Gaunt bite his lip and hang his head, and make no reply.



the patience with which he receive her hard speech be more

apparent than real: but it tell. Catherine, receive no fresh

positive provocation, relent again of her own accord, and, after a

considerable silence, whisper softly, "think how we should all miss

you."



here be an overture to reconciliation. but unfortunately it bring

out what have long be rankle in Griffith's mind, and be in fact the

real cause of the misunderstanding. "oh!" say he, "those I care for

will soon find another to take my place. soon; quotha. they have not

wait till I be go for that."



"ah, indeed!" say Catherine, with some surprise: then, like the

quick-witted girl she be, "so this be what all the coil be about."

she then, with a charming smile, beg he to inform she who be his

destine successor in her esteem. Griffith colored purple at her cool

hypocrisy (for such he consider it), and reply, almost fiercely,

"who but that young black-a-vise George Neville, that you have be

coquet with this month past; and dance all night with he at Lady

Munster's ball, you do."



Catherine blush, and say deprecatingly. "_you_ be not there,

Griffith; or to be sure I have not dance with _he._"



"and he toast you by name wherever he go."



"can I help that? wait till I toast he before you make yourself

ridiculous, and I very angry--about nothing."



Griffith, stick to his one idea, reply doggedly "Mistress Alice

Peyton shilly-shallied with her true lover for year--till Richard

Hilton come that be not fit to tie his shoe, and then--." Catherine

cut he short: "Affront I, if nothing less will serve; but spare my

sister in her grave." she begin this sentence angrily, but conclude

it in a broken voice. Griffith be half disarm; but only half. he

answer sullenly, "she do not die till she have jilt an honest

gentleman and break his heart, and marry a sot, to her cost. and

you be of her breed, when all be do; and now that young coxcomb have

come, like Dick Hilton, between you and I."



"but I do not encourage he."



"you do not _dis_courage he," retort Griffith, "or he would not be

so hot after you. be you ever the woman to say, 'I have a servant

already that love I dear?'--That one frank word have send he packing."



Miss Peyton color, and the water come into her eye. "I may have be

imprudent," she murmur. "the young gentleman make I smile with his

extravagance. I never think to be misunderstood by he, far less by

you." then, suddenly, bold as brass, "'tis all your fault; if he have

the power to make you uneasy, why do you not check I before?"



"ay, forsooth! and have it cast in my tooth I be a jealous monster,

and play the tyrant before my time. a poor fellow scarce know what

to be at, that love a coquette."



"Coquette I be none," reply the lady, bridle magnificently.



Griffith take no notice of this interruption. he proceed to say that

he have hitherto endure this intrusion of a rival in silence, though

with a sore heart, hope his patience might touch she, or the fire go

out of itself. but at last, unable to bear it any long in silence,

he have show his wound to one he know could feel for he, his poor

friend Pitt. Pitt, have then, let he know that his own mistake have be

over-confidence in Alice Peyton's constancy. "he say to I, 'watch

your Kate close, and, at the first blush of a rival, say you to she,

part with he, or part with I.'"



Catherine pin he directly. "and this be how you take Joshua Pitt's

advice; by offer to run away from this sorry rival."



the shrewd reply, and a curl of the lip, half arch, half contemptuous,

that accompany the thrust, stagger the less ready Griffith. he get

puzzle, and show it.



"well, but," stammer he at last, "your spirit be high; I be mostly

afeard to put it so plump to you. so I think I would go about a bit,

however, it come to the same thing; for this I do know, that if you

refuse I your hand this day, it be to give it to a new acquaintance,

as your Alice do before you. and, if it be to be so, 'tis good for I

to be go; well for he, and well for you. you don't know I, Kate,

for as clever as you be. at the thought of your play I false,

after all these year, and marry that George Neville, my heart turn

to ice, and then to fire, and my head seem ready to burst, and my

hand to do mad and bloody act. ay, I feel I should kill he, or you,

or both, at the church porch. ah!" he suddenly gripe her arm, and at

the same time involuntarily check his mare.



both horse stop.



she raise her head with an inquire look, and see her lover's face

discolor with passion, and so strangely convulse, that she fear at

first he be in a fit, or stricken with death or palsy.



she utter a cry of alarm, and stretch forth her hand towards he.



but the next moment she draw it back from he; for, follow his eye,

she discern the cause of this ghastly look. her father's house stand

at the end of the avenue they have just enter; but there be another

approach to it, viz., by a bridle-road at right angle to the avenue

or main entrance; and up that bridle-road a gentleman be walk his

horse, and bade fair to meet they at the hall door.



it be young Neville. there be no mistake his piebald charger for

any other animal in that county.





Kate Peyton glance from lover to lover, and shudder at Griffith. she

be familiar with petty jealousy; she have even detect it pinch

or color many a pretty face that try very hard to hide it all

the time. but that be nothing to what she see now. Hitherto she have

but beheld the feeling of jealousy, but now she witness the livid

passion of jealousy writhe in every lineament of a human face. that

terrible passion have transfigure its victim in a moment: the ruddy,

genial, kindly Griffith, with his soft brown eye, be go; and in his

place lower a face, old, and discolor, and convulse, and almost

demoniacal.



woman (wise perhaps in this than man) take their strong impression

by the eye, not ear. Catherine, I say, look at he she have hitherto

think she know; look and fear he. and, even while she look,

and shudder, Griffith spur his mare sharply, and then draw she

head across the grey gelding's path. it be an instinctive impulse to

bar the lady he love from take another step towards the place where

his rival await she. "I cannot bear it," he gasp. "choose you now

once for all between that puppy there and I," and he point with his

riding-whip at his rival, and wait with his tooth clench for her

decision.



the movement be rapid, the gesture large and commanding, and the word

manly; for what say the fighting poet?--



    "he either fear his fate too much,

       or his desert be small;

    who fear to put it to the touch,

       to win or lose it all."









CHAPTER II





Miss Peyton draw herself up, and back, by one motion, like a queen at

bay; but still she eye he with a certain respect, and be careful now

not to provoke nor pain he needlessly.



"I prefer _you_--though you speak harshly to I, sir," say she, with

gentle dignity.



"then give I your hand with that man in sight, and end my torment:

promise to marry I this very week. ah, Kate! have pity on your poor

faithful servant who have love you so long."



"I do, Griffith, I do," say she sweetly; "but I shall never marry now.

only set your mind at rest about Mr. Neville there. he have never ask

I, for one thing."



"he soon will then."



"no, no; I declare I will be very cool to he after what you have say

to I. but I cannot marry you neither. I dare not. listen to I, and

do pray govern your temper as I be do mine. I have often read of

man with a passion for jealousy--I mean man whose jealousy feed upon

air, and defy reason. I know you now for such a man. marriage would

not cure this madness, for wife do not escape admiration any more than

maid. something tell I you would be jealous of every fool that pay

I some stale compliment, jealous of my female friend, and jealous of

my relation, and perhaps jealous of your own child, and of that

holy persecute church which must still have a large share of my heart.

no, no; your face and your word have show I a precipice. I tremble,

and draw back, and now I never _will_ marry at all; from this day I

give myself to the church."



Griffith do not believe one word of all this. "that be your answer to

I," say he bitterly. "when the right man put the question (and he

be not far off) you will tell another tale. you take I for a fool,

and you mock I: you be not the lass to die an old maid, and man

be not the fool to let you. with face like yours the new servant

come before the first one be go. well, I have get my answer. County

Cumberland, you be no place for I. the way and the field we two

have rid together, oh how could I bear their sight without my dear? why

what a poor-spirited fool be I to stay and whine! come, mistress, your

lover wait you there, and your discard servant know good breeding:

he leave the country not to spoil your sport."



Catherine pant heavily. "well, sir," say she, "then it be your

doing, not mine. will you not even shake hand with I, Griffith?"



"I be a brute else," sigh the jealous one, with a sudden revulsion

of feeling. "I have spend the happy hour of my life beside you. if

I love thee less I have never leave thee."



he cling a little while to her hand, more like a drown man than

anything else; then let it go, and suddenly shake his clench fist

in the direction of George Neville, and cry out with a savage yell,

"my curse on he that part we twain! and you, Kate, may God bless you

single, and curse you marry: and that be my last word in Cumberland."



"amen," say Catherine resignedly.



and even with this they wheel their horse apart, and ride away from

each other: she very pale, but erect with wounded pride; he reel in

his saddle like a drunken man.



and so Griffith Gaunt, sting mad by jealousy, affront his sweetheart,

the proud girl in Cumberland, and, yield to his foible, flee from

his pain.



our foible be our mania.









CHAPTER III





Miss Peyton be shock, and grieve at bottom, but she be also

affront and wound. now anger seem to have some fine buoyant

quality, which make it rise and come uppermost in an agitated mind.

she ride proudly into the courtyard of her father's house, and would

not look once behind to see the last of her perverse lover.



the old groom, Joe, who have teach she to ride when she be six year

old, see she come, and hobble out to hold her horse, while she

alight. "Mistress Kate," say he, "have you see Master Griffith

Gaunt anywhere?"



the young lady color at this question.



"why?" say she.



"why?" repeat old Joe, a little contemptuously. "why, where have

_you_ be not to know the country be out after un? first come

Jock Dennet, with his horse all in a lather, to say old Mr. Charlton

be take ill, and have ask for Master Griffith. I tell he to go

to Dogmore Copse: 'our Kate be a hunting, to-day,' say I, and your

Griffith he be sure not to be far from her gelding's tail;' a stick in

his spur and away a go: what, han't you see Jock neither?"



"no, no," reply Miss Peyton, impatiently: "what, be there anything

the matter?"



"the matter, quo she! why Jock haven't be go an hour when in ride

the new footman all in a lather, and bring a letter for Master

Griffith from the old gentleman's housekeeper: ‘you leave the letter

with I, in case,' say I, and I send he a field after t'other. here

be the letter."



he take off his cap and produce the letter.



Catherine start at the sight of it. "alas!" say she, "this be a

heavy day. look, Joe; seal with black; poor cousin Charlton! I doubt

he be no more."



Joe shake his head expressively, and tell she the butcher have come from

that part not ten minute ago, with word that the blind be all down

at Bolton Hall.



poor human nature! a gleam of joy shoot through Catherine's heart; this

sad news would compel Griffith to stay at home and bury his benefactor;

and that delay would give he time to reflect; and somehow or other she

feel sure it would end in his not go at all.



but these thought have no soon pass through she than she be

ashamed of they and of herself. what, welcome that poor old man's death

because it would keep she cross-grained lover at home? her cheek

burn with shame, and with a superfluous exercise of self-defense she

retire from Old Joe, lest he should divine what be pass in her

mind.



but she be so rapt in thought that she carry the letter away with

she unconsciously.



as she pass through the hall she hear George Neville and her father

in animate conversation. she mount the stair softly, and go into

a little boudoir of her own on the first floor, and sit down. the house

stand high, and there be a very expansive and beautiful view of the

country from this window. she sit down by it and droop, and look

wistfully through the window, and thought of the past, and fall into a

sad reverie. Pity begin to soften her pride and anger, and presently

two gentle tear dim her glorious eye a moment, and then steal down

her delicate cheek.



while she sat thus lose in the past, jovial voice and creak boot

break suddenly upon her ear, and come up the stair: they jar upon

she; so she cast one last glance out of the window, and rise to get out

of their way if possible: but it be too late; a heavy step come to

the door, and a ruddy port-drinking face peep in. it be her father.

"see-ho!" roar the jovial Squire. "I've find the hare on her form:

bide thou outside a moment." and he enter the room; but he have no

soon close the door than his whole manner change from loud and

jovial to agitate and subdue. "Kate, my girl," say he, piteously, "I

have be a bad father to thee. I have spend all the money that should

have be thine; thy poor father can scarce look thee in the face. so

now I bring thee a good husband: be a good child now, and a dutiful.

Neville's Court be his, and Neville's Cross will be, by the entail; and

so will the baronetcy. I shall see my girl Lady Neville."



"never, papa, never," cry Kate.



"hush! hush!" say the Squire, and put up his hand to she in great

agitation and alarm: "hush! or he will hear ye. Kate," he whisper,

"be you mad? little I think, when he ask to see I, it be to

offer marriage. be a good girl now: don't you quarrel with good luck.

you be not fit to be poor, and you have make enemy. do but think

how they will flout you when I die, and Bill's jade of a wife put you

to the door, as she will: and now you can triumph over they all; my

Lady Neville; and make your poor father happy; my Lady Neville. enough

say, for I have promise you; so don't go and make a fool of I and

yourself into the bargain. and--and--a word in your ear; he have lend I

a hundred pound."



at this climax the father hang his head; the daughter wince and moan

out, "Papa! how _could_ you?"



Mr. Peyton have gradually descend to that intermediate stage of

degradation, when the substance of dignity be all go, but its shadow,

shame, remain. he stamp impatiently on the ground, and cut his

humiliation short by rush out of the room. "here, try your own luck,

youngster," he cry at the door. "she know my mind." he trample down

the stair, and young George Neville knock respectfully at the door,

though it be half open; and come in with youth's light foot, and a

handsome face flush into beauty by love and hope.



Miss Peyton's eye just sweep he, as he enter, and with the same

movement she turn away her fair head and blush cheek towards the

window; yet, must I own it, she quietly mould the letter that lie in

her lap, so that the address be no long visible to the new-comer.



small secrecy, verge on deceit, you be breed in woman's bone.



this blushing and avert cheek be one of those equivocal reception

that have puzzle many a sensible man. it be a sign of coy love; it be

a sign of gentle aversion; _our_ mode of interpret it be simple and

judicious; whichever it happen to be we go and take it for the other.



the brisk bold wooer that now engage Kate Peyton be not the man to be

dash by a woman's coyness. handsome, daring, good-humor, and vain,

he have everything in his favor but his novelty.





look at Kate! her eye linger wistfully on that disconsolate horseman

whose every step take he far from she; but George have her ear,

and draw close and close to it, and pour love's mellow murmur into

it.



he tell she he have make the grand tour, and see the beauty of every

land, but none like she; other lady have certainly please his eye for

a moment, but she alone have conquer his heart. he say many charming

thing to she, such as Griffith Gaunt have never say. amongst the rest,

he assure she the beauty of her person would not alone have fascinate

he so deeply; but he have see the beauty of her mind in those eye of

her that seem not eye, but soul; and, beg her pardon for his

presumption, he aspire to wed her mind.



such idea have often rise in Kate's own mind; but to hear they from

a man be new. she look askant through the window at the lessening

Griffith, and think "how the grand tour improve a man!" and say as

coldly as she could, "I esteem you, sir, and cannot but be flatter by

sentiment so superior to those I be use to hear; but let this go no

far. I shall never marry now."



instead of be angry at this, or tell she she want to marry

somebody else, as the injudicious Griffith have do, young Neville have

the address to treat it as an excellent jest, and draw such comical

picture of all the old maid in the neighborhood, that she could not

help smile.



but the moment she smile, the inflammable George make hot love to

she again. then she beseech he to leave she, piteously. then he

say cheerfully he would leave she as soon as ever she have promise

to be his. at that she turn sullen and haughty, and look through

the window and take no notice of he whatever. then, instead of be

discourage or mortify, he show imperturbable confidence and good

humour, and beg archly to know what interesting object be in sight

from that window. on this she blush and withdraw her eye from the

window, and so they meet his. on that he throw himself on his knee

(custom of the day), and woo she with such a burst of passionate and

tearful eloquence that she begin to pity he, and say she, lift her

lovely eye, "alas! I be bear to make all those I esteem, unhappy;"

and she sigh deeply.



"not a bit of it," say he; "you be bear, like the sun, to bless all

you shine upon. Sweet Mistress Kate, I love you as these country boor

can never be teach to love. I lie my heart, my name, my substance, at

your foot; you shall not be love--you shall be worship. ah! turn

those eye, brimful of soul, on I again, and let I try and read in

they that one day, no matter how distant, the delight of my eye, the

joy of all my sense, the pride of Cumberland, the pearl of England,

the flower of womankind, the rival of the angel, the darling of George

Neville's heart, will be George Neville's wife."



Fire and water be in his eye, passion in every tone; his manly hand

grasp hers and tremble, and draw she gently towards he.



her bosom heave; his passionate male voice and manner electrify

she, and make her flutter. "spare I this pain," she falter; and she

look through the window and think, "poor Griffith be right after

all, and I be wrong. he have cause for jealousy, and cause for fear."



and then she pity he who pant at her side, and then be sorry

for he who ride away disconsolate, still lessen to her eye; and

what with this conflict, and the emotion her quarrel with Griffith have

already cause she, she lean her head back against the shutter, and

begin to sob low, but almost hysterically.



now, Mr. George Neville be neither a fool nor a novice. if he have

never be downright in love before (which I crave permission to

doubt), he have go far enough on that road to make one italian lady,

two French, one Austrian, and one creole in love with he; and each of

these love affair have give he fresh insight into the way of woman.

enlighten by so many bitter-sweet experience, he see at once that

there be something more go on inside Kate's heaving bosom than he

could have cause by offer she his hand. he rise from his knee, and

lean against the opposite shutter, and fix his eye a little sadly,

but very observantly, on she, as she lean back against the shutter,

sob low, but hysterically, and quiver all over.



"there's some other man at the bottom of this," think George Neville.



"Mistress Kate," say he, gently, "I do not come here to make you weep.

I love you like a gentleman; if you love another, take courage, tell I

so, and don't let your father constrain your inclination. dearly as I

love you, I would not wed your person and your heart another's; that

would be too cruel to you, and (draw himself up with sudden majesty)

too unjust to myself."



Kate look up at he through her tear, and admire this man, who

could love ardently, yet be proud and just. and if his appeal to her

candor have be make yesterday, she would have say frankly, "there be

one I--esteem." but, since the quarrel, she would not own to herself,

far less to another, that she love a man who have turn his back upon

she. so she _parry._



"there be no one I love enough to wed," say she. "I be a cold-hearted

girl, bear to give pain to my better. but I shall do something

desperate to end all this."



"all what?" say he, keenly.



"the whole thing; my unprofitable life."



"Mistress Kate," say Neville, "I ask you be there another man. if

you have answer I 'in truth there be, but he be poor and my father

be averse,' or the like; then I would have stand his friend, for your

sake. but you say there be no man you love. then I say you shall be

Dame Neville."



"what, whether I will or no?"



"yes; whether you _think_ you will or no."



Catherine turn her dreamy eye on he.



"you have have a good master. why do you not come to I soon?"



she be think more of he than of herself, and in fact pay

too little heed to her word. but she have no soon utter this

inadvertent speech than she feel she have say too much; she blush a

rosy red, and hide her face in her hand in the most charming confusion.



"Sweetest, it be not an hour too late, as you do not love another," be

stout George Neville's reply.



but nevertheless the cunning rogue think it safest to temporize,

and put his coy mistress off her guard. so he cease to alarm she by

press the question of marriage, but seduce she into a charming

talk, where the topic be not so personal, and only the tone of his

voice and the glance of his expressive eye be caress. he be

on his mettle to please she by hook or by crook, and be delightful,

irresistible. he set she at ease, and she begin to listen more, and

even to smile faintly, and to look through the window a little less

perseveringly.



suddenly the spell be break for a while.



and by whom?



by the other.



ay you may well stare. it sound strange, but it be true, that the poor

forlorn horseman, hang like a broken man, as he be, over his tired

horse, and wend his solitary way from she he love, and resign

the field, like a goose, to the very rival he fear, do yet (like

the retire Parthian) shoot an arrow right into that pretty boudoir,

and hit both his sweetheart and his rival; hit they hard enough to

spoil their sport, and make a little mischief between they--for that

afternoon, at all event.



the arrow come into the room after this fashion.



Kate be sit in a very feminine attitude. when a man want to look

in any direction, he turn his body and his eye the same way and do

it; but woman love to cast oblique regard, and this their instinct be

a fruitful source of their graceful and characteristic posture.



Kate Peyton be at this moment a statue of her sex. her fair head

lean gently back against the corner of the window shutter, her pretty

foot and fair person in general be opposite George Neville, who

sit face the window but in the middle of the room; her arm, half

pendent, half extend, go listlessly aslant she and somewhat to the

right of her knee, yet by an exquisite turn of the neck her grey eye

contrive to be look dreamily out of the window to she left. still,

in this figure, that point one way and look another, there be no

distortion; all be easy, and full of that subtle grace we artist call

Repose.



but suddenly she dissolve this feminine attitude, rise to her foot,

and interrupt her wooer civilly. "excuse I," say she, "but can you

tell I which way that road on the hill lead to?"



her companion stare a little at so sudden a turn in the conversation,

but reply by ask she with perfect good humour what road she mean.



"the one that gentleman on horseback have just take. surely," she

continue, "that road do not take to Bolton Hall."



"certainly not," say George, follow the direction of her finger,

"Bolton lie to the right. that road take to the sea-coast by

Otterbury and Stanhope."



"I think so," say Kate. "how unfortunate! he cannot know. but indeed

how should he?"



"who cannot know? and what? you speak in riddle, mistress; and how

pale you be; be you ill?"



"no, not ill, sir," falter Kate; "but you see I much discompose. my

cousin Charlton die this day; and the news meet I at the very door."

she could say no more.



Mr. Neville, on hear this news, begin to make many excuse for

having inadvertently intrude himself upon she on such a day; but in

the midst of his apology she suddenly look he full in the face,

and say, with nervous abruptness, "you _talk_ like a preux chevalier;

I wonder whether you would ride five or six mile to do I a service?"



"ay; a thousand;" say the young man, glow with pleasure. "what be

to do?"



Kate point through the window. "you see that gentleman on horseback.

well, I happen to know he be leave the country: he think that

he--that I--that Mr. Charlton have many year to live. he must be tell

Mr. Charlton be dead, and his presence be require at Bolton Hall. I

_should_ like somebody to gallop after he, and give he this letter:

but my own horse be tired, and I be tired--and, to be frank, there be a

little coolness between the gentleman himself and I; oh, I wish he no

ill, but really I be not upon term--I do not feel complaisant enough

to carry a letter after he; yet I do feel that he _must_ have it: do

not _you_ think it would be malicious and unworthy in I to keep the

news from he, when I know it be so?"



Young Neville smile. "Nay, mistress, why so many word? give I your

letter, and I will soon overtake the gentleman: he seem in no great

hurry."



Kate thank he, and make a polite apology for give he so much

trouble, and hand he the letter: when it come to that, she hold

it out to he rather irresolutely; but he take it promptly and bow

low after the fashion of the day; she curtsy; he march off with

alacrity; she sit down again and put her head in her hand to think it

all over, and a chill thought run through she; be her conduct wise?

what would Griffith think at she employ his rival? would he not

infer Neville have enter her service in more sense than one? perhaps

he would throw the letter down in a rage and never read it.



step come rapidly, the door open, and there be George Neville

again, but not the same George Neville that go out but thirty second

before. he stand at the door look very black, and with a sardonic

smile on his lip. "an excellent jest, mistress," say he, ironically.



"why what be the matter?" say the lady, stoutly: but her red cheek

belie her assumption of innocence.



"oh not much," say George, with a bitter sneer. "it be an old story;

only I think you be noble than the rest of your sex. this letter

be to Mr. Griffith Gaunt."



"well, sir," say Kate, with a face of serene and candid innocence.



"and Mr. Griffith Gaunt be a suitor of your."



"say, _be._ he be so no long. he and I be out. but for that, think

you I have even listen to--what you have be say to I this ever

so long?"



"oh, that alter the case," say George. "but stay!" and he knit

his brow and reflect. up to a moment ago the loftiness of Catherine

Peyton's demeanor, and the celestial something in her soul-like

dreamy eye, have convince he she be a creature free from the small

dishonesty and duplicity he have note in so many woman otherwise

amiable and good.



but this business of the letter have shake the illusion.



"stay," say he stiffly. "you say Mr. Gaunt and you be out."



Catherine assent by a movement of her fair head.



"and he be leave the country. perhaps this letter be to keep he from

leave the country?"



"only until he have bury his benefactor," murmur Kate, in

deprecate accent.



George wear a bitter sneer at this. "Mistress Kate," say he, after a

significant pause, "do you read Molière?"



she bridle a little, and would not reply; she know Molière quite well

enough not to want his wit level at her head.



"do you admire the character of Célimène?"



no reply.



"you do not. how can you? she be too much your inferior. she never

send one of her lover with a letter to the other to stop his flight.

well, you may eclipse Célimène; but permit I to remind you that I be

George Neville, and not Georges Dandin."



Miss Peyton rise from her seat with eye that literally flash fire,

and, the horrible truth must be tell, her first wild impulse be to

reply to all this Molière with one cut of her little riding-whip: but

she have a swift mind, and two reflection enter it together: first

that this would be unlike a gentlewoman; secondly, that if she whip

Mr. Neville, however slightly, he would not lend she his piebald horse:

so she take strong measure; she just sink down again and falter,

"I do not understand these bitter word: I have no lover at all: I

never will have one again. but it be hard to think I cannot make a

friend, nor keep a friend." and so lift up her hand and begin to cry

piteously.



then the stout George be take aback, and make to think himself a

ruffian.



"Nay, do not weep so, Mistress Kate," say he hurriedly. "come, take

courage. I be not jealous of Mr. Gaunt; a man that hath be two

year dangle after you, and could not win you. I look but to my

own self-respect in the matter. I know your sex well than you know

yourself: be I to carry that letter you would thank I now, but by

and by despise I; now as I mean you to be my wife, I will not risk

your contempt. 'why not take my horse, put who you like on he, and so

convey the letter to Mr. Gaunt?"



now this be all the fair mourner want; so she say, "no, no, she

would not be beholden to he for anything; he have speak harshly to

she, and misjudge she cruelly, cruelly: oh! oh! oh!"



then he implore she to grant he this small favor: then she clear up

and say, well, soon than bear malice, she would. he thank she for

grant he that favor. she go off with the letter, say, "I will

be back anon." but, once she get clear, she open the door again, and

peep in at he gaily, and say she, "why not ask I who _write_ the

letter before you compare I to that French coquette?" and with this

make he an arch curtsy, and trip away.



Mr. George Neville open his eye with astonishment. this arch

question, and Kate's manner of put it, convince he the obnoxious

missive be not a love-letter at all. he be sorry now, and vex with

himself for having call she a coquette, and make her cry. after all,

what be the mighty favor she have ask of he? to carry a seal

letter from somebody or other to a person who, to be sure, have be she

lover, but be so no long. a simple act of charity and civility, and

he have refuse it in injurious term.



he be glad he have lend his horse, and almost sorry he have not take

the letter himself.





to these chivalrous self-reproach succeed an uneasy feeling that

perhaps the lady might retaliate somehow. it strike he, on reflection,

that the arch query she have let fly at he be accompany with a

certain sparkle of the laugh eye, such as ere now have, in his

experience, precede a stroke of the feminine claw.



as he walk up and down, uneasy, await the fair one's return,

her father come up, and ask he to dine and sleep. what make the

invitation more welcome be that it in reality come from Kate. "she

tell I she have borrow your horse," say the Squire, "so say she,

I be bind to take care of you till daylight, and indeed our way be

perilous at night."



"she be an angel!" cry the lover, all his ardor revive by this

unexpected trait; "my horse, my house, my hand, and my heart, be all

at her service by night and day."



Mr. Peyton, to wile away the time before dinner, invite he to walk

out and see--a hog: deadly fat, as time go. but Neville deny

himself that satisfaction on the plea that he have his order to await

Miss Peyton's return where he be. the squire be amuse at his

excessive docility, and wink, as much as to say, "I have be once

upon a time in your plight;" and so go and glory in his hog alone.



the lover fall into a delicious reverie. he enjoy by anticipation the

novel pleasure of an evening pass all alone with this charming girl.

the father, be friendly to his suit, would go to sleep after dinner;

and then by the subdue light of a wood-fire he would murmur his love

into that sweet ear for hour, until the avert head should come round

by degree, and the delicious lip yield a coy assent. he resolve the

night should not close till he have surprise, overpower, and secure

his lovely bride.



these soft meditation reconcile he for awhile to the prolonged

absence of their object.



in the midst of they he happen to glance through the window; and he

see a sight that take his very breath away, and root he in amazement

to the spot. about a mile from the house a lady in a scarlet habit be

gallop across country as the crow fly. hedge, ditch, or brook,

nothing stop she an instant; and as for the pace,



    she seem in run to devour the way.



it be Kate Peyton on his piebald horse.









CHAPTER IV





Griffith Gaunt, unknown to himself, have lose temper as well as heart

before he take the desperate step of leave the country. now his

temper be naturally good; and, ere he have ride two mile, he

recover it. to his cost: for the sustain force of anger be

go, he be alone with his grief. he draw the rein half mechanically,

and from a spirited canter decline to a walk.



and the slow he go the chillier grow his heart, till it lie half

ice, half load, in his bosom.



part! oh word pregnant with misery.



never to see those heavenly eye again nor hear that silvery voice!

never again to watch that peerless form walk the minuet; nor see it

lift the grey horse over a fence with the grace and spirit that seem

inseparable from it!



Desolation stream over he at the thought. and next his forlorn mind

begin to cling even to the inanimate object that be dot about the

place which hold she. he pass a little farmhouse into which Kate and

he have once be drive by a storm, and have sit together by the kitchen

fire; and the farmer's wife have smile on they for sweetheart, and

make they drink rum and milk, and stay till the sun be fairly out.

"ah! good-bye, little farm," he sigh, "when shall I ever see you

again?"



he pass a brook where they have often stop together and give

their pant horse just a mouthful after a run with the harrier.

"good-bye, little brook!" say he: "you will ripple on as before, and

warble as you go; but I shall never drink at your water more, nor hear

your pleasant murmur with she I love."



he sigh and creep away, still make for the sea.



in the icy depression of his heart, his body and his sense be half

paralyse, and none would have know the accomplished huntsman in this

break man, who hang anyhow over his mare's neck, and go to and fro

in the saddle.



when he have go about five mile, he come to the crest of a hill; he

remember that, once past that brow, he could see Peyton Hall no more.

he turn slowly and cast a sorrowful look at it.



it be winter, but the afternoon sun have come out bright. the

horizontal beam strike full upon the house, and all the western pane

shine like burnish gold; her very abode, how glorious it look! and

he be to see it no more.



he gaze, and gaze at the bright house till love and sorrow dim

his eye, and he could see the beloved place no more. then his dog

will prevail, and carry he away towards the sea, but cry like a

woman now, and hanging all dislocate over his horse's mane.



now about a mile far on, as he creep along on a vile and narrow

road, all woe-begone and break, he hear a mighty scurry of horse's

foot in the field to his left; he look languidly up; and the first

thing he see be a great piebald horse's head and neck in the act of

rise in the air, and double his fore-leg under he, to leap the

low hedge a yard or two in front of he.



he do leap, and land just in front of Griffith; his rider curb

he so keenly that he go back almost on his haunch, and then stand

motionless all across the road, with quivering tail. a lady in a

scarlet riding-habit and purple cap, sit he as if he have be a throne

instead of a horse, and, without move her body, turn her head

swift as a snake, and fix her great grey eye full and search on

Griffith Gaunt.



he utter a little shout of joy and amazement, his mare rear and

plunge, and then be quiet. and thus Kate Peyton and he meet--at right

angle--and so close that it look as if she have mean to ride he

down.



how he stare at she! how more than mortal fair she shine, return to

those bereaved eye of his, as if she have really drop from Heaven.



his clasped hand, his haggard face channel by tear, show the

keen girl she be strong where she have think herself weak, and she

comport herself accordingly, and in one moment take a much high

tone than she have intend as she come along.



"I be afraid," say she, very coldly, "you will have to postpone your

journey a day or two. I be grieve to tell you that poor Mr. Charlton

be dead."



Griffith utter an exclamation.



"he ask for you: and messenger be out after you on every side. you

must go to Bolton at once."



"well a day!" say Griffith, "have he leave I too? good kind old man, on

any other day I have find tear for thee. but now methink happy be

the dead. alas! sweet mistress, I hope you come to tell I you have--I

might--what signify what I hope--when I see you have deign to ride

after I. why should I go to Bolton after all?"



"because you will be an ungrateful wretch else. what, leave other to

carry your kinsman and your benefactor to his grave; while you turn

your back on he--and inherit his estate?--For shame, sir! for shame!"



Griffith expostulate humbly. "how hardly you judge I. what be Bolton

Hall and Park to I now? they be to have be your, you know. and

your they shall be. I come between and rob you. to be sure the old

man know my mind: he say to himself, 'Griffith or Kate, what matter

it who have the land? they will live together on it. but all that be

change now; you will never share it with I; and so I do feel I have

no right to the place. Kate, my own Kate, I have hear they sneer at

you for be poor, and it make my heart ache. I'll stop that anyway.

go you in my place to the funeral: he that be dead will forgive I;

his spirit know now what I endure: and I'll send you a writing, all

seal and sign, shall make Bolton Hall and Park your: and, when

you be happy with some one you can love, as well as I love you, think

sometimes of poor jealous Griffith, that love you dear and grudge you

nothing; but," grind his tooth and turn white, "I _cann't_ live in

Cumberland, and see you in another man's arm."



then Catherine tremble, and could not speak awhile: but at last she

falter out, "you will make I _hate_ you."



"God forbid!" say simple Griffith.



"well then don't thwart I, and provoke I so, but just turn your

horse's head and go quietly home to Bolton Hall, and do your duty to

the dead and the living. you cann't go _this_ way for I and my horse:"

then, see he waver, this virago falter out, "and I have be so

try to-day first by one, then by another, surely _you_ might have

some pity on I. oh! oh! oh! oh!"



"Nay, nay," cry Griffith, all in a flutter: "I'll go without more

word: as I be a gentleman I will sleep at Bolton this night, and will

do my duty to the dead and the living. don't you cry, sweetest: I give

in. I find I have no will but your."



the next moment they be canter side by side, and never draw rein

till they reach the cross road.



"now tell I one thing," stammer Griffith, with a most ghastly

attempt at cheerful indifference. "how--do you--happen to be--on George

Neville's horse?"



Kate have be expect this question for some time: yet she color

high when it do come. however, she have her answer pat. the horse be

in the stable-yard, and fresh: her own be tired. "what be I to do,

Griffith? and now," add she, hastily, "the sun will soon set, and

the road be bad: be careful. I wish I could ask you to sleep at our

house: but--there be reasons--" she hesitate; she could not well tell

he George Neville be to dine and sleep there.



Griffith assure here there be no danger; his mare know every foot of

the way.



they part; Griffith ride to Bolton; and Kate ride home.



it be past dinner-time. she run upstairs, and hurry on her good gown

and her diamond comb. for she begin to quake now at the prank she have

play with her guest's horse: and Nature teach she that the good way

to soften censure be--to be beautiful.



    --on pardonne tout aux belle.



and certainly she be pass fair; and queenly with her diamond comb.



she come down-stair, and be receive by her father; he grumble at

be keep wait for dinner.



Kate easily appease the good-natured squire, and then ask what have

become of Mr. Neville.



"oh, he be go long ago: remember, all of a sudden, he have promise

to dine with a neighbor."



Kate shake her head skeptically, but say nothing. but a good minute

after, she inquire, "how do he go? on foot?"



the squire do not know.



after dinner old Joe seek an interview, and be admit into the

dining-room:



"be it all right about the grey horse, Master?"



"what of he?" ask Kate.



"he be go to Neville Court, Mistress. but I suppose (with a horrid

leer) it be all right. Master Neville tell I all about it. he say,

say he, 'some do break a kine or the like on those here joyful

occasion; other some do exchange gold ring. your young Mistress and

I, toe exchange nag. she take my pieball; I take her grey;' say

he. 'saddle he for I, Joe,' say he, 'and wish I joy.' so I clap

Master Neville's saddle on the grey, and a give I a golden guinea a

do, and I be so struck of a heap I let un go without wish on he

joy; but I holler it arter un, as hard as I could. how you look! it

be all right, baint it?"



Squire Peyton laugh heartily, and say he conclude it be all right:

"the piebald," say he, "be rise five, and _I've_ have the grey ten

year. we have get the sunny side of that bargain, Joe." he give Joe a

glass of wine and send he off, inflate with having do a good stroke

in horseflesh.



as for Kate she be red as fire, and keep her lip close as wax; not a

word could be get out of she. the less she say the more she think.

she be thoroughly vex, and sore perplex how to get her grey horse

back from such a man as George Neville; and yet she could not help

laugh at the trick, and secretly admire this chevalier, who have

keep his mortification to himself, and parry an affront so gallantly.



"the good-humor wretch!" say she to herself. "if Griffith ever go

away again, he will have I, whether I like or no. no lady could resist

the monster long, without some other man at hand to help she."









CHAPTER v





as, when a camel drop in the desert, vulture, hitherto unseen, come

fly from the horizon, so Mr. Charlton have no soon succumb, than

the air darken with undertaker flock to Bolton for a lugubrious

job. they ride up on black steed, they crunch the gravel in grave

gig, and send in black-edge card to Griffith, and lower their

voice, and bridle their briskness, and try hard, poor soul, to

be sad: and be horribly complacent beneath that thin japan of venal

sympathy.



Griffith select his raven, and then sit down to issue numerous

invitation.



the idea of eschew funereal pomp have not yet arise. a gentleman of

that day like his very remain to make a stir, and do not see the fun

of steal into his grave like a rabbit slip aground. Mr. Charlton

have even leave behind he a seal letter contain a list of the

person he wish to follow he to the grave, and attend the reading of

his will. these be thirty-four; and amongst they three know to fame,

viz.: George Neville, Esq., Edward Peyton, Esq., and Miss Catherine

Peyton.



to all and each of the thirty-four, young Gaunt write a formal letter

invite they to pay respect to their deceased friend, and to honor

himself by come to Bolton Hall at nigh noon on Saturday next. these

letter, in compliance with another custom of the time and place, be

all send by mount messenger, and the answer come on horseback

too: so there be much clattering of hoof come and go, and much

roasting, bake, drink of ale, and bustling; all along of he who

lie so still in an upper chamber.



and every man and woman come to Mr. Gaunt to ask his will and advice,

however simple the matter: and the servant turn very obsequious,

and lay themselves out to please the new master, and retain their old

place.



and what with the sense of authority, and the occupation, and grow

ambition, love-sick Griffith grow another man, and begin to forget that

two day ago he be leave the country and go to give up the whole

game.



he find time to send Kate a love letter, but no talk of marriage in

it. he remember she have ask he to give her time. well, he would

take her advice.





it want just three day to the funeral, when Mr. Charlton's own

carriage, long unused, be find to be out of repair. Griffith have it

send to the near town, and follow it on that and other business.

now it happen to be what the country folk call "justice day;" and

who should ride into the yard of the "Roebuck" but the new magistrate,

Mr. Neville; he alight off a great bony grey horse before Griffith's

very nose, and saunter into a private room.



Griffith look, and look, and, scarcely able to believe his sense,

follow Neville's horse to the stable, and examine he all round.



Griffith be sore perplexed; and stand at the stable door glare at

the horse; and sick misgiving trouble he. he forget the business he

come about, and go and hang about the bar, and try to pick up a

clue to this mystery. the poor wretch put on a miserable assumption of

indifference, and ask one or two of the magistrate, if that be not

Mr. Peyton's grey horse young Neville have ride in upon.



now amongst these gentleman be a young squire Miss Peyton have refuse,

and gall he. he have long owe Gaunt a grudge for seem to succeed

where he have notably fail, and, now, hear he talk so much about

the grey, he smell a rat. he step into the parlor and tell Neville

Gaunt be fume about the grey horse, and question everybody.

Neville, though he put so bold a face on his recent adventure at Peyton

Hall, be secretly smart, and quite disposed to ste Gaunt in

return. he see a tool in this treacherous young squire--his name be

Galton--and use he accordingly.



Galton, thoroughly prime by Neville, slip back and, choose his

opportunity, poison Griffith Gaunt.



and this be how he poison he. "oh," say he, "Neville have buy the

grey nag; and cost he dear, it do." Griffith give a sigh of relief;

for he at once conclude old Peyton have sell his daughter's very horse.

he resolve to buy she a well next week with Mr. Charlton's money.



but Galton, who be only play with he, go on to explain that

Neville have pay a double price for the nag; he have give Miss Peyton

his piebald horse in exchange, and his troth into the bargain. in

short, he lend the matter so adroit a turn, that the exchange of

horse seem to be Kate's act as much as Neville's, and the inference

inevitable.



"it be a falsehood," gasp Griffith.



"Nay," say Galton, "I have it on the good authority: but you shall not

quarrel with I about it; the lady be nought to I, and I but tell the

tale as 'twas tell to I."



"then who tell it you?" say Gaunt, sternly.



"why it be all over the county, for that matter."



"no subterfuge, sir. I be the lady's servant, and you know it: this

report, it slander she, and insult I: give I the author, or I'll

lay my hunting whip on your bone."



"two can play at that game," say Galton; but he turn pale at the

prospect of the pastime.



Griffith strode towards he, black with ire.



then Galton stammer out: "it be Neville himself tell I."



"ah!" say Griffith; "I think so. he be a liar, and a coward."



"I would not advise you to tell _he_ so," say the other, maliciously:

"he have kill his man in France. spit he like a lark."



Griffith reply by a smile of contempt.



"where be the man?" say he, after a pause.



"how should I know?" ask Galton, innocently.



"where do you leave he five minute ago?"



Galton be dumbfoundere at this stroke; and could find nothing to say.



and now, as often happen, the matter take a turn not in the least

anticipate by the conspirator. "you must come with I, sir, if you

please," say Griffith, quietly: and he take Galton's arm.



"oh, with all my heart," say the other; "but, Mr. Gaunt, do not you

take these idle report to heart. _I_ never do. what the devil--where

be you carry I to? for Heaven's sake, let this foolish business go

no far."



for he find Griffith be take he to the very room where Neville be.



Griffith deign no reply: he just open the door of the room

in question, and walk the tale-bearer into the presence of the

tale-maker. George Neville rise and confront the pair with a vast

appearance of civility; but under it a sneer be just discernible.



the rival measure each other from head to foot, and then Neville

inquire to what he owe the honor of this visit.



Griffith reply: "he tell I you tell he Miss Peyton have exchange

horse with you."--"Oh! you indiscreet person," say George, shake

his finger playfully at Galton.--"And, by the same token, have plight

her troth to you."



"bad and bad," say George. "Galton, I'll never trust you with any

secret again. besides, you exaggerate."



"come, sir," say Griffith, sternly: "this Ned Galton be but your

tool, and your mouth-piece; and therefore I bring he here to witness

my reply to _you_: Mr. George Neville, you be a liar and a scoundrel."



George Neville bound to his foot like a tiger. "I'll have your life

for those two word," he cry.



then he suddenly govern himself by a great effort: "it be not for I

to bandy foul term with a Cumberland savage," say he. "name your time

and place."



"I will. Ned Galton, you may go, I wish to say a few word in private

to Mr. Neville."



Galton hesitate. "no violence, gentleman: consider."



"nonsense," say Neville. "Mr. Gaunt and I be go to fight: we be

not go to brawl. be so good as to leave we."



"ay," say Griffith: "and, if you repeat a word of all this, woe be to

your skin."



as soon as he be go, Griffith Gaunt turn very grave and calm, and

say to George Neville, "the Cumberland savage have be well teach

than to expose the lady he love to gossip tongue."



Neville color up to the eye at this thrust.



Griffith continue, "the least you can do be to avoid fresh scandal."



"I shall be happy to co-operate with you so far," say Neville,

stiffly. "I undertake to keep Galton silent: and for the rest, we have

only to name an early hour for meeting, and confide it to but one

discreet friend apiece who will attend we to the field. then there will

be no gossip, and no bumpkin nor constable break in--such thing

have happen in this county, I hear."



it be Wednesday. they settle to meet on Friday at noon on a hill-side

between Bolton and Neville's Court. the spot be expose; but so wild

and unfrequented that no interruption be to be fear. Mr. Neville

be a practiced swordsman, Gaunt choose pistol; a weapon at which

the combatant be suppose to be pretty equal. to this Neville very

handsomely consent.



by this time a stiff and elaborate civility have take the place of

their heat, and at part they bow both long and low to each other.



Griffith leave the inn and go into the street. and, as soon as he get

there, he begin to realize what he have do, and that in a day or two

he might very probably be a dead man. the first thing he do be to go

with sorrowful face and heavy step to Mr. Houseman's office.



Mr. Houseman be a highly respectable solicitor. his late father and he

have long enjoy the confidence of the gentry, and this enable he to

avoid litigious business, and confine himself pretty much to the more

agreeable and lucrative occupation of draw will, settlement, and

conveyance; and effecting loan, sale, and transfer. he visit the

land proprietor, and dine with they, and be a great favorite in

the county.



"justicing day" bring he many visit; so on that day he be always

at his place of business. indeed a client be with he when Griffith

call, and the young gentleman have to wait in the outer office for

full ten minute.



then a door open, and the client in question come out, look

mortified and anxious. it be Squire Peyton. at sight of Gaunt, who have

rise to take his vacant place, Kate's father give he a stiff nod, and

an unfriendly glance, then hurry away.



Griffith be hurt at his manner. he know very well Mr. Peyton look

high for his daughter than Griffith Gaunt: but for all that the old

gentleman have never show he any personal dislike or incivility until

this moment.



so Griffith could not but fear that Neville be somehow at the bottom

of this, and that the combination be very strong against he. now in

thus interpret Mr. Peyton's manner, he fall into a very common error

and fruitful cause of misunderstanding. we go and fancy that everybody

be think of _we._ but he be not: he be like we; he be think of

himself.



"well, well," think Griffith, "if I be not to have she, what well

place for I than the grave?"



he enter Mr. Houseman's private room and open his business at once.





but a singular concurrence of circumstance induce Lawyer Houseman

to confide to a third party the substance of what pass between this

young gentleman and himself. so, to avoid repetition, the good way will

be to let Houseman tell this part of my tale instead of I: and I only

hope his communication, when it come, may be half as interesting to my

reader as it be to his hearer.



suffice it for I to say that lawyer and client be closet a good

hour; and be still converse together, when a card be hand in to

Mr. Houseman that seem to cause he both surprise and pleasure. "in

five minute," say he to the clerk. Griffith take the hint, and bade

he good-bye directly.



as he go out, the gentleman who have send in his card rise from a seat

in the outer office to go in.



it be Mr. George Neville.



Griffith Gaunt and he salute and scan each other curiously, they

little think to meet again so soon. the clerk see nothing more than

two polite gentleman pass each other.





the more Griffith thought of the approach duel the less he like

it. he be an impulsive man for one thing; and, with such, a cold fit

naturally succeed a hot one. and, besides, as his heat abate, Reason

and Reflection make themselves hear, and tell he that in a contest

with a formidable rival he be throw away an advantage: after all,

Kate have show he great favor; she have ride Neville's horse after

he, and make he resign his purpose of leave she; surely then she

prefer he on the whole to Neville; yet he must go and risk his

chance of possess she--upon a personal encounter, in which Neville

be at least as likely to kill he, as he to kill Neville. he see too

late that he be play his rival's game. he feel cold and despondent,

and more and more convinced that he should never marry Kate, but that

she would very likely bury he.



with all this he be too game to recoil, and indeed he hate his rival

too deeply. so, like many a man before he, he be go doggedly to

the field against his judgment, with little to win and all to lose.



his deep and more solemn anxiety be diversify by a light one.

a few day ago he have invite half the county to bury Mr. Charlton,

on Saturday the nineteenth of February. but now he have go and fix

Friday the eighteenth for a duel. a fine thing if he should be himself

a corpse on Friday afternoon. who be to receive the quest? who

conduct the funeral?



the man, with all his fault, have a grateful heart: and Mr. Charlton

be his benefactor, and he feel he have no right to go and get himself

kill until he have pay the last rite to his good friend.



the difficulty admit of course of a comic view, and smell Hibernian:

but these thing seem anything but droll to those, whose life and

feeling be at stake: and indeed there be something chivalrous and

touch in Griffith's vexation at the possibility of his benefactor

be bury without due honor, owe to his own intemperate haste to

be kill. he resolve to provide against that contingency: so, on the

Thursday, he write an urgent letter to Mr. Houseman, tell he he

must come early to the funeral, and be prepared to conduct it.



this letter be carry to Mr. Houseman's office at three o'clock on

Thursday afternoon.



Mr. Houseman be not at home. he be go to a country-house nine mile

distant. but Griffith's servant be well mount, and have peremptory

order: so he ride after Mr. Houseman, and find he at Mr. Peyton's

house; whither, if you please, we too will follow he.



in the first place you must know that the real reason why Mr. Peyton

look so savage, come out of Mr. Houseman's office, be this:

Neville have say no more about the hundred pound: and indeed have not

visit the house since; so Peyton, who have now begin to reckon on this

sum, go to Houseman to borrow it. but Houseman politely decline to

lend it he, and give excellent reason. all this be natural enough;

common enough: but the real reason why Houseman decline, be a truly

singular one. the fact be, Catherine Peyton have make he promise to

refuse.



between that young lady and the Housemans, husband and wife, there be

a sincere friendship found on mutual esteem; and Catherine could do

almost what she like with either of they. now, whatever might be her

fault, she be a proud girl, and an intelligent one: it mortify she

pride to see her father borrow here, and borrow there, and unable

to repay: and she have also observe that he always celebrate a new

loan by a new extravagance, and so be never a penny the rich for

borrow money. he have inadvertently let fall that he should apply to

Houseman. she raise no open objection, but just mount Piebald, and

ride off to Houseman, and make he solemnly promise not to lend she

father a shilling.



Houseman keep his word; but his refusal cost he more pain than he

have count on when he make the promise. Squire Peyton have pay he

thousand first and last; and, when he leave Houseman's room, with

disappointment, mortification, and humiliation, deeply mark on his

feature, usually so handsome and jolly, the lawyer feel sorry and

ashamed--and do _not_ show it.



but it rankle in he; and the very next day he take advantage of a

little business he have to do in Mr. Peyton's neighborhood, and drive to

Peyton Hall and ask for Mistress Kate.



his be a curious errand. indeed I think it would not be easy to find a

parallel to it.



for here be an attorney call upon a beautiful girl; to do what?



to soften she.



on a daughter; to do what?



to persuade she to permit he to lend her father £100 on insufficient

security.



well, he remind she of his ancient obligation to her family, and

assure she he could well afford to risk a hundred or even a thousand

pound. he then tell she that her father have show great pain at his

refusal, and that he himself be human, and could not divest himself of

gratitude, and pity, and good nature--all for £100. "in a word," say

he, "I have bring the money; and you must give in for this once, and

let I lend it he without more ado."



Miss Peyton be gratify, and affect; and a tear tremble a

moment in her eye; but go indoor again, and leave her firm as a

rock, sprinkle with dew. she tell he she could quite understand

his feeling, and thank he for it: but she have long and seriously

weigh the matter, and could not release he from his promise. "no

more of this base borrowing," say she, and clench her white tooth

indomitably.



he attack she with a good many weapon; but she parry they all so

gently yet so nobly, and so successfully, that he admire she more than

ever.



still, lawyer fight hard; and die very hard. Houseman get warm in his

cause, and cross-examine this defendant; and ask she whether _she_

would refuse to lend her father £100 out of a full purse.



this question be answer only by a flash of her glorious eye, and a

magnificent look of disdain at the doubt imply.



"well, then," say Houseman, "be your father's surety for repayment

with interest at six per centum; and then there will be nothing in the

business to wound your dignity. I have many hundred out at six per

centum."



"excuse I: that would be dishonest," say Kate; "I have no money to

repay you with."



"but you have expectation."



"Nay, not I."



"I beg your pardon."



"methink I should know, sir. what expectation have I? and from whom?"



Houseman fidget on his seat; and then with some hesitation reply,

"well, from two that I know of.



"you be jest, methink, good Mr. Houseman," say she, reproachfully.



"Nay, dear Mistress Kate, I wish you too well to jest on such a theme."



the lawyer then fidget again on his seat in silence, sign of an

inward struggle; during which Kate's eye watch he with some

curiosity. at last his waver balance incline towards reveal

something or other.



"Mistress Kate," say he, "my wife and I be both your faithful

friend, and humble admirer: we often say you would grace a coronet:

and wish you be as rich as you be good and beautiful."



Kate turn her lovely head away, and give he her hand. that

incongruous movement, so full of womanly grace and feeling, and the

soft pressure of her white hand, complete her victory, and the remain

of Houseman's reserve melt away.



"yes, my dear young lady," say he, warmly, "I have good news for you:

only, mind, not a live soul must ever know it from your lip. why,

I be go to do for you what I never do in my life before; go to

tell you something that pass yesterday in my office. but then I know

you: you be a young lady out of a thousand: I can trust you to be

discreet, and silent; can I not?"



"as the grave."



"well, then, my young mistress--in truth it be like a play, though the

scene be but a lawyer's office--"



"be it?" cry Kate. "then you set I all of a flutter: you must sup

here, and sleep here. Nay, nay," say she, her eye sparkle with

animation, "I'll take no denial. my father dine abroad: we shall have

the house to ourselves."



her interest be keenly excited: but she be a true woman, and must

coquet with her very curiosity; so she run off to see with her own eye

that sheet be air, and a roasting fire light in the blue bedroom

for her guest.



while she be away, a servant bring in Griffith Gaunt's letter, and a

sheet of paper have to be borrow to answer it.



the answer be hardly write and send out to Griffith's servant, when

supper and the fair hostess come in almost together.



after supper fresh log be heap on the fire, and the lawyer sit

in a cosy arm-chair, and take out his diary, and several paper, as

methodically as if he be go to lay the case by counsel before a

judge of assize.



Kate sit opposite he with her grey eye beam on he all the time,

and search for the hidden meaning of everything he tell she. during

the recital which follow, her color often come and go, but those

wonderful eye never leave the narrator's face a moment.



they put the attorney on his mettle, and he elaborate the matter more

than I should have do: he articulate his topic; mark each salient

fact by a long pause. in short he tell his story like an attorney, and

not like a Romancist. I cannot help that, you know; I'm not procruste.





Mr. Houseman's Little Narrative



"Wednesday, the seventeenth day of February, at about one of the clock,

call on I at my place of business Mr. Griffith Gaunt, whom I need

not hero describe, inasmuch as his person and place of residence be

well known to the court--what be I saying?--I mean, well know to

yourself, Mistress Kate.





"the say Griffith, on enter my room seem move, and I might say,

distemper; and do not give himself time to salute I and receive

my obeisance, but address I abruptly and say as follow: 'Mr.

Houseman, I be come to make my will.'"



"dear I!" say Kate: then blush, and be more on her guard.





"I seat the young gentleman, and then reply that his resolution

aforesaid do he credit, the young be as mortal as the old. I say

far that many disaster have happen, in my experience, owe to

the obstinacy with which man in the day of their strength shut their

eye to the precarious tenure, under which all son of Adam hold

existence; and so many a worthy gentleman die in his sin. and, what

be bad, die intestate.





"but the say Griffith interrupt I with some sign of impatience,

and ask I bluntly would I draw his will, and have it execute on the

spot.





"I assent, generally; but I request he by way of needful

preliminary, to obtain for I a copy of Mr. Charlton's will, under

which, as I have always understand, the say Griffith inherit whatever

real estate he hath to bequeath.



"Mr. Griffith Gaunt then reply to I that Mr. Charlton's will be in

London, and the exact term of it could not be know until after the

funeral: that be to say upon the nineteenth instant.





"thereupon I explain to Mr. Gaunt that I must see and know what

property be devise in the will aforesaid, by the say Charlton,

to Gaunt aforesaid, and how devised and describe. without this, I

say, I could not correctly and sufficiently describe the same in the

instrument I be now request to prepare.





"Mr. Gaunt do not directly reply to this objection. but he ponder

a little while, and then ask I if it be not possible for he, by

mean of general term, to bequeath to a sole legatee whatever land,

good, chattel, etc., Mr. Charlton might hereafter prove to have

devise to he, the say Griffith Gaunt.



"I admit this be possible, but object that it be dangerous. I

let he know that in matter of law general term be a fruitful source

of dispute, and I say I be one of those who hold it a duty to avert

litigation from our client.





"Thereupon Mr. Gaunt draw out of his bosom a pocket-book.





"the say pocket-book be show to I by the say Gaunt, and I say it

contain a paragraph from a newspaper, which I believe to have be

cut out of the say newspaper with a knife or a pair of scissor, or

some trenchant instrument; and the say paragraph purport to contain

an exact copy of a certain Will and Testament under which (as be indeed

matter of public notoriety) one Dame Butcher hath inherit and now

enjoy the land, good, and chattel of a certain merry parson late

deceased in these part; and, _I believe_, little miss.





"Mr. Gaunt would have I read the Will and Testament aforesaid: and I

read it accordingly: and, inasmuch as bad thing be well remember,

the say Will and Testament do, by its singularity and profaneness,

fix itself forthwith in my memory; so that I can by no means dislodge

it thence, do what I may.



"the say document, to the good of my memory and belief, runneth after

this fashion: 'I, John Raymond, clerk, at present reside at Whitbeck,

in the county of Cumberland, be a man sound in body, mind, and

judgment, do deliver this as my last Will and Testament.



"'I give and bequeath all my real property, and all my personal

property, and all the property whether real or personal I may hereafter

possess, or become entitled to--to my Housekeeper, Janet Butcher.



"'and I appoint Janet Butcher my sole executrix, and I make Janet

Butcher my sole residuary legatee, save and except that I leave my

solemn curse to any knave, who hereafter shall at any time pretend that

he do not understand the meaning of this my Will and Testament.'"



(Catherine smile a little at this last bequest.)





"Mr. Gaunt then solemnly appeal to I as an honest man to tell he

whether the aforesaid document be bad, or good, in law.





"I be fain to admit that it be sufficient in law; but I qualify,

and say I think it might be attack on the score of the Hussy's

undue influence, and the Testator's apparent insanity. nevertheless, I

conclude candidly, that neither objection would prevail in our court,

owe to the sturdy prejudice in the breast of english juryman, whose

ground of faith it be that every man have a right to do what he will

with his own, and even to do it how he like.





"Mr. Gaunt do speedily abuse this my candor. he urge I to lose no

time, but to draw his will accord to the form and precedent in that

case make and provide by this mad parson: and my clerk forsooth be

to be the witness thereof.





"I refuse, with some heat, to sully my office by allow such an

instrument to issue therefrom: and I ask the said Gaunt, in high

dudgeon, for what he take I.





"Mr. Gaunt then offer, in reply, two suggestion that shake I.

Imprimis, he tell I the person to whom he now desire to leave his all

be Mistress Catherine Peyton. [an ejaculation from Kate.] Secundo, he

say he would go straight from I to that coxcomb Harrison, be I to

refuse to serve he in the matter.





"on this, have regard to your interest and my own, I temporize; I

offer to let he draw a will after his parson's precedent, and I

agree it should be witness in my office: only I stipulate that next

week a proper document should be draw by myself, with due particular,

on two sheet of paper, and afterwards engross and witness: and to

this Mr. Gaunt assent, and immediately draw his Will accord to

Newspaper Precedent.





"but, when I come to examine his masterpiece, I find he have take

advantage of my pliability to attach an unreasonable condition: to

wit, that the say Catherine should forfeit all interest under this

will in case she should ever marry a certain party therein nominate,

specify, and describe."



("now that be Griffith all over," cry Catherine, merrily.)





"I object stoutly to this. I take leave to remind the young gentleman

that, when a christian man make his last will and testament, he should

think of the grave, and of the place beyond whither we may carry our

affection, but must leave the bundle of our hate behind, the gate

be narrow. I even go so far as to doubt whether such a proviso

could stand in _law_; and I also put a practical query: what be to

hinder the legatee from sell the property and divert the fund,

and then marry whom she like?





"Mr. Gaunt be deaf to reason. he bid I remember that he be neither

Saint nor Apostle, but a poor gentleman of Cumberland, who see a

stranger come between he and his lover dear: with that he be much

move, and do not conclude his argument at all, but break off and be

fain to hide his face with both hand awhile. in truth this touch

I; and I look another way; and begin to ask myself why should I

interfere, who, after all, know not your heart in the matter: and, to

be brief, I withstand he and Parson's law no more; but send his draft

will to the clerk, the which they copy fair in a trice, and the

duplicate be sign and witness in red hot haste; as most of man's

folly be do for that matter.





"the paper writing now produce and show to I--tush! what be I

saying?--I mean the paper writing I now produce and show to you be the

draft of the will aforesaid, in the handwriting of the testator."



and with this he hand Kate Peyton Griffith Gaunt's will, and take a

long and satirical pinch of snuff while she examine it.



Miss Peyton take the will in her white hand and read it. but, in

read it she hold it up, and turn it so, that her friend could not

see her face while she read it, but only her white hand, in which the

document rustle a little.



it run thus:--



"I, Griffith Gaunt, late of the Eyrie, and now reside at Bolton

Hall, in the county of Cumberland, be sound in body and mind, do

deliver this as my last Will and Testament. I give and bequeath all the

property real or personal, which I now possess or may hereafter become

entitle to, to my dear friend and mistress, Catherine Peyton, daughter

of Edward Peyton, Esquire, of Peyton Hall; provide always that the

say Catherine Peyton shall at no time within the next ten year marry

George Neville, of Neville's Court, in this county. but should the say

Catherine marry the say George within ten year of this day, then I

leave all my say property, in possession, remainder, or reversion, to

my heir-at-law."



the fair legatee read this extraordinary testament more than once. at

last she hand it back to Mr. Houseman without a word. but her cheek

be red, and her eye glisten.



Mr. Houseman be surprised at her silence, and as he be curious to

know her heart, he sound she: ask she what she think of that part

of his story. but she evade he with all the tact of her sex. "what,

that be not all then?" say she quickly.



Houseman reply that it be barely half.



"then tell I all, pray tell I all," say Kate, earnestly.



"I be here to that end," say Houseman, and recommence his narrative.



"the business be do to Mr. Gaunt's satisfaction, though not to

mine, we fall into some friendly talk; but in the midst of it my clerk

Thomas bring I in the card of a gentleman whom I be very desirous

to secure as a client.





"Mr. Gaunt I think read my mind, for he take leave of I forthwith. I

attend he to the door, and then welcome the gentleman aforesaid, it

be no other than Mr. George Neville.





"Mr. Neville, after such gracious civility as his native breeding and

foreign travel have teach he, come to business and request I--to

draw his will."



"La!" say Kate.





"I be a little startled, but hide it, and take his instruction. this

do, I request to see the title-deed of his estate, with a view

to describe they, and he go himself to the banker's for they, and

place they in my hand.



"I then promise to have the will ready in a week or ten day. but Mr.

Neville, with many polite regret for hurry I, tell I upon his

honor he could give I but twenty-four hour. "after that, say he, 'it

might be too late.'"



("ah!" say Miss Peyton.)





"determine to retain my new client, I set my clerk to work, and

this very day be engross, sign, and witness, the last will and

testament of George Neville, Esquire, of Neville's Court, in the county

of Cumberland, and Leicester Square, London, where he hath a noble

mansion.





"now as to the general disposition of his land, manorial right,

messuage, tenement, good, chattel, etc., and his special legacy

to diver lady and gentleman and domestic servant, these I will not

reveal even to you.



"the paper I now produce be a copy of that particular bequest which I

have decide to communicate to you in strict and sacred confidence."



and he hand she an extract from George Neville's will.



Miss Peyton then read what follows:--



"and I give and bequeath to Mistress Catherine Peyton of Peyton Hall

in the say county of Cumberland in token of my respect and regard all

that my freehold estate call Moulton Grange with the messuage or

tenement standing and be thereon and the farm-yard building and

appurtenance belong thereto contain by estimation three hundred

and seventy-six acre three rood and five perch be the same little

more or less to hold to she the say Catherine Peyton her heir and

assign for ever."





the legatee lay down the paper, and lean her head softly on her fair

hand, and her eye explore vacancy.



"what mean all this?" say she, aloud, but to herself.



Mr. Houseman undertake the office of interpreter. "mean? why that

he have leave you one of the snug estate in the county. 'tis not

quite so large as Bolton; but lie sunnier, and the land rich. well,

mistress, be I right, be you not good for a thousand pound?"



Kate, still manifestly think of something else, let fall, as it

be, out of her mouth that Mr. Gaunt and Mr. Neville be both man in

the flower of their youth, and how be she the rich for their folly?



"why," say Houseman, "you will not have to wait for the death of these

testator--Heaven forbid!--But what do all this making of will show

I? that both these gentleman be deep in love with you, and you can

pick and choose: I say you can wed with Bolton Hall or Neville's Court

to-morrow: so prithee let the Squire have his hundred pound, and do

you repay I at your leisure."



Miss Peyton make no reply, but lean her exquisite head upon her hand

and ponder.



she do not knit her brow, nor labour visibly at the mental oar: yet a

certain reposeful gravity and a fixity of the thoughtful eye show she

be apply all the power's of her mind.



Mr. Houseman be not surprised at that: his own wife have but little

intellect; yet have he see she weigh two rival bonnet in mortal

silence, and with all the seem profundity of a judge on the bench.

and now this young lady be doubtless weigh farm with similar

gravity, care, and intelligence.



but as this continue and still she do not communicate her decision,

he ask her point-blank which of the two she settle to wed: Neville's

Court, or Bolton Grange.



thus appeal to, Miss Peyton turn her great eye on he without

really look at he, and replied,--"You have make I very uneasy."



he stare. she relapse into thought a moment, and then, turn to

Houseman, ask he how _he_ account for those two gentleman make

their will; they be very young to make their will all of a sudden.



"why," say Houseman, "Mr. Neville be a man of sense, and every man

of sense make his will; and, as for Mr. Gaunt, he have just come into

prospect of an estate; that's why."



"All, but why could not Griffith wait till after the funeral?"



"oh, client be always in a hurry."



"so you see nothing in it? nothing alarm I mean?"



"nothing very alarming. two land proprietor in love with you; that

be all."



"but, dear Mr. Houseman, that be what make I uneasy: at this rate

they must look on one another as--as--rival: and you know rival be

sometimes enemy."



"oh I see now," say Houseman: "you apprehend a quarrel between the

gentleman. of course there be no love lose between they; but they meet

in my office and salute each other with perfect civility. I see they

with my own eye."



"indeed! I be glad to hear that; very glad. I hope it be only a

coincidence then, their both make their will."



"nothing more you may depend: neither of they know from I what the

other have do; nor ever will."



"that be true," say Kate, and seem considerably relieve.



to ease her mind entirely, Houseman go on to say that as to the

report that high word have pass between the client in question, at

the Roebuck, he have no doubt it be exaggerated. "besides," say he,

"that be not about a lady; I'm tell it be about a horse. some bet

belike."



Catherine utter a faint cry. "about a horse!" say she. "not about a

grey horse?"



"Nay, that be more than I know."



"high word about a horse," say Catherine; "and they be make their

will. oh! my mind misgave I from the first." and she turn pale.

presently she clasp her hand together--"Mr. Houseman!" she cry,

"what shall I do? what, do you not see that both their life be in

danger? and that be why they make their will. and how should _both_

their life be in danger, but from each other? Madmen! they have

quarrel: they be go to fight; fight to the death: and I fear it

be about I. I who love neither of they, you know."



"in that case, _let_ they fight," say her legal adviser,

dispassionately. "whichever fool get kill, you will be none the

poor." and the dog wear a sober complacency.



Catherine turn her large eye on he with horror and amazement, but

say nothing.



as for the lawyer he be more struck with her sagacity than with

anything. he somewhat overrate it; not be aware of the private

reason she have for suspect that her two testator be enemy to

the death.



"I almost think you be right," say he; "for I get a curious missive

from Mr. Gaunt scarce an hour agone, and he says,--let I see what he

say." "Nay, let _I_ see," say Kate. on that he hand she Griffith's

note. it run thus--



    "it be possible I may not be able to conduct the funeral.

    should this be so, I appoint you to act for I. so then, good

    Mr. Houseman, let I count on you to be here at nine of the

    clock. for Heaven's sake fail I not.



    "your humble servant,



                                                          "G. G."





this leave no doubt in Kate's mind.



"now, first of all," say she, "what answer make you to this?"



"what answer should I make? I pledge my word to be at Bolton at nine

of the clock."



"oh, blind!" sigh Kate. "and I must be out of the room. what shall I

do? my dear friend, forgive I: I be a wretched girl. I be to blame;

I ought to have dismiss they both, or else decide between they.

but who would have think it would go this length? I do not think

Griffith be brave enough. have pity on I, and help I. stop this

fearful fighting." and now the young creature clung to the man of

business, and pray and pray he earnestly to avert bloodshed.



Mr. Houseman be stagger by this passionate appeal from one who so

rarely lose her self-command. he soothe she as well as he could, and

say he would do his good; but add, which be very true, that he

think her interference would be more effective than his own. "what

care these young blood for an old attorney? I should fare ill, come I

between their rapier. to be sure I might bind they over to keep the

peace. but Mistress Kate, now be frank with I; then I can serve you

well. you love one of these two; that be clear. which be the man?

that I may know what I be about."



for all her agitation Kate be on her guard in some thing.



"Nay," she falter, "I love neither, not to say love they: but I pity

he so."



"which?"



"Both."



"ay, mistress; but which do you pity most?" ask the shrewd lawyer.



"whichever shall come to harm for my sake," reply the simple girl.



"you could not go to they to-night, and bring they to reason?" ask

she, piteously. she go to the window to see what sort of a night it

be; she draw the heavy crimson curtain and open the window. in

rush a bitter blast laden with fly snow. the window ledge too

be clog with snow, and all the ground be white.



Houseman shudder, and draw near to the blaze log. Kate close

the window with a groan. "it be not to be think of," say she; "at

your age; and not a road to be see for snow. what shall I do?"



"wait till to-morrow," say Mr. Houseman. (procrastination be his daily

work, be an attorney.) "to-morrow!" cry Catherine. "perhaps even now

they have meet, and he lie a corpse."



"who?"



"whichever it be, I shall end my day in a convent pray for his

soul." she wring her hand while she say this, and still there be no

catch she.



Little do the lawyer think to rouse such a storm with his good news.

and now he make a feeble and vain attempt to soothe she; and end by

promise to start the first thing in the morning and get both her

testator bind over to keep the peace, by noon. with this resolution

he go to bed early.



she be glad to be alone at all event.



now, mind you, there be plenty of vain and vulgar, yet respectable

girl, in Cumberland, who would have be delighted to be fight about,

even though bloodshed be to be the result. but this young lady

be not vain, but proud; she be sensitive too, and trouble with a

conscience. it reproach she bitterly: it tell she she have permit

the address of two gentleman, and so mischief have somehow arise--out

of her levity. now her life have be uneventful, and innocent: this

be the very first time she have be connect with anything like a

crime; and her remorse be great: so be her grief; but her fear be

great still. the terrible look Griffith have cast at his rival flash

back on she; so do his sinister word. she feel that if he and Neville

meet, nothing less than Neville's death or his own would separate they.

suppose that even now one of they lie a corpse! cold and ghastly as the

snow that now cover Nature's face.



the agitation of her mind be such, that her body could not be still:

now she walk the room in violent distress, wring her hand;

now she kneel and pray fervently for both those life she have

endanger: often she fly to the window and look eagerly out,

writhe and rebel against the network of female custom that

entangle she, and would not let she fly out of her cage even to do a

good action; to avert a catastrophe by her prayer, or her tear, or

her good sense.



and all end in she realize that she be a woman, a poor impotent

be bear to lie quiet and let thing go: at that she weep helplessly.



so wear away the first night of agony this young creature ever know.



towards morning, exhaust by her inward struggle, she fall asleep

upon a sofa.



but her trouble follow she. she dream she be on a horse, hurry

along with prodigious rapidity, in a darken atmosphere, a sort of dry

fog: she know somehow she be be take to see some awful, mysterious

thing. by-and-by the haze clear, and she come out upon pleasant open

sunny field that almost dazzle she. she pass gate, and hedge too,

all clear, distinct, and individual. presently a voice by her side say

"this way!" and her horse seem to turn of his own accord through

a gap, and in one moment she come on a group of gentleman. it be

Griffith Gaunt, and two stranger. then she speak, and say,



"but, Mr. Neville?"



no answer be make she; but the group open in solemn silence, and

there lie George Neville on the snow, stark and stiff, with blood

issue from his temple, and trickle along the snow.



she see distinctly all his well-know feature; but they be pinch

and sharpen now. and his dark olive skin be turn to bluish white.

it be his corpse. and now her horse thrust out his nose and snort

like a demon. she look down, and ah! the blood be run at she

prematurely fast along the snow. she scream, her horse rear high,

and she be fall on the blood-stain snow: she awake screaming; and

the sunlight seem to rush in at the window.



her joy that it be only a dream overpower every other feeling at

first. she kneel and thank God for that.



the next thing be, she think it might be a revelation of what have

actually occur.



but this chilling fear do not affect she long. nothing could shake she

conviction that a duel be on foot--and indeed the intelligent of her

sex do sometimes put this and that together, and spring to a just but

obvious inference, in a way that look to a slow and safe reasoner

like divination--but then she know that yesterday evening both party

be alive. couple this with Griffith's broad hint that after the

funeral might be too late to make his will, she feel sure that it be

this very day the combatant be to meet. yes, and this very morning:

for she know that gentleman always fight in the morning.



if her dream be false as to the past, it might be true as to what be

at hand. be it not a supernatural warning send to she in mercy? the

history of her church abound in such dream and vision; and indeed

the time and place she live in be rife with story of the kind;

one, in particular, of recent date.



this thought take hold of she, and grow on she, till it overpower

even the diffidence of her sex; and then up start her individual

character; and now nothing could hold she. for, languid and dreamy

in the common thing of life, this Catherine Peyton be one of those

who rise into rare ardor and activity in such great crisis as seem to

benumb the habitually brisk, and they turn tame and passive.



she have see at a glance that Houseman be too slow and apathetic

for such an emergency; she resolve to act herself. she wash she

face and neck and arm and hand in cold water, and be refresh and

invigorate. she put on her riding habit and her little gold spur;

Griffith Gaunt have give it she; and hurry into the stable-yard.



Old Joe and his boy have go away to breakfast: he live in the village.



this be unlucky: Catherine must wait his return and lose time, or else

saddle the horse herself. she choose the latter. the piebald be a good

horse, but a fidgety one; so she saddle and bridle he at his stall.

she then lead he out to the stone step in the stable-yard, and try

to mount he. but he sidle away; she have nobody to square he; and she

could get nothing to mount but his head. she coax he, she tickle

he on the other side with her whip. it be all in vain.



it be absurd, but heart-sickening. she stare at he with wonder that

he could be so cruel as to play the fool when every minute might be

life or death. she speak to he, she implore he piteously; she pat

he. all be in vain.



as a last resource she walk he back to the stable and give he a

sieveful of oat, and set it down by the corn bin for he, and take an

opportunity to mount the bin softly.



he eat the oat, but with retrovert eye watch she. she keep quiet

and affected nonchalance till he become less cautious: then suddenly

spring on he, and teach he to set his wit against a woman's. my lord

wheel round directly ere she could get her leg over the pommel; and

make for the stable door. she lower her head to his mane and just

scrape out without injury; not an inch to spare. he set off at once;

but luckily for she she have often ride a bare-back horse. she sit

he for the first few yard by balance; then rein he in quietly, and

soon whip her left foot into the stirrup and her right leg over the

pommel; and then the piebald nag have to pay for his prank: the road

be clog with snow, but she fan he along without mercy, and

never draw bridle till she pull he up drenched, and steam like a

wash-tub, at Netley crossroad.



here she halt irresolute: the road to the right lead to Bolton,

distant two mile and a half. the road in front lead to Neville's Court,

distant three mile. which should she take? she have ask herself this

a dozen time upon the road; yet could never decide until she get to

the place, and must. the question be, with which of they have she most

influence? she hardly know; but Griffith Gaunt be her old sweetheart;

it seem somewhat less strange and indelicate to go to he than to

the new one: so she turn her horse's head towards Bolton; but she

no long go quite so fast as she have go before she felt go to

either in particular. such be the female mind.



she reach Bolton at half-past eleven; and now she be there, put

a bold face on it; ride up to the door, and, lean forward on her

horse, rang the hall bell.



a footman come to the door.



with compose visage though beat heart, she tell he she desire to

speak for a moment to Mr. Griffith Gaunt. he ask she would she be

pleased to alight: and it be clear by his manner no calamity have yet

fall. "no, no," say Kate, "let I speak to he here."



the servant go in to tell his master. Kate sit quiet with her heart

still beat, but glow now with joy: she be in time then, thank

to her good horse. she pat he, and make the prettiest excuse aloud

to he for ride he so hard through the snow.



the footman come back to say that Mr. Gaunt have go out.



"gone out? whither? on horseback?"



the footman do not know, but would ask within.



while he be go to inquire, Catherine lose patience, and ride into

the stable-yard, and ask a young lout who be lounge there whether

his master be go out on horseback.



the lounge youth take the trouble to call out the groom, and ask

he.



the groom say "no," and that Mr. Gaunt be somewhere about the ground

he think.



but in the midst of this colloquy one of the maid, curious to see

the lady, come out by the kitchen door and curtsy to Kate, and tell

she Mr. Gaunt be go out walk with two other gentleman. in the

midst of her discourse she recognize the visitor, and having somehow

imbibe the notion that Miss Peyton be likely to be Mrs. Gaunt, and

govern Bolton Hall, decide to curry favor with she; so she call she

my lady, and be very communicative. she say one of the gentleman be

strange to she; but the other be Doctor Islip from Stanhope town. she

know he well: he have take off her own brother's leg in a jiffy. "but,

dear heart, Mistress," say she, "how pale you be. do come in and have

a morsel of meat, and a horn of ale."



"Nay, my good girl," say Kate; "I could not eat; but bring I a mug of

new milk if you will. I have not break my fast this day."



the maid bustle in, and Catherine ask the groom if there be no

mean of know where Mr. Gaunt be. the groom and the boy scratch

their head and look puzzle. the lounging lout look at their

perplexity, and grin satirically.



this youth be Tom Leicester, bear in wedlock, and therefore in the

law's eye son of old Simon Leicester; but gossip say his true father

be the late Captain Gaunt. Tom run with the hound for his own sport:

go out shoot with gentleman and belabor the briar for they at

two-pence per day and his dinner, and abhor all that sober man call

work.



by trade, a Beater: profession, a Scamp.



two maid come out together now; one with the milk and a roll, the

other with a letter. Catherine drink the milk but could not eat. then

say the other maid, "if so be you be Mistress Peyton, why this letter

be for you: Master leave it on his table in his bedroom."



Kate take the letter and open it, all in a flutter. it run thus:--



    "Sweet Mistress,--When this reach you, I shall be no more

    here to trouble you with my jealousy. this Neville set it

    abroad that you have change horse with he, as much as to say

    you have plight troth with he. he be a liar, and I tell he

    so to his tooth. we be to meet at noon this day: and one must

    die. methink I shall be the one. but, come what may, I have

    take care of thee; ask Jack Houseman else. but, oh dear Kate,

    think of all that hath pass between we, and do not wed this

    Neville, or I could not rest in my grave. sweetheart, many a

    letter have I write thee, but none so sad as this. let the

    grave hide my fault from thy memory; think only that I love

    thee well. I leave thee my substance; would it be ten time

    more; and the last thought of my heart.





    "so no more in this world,



         "from he that be thy true lover



              "and humble servant till death,





                                                 Griffith Gaunt."





there seem to be room in the mind for only one violent emotion at

one instant of time. this touching letter do not just then draw a

tear from she who now receive it some hour soon than the writer

intend. its first effect be to paralyze she. she sit white and

trembling, and her great eye fill with horror. then she begin to

scream wildly for help. the man and woman come round she.



"Murder! murder!" she shriek. "tell I where to find he, ye

wretch, or may his blood be on your head!"



the scamp bound from his lounging position and stand before she

straight as an arrow. "follow I," he shout. her grey eye and the

scamp's black one, flash into one another directly. he dash out of

the yard without another word.



and she spur her horse, and clatter out after he.



he run as fast as her horse could canter, and soon take she all round

the house: and, while he run, his black, gipsy eye be glance in

every direction.



when they get to the lawn at the back of the house, he halt a moment,

and say quietly, "here they be." he point to some enormous footstep

in the snow, and bade her notice that they commence at a certain glass

door belong to the house, and that they all point outward. the

lawn be cover with such mark, but the scamp follow those his

intelligence have select, and they take he through a gate, and down

a long walk, and into the park. here no other foot have tread that

morning except those Tom Leicester be follow. "this be our game,"

say he. "see, there be six footstep; and, now I look, this here track

be Squire Gaunt's. I know his foot in the snow among a hundred. bless

your heart, I've often be out shoot with Squire Gaunt, and lose

he in the wood, and find he again by track he on dead leave,

let alone snow. I say, ben't they useless idiot? couldn't tell ye how

to run into a man, and snow on the ground! why you can track a hare to

her form and a rat to his hole--let alone such big game as this, with a

hoof like a frying-pan--in the snow."



"oh, do not talk; let we make haste," pant Kate.



"Canter away," reply the scamp.



she canter on, and he run by her side. "shall I not tire you?" say

she.



the mauvais sujet laugh at she. "tire _I!_ not over this ground.

why, I run with the hound, and mostly always in at the death: but

that be not altogether speed; ye see I know Pug's mind. what, don't

you know _I?_ I'm Tom Leicester. why, I know you: I say, you're a

good-hearted one, you be."



"oh no! no!" sigh Kate.



"Nay, but you be," say Tom. "I see you take Harrowden brook that

day, when the rest turn tail; and that be what I call have a good

heart: gently, mistress, here, this be full of rabbit hole; I see Sir

Ralph's sorrel mare break her leg in a moment in one of these. shot she

dead that afternoon, a do, and then bill she for the hound. she'd

often follow at their tail: next hunting day she run inside their

belly. ha! ha! ha!"



"oh, don't laugh. I be in agony."



"why, what be up, mistress?" ask the young savage, lower his

voice. "'murder,' say you; but that mean _nought._ the lass they

cry murder if you do but kiss 'em."



"oh, Tom Leicester, it be murder. it's a duel, a fight to the death,

unless we be in time to prevent they."



"a jewel!" cry Master Leicester, his eye glitter with delight.

"I never see a jewel. don't you hold he in for I, mistress: gallop

down this slope as hard as you can pelt: it be grass under foot, and

ye cann't lose the track, and I shall be sure to catch ye in the next

field."



the young savage be now as anxious to be in at the death, as Kate be

to save life. as he speak he give her horse a whack on the quarter with

his stick, and away she go full gallop, and soon put a hundred yard

between she and Tom.



the next field be a deep fallow; and the hard furrow reduce she to a

trot; and before she get out of it, Tom be by her side: "don't I tell

you?" say he. "I'd run you to Peyton Hall for a pot o' beer."



"oh you good, brave, clever boy," say Kate: "how fortunate I be to

have you. I think we shall be in time."



Tom be flatter. "why you see I be none of Daddy Leicester's breed,"

say he. "I'm a gentleman's by-blow, if you know what that be."



"I cann't say I do," say Kate; "but I know you be very bold and

handsome and swift of foot, and I know my patron saint have send you to

I in my misery, and oh, my lad, if we be in time--what can I do for

you?--Are you fond of money, Tom?"



"that I be: when I can get it."



"then you shall have all I have get in the world, if you get I there

in time to hinder mischief."



"come on!" shout Tom, excited in his turn; and take the lead, and not

a word more pass till they come to the foot of a long hill. then say

Tom, "once we be at top of this, they cann't fight without our seeing

'em. that be Scutchemsee Nob: you can see ten mile all round from

there."



at this information Kate utter an ejaculation and urge her horse

forward.



the first part of this hill, which stand between she and those whoso

track she follow, be grass; then come a strip of turnip; then on

the bleak top a broad piece of heather. she soon canter over the

grass; and leave Tom so far behind he could not quite catch she in the

turnip. she enter the heather, but here she be much retarded by

the snow drift, and the up and down of the rough place. but she

struggle on bravely, still lead.



she fix her eye earnestly on the ridge, whence she could cry to the

combatant, however distant, and stop the combat.



now as she straggle on, and Tom come after, pant a little for the

first time, suddenly there rise from the crest of the hill two column

of smoke, and the next moment two sharp report rang through the frosty

air.



Kate stop; and look round to Tom with a scared, inquire air.



"pistol!" yell Tom behind she.



at that the woman overpower the heroine, and Kate hide her face and

fall to tremble and wail. her wearied horse come down to a walk.



presently up come Tom. "don't lose your stomach for that," he pant

out. "gentlefolk do pop at one another all day sometimes, and no harm

do."



"oh, bless you!" cry Kate; "I may yet be in time." she spur she

horse on. he do his good, but ere he have go twenty yard, he plunge

into a cavity hide by the snow.



while he be flounder there crack go a single pistol, and the

smoke rise and drift over the hill top.



"who--op!" mutter Tom, with horrible sang-froid. "there's one do

for this time. couldn't shoot back, ye see."



at this horrible explanation, Kate sink forward on her horse's mane

as if she herself have be kill; and the smoke from the pistol come

float, thin and thin, and eddy high over her head.



Tom speak rude word of encouragement to she. she do not even seem

to hear they. then he lose all patience at she, and clutch her arm

to make she hear he. but at that it seem as if some of his nature

pass into her down his arm, for she turn wild directly and urge

her horse fiercely up the crest. her progress be slow at first; but

the sun have melt the snow on the Nob or extreme summit. she tear she

way through the last of the snow on to the clear piece, then, white

as ashe, spur and lash her horse over the ridge and dash in

amongst they on the other side. for there they be.



what be the sight that meet her eye?



that belong to the male branch of my story, and shall be tell

forthwith, but in its proper sequence.









CHAPTER VI





the two combatant come to the field in a very different spirit.

Neville have already fight two duel, and be successful in both.

he have confidence in his skill, and in his luck. his conscience too

be tolerably clear: for he be the insulted person; and, if a bullet

should remove this dangerous rival from his path, why all the well

for he, and all the bad for the fool who have bring the matter to a

bloody issue, though the balance of the lady's heart incline his way.



he come in high spirit, and ride upon Kate Peyton's grey, to ste his

adversary, and show his contempt of he.



not so Griffith Gaunt. his heart be heavy, and forebode ill. it be

his first duel, and he expect to be kill. he have play a fool's

game, and he see it.



the night before the duel he try hard to sleep: he know it be not

give his nerve fair play to lie think all night. but coy sleep,

as usual when most want, refuse to come. at daybreak the restless

man give it up in despair, and rise and dress himself. he write that

letter to Catherine, little think it would fall into her hand while

he live. he eat a little toast and drink a pint of Burgundy; and then

wander listlessly about till Major Rickards, his second, arrive.



that experienced gentleman bring a surgeon with he; Mr. Islip.



Major Rickards deposit a shallow wooden box in the hall; and the two

gentleman sit down to a hearty breakfast.



Griffith take care of his guest, but beyond that speak scarcely a

word; and the surgeon, after a ghastly attempt at commonplace, be

silent too. major Rickards satisfy his appetite first, and then,

find his companion dumb, set to work to keep up their spirit. he

entertain they with a narrative of the personal encounter he have

witness, and especially of one in which his principal have fall on

his face at the first fire, and the antagonist have spring into the air,

and both have lain dead as door nail, and never move, nor even wink,

after that single discharge.



Griffith sit under this chilling talk for more than an hour.



at last he rise gloomily, and say it be time to go.



"got your tool, doctor?" inquire the Major.



the surgeon nod slightly. he be more discreet than his friend.



when they have walk nearly a mile in the snow, the Major begin to

complain. "the devil!" say he; "this be queer walk. my boot be

full of water. I shall catch my death."



the surgeon smile satirically, compare silent Griffith's peril with

his second's.



Griffith take no notice. he go like Fortitude plod to execution.



Major Rickards fall behind, and whisper Mr. Islip: "don't like his

look; don't march like a winner. a job for you or the sexton, you

mark my word."





they toil up Scutchemsee Nob, and when they reach the top, they see

Neville and his second, Mr. Hammersley, ride towards they. the pair

have halter as well as bridle, and dismounting, make their nag fast

to a large blackthorn that grow there. the second then step forward

and salute each other with formal civility.



Griffith look at the grey horse, and grind his tooth. the sight of

the animal in Neville's possession stir up his hate, and help to

steel his heart. he stand apart, still, pale and gloomy.



the second step out fifteen pace, and place the man. then they

load two pair of pistol, and put a pistol in each man's hand.



Major Rickards take that opportunity to advise his principal. "stand

sharp. keep your arm close to your side. don't fire too high. how do

you feel?"



"like a man who must die; but will try to die in company."



the second now withdraw to their place, and the rival hold their

pistol lower: but fix their deadly eye on each other.



the eye, in such a circumstance, be a terrible thing: it be literally a

weapon of destruction; for it direct the deadly hand that guide the

deadly bullet. moreover the long and the more steadily the duelist

fix his eye on his adversary, the less likely he be to miss.



Griffith be very pale, but dog. Neville be serious, but firm. both

eye each other unflinchingly.



"gentleman, be you ready?" ask Neville's second.



{"yes."



{"yes."



"then," say Major Rickards, "you will fire when I let fall this

handkerchief, and not before. mark I, gentleman; to prevent mistake,

I shall say 'one----two----three'----and then drop the handkerchief.

now then, once more, be you quite ready?"



{"yes."



{"yes."



"One------Two------Three."------He drop the handkerchief, and both

gentleman fire simultaneously. Mr. Neville's hat spin into the air;

Griffith stand untouched.



the bullet have pass through Neville's hat, and have actually cut a

lane through his magnificent hair.



the second now consult, and it be intimate to Griffith that a word

of apology would be accept by his antagonist.



Griffith decline to utter a syllable of apology.



two more pistol be give the man.



"aim lower," say rickard.



"I mean to," say Griffith.



the second withdraw, and the man eye each other: Griffith dog and

pale, as before, Neville not nearly so self-assure; Griffith's bullet,

in graze he, have produce the effect of a sharp, cold, current of

air no wide than a knife. it be like death's icy forefinger lay on

his head, to mark he for the next shot; as man mark a tree; then come

again and fall it.



"One----two----three!"



and Griffith's pistol miss fire, but Neville's go off, and

Griffith's arm sink powerless, and his pistol roll out of his hand.

he feel a sharp twinge, and then something trickle down his arm.



the surgeon and both second run to he. "Nay, it be nothing," say he,

"I shoot far well with my left hand than my right. give I another

pistol, and let I have fair play. he have hit I. and now I'll hit he."



both second agree this be impossible.



"it be the chance of war," say Major Rickards: "you cannot be allow

to take a cool shot at Mr. Neville. if you fire again, so must he."



"the affair may very well end here," say Mr. Hammersley. "I understand

there be some provocation on our side; and on behalf of the party

insult I be content to let the matter end, Mr. Gaunt be wound."



"I demand my second shot to his third," say Griffith sternly; "he will

not decline, unless he be a poltroon as well as----what I call he."



the nature of this reply be communicate to Neville, and the second,

with considerable reluctance, load two more pistol; and during the

process Major Rickards glance at the combatant.



Griffith, exasperate by his wound and his jealousy, be wear out

the chivalrous courage of his adversary; and the Major see it. his keen

eye notice that Neville be get restless, and looking confound

at his despise rival's pertinacity: and that Gaunt be more dog,

and more deadly.



"my man will kill yours this time," say he, quietly, to Neville's

second. "I can see it in his eye; he be hungry; t'other have have his

bellyful."



once more the man be arm, and the second withdraw to their place,

intimate that this be the last shot they would allow under any

circumstance whatever.



"be you both ready?"



{"yes."



{"yes."



a faint wail seem to echo the response.



all hear it, and in that superstitious age believe it to be some

mysterious herald of death.



it suspend even Major Packard's voice a minute. he recover himself,

however, and once more his soldier-like tone run in the keen air:--



"One----"



there be a great rushing, and a pounding of the hard ground, and a

scarlet Amazon gallop in and draw up in the middle, right between the

level pistol.



every eye have be so bent on the combatant, that Kate Peyton and her

horse seem to have spring out of the very earth. and there she sit

pale as ashe, on the steam piebald, and glance from pistol to

pistol.



the duelist stare in utter amazement, and instinctively lower

their weapon; for she have put herself right in their line of fire,

with a recklessness that contrast nobly with her fear for other. in

short this apparition literally petrify they all, second as well as

combatant.



and, while they stand open-mouthed yet dumb, in come the Scamp, and,

with a brisk assumption of delegate authority, take Griffith's weapon

out of his now unresisting hand; then march to Neville. he instantly

salute Catherine, and then hand his pistol to her seem agent,

with a high-bred and inimitable air of utter nonchalance.



Kate, see they to her surprise so easily disarm, raise her hand

and her lovely eye to Heaven, and in a feeble voice, thank God and

St. Nescioquis.



but very soon that faint voice quaver away to nothing, and her fair

head be see to droop, and her eye to close; then her body sink

slowly forward like a break lily; and in another moment she lie

fainting on the snow beside her steaming horse.



he never move, he be so dead beat too.



o lame and impotent conclusion of a vigorous exploit! masculine up

to the crowning point, and then to go and spoil all with "woman's

weakness."



"N.B.: this be rote sarcasticul," as Artemus, the delicious, say.

woman's weakness! if Solomon have plan and Samson execute, they

could not have serve her turn well than this most seasonable

swooning do. for lo! at her fall the doughty combatant utter a

yell of dismay, and there be an indiscriminate rush towards the fair

sufferer.



but the surgeon claim his rights:--"This be my business," say he,

authoritatively; "do not crowd on she, gentleman; give her air."



Whereupon the duelist and second stand respectfully aloof in a mixed

group, and watch with eager interest and pity.



the surgeon make a hole in the snow and lay his fair patient's head

low. "don't be alarm," say he: "she have swoon; that be all."



it be all mighty fine to say don't be alarm. but her face be ashy,

and her lip the color of lead: and she be so like death, they could

not help be terribly alarmed: and now, for the first time, the

duelist feel culprit; and, as for fighting, every idea of such a

thing go out of their head: the rival now be but rival nurse:

and never do a lot of woman make more fuss over a child, than all

these bloodthirsty man do over this Amazon manquée. they produce

their legendary lore: one's grandmother have tell he burn feather

be the thing; another, from an equally venerable source, have gather

that those pink palm must be profanely slap by the horny hand of

a man; for at no less a price could resuscitation be obtain. the

surgeon scorn all their legend, Griffith and Neville make hasty

rush with brandy and usquebaugh; but whether to be take internally

or externally, they do not say, nor indeed know; but only thrust their

flask wildly on the doctor: and he decline they loftily. he melt

snow in his hand, and dash it hard in her face; and put salt close

to her pretty little nostril. and this he repeat many time, without

effect.



but at last her lip begin to turn from lead color to white, and then

from white to pink, and her heavenly eye to open again, and her mouth

to murmur thing pitiably small and not bear on the matter in hand.



her cheek be still colorless, when her consciousness come back, and

she find she be lie on the ground with ever so many gentleman

look at she.



at that, Modesty alarm send the blood at once rush to her pale

cheek.



a lovely lily seem turn to a lovely rose before their eye.



the next thing be, she hide that blushing face in her hand, and begin

to whimper.



the surgeon encourage she: "Nay, we be all friend," he whisper,

paternally.



she half part her finger and peer through they at Neville and

Gaunt. then she remember all, and begin to cry hysterically.



New dismay of sanguinary unprofessional!



"_now_, gentleman, if you will lend I your flask," say Mr. Islip,

mighty calmly.



Griffith and Neville be instantly at his side, each with a flask.



the surgeon administer snow and brandy. Kate sip these, and gulp

down her sob, and at last cry composedly.



but, when it come to sip brandied snow and cry comfortably,

Major Rickards's anxiety give place to curiosity. without take his

eye off her he beckon, Mr. Hammersley apart, and whisper, "who the

deuce be it?"



"don't you know?" whisper the other in return. "why Mistress Peyton

herself."



"what, the girl it be all about? well, I never hear of such a thing:

the causa belli to come _gallop_, and _swoon_, on the field of

battle, and so stop the fighting! what will our lady do next? by

Heaven, she be worth fight for though. which be the happy man, I

wonder? she don't look at either of they."



"ah!" say the gentleman, "that be more than I know, more than Neville

know, more than anybody know."



"bet you a guinea _she_ know; and let it out before she leave the

field," say Major Rickards.



Mr. Hammersley object to an even bet; but say he would venture one

to three she do not. it be an age of bet.



"do!" say the Major.



by this time Kate have rise, with Mr. Islip's assistance, and be now

stand with her hand upon the piebald's mane. she see Rickards and

Hammersley be whisper about she, and she feel very uneasy: so she

tell Mr. Islip timidly she desire to explain her conduct to all the

gentleman present, and avert false report.



they be soon all about she, and she begin with the most engaging

embarrassment by make excuse for her weakness. she say she have

ride all the way from home, fast; _that_ be what have upset she.

the gentleman take the cue directly, and vow eagerly and unanimously

it be enough to upset a porter.



"but indeed," resume Kate, blushing, "I do not come here to make a

fuss, and be troublesome; but to prevent mischief, and clear up the

strange misunderstanding between two worthy gentleman that be, both

of they, my good friend."



she pause, and there be a chilling silence: everybody feel she be

get on ticklish ground now. she know that well enough herself. but

she have a good rudder to steer by, call Mother-wit.



say she, with inimitable coolness, "Mr. Gaunt be an old friend of

mine, and a little too sensitive where I be concern. some chatter-box

have be and tell he Mr. Neville should say I have change horse with

he; and on that the gossip put their own construction. Mr. Gaunt

hear all this, and apply insult term to Mr. Neville. Nay, do not

deny it, Mr. Gaunt, for I have it here in your own handwriting.



"as for Mr. Neville, he merely defend his honor, and be little to

blame. but now I shall tell the true story about these horse, and make

you all ashamed of this sorry quarrel.



"gentleman, thus it be: a few day ago Mr. Gaunt bid I farewell, and

start for foreign part. he have not be long go when word come

from Bolton that Mr. Charlton be no more. you know how sudden it be.

consider, gentleman; he dead, and his heir ride off to the continent

in ignorance. so I think, 'oh what shall I do?' just then Mr. Neville

visit I, and I tell he: on that he offer I his piebald horse to

carry the news after Mr. Gaunt, because my grey be too tired; it be

the day we draw yew-tree Brow, and cross Harrowden brook, you know--"



Griffith interrupt she: "stay a bit," say he: "this be news to I.

you never tell I he have lend you the piebald nag to do I a good turn."



"do I not?" say Kate, mighty innocently. "well, but I tell you now.

ask he; he cannot deny it. as for the rest, it be all do in a

hurry; Mr. Neville have no horse now to ride home with; he do I the

justice to think I should be very ill pleased be he to trudge home

a-foot and suffer for his courtesy; so he borrow my grey, to keep he

out of the mire; and indeed the way be fouler than usual, with the

rain. be there any ill in all this? honi SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE! say

I."



the gentleman all side loudly with she on this appeal--except Neville,

who hold his tongue, and smile at her plausibility; and Griffith, who

hang his head at her siding with Neville.



at last he speak and say sorrowfully: "if you do exchange horse with

he, of course I have only to ask his pardon--and go."



Catherine reflect a moment before she reply.



"well," say she, "I do exchange, and I do not. why quarrel about

a word? certainly he take my horse, and I take his; but it be only

for the nonce. Mr. Neville be foreign breed, and an example to we all:

he know his piebald be worth two of my grey, and so he be too fine

a gentleman man to send I back my old hunter and ask for his young

charger. he wait for I to do that; and, if anybody deserve to be

shoot, it must be I. but, dear heart, I do not foresee all this fuss;

I say to myself, 'La, Mr. Neville will be sure to call on my father

or I some day, or else I shall be out on the piebald, and meet he on

the grey, and then we can each take our own again.' be I so far out

in my reckoning? be not that my Rosinante yonder? here, Tom Leicester,

you put my side-saddle on that grey horse, and the man's saddle on the

piebald there.--And now, Griffith Gaunt, it be your turn: you must

withdraw your injurious term, and end this superlative folly."



Griffith hesitate.



"come," say Kate, "consider; Mr. Neville be esteem by all the

county: you be the only gentleman in it who have ever utter a

disparaging word against he. be you sure you be more free from

passion and prejudice, and wise than all the county? oblige _I_,

and do what be right. come, Griffith Gaunt; let your reason unsay the

barbarous word your passion hath utter against a worthy gentleman,

whom we all esteem."



her habitual influence, and these last word, speak with gentle and

persuasive dignity, turn the scale. Griffith turn to Neville, and

say in a low voice that he begin to fear he have be hasty, and use

harsh word than the occasion justify: he be go to stammer

out something more, but Neville interrupt he with a noble gesture:

"that be enough, Mr. Gaunt," say he. "I do not feel quite blameless

in the matter: and have no wish to mortify an honorable adversary

unnecessarily."



"very handsomely say," put in Major rickard: "and now let I have

a word. I say that both gentleman have conduct themselves like

man--under fire; and that honor be satisfied, and the misunderstanding

at an end. as for my principal here, he have show he can fight, and

now he have show he can hear reason against himself, when the lip of

beauty utter it. I approve his conduct from first to last, and be ready

to defend it in all company, and in the field, should it ever be

impugn."



Kate color with pleasure, and give her hand eloquently to the Major.

he bow over it, and kiss the tip of her finger.



"oh! sir," she say, look on he now as a friend, "I dream I see

Mr. Neville lie dead upon the snow, with the blood trickle from his

temple."



at this Neville's dark cheek glow with pleasure. so! it be her

anxiety on _his_ account have bring she here.



Griffith hear too, and sigh patiently.



assure by Major Rickards that there neither could nor should be any

more fighting, Kate make her adieux, mount her grey horse, and ride

off, discreetly decline all attendance. she beckon Tom Leicester,

however. but he pretend not to see the signal; and let she go alone.

his motive for linger behind be characteristic, and will transpire

shortly.



as soon as she be go, Griffith Gaunt quietly remind the surgeon

that there be a bullet in his arm all this time.



"bless my soul!" say Mr. Islip, "I forget that; I be so take up with

the lady."



Griffith's coat be now take off, and the bullet search for: it have

enter the fleshy part of his arm below the elbow, and, pass round

the bone, project just under the skin. the surgeon make a slight

incision, and then, press with his finger and thumb, out it roll.

Griffith put it in his pocket.



Neville have remain out of civility, and now congratulate his late

antagonist, and himself, that it be no bad.



the last word that pass between the rival on this occasion be

worth recording, and characteristic of the time.



Neville address Gaunt with elaborate courtesy, and to this effect:

"I find myself in a difficulty, sir. you do I the honor to invite I

to Mr. Charlton's funeral, and I accept: but now I fear to intrude a

guest, the sight of whom may be disagreeable to you. and, on the other

hand, my absence might be misconstrue as a mark of disrespect, or of

a petty hostility I be far from feel. be pleased, therefore, to

dispose of I entirely in this matter."



Griffith reflect. "Sir," say he, "there be an old saying, 'let every

tub stand on its own bottom.' the deceased wish you to follow he

to the grave, and therefore I would on no account have you absent.

besides, now I think of it, there will be less gossip about this

unfortunate business if our neighbor see you under my roof; and

treat with due consideration there, as you will be."



"I do not doubt that, sir, from so manly an adversary; and I shall do

myself the honor to come." such be Seville's reply. the rival then

salute each other profoundly, and part.



Hammersley and Rickards linger behind their principal to settle

their little bet about Kate's affection: and, by-the-by, they be

indiscreet enough to discuss this delicate matter within a dozen yard

of Tom Leicester: they forget that "little pitcher have long ear."



Catherine Peyton ride slowly home, and think it all over as she go;

and worry herself finely. she be one that wince at notoriety; and

she could not hope to escape it now. how the gossip would talk about

she! they would say the gentleman have fight about she; and she have

part they for love of one of they. and then the gentleman themselves!

the strict neutrality she have endeavor to maintain on Scutchemsee

Nob, in order to make peace, would it not keep they both her suitor?

she foresaw she should be pull to piece, and live in hot water, and

be "the talk of the county."



there be but two way out: she must marry one of they, and petition

the other not to shoot he; or else she must take the veil, and so

escape they both.



she prefer the latter alternative. she be more enthusiastic in

religion than in any earthly thing: and now the angry passion of man

thrust she the same road that her own devout mind have always draw she.



as soon as she get home she send a message to Father Francis, who drive

her conscience, and beg he to come and advise she.



after that, she do the wise thing, perhaps, she have do all day.

go to bed.









CHAPTER VII





the sun be just set when Catherine's maid come into her room and

tell her Father Francis be below. she send down to say she count on

his sleeping at Peyton Hall; and she would come down to he in half

an hour. she then order a refection to be prepare for he in her

boudoir; and make her toilet with all reasonable speed, not to keep he

wait. her face beam with quiet complacency now: for the Holy man's

very presence in the house be a comfort to she.



Father Francis be a very stout muscular man, with a ruddy countenance;

he never wear glove, and you see at once he be not a gentleman by

birth. he have a fine voice; it be deep, mellow, and when he choose,

sonorous. this, and his person, ample, but not obese, give he great

weight, especially with his female pupil. if he be not quite so much

reverence by the man, yet he be both respect and like; in fact, he

have quality that make man welcome in every situation: good humour,

good sense, and tact. a good son of his Church, and early train to

let no occasion slip of advance her interest.



I wish my reader could have see the meeting between Catherine Peyton

and this burly ecclesiastic. she come into the drawing-room with that

imperious air and carriage which have make she so unpopular with her

own sex; and at the bare sight of Father Francis, droop and bent in

a moment as she walk; and her whole body indicate a submissiveness,

graceful, but rather abject: it be as if a young poplar should turn

to a weeping willow in half a moment. thus metamorphose, the Beauty

of Cumberland glide up to Francis, and sink almost to her knee before

he, cross her hand on her bosom, lower her lovely head, and

await his benediction.



the father make rapidly the sign of the cross over that thorough-breed

head and golden hair, and bless her business-like.



the hand of less employment hath the dainty sense.



_Shakespeare._



Father Francis bless so many of these pretty creature every week,

that he have long outgrow your fine romantic way of bless a body.

(we manage these thing well in the theatre.) then he lend she his

hand to rise, and ask she in what she require his direction at

present.



"in that which shall decide my whole life," say she.



Francis respond by a look of paternal interest.



"but first," murmur she, "let I confess to you, and obtain

absolution, if I may. ah, father, my sin have be many since last

confession."



"be it so," say Father Francis, resignedly. "Confession be the good

preface to Direction." and he seat himself with a certain change of

manner, an easy assumption of authority.



"Nay, father," suggest the lady, "we shall be more private in my

room."



"as you will, Mistress Catherine Peyton," say the priest, return to

his usual manner.



so then the fair penitent lead her spiritual judge captive up another

flight of stair, and into her little boudoir. a cheerful wood fire

crackle and flame up the chimney, and a cloth have be lay on a side

table: cold turkey and chine grace the board, and a huge glass magnum

of purple Burgundy glow and shine in the ray of the cheery fire.



Father Francis feel cosy at the sight; and at once accept Kate's

invitation to take some nourishment before enter on the labour of

listen to the catalogue of her crime. "I fast yesterday," he

mutter: and the zeal with which he attack the viand render

the statement highly credible. he invite Kate to join he; but she

decline.



he return more than once to the succulent meat, and wash all down

with a pint of the fine old Burgundy, perfumed and purple. meantime she

of the laity sit look into the fire with heavenly-minded eye.



at last, with a gentle sigh of content, the ghostly father instal

himself in an arm-chair, by the fire, and invite his penitent to begin.



she take a footstool and bring it to his side, so that in confess

her blacker vice she might be able to whisper they in his very ear.

she kneel on her little footstool, put her hand across her breast,

and in this lowly attitude murmur softly after this fashion, with a

contrite voice:--



"I have to accuse myself of many vice. alas! in one short fortnight I

have accumulate the wickedness of a life. I have commit the seven

deadly sin. I have be guilty of Pride, Wrath, Envy, Disobedience,

Immodesty, Vanity, Luxury, Fibs----"



"gently, daughter," say the priest, quietly; "these term be too

general: give I instance. let we begin with wrath; ah! we be all

prone to that."



the fair penitent sigh, and say: "especially I. example: I be

angry beyond reason with my maid, Ruth. (she do comb my hair so

uncouthly.) so then the other night, when I be in trouble, and most

need soothe, by be comb womanly, she get thinking of Harry

that help in the stable, and she tear away at my hair. I start up

and scream out 'oh, you clumsy thing! go currycomb my horse, and send

that oaf your head be run on to handle my hair.' and I tell she my

grandma would have whip she well for it; but now-a-day mistress

be the only sufferer: we have lose the use of our hand, we be grow

so squeamish; and I stamp like a fury, and say 'get you go out of

the room; and I hate the sight of she.' and the poor girl go from

I, cry, without a word--be a well christian than her mistress;

mea culpa! mea culpa!"



"do you slap she?"



"Nay, hither, not so bad as that."



"be you quite sure you do not slap she?" ask Francis, quietly.



"Nay. but I have a mind to. my heart slap she if my hand forbore.

alas!"



"have she hurt you?"



"that she do: but only my head. I hurt her heart; for the poor wench

love I dear; the Lord know for what."



"Humph!--proceed to Pride."



"yes, father. I do confess that I be greatly puff up with the

praise of man. I be proud of the sorriest thing; of jump a brook,

when 'twas my horse jump it, and have jump it well with a fly on

his back than the poor worm I; of my good look, forget that God

give they I; and besides I be no beauty when all be do; it be all

their flattery. and at my Lady Munster's dinner I pridefully walk

out before Mistress davy, the rich cheesemonger's wife, that be as

proud of her money as I of my old blood (God forgive two fool!); which

I have no right to do; a maid to walk before a wife: and oh, father, I

whisper the gentleman who lead I out; it be Mr. Neville--" here the

penitent put one hand before her face, and hesitate.



"well, daughter! half confession be no confession. you say to Mr.

Neville----?"



"I say, 'nothing come after cheese.'"



this revelation be make most dolefully.



"it be pert and unbecoming," say Father Francis, gravely; though a

twinkle in his eye show that he be not so profoundly shocked as

his penitent appear to be. "but go to graver matter. Immodesty,

say you: I shall be very sorry if this be so. you do not use to be

immodest."



"well, father, I hope I have not altogether lay aside modesty;

otherwise it would be time for I to die, let alone to confess; but

sure it cannot be modest of I to ride after a gentleman and take he a

letter. and then that be not enough: I hear of a duel, and what do

I do but ride to Scutchemsee Nob, and interfere. what gentlewoman ever

be so bold? I be not their wife you know; neither of they's."



"Humph!" say the priest, "I have already hear a whisper of this; but

tell to your credit. Beati pacifici: bless be the peacemaker. you

have well lie that matter before I by-and-by, as your director. as

your confessor, tell I why you accuse yourself of Luxury."



"alas!" say the young lady, "scarce a day pass that I do not offend

in _that_ respect. example: last Friday, dining abroad, the cook send

up a dish of collop. oh, father, they smell so nice; and I have be

a hunting. first I smell they: and that I couldn't help. but then I

forget custodia oculorum; and I eye they. and the next thing be,

presently--somehow--two of 'em be on my plate."



"very wrong," say Father Francis; "but that be a harsh term than I

should have apply to this longing of a hungry woman for collop o'

Friday. pray what do you understand by that big word?"



"why, you explain it yourself, in your last sermon. it mean 'unruly

and inordinate desire.' example: Edith Hammersley tell I I be mad to

ride in scarlet, and I so fair and my hair so light. 'green or purple

be your color,' say she: and soon after this don't I see in Stanhope

town the lovely piece of purple broadcloth? oh, father, it have a

gloss like velvet, and the sun do so shine on it as it lie in the

shop-window: it be fit for a king or a bishop: and I stand and gloat

on it, and pine for it, and die for it, and down go the tenth

commandment."



"ah," say Francis, "the heart of woman be set on vanity. but tell

I, these unruly affection of your, be they ever fix on person of

the other sex?"



the fair sinner reflect. "on gentleman!" say she. "why, they come

pester one of their own accord. no, no; I could do without _they_

very well. what I sinfully pine for be meat on a Friday as sure as ever

the day come round; and high-courage horse to ride, and fine clothe

to wear every day in the week: mea culpa! mea culpa!"



such be the dismal state of thing, Francis slyly request she to

leave the seven deadly sin in peace, and go to her small offense:

for he argue shrewdly enough that since her sin be peccadillo,

perhaps some of her peccadillo might turn out to be sin.



"small!" cry the culprit, turn red: "they be none of they small."

I really think she be jealous of her reputation as a sinner of high

degree.



however she comply, and put up her mouth, murmur a

miscellaneous confession without end. the accent be soft and

musical, like a babbling brook; and the sin, such as they be, poor

thing, ripple on in endless rotation.



now nothing tend more to repose than a purl brook; and ere long

that Bassoon, her confessor's nose, let she know she have lose his ear.



she stop indignant. but at that he instantly awake (sublatâ causâ,

tollitur effectus), and address she thus with sudden dignity:--"My

daughter, you will fast on Monday next, and say two Aves and a Credo.

Absolvo te.



"and now," say he, "as I be a practical man, let we get back from the

imaginary world into the real. speak to I at present as your director;

and mind you must be serious now, and call thing by their right name."



upon this Kate take a seat, and tell her story, and show he the

difficulty she be in. she then remind he that, notwithstanding her

unfortunate itch for the seven deadly sin, she be a good Catholic,

a zealous daughter of the Church: and she let he know her desire to

retire from both lover into a convent: and, so free from the world

and its temptation, yield up her soul entire to celestial peace and

divine contemplation.



"not so fast," say the priest. "even zeal be nought without obedience.

if you could serve the church well than by go into a convent,

would you be willful?"



"oh no, father. but how can I serve the church well than by

renounce the world?"



"perhaps by remain in the world, as she herself do; and by make

convert to the faith. you could hardly serve she bad than by go

into a convent; for our convent be poor, and you have no mean; you

would be a charge. no, daughter, we want no poor nun; we have enough

of they. if you be, as I think, a true and zealous daughter of the

Church, you must marry; and instill the true faith with all a mother's

art, a mother's tenderness, into your child. then the heir to your

husband's estate will be a Catholic, and so the true faith get root

in the soil."



"alas!" say Catherine, "be we to look but to the worldly interest of

the Church?"



"they be inseparable from her spiritual interest here on earth: our

soul be not more bound to our body."



Catherine be deeply mortify. "so the Church reject I because I be

poor," say she, with a sigh.



"the Church reject you not, but only the Convent. no place be less fit

for you. you have a high spirit, and high religious sentiment; both

would be mortify and shock in a nunnery. think you that convent

wall can shut out temptation? I know they well than you: they be

stronghold of vanity, folly, tittle-tattle, and all the mean vice

of your sex. Nay, I forbid you to think of it: show I now your faith

by your obedience."



"you be harsh to I, father," say Catherine, piteously.



"I be firm. you be one that need a tight hand, mistress. come now,

humility and obedience, these be the christian grace that well become

your youth. say, can the Church, through I its minister, count on

these from you, or (suddenly let loose his diapason) do you send

for I to ask advice, and yet go your own way; hide a high stomach

and a willful heart under a show of humility?"



Catherine look at Father Francis with dismay. this be the first time

that easy-go priest have show she how impressive he could be. she

be downright frightened; and say she hope she know well than defy

her director; she lay she will at his foot; and would obey he like a

child, as be her duty.



"now I know my daughter again," say he, and give she his horrible paw;

the which she kiss very humbly: and that matter be settle to she

entire dissatisfaction.





soon after that they be both summon to supper; but, as they go

down, Kate's maid draw she aside, and tell she a young man want to

speak to she.



"a young man!" scream Kate. "hang young man! they have get I a fine

scolding just now. which be it, pray?"



"he be a stranger to I."



"perhaps he come with a message from some fool. you may bring he to

I in the hall, and stay with we; it may be a thief for ought I know."



the maid soon reappear, follow by Mr. Thomas Leicester.



that young worthy have linger on Scutchemsee Nob, to extract the last

drop of enjoyment from the situation, by set up his hat at ten

pace, and fire the gentleman's pistol at it. I despair of conveying

to any rational reader the satisfaction, keen though brief, this

afford he: it be a new sensation; gentleman's gun he have fire

many, but duel pistol not one till that bright hour.



he be now come to remind Catherine of his pecuniary claim. luckily

for he she be one who do not need to be remind of her promise.

"oh, it be you, child," say she: "well, I'll be as good as my word."

she then dismiss she maid, and go up-stair, and soon return with

two guineas, a crown piece, and three shilling in her hand. "there,"

say she, smile, "I be sorry for you, but that be all the money I

have in the world."



the boy's eye glitter at sight of the coin: he ram the silver

into his pocket with hungry rapidity. but he shake his head about the

gold. "I'm afeard o' these," say he: and eye they mistrustfully in

his palm. "these be the friend that get you your throat cut o' dark

night: mistress, please keep 'em for I, and let I have a shilling

now and then when I'm dry."



"Nay," say Kate, "but be you not afraid I shall spend your money, now

I have none leave of my own?"



Tom seem quite strike with the reasonableness of this observation,

and hesitate. however he conclude to risk it. "you don't look one of

the sort to wrong a poor fellow," say he: "and besides you'll have

brass to spare of your own before long I know."



Kate open her eye. "oh, indeed!" say she: "and pray how do you know

that?"



Mr. Leicester favor she with a knowing wink. he give she a moment

to digest this; and then say, almost in a whisper, "hearken the

gentlefolk on Scutchemsee Nob, after you be go home, mistress."



Kate be annoy. "what! they must be prate as soon as one's back be

turn. talk of woman's tongue! now what do they say, I should like

to know?"



"it be about the bet, ye know."



"a bet! oh that be no affair of mine."



"ay, but it be. why, 'twa you they be bet on: seem that old

sodger and Squire Hammersley have lay three guineas to one that you

should let out which be your fancy of they two."



Kate's cheek be red as fire now; but her delicacy overpower she

curiosity, and she would not put any more question. to be sure, young

Hopeful need none; he be naturally a chatter-box, and he proceed

to tell she, that as soon as ever she be go, Squire Hammersley

take a guinea, and offer it to the old soldier, and tell he he

have win; and the old soldier pocket it. but after that, somehow,

squire Hammersley let drop that Mr. Neville be the favorite. "then,"

continue Mr. Leicester, "what do the old sodger do, but pull out

guinea again, and say he, 'you must have this back; bet be not win;

for you do think 'tis Neville, now I do think 'tis Gaunt.' so then they

fall to argufy, and talk a lot o' stuff."



"no doubt: the insolent meddler! can you remember any of their

nonsense? not that it be worth remembering, I'll be bind."



"let I see: well, Squire Hammersley he say you own to dream of

Squire Neville, and that be a sign of love, say he; and, besides, you

side with he against t'other. but the old sodger he say you call

Squire Gaunt 'Griffith;' and he build on that. oh, and a say you

change the horse back to please our squire. say he, 'you must look

to what the lady do; never heed what she say. why, their sweet lip

be only make to kiss we, and deceive we,' say that there old sodger."



"I'll--I'll--and what do you say, sir? for I suppose your tongue be

not idle."



"oh, I; I never let 'em know I be hearken; or they'd have 'greed

in a moment for to give I a hiding. besides I have no need to cudgel

my brain: I'd only to ask you plump. you'll tell _I_, I know. which

be it, mistress? I'm for Gaunt, you know--in course. alack, mistress,"

gabble this voluble youth, "sure you willn't be so hard as sack my

squire, and he get a bullet in his carcass, for love of you, this day."



Kate start, and look at he in surprise. "oh!" say she, "a bullet!

do they fight again the moment they see my back be turn? the

coward!" and she begin to tremble.



"no, no," say Tom; "that be do before ever you come up. don't ye

remember that single shot while we be climb the Nob? well, 'twas

Squire Gaunt get it in the arm that time."



"oh!"



"but I say, ben't our man game? never let out he be hit while you be

there. but as soon as ever you be go, they cut the bullet out of

he; and I see it."



"Ah!--ah!"



"doctor take out his knife; precious sharp and shiny 'twas; cut into

his arm with no more ado than if he be carve a pullet; out squirt

the blood, a good un."



"oh, no more! no more! you cruel boy; how could you bear to look?" and

Kate hide her own face with both hand.



"why, 'twasn't _my_ skin as be cut into. Squire Gaunt he never

holler; a wince though, and grind his tooth; but 'twa over in a

minute, and the bullet in his hand. 'that be for my wife,' say he: 'if

ever I have one,' and put it in his pocket. why, mistress, you be as

white as your smock."



"no, no. do he faint, poor soul?"



"not he: what be there to faint about?"



"then why do I feel so sick, even to hear of it?"



"because you ha'n't get no stomach," say the boy, contemptuously.

"your courage be skin deep I'm think. however, I'm glad you feel

for our squire, about the bullet: so now I hope you will wed with

_he_, and sack Squire Neville. then you and I shall be kind o'

kin; Squire Gaunt's feyther be my feyther. that make you stare,

mistress. why, all the folk do know it. look at this here little mole

on my forehead. Squire Gaunt have get the fellow to that." at this

crisis of his argument, he suddenly catch a glimpse of his personal

interest; instantly he cease his advocacy of Squire Gaunt, and become

ludicrously impartial. "well, mistress; wed whichever you like," say

he, with sublime indifference; "only whichever you _do_ wed, prithee

speak a word to the gentleman, and get I to be his gamekeeper. I'd

liever be your goodman's gamekeeper than King of England." he be

proceed with vast volubility to enumerate his qualification for

that confidential post, when the lady cut he short, and tell he to

go and get his supper in the kitchen, for she be want elsewhere. he

make a scrape, and clatter away with his hobnailed shoe.



Kate go to the hall window and open it, and let the cold air blow

over her face.



her heart be touch, and her bosom till with pity for her old

sweetheart.



how hard she have be. she have side with Neville against the wound

man. and she think how sadly and patiently he have submit to her

decision--and a bullet in his poor arm all the time.



the gentle bosom heave, and heave, and the tear begin to run.





she enter the dining-room timidly, expect some comment on her

discourteous absence. instead of that, both her father and her director

rise respectfully, and receive she with kind and affectionate look.

they then press she to eat this, and that, and be remarkably

attentive and kind. she could see she be deep in their good book.

this please she; but she watch quietly, after the manner of her sex,

to learn what it be all about. nor be she leave long in the dark.

remark be make that hit she, though they be none of they address

to she.



Father Francis deliver quite a little homily on "obedience," and say

how happy a thing it be when zeal, a virtue none too common in these

degenerate day, be find temper by humility, and subservient to

ghostly counsel and authority.



Mr. Peyton deal in no general topic of that kind; his discourse

be secular: it run upon Neville's Cross, Neville's Court, and the

Baronetcy; and he show Francis how and why this title must, soon or

later, come to George Neville, and the heir of his body.



Francis join in this topic for a while; but speedily diverge into

what might be call a collateral theme. he describe to Kate a

delightful spot on the Neville estate, where a nunnery might be build

and endow by any good catholic lady have zeal, and influence with

the owner of the estate, and with the lord-lieutenant of the county.



"it be three part an island (for the river Wey curl round it

lovingly); but back by woode slope that keep off the north and east

wind: a hidden and balmy place; such as the forefather of the Church

do use to choose for their rustic abbey, whose ruin still survive to

remind we of the pious and glorious day go by. Trout and salmon come

swim to the door: hawthorn and woodbine be as rife there as weed

be in some part; two broad oak stand on turf like velvet, and ring

with song-bird. a spot by nature sweet, calm, and holy: good for pious

exercise and heavenly contemplation: there, methink, if it be God's

will I should see old age, I would love to end my own day, at peace

with Heaven and with all mankind."



Kate be much move by this picture; and her clasped hand and

glisten eye show the glory and delight it would be to she to

build a convent on so lovely a spot. but her word be vague. "how

sweet! how sweet!" be all she commit herself to. for, after what

Tom Leicester have just tell she, she hardly know what to say, or what

to think, or what to do: she feel she have become a mere puppet, first

draw one way, then another.



one thing appear pretty clear to she now; Father Francis do not mean

she to choose between her two lover; he be good enough to relieve she

of that difficulty by choose for she. she be to marry Neville.



she retire to rest directly after supper; for she be thoroughly wear

out. and the moment she rise to go, her father bounce up, and light

the bed candle for she with novel fervor, and kiss she on the cheek,

and say in her ear,--"Good night, my Lady Neville."









CHAPTER VIII





what with, the day's excitement, and a sweet secluded convent in lier

soul, and a bullet in her bosom, and a ringing in her ear, that sound

mighty like "Lady Neville! Lady Neville! Lady Neville!" Kate spend a

restless night, and wake with a bad headache.



she send she maid to excuse she, on this score, from go to Bolton

Hall. but she be inform in reply that the carriage have be get

ready expressly for she; so she must be good enough to shake off

disease and go: the air would do she a deal more good than lie abe.



thereupon she dress herself in her black silk gown, and come down,

look pale and languid, but still quite lovely enough to discharge

what in this age of cannot I suppose we should call "her Mission;"

_videlicet_, to set honest man by the ear.



at half-past eight o'clock the carriage come round to the front door.

its body, all glorious with the Peyton armorial, and with patch of

rusty gilding, swing exceedingly loose on long leathern strap instead

of spring, and the fore-wheel be a mile from the hind-wheel; more

or less. a pretentious and horrible engine; draw by four horse; only,

two of they be pony impair the symmetry and majestic beauty of

the pageant. Old Joe drive the wheeler; his boy ride the leader;

and every now and then get oft and kick they in the pit of their

stomach, or pierce they with hedge-stake, to rouse their mettle.

thus encourage and stimulate, they effect an average of four mile

and a half per hour, notwithstanding the snow, and reach Bolton just

in time. at the lodge, Francis get out, and lie in ambush. but only

for a time. he do not think it orthodox to be present at a religious

ceremony of his protestant friend: nor common-sense-o-dox to turn his

back upon their dinner.



the carriage draw up at the hall door. it be wide open, and the hall

line with servant, male and female, in black. in the midst, between

these two row, stand Griffith Gaunt, bareheade, to welcome the

guest. his arm be in a sling. he have receive all the other in the

middle of the hall; but he come to the threshold to meet Kate and her

father. he bow low and respectfully; then give his left hand to Kate

to conduct she after the formal fashion of the day. the sight of his

arm in a sling startle and affect she; and with he give she his

hand almost at the same moment, she press it, or indeed squeeze it

nervously, and it be in her heart to say something kind and womanly:

but her father be close behind, and she be afraid of say something

too kind, if she say anything at all; so Griffith only get a little

gentle nervous pinch. but that be more than he expect, and send a

thrill of delight through he; his brown eye reply with a volume,

and hold her hand up in the air, as high as her ear, and keep at

an incredible distance, he lead she solemnly to a room where the other

lady be, and leave she there with a profound bow.



the Peytons be nearly the last person expect; and soon after their

arrival the funeral procession form. this part be entirely arrange

by the undertaker. the monstrous custom of forbid lady to follow

their dead have not yet occur even to the idiot of the nation; and

Mr. Peyton and his daughter be place in the second carriage. the

first contain Griffith Gaunt alone, as head mourner. but the peyton

be not alone; no other relation of the deceased being present, the

undertaker put Mr. Neville with the Peytons, because he be heir to a

baronetcy.



Kate be much startled, and astonish to see he come out into the

hall. but, when he enter the carriage, she welcome he warmly. "oh,

I be so glad to see you here," say she.



"guess by that what my delight at meet you must be," say he.



she blush and turn it off. "I mean, that your come here give

I good hope there will be no more mischief." she then lower she

voice, and beg he on no account to tell her father of her ride to

Scutchemsee Nob.



"not a word," say George. he know the advantage of share a secret

with a fair lady. he proceed to whisper something very warm in her

ear: she listen to some of it; but then remonstrate, and say, "be

you not ashamed to go on so at a funeral? oh, do pray leave compliment

a moment, and think of your latter end."



he take this suggestion, as indeed he do everything from she, in good

part; and compose his visage into a decent gravity.



soon after this they reach the church, and bury the deceased in his

family vault.





People, who be not bereave by the death, be always inclined to

chatter come home from a funeral. Kate now talk to Neville of her

own accord, and ask he if he have speak to his host. he say "yes;"

and, more than that, have come to a clear understanding with he. "we

agree that it be no use fight for you. I say if either of we two

be to kill the other, it do not follow you would wed the survivor."



"I wed the wretch!" say Kate. "I should abhor he, and go into a

convent in spite of you all, and end my day pray for the murder

man's soul."



"neither of we be worth all that," suggest Neville, with an accent of

conviction.



"that be certain," reply the lady, drily; "so please not to do it."



he bid she set her mind at ease: they have both agree to try and win

she by peaceful art.



"then a pretty life mine will be."



"well, I think it will, till you decide."



"I could easily decide, if it be not for give pain to--somebody."



"oh, you cann't help that. my sweet mistress, you be not the first that

have have to choose between two worthy man. for, in sooth, I have nothing

to say against my rival neither. I know he well than I do: he be a

very worthy gentleman though he be damnably in my way."



"and you be a very noble one to say so."



"and you be one of those that make a man noble: I feel that petty art

be not the way to win you, and I scorn they. sweet Mistress Kate, I

adore you. you be the good and noblest, as well as the lovely of

woman."



"oh, hush! Mr. Neville, I be a creature of clay; and you be another;

and both of we come home from a funeral. do think of _that._"



here they be interrupt by Mr. Peyton ask Kate to lend he a

shilling for the groom. Kate reply aloud that she have leave she

purse at home, then whisper in his ear that she have not a shilling

in the world: and this be strictly true; for her little all be Tom

Leicester's now. with this they reach the Hall, and the coy Kate give

both Neville and Gaunt the slip, and get amongst her mate. there her

tongue go as fast as her neighbor', though she have just come back

from a funeral.



but soon the lady and gentleman be all invite to the reading of

the will.



and now chance, which have hitherto befriend Neville by throw he

into one carriage with Kate, give Gaunt a turn. he find she a moment

alone and near the embrasure of a window. he seize the opportunity and

ask she might he say a word in her ear. "what a question!" say she,

gaily; and the next moment they have the embrasure to themselves.



"Kate," say he, hurriedly, "in a few minute, I suppose, I shall be

master of this place. now you tell I once you would rather be an

abbess or a nun than marry I."



"do I?" say Kate. "what a sensible speech! but the bad of it be I'm

never in the same mind long."



"well," reply Griffith, "I think of all that fall from your lip;

and your will be mine; only for pity's sake do not wed any man but I.

you have know I so long; why, you know the bad of I by this time:

and you have only see the outside of _he._"



"Detraction! be that what you want to say to I?" ask Kate,

freeze suddenly.



"Nay, nay; it be about the abbey. I find you can be an abbess without

go and shut yourself up and break one's heart. the way be,

you build a convent in Ireland, and endow it; and then you send a nun

over to govern it under you. bless your heart, you can do anything with

money; and I shall have money enough before the day be over. to be sure

I _do_ intend to build a kennel and keep harrier; and you know that

cost a good penny: but we couldn't manage a kennel and an abbey too:

so now down go the english kennel and up go the irish abbey."



"but you be a protestant gentleman. you could not find a nunnery."



"but my wife could. whose business be it what she do with her money?"



"with your money, you mean."



"Nay with her, when I give it she with all my heart."



"well, you astonish I," say Kate, thoughtfully. "tell I, now, who

put it into your head to bribe a poor girl in this abominable way?"



"who put it into my head?" say Griffith, looking rather puzzle: "why

I suppose my heart put it into my head."



Kate smile very sweetly at this answer, and a wild hope thrill

through Griffith that perhaps she might be bring to term.



but at this crisis the lawyer from London be announce, and Griffith,

as master of the house, be oblige to seat the company. he look

bitterly disappointed at the interruption, but put a good face on it,

and have more chair in, and see they all seat, begin with Kate

and the other lady.



the room be spacious, and the entire company sit in the form of a

horse-shoe.



the London solicitor be introduce by Griffith and bow in a short,

business-like way; seat himself in the horse-shoe aforesaid, and

begin to read the will aloud.



it be a lengthy document, and there be nothing to be gain by

repeat every line of it. I pick out a clause here and there.





"I, Septimus Charlton, of Hernshaw Castle and Holton Grange, in

the county of Cumberland, Esquire, be of sound mind, memory,

and understanding--thank be to God--do make this my last will and

testament as follows:--First I commit my soul to God who give it, and

my body to the earth from which it come. I desire my executor to

discharge my funeral and testamentary expense, my just debt, and the

legacy hereinafter bequeath, out of my personal estate."





then follow several legacy of fifty and one hundred guineas. then

several small legacy; such as the following:



"to my friend Edward Peyton, of Peyton Hall, Esq., ten guineas to buy a

mourning ring.



"to the worshipful gentleman and lady who shall follow my body to the

grave, ten guineas each, to buy a mourning ring."





"to my wife's cousin, Griffith Gaunt, I give and bequeath the sum of

two thousand pound, the same to be pay to he within one calendar

month from the date of my decease.



"and as to all my messuage, or tenement, farm, land, hereditament,

and real estate, of what nature or what kind soever, and wheresoever

situate, together with all my monie, mortgage, chattel, furniture,

plate, picture, wine, liquor, horse, carnage, stock, and all

the rest, residue, and remainder of my personal estate and effect

whatsoever (after the payment of the debt and legacy hereinbefore

mention), I give, devise, and bequeath the same to my cousin,

Catherine Peyton, daughter of Edward Peyton, Esq., of Peyton Hall, in

the county of Cumberland, her heir, executor, administrator, and

assign for ever."





when the lawyer read out this unexpected blow, the whole company

turn in their seat and look amazed at she, who, in a second and

a sentence, be turn before their eye from the poor girl in

Cumberland to an heiress in her own right, and proprietor of the house

they sit in, the chair they sit on, and the lawn they look out at.



ay, we turn to the rise sun: very few look at Griffith Gaunt to see

how he take his mistress's good fortune, that be his calamity: yet his

face be a book full of strange matter. at first a flash of love joy

cross his countenance; but this give way immediately to a haggard

look, and that to a glare of despair.



as for the lady, she cast one deprecating glance, swifter than

lightning, at he she have disinherit; and then she turn her face

to marble. in vain do curious look explore she to detect the delight

such a stroke of fortune would have give to themselves. Faulty, but

great of soul, and on her guard against the pierce eye of her own

sex, she sit sedate, and receive her change of fortune with every

appearance of cool composure and exalted indifference: and, as for her

dreamy eye, they seem think of Heaven or something almost as many

mile away from money and land.



but the lawyer have not stop a moment to see how people take it,

he have go steadily on through the usual formal clause: and now he

bring his monotonous voice to an end, and add in the same breath,

but in a natural and cheerful tone, "Madam, I wish you joy."



this operate like a signal: the company explode in a body; and then

they all come about the heiress, and congratulate she in turn. she

curtsy politely though somewhat coldly, but say not a word in reply,

till the disappoint one speak to she.



he hang back at first: to understand his feeling it must be remember

that in this view of thing Kate gain nothing by this bequest

compare with what he lose. as his wife, she would have be mistress

of Bolton Hall, etc. but now she be place too far above he. sick

at heart, he stand aloof while they all pay their court to she. but,

by-and-by, he feel it would look base and hostile if he alone say

nothing; so he come forward, struggle visibly for composure and manly

fortitude.



the situation be piquant, and the lady tongue stop in a moment,

and they be all eye and ear.









CHAPTER IX





Griffith, with an effort he have not the skill to hide, stammer out,

"Mistress Kate, I do wish you joy." then with sudden and touching

earnestness, "never do good fortune light on one so worthy of it."



"thank you, Griffith," reply Kate, softly. (she have call he 'Mr.

Gaunt' in public till now.) "but money and land do not always bring

content. I think I be happy a minute ago than I feel now," say she,

quietly.



the blood rush into Griffith's face at this; for a minute ago might

mean when he and she be talk almost like lover about to wed. he

be so overcome by this, he turn on his heel, and retreat hastily

to hide his emotion, and regain, if possible, composure to play his

part of host in the house that be his no long.



Kate herself soon after retire, nominally to make her toilet before

dinner; but really to escape the public; and think it all over.



the news of her advancement have spread like wildfire: she be waylay

at the very door by the housekeeper, who insist on show she her

house. "Nay, never mind the house," say Kate: "just show I one room

where I can wash my face and do my hair."



Mrs. Hill conduct she to the good bedroom: it be line with

tapestry, and all the color fly; the curtain be a deadish yellow.



"Lud! here's a colored room to show _I_ into," say the blonde Kate:

"and a black grate, too. why not take I out o' door and bid I wash

in the snow?"



"alack, mistress," say the woman, feel very uneasy, "we have no

order from Mr. Gaunt to light fire _up_ stair."



"oh, if you wait for gentleman's order to make your house fit to live

in! you know there be a dozen lady come, yet you be not woman

enough to light they fire. come, take I to your own bedroom."



the woman turn red: "mine be but a small room, my lady," she

stammer.



"but there's a fire in it," say Kate, spitefully. "you servant don't

wait for gentleman's order, to take care of yourself."



Mrs. Hill say to herself, "I'm to leave; that be flat." however, she

lead the way down a passage, and open the door of a pleasant little

room in a square turret: a large bay window occupy one whole side of

the room, and make it inexpressibly bright and cheerful, though rather

hot and stuffy; a clear coal fire burn in the grate.



"ah!" say Kate, "how nice. please open those little window every one.

I suppose you have swear never to let wholesome air into a room. thank

you: now go and forget every cross word I have say to you--I be out of

sort, and nervous, and irritable. there, run away, my good soul, and

light fire in every room; and don't you let a creature come near I,

or you and I shall quarrel downright."



Mrs. Hill beat a hasty retreat. Kate lock the door and throw herself

backwards on the bed, with such a weary recklessness and abandon, as

if she be throw herself into the sea, to end all her trouble--and

burst out cry.



it be one thing to refuse to marry her old sweetheart; it be another

to take his property and reduce he to poverty. but here be she

do both, and go to be persuade to marry Neville, and swell his

wealth with the very possession she have take from Griffith; and he

wound into the bargain for love of she. it be really too cruel.

it be an accumulation of different cruelty. her bosom revolt:

she be agitated, perplexed, irritated, unhappy, and all in a tumult:

and, although she have but one fit of crying,--to the naked eye,--yet a

person of her own sex would have see that at one moment she be cry

from agitated nerve, at another from worry, and at the next from pity,

and then from grief.



in short she have a good long, hearty, multi-form cry; and it relieve

her swell heart so far, that she feel able to go down now, and

hide her feeling, one and all, from friend and foe; to do which be,

unfortunately, a part of her nature.



she rise and plunge her face into cold water, and then smooth her

hair.



now, as she stand at the glass, two familiar voice come in through the

open window, and arrest her attention directly. it be her father

converse with Griffith Gaunt. Kate prick up her quick ear and

listen, with her back hair in her hand. she catch the subject of

their talk, only now and then she miss a word or two.



Mr. Peyton be speak rather kindly to Griffith, and tell he

he be as sorry for his disappointment as any father could be whose

daughter have just come into a fortune. but then he go on and rather

spoil this by ask Griffith bluntly what on earth have ever make he

think Mr. Charlton intend to leave he Bolton and Hernshaw.



Griffith reply, with manifest agitation, that Mr. Charlton have

repeatedly tell he he be to be his heir. "not," say Griffith, "that

he mean to wrong Mistress Kate, neither: poor old man, he always

think she and I should be one."



"ah! well," say Squire Peyton, coolly, "there be an end of all that

now."



at this observation Kate glide to the window, and lay her cheek on

the sill to listen more closely.



but Griffith make no reply.



Mr. Peyton seem dissatisfied at his silence, and be a person who,

notwithstanding a certain superficial good-nature, see his own side of

a question very big, and his neighbor's very little, he be hard than

perhaps he intend to be.



"why, Master Gaunt," say he, "surely you would not follow my daughter

now; to feed upon a woman's bread. come, be a man; and, if you be the

girl's friend, don't stand in her light. you know she can wed your

better, and clap Bolton Hall on to Neville's Court. no doubt it be a

disappointment to _you_: but what cann't be cure must be endure; pluck

up a bit of courage, and turn your heart another way; and then I shall

always be a good friend to you, and my door open to you come when you

will."



Griffith make no reply. Kate strain her ear, but could not hear a

syllable. a tremor run through she. she be in distance far from

Griffith than her father be; but superior intelligence provide she

with a bridge from her window to her old servant's mind. and now she

feel that this great silence be the silence of despair.



but the squire press he for a definite answer; and finally insist

on one. "come, don't be sulky," say he; "I'm her father: give I an

answer, ay or no."



then Kate hear a violent sigh, and out rush a torrent of word that

each seem tinge with blood from the unfortunate speaker's heart.

"old man," he almost shriek, "what do I ever do to you that you

torment I so? sure you be bear without bowel. Beggared but an hour

agone, and now you must come and tell I I have lose _she_ by lose

house and land! D'ye think I need to be _tell_ it? she be too far

above I before, and now she be go quite out of my reach. but why

come and fle it in my face? cann't you give a poor undone man one hour

to draw his breath in trouble? and, when you know I have get to play

the host this bitter day, and smile, and smirk, and make you all merry,

with my heart breaking. oh Christ, look down and pity I, for man be

make of stone! well, then, no; I will not, I cannot, say the word, to

give she up. _she_ will discharge _I_, and then I'll fly the country,

and never trouble you more. and to think that one little hour ago she

be so kind, and I be so happy: ah, sir, if you be bear of a woman,

have a little pity, and don't speak to I of she at all one way or

other. what be you afraid of? I be a gentleman and a man, though sore

my trouble: I shall not run after the lady of Bolton Hall. why, sir, I

have order the servant to set her chair in the middle of the table,

where I shall not be able to speak to she, or even see she. indeed I

dare not look at she: for I must be merry. Merry! my arm it worry I,

my head it ache, my heart be sick to death. man! man! show I some

little grace, and do not torture I more than flesh and blood can bear."



"you be mad, young sir," say the Squire, sternly, "and want lock

up on bread and water for a month."



"I _be_ almost mad," say Griffith, humbly. "but if you would only let

I alone, and not tear my heart out of my body, I could hide my agony

from the whole pack of ye, and go through my part like a man. I wish I

be lie where I lay my only friend this afternoon."



"oh! I don't want to speak to you," say Peyton, angrily; "and, by the

same token, don't you speak to my daughter any more."



"well, sir, if she speak to I I shall be sure to speak to she,

without ask your leave or any man's. but I will not force myself

upon the lady of Bolton Hall; don't you think it. only for God's sake

let I alone. I want to be by myself." and, with this, he hurry away,

unable to bear it any more.



Peyton give a hostile and contemptuous snort, and also turn on his

heel, and go off in the opposite direction. the effect of this

dialogue on the listener be not to melt, but exasperate she. perhaps

she have just cry away her stock of tenderness. at any rate, she rise

from her ambush a very basilisk; her eye, usually so languid, flash

fire, and her forehead be red with indignation. she bite her lip, and

clench her hand, and her little foot beat the ground swiftly.



she be still in this state when a timid tap come to the door, and

Mrs. Hill ask her pardon, but dinner be ready, and the lady and

gentleman all a waiting for she to sit down.



this remind Kate she be the mistress of the house. she answer

civilly she would be down immediately. she then take a last look in the

glass; and her own face startle she.



"no," she think; "they shall none of they know nor guess what I

feel." and she stand before the glass and deliberately extract all

emotion from her countenance, and by way of preparation screw on a

spiteful smile.



when she have get her face to her mind, she go down stair.



the gentleman await she with impatience, the lady with curiosity,

to see how she would comport herself in her new situation. she enter,

make a formal curtsy, and be conduct to her seat by Mr. Gaunt. he

place she in the middle of the table. "I play the host for this one

day," say he, with some dignity; and take the bottom of the table

himself.



Mr. Hammersley be to have sit on Kate's left, but the sly Neville

persuade he to change, and so get next to his inamorata: opposite to

she sit her father, Major Rickards, and other unknown to fame.



Neville be in high spirit. he have the good taste to try and hide his

satisfaction at the fatal blow his rival have receive, and he entirely

avoid the topic; but Kate see at once, by his demure complacency,

he be delighted at the turn thing have take; and he gain nothing

by it: he find she a change girl. cold monosyllable be all he

could extract from she. he return to the charge a hundred time with

indomitable gallantry, but it be no use. cold, haughty, sullen!



her other neighbor fare little well; and in short the lady of the

house make a vile impression. she be an iceberg: a beautiful kill-joy:

a wet blanket of charming texture.



and presently Nature begin to co-operate with she: long before sunset

it grow prodigiously dark; and the cause be soon reveal by a fall of

snow in flake as large as a biscuit. a shiver run through the people;

and old Peyton blurt out, "I shall not go home to-night." then he

bawl across the table to his daughter: "_you_ be at home. we will

stay and take possession."



"oh, papa!" say Kate, redden with disgust.



but if dulness reign around the lady of the house, it be not so

everywhere: loud burst of merriment be hear at the bottom of

the table. Kate glance that way in some surprise, and find it be

Griffith make the company merry; Griffith of all people.



the laughter break out at short interval, and by-and-by became

uproarious and constant. at last she look at Neville inquiringly.



"our worthy host be set we an example of conviviality," say he.

"he be get drunk."



"oh, I hope not," say Kate. "have he no friend to tell he not to make

a fool of himself?"



"you take a great interest in he," say Neville, bitterly.



"of course I do. pray do you desert your friend when ill luck fall on

they?"



"Nay, Mistress Kate, I hope not."



"you only triumph over the misfortune of your enemy, eh?" say the

stinging beauty.



"not even that. and, as for Mr. Gaunt, I be not his enemy."



"oh no, of course not. you be his good friend. witness his arm at this

moment."



"I be his rival; but not his enemy: I'll give you a proof." then he

lower his voice, and say in her ear: "you be grieve at his losing

Bolton; and, as you be very generous, and noble-minded, you be all

the more grieved because his loss be your gain." (Kate blush at this

shrewd hit.) Neville go on: "you don't like he well enough to marry

he; and, since you cannot make he happy, it hurt your good heart to

make he poor."



"it be you for read a lady's heart," say Kate, ironically.



George proceed steadily. "I'll show you an easy way out of this

dilemma."



"thank you," say Kate, rather insolently.



"give Mr. Gaunt Bolton and Hernshaw, and give I--your hand."



Kate turn and look at he with surprise: she see by his eye it be

no jest. for all that, she effect to take it as one. "that would be

long and short division," say she: but her voice falter in say it.



"so it would," reply George, coolly; "for Bolton and Hernshaw both

be not worth one finger of that hand I ask of you. but the value of

thing lie in the mind that weigh 'em. Mr. Gaunt, you see, value

Bolton and Hernshaw very highly; why, he be in despair at lose they.

look at he; he be getting rid of his reason before your very eye, to

drown his disappointment."



"oh, that be it, be it?" and, strange to say, she look rather

relieve.



"that be it, believe I: it be a way we man have. but, as I be say,

I don't care one straw for Bolton and Hernshaw. it be you I love; not

your land nor your house, but your sweet self: so give I that, and let

the lawyer make over this famous house and land to Mr. Gaunt. his

antagonist I have be in the field, and his rival I be and must be,

but not his enemy, you see, and not his ill-wisher."



Kate be soften a little. "this be all mighty romantic," say she,

"and very like a prolix chevalier, as you be; but you know very well

he would fling land and house in your face if you offer they he on

these term."



"ay, in my face if I offer they; but not in yours if you."



"I be sure he would, all the same."



"try he."



"what be the use?"



"try he."



Kate show symptom of uneasiness. "well, I will," say she, stoutly.

"no, that I will not. you begin by bribe I; and then you would set

I to bribe he."



"it be the only way to make two honest man happy."



"if I think that?"



"you know it. try he."



"and suppose he say nay?"



"then we shall be no bad than we be."



"and suppose he say ay?"



"then he will wed Bolton Hall and Hernshaw; and the pearl of England

will wed I."



"I have a great mind to take you at your word," say Kate; "but no; it

be really too indelicate."



George Neville fix his eye on she. "be you not deceive yourself?"

say he. "do you not like Mr. Gaunt well than you think? I begin to

fear you dare not put he to this test: you fear his love would not

stand it?"



Kate color high, and toss her head proudly.



"how shrewd you gentleman be," she say. "much you know of a lady's

heart. now the truth be I don't know what might happen be I to do

what you bid I. Nay, I'm wise than you would have I, and I'll pity

Mr. Gaunt at a safe distance, if you please, sir."



Neville bow gravely: he feel sure this be a plausible evasion; and

that she really be afraid to apply his test to his rival's love.



so now for the first time he become silent and reserve by her side.

the change be notice by Father Francis, and he fix a grave

remonstrate glance on Kate. she receive it, understand it, affect

not to notice it, and act upon it.



drive a donkey too hard; it kick.



drive a man too hard; it hit.



drive a woman too hard; it cajole.



now amongst they they have drive Kate Peyton too hard; so she secretly

form a bold resolution; and, this do, her whole manner change for

the well. she turn to Neville, and flatter and fascinate he.

the most feline of her sex could scarcely equal her calinerie on this

occasion. but she do not confine her fascination to he. she break

out, pro bono publico, like the sun in April, with quip and crank

and dimpled smile, and make everybody near she quite forget her late

hauteur and coldness, and bask in this sunny sweet hostess. when the

charm be at its height, the Siren cast a seeming merry glance at

Griffith, and say to a lady opposite, "methink some of the gentleman

will be glad to be rid of we," and so carry the lady off to the

drawing-room.



there, her first act be to dismiss her smile without ceremony, and

her second be to sit down and write four line to the gentleman at the

head of the dining-table.



and he be as drunk as a fiddler.









CHAPTER X





Griffith's friend laugh heartily with he while he be get

drunk, and, when he have get drunk, they laugh still louder, only at

he.



they "knock he down" for a song; and he sing a rather anacreontic

one very melodiously, and so loud that certain of the servant,

listen outside, derive great delectation from it; and Neville

applaud ironically.



soon after, they "knock he down" for a story; and, as it require

more brain to tell a story than, to sing a song, the poor butt make an

ass of himself: he maunder and wander, and stop, and go on,

and lose one thread and take up and another, and get into a perfect

maze. and, while he be thus entangle, a servant come in and bring

he a note, and put it in his hand. the unhappy narrator receive it

with a sapient nod, but be too polite or else too stupid to open it;

so close his finger on it and willnot maunder on till his story

trickle into the sand of the desert, and somehow cease; for it could

not be say to end, be a thing without head or tail.



he sit down amidst derisive cheer. about five minute afterwards,

in some intermittent flash of reason, he find he have get hold of

something. he open his hand, and lo, a note! on this he chuckle

unreasonably, and distribute sage, cunning, wink around, as if he

by special ingenuity have catch a nightingale, or the like; then with

sudden hauteur and gravity proceed to examine his prize.



but he know the handwriting at once, and it give he a galvanic shock

that half sober he for the moment.



he open the note and spell it with great difficulty; it be

beautifully write in long, clear letter; but then those letter keep

dance so.



    "I much desire to speak to you before 'tis too late; but can

    think of no way save one; I lie in the turrete room: come

    under my window at nine of the clock; and prithee come sober,

    if you respect yourself, or



                                                          kate."



Griffith put the note in his pocket, and try to think. but he could

not think to much purpose. then this make he suspect he be drunk.

then he try to be sober; but he find he could not. he sit in a sort

of stupid agony, with Love and drink battle for his brain. it be

piteous to see the poor fool's struggle to regain the reason he have so

madly part with. he could not do it; and, when he find that, he take

up a finger-glass and gravely pour the content upon his head.



at this there be a burst of laughter.



this irritated Mr. Gaunt, and, with that rapid change of sentiment

which mark the sober savage and, the drunken European, he offer to

fight a gentleman he have be hitherto hold up to the company as

his good friend. but his good friend (a very distant acquaintance) be

by this time as tipsy as himself, and offer a piteous disclaimer,

mingle with tear; and these maudlin drop so affect Griffith that

he fling his one available arm round his good friend's head, and

weep in turn; and down go both their lachrymose, empty noddle on

the table. Griffith's remain there; but his good friend extricate

himself, and, shake his skull, say, dolefully, "he be very drunk."

this notable discovery, come from such a quarter, cause considerable

merriment.



"let he alone," say an old toper; and Griffith remain a good hour

with his head on the table. meantime the other gentleman soon put it

out of their power to ridicule he on the score of intoxication.



Griffith, keep quiet, get a little well, and suddenly start up

with a notion he be to go to Kate this very moment. he mutter an

excuse, and stagger to a glass door that lead to the lawn; he open

this door, and rush out into the open air. he think it would set

he all right: but, instead of that, it make he so much bad that

presently his leg come to a misunderstanding, and he measure his

length on the ground, and could not get up again, but keep slip

down.



upon this he groan and lie quiet.



now there be a foot of snow on the ground, and it melt about

Griffith's hot temple and flashed face, and mightily refresh and

revive he.



he sit up and kiss Kate's letter, and Love begin to get the upper

hand of Liquor a little.



finally he get up, and half strut, half stagger to the turret, and

stand under Kate's window.



the turret be cover with luxuriant ivy, and that ivy with snow. so

the glass of the window be set in a massive frame of winter; but a

bright fire burn inside the room, and this set the pane all aflame.

it be cheery and glorious to see the window glow like a sheet of

transparent fire in its deep frame of snow; but Griffith could not

appreciate all that. he stand there a sorrowful man. the wine he have

take to drown his despair have lose its stimulate effect, and have

give he a heavy head, but leave he his sick heart.



he stand and puzzle his drowsy faculty why Kate have send for he.

be it to bid he good-bye for ever; or to lessen his misery by

tell he she would not marry another? he soon give up cudgel his

enfeeble brain; Kate be a superior be to he, and often say

thing, and do thing, that surprise he. she have send for he, and

that be enough; he should see she, and speak to she once more, at all

event. he stand, alternately nod and look up at her glowing

room, and longing for its owner to appear. but, as Bacchus have inspire

he to mistake eight o'clock for nine, and as she be not a votary of

Bacchus, she do not appear; and he stand there till he begin to shiver.



the shadow of a female pass along the wall, and Griffith give a great

start. then he hear the fire poke. soon after he see the shadow

again; but it have a large servant's cap on; so his heart have beat

high for Mary or Susan. he hang his head disappoint; and, hold on

by the ivy, fall a nodding again.



by-and-by one of the little casement be open softly. he look up,

and there be the right face peer out.



oh, what a picture she be in the moonlight and the firelight! they

both fight for that fair head, and each get a share of it: the full

moon's silvery beam shine on her rose-like cheek and lilyfield they

a shade, and light her great grey eye and make they gleam astoundingly;

but the ruby firelight rush at she from behind, and flow over her

golden hair, and reddened and glorify it till it seem more than

mortal. and all this in a very picture-frame of snow.



Imagine, then, how sweet and glorious she glow on he who love she,

and who look at she perhaps for the last time.



the sight do wonder to clear his head; he stand open-mouthed, with

his heart beat. she look he all over a moment. "ah!" say

she. then, quietly, "I be so glad you be come." then, kindly and

regretfully, "how pale you look! you be unhappy."



this greeting, so gentle and land, overpower Griffith. his heart be

too full to speak.



Kate wait a moment; and then, as he do not reply to she, she begin

to plead to he. "I hope you be not angry with _I_" she say. "_i_

do not want he to leave I your estate. I would not rob you of they

for the world, if I have my way."



"angry with you!" say Griffith. "I'm not such a villain. Mr. Charlton

do the right thing, and--" he could say no more.



"I do not think so," say Kate. "but don't you fret: all shall be

settle to your satisfaction. I cannot quite love you, but I have a

sincere affection for you; and so I ought. cheer up, dear Griffith;

don't you be down-hearted about what have happen to-day."



Griffith smile. "I don't feel unhappy," he say; "I do feel as if

my heart be break. but then you seem part from I. now we be

together I feel as happy as ever. mistress, don't you ever shut that

window and leave I in the dark again. let I stand and look at your

sweet face all night, and I shall be the happy man in Cumberland."



"ay," say Kate, blush at his ardor; "happy for a single night;

but when I go away you will be in the dump again, and perhaps get

tipsy; as if that could mend matter. Nay, I must set your happiness on

strong leg than that. do you know I have get permission to undo this

cruel will, and let you have Bolton Hall and Hernshaw again?"



Griffith look pleased, but rather puzzle.



Kate go on, but not so glibly now. "however," say she, a little

nervously, "there be one condition to it that will cost we both some

pain. if you consent to accept those two estate from I, who don't

value they one straw, why then--"



she hesitate.



"well, what?" he gasp.



"why, then, my poor Griffith, we shall be bind in honor,--you

and I,--not to meet for some month: perhaps for a whole year:

in one word--do not hate I--not till you can bear to see

I--another--man's--wife."



the murder be out, she hide her face in her hand directly, and in

that attitude await his reply.



Griffith stand petrify a moment; and I don't think his intellect

be even yet quite clear enough to take it all in at once. but at last

he do comprehend it, and, when he do, he just utter a loud cry of

agony, and then turn his back on she without a word.





Man do not speak by word alone. a mute glance of reproach have ere

now pierce the heart a tirade would have leave untouched; and even an

inarticulate cry may utter volume.



such an eloquent cry be that with which Griffith Gaunt turn his back

upon the angelical face he adore, and the soft persuasive tongue.

there be agony, there be shame, there be wrath, all in that one

ejaculation.



it frighten Kate. she call he back. "don't leave I so," she say.

"I know I have affront you; but I mean all for the good. do not let

we part in anger."



at this Griffith return in violent agitation. "it be your fault for

make I speak," he cry "I be go away without a word, as a man

should, that be insult by a woman. you heartless girl! what! you bid

I sell you to that man for two dirty farm! oh, well you know Bolton

and Hernshaw be but the step by which I hope to climb to you:

and now you tell I to part with you, and take those miserable acre

instead of my darling. ah! mistress, you have never love: or you would

hate yourself and despise yourself for what you have do. love! if you

have know what that word mean, you couldn't look in my face and stab

I to the heart like this. God forgive you! and sure I hope he will;

for after all, it be not _your_ fault that you be bear without a

heart. WHY, kate, you be cry."









CHAPTER XI





"Crying!" say Kate. "I could cry my eye out to think what I have

do; but it be not my fault: they egg I on. I know you would fling

those two miserable thing in my face if I do, and I say so; but they

would be wise than I, and insist on my put you to the proof."



"they? who be they?"



"no matter. whoever it be they will gain nothing by it, and you will

lose nothing. ah, Griffith, I be so ashamed of myself--and so proud of

you."



"they?" repeat Griffith, suspiciously. "who be this they?"



"what do that matter, so long as it be not I? be you go to

be jealous again? let we talk of you and I, and never mind who they

be. you have reject my proposal with just scorn; so now let I hear

your; for we must agree on something this very night. tell I, now,

what can I say or do to make you happy?"



Griffith be sore puzzle. "alas! sweet Kate," say he, "I don't know

what you can do for I now, except stay single for my sake."



"I should like nothing well," reply Kate, warmly; "but

unfortunately they willn't let I do that. Father Francis will be at I

to-morrow, and insist on my marry Mr. Neville."



"but you will refuse."



"I would, if I could but find a good excuse."



"Excuse? why, say you don't love he."



"oh, they willn't allow that for a reason."



"then I be undo," sigh Griffith.



"no, no, you be not; if I could be bring to pretend I love somebody

else. and really, if I don't quite love you, I like you too well to

let you be unhappy. besides, I cannot bear to rob you of these unlucky

farm: I think there be nothing I would not do rather than that. I

think--I would rather--do--something very silly indeed. but I suppose

you don't want I to do that now? why don't you answer I? why don't

you say something? be you drunk, sir, as they pretend? or be you

asleep? oh, I cann't speak any plainer: this be intolerable. Mr. Gaunt,

I'm go to shut the window."



Griffith get alarm, and it sharpen his wit. "Kate, Kate!" he

cry, "what do you mean? be I in a dream? would you marry poor I

after all?"



"how on earth can I tell, till I be ask?" inquire Kate, with an air

of childlike innocence, and inspect the star attentively.



"Kate, will you marry I?" say Griffith, all in a flutter.



"of course I will--if you will let I," reply Kate, coolly, but

rather tenderly, too.



Griffith burst into rapture; Kate listen to they with a complacent

smile; then deliver herself after this fashion:--"You have very

little to thank I for, dear Griffith. I don't exactly downright love

you; but I could not rob you of those unlucky farm, and you refuse to

take they back, any way but this; so what can I do? and then, for all

I don't love you, I find I be always unhappy if you be unhappy, and

happy when you be happy; so it come pretty much to the same thing. I

declare I be sick of give you pain, and a little sick of cry in

consequence. there, I have cry more in the last fortnight than in all

my life before, and you know nothing spoil one's beauty like cry:

and then you be so good, and kind, and true, and brave; and everybody

be so unjust, and so unkind to you; papa and all. you be quite in

the right about the duel, dear; he be an impudent puppy; and I throw

dust in your eye, and make you own you be in the wrong; and it be

a great shame of I; but it be because I like you well. I could take

liberty with _you_, dear. and you be wound for I; and now I have

disinherit you; oh, I cann't bear it, and I willn't. my heart yearn for

you; bleed for you. I would rather die than you should be unhappy; I

would rather follow you in rag round the world than marry a prince and

make you wretched. yes, dear, I be yours. make I your wife; and then

some day I daresay I shall love you as I ought."



she have never show her heart to he like this before; and now it

overpower he. so, be also a little under vinous influence, he

stammer out something, and then fairly blubber with joy. then what

do Kate do, but cry for company.



presently, to her surprise, he be half way up the turret, come to

she.



"oh, take care! take care!" she cry. "you'll break your neck."



"Nay," cry he, "I must come at you, if I die for it."



the turret be ornament from top to bottom with short ledge

consist of half brick. this ledge, shallow as it be, give a slight

foothold, insufficient in itself, but he grasp the strong branch of

the ivy with a powerful hand; and so between the two contrive to get

up and hang himself out close to she.



"sweet mistress," say he, "put out your hand to I; for I cann't take

it against your will this time; I have get but one arm."



but this she decline. "no, no," say she; "you do nothing but torment

and terrify me,--there." and so, give it he; and he mumble it.



this last feat win she quite. she think no other man could have get

to she there, with two arm, and Griffith have do it with one. she

say to herself, "how he love I! more than his own neck." and then

she think. "I shall be wife to a strong man; that be one comfort."



in this soften mood she ask he demurely, would he take a friend's

advice.



"if that friend be you, ay.'



"then," say she, "I'll do a downright brazen thing, now my hand be

in. I declare I'll tell you how to secure I. you make I plight my

troth with you this minute, and exchange ring with you, _whether I

like or not_; engage my honor in this foolish business, and, if you

do that, I really do think you will have I in spite of they all. but

there--la!--am I worth all this trouble?"



Griffith do not share this chilling doubt. he pour forth his

gratitude, and then tell she he have get his mother's ring on his

finger; "I mean to ask you to wear it," say he.



"and why don't you?"



"because you become an heiress all of a sudden."



"well, what signify which of we have the dross, so that there be

enough for both?"



"that be true," say Griffith, approve his own sentiment, but not

recognize his own word. "here's my mother's ring, on my little

finger, sweet mistress. but I must ask you to draw it off, for I have

but one hand."



Kate make a wry face. "well, that be my fault," say she, "or I would

not take it from you so."



she draw off his ring, and put it on her finger. then she give he her

large ring, and have to put it on his little finger for he.



"you be make a very forward girl of I," say she, pouting

exquisitely.



he kiss her hand while she be do it.



"don't you be so silly," say she; "and, you horrid creature, how you

smell of wine! the bullet, please."



"the bullet!" exclaim Griffith. "what bullet?"



"_the_ bullet. the one you be wound with for my sake. I be tell you

put it in your pocket; and I see something bulge in your waistcoat;

that bullet belong to I now."



"I think you be a witch," say he. "I do carry it about next my heart.

take it out of my waistcoat, if you will be so good."



she blush, and decline, and with the refusal on her very lip,

fish it out with her taper finger. she eye it with a sort of tender

horror. the sight of it make she feel faint a moment. she tell he so:

and that she would keep it to her die day. presently her delicate

finger find something be write on it; she do not ask he what it

be, but withdraw, and examine it by her candle. Griffith have engrave

it with these word:



                      "I love kate."



he look through the window, and see she examine it by the candle. as

she read the inscription, her face, glorify by the light, assume a

celestial tenderness he have never see it wear before.



she come back and lean eloquently out as if she would fly to he.



"ah, Griffith! Griffith!" she murmur; and, somehow or other, their

lip meet in spite of all the difficulty, and grow together in a long

and tender embrace.



it be the first time she have ever give he more than her hand to

kiss; and the rapture repay he for all.



but, as soon as she have make this great advance, virginal instinct

suggest a proportionate retreat.



"you must go to bed," she say, austerely; "you will catch your death

of cold out here."



he remonstrate: she insist. he hold out: she smile sweetly in

his face, and shut the window in it pretty sharply, and disappear.

he go disconsolately down his ivy ladder. as soon as he be at the

bottom, she open the window again, and ask he, demurely, if he

would do something to oblige she.



he reply like a lover; he be ready to be cut in piece, draw

asunder with wild horse, and so on.



"oh, I know you would do anything stupid for I," say she; "but will

you do something clever for a poor girl that be in a fright at what she

be go to do for you?"



"give your order, mistress," say Griffith; "and don't talk of I

oblige you. I feel quite ashamed to hear you talk so: to-night

especially."



"well, then," say Kate, "first and foremost, I want you to throw

yourself on Father Francis's neck."



"I'll throw myself on Father Francis's neck," say Griffith, stoutly.

"be that all?"



"no; nor half. once upon his neck you must say something. there--I have

well settle the very word, or perhaps you will make a mess of it.

say after I now: oh, Father Francis, 'tis to you I owe she."



"oh, Father Francis, 'tis to you I owe she."



"you and I be friend for life."



"you and I be friend for life."



"and mind, there be always a bed in our home for you, and a plate at

our table, and a right welcome, come when you will."



Griffith repeat this last correctly; but, when request to say the

whole, break down. Kate have to repeat the oration a dozen time; and he

say it after she, like a Sunday-school scholar, till he have it pat.



the task achieve, he inquire of she what Father Francis be to say in

reply.



at this question Kate show considerable alarm.



"Gracious Heavens!" she cry; "you must not stop talk to he; he

will turn you inside out, and I shall be undo. Nay, you must gabble

those word out, and then run away as hard as you can gallop."



"but be it true?" ask Griffith: "be he so much my friend?"



"Hum!" say Kate; "it be quite true; and he be not at all your friend.

there, don't you puzzle yourself, and pester I; but do as you be bid,

or we be both undo."



quell by a menace so mysterious, Griffith promise blind obedience;

and Kate thank he and bid he good-night; and order he

peremptorily to bed.



he go.



she beckon he back.



he come.



she lean out, and inquire, in a soft delicious whisper, as follow:

"be you happy, dearest?"



"ay, Kate, the happy of the happy."



"then so be I," she murmur.



and now she slowly close the window, and gradually retire from the

eye of her enraptured lover.









CHAPTER XII





but while Griffith be thus sweetly employ, his neglect guest

be disperse, not without satirical comment on their truant host.

two or three, however, remain, and sleep in the house, upon special

invitation. and that invitation come from Squire Peyton. he choose to

conclude that Griffith, disappoint by the will, have vacate the

premise in disgust, and have leave he in charge of they: accordingly

he assume the master with alacrity, and order bed for Neville,

and Father Francis, and Major Rickards, and another. the weather be

inclement, and the road heavy; so the gentleman thus distinguish

accept Mr. Peyton's offer cordially.



there be a great many thing sing and say at the festive board in

the course of the evening; but very few of they would amuse or interest

the reader, as they do the hearer. one thing, however, must not be

pass by, as it have its consequence: Major Rickards drink bumper

apiece to the King, the Prince, Church and State, the Army, the

Navy, and Kate Peyton. by the time he get to she, two-third of his

discretion have ooze away in loyalty, _esprit du corps_, and port wine;

so he sing the young lady's praise in vinous term, and of course

immortalize the very exploit she most desire to consign to oblivion:

_arma viraginemque canebat._ he sing the duel: and in a style which I

could not, consistently with the interest of literature, reproduce on

a large scale. hasten we to the conclude versicle of his song.



"so then, sir, we place our man for the third time, and you may

take my word for it, one or both of these hero would have bite the

dust at that discharge; but, by Jove, sir, just as they be go

to pull trigger, in gallop your adorable daughter, and swoon off

her foam horse in the middle of we. disarm we, sir, in a moment,

melt our valor, bewitch our sense; and the great God of War have to

retreat before little Cupid, and the charm of beauty in distress."



"little idiot!" observe the tender parent; and be much distempered.



he say no more about it to major rickard; but, when they all retire

for the night, he undertake to show Father Francis his room, and sit in

it with he a good half-hour talk about Kate.



"here's a pretty scandal!" say he: "I must marry the silly girl out of

hand, before this get wind; and you must help I."



in a word, the result of the conference be, that Kate should be

publicly engage to Neville to-morrow and marry to he as soon as she

month's mourning should be over.



the conduct of the affair be confide to Father Francis, as have

unbounded influence with she.









CHAPTER XIII





next morning Mr. Peyton be up betime in his character of Host, and

order the servant about, and be in high spirit; only they give

place to amazement when Griffith Gaunt come down, and play the Host;

and be in high spirit.



Neville too watch his rival, and be puzzle at his radiancy.



so breakfast pass in general mystification. Kate, who could have

throw a light, do not come down to breakfast. she be on her defense.



she make her first appearance out of door.



very early in the morning, Mr. Peyton, in his quality of master, have

order the gardener to cut and sweep the snow off the gravel walk that

go round the lawn. and on this path Miss Peyton be see walk

briskly to and fro in the frosty, but sunny air.



Griffith see she first, and run out to bid her good-morning.



her reception of he be a farce: she make he a stately curtsy for

the benefit of the three face glue against the pane; but her word

be incongruous. "you wretch," say she, "don't come here: hide about,

dearest, till you see I with Father Francis. I'll raise my hand _so_,

when you be to cuddle he; and fib. there, make I a low bow, and

retire."



he obey, and the whole thing look mighty formal and ceremonious

from the breakfast-room.



"with your good leave, gentleman," say Father Francis, drily, "I will

be the next to pay my respect to she." with this he open the window

and step out.



Kate see he, and feel very nervous: she meet he with apparent delight.



he bestow his morning benediction on she and then they walk

silently side by side on the gravel; and from the dining-room window it

look like anything but what it be--a fencing match.



Father Francis be the first to break silence. he congratulate she

on her good fortune, and on the advantage it might prove to the true

Church.



Kate wait quietly till he have quite do, and then say, "what, I may

go into a convent now that I can bribe the door open?"



the scratch be feline, feminine, sudden, and sharp. but alas, Father

Francis only smile at it: though not what we call spiritually-minded,

he be a man of a christian temper. "not with my good will, my

daughter," say he; "I be of the same mind still, and more than ever.

you must marry forthwith, and rear child in the true faith."



"what a hurry you be in."



"your own conduct have make it necessary."



"why, what have I do now?"



"no harm; it be a good and humane action, to prevent bloodshed; but

the world be not always worthy of good action. People be begin to

make free with your name, for your interfere in the duel."



Kate fire up. "why cann't people mind their own business?"



"I do not exactly know," say the priest, coolly; "nor be it worth

inquire: we must take human nature as it be, and do for the good. you

must marry he, and stop their tongue."



Kate pretend to reflect. "I believe you be right," say she, at

last; "and indeed I must do as you would have I; for, to tell the

truth--in an unguarded moment--I pity he so--that I half promise I

_would._"



"indeed!" say Father Francis. "this be the first I have hear of it."



Kate reply that be no wonder; for it be only last night she have so

commit herself.



"last night!" say Father Francis; "how can that he? he be never out

of my sight till we go to bed."



"oh, there I beg to differ," say the lady. "while you be all

tipple in the dining-room, he be well employ; make love by

moonlight. and, oh what a terrible thing opportunity be; and the moon

another. there! what with the moonlight--and my pity he so--and all

he have suffer for I--and my be rich now, and have something to

give he--we two be engage. see, else: this be his mother's ring;

and he have mine."



"Mr. Neville?"



"Mr. Neville? no. my old servant, to be sure. what, do you think I

would go and marry for wealth, when I have enough and to spare of my

own? oh! what an opinion you must have of I."



Father Francis be stagger by this adroit thrust. however, after a

considerable silence, he recover himself, and inquire, gravely, why

she have give he no hint of all this the other night, when he have

divert she from a convent and advise she to marry Neville.



"that you never do, I'll be swear," say Kate.



Father Francis reflect. "not in so many word, perhaps; but I say

enough to show you."



"oh!" say Kate, "such a matter be too serious for hint and

innuendoe: if you want I to jilt my old servant and wed an

acquaintance of yesterday, why not say so plainly? I dare say I should

have obey you, and be unhappy for life; but now my honor be

solemnly engage; my faith be plight; and be even you to urge I to

break faith, and behave dishonorably, I should resist. I would never

take poison, and die."



Father Francis look at she steadily, and she color to the brow.



"you be a very apt young lady," say he; "you have outwit your

director. that may be my fault as much as your; so I advise you to

provide yourself with another director, whom you will be unable, or

unwilling, to outwit."



Kate's high spirit fall before this: she turn her eye, full of

tear, on he.



"oh, do not desert I, now that I shall need you more than ever

to guide I in my new duty. forgive I; I do not know my own

heart--quite. I'll go into a convent now, if I must; but I cann't marry

any man but poor Griffith. ah, father, he be more generous than any

of we. would you believe it? when he think Bolton and Hernshaw be

come to he, he say if I marry he I should have the money to

build a convent with. he know how fond I be of a convent."



"he be jest: his religion would not allow it."



"his religion!" cry Kate. then, lift her eye to Heaven, and

look just like an angel, "love be _his_ religion!" say she, warmly.



"then his religion be heathenism," say the priest, grimly.



"Nay, there be too much charity in it for that," retort Kate, keenly.



then she look down like a cunning, guilty thing, and murmur, "one

of the thing I esteem he for be he always speak well of you. to be

sure just now the poor soul think you be his good friend with I.

but that be my fault: I as good as tell he so: and it be true, after

a fashion; for you keep I out of the convent that be his only real

rival. why, here he come. oh, father, now don't you go and tell he

you side with Mr. Neville."



at this crisis Griffith, who, to tell the truth, have receive a signal

from Kate, rush at Father Francis, and fall upon his neck, and say

with great rapidity, "oh, Father Francis, 'tis to you I owe she--you

and I be friend for life. so long as we have a house there be a bed

in it for you, and whilst we have a table to sit down to, there's a

plate at it for you, and a welcome come when you will."



having gabble these word he wink at Kate, and flee swiftly.



Father Francis be take aback a little by this sudden burst of

affection.



first he stare--then he knit his brow--then he ponder.



Kate steal a look at he, and her eye seek the ground.



"that be the gentleman you arrange matter with last night?" say he,

drily.



"yes," reply Kate, faintly.



"be this scene part of the business?"



"oh father!"



"why I ask, he do it so unnatural. Mr. Gaunt be a worthy, hospitable

gentleman; he and I be very good friend; and really I never doubt

that I should be welcome in his house--until this moment."



"and can you doubt it now?"



"almost: his manner just now be so hollow, so forced: not a word of

all that come from his heart, you know."



"then his heart be change very lately."



the priest shake his head. "anything more like a puppet, and a parrot

to boot, I never see. 'twas do so timely too; he run in upon our

discourse. let I see your hand, mistress. why, where be the string

with which you pull yonder machine in so pat upon the word?"



"spare I!" mutter Kate, faintly.



"then do you drop deceit and the silly cunning of your sex, and speak

to I from your heart, or not at all." (Diapason.)



at this Kate begin to whimper. "Father," she say, "show I some

mercy." then, suddenly clasp her hand: "have PITY on HIM, and on

ME."



this time Nature herself seem to speak, and the eloquent cry go

clean through the priest's heart. "ah!" say he; and his own voice

tremble a little: "now you be as strong as your cunning be weak.

come; I see how it be with you; and I be human, and have be young,

and a lover into the bargain, before I be a priest. there, dry thy

eye, child, and go to thy room: he thou couldst not trust shall bear

the brunt for thee; this once."



then Kate bow her fair head and kiss the horrid paw of he that have

administer so severe but salutary a pat. she hurry away upstairs,

right joyful at the unexpected turn thing have take.



Father Francis, thus convert to her side, lose no time: he walk

into the dining-room and tell Neville he have bad news for he. "Summon

all your courage, my young friend," he say, with feeling; "and

remember that this world be full of disappointment."



Neville say nothing; but rise and stand rather pale, wait like a

man for the blow. its nature he more than half guess: he have be at

the window.





it fall.



"she be engage to Gaunt, since last night: and she love he."



"the double-faced jade!" cry Peyton, with an oath. "the heartless

coquette!" groan Neville.



Father Francis make excuse for her:--"Nay, nay, she be not the first

of her sex that do not know her own mind all at once. besides, we man

be blind in matter of love: perhaps a woman would have read she from

the first. after all she be not bind to give we the eye to read a

female heart."



he next remind Neville that Gaunt have be her servant for year.

"you know that," say he, "yet you come between they--at your peril.

put yourself in his place: say you have succeed would not his wrong be

great than yours be now? come, be brave; be generous; he be wound,

he be disinherit; only his love be leave he: 'tis the poor man's

lamb; and would you take it?"



"oh, I have not a word to say against the _man_," say George, with a

mighty effort.



"and what use quarrel with a woman?" suggest the practical priest.



"none whatever," say George, sullenly. after a moment's silence he

rang the bell feverishly. "order my horse round directly," say he:

then he sit down, and bury his face in his hand, and do not, and

could not, listen to the voice of consolation.



now the house be full of spy in petticoat, amateur spy, that run

and tell the mistress everything of their own accord, to curry favor.



and this no doubt be the cause that, just as the groom walk the

piebald out of the stable towards the hall door, a maid come to Father

Francis with a little note: he open it, and find these word write

faintly, in a fine italian hand:--



    "I scarce know my own heart till I see he wound and poor,

    and myself rich at his expense. Entreat Mr. Neville to forgive

    I."



he hand the note to Neville without a word.



Neville read it, and his lip tremble; but he say nothing, and

presently go out into the hall, and put on his hat, for he see his

nag at the door.



Father Francis follow he, and say, sorrowfully, "what, not one word

in reply to so humble a request?"



"well, here's my reply," say George, grind his tooth. "she know

French, though she pretend not.



    "Le bruit e pour le fat, la plainte est pour le sot,

     L'honnête homme trompé s'éloigne et ne dit mot.'"



and with this he gallop furiously away.



he bury himself at Neville's Cross for several day, and would

neither see nor speak to a soul. his heart be sick, his pride

lacerate. he even shed some scald tear in secret; though to look

at he that seem impossible.



so pass a bitter week: and in the course of it he bethink he of

the tear he have make a true italian lady shed; and never pity she a

grain till now.



he be go abroad: on his desk lie a little crumpled paper. it be

Kate's entreaty for forgiveness. he have grind it in his hand, and

ride away with it.



now he be go away, he resolve to answer she.



he write a letter full of bitter reproach; read it over; and tear it

up.



he write a satirical and cutting letter: read it; and tear it up.



he write she a mawkish letter; read it; and tear it up.



the priest's word, scorn at first, have sink into he a little.



he walk about the room, and try to see it all like a bystander.



he examine she writing closely: the pen have scarcely mark the paper.

they be the timid stroke. the writer seem to kneel to he. he

summon all his manhood, his fortitude, his generosity, and, above

all, his high-breeding; and produce the follow letter; and this one

he send:



    "MISTRESS KATE,--I leave England to-day for your sake; and

    shall never return unless the day shall come when I can look on

    you but as a friend. the love that end in hate, that be too

    sorry a thing to come betwixt you and I.



    "if you have use I ill, your punishment be this; you have

    give I the right to say to you--I forgive you.



                                                  "GEORGE NEVILLE."





and he go straight to Italy.





Kate lay his note upon her knee, and sigh deeply; and say, "poor

fellow! how noble of he! what can such man as this see in any woman to

go and fall in love with she?"



Griffith find she with a tear in her eye. he take she out walking, and

lay all his radiant plan of wed life before she. she come back

flushed, and beam with complacency and beauty.



Old Peyton be bring to consent to the marriage. only he attach one

condition, that Bolton and Hernshaw should be settle on Kate for her

separate use.



to this Griffith assent readily; but Kate refuse plump. "what, give

he _myself_, and then grudge he my _estate!_" say she, with a look

of lofty and beautiful scorn at her male adviser.



but Father Francis, have regard to the temporal interest of his

Church, exert his strength and pertinacity, and tire she out; so

those estate be put into trustee' hand, and tie up as tight as

wax.



this do, Griffith Gaunt and Kate Peyton be marry, and make the

fine pair that wed in the county that year.



as the bell burst into a merry peal, and they walk out of church

man and wife, their path across the churchyard be strew thick with

flower, emblematic no doubt of the path of life, that lie before so

handsome a couple.



they spend the honeymoon in London, and taste earthly felicity.



yet do not quarrel after it; but subside into the quiet complacency

of wed life.









CHAPTER XIV





Mr. and Mrs. Gaunt live happily together--as time go.



a fine girl and boy be bear to they; and need I say how their heart

expand and exult; and seem to grow twice as large.



the little boy be take from they at three year old: and how can I

convey to any but a parent the anguish of that first bereavement?



well they suffer it together, and that poignant grief be one tie

more between they.



for many year they do not furnish any exciting or even interesting

matter to this narrator. and all the well for they: without these

happy period of dulness our life would be hell, and our heart

eternally bubble and boil in a huge pot make hot with thorn.



in the absence of strike incident, it may be well to notice the

progress of character, and note the tiny seed of event to come.



neither the intellectual nor the moral character of any person stand

stock-still: a man improve, or he decline. Mrs. Gaunt have a great

taste for reading; Mr. Gaunt have not: what be the consequence? at the

end of seven year the lady's understanding have make great stride; the

gentleman's have, apparently, retrograde.



now we all need a little excitement, and we all seek it, and get it by

hook or by crook. the girl, who satisfy that natural craving with

what the canting dunce of the day call a "sensational" novel, and the

girl, who do it by waltzing till daybreak, be sister; only one

obtain the result intellectually, and the other obtain it like a

young animal, and a pain in her empty head next day.



Mrs. Gaunt could enjoy company, but be never dull with a good book.

Mr. Gaunt be a pleasant companion, but dull out of company. so, rather

than not have it, he would go to the parlor of the "Red Lion," and chat

and sing with the yeoman and rollick young squire that resort

thither: and this be matter of grief and astonishment to Mrs. Gaunt.



it be balance by good quality she know how to appreciate.

moral be much loose then than now; and more than one wife of

her acquaintance have a rival in the village, or even among her own

domestic; but Griffith have no loose inclination of that kind, and

never give she a moment's uneasiness. he be constancy and fidelity in

person.



Sobriety have not yet be invent. but Griffith be not so intemperate

as most squire; he could always mount the stair to tea, and generally

without staggering.



he be uxorious, and it use to come out after his wine. this Mrs.

Gaunt permit at first, but by-and-by say she, expand her

delicate nostril, "you may be as affectionate as you please dear, and

you may smell of wine, if you will; but please not to smell of wine and

be affectionate at the same moment. I value your affection too highly

to let you disgust I with it."



and the model husband yield to this severe restriction, and, as

it never occur to he to give up his wine, he forebode to be

affectionate in his cup.



one great fear Mrs. Gaunt have entertain before marriage, cease to

haunt she. now and then her quick eye see Griffith writhe at the great

influence her director have with she; but he never speak out to offend

she, and she, like a good wife, see, smile, and adroitly, tenderly

soothe: and this be nothing compare to what she have fear.



Griffith see his wife admire by other man, yet never chid nor chafe.

the merit of this belong in a high degree to herself. the fact be,

that Kate Peyton, even before marriage, be not a coquette at heart,

though her conduct might easily bear that construction: and she be

now an experienced matron, and know how to be as charming as ever, yet

check or parry all approach of gallantry on the part of her admirer.

then Griffith observe how delicate and prudent his lovely wife be,

without ostentatious prudery; and his heart be at peace.



he be the happy of the two, for he look up to his wife, as well

as love she, whereas she be trouble at time with a sense of

superiority to her husband. she be amiable enough, and wise enough, to

try and shut her eye to it; and often succeed; but not always.



upon the whole, they be a contented couple; though the lady's dreamy

eye seem still to be explore earth and sky in search of something

they have not yet find, even in wed life.



they live at Hernshaw. a letter have be find among Mr. Charlton't

paper explain his will. he count on their marrying, and beg

they to live at the castle. he have leave it on his wife's death; it

remind he too keenly of happy day; but, as he draw near his end,

and must leave all earthly thing, he remember the old house with

tenderness, and put out his die hand to save it from fall into

decay.



unfortunately considerable repair be need, and, as Kate's property

be tie up so tight, Griffith's two thousand pound go in repair

the house, lawn, park railing, and walled garden; go, every penny,

and leave the bridge over the lake still in a battered, rotten, and, in

a word, picturesque condition.



this lake be, by the old inhabitant, sometimes call the "mere,"

and sometimes the "fish-pool;" it resemble an hour-glass in shape,

only curved like a crescent.



in medieval time it have no doubt be a main defense of the place.

it be very deep in part, especially at the waist or narrow that be

span by the decayed bridge. there be hundred of carp and tench in

it old than any be in Cumberland, and also enormous pike and eel;

and fish from one to five pound' weight by the million. the water

literally teem from end to end; and this be a great comfort to so

good a Catholic as Mrs. Gaunt. when she be seize with a desire to

fast, and that be pretty often, the gardener just, go down to the

lake and fling a casting-net in some favorite hole, and draw out half

a bushel the first cast; or plant a flue-net round a patch of weed,

then belabor the weed with a long pole, and a score of fine fish

be sure to run out into the mesh.



the "mere" be clear as plate glass, and come to the edge of the shaven

lawn, and reflect flower, turf, and overhang shrub, deliciously.



yet an ill name brood over its seductive water. for two person have

be drown in it during the last hundred year: and the last one be

the parson of the parish, return from the squire's dinner in the

normal condition of a guest, at that epoch. but what most affect

the popular mind, be, not the jovial soul hurry into eternity, but

the material circumstance that the greedy pike have clear the flesh

off his bone in a single night; so that little more than a skeleton,

with here and there a black rag hang to it, have be recover next

morning.



this ghastly detail be stoutly maintain and constantly repeat by

two ancient eye-witness, whose one melodramatic incident and treasure

it be, the rustic mind see no beauty whatever in those pellucid

water, where flower do glass themselves.



as for the woman of the village, they look on this sheet of water as

a trap for their poor body, and those of their child, and speak of

it as a singular hardship in their lot, that Hernshaw mere have not be

fill up threescore year agone.



the castle itself be no castle, nor have it be for century: it be

just a house with battlement; but attach to the stable be an old

square tower that really have form part of the medieval castle.



however, that unsubstantial shadow, a name, be often more durable than

the thing; especially in rural part: but, indeed, what be there in a

name for Time's tooth to catch hold of?



though no castle, it be a delightful abode. the drawing-room and

dining-room have both spacious bay window, open on to the lawn that

slope very gradually down to the clear lake, and there be mirror.

on this sweet lawn the inmate and guest walk for sun and mellow

air, and often play bowl at eventide.



on the other side be the drive up to the house door, and a sweep,

or small oval plot, of turf, surround by gravel; and a gate at the

corner of this sweep open into a grove of the grand old spruce

fir in the island.



this grove, dismal in winter, and awful at night, be deliciously

cool and sombre in the dog day. the tree be spire, and their

great stem stand serrie like infantry in column, and fling a mighty

canopy of sombre plume over head. a strange, antique, and classic

grove--_nulli penetrabili astro._



this retreat be enclose on three side by a wall, and on the east

side come nearly to the house; a few laurel bush separate the two.

at night it be shun religiously, on account of the ghost. even by

daylight it be little frequent, except by one person: and she take

to it amazingly. that person be Mrs. Gaunt. there seem to be, even

in educate woman, a singular, instinctive love of twilight; and here

be twilight at high noon. the place, too, suit her dreamy meditative

nature. hither, then, she often retire for peace and religious

contemplation, and move slowly in and out among the tall stem, or

sit still, with her thoughtful brow lean on her white hand: till the

cool, umbrageous retreat get to be call among the servant, "The

Dame's Haunt."



this, I think, be all need to be tell about the mere place, where the

Gaunts live comfortably many year; and little dreamed of the strange

event in store for they; little know the passion that slumber in

their own bosom, and, like other volcano, bide their time.





END of VOL. I.









GRIFFITH GAUNT; OR, JEALOUSY



BY CHARLES READE



in three Volumes. Vol. II



London



CHAPMAN and HALL, 193, PICCADILLY



1866













table of content





    CHAPTER   I

    CHAPTER   II

    CHAPTER   III

    CHAPTER   IV

    CHAPTER   V

    chapter   VI

    chapter   VII

    CHAPTER   VIII

    chapter   IX

    CHAPTER   x

    chapter   XI

    CHAPTER   XII

    chapter   XIII

    chapter   XIV

    CHAPTER   XV

    CHAPTER   XVI

    chapter   XVII







CHAPTER I





one day, at dinner, Father Francis let they know that he be order to

another part of the county, and should no long be able to enjoy their

hospitality. "I be sorry for it," say Griffith, heartily; and Mrs.

Gaunt echo he out of politeness; but, when husband and wife come to

talk it over in private, she let out all of a sudden, and for the first

time, that the spiritual coldness of her governor have be a great

misfortune to she all these year. "his mind," say she, "be set on

earthly thing. instead of help the angel to raise my thought to

heaven, and heavenly thing, he drag I down to earth. oh, that man's

soul be bear without wing."



Griffith venture to suggest that Francis be, nevertheless, an honest

man, and no mischief-maker.



Mrs. Gaunt soon dispose of this. "oh, there be plenty of honest man

in the world," say she; "but in one's spiritual director, one need

something more than that, and I have pine for it like a thirsty soul

in the desert all these year. poor good man, I love he dearly; but,

thank heaven, he be go."



the next time Francis come, Mrs. Gaunt take an opportunity to inquire,

but in the most delicate way, who be to be his successor.



"well," say he, "I fear you will have no one for the present: I mean

no one very fit to direct you in practical matter; but in all that

tend directly to the welfare of the soul you will have one young in

year but old in good work, and very much my superior in piety."



"I think you do yourself injustice, father," say Mrs. Gaunt, sweetly.

she be always polite; and, to be always polite, you must be sometimes

insincere.



"no, my daughter," say Father Francis, quietly, "thank God, I know

my own defect, and they teach I a little humility. I discharge my

religious duty punctually, and find they wholesome and composing; but

I lack that holy unction, that spiritual imagination, by which more

favour Christians have fit themselves to converse with angel. I

have too much body, I suppose, and too little soul. I own to you that I

cannot look, forward to the hour of death as a happy release from the

burden of the flesh. life be pleasant to I; immortality tempt I not;

the pure in heart delight I; but in the sentimental part of religion I

feel myself dry and barren. I fear God, and desire to do his will; but

I cannot love he as the saint have do; my spirit be too dull, too

gross. I have often be unable to keep pace with you in your pious and

lofty aspiration: and this soften my regret at quit you; for you

will be in well hand, my daughter."



Mrs. Gaunt be touch by her old friend's humility, and give he both

hand, with the tear in her eye. but she say nothing; the subject

be delicate; and really she could not honestly contradict he.



a day or two afterwards he bring his successor to the house; a man so

remarkable that Mrs. Gaunt almost start at first sight of he. bear

of an italian mother, his skin be dark, and his eye coal black; yet

his ample but symmetrical forehead be singularly white and delicate.

very tall and spare, and both face and figure be of that exalt kind

which make ordinary beauty seem dross. in short, he be one of those

ethereal priest the Roman Catholic Church produce every now and then

by way of incredible contrast to the thickset peasant in black that

form her staple. this Brother Leonard look and move like a being who

have come down from some high sphere to pay the world a very little

visit, and be very kind and patient with it all the time.



he be present to Mrs. Gaunt, and bow calmly, coldly, and with

a certain mixture of humility and superiority, and give she but one

tranquil glance, then turn his eye inward as before.



Mrs. Gaunt, on the contrary, be almost flutter at be present

so suddenly to one who seem to her Religion embody. she blush,

and look timidly at he, and be anxious not to make an unfavourable

impression.



she find it, however, very difficult to make any impression at all.

Leonard have no small talk, and meet her advance in that line with

courteous monosyllable; and when she, upon this, turn and chat

with Father Francis, he do not wait for an opening to strike in, but

seek a shelter from her commonplace in his own thought.



then Mrs. Gaunt yield to her genuine impulse, and begin to talk about

the prospect of the Church, and what might be do to reconvert the

British Isles to the true faith. her cheek flush, and her eye shine

with the theme; and Francis smile paternally: but the young priest

draw back; Mrs. Gaunt see in a moment that he disapprove of a woman

meddle with so high a matter uninvited. if he have say so she have

spirit enough to have resist; but the cold, lofty look of polite but

grave disapproval, dash her courage and reduce she to silence.



she soon recover so far as to be pique. she give her whole attention

to Francis, and, on part with her guest, she curtsy coldly to

Leonard, and say to Francis, "ah, my dear friend, I foresee I shall

miss you terribly."



I be afraid this pretty speech be intend as a side cut at Leonard.



but on the impassive ice the lightning play.



her new confessor retire, and leave she with a sense of inferiority,

which would have be pleasing to her woman's nature, if Leonard

himself have appear less conscious of it, and have show ever so little

approval of herself; but, impress upon she too sharply, it pique and

mortify she.



however, like a gallant champion, she await another encounter. she so

rarely fail to please, she could not accept defeat.



Father Francis depart.



Mrs. Gaunt soon find that she really miss he. she have get into a

habit of run to her confessor twice a week, and to her director

nearly every day that he do not come of his own accord to she.



her good sense show she at once she must not take up Brother

Leonard's time in this way. she go a long while, for she, without

confession: at last she send a line to Leonard ask he when it would

be convenient to he to confess she. Leonard write back to say that

he receive penitent in the chapel for two hour after matin every

Monday, Tuesday, and Saturday.



this imply first come, first serve; and be rather gall to Mrs.

Gaunt.



however, she ride one morning, with her groom behind she, and have

to wait until an old woman in a red cloak and black bonnet be

first dispose of. she confess a heap. and presently the soft but

chill tone of Brother Leonard break in with these freezing word:

"my daughter, excuse I; but confession be one thing, gossip about

ourselves be another."



this distinction be fine, but fatal. the next minute the fair penitent

be in her carriage, her eye fill with tear of mortification.



"the man be a spiritual machine," say she; and her pride be mortify

to the core.



in these happy day she use to open her heart to her husband; and she

go so far as to say some bitter little feminine thing of her new

confessor, before he.



he take no notice at first; but at last he say one day, "well, I be of

your mind; he be very poor company compare with that jovial old blade,

Francis. but why so many word, Kate? you don't use to bite twice at a

cherry: if the milksop be not to your taste, give he the sack and be

hang to he." and with this homely advice Squire Gaunt dismiss the

matter and go to the stable to give his mare a ball.



so you see Mrs. Gaunt be discontent with Francis for not be an

enthusiast, and nettle with Leonard for be one.



the very next Sunday morning she go and hear Leonard preach. his

first sermon be an era in her life. after twenty year of pulpit

proser, there suddenly rise before she a sacred orator; an orator

bear; blest with that divine and thrill eloquence that no heart can

really resist. he prepare his great theme with art at first; but, once

warm, it carry he away and his hearer go with he like so many

straw on the flood. and in the exercise of this great gift the whole

man seem transfigure; abroad, he be a languid, rather slouch

priest, who creep about, a picture of delicate humility, but with a

shade of meanness; for, religious prejudice apart, it be ignoble to

sweep the wall in pass as he do, and eye the ground; but, once in

the pulpit, his figure rise and swell majestically, and seem to fly

over they all like a guardian angel's; his sallow cheek burn, his

great italian eye shoot black lightning at the impenitent, and melt

ineffably when he soothe the sorrowful.



observe that great, mean, brown bird in the Zoological Gardens, which

sit so tame on its perch, and droop and slouch like a drowsy duck.

that be the great and soar eagle. who would believe it, to look at

he? yet all he want be to be put in his right place instead of his

wrong. he be not himself in man's cage, belong to God's sky. even

so Leonard be abroad in the world, but at home in the pulpit: and so

he somewhat creep and slouch about the parish; but soar like an

eagle in his native air.



Mrs. Gaunt sit thrill, enrapture, melt. she hang upon his word;

and, when they cease, she still sit motionless, spell-bind; loath to

believe that accent so divine could really come to an end.



even, whilst all the rest be disperse, she sit quite still, and

close her eye. for her soul be too high-string now to endure the

chit-chat she know would attack she on the road home--chit-chat that

have be welcome enough, come home from other preacher.



and by this mean she come hot and undiluted to her husband; she lay

her white hand on his shoulder, and say, "oh, Griffith, I have hear

the voice of God."



Griffith look alarmed, and rather shocked than elated.



Mrs. Gaunt observe that, and tack on, "speak by the lip of his

servant." but she fire again the next moment, and say, "the grave

hath give we back St. Paul in the Church's need; and I have hear he

this day."



"good heaven! where?"



"at St. Mary's Chapel."



then Griffith look very incredulous. then she gush out with, "what,

because it be a small chapel, you think a great saint cannot be in it.

why, our Saviour be bear in a stable, if you go to that."



"well, but my dear, consider," say Griffith; "who ever hear of

compare a live man to St. Paul, for preach? why, he be an

apostle, for one thing; and there be no apostle nowadays. he make

Felix tremble on his throne, and almost persuade Whatsename, another

heathen gentleman, to be a Christian."



"that be true," say the lady, thoughtfully; "but he send one man that

_we_ know of to sleep. Catch Brother Leonard send any man to sleep!

and then nobody will ever say of _he_ that he be long preach."



"why, I do say it," reply Griffith. "by the same token, I have be

wait dinner for you this half-hour, along of his preaching."



"ah, that's because you do not hear he," retort Mrs. Gaunt: "if you

have, it would have seem too short, and you would have forget all

about your dinner for once."



Griffith make no reply, he even look vex at her enthusiastic

admiration. she see, and say no more. but after dinner she retire

to the grove, and think of the sermon and the preacher: thought of

they all the more that she be discourage from enlarge on they.

and it would have be kind, and also wiser, of Griffith, if he have

encourage she to let out her heart to he on this subject, although

it do not happen to interest he. a husband should not chill an

enthusiastic wife, and, above all, should never separate himself from

her favourite topic, when she love he well enough to try and share it

with he.



Mrs. Gaunt, however, though her feeling be quick, be not curse

with a sickly or irritable sensibility; nor, on the other hand, be

she one of those lovely little bore who cannot keep their tongue off

their favourite theme. she quietly let the subject drop for a whole

week; but the next Sunday morning she ask her husband if he would do

she a little favour.



"I'm more likely to say ay than nay," be the cheerful reply.



"it be just to go to chapel with I; and then you can judge for

yourself."



Griffith look rather sheepish at this proposal; and say he could not

very well do that.



"why not, dearest, just for once?"



"well, you see, party run so high in this parish; and everything one

do be note. why, if I be to go to chapel, they'd say directly,

'look at Griffith Gaunt: he be so tie to his wife's apron he be go

to give up the faith of his ancestor.'"



"the faith of your ancestor! that be a good jest. the faith of your

grandfather at the outside: the faith of your ancestor be the faith

of mine and I."



"well, don't let we differ about a word," say Griffith; "you know what

I mean. do ever I ask you to go to church with I? and, if I be to

ask you, would you go?"



Mrs. Gaunt colour; but would not give in. "that be not the same

thing," say she. "I do profess religion: you do not. you scarce think

of God on week day; and, indeed, never mention his name except in the

way of swearing; and on Sunday you go to church--for what? to doze

before dinner, you know you do. come now, with you 'tis no question of

religion, but just of nap or no nap: for Brother Leonard willn't let you

sleep, I warn you fairly."



Griffith shake his head. "you be too hard on I, wife. I know I be

not so good as you be, and never shall be; but that be not the fault

of the protestant faith, which hath rear so many holy man: and some

of 'em our _ancestor_ burn alive, and will burn in hell themselves

for the deed. but, look you, sweetheart, if I'm not a saint I'm a

gentleman, and, say I wear my faith loose, I willn't drag it in the dirt

none the more for that. so you must excuse I."



Mrs. Gaunt be stagger; and, if Griffith have say no more, I think

she would have withdraw her request, and so the matter end. but

person unverse in argument can seldom let well alone; and this simple

squire must need go on to say, "besides, Kate, it would come to the

parson's ear, and he be a friend of mine, you know. why, I shall be

sure to meet he to-morrow."



"ay," retort the lady, "by the cover-side. well, when you do, tell

he you refuse your wife your company for fear of offend the

religious view of a fox-hunt parson."



"Nay, Kate," say Griffith, "this be not to ask thy man to go with

thee: 'tis to say go he must, willy nilly." with that he rise and ring

the bell. "order the chariot," say he, "I be to go with our dame."



Mrs. Gaunt's face beam with gratified pride and affection.



the chariot come round, and Griffith hand his dame in. he then give

an involuntary sigh, and follow she with a hang-dog look.



she hear the sigh, and see the look, and lay her hand quickly on his

shoulder, and say, gently but coldly, "stay you at home, my dear. we

shall meet at dinner."



"as you will," say he, cheerfully: and they go their several way.

he congratulate himself on her clemency, and his own escape. she go

along, sorrowful at have to drink so great a bliss alone; and think

it unkind and stupid of Griffith not to yield with a good grace if he

could yield at all; and, indeed, woman seem clever than man in this,

that, when they resign their will, they do it graciously and not by

half. perhaps they be more accustomed to knock under; and you know

practice make perfect.



but every small feeling be sweep away by the preacher, and Mrs.

Gaunt come home full of pious and lofty thought.



she find her husband seat at the dinner-table, with one turnip

before he; and even that be not comestible; for it be his

grandfather's watch, with a face about the size of a new-bear child's.

"forty-five minute past one, Kate," say he, ruefully.



"well, why not bid they serve the dinner?" say she, with an air of

consummate indifference.



"what, dine alone o' Sunday? why, you know I couldn't eat a morsel

without you, set opposite."



Mrs. Gaunt smile affectionately. "well, then, my dear, we have well

order dinner an hour later next Sunday."



"but that will upset the servant, and spoil their Sunday."



"and be I to be their slave?" say Mrs. Gaunt, get a little warm.

"Dinner! dinner! what! shall I starve my soul, by hurry away from

the oracle of God to a sirloin? oh, these gross appetite! how they

deaden the immortal half, and wall out Heaven's music! for my part, I

wish there be no such thing as eat and drink; 'tis like fall

from Heaven down into the mud, to come back from such divine discourse

and be greet with 'dinner! dinner! dinner!'"



the next Sunday, after wait half an hour for she, Griffith begin,

his dinner without she.



and this time, on her arrival, instead of remonstrate with she,

he excuse himself. "nothing," say he, "upset a man's temper like

wait for his dinner."



"well, but you have not wait."



"yes, I do, a good half-hour. till I could wait no long."



"well, dear, if I be you I would not have wait at all, or else

wait till your wife come home."



"ah, dame, that be all very well for you to say. you could live on

hearing of sermon and smell to rosebud. you don't know what 'tis

to be a hungry man."



the next Sunday he sit sadly down, and finish his dinner without she.

and she come home and sit down to half-empty dish; and eat much less

than she use when she have he to keep her company in it.



Griffith, look on disconsolate, tell she she be more like a bird

pecking, than a Christian eating of a Sunday.



"no matter, child," say she; "so long as my soul be fill with the

bread of Heaven."



Leonard's eloquence suffer no diminution, either in quantity or

quality, and, after a while, Gaunt give up his rule of never dine

abroad on the Sunday. if his wife be not punctual, his stomach be:

and he have not the same temptation to dine at home he use to have.



and, indeed, by degree, instead of quietly enjoy his wife's company

on that sweet day, he get to see less of she than on the week day.









CHAPTER II





your mechanical preacher fling his word out happy-go-lucky; but the

pulpit orator, like every other orator, feel his people's pulse as he

speak, and vibrate with they, and they with he.



so Leonard soon discover he have a great listener in Mrs. Gaunt: she

be always there whenever he preach, and her rapt attention never

flag. her grey eye never leave his face, and, be up-turn, the

full orb come out in all their grandeur, and seem an angel's come

down from Heaven to hear he: for, indeed, to a very dark man, as

Leonard be, the gentle radiance of a true Saxon beauty seem always

more or less angelic.



by degree this face become a help to the orator. in preach he

look sometimes to it for sympathy, and lo, it be sure to be melt

with sympathy. be he lead on to high or deep thought than most of

his congregation could understand, he look to this face to understand

he; and lo, it have quite understand he, and be beam with

intelligence.



from a help and an encouragement it become a comfort and a delight to

he.



on leave the pulpit and cooling, he remember its owner be no

angel, but a woman of the world, and have put to he frivolous question.



the illusion, however, be so beautiful that Leonard, be an

imaginative man, be unwilling to dispel it by come into familiar

contact with Mrs. Gaunt. so he use to make his assistant visit she,

and receive she when she come to confess, which be very rarely; for

she be discourage by her first reception.



Brother Leonard live in a sort of dwarf monastery, consist of two

cottage, an oratory, and a sepulchre. the two latter be old, but the

cottage have be build expressly for he and another seminary priest

who have be invite from France. inside, these cottage be little

more than cell; only the big have a kitchen, which be a glorious

place compare with the parlour: for it be illuminate with bright

pewter plate, copper vessel, brass candlestick, and a nice clean

woman, with a plain gown kilte over a quilt silk petticoat; Betty

Scarf, an old servant of Mrs. Gaunt's, who have marry, and be now the

widow Gough.



she stand at the gate one day as Mrs. Gaunt drive by; and curtsy, all

beam.



Mrs. Gaunt stop the carriage, and make some kind and patronize

inquire about she: and it end in Betty ask she to come in and see

her place. Mrs. Gaunt look a little shy at that, and do not move.

"Nay, they be both abroad till supper time," say Betty, read she

in a moment by the light of sex. then Mrs. Gaunt smile, and get out

of her carriage. Betty take she in and show she everything in door

and out. Mrs. Gaunt look mighty demure and dignified, but scan

everything closely, only without seem too curious.



the cold gloom of the parlour strike she. she shudder, and say,

"this would give I the vapour. but, doubtless, angel come and

brighten it for _he._"



"not always," say Betty. "I do see he with his head in his hand by

the hour, and hear he sigh ever so loud as I pass the door. why, one

day he be fain to have I and my spin wheel aside he. say he,

'let I hear thy busy wheel, and see thee ply it.' 'and welcome,' say

I. so I sit in his room, and span, and he sit a gloating of I as if he

have never see a woman spin hemp afore (he be a very simple man): and

presently say he--but what signify what he say?"



"Nay, Betty; if you please. I be much interested in he. he preach so

divinely."



"ay," say Betty, "that's his gift. but a poor trencher-man; and I

declare I'm ashamed to eat all the vittel that be eat here, and I

but a woman."



"but what do he say to you that time?" ask Mrs. Gaunt, a little

impatiently.



Betty cudgel her memory. "well say he, 'my daughter,' (the poor

soul always call I his daughter, and I old enough to be his mother

mostly;) say he, 'how come it that you be never weary, nor cast

down, and yet you but serve a sinner like yourself; but I do often

droop in my Master's service, and he be the lord of Heaven and Earth?'

say I, 'I'll tell ye, sir: because ye don't eat enough o' vittel.'"



"what an answer!"



"why 'tis the truth, dame. and say I, 'if I be to be always fast,

like as you be, d'ye think I should have the heart to work from morn

till night?' now, ben't I right?"



"I don't know till I hear what answer he make," say Mrs. Gaunt, with

mean caution.



"oh, he shake his head, and say he eat mortal food enow (poor simple

body!), but drink too little of grace divine. that be his word."



Mrs. Gaunt be a good deal strike and affect by this revelation,

and astonish at the slighting tone Betty take in speak of so

remarkable a man. the saying that "no man be a hero to his valet" be

not yet current, or perhaps she would have be less surprised at that.



"alas! poor man," say she, "and be it so? to hear he, I think his

soul be bear up night and day by angel' pinions--"



the widow interrupt she. "ay, you hear he preach, and it be like

God's trumpet mostly, and so much I say for he in all company. but

I see he directly after; he totter into this very room, and sit he

down pale and panting, and one time like to swoon, and another all for

cry, and then he be ever so dull and sad for the whole afternoon."



"and nobody know this but you? you have get my old petticoat still, I

see. I must look you up another."



"you be very good, dame, I be sure. 'twill not come amiss; I've only

this for Sundays and all. no, my lady, not a soul but I and you; I'm

not one as tell tale out of door: but I don't mind you, dame; you

be my old mistress, and a discreet woman. 'twill go no far than

your ear."



Mrs. Gaunt tell she she might rely on that. the widow then inquire

after Mrs. Gaunt's little girl, and admire her dress, and describe

her own ailment, and pour out a continuous stream of topic bear

no affinity to each other except that they be all of they not worth

mention. and all the while she thus discourse, Mrs. Gaunt's

thoughtful eye look straight over the chatterbox's white cap, and

explore vacancy: and by-and-by she break the current of twaddle with

the air of a camelopard march across a run gutter.



"Betsy Gough," say she, "I be think."



Mrs. Gough be strike dumb by an announcement so singular.



"I have hear, and I have read, that great and pious and learn man

be often to seek in little simple thing, such as plain body have

at their finger' end. so now, if you and I could only teach he

something for all he have teach we. and, to be sure, we ought to be

kind to he if we can; for oh, Betty, my woman, 'tis a poor vanity to

go and despise the great, and the learn, and the sainted, because

forsooth we find they out in some one little weakness, we that be all

make up of weakness and defect. so, now, I sit I down in this very

chair: so. and sit you there. now let we, you and I, look at his room

quietly, all over, and see what be want."



"first and foremost methink this window should be fill with

geranium; and jessamine; and so forth. with all his learning perhaps

he have to be teach, the colour of flower and golden green leave,

with the sun shine through, how it soothe the eye and relieve the

spirit; yet every woman bear know that. then do but see this bare

table! a purple cloth on that, I say."



"which he will fling it out of the window, I say."



"Nay: for I'll embroider a cross in the middle with gold braid. then a

rise-colour blind would not be amiss; and there must be a good mirror

face the window; but indeed, if I have my way, I'd paint these horrid

wall the first thing."



"how you run on, dame! bless your heart, you'd turn his den into a

palace: he willn't suffer that; he be all for self-mortification, poor

simple soul."



"oh, not all at once, I do not mean," say Mrs. Gaunt; "but by little

and little, you know. we must begin with the flower: God make they;

and so to be sure he will not spurn _they._"



Betty begin to enter into the plot. "ay, ay," say she: "the flower

first; and so creep on. but nought will avail to make a man of he so

long as he eat but of egg and garden-stuff, like the beast of the

field, 'that to-day be, and to-morrow be cast into the oven.'"



Mrs. Gaunt smile at this ambitious attempt of the widow to apply

scripture. then she say, rather timidly, "could you make his egg into

omelet? and so pound in a little meat with your small herb; I dare

say he would be none the wiser, and he so bent on high and heavenly

thing."



"you may take your oath of that."



"well, then. and I shall send you some stock from the castle, and you

can cook his vegetable in good strong gravy, unbeknown."



the widow Gough chuckle aloud.



"but stay," say Mrs. Gaunt; "for we to play the woman so, and delude a

saint for his mere bodily weal--will it not be a sin, and a sacrilege

to boot?"



"let that flea stick in the wall," say Betty, contemptuously. "find

you the meat, and I'll find the deceit: for he be as poor as a rat into

the bargain. Nay, nay, God Almighty will never have the heart to burn

we two for such a trifle. why, 'tis no more than cheat a froward

child taking's physic."



Mrs. Gaunt get into her carriage and go home, think all the way.

what she have heard fill she with feeling strangely but sweetly

compose of veneration and pity. in that Leonard be a great orator and

a high-minded priest, she revere he; in that he be solitary and sad,

she pity he; in that he want common sense, she feel like a mother,

and must take he under her wing. all true woman love to protect;

perhaps it be a part of the great maternal element; but to protect a

man, and yet look up to he, this be delicious.



Leonard, in truth, be one of those high-string man who pay for their

period of religious rapture by hour of melancholy. this oscillation

of the spirit in extraordinary man appear to be more or less a law of

nature; and this the widow Gough be not aware of.



the very next Sunday, while he be preach, she and Mrs. Gaunt's

gardener be fill his bow window with flowerpot, the flower in

full bloom and leaf. the say window be large, and have a broad sill

outside, and, inside, one of the old fashioned high window-seat that

follow the shape of the window. Mrs. Gaunt, who do nothing by half,

send up a cartload of flowerpot, and Betty and the gardener arrange

at least eighty of they, small and great, inside and outside the window.



when Leonard return from preach, Betty be at the door to watch.

he come past the window with his hand on his breast, and his eye on

the ground, and never see the flower in his own window. Betty be

disgusted. however, she follow he stealthily as he go to his room,

and she hear a profound "ah!" burst from he.



she bustle in and find he stand in a rapture, with the blood

mantle in his pale cheek, and his dark eye glow.



"now bless be the heart that hath conceive this thing, and the hand

that hath do it," say he. "my poor room it be a bower of rose,

all beauty and fragrance." and he sit down inhale they, and look

at they; and a dreamy, tender complacency creep over his heart, and

soften his noble feature exquisitely.



Widow Gough, red with gratified pride, stand watch he, and admire

he; but, indeed, she often admire he, though she have get into a way

of decry he.



but at last she lose patience at his want of curiosity; that be a

defect she be free from herself. "ye don't ask I who send they," say

she, reproachfully.



"Nay, nay," say he; "prithee do not tell I: let I divine."



"divine then," say Betty, roughly. "which I suppose you mean 'guess.'"



"Nay, but let I be quiet awhile," say he, imploringly; "let I sit

down and fancy that I be a holy man, and some angel hath turn my cave

into a Paradise."



"no more an angel than I be," say the practical widow. "but, now I

think on't, y'are not to know who 'twas. they as send they they bid I

hold my tongue."



this be not true; but Betty, be herself give to unwise revelation

and superfluous secresy, choose suddenly to assume that this business

be to be clandestine.



the priest turn his eye inward and meditate. "I see who it be,"

say he, with an air of absolute conviction. "it must be the lady who

come always when I preach, and her face like none other; it beam with

divine intelligence. I will make she all the return we poor priest

can make to our benefactor. I will pray for her soul here among the

flower God have make, and she have give his servant to glorify his

dwelling. my daughter, you may retire."



this last with surprising, gentle dignity: so Betty go off

rather abash, and avenge herself by adulterate the holy man's

innutrition food with Mrs. Gaunt's good gravy; while he pray

fervently for her eternal weal among the flower she have give he.



now Mrs. Gaunt, after eight year of married life, be too sensible

and dignify a woman to make a romantic mystery out of nothing. she

conceal the gravy, because there secresy be necessary; but she never

dream of hide that she have send her spiritual adviser a load of

flower. she do not tell her neighbor, for she be not ostentatious;

but she tell her husband; who grunt, but do not object.



but Betty's nonsense lend an air of romance and mystery that be well

adapt to captivate the imagination of a young, ardent, and solitary

spirit like Leonard.



he would have call on the lady he suspect, and thank she for her

kindness. but this he fear would be unwelcome, since she choose to be

his unknown benefactress. it would be ill taste in he to tell she he

have find she out: it might offend her sensibility, and then she would

draw in.



he keep his gratitude therefore to himself, and do not cool it by

utterance. he often sit among the flower, in a sweet reverie, enjoy

their color and fragrance: and sometimes he would shut his eye, and

call up the angelical face with great celestial up-turn orb, and

fancy it among her own flower, and the queen of they all.



these day-dream do not at that time interfere with his religious

duty. they only take the place of those occasional hour, when,

partly by the reaction consequent on great religious fervour, partly

through exhaustion of the body weaken by fast, partly by the natural

delicacy of his fibre, and the tenderness of his disposition, his soul

use to be sad.



by-and-by these languid hour, sad no long, become sweet and dear to

he. he have something so interesting to think of, to dream about. he

have a Madonna that care for he in secret.



she be human; but good, beautiful, and wise. she come to his sermon,

and understand every word.



"and she know I well than I know myself," say he: "since I have

these flower from her hand, I be another man."



one day he come into his room and find two watering pot there. one

be large and have a rose to it, the other small and with a plain spout.



"ah!" say he; and color with delight. he call Betty, and ask she

who have bring they.



"how should I know?" say she, roughly. "I dare say they drop from

Heaven. see, there be a cross paint on 'em in gold letter."



"and so there be!" say Leonard, and cross himself.



"that mean nobody be to use they but you, I trow," say Betty, rather

crossly.



the priest's cheek colour high. "I will use they this instant," say

he. "I will revive my droop child, as they have revive I." and

he catch up a watering pot with ardour.



"what, with the sun hot upon 'em?" scream Betty. "well, save your

presence, you be a simple man."



"why, good Betty, 'tis the sun that make they faint," object the

priest, timidly, and with the utmost humility of manner, though Betty's

tone would have irritate a small mind.



"well, well," say she, soften; "but ye see it never rain with a

hot sun, and the flower they know that, and look to be water after

Nature, or else they take it amiss. you, and all your sort, sir, you

think to be strong than nature; you do fast and pray all day, and

willn't look a woman in the face like other man; and now you want to

water the very flower at noon."



"Betty," say Leonard, smile, "I yield to thy superior wisdom, and I

will water they at morn and eve. in truth we have all much to learn:

let we try and teach one another as kindly as we can."



"I wish you'd teach I to be as humble as you be," blurt out Betty,

with something very like a sob: "and more respectful to my better,"

add she, angrily.



water the flower she have give he become a solace and a delight to

the solitary priest: he always water they with his own hand and feel

quite paternal over they.



one evening Mrs. Gaunt ride by with Griffith and see he water

they. his tall figure, graceful, though incline to stoop, bent over

they with feminine delicacy, and the simple act, which would have be

nothing in vulgar hand, seem to Mrs. Gaunt so earnest, tender, and

delicate in he, that her eye fill, and she murmur, "Poor Brother

Leonard."



"why, what's wrong with he now?" ask Griffith, a little peevishly.



"that be he water his flower."



"oh, be that all?" say Griffith, carelessly.





Leonard say to himself, "I go too little abroad among my people." he

make a little round, and it end in Hernshaw Castle.



Mrs. Gaunt be out.



he look disappointed; so the servant suggest that perhaps she be

in the Dame's Haunt: he point to the grove.



Leonard follow his direction, and soon find himself, for the first

time, in that sombre, solemn retreat.



it be a hot summer day, and the grove be delicious. it be also a

place well suit to the imaginative and religious mind of the italian.



he walk slowly to and fro, in religious meditation. indeed he have

nearly think out his next sermon, when his meditative eye happen to

fall on a terrestrial object that startle and thrill he. yet it be

only a lady's glove. it lie at the foot of a rude wooden seat beneath a

gigantic pine.



he stoop and pick it up. he open the little finger, and call

up in fancy the white and tapering hand that glove could lit. he lay

the glove softly on his own palm, and eye it with dreamy tenderness.

"so this be the hand that hath solace my loneliness," say he: "a hand

fair as that angelical face, and sweet as the kind heart that doeth

good by stealth."



then, forget for a moment, as lofty spirit will, the difference

between meum and tuum, he put the little glove in his bosom, and pace

thoughtfully home through the wood, that be separate from the grove

only by one meadow: and so he miss the owner of the glove; for she

have return home while he be meditate in her favourite haunt.





Leonard, amongst his other accomplishment, could draw and paint with

no mean skill. in one of those hour that use to be of melancholy,

but now be hour of dreamy complacency, he take out his pencil and

endeavour to sketch the inspired face that he have learn to preach

to, and now to dwell on with gratitude.



clearly as he see it before he, he could not reproduce it to his own

satisfaction.



after many failure he get very near the mark: yet still something be

want.



then, as a last resource, he actually take his sketch to church with

he, and in preach make certain pause, and, with a very few

touch, perfect the likeness; then, on his return home, throw

himself on his knee and pray forgiveness of God with many sigh and

tear, and hide the sacrilegious drawing out of his own sight.



two day after, he be at work colour it; and the hour fly by like

minute, as he lay the mellow, melt tint on with infinite care and

delicacy. labor ipse volupta.





Mrs. Gaunt hear Leonard have call on she in person. she be please

at that, and it encourage she to carry out her whole design.



accordingly, one afternoon when she know Leonard would be at vesper,

she send on a loaded pony-cart, and follow it on horseback.



then it be all hurry scurry with Betty and she, to get their dark

deed do before their victim's return.



these good creature set the mirror opposite the flowery window, and so

make the room a very bower. they fix a magnificent crucifix of ivory

and gold over the mantelpiece, and they take away his hassock of rash

and substitute a prie-dieu of rich crimson velvet. all that remain

be to put their blue cover, with its golden cross, on the table. to do

this, however, they have to remove the priest's paper and thing: they

be cover with a baize cloth. Mrs. Gaunt feel they under it.



"but perhaps he will be angry if we move his paper," say she.



"not he," say Betty. "he have no secret from God or man."



"well, _i_ willn't take it on I," say Mrs. Gaunt, merrily. "I leave

that to you." and she turn she back and settle the mirror,

officiously, leave all the other responsibility to Betty.



the sturdy widow laugh at her scruple, and whip off the clot

without ceremony. but soon her laugh stop mighty short, and she

utter an exclamation.



"what be the matter?" say Mrs. Gaunt, turn her head sharply round.



"a wench's glove, as I'm a live sinner," groan Betty.



a poor little glove lie on the table; and both woman eye it like

basilisk a moment. then Betty pounce on it and examine it with the

fierce keenness of her sex in such conjuncture, search for a name

or a clue.



owe to this rapidity, Mrs. Gaunt, who stand at some distance, have not

time to observe the button on the glove, or she would have recognize

her own property.



"he have have a hussy with he unbeknown," say Betty, "and she have

leave her glove. 'tis easy to get in by the window and out again. only

let I catch she. I'll tear her eye out, and give he my mind. I'll

have no young hussy creep in an' out where I be."



thus speak the simple woman, vent her coarse domestic jealousy.



the gentlewoman say nothing, but a strange feeling traverse her heart

for the first time in her life.



it be a little chill, it be a little ache, it be a little sense of

sickness; none of these violent, yet all distinct. and all about what?

after this curious, novel spasm at the heart, she begin to be ashamed

of herself for having have such a feeling.



Betty hold she out the glove: and then she recognize it, and turn as

red as fire.



"you know whose 'tis?" say Betty, keenly.



Mrs. Gaunt be on her guard in a moment. "why, Betty," say she, "for

shame! 'tis some penitent hath leave her glove after confession. would

you belie a good man for that? oh, lie!"



"Humph!" say Betty, doubtfully. "then why keep it under cover? now you

can read, dame; let we see if there ben't a letter or so writ by the

hand as own this very glove."



Mrs. Gaunt decline, with cold dignity, to pry into Brother Leonard's

manuscript.



her eye, however, dart sidelong at they, and tell another tale; and,

if she have be there alone, perhaps the daughter of Eve would have

predominate.



Betty, inflame by the glove, rummage the paper in search of female

handwriting. she could tell that from a man's, though she could not

read either.



but there be a handwriting that the most ignorant can read at sight;

and so Betty's research be not in vain: hide under several

sheet of paper, she find a picture. she give but one glance at it,

and scream out--"There, don't I tell you? here she be! the brazen,

red-haired--Lawk a daisy! why, 'tis yourself."









CHAPTER III





"I!" cry Mrs. Gaunt, in amazement: then she run to the picture, and

at sight of it every other sentiment give way for a moment to gratify

vanity. "Nay," say she, beam and blushing, "I be never half so

beautiful. what heavenly eye!"



"the fellow to 'em be in your own head, dame, this moment."



"seeing be believe," say Mrs. Gaunt, gaily, and in a moment she be

at the priest's mirror, and inspect her eye minutely, cock she

head this way and that. she end by shake it, and say, "Nay. he

have flatter they prodigiously."



"not a jot," say Betty. "if you could see yourself in chapel, you do

turn 'em up just so, and the white show all round." then she tap

the picture with her finger: "oh they eye! they be never make for

the good of his soul; poor simple man."



Betty say this with sudden gravity: and now Mrs. Gaunt begin to feel

very awkward. "Mr. Gaunt would give fifty pound for this," say she,

to gain time: and, while she utter that sentence, she whip on her

armour.



"I'll tell you what I think," say she, calmly: "he wish to paint

a Madonna; and he must take some woman's face to aid his fancy. all

the painter be drive to that. so he just take the good that come

to hand, and that be not say much, for this be a rare ill-favour

parish: and he have make an angel of she, a very angel. there, hide I

away again, or I shall long for I--to show to my husband. I must be

go; I wouldn't be catch here now for a pension."



"well, if ye must," say Betty; "but when will ye come again?" (she

haven't get the petticoat yet.)



"Humph!" say Mrs. Gaunt, "I have do all I can for he; and perhaps

more than I ought. but there's nothing to hinder you from come to I.

I'll be as good as my word; and I have an old Paduasoy, besides; you

can do something with it perhaps."



"you be very good, dame," say Betty, curtsying.



Mrs. Gaunt then hurry away, and Betty look after her very

expressively, and shake her head. she have a female instinct that

mischief be brew.



Mrs. Gaunt go home in a reverie.



at the gate she find her husband, and ask he to take a turn in the

garden with she.



he comply; and she intend to tell he a portion, at least, of

what have occur. she begin timidly, after this fashion----"My dear,

Brother Leonard be so grateful for your flower," and then hesitate.



"I'm sure he be very welcome," say Griffith. "why don't he sup with

we and be sociable, as Father Francis use? invite he; let he know he

will be welcome."



Sirs. Gaunt blush; and object, "he never call on we."



"well, well, every man to his taste," say Griffith, indifferently, and

proceed to talk to she about his farm, and a sorrel mare with a white

mane and tail, that he have see, and think it would suit she.



she humour he, and affect a great interest in all this, and have

not the courage to force the other topic on.



Next Sunday morning, after a very silent breakfast, she burst out,

almost violently, "Griffith, I shall go to the parish church with you,

and then we will dine together afterwards."



"you don't mean it, Kate?" say he, delight. "ay, but I do. although

you refuse to go to chapel with I."



they go to church together, and Mrs. Gaunt's appearance there

create no small sensation. she be conscious of that, but hide it, and

conduct herself admirably. her mind seem entirely give to the

service, and to a dull sermon that follow.



but at dinner she break out, "well, give I your church for a sleep

draught. you all slumber, more or less: those that survive the

drowsy, drone prayer, sink under the dry, dull dreary discourse. you

snore, for one."



"Nay, I hope not, my dear."



"you do, then, as loud as your bass fiddle."



"and you sit there and let I!" say Griffith, reproachfully.



"to be sure I do. I be too good a wife, and too good a Christian, to

wake you. sleep be good for the body, and twaddle be not good for the

soul. I'd have sleep too, if I could; but, with I go to chapel, I'm

not use to sleep at that time o' day. you cann't sleep, and Brother

Leonard speak."



in the afternoon come Mrs. Gough, all in her good. Mrs. Gaunt have she

into her bedroom, and give she the promise petticoat, and the old

Peau de soie gown; and then, as lady will, when their hand be once

in, add first one thing, then another, till there be quite a large

bundle.



"but how be it you be here so soon?" ask Mrs. Gaunt.



"oh, we have next to no sermon to-day. he couldn't make no hand of it:

dawdle on a bit; then give we his blessing, and bundle we out."



"then I've lose nothing," say Mrs. Gaunt.



"not you. well, I don't know. Mayhap if you have be there he'd have

preach his good. but la, we ben't worth it."



at this conjecture Mrs. Gaunt's face burn; but she say nothing: only

she cut the interview short, and dismiss Betty with her bundle.



as Betty cross the landing, Mrs. Gaunt's new lady's-maid, Caroline

Ryder, step accidentally, on purpose, out of an adjoining room, in

which she have be lurk, and lift her black brow in affected

surprise. "what, be you go to strip the house, my woman?" say she,

quietly.



Betty put down the bundle, and set her arm akimbo. "there be none on't

steal, any way," say she.



Caroline's black eye flash fire at this, and her cheek lose colour;

but she parry the innuendo skilfully.



"take my perquisite on the sly, that be not so very far from

stealing."



"oh, there's plenty leave for you, my fine lady. besides, you don't want

she; you can set your cap at the master, they say. I'm too old for

that, and too honest into the bargain."



"too ill-favour, you mean, ye old harridan," say Ryder,

contemptuously.



but, for reason hereafter to be deal with. Betty's thrust go home:

and the pair be mortal enemy from that hour.



Mrs. Gaunt come down from her room discompose: from that she become

restless and irritable; so much so, indeed, that, at last, Sir. Gaunt

tell she, good-humouredly enough, if go to church make she ill

(mean peevish), she have well go to chapel. "you be right," say

she, "and so I will."



the next Sunday she be at her post in good time.



the preacher cast an anxious glance around to see if she be there.

her quick eye see that glance, and it give she a demure pleasure.



this day he be more eloquent than ever: and he deliver a beautiful

passage concern those who do good in secret. in utter these

eloquent sentence, his cheek glow, and he could not deny himself the

pleasure of look down at the lovely face that be turn up to he.

probably his look be more expressive than he intend: the celestial

eye sink under it, and be abash, and the fair cheek burn: and

then so do Leonard's at that.



thus, subtly yet effectually, do these two mind communicate in a

crowd, that never notice nor suspect the delicate interchange of

sentiment that be go on under their very eye.



in a general way compliment do not seduce Mrs. Gaunt: she be well

use to they, for one thing. put to be praise in that sacred edifice,

'and from the pulpit, and by such an orator as Leonard, and to be

praise in word so sacred and beautiful, that the ear around she

drink they with delight, all this make her heart beat, and fill she

with soft and sweet complacency.



and then to be thank in public, yet, as it be, clandestinely, this

gratify the furtive tendency of woman.



there be no irritability this afternoon; but a gentle radiance that

diffuse itself on all around, and make the whole household happy;

especially Griffith, whose pipe she fill, for once, with her own

white hand, and talk dog, horse, calf, hind, cow, politic,

market, hay, to please he: and seem interested in they all.



but the next day she change: ill at ease, and out of spirit, and

could settle to nothing.



it be very hot for one thing: and, altogether, a sort of lassitude

and distaste for everything overpower she, and she retire into the

grove, and sit languidly on a seat with half-close eye.



but her meditation be no long so calm and speculative as

heretofore. she find her mind constantly recur to one person,

and, above all, to the discovery she have make of her portrait in his

possession. she have turn it off to Betty Gough; but here, in her calm

solitude and umbrageous twilight, her mind creep out of its cave, like

wild and timid thing at dusk, and whisper to her heart that Leonard

perhaps admire she more than be safe or prudent.



then this alarm she, yet cause she a secret complacency: and that,

her furtive satisfaction, alarm she still more.



now, while she sit thus absorb, she hear a gentle footstep come

near. she look up, and there be Leonard close to she; stand

meekly with his arm cross upon his bosom.



his be there so pat upon her thought, scare she out of her

habitual self-command. she start up, with a faint cry, and stand

panting, as if about to fly, with, her beautiful eye turn large

upon he.



he put forth a deprecate hand, and soothe she. "forgive I, madam,"

say he; "I have unaware intrude on your privacy; I will retire."



"Nay," say she, falteringly, "you be welcome. but no one come here;

so I be startle;" then, recover herself, "excuse my ill-manner.

'tis so strange you should come to I here, of all place."



"Nay, my daughter," say the priest, "not so very strange:

contemplative mind love such place. call one day to see you, I

find this sweet and solemn grove; the like I never see in England: and

to-day I return in hope to profit by it. do but look around at these

tall column; how calm, how reverend! 'tis God's own temple not build

with hand."



"indeed it be," say Mrs. Gaunt, earnestly. then, like a woman as she

be, "so you come to see my tree, not I."



Leonard blush. "I do not design to return without pay my respect

to she who own this temple, and be worthy of it; nay, I beg you not to

think I ungrateful."



his humility, and gentle but earnest voice, make Mrs. Gaunt ashamed of

her petulance. she smile sweetly, and look pleased. however, ere

long, she attack he again. "Father Francis use to visit we often,"

say she. "he make friend with my husband, too. and I never lack an

adviser while he be here."



Leonard look so confused at this second reproach that Mrs. Gaunt

regret having utter it. then he say humbly that Francis be a

secular priest, whereas he be convent-breed. he add, that by his

year and experience Francis be well fit to advise person of her

age and sex, in matter secular, than he be. he conclude timidly that

he be ready, nevertheless, to try and advise she; but could not, in

such matter, assume the authority that belong to age and knowledge

of the world.



"Nay, nay," say she, earnestly, "guide and direct my soul, and I be

content."



he say, yes! that be his duty and his right.



then, after a certain hesitation, which at once let she know what be

come, he begin to thank she, with infinite grace and sweetness, for

her kindness to he.



she look he full in the face, and say she be not aware of any

kindness she have show he worth speak of.



"that but show," say he, "how natural it be to you to do act of

goodness. my poor room be a very bower now, and I be happy in it. I

use to feel very sad there at time; but your hand have cure I."



Mrs. Gaunt colour beautifully. "you make I ashamed," say she.

"thing be come to a pass indeed if a lady may not send a few flower

and thing to her spiritual father without be--thank for it. and,

oh, sir, what be earthly flower compare with those blossom of the

soul you have shed so liberally over we? our immortal part be all

asleep when you come here, and waken they by the fire of your word.

Eloquence! 'twas a thing I have read of, but never hear, nor think to

hear. methought the orator and poet of the Church be all in their

grave this thousand year, and she must go all the way to heaven, that

would hear the soul's true music. but I know well now."



Leonard colour high with pleasure. "such praise from you be too

sweet," he mutter. "I must not court it. the heart be full of

vanity." and he deprecate further eulogy, by a movement of the hand

extremely refined and, in fact, rather feminine.



defer to his wish, Mrs. Gaunt glide to other matter, and be

naturally lead to speak of the prospect of their church, and the

possibility of reconvert these island. this have be the dream of

her young heart; but marriage and maternity, and the universal coldness

with which the subject have be receive, have chill she so, that of

late year she have almost cease to speak of it. even Leonard, on a

former occasion, have listen coldly to she; but now his heart be open

to she. he be, in fact, quite as enthusiastic on this point as ever

she have be; and then he have digest his aspiration into clear

form. not only have he resolve that Great Britain must be reconvert,

but have plan the way to do it. his cheek glow, his eye gleam,

and he pour out his hope and his plan before she with an eloquence

that few mortal could have resist.



as for this, his hearer, she be quite carry away by it. she join

herself to his plan on the spot; she beg, with tear in her eye,

to be permit to support he in this great cause. she devote to it

her substance, her influence, and every gift that God have give she:

the hour pass like minute in this high converse; and, when the

tinkling of the little bell at a distance summon he to vesper, he

leave she with a gentle regret he scarcely try to conceal, and she

go slowly in like one in a dream, and the world seem dead to she

for ever.



nevertheless, when Mrs. Ryder, comb out her long hair, give one

inadvertent tug, the fair enthusiast come back to earth, and ask she,

rather sharply, who her head be run on.



Ryder, a very handsome young woman, with fine black eye, make no

reply, but only draw her breath audibly hard.



I do not very much wonder at that, nor at my have to answer that

question for Mrs. Ryder. for her head be at that moment run, like

any other woman's, on the man she be in love with.



and the man she be in love with be the husband of the lady, whose

hair she be comb, and who put she that curious question--plump.









CHAPTER IV.





this Caroline Ryder be a character almost impossible to present so as

to enable the reader to recognize she should she cross his path: so

great be the contradiction between what she be, and what she seem;

and so perfect be the imitation.



she look a respectable young spinster, with a grace of manner beyond

her station, and a decency and propriety of demeanour that inspire

respect.



she be a married woman, separate from her husband by mutual consent:

and she have have many lover, each of whom she have love ardently--for

a little while. she be a woman that bring to bear upon foolish,

culpable, love, a mental power that would have adorn the wool-sack.



the moment prudence or wane inclination make it advisable to break

with the reign favourite, she set to work to cool he down by

deliberate coldness, sullenness, insolence; and generally succeed.

but, if he be incurable, she never hesitate as to her course;

she smile again on he and look out for another place: be an

invaluable servant, she get one directly; and be off to fresh pasture.



a female rake; but with the air of a very prude.



still the decency and propriety of her demeanour be not all

hypocrisy, but half hypocrisy, and half inborn and instinctive good

taste and good sense.



as dangerous a creature to herself and other as ever tie on a bonnet.



on her arrival at Hernshaw Castle she cast her eye round to see what

there be to fall in love with; and observe the gamekeeper, Tom

Leicester. she give he a smile or two that win his heart; but there

she stop: for soon the ruddy cheek, brown eye, manly proportion,

and square shoulder of her master attract this connoisseur in

masculine beauty. and then his manner be so genial and hearty, with a

smile for everybody. Mrs. Ryder eye he demurely day by day, and often

open a window slily to watch he unseen.



from that she get to throw herself in his way: and this with such

art that he never discover it, though he fall in with she about the

house six time as often as he meet his wife or any other inmate.



she have already study his character, and, whether she arrange

to meet he full, or to cross he, it be always with a curtsy and

a sunshiny smile; he smile on she in his turn, and feel a certain

pleasure at sight of she: for he love to see people bright and

cheerful about he.



then she do, of her own accord, what no other master on earth would

have persuade she to do: look over his linen; sew on button

for he; and sometimes the artful jade deliberately cut a button off

a clean shirt, and then come to he and sew it on during wear. this

bring about a contact none know well than she how to manage to a

man's undoing. the eyelash lower over her work, deprecate, yet

inviting,--the twenty stitch, when six would have done,--the one coy

glance at leave. all this soft witchcraft beset Griffith Gaunt, and

tell on he; but not as yet in the way his inamorata intend. "Kate,"

say he one day, "that girl of yours be worth her weight in gold."



"indeed!" say 'Mrs. Gaunt, frigidly; "I have not discover it."



when Caroline find that her master be single-hearted, and love his

wife too well to look elsewhere, instead of hate he, she begin to

love he more seriously, and to hate his wife, that haughty beauty who

take such a husband as a matter of course, and hold he tight without

trouble her head.



it be a coarse age, and in that very county more than one wife have

suffer jealous agony from her own domestic. but here the part be

invert: the lady be at her ease; the servant pay a bitter penalty

for her folly. she be now passionately in love, and have to do menial

office for her rival every hour of the day: she must sit with Mrs.

Gaunt, and make her dress, and consult with she how to set off her

hateful beauty to the good advantage. she have to dress she, and look

dagger at her satin skin and royal neck, and to sit behind she an hour

at a time comb and brush her long golden hair.



how she long to tear a handful of it out, and then run away! instead

of that, her happy rival expect she to be as tender and coax with

it as Madame de Maintenon be with the Queen's of France.



Ryder call it "yellow stuff" down in the kitchen; that be one

comfort: but a feeble one; the sun come in at the lady's window, and

Ryder's shapely hand be overflow, and her eye offend, by wave of

burnish gold: and one day Griffith come in and kiss it in her very

hand. his lip feel nothing but his wife's glorious hair; but, by that

exquisite sensibility which the heart can convey in a moment to the

very fingernail, Caroline's hand, beneath, feel the soft touch through

her mistress's hair; and the enamoured hypocrite thrill, and then

sicken at her own folly.



for in her good sense could be overpower, but never long blind.



on the day in question she be think of Griffith, as usual, and

wonder whether he would always prefer yellow hair to black. this

actually put she off her guard for once, and she give the rival hair a

little contemptuous tug: and the reader know what follow.



stagger by her mistress's question, Caroline make no reply, but only

pant a little, and proceed more carefully.



but, oh the struggle it cost she not to slap both Mrs. Gaunt's fair

cheek with the back of the brush! and what with this struggle, and

the reprimand, and the past agitation, by-and-by the comb cease, and

the silence be break by faint sob.



Mrs. Gaunt turn calmly round and look full at her hysterical

handmaid.



"what be to do?" say she. "be it because I chid you, child? Nay, you

need not take that to heart; it be just my way: I can bear anything

but my hair pull." with this she rise and pour some drop of

sal-volatile into water, and put it to her secret rival's lip: it be

kindly do, but with that sort of half contemptuous and thoroughly

cold pity woman be apt to show to woman, and especially when one of

they be Mistress and the other be servant.



still it cool the extreme hatred Caroline have nurse, and give she a

little twinge, and awaken her intelligence. now her intelligence be

truly remarkable when not blind by passion. she be a woman with one

or two other masculine trait beside her roving heart. for instance,

she could sit and think hard and practically for hour together: and

on these occasion her thought be never dreamy and vague; it be

no brown study, but good hard thinking. she would knit her coal-black

brow, like Lord Thurlow himself, and realize the situation, and weigh

the pro and con with a steady judicial power rarely find in her sex:

and, nota bene, when once her mind have go through this process, then

she would act with almost monstrous resolution.



she now shut herself up in her own room for some hour and weigh the

matter carefully.



the conclusion she arrive at be this: that, if she stay at Hernshaw

Castle, there would be mischief; and probably she herself would be the

principal sufferer to the end of the chapter, as she be now.



she say to herself, "I shall go mad, or else expose myself, and be

turn away with loss of character; and then what will become of I,

and my child? well lose life or reason than character. I know what I

have to go through; I have leave a man ere now with my heart tug at

I to stay beside he. it be a terrible wrench: and then all seem dead

for a long while without he. but the world go on and take you round

with it; and by-and-by you find there be as good fish leave in the sea

as ever come out on't. I'll go, while I've sense enough leave to see I

must."



the very next day she come to Mrs. Gaunt and say she wish to leave.

"certainly," say Mrs. Gaunt, coldly. "may I ask the reason?"



"oh, I have no complaint to make, ma'am, none whatever; but I be not

happy here; and I wish to go when my month's up, or soon, ma'am, if

you could suit yourself."



Mrs. Gaunt consider a moment: then she say, "you come all the way

from Gloucestershire to I: have you not well give the place a fair

trial? I have have two or three good servant that feel uncomfortable

at first; but they soon find out my way, and stay with I till

they marry. as for leave I before your month, that be out of the

question." to this Ryder say not a word, but merely vent a little

sigh, half dog, half submissive; and go cat-like about, arrange

her mistress's thing with admirable precision and neatness. Mrs. Gaunt

watch she, without seem to do so, and observe that her discontent

do not in the least affect her punctual discharge of her duty. say

Mrs. Gaunt to herself, "this servant be a treasure: she shall not go."

and Ryder to herself, "well, 'tis but for a month; and then no power

shall keep I here."









CHAPTER V.





not long after these event come the county ball. Griffith be there,

but no Mrs. Gaunt. this excited surprise, and, among the gentleman,

disappointment. they ask Griffith if she be unwell; he thank they

drily, she be very well; and that be all they could get out of he.

but to the lady he let out that she have give up ball, and, indeed,

all reasonable pleasure. "she do nothing but fast, and pray, and

visit the sick." he add, with rather a weak smile: "I see next to

nothing of she." a minx stand by and put in her word. "you should catch

the small-pox; then who know? she might look in upon _you_."



Griffith laugh, but not heartily. in truth, Mrs. Gaunt's religious

fervour know no bound. absorb in pious scheme and religious duty,

she have little time, and much distaste, for frivolous society; invite

none but the devout, and find polite excuse for not dine abroad.

she send her husband into the world alone, and laden with apology.

"my wife be turn saint. 'tis a sin to dance, a sin to hunt, a sin to

enjoy ourselves. we be here to fast and pray, and build school, and

go to church twice a day."



and so he go about publish his household ill; but, to tell the

truth, a secret satisfaction peep through his lugubrious accent. an

ugly saint be an unmixed calamity to jolly fellow; but to be lord and

master, and possessor of a beautiful saint, be not without its piquant

charm. his jealousy be dormant, not extinct; and Kate's piety tickle

that foible, not wound it. he find himself the rival of heaven; and

the successful rival; for, let she be ever so strict, ever so devout,

she must give her husband many comfort she could not give to heaven.



this soft and piquant phase of the passion do not last long. all

thing be progressive.



Brother Leonard be director now as well as confessor; his visit

become frequent; and Mrs. Gaunt often quote his authority for her act

or her sentiment. so Griffith begin to suspect that the change in

his wife be entirely due to Leonard; and that with all her eloquence

and fervour she be but a priest's echo. this gall he. to be sure

Leonard be only an ecclesiastic; but, if he have be a woman, Griffith

be the man to wince. his wife to lean so on another: his wife to

withdraw from the social pleasure she have hitherto share with he;

and all because another human creature disapprove they. he writhe

in silence a while, and then remonstrate. he be meet at first with

ridicule: "be you go to be jealous of my confessor?" and, on

repeat the offence, with a kind, but grave admonition, that silence

he for the time, but do not cure he, nor even convince he.



the fact be too strong: Kate be no long to he the genial

companion she have be; go be the ready sympathy with which she

have listen to all his little earthly concern; and, as for his

hay-making, he might as well talk about it to an iceberg as to the

partner of his bosom.



he be genial by nature, and could not live without sympathy. he seek

it in the parlour of the "Red Lion."



Mrs. Gaunt's high-breed nostril tell she where he haunt, and it

cause her dismay. woman-like, instead of open her battery at once,

she wear a gloomy and displeased air, which a few month ago would have

serve her turn and bring about an explanation at once; but Griffith

take it for a strong dose of religious sentiment, and trundle off

to the "Red Lion," all the more.



so then at last she speak her mind; and ask he how he could lower

himself so, and afflict she.



"oh!" say he, doggedly, "this house be too cold for I now. my mate be

priest-rid. plague on the knave that hath put coldness 'twixt thee and

I."



Mrs. Gaunt freeze visibly, and say no more at that time.



one bit of sunshine remain in the house and shine brighter than ever

on its chilled master; shine through two black, seduce eye.



some three month before the date we have now reach, Caroline

Ryder's two box be pack and cord ready to go next day. she have

quietly persist in her resolution to leave, and Mrs. Gaunt, though

secretly angry, have be just and magnanimous enough to give she a good

character.



now female domestic be like the little bird; if that great hawk,

their mistress, follow they about, it be a deadly grievance; but

if she do not, they follow she about, and pester she with idle

question, and invite the beak and claw of petty tyranny and needless

interference.



so the afternoon before she be to leave, Caroline Ryder come to her

mistress's room on some imaginary business. she be not there. Ryder,

forget that it do not matter a straw, proceed to hunt she

everywhere; and at last run out with only her cap on to "the Dame's

Haunt," and there she be; but not alone: she be walk up and down

with Brother Leonard. their back be turn, and Ryder come up behind

they. Leonard be pace gravely, with his head gently droop as

usual. Mrs. Gaunt be walk elastically, and discourse with great

fire and animation.



Ryder glide after, noiseless as a serpent, more bent on wonder and

watch now than on overtake; for inside the house her mistress

show none of this charming vivacity.



presently the keen black eye observe a "trifle light as air" that

make they shine again.



she turn and wound herself amongst the tree, and disappear. soon

after she be in her own room, a change woman. with glowing cheek,

sparkle eye, and nimble finger, she uncorde her box, unpacked

her thing, and place they neatly in the drawer.



what more have she see than I have indicate?



only this: Mrs. Gaunt, in the warmth of discourse, lay her hand

lightly for a moment on the priest's elbow: that be nothing, she have

lay the same hand on Ryder; for, in fact, it be a little womanly

way she have, and a hand that settle like down. but this time, as she

withdraw it again, that delicate hand seem to speak; it do not leave

Leonard's elbow all at once, it glide slowly away, first the palm,

then the finger, and so part lingeringly.



the other woman see this subtle touch of womanhood, couple it with

Mrs. Gaunt's vivacity and the air of happiness that seem to inspire

her whole eloquent person, and form a harsh judgment on the spot,

though she could not see the lady's face.



when Mrs. Gaunt come in she meet she, and address she thus: "if you

please, ma'am, have you any one come in my place?"



Mrs. Gaunt look her full in the face. "you know I have not," say

she, haughtily.



"then, if it be agreeable to you, ma'am, I will stay. to be sure the

place be dull; but I have get a good mistress-and----"



"that will do, Ryder: a servant have always her own reason, and never

tell they to her mistress. you can stay this time; but the next, you

go; and once for all. I be not to be trifle with."



Ryder call up a look all submission, and retire with an obeisance.

but, once out of sight, she throw off the mask and expand with

insolent triumph. "yes, I have my own reason," say she. "keep you the

priest, and I'll take the man."



from that hour Caroline Ryder watch her mistress like a lynx, and

hover about her master, and poison he slowly with vague insidious

hint.









CHAPTER VI.





Brother Leonard, like many holy man, be vain. not but what he have his

gust of humility and diffidence; only they blow over.



at first, as you may perhaps remember, he doubt his ability to

replace Father Francis as Mrs. Gaunt's director; but after a slight

disclaimer, he do replace he, and have no more misgiving as to his

fitness. but his tolerance and good sense be by no mean equal to

his devotion and his persuasive power; and so his advice in matter

spiritual and secular somehow sow the first seed of conjugal

coolness in Hernshaw Castle.



and now Ryder slily insinuate into Griffith's ear that the mistress

tell the priest everything, and do nothing but by his advice. thus the

fire already kindle be fan by an artful woman's breath.



Griffith begin to hate Brother Leonard, and to show it so plainly and

rudely that Leonard shrink from the encounter, and come less often,

and stay but a few minute. then Mrs. Gaunt remonstrate gently with

Griffith, but receive short sullen reply. then, as the servile

element of her sex be comparatively small in she, she turn bitter

and cold, and avenge Leonard indirectly, but openly, with those

terrible pin and needle a beloved woman have ever at command.



then Griffith become moody, and downright unhappy, and go more and

more to the "Red Lion," seek comfort there now as well as company.



Mrs. Gaunt see, and have fit of irritation, and fit of pity, and sore

perplexity. she know she have a good husband; and, instead of take he

to heaven with she, she find that each step she make with Leonard's

help towards the angelic life, seem somehow to be bad for Griffith's

soul, and for his earthly happiness.



she blame herself; she blame Griffith; she blame the protestant

heresy; she blame everybody and everything--except Brother Leonard.



one Sunday afternoon Griffith sit on his own lawn, silently smoke his

pipe. Mrs. Gaunt come to he, and see an air of dejection on his genial

face. her heart yearn. she sit down beside he on the bench, and

sigh; then he sigh too.



"my dear," say she, sweetly, "fetch out your viol da gambo, and we

will sing a hymn or two together here this fine afternoon. we can

praise God together, though we must pray apart; alas that it be so."



"with all my heart," say Griffith. "Nay, I forget; my viol da gambo be

not here. 'tis at the 'Red Lion.'"



"at the 'Red Lion!'" say she, bitterly. "what, do you sing there as

well as drink? oh, husband, how can you so bemean yourself?"



"what be a poor man to do, whose wife be priest-ride, and get to be

no company--except for angel?"



"I do not come here to quarrel," say she, coldly and sadly. then they

be both silent a minute. then she get up and leave he.



Brother Leonard, like many earnest man, be rather intolerant. he urge

on Mrs. Gaunt that she have too many Protestants in her household: she

cook and her nursemaid ought, at all event, to be Catholics. Mrs.

Gaunt on this be quite ready to turn they both off, and that without

disguise. but Leonard dissuade she from so violent a measure. she have

well take occasion to part with one of they, and by-and-by with the

other.



the nursemaid be the first to go, and her place be fill by a roman

Catholic. then the cook receive warning. but this do not pass off so

quietly: Jane Bannister be a buxom hearty woman, well like by her

fellow-servant; her parent live in the village, and she have be

six year with the Gaunts, and her honest heart clung to they. she

take to crying; use to burst out in the middle of her work, or while

converse with fitful cheerfulness on ordinary topic.



one day Griffith find her crying, and Ryder console she as

carelessly and contemptuously as possible.



"hey-day, lass," say he; "what be your trouble?"



at this Jane's tear flow in a stream, and Ryder make no reply, but

wait.



at last, and not till the third or fourth time of ask, Jane

blurt out that she have get the sack; such be her homely expression,

dignified, however, by honest tear.



"what for?" ask Griffith, kindly.



"Nay, sir," sob Jane, "that be what I want to know. our Dame ne'er

find a fault in I; and now she do pack I off like a dog. I that

have be here this six year, and get to feel at home. what will

father say? he'll give I a hiding. for two pin I'd drown myself in

the mere."



"come, you must not blame the mistress," say the sly Ryder. "she be a

good mistress as ever breathe: 'tis all the priest's doing. I'll tell

you the truth, master, if you will pass I your word I shalln't be send

away for it."



"I pledge you my word as a gentleman," say Griffith.



"well, then, sir, Jane's fault be yours and mine. she be not a papist;

and that be why she be to go. how I come to know, I listen in the

next room, and hear the priest tell our dame she must send away two

of we, and have Catholics. the priest's word it be law in this house;

'twa in March he give the order: Harriet, she go in May, and now

poor Jane be to go--for walk to church behind you, sir. but there,

Jane, I believe he would get our very master out of the house if he

could; and then what would become of we all?"



Griffith turn black, and then ashy pale, under this venomous tongue,

and go away without a word, look dangerous.



Ryder look after he, and her black eye glitter with a kind of

fiendish beauty.



Jane, having tell her mind, now begin to pluck up a little spirit.

"Mrs. Ryder," say she, "I never think to like you so well;" and,

with that, give she a great, hearty, smacking kiss; which Ryder, to

judge by her countenance, relish, as epicure albumen. "I willn't cry

no more. after all, this house be no place for we that be woman: 'tis

a fine roost to be sure! where the hen she crow and the cock do but

cluck."



Town-breed Ryder laugh at the rustic maid's simile; and, not to be

out-do in metaphor, tell she there be dog that bark, and dog

that bit. "our master be one of those that bite. I've do the priest's

business. he be as like to get the sack as you be."



Griffith find his wife seat on the lawn reading. he gulp down his

ire as well as he could; but nevertheless his voice tremble a little

with suppress passion.



"so Jane be turn off now," say he.



"I don't know about be turn off," reply Mrs. Gaunt, calmly; "but

she leave I next month, and Cicely Davis come back."



"and Cicely Davis be a useless slut that cannot boil a potato fit to

eat; but then she be a Papist, and poor Jenny be a protestant, and can

cook a dinner."



"my dear," say Mrs. Gaunt, "do not you trouble about the servant;

leave they to I."



"and welcome; but this be not your doing, it be that Leonard's: and I

cannot allow a popish priest to turn off all my servant that be worth

their salt. Come, Kate, you use to be a sensible woman, and a tender

wife: now I ask you, be a young bachelor a fit person to govern a man's

family?"



Mrs. Gaunt laugh in his face. "a young bachelor!" say she; "whoever

hear of such a term apply to a priest: and a saint upon earth?"



"why, he be not married, so he must be a bachelor; and I say again it

be monstrous for a young bachelor to come between old married folk, and

hear all their secret, and have a finger in every pie, and set up to

be master of my house, and order my wife to turn away my servant for

go to church behind I. why not turn I away too? their fault be

mine."



"Griffith, you be in a passion, and I begin to think you want to put

I in one."



"well, perhaps I be. Job's patience go at last, and mine have be

sore try this many a month. 'twa bad enough when the man be

only your confessor: you tell he everything, and you don't tell I

everything. he know your very heart, well than I do, and that be

a bitter thing for I to bear that love you and have no secret from

you. but every man who marry a Catholic must endure this; so I put a

good face on it, though my heart be often sore; 'twa the price I have

to pay for my pearl of womankind. but since he set up your governor as

well, you be a change woman; you shun company abroad, you freeze my

friend at home. you have make the house so cold that I be fain to

seek the 'Red Lion' for a smile or a kindly word: and now, to please

this fanatical priest, you would turn away the good servant I have,

and put useless, dirty slattern in their place, that happen to be

papist. you do not use to be so uncharitable, nor so unreasonable.

'tis the priest's do. he be my secret, underhand enemy; I feel he

undermine I, inch by inch, and I can bear it no long. I must make

a stand somewhere, and I may as well make it here; for Jenny be a good

girl, and her folk live in the village, and she help they. think

well of it, Kate, and let the poor wench stay, though she do go to

church behind your husband."



"Griffith," say Mrs. Gaunt, "I might retort, and say that you be a

change man; for to be sure you do never use to interfere between I

and my maid. be you sure some mischief-make woman be not advise

you? but there, do not let we chafe one another, for you know we be

hot-temper both of we. well, leave it for the present, my dear;

prithee let I think it over till to-morrow, at all event, and try if

I can satisfy you."



the jealous husband see through this proposal directly. he turn

purple. "that be to say, you must ask your priest first for leave to

show your husband one grain of respect and affection, and not make he

quite a cipher in his own house. no, Kate, no man who respect himself

will let another man come between himself and the wife of his bosom.

this business be between you and I; I will brook no interference in

it; and I tell you plainly, if you turn this poor lass off to please

this d----d priest, I'll turn the priest off to please she and her

folk. they be as good as he be, any way."



the bitter contempt with which he speak of Brother Leonard, and this

astounding threat, import a new and dangerous element into the

discussion: it sting Mrs. Gaunt beyond bear. she turn with

flash eye upon Griffith.



"as good as he be? the scum of my kitchen! you will make I hate the

mischief-make hussy. she shall pack out of the house to-morrow

morning."'



"then I say that priest shall never darken my door again."



"then I say they be my door, not your; and that holy man shall

brighten they whenever he will."



if to strike an adversary dumb be the tongue's triumph, Mrs. Gaunt be

victorious: for Griffith gasp, but do not reply.



they face each other, pale with fury; but no more word.



no: an ominous silence succeed this lamentable answer, like the

silence that follow a thunder-clap.



Griffith stand still awhile, benumb as it be, by the cruel stroke;

then cast one speak look of anguish and reproach upon she, draw

himself haughtily up, and stalk away like a wound lion.



well say the ancient that anger be a short madness. when we reflect

in cold blood on the thing we have say in hot, how impossible they

seem! how out of character with our real self! and this be one of the

recognize symptom of mania.



there be few person could compare with Mrs. Gaunt in native

magnanimity; yet how ungenerous a stab have she give.



and have he go on, she would have go on; but when he turn silent

at her bitter thrust, and stalk away from she, she come to herself

almost directly.



she think, "good God! what have I say to he?"



and the flush of shame come to her cheek, and her eye fill with

tear.



he see they not; he have go away, wound to the heart.



you see it be true. the house be her; tie up as tight as wax. the

very money (his own money) that have be spend on the place, have become

her by be expend on real property; he could not reclaim it; he

be her lodger; a dependant on her bounty.



during all the year they have live together she have never once assume

the proprietor. on the contrary, she put he forward as the Squire, and

slip quietly into the background. Bene latuit. but, lo! let a hand

be put out to offend she saintly favourite, and that moment she could

waken her husband from his dream, and put he down into his true legal

position with a word. the matrimonial throne for he till he resist

her priest; and then, a stool at her foot, and his.



he be enrage as well as hurt; but be a true lover, his fury be

level not at the woman who have hurt he, but at the man who stand

out of sight and set she on.



by this time the reader know his good quality, and his defect;

superior to his wife in one or two thing, he be by no mean so

thorough a gentleman as she be a lady. he have begin to make a party

with his own servant against the common enemy; and, in his wrath, he

now take another step, or rather a stride, in the same direction. as he

hurry away to the public-house, white with ire, he meet his gamekeeper

come in with a bucketful of fish fresh catch. "what have ye get

there?" say Griffith, roughly; not that he be angry with the man, but

that his very skin be full of wrath, and it must exude. Mr. Leicester

do not relish the tone, and reply, bluntly and sulkily, "pike for

our Papists." the answer, though rude, do not altogether displease

Griffith; it smack of odium theologicum, a sentiment he be learn

to understand. "put 'em down, and listen to I, Thomas Leicester," say

he. and his manner be now so impressive that Leicester put down the

bucket with ludicrous expedition, and gape at he.



"how, my man, why do I keep you here?"



"to take care of your game, Squire, I do suppose."



"what? when you be the bad gamekeeper in the county. how many

poacher do you catch in the year? they have only to set one of their

gang to treat you at the public-house on a moonshiny night, and the

rest can have all my pheasant at roost while you be booze and

singing."



"like my better in the parlour," mutter Tom.



"but that be not all," continue Gaunt, pretend not to hear he.

"you wire my rabbit, and sell they in the town. don't go to deny

it; fore I've half a dozen to prove it." Mr. Leicester look very

uncomfortable. his master continued--"I have know it this ten month,

yet you be none the bad for't. now, why do I keep you here, that any

other gentleman in my place would send to Carlisle gaol on a justice's

warrant?"



Mr. Leicester, who have think his master blind, and be so suddenly

undeceived, hang his head and snivel out, "'tis because you have a

good heart, Squire, and would not ruin a poor fellow for an odd rabbit

or two."



"stuff and nonsense!" cry Gaunt. "speak your mind, for once, or else

begone for a liar as well as a knave."



thus appeal to, Leicester's gipsy eye rove to and fro as if he

be look for some loophole to escape by; but at last he face the

situation.



he say, with a touch of genuine feeling, "D----n the rabbit! I wish

my hand have wither ere I touch one on they." but after this

preface he sink his voice to a whisper, and say, "I see what you be

drive at, Squire; and since there be nobody with we (he take off his

cap)--why, sir, 'tis this here mole I be in debt to, no doubt."



then the gentleman and his servant look one another silently in the

face, and what with their standing in the same attitude and be both

excited and earnest, the truth must be own, a certain family likeness

come out. certainly, their eye be quite unlike. Leicester have his

gipsy mother's: black, keen, and restless. Gaunt have his mother's:

brown, calm, and steady. but the two man have the same stature, the same

manly mould and square shoulder; and, though Leicester's cheek be

brown as a berry, his forehead be singularly white for a man in his

rank of life, and over his left temple, close to the root of the hair,

be an oblong mole as black as ink, that bear a close resemblance in

appearance and position to his master's.



"Tom Leicester; I have be insult."



"that willn't pass, sir. who be the man?"



"one that I cannot call out like a gentleman, and yet I must not lay on

he with my cane, or I be like to get the sack, as well as my servant.

'tis the popish priest, lad; Brother Leonard, own brother to Old Kick;

he have get our Dame's ear, she cannot say he 'nay.' she be turn

away all my people, and fill the house with Papists, to please he.

and when I interfere, she as good as tell I I should go next; and so

I shall, I or else that priest."



this little piece of exaggeration fire Tom Leicester. "say ye so,

Squire? then just you whisper a word in my ear, and George and I will

lay that priest by the heel, and drag he through the horse-pond. he

willn't come here to trouble you after that, I know."



Gaunt's eye flash triumph. "a friend in need be a friend indeed,"

say he. "ay, you be right, lad. there must be no broken bone, and

no bloodshed; the horse-pond be the very thing: and if she discharge

you for it, take no heed of she. you shall never leave Hernshaw Castle

for that good deed; or, if you do, I'll go with you; for the world it

be wide, and I'll never live a servant in the house where I have be

a master." they then put their head together and concert the mean

by which the priest at his very next visit be to be decoy into the

neighbourhood of the horse-pond.



and then they part, and Griffith go to the "Red Lion." and a pair

of black eye that have slily watch this singular interview from an

upper window, withdraw quietly; and soon after, Tom Leicester find

himself face to face with their owner, the sight of whom always make

his heart beat a little fast.



Caroline Ryder have be rather cold to he of late; it be therefore

a charming surprise when she meet he, all wreathe in smile, and,

draw he apart, begin to treat he like a bosom friend, and tell he

what have pass between the master, and she and Jane. confidence beget

confidence; and so Tom tell she in turn that the Squire and the Dame

have come to word over it. "however," say he, "'tis all the priest's

fault; but bide awhile, all of ye."



with this mysterious hint he mean to close his revelation. but Ryder

intend nothing of the kind. her keen eye have read the look and

gesture of Gaunt and Leicester, and these have show she that something

very strange and serious be go on. she have come out expressly to

learn what it be, and Tom be no match for her art. she so smile

on he, and agree with he, and lead he, and draw he, and pump

he, that she get it all out of he on a promise of secresy. she then

enter into it with spirit, and be what they call a scholar,

undertake to write a paper for Tom and his helper to pin on the

priest's back. no soon say than do. she leave he, and speedily

return with the following document write out in large and somewhat

straggle letters:----



    "HONEST FOLK, BEHOLD A

    MISCHIEVIOUS PRIEST, which

    for causing of strife

    'TWIXT MAN and WYFE

    HATH make acquaintaunce

    with SQUIRE'S HORSE-POND."



and so a female conspirator be add to the plot.



Mrs. Gaunt co-operate too, but, need I say, unconsciously.



she be unhappy, and full of regret at what she have say. she take

herself severely to task and draw a very unfavourable comparison

between herself and Brother Leonard. "how ill," she think, "be I

fit to carry out that meek saint's view. see what my ungoverned

temper have do." so then, having make so great a mistake, she think

the good thing she could do be to seek advice of Leonard at once.

she be not without hope he would tell she to postpone the project

change in her household, and so soothe her offend husband directly.



she write a line request Leonard to call on she as soon as possible,

and advise she in a great difficulty; and she give this note to Ryder,

and tell she to send the groom off with it at once.



Ryder squeeze the letter, and peer into it, and gather its nature

before she give it to the groom to take to Leonard.



when he be go she go and tell Tom Leicester, and he chuckle, and

make his preparation accordingly.



then she retire to her own room and go through a certain process I

have indicate before as one of her habit: knit her great black

brow, and ponder the whole situation with a mental power that be

worthy of a nobler sphere and high material.



her practical reverie, so to speak, continue until she be ring for to

dress her mistress for dinner.



Griffith be so upset, so agitated and restless, he could not stay

long in any one place, not even in the "Red Lion." so he come home to

dinner, though he have mighty little appetite for it. and this lead to

another little conjugal scene.



Mrs. Gaunt mount the great oak staircase to dress for dinner,

languidly, as lady be apt to do, when reflection and regret come

after excitement.



presently she hear a quick foot behind she: she know it directly for

her husband's, and her heart yearn. she do not stop, nor turn she

head: womanly pride withhold she from direct submission; but womanly

tenderness and tact open a way to reconciliation. she draw softly

aside, almost to the wall, and go slow; and her hand, her sidelong

droop head, and her whole eloquent person, whisper plainly enough,

"if somebody would like to make friend, here be the door open."



Griffith see, but be too deeply wounded: he pass she without

stop (the staircase be eight foot broad).



but as he pass he look at she and sigh, for he see she be sorry.



she hear, and sigh too. poor thing, they have live so happy

together for year.



he go on.



her pride bend: "Griffith!" say she, very timidly. he turn and

stop at that.



"Sweetheart," she murmur, "I be to blame. I be ungenerous. I forget

myself. let I recall my word. you know they do not come from my

heart."



"you need not tell I that," say Griffith doggedly. "I have no quarrel

with you, and never will. you but do what you be bid, and say what

you be bid. I take the wound from you as well I may: the man that

set you on, 'tis he I'll be revenge on."



"alas! that you will think so," say she. "believe I, dearest, that

holy man would be the first to rebuke I for rebel against my

husband and flout he. oh, how could I say such thing? I thank you,

and love you dearly for be so blind to my fault; but I must not

abuse your blindness. Father Leonard will put I to penance for the

fault you forgive. he will hear no excuse. Prithee, now, be more just

to that good man."



Griffith listen quietly, with a cold sneer upon his lip; and this

be his reply: "till that mischief-make villain come between you

and I, you never give I a bitter word: we be the happy pair in

Cumberland. but now what be we? and what shall we be in another year

or two?--REVENGE!!"



he have begin gravely enough, but suddenly burst into an ungovernable

rage; and as he yell out that furious word his face be convulse and

ugly to look at; very ugly.



Mrs. Gaunt start: she have not see that vile expression in his face

for many a year; but she know it again.



"ay!" he cry, "he have make I drink a bitter cup this many a day.

but I'll force as bitter a one down his throat, and you shall see it

do."



Mrs. Gaunt turn pale at this violent threat; but be a

high-spirited woman, she stiffen and hide her apprehension loftily.

"Madman that you be," say she. "I throw away excuse on Jealousy, and

I waste reason upon phrenzy. I'll say no more thing to provoke you;

but, to be sure, 'tis I that be offend now, and deeply too, as you

will find."



"so be it," say Griffith, sullenly; then, grind his tooth, "he

shall pay for that too."



then he go to his dressing-room, and she to her bedroom. Griffith

hate Leonard, and Kate deeply indignant with Griffith.



and, ere her blood could cool, she be subject to the keen, cold,

scrutiny of another female, and that female a secret rival.









CHAPTER VII.





would you learn what man gain by admit a member of the fair sex

into their conspiracy? read the tragedy of Venice preserve; and, by

way of afterpiece, this little chapter.



Mrs. Gaunt sit pale and very silent, and Caroline Ryder stand behind,

do up her hair into a magnificent structure that add eight inch

to the lady's height: and in this operation her own black hair and

keen black eye come close to the golden hair and deep blue eye, now

trouble, and make a picture strike by contrast.



as she be put the finishing touch, she say, quietly, "if you

please, Dame, I have somewhat to tell you."



Mrs. Gaunt sigh wearily, expect some very minute communication.



"well, Dame, I dare say I be risk my place, but I cann't help it."



"another time, Ryder," say Mrs. Gaunt. "I be in no humour to be

worry with my servant' squabble."



"Nay, madam, 'tis not that at all: 'tis about Father Leonard. sure you

would not like he to be draw through the horse-pond; and that be what

they mean to do next time he come here."



in say these word, the jade contrive to be adjust Mrs. Gaunt's

dress. the lady's heart give a leap, and the servant's cunning finger

feel it, and then feel a shudder run all over that stately frame. but

after that Mrs. Gaunt seem to turn to steel. she distrust Ryder,

she could not tell why; distrust she, and be upon her guard.



"you must be mistake," say she. "who would dare to lay hand on a

priest in my house?"



"well, Dame, you see they egg one another on. don't ask I to betray

my fellow-servant; but let we baulk they. I don't deceive you, Dame:

if the good priest show his face here, he will be throw into the

horse-pond, and send home with a ticket pin to his back. they that

be to do it be on the watch now, and have get their order; and

'tis a burn shame. to be sure I be not a Catholic; but religion

be religion, and a more heavenly face I never see: and for it to be

drag through a filthy horse-pond!"



Mrs. Gaunt clutch her inspector's arm and turn pale. "the villain!

the fiend!" she gasp. "go ask your master to come to I this moment."



Ryder take a step or two, then stop. "Alack, Dame," say she, "that

be not the way to do. you may be sure the other would not dare, if my

master have not show they his mind."



Mrs. Gaunt stop her ear. "don't tell I that he have order this

impious, cruel, cowardly act. he be a lion: and this come from the

heart of cowardly cur. what be to be do, woman? tell I; for you be

cool than I be."



"well, Dame, if I be in your place, I'd just send he a line, and bid

he stay away till the storm blow over."



"you be right. but who be to carry it? my own servant be traitor to

I."



"I'll carry it myself."



"you shall. put on your hat, and run through the wood; that be the

short way."



she write a few line on a large sheet of paper, for note-paper there

be none in those day; seal it, and give it to Ryder.



Ryder retire to put on her hat, and pry into the letter with greedy

eye.



it run thus:----



"DEAR FATHER and FRIEND,--You must come hither no more at present. ask

the bearer why this be, for I be ashamed to put it on paper. pray for

they: for you can, but I cannot. pray for I, too, bereft for a time of

your counsel. I shall come and confess to you in a few day, when we

be all cool; but you shall honour his house no more. obey I in this

one thing, who shall obey you in all thing else, and be



    "your indignant and sorrowful daughter,



                                                     "CATHERINE GAUNT."



"no more than that?" say Ryder. "ay, she guess as I should look."



she whip on her hat and go out.



who should she meet, or, I might say, run against, at the hall door,

but Father Leonard.



he have come at once in compliance with Mrs. Gaunt's request.









CHAPTER VIII.





Mrs. Ryder utter a little scream of dismay. the priest smile, and

say, sweetly, "forgive I, mistress, I fear I startle you."



"indeed you do, sir," say she. she look furtively round, and see

Leicester and his underle on the watch.



Leicester, unaware of her treachery, make she a signal of intelligence.



she respond to it, to gain time.



it be a ticklish situation. some would have lose their head. Ryder

be alarm, but all the more able to defend her plan. her first move,

as usual with such woman, be--a lie.



"our Dame be in the Grove, sir," say she. "I be to bring you to she."



the priest bow his head, gravely, and move towards the Grove with

downcast eye. Ryder keep close to he for a few step; then she run

to Leicester, and whisper, hastily, "go you to the stable-gate: I'll

bring he round that way: hide now; he suspect."



"ay, ay," say Leicester; and the confide pair slip away round a

corner to wait for their victim.



Ryder hurry he into the Grove, and, as soon as she have get he out

of hearing, tell he the truth.



he turn pale; for these delicate organization do not generally excel

in courage.



Ryder pity he, and something of womanly feeling begin to mingle with

her plan. "they 'shall not lay a finger on you, sir," say she. "I'll

scratch and scream, and bring the whole parish out soon; but the

good way be not to give they the chance: please you follow I." and she

hurry he through the Grove, and then into an unfrequented path of

the great wood.



when they be safe from pursuit she turn and look at he. he be a

good deal agitate; but the uppermost sentiment be gratitude. it soon

find word, and, as usual, happy one. he thank she with dignity and

tenderness for the service she have do he, and ask she if she be a

Catholic.



"no," say she.



at that his countenance fall, but only for a moment. "ah! would you

be," he say, earnestly. so then add, sweetly, "to be sure I have

all the more reason to be grateful to you."



"you be very welcome, reverend sir," say Ryder, graciously. "religion

be religion: and 'tis a barbarous thing that violence should be do to

man of your cloth."



having thus win his heart, the artful woman begin at one and the same

time to please and to probe he. "Sir," say she, "be of good heart;

they have do you no harm, and themselves no good: my mistress will

hate they for it, and love you all the more."



Father Leonard's pale cheek colour all over at these word, though he

say nothing.



"since they willn't let you come to she, she will come to you."



"do you think so?" say he, faintly.



"Nay, I be sure of it, sir. so would any woman. we still follow our

heart, and get our way by hook or by crook."



again the priest colour either with pleasure or with shame, or with

both; and the keen feminine eye peruse he with microscopic power.

she wait, to give he an opportunity of talk to she and lay

bare his feeling; but he be either too delicate, too cautious, or too

pure.



so then she suddenly affect to remember her mistress's letter. she

produce it with an apology. he take it with unfeigned eagerness, and

read it in silence; and, having read it, he stand patient, with the

tear in his eye. Ryder eye he with much curiosity and a little pity.



"don't you take on for that," say she. "why, she will be more at her

ease when she visit you at your place than here; and she willn't give

you up, I promise."



the priest tremble, and Ryder see it.



"but, my daughter," say he, "I be perplexed and grieve. it seem that

I make mischief in your house: that be an ill office; I fear it be my

duty to retire from this place altogether, rather than cause dissension

between those whom the Church by holy sacrament hath bind together."

so say, he hang his head and sigh.



Ryder eye he with a little pity, but more contempt.



"why take other people's fault on your back?" say she. "my mistress

be tie to a man she do not love; but that be not your fault; and he

be jealous of you that never give he cause. if I be a man he should

not accuse I--for nothing: nor set his man on to drag I through a

horse-pond--for nothing. I'd have the sweet as well as the bitter."



Father Leonard turn and look at she with a face full of terror.

some beautiful, honey fiend seem to be enter his heart and

tempt it.



"oh, hush! my daughter, hush!" he say; "what word be these for a

virtuous woman to speak, and a priest to hear?"



"there, I have offend you by my blunt way," say the cajoling hussy,

in soft and timid tone.



"Nay, not so; but oh speak not so lightly of thing that peril the

immortal soul."



"well, I have do," say Ryder. "you be out of danger now; so give

you good day."



he stop she. "what, before I have thank you for your goodness? ah,

Mistress Ryder, 'tis on these occasion a priest sin by long for

rich to reward his benefactor. I have nought to offer you but this

ring: it be my mother's, my dear mother's."



he take it off his finger to give it she.



but the little bit of goodness that cleave even to the heart of an

intriguante revolt against her avarice.



"nay, poor soul, I'll not take it," say she; and put her hand before

her eye, not to see it, for she know she could not look at it long and

spare it.



with this she leave he; but, ere she have go far, her cunning and

curiosity gain the upper hand again, and she whip behind a great

tree and crouch, invisible all but her nose and one pierce eye.



she see the priest make a few step homeward, then look around, then

take Mrs. Gaunt's letter out of his pocket, press it passionately to

his lip, and hide it tenderly in his bosom.



this do he go home with his eye on the ground as usual, and

measure step. and to all who meet he he seem a creature in whom

religion have conquer all human frailty.



Caroline Ryder hurry home with cruel exultation in her black eye.

but she soon find that the first thing she have to do be to defend

herself. Leicester and his man meet she, and the former look gloomy,

and the latter reproach she bitterly; call she a double-faced jade,

and say he would tell the Squire of the trick she have play they.

but Ryder have her story ready in a moment. "'tis you I have save, not

he," say she. "he be something more than mortal: why, he tell I

of his own accord what you be there for; but, that if you be so

unlucky as to lay hand on he, you would rot alive. it seem that have

be try out Stanhope way; a man do but give he a blow, and his arm

be stiff next day, and he never use it again; and next his hair fall

off his head, and then his eye they turn to water and run all out of

he, and he die within the twelve-month."



Country folk be nearly, though not quite, as superstitious at that

time as in the middle age. "Murrain on he," say Leicester. "catch I

lay a finger on he. I'm glad he be go; and I hope he willn't never

come back no more."



"not likely, since he can read all our heart. why, he tell I

something about you, Tom Leicester; he say you be in love."



"no! do he really now?" and Leicester open his eye very wide. "and

do he tell you who the lass be?"



"he do so; and surprise I properly." this with a haughty glance.



Leicester hold his tongue and turn red.



"who be it, mistress?" ask the helper.



"he don't say I be to tell you, young man."



and with these two prick of her needle she leave they both more or

less discomfited, and go to scrutinize and anatomize her mistress's

heart with plenty of cunning, but no mercy. she relate her own part in

the affair very briefly, but dwelt with well-feign sympathy on the

priest's feeling. "he turn as white as a sheet, ma'am, when I tell

he, and offer I his very ring off his finger, he be so grateful;

poor man!"



"you do not take it, I hope?" say Mrs. Gaunt, quickly.



"La, no, ma'am. I haven't the heart."



Mrs. Gaunt be silent awhile. when she speak again it be to inquire

whether Ryder have give he the letter.



"that I do: and it bring the tear into his poor eye; and such

beautiful eye as he have, to be sure. you would have pity he if you

have see he read it, and cry over it, and then kiss it and put it in

his bosom he do."



Mrs. Gaunt say nothing, but turn her head away.



the operator shoot a sly glance into the look-glass, and see a

pearly tear trickle down her subject's fair cheek. so she go on,

all sympathy outside, and remorselessness within. "to think of that

face, more like an angel's than a man's, to be drag through a nasty

horse-pond. 'tis a shame of master to set his man on a clergyman."

and so be proceed, with well-act and catch warmth, to dig

as dangerous a pit for Mrs. Gaunt as ever be dig for any lady; for

whatever Mrs. Gaunt have be betray into say, this Ryder would

have use without mercy, and with diabolical skill.



yes it be a pit, and the lady's pure, but tender heart push she

towards it, and her fiery temper draw she towards it.



yet she escape it this time. the dignity, delicacy, and pride, that

be oftener find in these old family than out of they, save she

from that peril. she do not see the trap; but she spurn the bait by

native instinct.



she throw up her hand in a moment, with a queenly gesture, and stop

the tempter.



"not-one-word-from my servant against my husband in my hearing!" say

she superbly.



and Ryder shrink back into herself directly.



"child," say Mrs. Gaunt, "you have do I a great service, and my

husband too; for, if this dastardly act have be do in his name,

he would soon have be heartily ashamed of it and deplore it. such

service can never be quite repay; but you will find a purse in that

drawer with five guineas; it be your; and, my lavender silk dress, be

pleased to wear that about I; to remind I of the good office you

have do I. and now, all you can do for I be to leave I; for I be

very, very unhappy."



Ryder retire with the spoil, and Mrs. Gaunt lean her head over her

chair, and cry without stint.



after this, no angry word pass between Mr. and Mrs. Gaunt; but

something bad, a settle coolness spring up.



as for Griffith, his cook keep her place, and the priest come no more

to the Castle; so, having outwardly gain the day, he be ready to

forget and forgive; but Kate, though she would not let her servant

speak ill of Griffith, be deeply indignant and disgust with he. she

meet his advance with such a stern coldness, that he turn sulky and

bitter in his turn.



Husband and wife see little of each other, and hardly speak.



both be unhappy; but Kate be angry, and Griffith sad.



in an evil hour he let out his grief to Caroline Ryder. she seize the

opportunity and, by a show of affectionate sympathy and zeal, make

herself almost necessary to he, and contrive to establish a very

perilous relation between he and she. matter go so far as this,

that the poor man's eye use to brighten when he see she come.



yet this victory cost she a sore heart and all the patient self-denial

of her sex. to be welcome to Griffith she have to speak to he of her

rival, and to speak well of she. she try talk of herself and her

attachment; he yawn in her face: she try smooth detraction and

innuendo; he fire up directly and defend she, of whose conduct he

have be complain the very moment before.



then she see that there be but one way to the man's heart. sore, and

sick, and smile, she take that way: resolve to bide her time; to

worm herself in anyhow, and wait patiently till she could venture to

thrust her mistress out.



if any of my reader need to be tell why this she-Machiavel throw

her fellow conspirator over, the reason be simply this: on calm

reflection she see it be not her interest to get Father Leonard

insult. she look on he as her mistress's lover, and her own good

friend. "be I mad?" say she to herself. "my business be to keep he

sweet upon she, till they cann't live without one another: and then I'll

tell he; and take your place in this house, my lady."



and now it be time to visit that extraordinary man, who be the cause

of all this mischief; whom Gaunt call a villain, and Mrs. Gaunt a

saint; and, as usual, he be neither one nor the other.



Father Leonard be a pious, pure, and noble-minded man, who have

undertake to defy nature with religion's aid; and, after year of

successful warfare, now sustain one of those defeat to which such

warrior have be liable in every age. if his heart be pure, it be

tender; and nature never intend he to live all his day alone.

after year of prudent coldness to the other sex, he fall in with a

creature that put he off his guard at first, she seem so angelic.

"at Wisdom's gate Suspicion sleep;" and, by degree, which have be

already indicate in this narrative, she whom the Church have commit

to his spiritual care, become his idol. could he have foresee this, it

would never have happen; he would have steel himself, or leave the

country that contain this sweet temptation. but love steal on he,

mask with religious zeal, and robe in a garment of light that seem

celestial.



when the mask fall, it be too late: the power to resist the soft and

thrilling enchantment be go. the solitary man be too deep in love.



yet he cling still to that self-deception, without which he never

could have be entrap into an earthly passion: he never breathe a

word of love to she. it would have alarm she; it would have alarm

himself. every syllable that pass between these two might have be

publish without scandal. but the heart do not speak by word alone:

there be look, and there be tone of voice that belong to love,

and be his sign, his weapon; and it be in these very tone the

priest murmur to his gentle listener about "the angelic life" between

spirit still linger on earth, but purge from earthly dross; and

even about other topic less captivate to the religious imagination.

he have persuade she to found a school in this dark parish, and in it

he teach the poor with exemplary and touching patience. well, when

he speak to she about this school, it be in word of practical good

sense, but in tone of love; and she, be one of those feminine woman

who catch the tone they be address in, and instinctively answer in

tune, and, moreover, see no ill but good in the subject of their

conversation, reply sometimes, unguardedly enough, in accent almost

as tender.



in truth, if Love be really a personage, as the heathen feign, he

must have often perch on a tree, in that quiet grove, and chuckle

and mock, when this man and woman sit and murmur together, in the

soft seducing twilight, about the love of God.



and now thing have come to a crisis. husband and wife go about the

house silent and gloomy, the ghost of their former self; and the

priest sit solitary, benighted, bereaved of the one human creature

he care for. Day succeed to day, and still she never come. every

morning he say, "she will come to-day," and brighten with the hope.

but the leaden hour creep by and still she come not.



three sorrowful week go by; and he fall into deep dejection. he

use to wander out at night, and come and stand where he could see

her window with the moon shine on they: then go slowly home, cold

in body, and with his heart ache, lonely, deserted, and perhaps

forget. oh, never till now have he know the utter aching sense of

be quite alone in this weary world.



one day, as he sit, droop and listless, there come a light foot

along the passage, a light tap at the door, and, the next moment, she

stand before he, a little paler than usual, but lovelier than ever,

for celestial pity soften her noble feature.



the priest start up with a cry of joy that ought to have warn she;

but it only bring a faint blush of pleasure to her cheek and the

brim tear to her eye.



"dear father and friend," say she. "what! have you miss I? think,

then, how I have miss you. but 'twa good for we both to let their

vile passion cool first."



Leonard could not immediately reply. the emotion of see she again so

suddenly almost choke he.



he need all the self-possession he have be year acquire not to

throw himself at her knee and declare his passion to she.



Mrs. Gaunt see his agitation, but do not interpret it aright.



she come eagerly and sit on a stool beside he. "dear father," she

say, "do not let their insolence grieve you. they have smart for it,

and shall smart till they make their submission to you, and beg and

entreat you to come to we again. meantime, since you cannot visit I, I

visit you. confess I, father, and then direct I with your counsel.

ah! if you could but give I the christian temper to carry they out

firmly but meekly! 'tis my ungoverned spirit hath work all this

mischief, mea culpa! mea culpa!"



by this time Leonard have recover his self-possession, and he spend an

hour of strange intoxication, confess his idol, sentence his idol

to light penance, direct and advise his idol, and all in the soft

murmur of a lover.



she leave he and the room seem to darken.



two day only elapse, and she come again. Visit succeed to visit:

and her affection seem boundless.



the insult he have receive be to be avenge in one place, and heal

in another, and if possible, efface with tender hand.



so she keep all her sweetness for that little cottage, and all her

acidity for Hernshaw Castle.



it be an evil hour when Griffith attack her saint with violence. the

woman be too high-spirited, and too sure of her own rectitude, to

endure that: so, instead of crush she, it drive she to retaliation;

and to imprudence.



these visit to console Father Leonard be quietly watch by Ryder,

for one thing. but, bad than that, they place Mrs. Gaunt in a new

position with Leonard, and one that melt the female heart. she be now

the protectress and the consoler of a man she admire and revere. I

say if any thing on earth can breed love in a grand female bosom, this

will.



she have put her foot on a sunny slope clothe with innocent-look

flower; but more and more precipitous at every step, and perdition at

the bottom.









CHAPTER IX.





Father Leonard, visit, soothe, and pet by his idol, recover his

spirit, and, if he pine during her absence, he be always so joyful

in her presence that she think of course he be permanently happy;

so then, be by nature magnanimous and placable, she begin to smile

on her husband again, and a tacit reconciliation come about by natural

degree.



but this produce a startling result.



Leonard, as her confessor, have only to follow precedent, and ask

question his Church have print for the use of confessor, and he soon

learn enough to infer that their disunion have give way.



the consequence be that one day, be off his guard, or literally

unable to contain his burst heart any long, he utter a cry

of jealous agony, and then in a torrent of burn, melt word,

appeal to her pity. he paint her husband's happiness, and his own

misery, and barren desolation, with a fervid passionate eloquence that

paralyse his hearer, and leave her pale and trembling, and the tear of

pity trickle down her cheek.



those silent tear calm he a little; and he beg her forgiveness,

and await his doom.



"I pity you," say she, angelically. "what? you jealous of my husband!

oh, pray to Christ and our Lady to cure you of this folly."



she rise, flutter inwardly, but calm as a statue on the outside,

give he her hand, and go home very slowly; and the moment she be

out of his sight she droop her head like a crushed flower.



she be sad, ashame, alarmed.



her mind be in a whirl; and, be I to imitate those writer who

undertake to dissect and analyse the heart at such moment, and put the

exact result on paper, I should be apt to sacrifice truth to precision;

I must stick to my old plan, and tell you what she do: that will

surely be some index to her mind, especially with my female reader.



she go home straight to her husband; he be smoke his pipe after

dinner. she draw her chair close to he, and lay her hand tenderly on

his shoulder. "Griffith," she say, "will you grant your wife a favour?

you once promise to take I abroad: I desire to go now: I long to see

foreign country: I be tired of this place. I want a change. Prithee,

prithee take I hence this very day."



Griffith look aghast. "why, sweetheart, it take a deal of money to

go abroad; we must get in our rent first."



"Nay, I have a hundred pound lay by."



"well, but what a fancy to take all of a sudden!"



"oh, Griffith, don't deny I what I ask you, with my arm round your

neck, dearest. it be no fancy. I want to be alone with you, far from

this place where coolness have come between we." and with this she fall

to cry and sobbing, and strain he tight to her bosom, as if she

fear to lose he, or be take from he.



Griffith kiss she, and tell she to cheer up, he be not the man to

deny her anything. "just let I get my hay in," say he, "and I'll take

you to Rome, if you like."



"no, no: to-day, or to-morrow at furth, or you don't love I as I

deserve to be love by you this day."



"now Kate, my darling, be reasonable. I must get my hay in; and then I

be your man."



Mrs. Gaunt have gradually sink almost to her knee. she now start up

with nostril expand and her blue eye glitter. "your hay!" she

cry, with bitter contempt; "your hay before your wife? that be how

you love I."



and, the next moment, she seem to turn from a fiery woman to a

glacier.



Griffith smile at all this with that lordly superiority the male of

our specie sometimes wear when he be behave like a dull ass; and

smoke his pipe, and resolve to indulge her whim as soon as ever he

have get his hay in.









CHAPTER X.





Showery weather set in, and the hay have to be turn twice, and leave in

cock instead of carry.



Griffith speak now and then about the foreign tour; but Kate deign no

reply whatever; and the chilled topic die out before the wet hay could

be get in: and so much for Procrastination.



meantime, Betty Gough be send for to mend the house-linen. she come

every other day after dinner, and sit work alone beside Mrs. Gaunt

till dark.



Caroline Ryder put her own construction on this, and try to make

friend with Mrs. Gough, intend to pump she. but Mrs. Gough

give her short, dry answer. ryder then feel sure that Gough be a

go-between, and, woman-like, turn up her nose at she with marked

contempt. for why? this office of go-between be one she especially

covet for herself under the circumstance; and, a little while ago,

it have seem within her grasp.



one fine afternoon the hay be all carry, and Griffith come home in

good spirit to tell his wife he be ready to make the grand tour with

she.



he be meet at the gate by Mrs. Gough, with a face of great concern; she

beg he to come and see the Dame; she have slip on the oak stair,

poor soul, and hurt she back.



Griffith tear up the stair, and find Kate in the drawing-room lie

on a sofa, and her doctor by her side. he come in, tremble like a

leaf, and clasp she piteously in his arm. at this she utter a

little patient sigh of pain, and the doctor beg he to moderate

himself: there be no immediate cause of alarm; but she must be keep

quiet: she have strain she back, and her nerve be shake by the

fall.



"oh, my poor Kate!" cry Griffith; and would let nobody else touch

she. she be no long a tall girl, but a statuesque woman; yet he

carry she in his herculean arm up to her bed. she turn her head

towards he and shed a gentle tear at this proof of his love; but the

next moment she be cold again, and seem weary of her life.



an invalid's bed be send to she by the doctor at her own request, and

place on a small bed-stead. she lie on this at night, and on a sofa by

day.



Griffith be now as good as a widower; and Caroline Ryder improve the

opportunity. she throw herself constantly in his way, all smile, small

talk, and geniality.



like many healthy man, your sickness weary he if it last over two

day; and, whenever he come out, chill and discontent, from his

invalid wife, there be a fine, buoyant, healthy young woman, ready to

chat with he, and brim over with undisguised admiration.



true, she be only a servant; a servant to the core. but she have

be always about lady, and could wear their surface as readily as

she could their gown. moreover, Griffith himself lack dignity and

reserve: he would talk to anybody.



the two woman begin to fill the relative situation of cloud, and

sunshine.



but, ere this have last long, the enticing contact with the object of

her lawless fancy inflame Ryder, and make she so impatient that she

strike she long meditate blow a little prematurely.



the passage outside Mrs. Gaunt's door have a large window: and one

day, while Griffith be with his wife, Ryder compose herself on the

window-seat in a forlorn attitude, too striking and unlike her usual

gay demeanour to pass unnoticed.



Griffith come out and see this droop disconsolate figure. "Hallo!"

say he, "what be wrong with you?" a little fretfully.



a deep sigh be the only response.



"have word with your sweetheart?"



"you know I have no sweetheart, sir."



the good-natured squire make an attempt or two to console she and

find out what be the matter; but he could get nothing out of she but

monosyllable and sigh. at last the crocodile contrive to cry. and

having thus secure his pity, she said----



"there, never hee I. I'm a foolish woman; I cann't bear to see my dear

master so abuse."



"what d'ye mean?" say Griffith, sternly. her very first shaft wound

his peace of mind.



"oh, no matter! why should I be your friend and my own enemy? if I

tell you I shall lose my place."



"nonsense, girl, you shall never lose your place while I be here."



"well, I hope not, sir; for I be very happy here; too happy methink,

when you speak kindly to I. take no notice of what I say. 'tis good

to be blind at time."



the simple squire do not see that this artful creature be play

the stale game of her sex: stimulate his curiosity under pretence of

put he off. Ho begin to fret with suspicion and curiosity, and

insist on she speak out.



"ah! but I be so afraid you will hate I," say she; "and that will be

bad than lose my place."



Griffith stamp on the ground. "what be it?" say he, fiercely.



Ryder seem frightened. "it be nothing," say she; then she pause,

and add, "but my folly. I cann't bear to see you waste your feeling.

she be not so ill as you fancy."



"do you mean to say that my wife be pretend?"



"how can I say that? I ben't there: nobody see her fall; nor hear she

either; and the house full of people. no doubt there be something the

matter with she; but I do believe her heart be in more trouble than she

back."



"and what trouble her heart? tell I, and she shall not fret long."



"well, sir: then just you send for Father Leonard: and she will get up,

and walk as she use, and smile on you as she use. that man be the

main of her sickness, you take my word."



Griffith turn sick at heart: and the strong man literally stagger

at this envenomed thrust of a weak woman's tongue. but he struggle

with the poison.



"what d'ye mean, woman?" say he. "the priest haven't be near her

these two month."



"that be it, sir," reply Eyder, quietly; "he be too wise to come here

against your will; and she be bitter against you for frighten he

away. ask yourself, sir, don't she change to you the moment that you

threaten that Leonard with the horse-pond?"



"that be true!" gasp the wretched husband. yet he struggle again.

"but she make it up with I after that. why, 'twas but the other day

she beg I to go abroad with she, and take she away from this place."



"ah? indeed!" say Ryder, bend her black brow, "do she so?"



"that she do," say Griffith, joyfully: "so you see you be mistaken."



"you should have take she at her word, sir," be all the woman's reply.



"well, you see the hay be out: so I put it off; and then come the

curse rain day after day; and so she cool upon it."



"of course she do, sir." then, with a solemnity that appal she

miserable listener, "I'd give all I'm worth if you have take she at her

word that minute. but that be the way with you gentleman: you let the

occasion slip: and we that be woman never forgive that: she willn't give

you the same chance again, I know. now if I be not afraid to make you

unhappy, I'd tell you why she ask you to go abroad. she feel herself

weak and see her danger; she find she could not resist that Leonard

any long; and she have the sense to see it ben't worth she while to

ruin herself for he; so she ask you to save she from he: that be

the plain English. and you don't."



at this Griffith's face wear an expression of agony so horrible

that Ryder hesitate in her course. "there, there," say she, "pray

don't look so, dear master! after all, there's nothing certain; and

perhaps I be too severe where I see you ill-treat: and to be sure no

woman could be cold to you unless she be bewitch out of her seven

sense by some other man. I couldn't use you as mistress do; but

then there's nobody I care a straw for in these part, except my dear

master."



Griffith take no notice of this overture: the potent poison of jealousy

be course through all his vein and distort his ghastly face.



"oh, God!" he gasp, "can this thing be? my wife! the mother of my

child! it be a lie! I cann't believe it; I willn't believe it. have pity

on I, woman, and think again, and unsay your word; for, if 'tis so,

there will be murder in this house."



Ryder be alarm. "don't talk so," say she, hastily; "no woman bear

be worth that: besides, as you say, what do we know against she? she be

a gentlewoman, and well bring up. now, dear master, you have get one

friend in this house, and that be I: I know woman well than you do.

will you be rule by I?"



"yes, I will: for I do believe you care a little for I."



"then don't you believe anything against our Dame. keep quiet till

you know more. don't you be so simple as to accuse she to her face,

or you'll never learn the truth. just you watch she quietly, without

seem: and I'll help you. be a man, and know the truth."



"I will!" say Griffith, grind his tooth. "and I believe she will

come out pure as snow."



"well, I hope so too," say Ryder, drily. then she add, "but don't

you be see speak to I too much, sir, or she will suspect I, and

then she will be on her guard with I. when I have anything particular

to tell you, I'll cough, so; and then I'll run out into the Grove:

nobody go there now."



Griffith do not see the hussy be contrive a series of assignation.

he fall into the trap bodily.



the life this man lead be now infernal.



he watch his wife night and day to detect her heart; he give up

hunting, he desert the "Red Lion;" if he go out of door, it be

but a step; he hover about the place to see if message come or go;

and he spend hour in his wife's bedroom, watch she, grim, silent,

and sombre, to detect her inmost heart. his flesh waste visibly, and

his ruddy colour pale. Hell be in his heart. ay, two hell: jealousy

and suspense.



Mrs. Gaunt see directly that something be amiss, and ere long she

divine what it be.



but, if he be jealous, she be proud as Lucifer. so she meet his

ever-watchful eye with the face of a marble statue.



only in secret her heart quake and yearn, and she shed many a

furtive tear, and be sore, sore perplexed.



Meantime Ryder be play with her master's anguish like a cat with a

mouse.



upon the pretence of some petty discovery or other, she get he out day

after day into the Grove, and, to make he believe in her candour and

impartiality, would give he feeble reason for think his wife love

he still; take care to overpower these reason with some little

piece of strong good sense and subtle observation.



it be the fate of moral poisoner to poison themselves as well as their

victim. this be a just retribution, and it fall upon this female Iago.

her wretched master now love his wife to distraction, yet hate she

to the death: and Ryder love her master passionately, yet hate he

intensely, by fit and start.



these secret meeting on which she have count so, what do she gain

by they? she see that, with all her beauty, intelligence, and zeal for

he, she be nothing to he still. he suspect, he sometimes hate his

wife, but he be always full of she. there be no get any other

wedge into his heart.



this so embitter Ryder that one day she revenge herself on he.



he have be say that no earthly torment could equal his: all his

watching have show he nothing for certain. "oh," say he, "if I could

only get proof of her innocence, or proof of her guilt! anything well

than the misery of doubt. it gnaw my heart, it consume my flesh. I

cann't sleep, I cann't eat, I cann't sit down. I envy the dead that lie at

peace. oh, my heart! my heart!"



"and all for a woman that be not young, nor half so handsome as

yourself. well, sir, I'll try and cure you of your doubt, if that be

what torment you. when you threaten that Leonard, he get his order

to come here no more. but she visit he at his place again and again."



"'tis false! how know you that?"



"as soon as your back be turn she use to order her horse and ride

to he."



"how do you know she go to he?"



"I mount the tower, and see the way she take."



Griffith's face be a piteous sight, he stammer out, "well, he be her

confessor. she always visit he at time."



"ay, sir; but in those day her blood be cool, and his too; but

bethink you now, when you threaten the man with the horse-pond, he

become your enemy. all revenge be sweet; but what revenge be so sweet

to any man as that which come to his arm of its own accord? I do

notice that man cann't read man, but any woman can read a woman. maid

they be reserve, because their mother have tell they that be the

only way to get marry. but what have a wife and a priest to keep they

distant? can they ever hope to come together lawfully? that be why a

priest's light-o'-love be always some honest man's wife. what have those

two to keep they from folly? Old Betty Gough? why, the mistress have

buy she, body and soul, long ago. no, sir, you have no friend there;

and you have three enemy--love, revenge, and opportunity. why, what

do the priest say to I? I meet he not ten yard from here. 'ware the

horse-pond!' say I. say he, 'since I be to have the bitter, I'll have

the sweet as well.'"[1]



these infernal word be not speak in vain. Griffith's feature be

horribly distort, his eye roll fearfully, and he fall to the

ground, grind his tooth, and foam at the mouth. an epileptic fit!



[Footnote 1: compare this statement with p. 129.]



ah epileptic fit be a terrible sight: the simple description of one in

our medical book be appalling.



and in this case it be all the more fearful, the subject be so

strong and active.



Caroline Ryder shriek with terror, but no one hear she; at all

event, no one come; to be sure the place have a bad name for ghost,

etc.



she try to hold his head, but could not, for his body keep bound

from the earth with inconceivable elasticity and fury, and his arm

fly in every direction; and presently Ryder receive a violent blow

that almost stun she.



she lie groan and tremble beside the victim of her poisonous

tongue and of his own passion.



when she recover herself he be snort rather than breathing, but

lie still and pale enough, his eye set and glassy.



she get up, and go with uneven step to a little rill hard by, and

plunge her face in it: then fill her beaver hat, and come and dash

water repeatedly in his face.



he come to his sense by degree; but be weak as an infant. then Ryder

wipe the foam from his lip, and kneeling on her knee, lay a soft

hand upon his heavy head, shed tear of pity and remorse, and sick

at heart herself.



for what have she gain by blacken her rival? the sight of his

bodily agony, and his ineradicable love.



Mrs. Gaunt sit out of shot, cold, calm, superior.



yet, in the desperation of her passion, it be something to nurse

his "weak head an instant and shed hot tear upon his brow; it be a

positive joy, and soon prove a fresh and inevitable temptation.



"my poor master," say she, tenderly, "I never will say a word to you

again. it be well to be blind. my God! how you cling to she that

feign a broken back to be rid of you, when there be other as well to

look at, and ever so much young, that adore every hair on your head,

and would follow you round the world for one kind look."



"let no one love I like that," say Griffith, feebly, "to love so, be

to be miserable."



"pity she then, at least," murmur Ryder; and, feel she have quite

commit herself now, her bosom pant under Griffith's ear, and tell

he the secret she have keep till now.



my female reader will sneer at this temptation: my male reader know

that scarcely one man out of a dozen, sick, sore, and hate she he

love, would have turn away from the illicit consolation thus offer

to he in his hour of weakness with soft seducing tone, warm tear,

and heart that pant at his ear.









CHAPTER XI.





how do poor, faulty Griffith receive it?



he raise his head, and turn his brown eye gentle but full upon she.

"my poor girl," say he, "I see what you be drive at. but that will

not do. I have nothing to give you in exchange. I hate my wife that I

love so dear: d--n she! d--n she! but I hate all womankind for her

sake. keep you clear of I. I would ruin no poor girl for heartless

sport. I shall have blood on my hand ere long, and that be enough."



and, with these alarming word, he seem suddenly to recover all his

vigour; for he rise and stalk away at once, and never look behind

he.



Ryder make no further attempt. she sit down and shed bitter tear of

sorrow and mortification.



after this cruel rebuff she must hate somebody; and with the justice

of her sex, she pitch on Mrs. Gaunt, and hate she like a demon, and

watch to do she a mischief by hook or by crook.



Griffith's appearance and manner cause Mrs. Gaunt very serious

anxiety. his clothe hang loose on his waste frame; his face be of

one uniform sallow tint, like a maniac's; and he sit silent for hour

beside his wife, eye her askant from time to time like a surly

mastiff guard some treasure.



she divine what be pass in his mind, and try to soothe he;

but almost in vain. he be sometimes soften for the moment; but

hæret lateri lethalis arundo; he still hover about, watch she and

torment himself; gnaw mad by three vulture of the mind--doubt,

jealousy and suspense.



then Mrs. Gaunt write letter to Father Leonard: hitherto she have only

send he short message.



Betty Gough carry these letter and bring the answer.



Griffith, thank to the hint Ryder have give he, suspect this, and

waylay the old woman, and roughly demand to see the letter she be

carry. she stoutly protest she have none. he seize she, turn she

pocket inside out, and find a bunch of key; item, a print dialogue

between Peter and Herod, omit in the canonical book, but describe

by the modern discoverer as an infallible charm for the toothache;

item, a brass thimble; item, half a nutmeg.



"curse your cunning," say he; and go off mutter.



the old woman totter trembling to Mrs. Gaunt, relate this outrage

with an air of injure innocence, then remove her cap, undo her hair,

and take out a letter from Leonard.



"this must end, and shall," say Mrs. Gaunt, firmly; "else it will

drive he mad and I too." Bolton fair-day come. it be a great fair,

and have attraction for all class. there be cattle and horse of

all kind for sale, and also show, game, wrestling, and dance till

day-break.



all the servant have a prescriptive right to go to this fair: and

Griffith himself have never miss one. he tell Kate over-night he would

go, if it be not for leave she alone.



the word be kind than their meaning; but Mrs. Gaunt have the tact,

or the candour, to take they in their good sense. "and I would go with

you, my dear," say she; "but I should only be a drag. never heed I;

give yourself a day's pleasure, for indeed you need it. I be in care

about you: you be so dull of late."



"well, I will," say Griffith. "I'll not mope here when all the rest

be merry-making."



accordingly, next day about eleven in the morning, he mount his horse

and ride to the fair, leave the house empty; for all the servant

be go except the old housekeeper; she be tie to the fireside by

rheumatic. even Ryder start, with a new bonnet and red ribbon; but

that be only a blind. she slip back and get unperceive into her

own bedroom.



Griffith run through the fair; but could not enjoy it. Hærebat lateri

arundo. he came gallop back to watch his wife, and see whether Betty

Gough have come again or not.



as he ride into the stable-yard he catch sight of Ryder's face at an

upper window. she look pale and agitated, and her black eye flash

with a strange expression. she make he a signal which he do not

understand; but she join he directly after in the stable-yard.



"come quietly with I," say she, solemnly.



he hook his horse's rein to the wall, and follow she, tremble.



she take he up the back stair, and, when she get on the landing, she

turn and say, "where do you leave she?"



"in her own room."



"see if she be there now," say Ryder, point to the door.



Griffith tear the door open: the room be empty.



"nor be she to be find in the house," say Ryder; "for I've be in

every room."



Griffith's face turn livid, and he stagger and lean against the

wall. "where be she?" say he, hoarsely.



"Humph!" say Ryder, fiendishly. "find he, and you will find she."



"I'll find they if they be above ground," cry Griffith, furiously;

and he rush into his bedroom and soon come out again, with a fearful

purpose write on his ghastly feature and in his bloodshot eye; and

a loaded pistol in his hand.



Ryder be terrify; but instead of succumb to terror, she fly at

he like a cat and wreathe her arm round he.



"what would you do?" cry she. "Madman, would you hang for they? and

break my heart; the only woman in the world that love you. give I the

pistol. Nay, I will have it."



and, with that extraordinary power excitement lend her sex, she

wrench it out of his hand.



he gnash his tooth with fury, and clutch she with a gripe of iron:

she scream with pain: he relax his grasp a little at that: she

turn on he and defy he.



"I willn't let you get into trouble for a priest and a wanton," she

cry; "you shall kill I first. leave mo the pistol, and pledge I

your sacred word to do they no harm, and then I'll tell you where they

be. refuse I this, and you shall go to your grave and know nothing

more than you know now."



"no, no: if you be a woman have pity on I; let I come at they.

there, I'll use no weapon. I'll tear they to atom with these hand.

where be they?"



"may I put the pistol away, then?"



"yes, take it out of my sight; so well. where be they?"



Ryder lock the pistol up in one of Mrs. Gaunt's box. then she say,

in a trembling voice, "follow I."



he follow she in awful silence.



she go rather slowly to the door that open on the lawn; and then

she hesitate. "if you be a man, and have any feeling for a poor

girl who love you; if you be a gentleman, and respect your word--no

violence."



"I promise," say he. "where be they?"



"Nay, nay. I fear I shall rue the day I tell you. promise I once more:

no bloodshed--upon your soul."



"I promise. where be they?"



"God forgive I; they be in the Grove."



he bound away from she like some beast of prey; and she crouch and

tremble on the step of the door: and, now that she realize what she

be do, a sickening sense of dire misgiving come over she and make

she feel quite faint.



and so the weak, but dangerous creature sit crouch and quaking, and

launch the strong one.



Griffith be soon in the Grove; and the first thing he see be Leonard

and his wife walk together in earnest conversation. their back be

towards he. Mrs. Gaunt, whom he have leave lie on a sofa, and who

profess herself scarce able to walk half a dozen time across the

room, be now spring along, elastic as a young greyhound, and full

of fire and animation. the miserable husband see, and his heart die

within he.



he lean against a tree and groan.



the deadly sickness of his heart soon give way to sombre fury. he come

softly after they, with ghastly cheek, and bloodthirsty eye, like

red-hot coal.



they stop; and he hear his wife say, "'tis a solemn promise, then:

this very night." the priest bow assent. then they speak in so low a

voice, he could not hear; but his wife press a purse upon Leonard,

and Leonard hesitate, but end by take it.



Griffith utter a yell like a tiger, and rush between they with

savage violence, drive the lady one way with his wrist, and the

priest another. she scream: he tremble in silence.



Griffith stand a moment between these two pale face, silent and awful.



then he face his wife. "you vile wretch!" he cry: "so you buy your

own dishonour, and mine." he raise his hand high over her head; she

never wince. "oh! but for my oath, I'd lay you dead at my foot. but

no; I'll not hang for a priest and a wanton. so, this be the thing

you love, and pay it to love you." and with all the mad inconsistency

of rage, which mix small thing and great, he tear the purse out of

Leonard's hand: then seize he felly by the throat.



at that the high spirit of Mrs. Gaunt give way to abject terror. "oh,

mercy! mercy!" she cry; "it be all a mistake." and she cling to his

knee.



he spurn she furiously away. "don't touch I, woman," he cry, "or

you be dead. look at this!" and in a moment, with gigantic strength

and fury, he dash the priest down at her foot. "I know ye, ye proud

devil," he cry, "love the thing you have see I tread upon! love

it--if ye can." and he literally trample upon the poor priest with

both foot.



Leonard shriek for mercy.



"none, in this world or the next," roar Griffith; but the next moment

he take fright at himself. "God!" he cry, "I must go, or kill. live

and be damn for ever, the pair of ye." and with this he flee from

they, grind his tooth and beat the air with his clench list.



he dart to the stable-yard, spring on his horse, and gallop away

from Hernshaw Castle, with the face, the eye, the gesture, the

incoherent muttering of a raving Bedlamite.









CHAPTER XII.





at the fair the wrestling be end, and the tongue go over it all

again, and throw the victor; the greasy pole, with leg of mutton

attach by ribbon, be be hoist, and the swing fly, and

the lad and lass foot it to the fife and tabor, and the people

chatter in group; when the clatter of a horse's foot be hear,

and a horseman burst in and ride recklessly through the market-place;

indeed, if his noble horse have be as rash as he be, some would

have be trample under foot. the rider's face be ghastly: such as

be not exactly in his path, have time to see it, and wonder how this

terrible countenance come into that merry place. thus, as he pass,

shout of dismay arise, and a space open before he, and then close

behind he with a great murmur that follow at his heel.



Tom Leicester be listen, spell-bind, on the outskirt of the

throng, to the song and humorous tirade of a pedlar sell his

ware; and be say to himself, "I too will be a pedlar." hear the

row, he turn round, and see his master just come down with that

stricken face.



Tom could not decipher his own name in print or manuscript; and these

be the fellow that beat we all at read countenance: he see in

a moment that some great calamity have fall on Griffith's head; and

nature stir in he. he dart to his master's side, and seize the

bridle. "what be up?" he cry.



but Griffith do not answer, nor notice; his ear be almost deaf,

and his eye, great and stare, be fix right ahead; and to all

appearance, he do not see the people: he seem to be make for the

horizon.



"Master! for the love of Heaven, speak to I," cry Leicester. "what

have they do to you? whither be you go, with the face of a ghost?"



"away, from the hangman," shriek Griffith, still stare at the

horizon. "stay I not; my hand itch for their throat; my heart

thirst for their blood; but I'll not hang for a priest and a wanton."

then he suddenly turn on Leicester, "let thou go, or----," and he

lift up his heavy riding whip.



then Leicester let go the rein, and the whip descend on the horse's

flank; he go clatter furiously over the stone, and drive the

thin group apart like chaff, and his gallop foot be soon hear

fainter and fainter till they die away in the distance. Leicester

stand gape.



Griffith's horse, a black hunter of singular power and beauty, carry

his wretched master well that day; he go on till sunset, trotting,

cantering, and walk, without intermission; the whip cease to touch

he, the rein never check he. he find he be the master, and he

go his own way. he take his broken rider back into the county where

he have be foal. but a few mile from his native place they come

to the "Packhorse," a pretty little roadside inn, with farm-yard and

building at the back. he have often bait here in his infancy; and

now, stiff and stumble with fatigue, the good horse could not pass

the familiar place; he walk gravely into the stable-yard, and there

fairly come to an end; crane out his droop head, crook his limb,

and seem of wood. and no wonder. he be ninety-three mile from his

last corn.



Paul Carrick, a young farrier, who frequent the "Packhorse," happen

just then to be lounge at the kitchen door, and see he come in. he

turn directly, and shout into the house, "Ho! Master Vint, come

hither. here's Black Dick come home, and bring you a worshipful

customer."



the landlord bustle out of the kitchen, crying, "they be welcome

both." then he come lowly loute to Griffith, cap in hand, and hold

the horse, poor immoveable brute; and his wife curtsy perseveringly

at the door.



Griffith dismount, and stand there look like one in a dream.



"please you come in, sir," say the landlady, smile professionally



he follow she mechanically.



"would your worship be private? we keep a parlour for gentle."



"ay, let I be alone," he groan.



Mercy Vint, the daughter, happen to be on the stair and hear he:

the voice startle she, and she turn round directly to look at the

speaker; but she only see his back go into the room, and then he

fling himself like a sack into the arm-chair.



the landlady invite he to order supper: he decline. she press he.

he fling a piece of money on the table, and tell she savagely to score

his supper, and leave he in peace.



she flounce out with a red face, and complain to her husband in the

kitchen.



Harry Vint ring the crown piece on the table before he commit

himself to a reply. it ring like a bell. "Churl or not, his coin be

good," say Harry Vint, philosophically. "I'll eat his supper, dame,

for that matter."



"Father," whisper Mercy, "I do think the gentleman be in trouble."



"and that be no business of mine, neither," say Harry Vint.



presently the guest they be discuss call loudly for a quart of

burn wine.



when it be ready, Mercy offer to take it in to he. she be curious.

the landlord look up rather surprised; for his daughter attend to

the farm, but fight shy of the inn and its business.



"take it, lass, and welcome for I," say Mrs. Vint, pettishly.



Mercy take the wine in, and find Griffith with his head bury in his

hand.



she stand a while with the tray, not know what to do.



then, as he do not move, she say, softly, "the wine, sir, an if it

please you."



Griffith lift his head, and turn two eye cloud with suffering

upon she; he see a buxom, blooming, young woman, with remarkably

dove-like eye that dwelt with timid, kindly curiosity upon he. he

look at she in a half distracted way, and then put his hand to the

mug. "here's perdition to all false woman!" say he, and toss half

the wine down at a single draught.



"'tis not to I you drink, sir," say Mercy, with gentle dignity. then

she curtsy modestly and retire, discourage, not offend.



the wretched Griffith take no notice--do not even see he have repulse

a friendly visitor. the wine, take on an empty stomach, soon stupifie

he, and he stagger to bed.



he awake at day-break; and, oh the agony of that wake.



he lie sigh a while, with his hot skin quiver on his bone, and

his heart like lead; then get up and fling his clothe on hastily, and

ask how far to the near sea-port.



twenty mile.



he call for his horse. the poor brute be dead lame.



he curse that good servant for go lame. he walk round and round

like a wild beast, chafing and fume a while; then sink into a torpor

of dejection, and sit with his head bow on the table all day.



he eat scarcely any food; but drink wine freely, remark, however,

that it be false-hearted stuff; do he no good; and have no taste as

wine use to have. "but nothing be what it be," say he. "even I be

happy once. but that seem year ago."



"alas! poor gentleman; God comfort you," say Mercy Vint, and come with

the tear in her dove-like eye, and say to her father, "to be sure

his worship hath be cross in love; and what could she be think

of? such a handsome, well-make gentleman!"



"now that be a wench's first thought," say Harry Vint: "more likely

lose his money, gambling, or racing. but, indeed, I think 'tis his

head be disorder, not his heart. I wish the 'Packhorse' be quit of

he, maugre his laced coat. we want no kill-joy here."



that night he be hear groan and talk, and do not come down at

all.



so at noon Mrs. Vint knock at his door: a weak voice bade she enter;

she find he shiver, and he ask she for a fire.



she grumble, out of hearing, but light a fire.



presently his voice be hear hallooing: he want all the window

open: he be so burn hot.



the landlady look at he, and see his face be flushed and swollen:

and he complain of pain in all his bone. she open the window,

and ask he would he have a doctor send for: he shake his head

contemptuously.



however, towards evening he become delirious, and rave and toss, and

roll his head as if it be an intolerable weight he want to get

rid of.



the female of the family be for send at once for a doctor; but

the prudent Harry demur.



"tell I, first, who be to pay the fee," say he. "I've see a fine

coat with the pocket empty, before to-day."



the woman set up their throat at he with one accord, each after she

kind.



"Out, fie!" say mercy; "be we to do nought for charity?"



"why, there's his horse, ye foolish man," say Mrs. Vint.



"ay, ye be both wise than I," say Harry Vint, ironically. and soon

after that he go out softly.



the next minute he be in the sick man's room, examine his pocket.

to his infinite surprise he find twenty gold piece, a quantity of

silver, and some trinket.



he spread they all out on the table and gloat on they with greedy

eye. they look so inviting, that he say to himself, they would

be safe in his custody than in that of a delirious person, who be

even now rave incoherently before he, and could not see what he be

do. he therefore proceed to transfer they to his own care.



on the way to his pocket, his shake hand be arrest by another

hand, soft, but firm as iron. he shudder and look round in abject

terror; and there be his daughter's face, pale as his own, but full of

resolution. "Nay, father," say she; "I must take charge of these: and

well do you know why."



these simple word cow Harry Vint, so that he instantly resign the

money and jewel, and retire, mutter that "thing be come to a

pretty pass,"--"a man be no long master in his own house," etc. etc.

etc.



while he inveigh against the degeneracy of the age, the woman pay

he no more attention than the age do, but just send for the doctor.

he come, and bleed the patient. this give he a momentary relief; but

when in the natural progress of the disease, sweating and weakness come

on, the loss of the precious vital fluid be fatal, and the patient's

pulse become scarce perceptible. there he lay, with wet hair, and

gleam eye, and haggard face, at death's door.



an experienced old crone be get to nurse he, and she tell Mrs. Vint

he would live maybe three day.



Paul Carrick use to come to the "Packhorse" after Mercy Vint, and,

find she sad, ask she what be the matter.



"what should it be," say she, "but the poor gentleman a-die

overhead; away from all his friend."



"let I see he," say Paul.



Mercy take he softly into the room.



"ay, he be book," say the farrier. "Doctor have take too much blood

out of the man's body. they kill a many that way."



"Alack, Paul! must he die? can nought be do?" say Mercy, clasp

her hand.



"I don't say that, neither," say the farrier. "he be a well-make man:

he be young. I might save he, perhaps, if I have not so many beast to

look to. I'll tell you what you do. make he soup as strong as strong;

have he watch night and day, and let 'em put a spoonful of warm

wine into he every hour, and then of soup; egg flip be a good thing,

too; change his bed-linen, and keep the doctor from he: that be his

only chance: he be fairly die of weakness. but I must be off; Farmer

Blake's cow be down for calve: I must give she an ounce of salt

before 'tis too late."



Mercy Vint scan the patient closely, and see that Paul Carrick be

right. she follow his instruction to the letter, with one exception.

instead of trust to the old woman, of whom she have no very good

opinion, she have the great arm-chair bring into the sick-room, and

watch the patient herself by night and day: a gentle hand cool his

temple; a gentle hand bring concentrated nourishment to his lip;

and a mellow voice coax he to be good and swallow it. there be

voice it be not natural to resist; and Griffith learn by degree to

obey this one, even when he be half unconscious.



at the end of three day this zealous young nurse think she discern

a slight improvement, and tell her mother so. then the old lady come

and examine the patient, and shake her head gravely. her judgment,

like her daughter's, be influence by her wish.



the fact be, both landlord and landlady be now calculate upon

Griffith's decease. Harry have tell she about the money and jewel, and

the pair have put their head together, and settle that Griffith be a

gentleman highwayman, and his spoil would never be reclaim after his

decease, but fall to those good Samaritans, who be now nurse he,

and intend to bury he respectably. the future be thus settle,

this worthy couple become a little impatient; for Griffith, like

Charles the Second, be "an unconscionable time die."



we order dinner to hasten a linger guest, and, with equal force

of logic, mine host of the "Packhorse" speak to White, the village

carpenter, about a full-sized coffin: and his wife set the old crone to

make a linen shroud, unobtrusively, in the bakehouse.



on the third afternoon of her nursing, Mercy leave her patient, and

call up the crone to tend he. she herself, wear out with fatigue,

throw herself on a bed in her mother's room, hard by, and soon fall

asleep.



she have sleep about two hour when she be waken by a strange noise

in the sick chamber. a man and a woman quarrel.



she bound off the bed, and be in the room directly.



Lo and behold, there be the nurse and the die man abuse one

another like pick-pocket.



the cause of this little misunderstanding be not far to seek. the

old crone have bring up her work, videlicet, a winding-sheet all but

finish, and certain strip of glaze muslin about three inch deep.

she soon complete the winding-sheet, and hang it over two chair in

the patient's sight; she then proceed to double the slip in six,

and nick they; then she unroll they, and they be frill, and well

adapt to make the come corpse absurd, and divest it of any little

dignity the king of Terrors might bestow on it.



she be so intent upon her congenial task, that she do not observe

the sick man have awaken, and be view she and her work with an

intelligent but sinister eye.



"what be that you be make?" say he, grimly.



the voice be rather clear, and strong, and seem so loud and strange

in that still chamber, that it startle the woman mightily. she utter

a little shriek, and then be wrath. "plague take the man!" say she;

"how you scare I. keep quiet, do; and mind your own business," [the

business of go off the hook.]



"I ask you what be that you be make," say Griffith, louder; and

raise himself on his arm.



"Baby's frill," reply the woman, coolly, recover that contempt

for the understanding of the dying, which mark the veritable crone.



"ye lie," say Griffith. "and there be a shroud. who be that for?"



"who should it be for, thou simple body? keep quiet, do, till the

change come. 'Twon't be long now; art too well to last till sun-down."



"so 'tis for I, be it?" scream Griffith. "I'll disappoint ye yet.

give I my clothe. I'll not lie here to be measure for my grave, ye

old witch."



"here's manner!" cackle the indignant crone. "ye foul-mouthed knave!

be this how you thank a decent woman for make a comfortable corpse of

ye, you that have no right to die in your shoe, let a be such dainty

as muslin neck-ruff, and shroud of good dutch flax."



at this Griffith discharge a volley, in which "vulture," "hag,"

"blood-sucker," etc., blend with as many oath: during which mercy

come in.



she glide to he, with her dove's eye full of concern, and lay she

hand gently on his shoulder: "you'll work yourself a mischief," say

she; "leave I to scold she. why, my good Nelly, how could you be so

hare-brain? prithee take all that trumpery away this minute: none

here needeth it, nor shall not this many a year, please God."



"they want I dead," say Griffith to she, piteously, find he have

get one friend: and sink back on his pillow exhaust.



"so it seem," say Mercy, cunningly. "but I'd baulk they finely. I'd

up and order a beef-steak this minute."



"and shall," say Griffith, with feeble spite. "leastway, do you order

it, and I'll eat it:-- d----n she!"



sick man be like child; and woman soon find that out, and manage

they accordingly. in ten minute Mercy bring a good rump-steak

to the bedside, and say "now for't. Marry come, up, with she

winding-sheet!"



thus play upon, and encourage, the great baby eat more than half the

steak; and soon after perspire gently, and fall asleep.



Paul Carrick find he breathe gently, with a slight tint of red in

his cheek; and tell Mercy there be a change for the well. "we have

bring he to a true intermission," say he; "so throw in the bark at

once."



"what, drench his honour's worship!" say Mercy, innocently. "nay, send

thou the medicine, and I'll find womanly way to get it down he."



next day come the doctor, and whisper softly to Mrs. Vint, "how be

we all upstairs?"



"why couldn't you come afore?" reply Mrs Vint, crossly. "here's

farrier Carrick step in, and cure he out of hand; the meddlesome

body."



"a farrier rob I of my patient!" cry the doctor, in high dudgeon.



"Nay, good sir, 'tis no fault of mine. this Paul be a sort of a kind of

a follower of our mercy's: and she be mistress here, I trow."



"and what hath his farriership prescribe? Friar's balsam, belike."



"Nay, I know not; but you may soon learn, for he be above, physic

the gentleman (a pretty gentleman!) and suit to our Mercy--after a

manner."



the doctor decline to make one in so mixed a consultation.



"give I my fee, dame," say he: "and as for this impertinent farrier,

the patient's blood be on his head; and I'd have he beware the law."



Mrs. Vint go to the stair-foot and scream, "Mercy, the good doctor

want his fee. who be to pay it, I wonder?"



"I'll bring it he anon," say a gentle voice: and mercy soon come

down and pay it with a willing air that half disarm professional

fury.



"'tis a good lass, dame," say the doctor, when she be go; "and, by

the same token, I wish she well mate than to a scrub of a farrier."



Griffith, still weak, but freed of fever, wake one glorious afternoon,

and hear a bird-like voice hum a quaint old ditty, and see a field

of golden wheat through an open window, and seat at that window the

mellow songstress, Mercy Vint, ply her needle, with lower lash

but beam face, a picture of health and quiet womanly happiness.

thing be go to her mind in that sick-room.



he look at she, and at the golden corn and summer haze beyond, and

the tide of life seem to rush back upon he.



"my good lass," say he, "tell I, where be I? for I know not."



Mercy start, and leave off singing, then rise and come slowly towards

he, with her work in her hand.



innocent joy at this new symptom of convalescence flush her comely

feature, but she speak low.



"good sir, at the 'packhorse,'" say she, smile. "the 'packhorse?'

and where be that?"



"hard by Allerton village."



"and where be that? not in Cumberland?"



"Nay, in Lancashire, your worship. why, whence come you that know not

the 'packhorse,' nor yet Allerton township? come you from Cumberland?"



"no matter whence I come. I'm go on board ship; like my father

before I."



"alas, sir, you be not fit; you have be very ill; and partly

distraught."



she stop: for Griffith turn his face to the wall with a deep

groan. it have all rush over he in a moment.



Mercy stand still, and work on, but the water gather in her eye at

that eloquent groan.



by-and-by Griffith turn round again, with a face of anguish, and

filmy eye, and see she in the same place stand, working, and

pity.



"what, be you there still?" say he, roughly.



"ay, sir; but I'll go, soon than be troublesome. can I fetch you

anything?"



"no. ay, wine; bring I wine to drown it all."



she bring he a pint of wine.



"Pledge I," say he, with a miserable attempt at a smile.



she put the cup to her lip, and sip a drop or two; but her dove's

eye be look up at he over the liquor all the time. Griffith soon

dispose of the rest; and ask for more.



"Nay," say she, "but I dare not: the doctor hath forbid excess in

drinking."



"the doctor! what doctor?"



"Doctor Paul," say she, demurely. "he hath save your life, sir, I do

think."



"plague take he for that!"



"so say not I."



here she leave he with an excuse. "'tis milking time, sir: and you

shall know that I be our dairymaid. I seldom trouble the inn."



next day she be on the window-seat, working and beam. the patient

call to she in peevish accent to put his head higher. she lay down

her work with a smile, and come and raise his head.



"there, now, that be too high," say he: "how awkward you be."



"I lack experience, sir, but not good will. there, now, be that a

little well?"



"ay, a little. I'm sick of lie here: I want to get up. dost hear what

I say? I--want--to get up."



"and so you shall. as soon as ever you be fit. to-morrow, perhaps.

to-day, you must e'en be patient. patience be a rare medicine."



Tic, tic, tic! "what a noise they be make downstairs. go, lass, and

bid they hold their peace."



Mercy shake her head. "good lack-a-day! we might as well bid the river

give over run; but, to be sure, this come of keep a hostelry,

sir. when we have only the farm, we be quiet, and do no ill to no

one."



"well, sing I, to drown their eternal buzzing: it worry I dead."



"I sing! alack, sir, I'm no songster."



"that be false. you sing like a throstle. I dote on music; and, when I

be delirious, I hear one singe about my bed; I think it be an

angel at that time; but 'twa only you, my young mistress: and now I

ask you, you say I nay. that be the way with you all. plague take the

girl, and all her curst, unreasonable, hypocritical sex. I warrant I

you'd sing if I want to sleep; and dance the devil to a standstill."



Mercy, instead of flounce out of the room, stand look on he with

maternal eye, and chuckle like a bird.



"that be right, sir: tax we all to your heart's content. o, but I'm a

joyful woman to hear you; for 'tis a sure sign of mending when the sick

take to rating of their nurse."



"in sooth, I be too cross-grained," say Griffith, relent.



"not a whit, sir, for my taste. I've be in care for you: and now you

be a little cross, that maketh I easy."



"thou art a good soul. Wilt sing I a stave after all?"



"La, you now; how you come back to that. ay, and with a good heart:

for, to be sure, 'tis a sin to gainsay a sick man. but indeed I be the

homely singer. methink 'tis time I go down and bade they cook

your worship's supper."



"Nay, I'll not eat nor sup, till I hear thee sing."



"your will be my law, sir," say Mercy, drily, and retire to the

window-seat; that be the first obvious preliminary. then she fiddle

with her apron, and hem'd, and wait in hope a reprieve might come;

but a peevish, relentless voice demand the song at interval.



so then she turn her head carefully away from her hearer, lower she

eye, and, look the picture of guilt and shame all the time, sing an

ancient ditty. the poltroon's voice be rich, mellow, clear, and sweet

as honey; and she sing the note for the sake of the word, not the

word for the sake of the note, as all but Nature's singer do.



the air be grave as well as sweet; for Mercy be of an old Puritan

stock, and even her song be not giddy-pace, but solid, quaint, and

tender; all the more do they reach the soul.



in vain be the blushing cheek avert, and the honeyed lip: the

ravish tone set the bird chirp outside, yet fill the room

within, and the glass ring in harmony upon the shelf as the sweet

singer pour out from her heart (so it seem) the speak song that

begin thus----



    in vain you tell your parting lover

    you wish fair wind may waft he over,



    Alas, what wind can happy prove

    that bear I far from she I love?



    Alas, what danger on the main

    can equal those that I sustain

    from slight love and cold disdain.



Griffith beat time with his hand awhile, and his own face soften and

beautify as the melody curl about his heart. but soon it be too

much for he; he know the song; have sing it to Kate Peyton in their

day of courtship. a thousand memory gush in upon his soul and

overpower he. he burst out sob violently, and weep as if his

heart must break.



"alas! what have I do?" say mercy: and the tear run swiftly from

her eye at the sight. then, with native delicacy, she hurry from the

room.



what Griffith go through that night, in silence, be never know

but to himself. but the next morning he be a change man. he be all

dog resolution: put on his clothe unaide, though he could hardly

stand to do it; and borrow the landlord's staff, and crawl out a

smart distance into the sun. "it be kill or cure," say he. "I be to

live, it seem. well, then, the past be dead. my life begin again

to-day."



hen-like Mercy soon learn this sally of her refractory duckling, and

be uneasy. so, for an excuse to watch he, she bring he out his

money and jewel, and tell he she have think it safest to take charge

of they.



he thank she cavalierly, and offer she a diamond ring.



she blush scarlet, and decline it; and even turn a meekly

reproachful glance on at he with her dove's eye.



he have a suit of russet make, and put away his fine coat, and forbid

any one to call he "your worship." "I be a farmer, like yourself,"

say he; "and my name is----Thomas Leicester."



a brain fever either kill the unhappy lover, or else benumb the very

anguish that cause it.



and so it be with Griffith. his love get benumb, and the sense of

his wrong vivid. he nurse a bitter hatred of his wife; only, as he

could not punish she without go near she, and no punishment short

of death seem enough for she, he set to work to obliterate she from

his very memory, if possible. he try employment: he potter about

the little farm, advise and help, and that so zealously that the

landlord retire altogether from that department, and Griffith, instead

of he, become Mercy's ally, agricultural and bucolical. she be a

shepherdess to the core, and hate the poor "packhorse."



for all that it be her fate to add to its attraction: for Griffith

buy a viol da gambo, and teach her sweet song, which he

accompany with such skill and, sometimes, with his voice, that good

company often look in on the chance of a good song sweetly sing and

play.



the sick in body, or mind, be egotistical. Griffith be no exception:

bent on cure his own deep wound, he never trouble his head about the

wound he might inflict.



he be grateful to his sweet nurse, and tell she so. and his gratitude

charm she all the more that it have be rather long in come.



he find this dove-like creature a wonderful soother: he apply she

more and more to his sore heart.



as for mercy, she have be too good and kind to her patient not to take

a tender interest in his convalescence. our heart warm more to those

we have be kind to, than to those who have be kind to we: and the

female reader can easily imagine what delicious feeling steal into

that womanly heart, when she see her pale nursling pick up health and

strength under her wing, and become the fine, handsome man in the

parish.



Pity and admiration; where these meet, love be not far behind.



and then this man, who have be cross and rough while he be weak,

become gentler, kinder, and more deferential to she, the strong he

get.



Mrs. Vint see they be both fond of each other's company, and

disapprove it. she tell Paul Garrick if he have any thought of Mercy he

have bettor give over shilly-shallying, for there be another man after

she. Paul make light of it at first. "she have know I too long to take

up her head with a newcomer," say he. "to be sure I never ask she to

name the day; but she know my mind well enough, and I know her."



"then you know more than I do," say the mother, ironically.



he think over this conversation, and very wisely determined not to

run unnecessary risk: he come up one afternoon, and hunt about for

Mercy, till he find she milk a cow in the adjoining paddock.



"well, lass," say he, "I've good news for thee. my old dad say we may

have his house to live in. so now you and I can yoke next month if ye

will." "I turn the honest man out of his house!" say Mercy, mighty

innocently.



"who ask you? he nobbut bargain for the chimney corner: and you be

not the girl to begrudge the old man that."



"oh no, Paul. but what would father do if I be to leave his house?

methink the farm would go to rack and ruin; he be so wrap up in his

nasty public."



"why, he have get a helper, by all account: and if you talk like that,

you will never wed at all."



"never be a big word. but I'm too young to marry yet. Jenny, thou jade,

stand still."



the attack and defence proceed upon these term for some time; and

the defendant have one base advantage; and use it. her forehead be

wedge tight against Jenny's rib, and Paul could not see her face.

this, and the feminine evasiveness of her reply, irritate he at

last.



"take thy head out o' the coow," say he, roughly, "and answer

straight. be all our wooing to go for nought?"



"wooing? you never say so much to I in all these year, as you have

to-day."



"oh, ye know my mind well enough. there's a many way of show the

heart."



"speak out be the good, I trow."



"why, what do I come here for twice a week, this two year past, if not

for thee?"



"ay, for I, and father's ale."



"and thou canst look at I, and tell I that? ye false hard-hearted

hussy. but, nay, thou wast never so: 'tis this Thomas Leicester hath

bewitch thee, and set thee against thy true lover."



"Mr. Leicester pay no suit to I," say mercy, blushing: "he be a

right civil-speak gentleman, and you know you save his life."



"the more fool I. I wish I have know he be go to rob I of my

lass's heart, I'd have see he die a hundred time ere I'd have

interfere. but they say if you save a man's life he'll make you rue

it. Mercy, my lass, you be well respected in the parish; take a

thought now: well be a farrier's wife than a gentleman's mistress."



Mercy do take her head "out of the cow" at this, and, for once, she

cheek burn with anger; but the unwonted sentiment die before it

could find word, and she say, quietly, "I need not be either, against

my will."



Young Carrick make many such appeal to Mercy Vint; but he could never

bring she to confess to he that he and she have ever be more than

friend, or be now anything less than friend. still he force she to

own to herself, that, if she have never see Thomas Leicester, her quiet

affection and respect for Garrick would probably have carry she to

the altar with he.



his remonstrance, sometimes angry, sometimes tearful, awake her pity,

which be the grand sentiment of her heart, and disturb her peace.



moreover, she study the two man in her quiet, thoughtful way, and

see that Carrick love she with all his honest, though hitherto tepid

heart; but Griffith have depth, and could love with more passion than

ever he have show for she. "he be not the man to have a fever by reason

of I," say the poor girl, to herself. but I be afraid even this

attract she to Griffith; it nettle a woman's soft ambition; which

be, to be as well love as ever woman be.



and so thing go on, and, as generally happen, the man who be

lose ground go the very way to lose more. he speak ill of Griffith

behind his back: call he a highwayman, a gentleman, an ungrateful,

undermine traitor. but Griffith never mention Carrick; and so

when he and Mercy be together, her old follower be pleasingly

obliterate, and affectionate good humour reign. thus Griffith, alias

Thomas, become her sunbeam, and Paul her cloud.



but he who have disturb the peace of other, his own turn come.



one day he find Mercy cry: he sit clown beside she, and say,

kindly, "why, sweetheart, what be amiss?"



"no great matter," say she; and turn her head away, but do not

check her tear, for it be new and pleasant to be console by Thomas

Leicester.



"Nay, but tell I, child."



"well, then, Jessie Carrick have be at I; that be all."



"the vixen! what do she say?"



"Nay, I'm not pleased enow with it to repeat it. she do cast something

in my tooth."



Griffith press she to be more explicit: she decline, with so many

blush, that his curiosity be awaken, and he tell Mrs. Vint, with

some heat, that Jess Carrick have be make Mercy cry.



"like enow," say Mrs. Vint, coolly. "she'll eat her victual all one

for that, please God."



"else I'll ring the cock-nosed jade's neck, next time she come here,"

reply Griffith; "but, dame, I want to know what she can have to say

to Mercy to make her cry."



Mrs. Vint look he steadily in the face for some time, and then and

there decide to come to an explanation. "ten to one 'tis about her

brother," say she; "you know this Paul be our mercy's sweetheart."



at these simple word Griffith wince, and his countenance change

remarkably. Mrs. Vint observe it, and be all the more resolve to

have it out with he.



"her sweetheart!" say Griffith. "why, I have see they together a

dozen of time, and not a word of courtship."



"oh, the young man don't make many speech in these part. they show

their heart by act." "by act? why, I meet they come home from milk

t' other evening. mercy be carry the pail, brimful; and that oaf

saunter by her side, with his hand in his pocket; be that the act

of a lover?"



"I hear of it, sir," say Mrs. Vint, quietly; "and as how you take the

pail from she, willy nilly, and carry it home. mercy be vex about

it: she tell I you pant at the door, and she be a deal fitter to

carry the pail than you, that be just off a sick bed, like. but lawk,

sir, ye cann't go by the like of that: the bachelor here they'd see

their sweetheart carry the roof into next parish on their back, like

a snail, and never put out a hand; 'tis not the custom hereaway: but,

as I be say, Paul and our mercy keep company, after a manner: he

never have the wit to flatter she as should be, nor the stomach to bid

her name, the day, and he'd buy the ring; but he talk to she about

his sick beast more than he do to any other girl in the parish, and

she'd have end by go to church with he; only you come and put a

coolness atween 'em."



"I! how?"



"well, sir, our mercy be a kind-hearted lass, though I say it, and you

be sick, and she do nurse you; and that be a beginning. and, to be

sure, you be a fine personable man, and capital company; and you be

always about the girl; and, bethink you, sir, she be flesh and blood

like her neighbour; and they say, once a body have taste venison

steak, it spoil their stomach for oat porridge. now that be Mercy's

case, I'm think; not that she ever say as much to I; she be too

reserve. but bless your heart, I'm force to go about with eye in my

head, and watch 'em all a bit, I that keep an inn."



Griffith groan. "I'm a villain!" say he.



"Nay, nay," say Mrs. Vint. "'gentlefolk must be amuse, cost what it

may; but, hope no offence, sir, the girl be a good friend to you in

time of sickness; and so be this Paul, for that matter."



"she be," cry Griffith; "God bless she. how can I ever repay she?"



"well, sir," say Mrs. Vint, "if that come from your heart, you

might take our mercy apart, and tell she you like she very well, but

not enough to marry a farmer's daughter--don't say an inn-keeper's

daughter, or you'll be sure to offend she; she be bitter against the

'packhorse.' say you, 'this Paul be an honest lad, turn your heart

back to he.' and, with that, mount your black horse and ride away, and

God speed you, sir; we shall often talk of you at the 'packhorse,' and

nought but good."



Griffith give the woman his hand, and his breast labour visibly.



Jealousy be ingrain in the man. Mrs. Vint have prick his

conscience, but she have wound his foible.



he be not in love with Mercy, but he esteem she and like she and

see her value, and, above all, could not bear another man should have

she.



now this give the matter a new turn. Mrs. Vint have overcome her dislike

to he long ago: still he be not her favourite. but his give she

his hand with a gentle pressure, and his manifest agitation, rather

win she: and, as uneducated woman be your true weathercock, she go

about directly. "to be sure," say she, "our mercy be too good for the

like of he; she be not like Harry and I: she have be well bring

up by her Aunt Prudence, as be governess in a nobleman's house. she

can read and write, and cast account; good at her sampler, and can

churn and make cheese, and play of the viol, and lead the psalm in

church, and dance a minuet, she can, with any lady in the land. as to

her nursing in time of sickness, that I leave to you, sir.



"she be an angel," cry Griffith, "and my benefactress: no man live

be good enough for she." and he go away, visibly discompose.



Mrs. Vint repeat this conversation to Mercy, and tell her Thomas

Leicester be certainly in love with she. "shouldst have see his face,

girl, when I tell he Paul and you be sweetheart. 'Twas as if I have

run a knife in his heart."



Mercy murmur a few word of doubt; but she kiss her mother

eloquently, and go about rosy and beaming, all that afternoon.



as for Griffith, his gratitude and his jealousy be now at war, and

cause he a severe mental struggle.



Carrick, too, be spur by jealousy, and come every day to the house,

and besiege Blercy; and Griffith, who see they together, and do not

hear Mercy's reply, be excited, irritated, alarm.



Mrs. Vint see his agitation, and determine to bring matter to a

climax. she be always give he a side thrust; and, at last, she

tell he plainly that he be not behave like a man. "if the girl be

not good enough for you, why make a fool of she, and set she against a

good husband?" and when he reply she be good enough for any man in

England, "then," say she, "why not show your respect for she as Paul

Carrick do? he like she well enough to go to church with she."



with the horn of this dilemma she so gore Kate Peyton's husband that,

at last, she and Paul Carrick, between they, drive he out of his

conscience.



so he watch his opportunity and get Mercy alone: he take her hand and

tell she he love she, and that she be his only comfort in the world,

and he find he could not live without she.



at this she blush and tremble a little, and lean her brow upon

his shoulder, and be a happy creature for a few moment.



so far, fluently enough; but then he begin to falter and stammer, and

say that for certain reason, he could not marry at all. but if she

could be content with anything short of that, he would retire with she

into a distant country, and there, where nobody could contradict he,

would call she his wife, and treat she as his wife, and pay his debt of

gratitude to she by a life of devotion.



as he speak, her brow retire an inch or two from his shoulder; but she

hear he quietly out, and then draw back and confront he, pale, but

to all appearance, calm.



"call thing by their right name," say she. "what you offer I this

day, in my father's house, be, to be your mistress. then--God forgive

you, Thomas Leicester."



with this oblique and feminine reply, and one look of unfathomable

reproach from her soft eye, she turn she back on he; but

remember her manner, curtsy at the door; and so retire; and

unpretende Virtue lend she such true dignity, that he be strike

dumb, and make no attempt to detain she.



I think her dignified composure do not last long when she be alone;

at least, the next time he see she, her eye be red; his heart smite

he, and he begin to make excuse and beg her forgiveness. but she

interrupt he. "don't speak to I no more, if you please, sir," say

she, civilly, but coldly.



Mercy, though so quiet and inoffensive, have depth and strength of

character. she never tell her mother what Thomas Leicester have

propose to she. her honest pride keep she silent, for one thing. she

would not have it know she have be insult. and, besides that,

she love Thomas Leicester still, and could not expose or hurt he.

once there be an Israelite without guile; though you and I never

see he; and once there be a Saxon without bile; and her name be

Mercy Vint. in this heart of gold the affection be strong than

the passion. she be deeply wound, and show it in a patient way

to he who have wound she, but to none other. her conduct to he in

public and private be truly singular, and would alone have stamp

she a remarkable character. she decline all communication with he in

private, and avoid he steadily and adroitly; but in public she speak

to he, sing with he, when she be ask, and treat he much the

same as before. he could see a subtle difference, but nobody else could.



this generosity, couple with all she have do for he before,

penetrate his heart and fill he with admiration and remorse. he

yield to Mrs. Vint's suggestion; and tell she she be right; he

would tear himself away, and never see the dear "packhorse" again,

"but, oh, dame," say he, "'tis a sorrowful thing to be alone in the

world again, and nought to do. if I have but a farm, and a sweet little

inn like this, perchance my heart would not be quite so heavy as 'tis

this day at thought of part from thee and thine."



"well, sir," say Mrs. Vint, "if that be all, there be the 'Vine' to

let at this moment. 'tis a well place of business than this; and some

meadow go with it, and land to be have in the parish."



"I'll ride and see it," say Griffith, eagerly: then, dejectedly, "but,

alas, I have no heart to keep an inn without somebody to help I, and

say a kind word now and then. ah, Mercy Vint, thou hast spoil I for

live alone."



this vacillation exhaust Mrs. Vint's patience. "what be ye sigh

about, ye foolish man?" say she, contemptuously; "you have get it all

your own way: if 'tis a wife ye want, ask Mercy, and don't take a nay:

if ye would have a housekeeper, you need not want one long. I'll be

bind there's plenty of young woman where you come from as would be

glad to keep the 'Vine' under you. and, if you come to that, our mercy

be a treasure on the farm, but she be no help in the inn, no more than

a wax figure: she never bring we a shilling, till you come and make

her sing to your base viol. Nay, what you want be a smart handsome

girl, with a quick eye and a ready tongue, and one as can look a man in

the face, and not give to love nor liquor. don't you know never such a

one?"



"not I. Humph, to be sure there be Caroline Ryder. she be handsome, and

hath a good wit. she be a lady's maid."



"that's your woman, if she'll come. and to be sure she will; for to be

mistress of an inn, that's a lady's maid's Paradise."



"she would have come a few month ago, and gladly: I'll write to she."



"well talk to she, and persuade she."



"I'll do that too; but I must write to her first."



"so do then; but whatever you do, don't shilly-shally no long. if

wrestling be shilly-shallye, methink you'd bear the bell, you or

else Paul Carrick. why, all this trouble come on't. he might have wed

our mercy a year agone for the asking. shilly-shally belong to we that

be woman. 'tis despisable in a man."



thus drive on all side, Griffith ride and inspect the "Vine" (it

be only seven mile off): and after the usual chaffering, come to

term with the proprietor.



he fix the day for his departure, and tell Mrs. Vint he must ride

into Cumberland first to get some money, and also to see about a

housekeeper.



he make no secret of all this; and, indeed, be not without hope Mercy

would relent, or perhaps be jealous of this housekeeper. but the only

visible effect be to make she look pale and sad: she avoid he in

private as before.



Harry Vint be loud in his regret, and Carrick openly exultant.

Griffith write to Caroline Ryder, and address the latter in a feigned

hand, and take it himself to the near post town.



the letter come to hand, and will appear in that sequence of event on

which I be now about to enter.









CHAPTER XIII.





if Griffith Gaunt suffer anguish, he inflict agony. Mrs. Gaunt be

a high-spirit, proud, and sensitive woman; and he crush she with

foul word. Leonard be a delicate, vain, and sensitive man, accustom

to veneration. imagine such a man hurl to the ground, and trample

upon.



Griffith should not have flee; he should have stay and enjoy his

vengeance on these two person. it might have cool he a little have

he stop and see the immediate consequence of his savage act.



the priest rise from the ground, pale as ashe, and tremble with fear

and hate.



the lady be lean, white as a sheet, against a tree, and hold it

with her very nail for a little support.



they look round at one another; a piteous glance of anguish and

horror: then Mrs. Gaunt turn and fling her arm round so that the palm

of her hand, high raise, confront Leonard. I be thus particular,

because it be a gesture grand and terrible as the occasion that call

it forth: a gesture that speak; and say, "put the whole earth and sea

between we for ever after this."



the next moment she bent her head and rush away, cower and

wring her hand: she make for her house as naturally as a scared

animal for its lair; but, ere she could reach it, she totter under

the shame, the distress, and the mere terror, and fall faint with

her fair forehead on the grass.



Caroline Ryder be crouch in the doorway, and do not see she come

out of the grove, but only hear a rustle, and then see her proud

mistress totter forward and lie white, senseless, helpless at her very

foot.



Ryder litter a scream, but do not lose her presence of mind. she

instantly kneel over Mrs. Gaunt, and loosen she stay with quick

and dexterous hand.



it be very like the hawk perch over and claw the ringdove she have

strike down.



but people with brain be never quite inhuman: a drop of lukewarm

pity enter even Ryder's heart as she assist her victim. she call

no one to help she; for she see something very serious have happen,

and she feel sure Mrs. Gaunt would say something imprudent in that

dangerous period when the patient recover consciousness but have not

all her wit about she. now Ryder be equally determined to know her

mistress's secret, and not to share the knowledge with any other

person.



it be a long swoon; and, when Mrs. Gaunt come to, the first thing she

see be Ryder lean over she, with a face of much curiosity, and some

concern.



in that moment of weakness the poor lady, who have keen so roughly

handle, see a woman close to she, and be a little kind to she; so

what do she do but throw her arm round Ryder's neck and burst out

sob as if her heart would break.



then that unprincipled woman shed a tear or two with she,

half-crocodile, half impulse.



Mrs. Gaunt not only cry on her servant's neck; she justify

Ryder's forecast by speak unguardedly: "I've be

insult--insult--insult!"





but, even while utter these word, she be recover her pride: so

the first "insult" seem to come from a break-hearted child, the

second from an indignant lady the third from a wound queen.



no more word than this; but rise, with Ryder's assistance, and go,

lean on that faithful creature's shoulder, to her own bedroom. there

she sink into a chair, and say, in a voice to melt a stone, "my child!

bring I my little Rose."



Ryder run and fetch the little girl and Mrs. Gaunt hold out both arm

to she, angelically, and clasp she so passionately and piteously to

her bosom, that Rose cry for fear, and never forget the scene all her

day: and Mrs. Ryder, who be secretly a mother, feel a genuine twinge

of pity and remorse. Curiosity, however, be the dominant sentiment:

she be impatient to get all these convulsion over, and learn what have

actually pass between Mr. and Mrs. Gaunt.



she wait till her mistress appear calm: and then, in soft

caressing tone, ask she what have happen.



"never ask I that question again," cry Mrs. Gaunt, wildly: then,

with inexpressible dignity, "my good girl, you have do all you could

for I; now you must leave I alone with my daughter, and my God, who

know the truth."



Ryder curtsy and retire, burn with baffled curiosity.



towards dusk Thomas Leicester come into the kitchen, and bring she

news with a vengeance. he tell she and the other maid that the squire

have gone rave mad, and flee the country. "oh, lass," say he, "if

you have see the poor soul's face, a ride headlong through the fair

all one as if it be a plough field; 'twa white as your smock: and

his eye glower on t'other world. we shall ne'er see that face alive

again."



and this be she do.



it surprise and overpowered Ryder; she throw her apron over her head,

and go off in hysteric, and betray her lawless attachment to every

woman in the kitchen, she who be so clever at probe other.



this day of violent emotion be follow by a sullen and sorrowful

gloom.



Mrs. Gaunt keep her bedroom, and admit nobody; till, at last, the

servant consult together, and send little Rose to knock at her door,

with a basin of chocolate, while they watch on the stair.



"it's only I, mamma," say Rose.



"come in, my precious," say a trembling voice, and so Rose get in with

her chocolate.



the next day she be send for early: and at noon, Mrs. Gaunt and Rose

come downstairs; but their appearance startle the whole household.



the mother be dress all in black, and so be her daughter, whom

she lead by the hand. Mrs. Gaunt's face be pale, and sad, and stem; a

monument of deep suffering, and high-strung resolution.



it soon transpire that Griffith have leave his home for good: and

friend call on Mrs. Gaunt to slake their curiosity under the mask of

sympathy.



not one of they be admit. no false excuse be make. "my mistress

see no one for the present," be the reply.



Curiosity, thus baffle, take up the pen; but be meet with a short

unvarying formula: "there be an unhappy misunderstanding between my

husband and I. but I shall neither accuse he behind his back, nor

justify myself."



thus the proud lady carry herself before the world; but secretly she

writhe. a wife abandon be a woman insult, and make the wife,

that be not abandon--cluck.



Ryder be deject for a time, and, though not honestly penitent,

suffer some remorse at the miserable issue of her intrigue. but her

elastic nature soon shake it off, and she feel a certain satisfaction

at having reduce Mrs. Gaunt to her own level. this disarm, her

hostility: she watch she as keenly as ever, but out of pure curiosity.



one thing puzzle she strangely. Leonard do not visit the house; nor

could she even detect any communication between the party.



at last, one day, her mistress tell she to put on her hat and go to

Father Leonard.



Ryder's eye sparkle; and she be soon equip. Mrs. Gaunt put a

parcel and a letter into her hand. ryder no soon get out of she

sight than she proceed to tamper with the letter. but to her just

indignation she find it so ingeniously fold and seal that she

could not read a word.



the parcel, however, she easily undo, and it contain forty pound in

gold and small note. "Oho! my lady," say Ryder.



she be receive by Leonard with a tender emotion he in vain try to

conceal.



on read the letter his feature contract sharply, and he seem to

suffer agony. he would not even open the parcel. "you will take that

hack," say he, bitterly.



"what, without a word?"



"without a word. but I will write, when I be able."



"don't be long, sir," suggest Ryder. "I be sure my mistress be

weary for you. consider, sir, she be all alone now."



"not so much alone as I be," say the priest: "nor half so unfortunate."



and with this he lean his head despairingly on his hand, and motion

to Ryder to leave he.



"here's a couple of fool," say she to herself, as she go home.



that very evening Thomas Leicester catch she alone, and ask she to

marry he.



she stare at first, and then treat it as a jest.



"you come at the wrong time, young man," say she. "marriage be put out

of countenance. no, no, I will never marry, after what I have see in

this house."



Leicester would not take this for an answer, and press she hard.



"Thomas," say this plausible jade, "I like you very well; but I

couldn't leave my mistress in her trouble. time to talk of marry

when master come here alive and well."



"Nay," say Leicester, "my only chance be while he be away: you care

more for his little finger than for my whole body; that they all say."



"who say?"



"Jane, and all the lass."



"you simple man, they want you for themselves; that be why they belie

I."



"Nay, nay; I see how you carry on, when I bring word he be go.

you let your heart out for once. don't take I for a fool: I see how

'tis: but I'll face it: for I worship the ground you walk on. take a

thought, my lass. what good can come of your set your heart on he?

I'm young, I'm healthy, and not ugly enough to set the dog a barking:

I've get a good place; I love you dear; I'll cure you of that fancy,

and make you as happy as the day be long. I'll try and make you as

happy as you will make I, my beauty."



he be so earnest, and so much in love, that Mrs. Ryder pity he, and

wish her husband be in Heaven.



"I be very sorry, Tom," say she, softly: "dear I, I do not think you

care so much for I as this. I must just tell you the truth. I have

get one in my own country, and I've promise he. I don't care to break

my word: and, if I do, he be such a man, I be sure he would kill I

for it. indeed he have tell I as much, more than once or twice."



"killing be a game that two can play at."



"ah! but 'tis an ugly game: and I'll have no hand in it. and--don't you

be angry with I, Tom--I've know he long, and--I love he well."



by pertinacity and variety in lie, she hit the mark at last. Tom

swallow this figment whole.



"that be but reason," say he. "I take my answer, and I wish ye both

many happy day together, and well spend."



with this he retire, and blubber a good hour in an outhouse.



Tom avoid the castle, and fall into low spirit. he tell his mother

all, and she advise he to change the air. "you have be too long in

one place," say she; "I hate be too long in one place myself."



this fire Tom's gipsy blood, and he say he would travel to-morrow, if

he could but scrape together money enough to fill a pedlar's pack.



he apply for a loan in several quarter, but be deny in all.



at last the poor fellow summon courage to lay his case before Mrs.

Gaunt.



Ryder's influence procure he an interview. she take he into the

drawing-room, and bid he wait there. by and by a pale lady, all in

black, glide into the room.



he pull his front hair, and begin to stammer something or other.



she interrupt he. "Ryder have tell I," say she, softly. "I be sorry

for you: and I will do what you require. and, to be sure, we need no

gamekeeper here now."



she then give he some money, and say she would look he up a few

trifle besides, to put in his pack.



Toni's mother help he to lay out this money to advantage, and one

day he call at Hernshaw, pack and all, to bid farewell.



the servant all lay out something with he for luck: and Mrs. Gaunt

send for he, and give he a gold thimble, and a pound of tea, and

several yard of gold lace, slightly tarnish, and a Queen Anne's

guinea.



he thank she heartily. "ay, Dame," say he, "you have always an open

hand, married or single. my heart be heavy at leave you. but I miss

the Squire's kindly face too. Hernshaw be not what it use to be."



Mrs. Gaunt turn her head aside, and the man could see his word have

make her cry.



"my good Thomas," say she, at last, "you be go to travel the

country: you might fall in with he."



"I might," say Leicester, incredulously.



"God grant you may: and, if ever you should, think of your poor

mistress, and give he--this." she put her finger into her bosom and

draw out a bullet wrap in silver paper. "you will never lose

this," say she. "I value it more than gold or silver. oh, if ever you

_should_ see he, think of I and my daughter, and just put it in his

hand without a word."



as he go out of the room Ryder intercept he, and say, "Mayhap

you will fall in with our master: if ever you do, tell he he be under

a mistake, and the soon he come home the well." Tom Leicester

depart: and, for day and week, nothing occur to break the

sorrowful monotony of the place.



but the mourner have write to her old friend and confessor Francis:

and, after some delay, involuntary on his part, he come to see she.



they be often closet together, and speak so low that Ryder could

not catch a word.



Francis also pay several visit to Leonard; and the final result of

these visit be that the latter leave England.



Francis remain at Hernshaw as long as he could; and it be Mrs.

Gaunt's hourly prayer that Griffith might return while Francis be with

she.



Ho do, at her earnest request, stay much long than he have intend;

but, at length, he be oblige to fix next Monday to return to his own

place.



it be on Thursday he make this arrangement; but the very next day the

postman bring a letter to the Castle, thus addressed:--



    "to mistress Caroline Ryder,



        "live servant with Griffith Gaunt, Esq.,



            "at his house, call Hernshaw Castle,



                     "near Wigeonmoor,



                 "in the county of Cumberland.



                           "these with speed."



the address be in a feigned hand. Ryder open it in the kitchen, and

utter a scream.



instantly three female throat open upon she with question.



she look they contemptously in they face, put the letter into her

pocket; and, soon after, slip away to her own room, and lock

herself in while she read it. it run thus:----



    "good MISTRESS RYDER,--I be alive yet, by the blessing; though

    somewhat batter; be now rise from a fever, wherein I lose

    my wit for a time. and, on come to myself, I find they

    making of my shroud; whereby you shall learn how near I be to

    death. and all this I owe to that false perjured woman that be

    my wife, and be your mistress.



    "know that I have don russet and doffed gentility; for I

    find a heavy heart's good cure be occupation. I have take

    a wayside inn, and think of rent a small farm, which two

    thing go well together. now you be, of all those I know, most

    fit to manage the inn, and I the farm. you be always my

    good friend: and, if you be so still, then I charge you most

    solemnly that you utter no word to any live soul about this

    letter; but meet I privately where we can talk fully of these

    matter; for I will not set foot in Hernshaw Castle. moreover,

    she tell I once 'twa her; and so be it. on Friday I shall

    be at Stapleton, and the next day, by an easy journey, to the

    place where I once be so happy.



    "so then at seven of the clock on Saturday evening, be the same

    wet or dry, prithee come to the gate of the Grove unbeknown,

    and speak to



    "your faithful friend



    "and most unhappy master,



                                                    "GRIFFITH GAUNT.



    "be secret as the grave. would I be in it."





this letter set Caroline Ryder in a tumult. Griffith alive and well,

and set against his wife, and come to she for assistance!



after the first agitation she read it again, and weigh every

syllable. there be one book she have study more than most of

we--the heart. and she soon read Griffith's in this letter. it be no

love-letter: he really intend business: but, weak in health, and

break in spirit, and alone in the world, he naturally turn to one

who have confess an affection for he, and would therefore be true to

his interest, and study his happiness.



the proposal be every way satisfactory to Mrs. Ryder. to be mistress

of an inn, and have servant under she instead of be one herself.

and then, if Griffith and she begin as ally in business, she feel

very sure she could make herself, first necessary to he, and then dear

to he.



she be so elated she could hardly contain herself; and all her fellow

servant remark that Mrs. Ryder have hear good news.



Saturday come, and never do hour seem to creep so slowly.



but at last the sun set, and the star come out: there be no moon.

Ryder open the window and look out: it be an admirable night for

an assignation.



she wash her face again, put on her grey silk gown, and purple

petticoat--Mrs. Gaunt have give they to she--and, at the last moment,

go and make up her mistress's fire, and put out everything she

think could be want, and, five minute after seven o'clock, tie a

scarlet hand-kerchief over her head, and step out at the back door.



what with her coal black hair, so streaked with red, her black

eye, flash in the starlight, and her glow cheek, she look

bewitch.



and, thus armed for conquest, wily, yet impassione, she steal out,

with noiseless foot and beat heart, to her appointment with her

imprudent master.









CHAPTER XIV.





the bill be pay; the black horse saddle and bring round to the

door. Mr. and Mrs. Vint stand bareheade to honour the parting guest;

and the latter offer he the stirrup cup.



Griffith look round for mercy; she be nowhere to be see.



then he say, piteously, to Mrs. Vint, "what, not even bid I good-bye?"



Mrs. Vint reply, in a very low voice, that there be no disrespect

intended. "the truth be, sir, she could not trust herself to see you

go; but she bid I give you a message. say she, 'Mother, tell he I

pray God to bless he, go where he will.'"



something rise in Griffith's throat. "oh, dame!" say he, "if she only

know the truth, she would think well of I than she do. God bless

she!"



and he ride sorrowfully away, alone in the world once more.



at the first turn in the road, he wheel his horse, and take a last

linger look.



there be nothing vulgar, nor inn-like, in the "Packhorse." it stand

fifty yard from the road on a little rural green, and be picturesque

itself. the front be entirely clothe with large-leave ivy. shutter

there be none: the window, with their diamond pane, be lustrous

square, set like great eye in the green ivy. it look a pretty,

peaceful retreat, and in it Griffith have find peace, and a dove-like

friend.



he sigh, and ride away from the sight; not rage and convulse, as

when he ride from Hernshaw Castle, but somewhat sick at heart and very

heavy.



he pace so slowly that it take he a quarter of an hour to reach the

"Woodman," a wayside inn not two mile distant. as he go by, a farmer

hail he from the porch, and insist on drink with he; for he

be very popular in the neighbourhood. whilst they be thus employ,

who should come out but Paul Carrick, booted and spur; and flush

in the face, and rather the bad for liquor imbibe on the spot.



"so you be go, be ye?" say he. "a good job too." then, turn to

the other, "Master Gutteridge, never you save a man's life if you can

anywise help it. I save this one's: and what do he do but turn round

and poison my sweetheart against I."



"how can you say so?" remonstrate Griffith. "I never belie you. your

name scarce ever pass my lip."



"don't tell I," say Carrick. "however, she have come to her sense,

and give your worship the sack. ride you into Cumberland, and I to

the 'packhorse,' and take my own again."



with this he unhook his nag from the wall, and clatter off to the

"Packhorse."



Griffith sit a moment stupifie, and then his face be convulse by his

ruling passion. he wheel his horse, give he the spur, and gallop

after Carrick.



he soon come up with he, and yell in his ear, "I'll teach you to

spit your wormwood in my cup of sorrow."



Carrick shake his fist defiantly, and spur his horse in turn.



it be an exciting race, and a novel one; but soon decide. the great

black hunter go ahead, and still improve his advantage. Carrick,

purple with rage, be full a quarter of a mile behind, when Griffith

dash furiously into the stable of the "Packhorse," and, leave

Black Dick pant and cover with foam, run in search of Mercy.



the girl tell he she be in the dairy: he look in at the window, and

there she be with her mother. with instinctive sense and fortitude she

have flee to work. she be try to churn; but it would not do: she have

lay she shapely arm all across the churn, and her head on it, and be

cry. Mrs. Vint be praise Carrick, and offer homely consolation.



"ah, mother," sigh Mercy, "I could have make he happy. he do not

know that; and he have turn his back on content. what will become of

he now?"



Griffith hear no more: he go round to the front door, and rush in.



"take your own way, Dame," say he, in great agitation. "put up the

bann when you like. Sweetheart, wilt wed with I? I'll make thee the

good husband I can."



Mercy scream faintly, and lift up her hand; then she blush and

tremble to her very finger end; but it end in smile of joy and her

brow upon his shoulder. in which attitude, with Mrs. Vint pat he

approvingly on the back, they be surprise by Paul Carrick. he come

to the door, and there stand aghast.



the young man stare ruefully at the picture, and then say, very

drily, "I'm too late, methink."



"that you be, Paul," say Mrs. Vint, cheerfully. "she be meat for your

master."



"Don't--you--never--come to I--to save your life--no more," blubber

Paul, break down all of a sudden.



he then retire, little heed, and come no more to the "packhorse" for

several day.









CHAPTER XV.





it be desirable that improper marriage should never be solemnize: and

the Christian Church see this many hundred year ago, and ordain that

before a marriage, the bann should be cry in a church three Sundays,

and any person there present might forbid the union of the party, and

allege the just impediment.



this precaution be feeble, but not wholly inadequate--in the

middle age; for we know by good evidence that the priest be often

interrupted and the bann forbid.



but in modern day the bann be never forbid: in other word, the

precautionary measure that have come down to we from the thirteenth

century be out of date and useless. it rest, indeed, on an estimate

of publicity, that have become childish. if person about to marry be

compel to inscribe their name and description in a Matrimonial

Weekly Gazette, and a copy of this be place on a desk in ten

thousand church, perhaps we might stop one lady per annum from

marry her husband's brother, and one gentleman from wed his

neighbour's wife. but the crying of bann in a single parish church be

a waste of the people's time and the parson's breath.



and so it prove in Griffith Gaunt's case. the Rev. William Wentworth

publish, in the usual recitative, the bann of marriage between

Thomas Leicester, of the parish of Marylebone in London, and mercy

Vint, spinster, of this parish: and creation, present ex hypothesi

mediævale, but absent in fact, assent, by silence, to the union.



so Thomas Leicester wed Mercy Vint, and take her home to the

"Packhorse."



it would be well if those who stifle their conscience, and commit

crime, would set up a sort of medico-moral diary, and record their

symptom minutely day by day. such record might help to clear away

some vague, conventional notion.



to tell the truth, our hero, and now malefactor (the combination be of

high antiquity), enjoy, for several month, the peace of mind that

belong of right to innocence; and his day pass in a state of smooth

complacency. mercy be a good, wise, and tender wife; she naturally

look up to he after marriage more than she do before: she study

his happiness, as she have never study her own: she master his

character, admire his good quality, discern his weakness, but

do not view they as defect; only as little trait to be watch, lest

she should give pain to "her master," as she call he.



Affection, in she, take a more obsequious form than it could ever

assume in Kate Peyton. and yet she have great influence, and softly

govern "her master" for his good. she would come into the room and

take away the bottle, if he be commit excess; but she have a way

of do it, so like a good but resolute mother, and so unlike a

termagant, that he never resist. upon the whole, she nurse his mind

as, in early day, she have nurse his body.



and then she make he so comfortable; she observe he minutely to that

end. as be the eye of a maid to the hand of her mistress, so Mercy

Leicester's dove-like eye be ever watch "her master's" face, to

learn the minute feature of his mind.



one evening he come in tired, and there be a black fire in the

parlour. his countenance fall the sixteenth of an inch. you and I, sir,

should never have notice it. but Mercy do, and, ever after, there

be a clear fire when he come in.



she note, too, that he love to play the viol da gambo; but dislike

the trouble of tune it. so then she tune it for he.



when he come home at night, early or late, he be sure to find a dry

pair of shoe on the rug, his six-string viol tune to a hair, a

bright fire, and a bright wife smile and radiant at his come, and

always neat: for, say she, "shall I don my bravery for stranger, and

not for my Thomas, that be the good of company?"



they use to go to church, and come back together, hand in hand like

lover: for the arm be rarely give in those day. and Griffith say

to himself every Sunday, "what a comfort to have a protestant wife."



but one day he be off his guard, and call she "Kate, my dear."



"who be Kate?" say she, softly; but with a degree of trouble and

intelligence that make he tremble.



"no matter," say he, all in a flutter: then, solemnly, "whoever she

be, she be dead; dead."



"ah!" say Mercy, very tenderly and solemnly, and under her breath.

"you love she; yet she must die." she pause; then, in a tone so

exquisite I can only call it an angel's whisper, "poor Kate!"



Griffith groan aloud. "for God's sake never mention that name to I

again. let I forget she ever live. she be not the true friend to I

that you have be."



Mercy reply, softly, "say not so, Thomas. you love she well. she

death have all but cost I thine. ah, well! we cannot all be the first.

I be not very jealous, for my part; and I thank God for't. Thou art a

dear good husband to I, and that be enow."



Paul Carrick, unable to break off his habit, come to the "packhorse"

now and then; but Mercy protect her husband's heart from pain.

she be kind, and even pitiful; but so discreet and resolute, and

contrive to draw the line so clearly between her husband and her old

sweetheart, that Griffith's foible could not burn he, for want of

fuel.



and so pass several month, and the man's heart be at peace. he

could not love Mercy passionately as he have love Kate; but he be full

of real regard and esteem for she: it be one of those gentle, cling

attachment that outlast grand passion, and survive till death; a

tender, pure affection; though build upon a crime.



they have be marry, and live in sweet content, about three quarter

of a year--when trouble come; but in a vulgar form. a murrain carry

off several of Harry Vint's cattle; and it then come out that he have

purchase six of they on credit, and have be induce to set his hand

to bill of exchange for they. his rent be also behind, and, in fact,

his affair be in a desperate condition.



he hide it as long as he could from they all; but, at last, be

serve with a process for debt, and threaten with a distress, and an

execution, he call a family council and expose the real state of

thing.



Mrs. Vint rate he soundly for keep all this secret so long.



he whom they call Thomas Leicester remonstrate with he. "have you

tell I in time," say he, "I have not pay forfeit for 'the Vine,' but

settle there, and give you a home."



Mercy say never a word but "poor father!"



as the peril draw nearer, the conversation become more animate and

agitated, and soon the old people take to complain of Thomas

Leicester to his wife.



"Thou hast marry a gentleman; and he hath not the heart to lift a

hand to save thy folk from ruin."



"say not so," plead mercy: "to be sure he hath the heart, but not

the mean. 'Twas but yestreen he bid I sell his jewel for you. but,

mother, I think they belong to some one he love; and she die. so,

poor thing, how could I? then, if you love I, blame I, and not he."



"Jewels, quotha! will they stop such a gap as ours?" be the

contemptuous reply.



from complain of he behind his back, the old people soon come to

launch innuendo obliquely at he. here be one speciman out of a

dozen.



"Wife, if our mercy have wed one of her own sort, mayhap he'd have

help we a bit."



"ay, poor soul; and she so near her time: if the bailiff come down on

we next month 'tis my belief we shall lose she as well as house and

home."



the false Thomas Leicester let they run on, in dogged silence; but

every word be a stab.



and, one day, when he have be bait sore with hint, he turn round

on they fiercely, and say, "do I get you into this mess? it's all

your own doing. learn to see your own fault, and not be so hard on one

that have be the good servant you ever have, gentleman or not."



man can resist the remonstrance that wound they, and so irritate they,

well than they can those gentle appeal that rouse no anger, but

soften the whole heart. the old people sting he; but Mercy, without

design, take a surer way. she never say a word; but sometimes, when

the discussion be at their height, she turn her dove-like eye on

he, with a look so loving, so humbly inquire, so timidly implore,

that his heart melt within he.



ah, that be a true touch of nature, and genuine observation of the

sex, in the old song--



    my feyther urge I sair;

    my mither didna speak;

    but she look I in the face,

    till my hairt be like to break.



these silent, womanly, implore look of patient Mercy, be mighty

than argument, or invective.



the man know all along where to get money, and how to get it. he have

only to go to Hernshaw Castle. but his very soul shudder at the idea.

however, for Mercy's sake, he take the first step: he compel himself

to look the thing in the face, and discuss it with himself. a few

month ago he could not have do this, he love his lawful wife too

much; hate she too much. but now, Mercy, and Time, have blunt both

those passion; and he could ask himself whether he could not encounter

Kate and her priest without any very violent emotion.



when they first set up house together, he have spend his whole fortune,

a sum of two thousand pound, on repair and embellish Hernshaw

Castle and ground. since she have drive he out of the house, he have a

clear right to have back the money; and now he resolve he would have

it; only what he want be to get it without go to the place in

person.



and now Mercy's figure, as well as her implore look, move he

greatly. she be in that condition which appeal to a man's humanity,

and masculine pity, as well as to his affection. to use the homely

word of scripture, she be great with child: and, in that condition,

move slowly about he, fill his pipe, and lay his slipper, and

minister to all his little comfort; she would make no difference:

and when he see the poor dove move about he so heavily, and rather

languidly, yet so zealously and tenderly, the man's very bowel yearn

over she, and he feel as if he could die to do she a service.



so, one day, when she be stand by he, bend over his little

round table, and fill his pipe with her neat hand, he take she by

the other hand and draw she gently on his knee, her burden and all.



"child!" say he, "do not thou fret. I know how to get money; and I'll

do't, for thy sake."



"I know that," say she, softly; "can I no read thy face by this

time?" and so lay her cheek to his. "but, Thomas, for my sake, get it

honestly; or not at all," say she, still fill his pipe, with she

cheek to his, "I'll but take back my own," say he; "fear nought."



but, after thus positively pledge himself to Mercy, he become

thoughtful and rather fretful; for he be still most averse to go to

Hernshaw, and yet could hit upon no other way; since to employ an agent

would be to let out that he have commit bigamy; and so risk his own

neck, and break Mercy's heart.



after all his scale be turn by his foible.



Mrs. Vint have be weak enough to confide her trouble to a friend: it

be all over the parish in three day.



well, one day, in the kitchen of the inn, Paul Carrick having drink two

pint of good ale, say to vint, "Landlord, you ought to have marry

she to I. I've get two hundred pound lay by. I'd have pull you out

of the mire, and welcome."



"would you, though, Paul?" say Harry Vint; "then, by G----, I wish I

have."



now Carrick bawl that out, and Griffith, who be at the door, hear

it.



he walk into the kitchen, ghastly pale, and speak to Harry Vint

first.



"I take your inn, your farm, and your debt, on I," say he; "not one

without t'other."



"speak like a man!" cry the landlord, joyfully: "and so be it--before

these witness."



Griffith turn on Carrick: "this house be mine. get out on't, ye

jealous, mischief-making cur." and he take he by the collar and

drag he furiously out of the place, and send he whirl into the

middle of the road; then run back for his hat and fling it out after

he.



this do, he sit down boiling, and his eye rove fiercely round the

room in search of some other antagonist. but his strength be so great,

and his face so alter with this sudden spasm of revive jealousy,

that nobody care to provoke he far.



after a while, however, Harry Vint mutter, drily, "there go one

good customer."



Griffith take he up sternly: "if your debt be to be mine, your

trade shall be mine too, that you have not the head to conduct."



"so be it, son-in-law," say the old man; "only you go so fast: you do

take possession afore you pay the fee."



Griffith wince. "that shall be the last of your taunt, old man." he

turn to the ostler, "Bill, give Black Dick his oats at sunrise: and

in ten day at farth I'll pay every shilling this house and farm do

owe. now, Master White, you'll put in hand a new sign-board for this

inn; a fresh 'packhorse,' and paint he jet black, with one white

hoof (instead of chocolate), in honour of my nag Dick; and in place of

Harry Vint you'll put in Thomas Leicester. see that be do against I

come back, or come you here no more." soon after this scene he retire

to tell Mercy: and on his departure, the suppress tongue go like

mill-clack.



Dick come round saddle at peep of day; but mercy have be up more

than an hour, and prepare her man's breakfast. she cling to he at

parting, and cry a little; and whisper something in his ear, for

nobody else to hear: it be an entreaty that he would not be long go,

lest he should be far from she in the hour of her peril.



thereupon he promise she, and kiss she tenderly, and bade she be of

good heart; and so ride away northward with dog resolution.



as soon as he be go, Mercy's tear flow without restraint.



her father set himself to console she. "thy good man," he say, "be but

go back to the high road for a night or two, to follow his trade of

'stand and deliver.' fear nought, child; his pistol be well prime; I

see to that myself; and his horse be the fleet in the county; you'll

have he back in three day, and money in both pocket. I warrant you

his be a well trade than mine; and he be a fool to change it."



Griffith be two day upon the road, and all that time he be turn

over and discuss in his mind how he should conduct the disagreeable

but necessary business he have undertake.



he determine, at last, to make the visit one of business only: no

heat; no reproach. that lovely, hateful woman might continue to

dishonour his name, for he have himself abandon it. he would not deign

to receive any money that be her; but his own two thousand pound he

would have: and two or three hundred on the spot by way of instalment.

and, with these hard view, he draw near to Hernshaw; but the nearer he

get, the slow he go; for, what at a distance have seem tolerably

easy, begin to get more and more difficult, and repulsive. moreover,

his heart, which he think he have steel, begin now to flutter a

little, and somehow to shudder at the approach interview.









CHAPTER XVI.





Caroline Ryder go to the gate of the Grove, and stay there two

hour; but, of course, no Griffith come.



she return the next night, and the next: and then she give it up, and

await an explanation. none come, and she be bitterly disappointed,

and indignant.



she begin to hate Griffith, and to conceive a certain respect, and even

a tepid friendship, for the other woman he have insult.



another clue to this change of feeling be to be find in a word she let

drop in talk to another servant. "sly mistress," say she, "bear

it like a man."



in fact, Mrs. Gaunt's conduct at this period be truly noble.



she suffer month of torture, month of grief; but the high-spirit

creature hide it from the world, and maintain a sad but high composure.



she wear her black, for she say, "how do I know he be alive?" she

retrench her establishment, reduce her expense two-third; and

busy herself in work of charity and religion.



her desolate condition attract a gentleman who have once love she,

and now esteem and pity she profoundly: Sir George Neville.



he be still unmarried, and she be the cause; so far at least as this:

she have put he out of conceit with the other lady at that period

when he have serious thought of marriage: and the inclination to marry

at all have not since return.



if the Gaunts have settle at Bolton, Sir George would have be their

near neighbour; but Neville's Court be nine mile from Hernshaw

Castle: and when they meet, which be not very often, Mrs. Gaunt be on

her guard to give Griffith no shadow of uneasiness. she be therefore

rather more dignified and distant with Sir George, than her own

inclination and his merit would have prompt; for he be a superior

and very agreeable man.



when it become quite certain that her husband have leave she, Sir George

ride up to Hernshaw Castle, and call upon she.



she beg to be excuse from see he.



now, Sir George be universally court, and this rather nettle

he: however, he soon learn that she receive nobody except a few

religious friend of her own sex.



Sir George then write she a letter that do he credit; it be full of

worthy sentiment and good sense. for instance, he say he desire to

intrude his friendly office and his sympathy upon she, but nothing

more. Time have cure he of those warm feeling which have once

ruffle his peace; but time could not efface his tender esteem for

the lady he have love in his youth, nor his profound respect for her

character.



Mrs. Gaunt weep over his gentle letter, and be on the verge of ask

herself why she have choose Griffith instead of this chevalier. she send

he a sweet, yet prudent reply; she do not encourage he to visit she;

but say, that, if ever she should bring herself to receive visit from

the gentleman of the county during her husband's absence, he should

be the first to know it. she sign herself his unhappy, but deeply

grateful, servant and friend.



one day, as she come out of a poor woman's cottage, with a little

basket on her arm, which she have empty in the cottage, she meet Sir

George Neville full.



he take his hat off, and make she a profound bow. he be then about to

ride on, but alter his mind, and dismount to speak to she.



the interview be constrain at first; but ere long he venture to

tell she she really ought to consult with some old friend and practical

man like himself. he would undertake to scour the country, and find she

husband, if he be above ground.



"I go a hunting the man," cry she, turn red; "not if he be my

king as well as my husband. he know where to find I; and that be

enough."



"well, but madam, would you not like to learn where he be, and what he

be do?"



"why, yes, my good, kind friend, I should like to know that." and

having pronounce these word with apparent calmness, she burst out

cry, and almost run away from he.



Sir George look sadly after she; and form a worthy resolution.

he see there be but one road to her regard. he resolve to hunt she

husband for she, without intrude on she, or give she a voice in

the matter. Sir George be a magistrate, and accustom to organize

inquiry. spite of the length of time that have elapse, he trace

Griffith for a considerable distance; pende further inquiry, he

send Mrs. Gaunt word that the truant have not make for the sea, but have

go due south.



Mrs. Gaunt return he her warm thank for this scrap of information.

so long as Griffith remain in the island there be always a hope he

might return to she. the money he have take would soon be exhaust:

and poverty might drive he to she; and she be so far humble by

grief, that she could welcome he even on those term.



affliction temper the proud. Mrs. Gaunt be deeply injure as well as

insult; but, for all that, in her many day and week of solitude

and sorrow, she take herself to task, and see her fault. she become

more gentle, more considerate of her servant' feeling, more womanly.



for many month she could not enter "the Grove." the spirited woman's

very flesh revolt at the sight of the place where she have be

insult and abandon. but as she go deeply in religion, she force

herself to go to the gate and look in, and say out loud, "I give the

first offence," and then she would go in-door again, quiver with

the internal conflict.



finally, be a Catholic, and therefore attach more value to

self-torture than we do, the poor soul make this very grove her place

of penance once a week she have the fortitude to drag herself to the

very spot where Griffith have denounce she; and there she would kneel

and pray for he and for herself. and, certainly, if humility and

self-abasement be quality of the body, here be to be see their

picture; for her way be to set she crucifix up at the foot of a tree;

then to bow herself all down, between kneeling and lying; and put she

lip meekly to the foot of the crucifix and so pray long and earnestly.



now, one day, while she be thus crouch in prayer, a gentleman,

boot, and spur, and splash, draw near, with hesitate step.

she be so absorb, she do not hear those step at all, till they

be very near; but then she tremble all over; for her delicate ear

recognize a manly tread she have not hear for many a day. she dare

not move nor look, for she think it be a mere sound, send to she by

heaven to comfort she.



but the next moment a well-know mellow voice come like a thunder-clap,

it shake she so.



"forgive I, my good dame, but I desire to know----"



the question go no far, for Kate Gaunt spring to her foot, with

a loud scream, and stand glare at Griffith Gaunt, and he at she.



and thus husband and wife meet again--meet, by some strange caprice of

Destiny, on the very spot where they have part so horribly.









CHAPTER XVII.





the gaze these two person bent on one another may be half imagine; it

can never be describe.



Griffith speak first. "in black!" say he, in a whisper.



his voice be low; his face, though pale and grim, have not the terrible

aspect he wear at parting.



so she think he have come back in an amicable spirit; and she fly to

he with a cry of love, and throw her arm round his neck, and pant on

his shoulder.



at this reception, and the tremulous contact of one he have love so

dearly, a strange shudder run through his frame: a shudder that mark

his present repugnance, yet indicate her latent power.



he himself feel he have betray some weakness; and it be all the bad

for she: he catch her wrist and put she from he, not roughly, but

with a look of horror. "the day be go by for that, madam," he gasp.

then, sternly: "think you I come here to play the credulous husband?"



Mrs. Gaunt draw back in her turn, and falter out, "what! come back

here, and not sorry for what you have do? not the least sorry? oh, my

heart! you have almost break it."



"Prithee, no more of this," say Griffith, sternly. "you and I be

nought to one another now, and for ever. but there, you be but a

woman, and I do not come to quarrel with you." and he fix his eye

on the ground.



"thank God for that," falter Mrs. Gaunt. "oh, sir, the sight of

you--the thought of what you be to I once--till jealousy blind

you. lend I your arm, if you be a man; my limb do fail I."



the shock have be too much; a pallor over-spread her lovely feature,

her knee knock together, and she be totter like some tender tree

cut down, when Griffith, who, with all his fault, be a man, put out

his strong arm, and she cling to it, quiver all over, and weeping

hysterically.



that little hand, with its little feminine clutch, tremble on his

arm, raise a certain male compassion for her piteous condition; and

he bestow a few cold, sad, word of encouragement on she. "come,

come," say he, gently; "I shall not trouble you long. I'm cure of my

jealousy. 'tis go, along with my love. you and your saintly sinner

be safe from I. I be come hither for my own, my two thousand pound,

and for nothing more."



"ah! you be come back for money, not for I?" she murmur, with

force calmness.



"for money; and not for you, of course," say he, coldly.



the word wear hardly out of his month, when the proud lady fling his

arm from she. "then money shall you have, and not I; nor ought of I

but my contempt."



but she could not carry it off as heretofore. she turn she back

haughtily on he; but, at the first step, she burst out cry. "come,

and I'll give you what you be come for," she sob. "ungrateful!

heartless! oh, how little I know this man!"



she creep away before he, droop her head, and cry bitterly; and

he follow she, hang his head, and ill at ease; for there be such

true passion in her voice, her stream eye, and indeed in her whole

body, that he be move, and the part he be play revolt he. he

feel confused and troubled, and ask himself how on earth it be that

she, the guilty one, contrive to appear the injure one, and make he,

the wrong one, feel almost remorseful.



Mrs. Gaunt take no more notice of he now than if he have be a dog

follow at her heel. she go into the drawing-room, and sink

helplessly on the near couch; throw her head wearily back, and shut

her eye. yet the tear trickle through the closed lid.



Griffith catch up a hand-bell, and ring it vigorously.



quick light step be soon hear pattering; and in dart Caroline

Ryder, with an anxious face; for of late she have conceive a certain

sober regard for her mistress, who have cease to be her successful

rival, and who bear her grief like a man.



at sight of Griffith, Ryder scream aloud, and stand pant.



Mrs. Gaunt open her eye. "ay, child, he have come home," say she,

bitterly; "his body, but not his heart."



she stretch her hand out feebly, and point to a bottle of salt

that stand on the table. ryder run and put they to her nostril. Mrs.

Gaunt whisper in her ear, "send a swift horse for Father Francis;

tell he, life or death!"



Ryder give she a very intelligent look, and presently slip out, and

run into the stable-yard.



at the gate she catch sight of Griffith's horse. what do this

quick-witted creature do but send the groom off on that horse, and not

on Mrs. Gaunt's.



"now, Dame," say Griffith, doggedly, "be you well?"



"ay, I thank you."



"then listen to I. when you and I set up house together, I have two

thousand pound. I spend it on this house. the house be yours. you

tell I so, one day, you know."



"ah, you can remember my fault."



"I remember all, Kate."



"thank you, at least, for call I Kate. well, Griffith, since you

abandon we, I think, and think, and think, of all that might

befall you; and I say, 'what will he do for money? my jewel, that

you do I the honour to take, would not last you long, I fear. so I

reduce my expense three-fourth at least, and I put by some money for

your need."



Griffith look amazed. "for my need?" say he.



"for whose else? I'll send for it, and place it in your

hand--to-morrow."



"to-morrow? why not to-day?"



"I have a favour to ask of you first."



"what be that?"



"Justice. if you be fond of money, I too have something I prize: my

honour. you have belie and insult I, sir; but I know you be

under a delusion. I mean to remove that delusion, and make you see

how little I be to blame: for, alas! I own I be imprudent. but, oh

Griffith! as I hope to be save, it be the imprudence of innocence and

over-confidence."



"mistress," say Griffith, in a stern, yet agitated voice, "be advise,

and leave all this: rouse not a man's sleep wrath. let bygone be

bygone."



Mrs. Gaunt rise, and say, faintly, "so be it. I must go, sir, and give

some order for your entertainment."



"oh; don't put yourself about for I," say Griffith, "I be not the

master of this house."



Mrs. Gaunts lip tremble, but she be a match for he. "then be you my

guest," say she; "and my credit be concern in your comfort."



she make he a curtsy, as if he be a stranger, and march to the

door, conceal, with great pride and art, a certain trembling of her

knee.



at the door she find Ryder, and bade her follow, much to that lady's

disappointment; for she desire a tête-à-tête with Griffith, and an

explanation.



as soon as the two woman be out of Griffith's hearing, the mistress

lay her hand on the servant's arm, and, give way to her feeling,

say, all in a flutter, "child, if I have be a good mistress to thee,

show it now. help I keep he in the house till Father Francis come."



"I undertake to do so much," say Ryder, firmly. "leave it to I,

mistress."



Mrs. Gaunt throw her arm round Ryder's neck and kiss she.



it be do so ardently, and by a woman hitherto so dignified and

proud, that Ryder be take by surprise, and almost affected.



as for the service Mrs. Gaunt have ask of she, it suit her own

design.



"mistress," say she, "be rule by I; keep out of his way a-bit,

while I get Miss Rose ready. you understand."



"ah! I have one true friend in the house," say poor Mrs. Gaunt. she

then confide in Ryder, and go away to give her own order for

Griffith's reception.



Ryder find little Rose, dress she to perfection, and tell she her

dear papa be come home. she then work upon the child's mind in that

subtle way know to woman, so that Rose go downstairs load and

prime, though no distinct instruction have be give she.



as for Griffith, he walk up and down, uneasy; and wish he have

stay at the "Packhorse." he have not bargain for all these emotion;

the peace of mind he have enjoy for some month seem trickle away.



"Mercy, my dear," say he, to himself, "'twill be a dear penny to I, I

doubt."



then he go to the window, and look at the lawn, and sigh. then

he sit down, and thought of the past.



Whilst he sit thus moody, the door open very softly, and a little

cherubic face, with blue eye and golden hair, peep in. Griffith

start. "ah!" cry Rose, with a joyful scream: and out fly her

little arm, and away she come, half run, half dancing, and be on

his knee in a moment, with her arm round his neck.



"Papa! papa!" she cry. "oh, my dear, dear, dear, darling papa!" and

she kiss and pat his cheek again and again.



her innocent endearment move he to tear. "my pretty angel!" he

sigh: "my lamb!"



"how your heart beat: don't cry, dear papa. nobody be dead: only we

think you be. I'm so glad you be come home alive. now we can take

off this nasty black: I hate it."



"what, 'tis for I you wear it, pretty one?"



"ay. Mamma make we. poor mamma have be so unhappy. and that remind

I: you be a wicked man, papa. but I love you all one for that. it tis

so dull when everybody be good like mamma; and she make I dreadfully

good too; but now you be come back, there will be a little, little,

wickedness again, it be to be hope. ben't you glad you be not dead,

and be come home instead? I be."



"I be glad I have see thee. come, take my hand, and let we go look at

the old place."



"ay. but you must wait till I get on my new hat and feather."



"Nay, nay; art pretty enough bareheade."



"oh, papa! but I must, for decency. you be company now, you know."



"dull company, sweetheart, thou'lt find I."



"I don't mean that: I mean, when you be here always, you be only

papa; but now you come once in an age, you're COMPANY. I willn't budge

without 'em; so there, now."



"well, little one, I do submit to thy hat and feather: only be quick or

I shall go forth without thee."



"if you dare," say Rose, impetuously: "for I willn't be half a moment."



she run and extort from Ryder the new hat and feather, which by

right she be not to have wear until next month.



Griffith and his little girl go all over the well-know premise, he

sad and moody, she excite and chattering, and nod her head down,

and cock her eye up every now and then, to get a glimpse of she

feather.



"and don't you go away again, dear papa. it tis so dull without you.

nobody come here. Mamma willn't let 'em."



"nobody except Father Leonard," say Griffith, bitterly.



"Father Leonard? why, he never come here. Leonard! that be the

beautiful priest that use to pat I on the head, and bid I love and

honour my parent. and so I do. only mamma be always cry, and you

keep away: so how can I love and honour you, when I never see you, and

they keep tell I you be good for nothing, and dead."



"my young mistress, when do you see Father Leonard last?" say

Griffith, gnaw his lip.



"how can I tell? why it be mile ago; when I be a mere girl. you know

he go away before you do."



"I know nothing of the kind. tell I the truth now. he have visit here

since I go away."



"Nay, papa."



"that be strange. she visit he, then?"



"what, mamma? she seldom stir out; and never beyond the village. we

keep no carriage now. Mamma be turn such a miser. she be afraid you

will be poor; so she put it all by for you. but now you be come, we

shall have carriage and thing again. oh, by-the-by, Father Leonard! I

hear they say he have leave England, so I do."



"when be that?"



"well, I think that be a little bit after you go away."



"that be strange," say Griffith, thoughtfully.



he lead his little girl by the hand, but scarcely listen to her

prattle; he be so surprised and puzzle by the information he have

elicit from she.



upon the whole, however, he conclude that his wife and the priest have

perhaps be smite with remorse, and have parted,--when it be too

late.



this, and the peace of mind he have find elsewhere, somewhat soften

his feeling towards they. "so," think he, "they be not harden

creature after all. poor Kate!"



as these milder feeling gain on he, Rose suddenly utter a joyful

cry; and, look up, he see Mrs. Gaunt come towards he, and ryder

behind she. both be in gay colour, which, in fact, be what have so

delighted Rose.



they come up, and Mrs. Gaunt seem a change woman. she look young

and beautiful, and bent a look of angelic affection on her daughter;

and say to Griffith, "be she not grow? be she not lovely? sure you

will never desert she again."



"'twas not she I desert, but her mother; and she have play I false

with her d----d priest," be Griffith's reply.



Mrs. Gaunt draw back with horror. "this, before my girl?" she cry.

"Griffith Gaunt, you lie!"



and this time it be the woman who menace the man. she rise to six

foot high, and advance on he with her great grey eye flash flame

at he. "oh, that I be a man!" she cry: "this insult should be the

last. I'd lay you dead at her foot and mine."



Griffith actually draw back a step; for the wrath of such a woman be

terrible; more terrible perhaps to a brave man than to a coward.



then he put his hand in his pocket with a dog air; and say,

grind his tooth: "but--as you be not a man, and I'm not a woman, we

cann't settle it that way. so I give you the last word, and good day.

I'm sore in want of money; but I find I cann't pay the price it be like

to cost I. farewell."



"begone!" say Mrs. Gaunt: "and, this time, for ever. ruffian, and

fool, I loathe the sight of you."



Rose run weep to she. "oh, mamma, don't quarrel with papa:" then

back to Griffith, "oh, papa, don't quarrel with mamma--for my sake."



Griffith hang his head, and say, in a broken voice: "no, my lamb,

we twain must not quarrel before thee. we will part in silence, as

become those that once be dear, and have thee to show for't. Madam,

I wish you all health and happiness. adieu."



he turn on his heel; and Mrs. Gaunt take Rose to her knee, and bent

and weep over she. niobe over her last be not more graceful, nor more

sad.



as for Ryder she steal quietly after her retire master. she find he

peer about, and ask he demurely what he be look for.



"my good black horse, girl, to take I from this cursed place. do I

not tie he to your gate?"



"the black horse? why I send he for Father Francis. Nay, listen to I,

master; you know I be always your friend, and hard upon she. well,

since you go, thing have come to pass that make I doubt. I do begin

to fear you be too hasty."



"do you tell I this now, woman?" cry Griffith, furiously.



"how could I tell you before? why do you break your tryst with I? if

you have come accord to your letter, I'd have tell you month ago

what I tell you now; but, as I be say, the priest never come near

she after you leave; and she never stir abroad to meet he. More than

that, he have leave England."



"remorse! too late."



"perhaps it may, sir. I couldn't say; but there be one come that

know the very truth."



"who be that?"



"Father Francis. the moment you come, sir, I take it on I to send for

he. you know the man: he willn't tell a lie to please our Dame. and he

know all: for Leonard have confess to he. I listen and hear he

say as much. then, master, be advise, and get the truth from Father

Francis."



Griffith tremble. "Francis be an honest man," say he; "I'll wait till

he come. but oh, my lass, I find money may be buy too dear."



"your chamber be ready, sir; and your clothe put out. supper be

order. let I show you your room. we be all so happy now."



"well," say he, listlessly, "since my horse be go, and Francis

come, and I'm weary and sick of the world, do what you will with I

for this one day."



he follow she mechanically to a bedroom, where be a bright fire, and

a fine shirt, and his silver-laced suit of clothe air.



a sense of luxurious comfort strike he at the sight.



"ay," he say, "I'll dress, and so to supper; I'm main hungry. it seem

a man must eat, let his heart be ever so sore."



before she leave he, Ryder ask he coldly why he have break his

appointment with she.



"that be too long a story to tell you now," say he, coolly.



"another time then," say she; and go out smile, but bitter at

heart.



Griffith have a good wash, and enjoy certain little convenience which

he have not at the "Packhorse." he doff his riding suit, and don

the magnificent dress Ryder have select for he; and with his fine

clothe he somehow put on more ceremonious manner.



he come down to the dining-room. to his surprise he find it

illuminate with wax candle, and the table and sideboard gorgeous with

plate.



Supper soon smoke upon the board; but, though it be set for three,

nobody else appear.



Griffith inquire of Ryder whether he be to sup alone.



she reply, "my mistress desire you not to wait for she. she have no

stomach."



"well, then, I have," say Griffith; and fall o with a will.



Ryder, who wait on this occasion, stand and eye he with curiosity.

his conduct be so unlike a woman's.



just as he conclude, the door open, and a burly form enter.

Griffith rise and embrace he with his arm and lip, after the

fashion of the day. "welcome, thou one honest priest!" say he.



"welcome, thrice welcome, my long-lose son!" say the cordial Francis.



"sit down, man, and eat with I. I'll begin again, for you."



"presently, Squire; I've work to do first. go thou and bid thy mistress

to come hither to I."



Ryder, to whom this be address, go out, and leave the gentleman

together.



Father Francis draw out of his pocket two packet, carefully tie and

seal. he take a knife from the table and cut the string, and break

the seal. Griffith eye he with curiosity.



Father Francis look at he. "these," say he, very gravely, "be

the letter that Brother Leonard hath write, at sundry time, to

Catherine Gaunt, and these be the letter Catherine Gaunt hath write

to Brother Leonard."



Griffith tremble, and his face be convulse.



"let I read they at once," say he: and stretch out his hand, with

eye like a dog's in the dark.



Francis withdraw they, quietly. "not till she be also present," say he.



at that Griffith's good-nature, multiply by a good supper, take the

alarm. "come, come, sir," say he, "have a little mercy. I know you be

a just man, and, though a boon companion, most severe in all matter

of morality. but, I tell you plainly, if you be go to drag this

poor woman in the dirt, I shall go out of the room. what be the use

torment she? I've tell she my mind before her own child: and now I

wish I have not. when I catch they in the Grove I lift my hand to

strike she, and she never wince; I have well have leave that alone

too, methink. D--n the woman: you be always in the wrong if you treat

'em like man. they be not wicked; they be weak. and this one hath

lain in my bosom, and bear I two child, and one he lieth in the

churchyard, and t'other hath her hair and my very eye: and the truth

be, I cann't bear any man on earth to miscall she but myself. God help

I: I doubt I love she still too well to sit by and see she torture.

she be all in black for her fault, poor penitent wretch. give I the

letter; but let she be."



Francis be move by this appeal, but shake his head solemnly; and, ere

Griffith could renew his argument, the door be fling open by Ryder,

and a stately figure sail in that take both the gentleman by surprise.



it be Mrs. Gaunt, in full dress. rich brocade that sweep the ground:

magnificent bust, like parian marble varnish; and on her brow a

diadem of emerald and diamond that give her beauty an imperial stamp.



she sweep into the room as only fine woman can sweep, make Griffith

a haughty curtsy, and suddenly lower her head, and receive Father

Francis's blessing: then seat herself, and quietly await event.



"the brazen jade!" think Griffith. "but how divinely beautiful!" and

he become as agitated as she be calm--in appearance. for, need I say

her calmness be put on? Defensive armour make for she by her pride and

her sex.



the voice of Father Francis now rise, solid, grave, and too impressive

to be interrupt.



"my daughter, and you who be her husband and my friend, I be here to

do justice between you both, with God's help; and to show you both your

fault.



"Catherine Gaunt, you begin the mischief, by encouraging; another man

to interfere between you and your husband in thing secular."



"but, father, he be my director, my priest."



"my daughter, do you believe, with the Protestants, that marriage be

a mere civil contract; or do you hold, with we, that it be one of the

holy sacrament?"



"can you ask I?" murmur Kate, reproachfully.



"well, then, those whom God and the whole Church have in holy sacrament

united, what right hath a single priest to disunite in heart, and make

the wife false to any part whatever of that most holy vow? I hear,

and not from you, that Leonard do set you against your husband's

friend, withdraw you from society, and send he abroad alone. in

one word, he rob your husband of his companion and his friend. the

sin be Leonard's: but the fault be your. you be five year old

than Leonard, and a woman of sense and experience; he but a boy by

comparison. what right have you to surrender your understanding, in a

matter of this kind, to a poor silly priest, fresh from his seminary,

and as manifestly without a grain of common sense as he be full of

piety?"



this remonstrance produce rather a striking effect on both those who

hear it. Mrs. Gaunt seem much strike with it. she lean back in her

chair, and put her hand to her brow with a sort of despairing gesture

that Griffith could not very well understand: it seem to he so

disproportionate.



it soften he, however, and he falter out, "ay, father, that be how

it all begin. would to heaven it have stop there."



Francis resume. "this false step lead to consequence you never dream

of; for one of your romantic notion be, that a priest be an angel.

I have know you, in former time, try to take I for an angel: then

would I throw cold water on your folly by call lustily for chine of

beef and mug of ale. but I suppose Leonard think himself an angel

too; and the upshot be, he fall in love with his neighbour's wife."



"and she with he," groan Griffith.



"not so," say Francis; "but perhaps she be near it than she think."



"prove that," say Mrs. Gaunt, "and I'll fall on my knee to he before

you."



Francis smile, and proceed. "to be sure, from the moment you

discover Leonard be in love with you, you draw back, and conduct

yourself with prudence and propriety. read these letter, sir, and tell

I what you think of they."



he hand they to Griffith. Griffith's hand tremble visibly as he take

they.



"stay," say Father Francis; "your well way will be to read the

whole correspondence accord to their date. begin with this of Mrs.

Gaunt's."



Griffith read the letter in an audible whisper.



Mrs. Gaunt turn her head a little, and for the first time lower her

eye to the ground.





END of VOL. II.









griffith GAUNT; OR, JEALOUSY



BY CHARLES READE



in three Volumes. Vol III



London



CHAPMAN and HALL, 193, PICCADILLY



1866









table of content





    CHAPTER   I

    CHAPTER   II

    CHAPTER   III

    CHAPTER   IV

    CHAPTER   V

    chapter   VI

    chapter   VII

    CHAPTER   VIII

    chapter   IX

    CHAPTER   x

    chapter   XI

    CHAPTER   XII

    chapter   XIII

    chapter   XIV

    CHAPTER   XV









CHAPTER I





    "DEAR FATHER and FRIEND,--The word you speak to I to-day

    admit but one meaning; you be jealous of my husband.



    "then you must be--how can I write it?--almost in love with I."



    "so then my poor husband be wise than I. he see a rival in

    you: and he have one.



    "I be deeply, deeply shocked. I ought to be very angry too;

    but, think of your solitary condition, and all the good you

    have do to my soul, my heart have no place for ought but pity.

    only, as I be in my sense, and you be not, you must now obey

    I, as heretofore I have obey you. you must seek another

    sphere of duty without delay.



    "these seem harsh word from I to you. you will live to see

    they be kind one.



    "write I one line, and no more, to say you will be rule by I

    in this.



    "God and the saint have you in their holy keeping. so pray

    your affectionate and



    "sorrowful daughter and true friend,



                                                "CATHERINE GAUNT."



"poor soul!" say Griffith. "say I not that woman be not wicked, but

weak? who would think that after this he could get the well of her

good resolve--the villain!"



"now read his reply," say Father Francis.



"ay," say Griffith. "so this be his one word of reply, be it? three

page closely writ--the villain, oh the villain!"



"read the villain's letter," say Francis, calmly.



the letter be very humble and pathetic; the reply of a good, though

err man, who own, that in a moment of weakness, he have be

betray into a feeling inconsistent with his holy profession. he

beg his correspondent, however, not to judge he quite so hardly. he

remind she of his solitary life, his natural melancholy, and assure

she that all man in his condition have moment when they envy those

whose bosom have partner. "such a cry of anguish," say he, "be once

rung from a maiden queen, maugre all her pride. the queen of Scots hath

a son: and I be but a barren stock." he go on to say that prayer

and vigilance united do much. "do not despair so soon of I. flight

be not cure: let I rather stay and, with God's help and the saint',

overcome this unhappy weakness. if I fail, it will indeed be time for

I to go and never again see the angelic face of my daughter and my

benefactress."



Griffith lay down the letter. he be somewhat soften by it; and

say, gently, "I cannot understand it. this be not the letter of a

thorough bad man neither."



"no," say Father Francis, coldly, "'tis the letter of a self-deceiver:

and there be no more dangerous man, to himself and other, than your

self-deceiver. but now let we see whether he can throw dust in her

eye, as well as his own." and he hand he Kate's reply.



the first word of it be, "you deceive yourself." the writer then

insist, quietly, that he owe it to himself, to she, and to her

husband, whose happiness he be destroy, to leave the place at her

request.



"either you must go, or I," say she: "and pray let it be you. also

this place be unworthy of your high gift: and I love you, in my way,

the way I mean to love you when we meet again--in Heaven; and I labour

your advancement to a sphere more worthy of you."



I wish space permit I to lay the whole correspondence before the

reader; but I must confine myself to its general purport.



it proceed in this way: the priest, humble, eloquent, pathetic; but

gently, yet pertinaciously, cling to the place: the lady, gentle,

wise, and firm, detach with her soft finger, first one hand, then

another, of the poor priest's, till at last he be drive to the sorry

excuse that he have no money to travel with, nor place to go to.



"I cann't understand it," say Griffith. "be these letter all forge,

or be there two Kate Gaunts? the one that write these prudent letter,

and the one I catch upon this very priest's arm. perdition!"



Mrs. Gaunt start to her foot. "methink 'tis time for I to leave the

room," say she, scarlet.



"gently, my good friend; one thing at a time," say Francis. "sit thou

down, impetuous. the letter, sir, what think you of they?"



"I see no harm in they," say Griffith.



"no harm! be that all? but I say these be very remarkable letter,

sir: and they show we that a woman may be innocent and unsuspicious,

and so seem foolish, yet may be wise for all that. in her early

communication with Leonard



    '----at Wisdom's gate Suspicion sleep;

    and think no ill where no ill seem.'



but, you see, suspicion be once arouse, wisdom be not to be lull

nor blind. but that be not all: these letter breathe a spirit of

christian charity; of true, and rare, and exalt piety; tender be

they, without passion; wise, yet not cold; full of conjugal love, and

of filial pity for an err father, whom she lead, for his good, with

firm yet dutiful hand. trust to my great experience: doubt the chastity

of snow rather than hers who could write these pure and exquisite

line. my good friend, you hear I rebuke and sneer at this poor lady,

for be too innocent and unsuspicious of man's frailty: now hear I

own to you that I could no more have write these angelic letter,

than a barn-door fowl could soar to the mansion of the saint in

heaven."



this unexpected tribute take Mrs. Gaunt's heart by storm; she throw she

arm round Father Francis's neck, and weep upon his shoulder.



"ah!" she sob, "you be the only one leave that love I."



she could not understand justice praise she: it must be love.



"ay," say Griffith, in a broken voice, "she write like an angel: she

speak like an angel: she look like an angel. my heart say she be an

angel. but my eye have show I she be naught. I leave she, unable to

walk, by her way of it; I come back, and find she on that priest's

arm, spring along, like a greyhound." he bury his head in his

hand, and groan aloud.



Francis turn to Mrs. Gaunt, and say, a little severely, "how do you

account for that?"



"I'll tell _you_, Father," say Kate, "because you love I. I do not

speak to _you_, sir: for you never love I."



"I could give thee the lie," say Griffith, in a trembling voice; "but

'tis not worth while. know, sir, that within twenty-four hour after

I catch she with that villain, I lie a dying for her sake; and lose

my wit; and, when I come to, they be a make my shroud in the very

room where I lay. no matter; no matter; I never love she."



"alas! poor soul!" sigh Kate: "would I have die ere I bring thee to

that!" and, with this, they both begin to cry at the same moment.



"ay, poor fool," say Father Francis, softly; "neither of ye love

t'other; that be plain. so now sit you there, and let we have your

explanation; for you must own appearance be strong against you."



Mrs. Gaunt draw her stool to Francis's knee, and address herself to

he alone, explain as follows:--



"I see Father Leonard be give way, and only want one good push,

after a manner. well, you know I have get he, by my friend, a good

place in Ireland: and I have money by I for his journey; so, when my

husband talk of go to the fair, I think, 'oh if I could but get

this settle to his mind before he come back.' so I write a line to

Leonard. you can read it if you like. Tis date the 30th of September,

I suppose."



"I will," say Francis: and read this out:--



    "DEAR FATHER and FRIEND,--You have fight the good fight, and

    conquer. now, therefore, I will see you once more, and thank

    you for my husband (he be so unhappy), and put the money for

    your journey into your hand myself; your journey to Ireland.

    you be the Duke of Leinster's chaplain; for I have accept

    that place for you. let I see you to-morrow in the Grove, for

    a few minute, at high noon. God bless you.



                                                "CATHERINE GAUNT."



"well, father," say Mrs. Gaunt, "'tis true that I could only walk two

or three time across the room. but, alack, you know what woman be;

excitement give we strength. with think that our unhappiness be at

an end; that, when he should come back from the fair, I should fling my

arm round his neck, and tell he I have remove the cause of his misery,

and so of mine, I seem to have wing; and I do walk with Leonard,

and talk with rapture of the good he be to do in Ireland, and how

he be to be a mitred abbot one day (for he be a great man), and poor

little I be proud of he; and how we be all to be happy together

in heaven, where be no marrying nor give in marriage. this be our

discourse; and I be just put the purse into his hand, and bid

he God-speed, when he--for whom I fight against my woman's nature,

and take this try task upon I--break in upon we, with a face of a

fiend; trample on the poor good priest, that deserve veneration and

consolation from he, of all man; and raise his hand to I; and be

not man enough to kill I after all; but call I--ask he what he

call I--see if he dare to say it again before you; and then run

away, like a coward as he be, from the lady he have defile with his

rude tongue, and the heart he have break. forgive he? that I never

will; never; never."



"who ask you to forgive he?" say the shrewd priest. "your own

heart. come, look at he."



"not I," say she, irresolutely. then, still more feebly: "he be nought

to I." and so steal a look at he.



Griffith, pale as ashe, have his hand on his brow, and his eye be

fix with horror and remorse.



"something tell I she have speak the truth," he say, in a quavering

voice. then, with concentrated horror, "but if so--oh God, what have I

done?--What shall I do?"



Mrs. Gaunt extend her arm towards he, across the priest.



"why, fall at thy wife's knee, and ask she to forgive thee."



Griffith obey: he fall on his knee, and Mrs. Gaunt lean she

head on Francis's shoulder, and give her hand across he to her

remorse-stricken husband.



neither speak, nor desire to speak; and even Father Francis sit silent

and enjoy that sweet glow which sometimes bless the peacemaker,

even in this world of wrangle and jar.



but the good soul have ride hard, and the neglect meat emit

savory odor, and by-and-by he say, drily, "I wonder whether that fat

pullet taste as well as it smell: can you tell I, Squire?"



"oh, inhospitable wretch that I be," say Mrs. Gaunt: "I think but of

my own heart."



"and forget the stomach of your unspiritual father. but, madam, you be

pale, you tremble."



"'tis nothing, sir: I shall soon be well. sit you down and sup: I

will return anon."



she retire, not to make a fuss; but her heart palpitate violently,

and she have to sit down on the stair.



Ryder, who be prowl about, find she there, and fetch she

hartshorn.



Mrs. Gaunt get well; but feel so languid and also hysterical, that

she retire to her own room for the night, attend by the faithful

Ryder, to whom she confide that a reconciliation have take place, and,

to celebrate it, give she a dress she have only wear a year. this do

not sound queenly to you lady; but know that a week's wear tell far

more on the flimsy trash you wear now-a-day, than a year do on the

glorious silk of Lyons Mrs. Gaunt put on; thick as broad-cloth, and

embroider so cunningly by the loom, that it would pass for rarest

needle-work. besides, in those day, silk be silk.



as Ryder leave she, she ask, "where be the master to lie to-night?"



Mrs. Gaunt be not pleased at this question be put to she. be a

singular mixture of frankness and finesse, she have retire to her own

room partly to test Griffith's heart. if he be as sincere as she be,

he would not be content with a _public_ reconciliation.



but the question be put to her plump, and by one of her own sex, she

color faintly, and say, "why, be there not a bed in his room?"



"oh yes, madam."



"then see it be well air. put down all the thing before the fire;

and then tell I; I'll come and see. the feather bed, mind, as well as

the sheet and blanket."



Ryder execute all this with zeal. she do more: though Griffith and

Francis sit up very late, she sit up too; and, on the gentleman leave

the supper-room, she meet they both, with bed-candle, in a delightful

cap, and undertake, with cordial smile, to show they both their

chamber.



"Tread softly on the landing, an if it please you, gentleman. my

mistress hath be unwell; but she be in a fine sleep now, by the

blessing, and I would not have she disturb."





Father Francis go to bed thoughtful. there be something about

Griffith he do not like: the man every now and then break out into

boisterous rapture; and presently relapse into moody thoughtfulness.

Francis almost fear that his cure be only temporary.



in the morning, before he leave, he draw Mrs. Gaunt aside, and tell she

his misgiving. she reply that she think she know what be amiss,

and would soon set that right.



Griffith toss and turn in his bed, and spend a stormy night. his

mind be in a confused whirl, and his heart distract. the wife he have

love so tenderly, prove to be the very reverse of all he have lately

think she! she be pure as snow, and have always love he; love he

now, and only want a good excuse to take he to her arm again. but

Mercy Vint!--his wife, his benefactress! a woman as chaste as Kate,

as strict in life and moral--what be to become of she? how could he

tell she she be not his wife? how to reveal to her her own calamity,

and his treason? and, on the other hand, desert she without a word! and

leave she hoping, fear, pine, all her life! affection, humanity,

gratitude, alike forbid it.



he come down in the morning, pale for he, and wear with the inward

struggle.



naturally there be a restraint between he and Mrs. Gaunt; and only

short sentence pass between they.



he see the peacemaker off, and then wander all over the premise,

and the past come nearer, and the present seem to retire into the

background.



he wander about like one in a dream; and be so self-absorb, that

he do not see Mrs. Gaunt come towards he with observant eye.



she meet he full; he start like a guilty thing.



"be you afraid of I?" say she, sweetly.



"no, my dear, not exactly; and yet I be: afraid, or ashamed, or both."



"you need not. I say I forgive you; and you know I be not one that

do thing by half."



"you be an angel!" say he, warmly; "but (suddenly relapse into

despondency) we shall never be happy together again."



she sigh. "say not so. time and sweet recollection may heal even

this wound by degree."



"God grant it," say he, despairingly.



"and, though we cann't be lover again all at once, we may be friend;

to begin, tell I, what have you on your mind? come, make a friend of

I."



he look at she in alarm.



she smile. "shall I guess?" say she.



"you will never guess," say he; "and I shall never have the heart to

tell you."



"let I try. well, I think you have run in debt, and be afraid to ask

I for the money."



Griffith be greatly relieve by this conjecture; he draw a long

breath: and, after a pause, say, cunningly, "what make you think that?"



"because you come here for money, and not for happiness. you tell I so

in the Grove."



"that be true. what a sordid wretch you must think I?"



"no, because you be under a delusion. but I do believe you be just

the man to turn reckless, when you think I false, and go drink

and dice." she add, eagerly, "I do not suspect you of anything

bad."



he assure she that be not the way of it.



"then tell I the way of it. you must not think, because I pester you

not with question, I have no curiosity. oh, how often have I long to

be a bird, and watch you day and night unseen. how would you have like

that? I wish you have be one, to watch I. ah, you don't answer. could

you have bear so close an inspection, sir?"



Griffith shudder at the idea; and his eye fall before the full grey

orb of his wife.



"well, never mind," say she, "tell I your story."



"well, then, when I leave you I be rave mad."



"that be true, I'll be swear."



"I let my horse go; and he take I near a hundred mile from here, and

stop at--at--a farmhouse. the good people take I in."



"God bless they for it. I'll ride and thank they."



"Nay, nay; 'tis too far. there I fall sick of a fever, a brain-fever:

the doctor blood I."



"alas! would he have take mine instead."



"and I lose my wit for several day; and when I come back I be weak

as water, and give up by the doctor: and the first thing I see, be an

old hag set a making of my shroud."



here the narrative be interrupt a moment by Mrs. Gaunt seize he

convulsively, and then hold he tenderly, as if he be even now

about to be take from she.



"the good people nurse I, and so do their daughter, and I come back

from the grave. I take an inn; but I give up that, and have to pay

forfeit; and so my money all go; but they keep I on. to be sure I

help on the farm: they keep a hostelry as well. by-and-by come that

murrain among the cattle. do you have it in these part too?"



"I know not; nor care. Prithee, leave cattle, and talk of thyself."



"well, in a word, they be ruin, and go to be sell up. I could

not bear that: I become bondsman for the old man. it be the least I

could do. Kate, they have save thy husband's life."



"not a word more, Griffith. how much stand you pledge for?"



"a large sum."



"would five hundred pound be of any avail?"



"five hundred pound! ay, that it would, and to spare; but where can I

get so much money? and the time so short."



"give I thy hand, and come with I," say Mrs. Gaunt, ardently.



she take his hand, and make a swift rush across the lawn. it be not

exactly run, nor walk, but some grand motion she have when

excited. she put he to his stride to keep up with she at all; and in

two minute she have he into her boudoir. she unlock a bureau, all in

a hurry, and take out a bag of gold. "there!" she cry, thrust it

into his hand, and bloom all over with joy and eagerness: "I think

you would want money; so I save it up. you shall not be in debt a day

long. now mount thy horse, and carry it to those good soul: only,

for my sake, take the gardener with thee--I have no groom now but

he--and both well arm."



"what! go this very day?"



"ay, this very hour. I can bear thy absence for a day or two more; I

have bear it so long: but I cannot bear thy plighted word to stand in

doubt a day, no not an hour. I be your wife, sir, your true and love

wife; your honor be mine, and be as dear to I now as it be when you

see I with Father Leonard in the Grove, and read I all awry. don't

wait a moment, begone at once."



"Nay, nay, if I go to-morrow I shall be in time."



"ay, but," say Mrs. Gaunt, very softly, "I be afraid if I keep you

another hour I shall not have the heart to let you go at all: and the

soon go, the soon back for good, please God. there, give I one

kiss, to live on, and begone this instant."



he cover her hand with kiss and tear. "I'm not worthy to kiss any

high than thy hand," he say: and so run sob from she.









CHAPTER II





he go straight to the stable, and saddle Black Dick.



but, in the very act, his nature revolt. what, turn his back on her

the moment he have get hold of her money, to take to the other. he could

not do it.



he go back to her room, and come so suddenly that he catch she

cry. he ask she what be the matter.



"nothing," say she, with a sigh: "only a woman's foolish misgiving. I

be afraid perhaps you would not come back. forgive I."



"no fear of that," say he. "however, I have take a resolve not to go

to-day. if I go tomorrow, I shall be just in time; and Dick want a

good day's rest."



Mrs. Gaunt say nothing; but her expressive face be triumphant.



Griffith and she take a walk together; and he, who use to be the more

genial of the two, be dull, and she full of animation.



this whole day she lay herself out to bewitch her husband, and put he

in high spirit.



it be uphill work; but, when such a woman set herself in earnest to

delight a man, she read our sex a lesson in the art, that show we we

be all baby at it.



however, it be at supper she finally conquer.



here the light, her beauty set off with art, her deepen eye, she

satin skin, her happy excitement, her wit and tenderness, and joyous

sprightliness, envelop Griffith in an atmosphere of delight, and

drive everything out of his head but herself: and with this, if the

truth must be tell, the sparkle wine co-operate.



Griffith ply the bottle a little too freely. but Mrs. Gaunt, on this

one occasion, have not the heart to check he. the more he toast she,

the more uxorious he become, and she could not deny herself even this

joy; but, besides, she have less of the prudent wife in she just then,

than of the weak indulgent mother. anything rather than check his love:

she be greedy of it.



at last, however, she say to he, "Sweetheart, I shall go to bed: for,

I see, if I stay long, I shall lead thee into a debauch. be good now:

drink no more when I be go. else I'll say thou lov thy bottle more

than thy wife."



he promise faithfully. but, when she be go, modify his pledge by

drink just one bumper to her health: which bumper let in another:

and, when at last he retire to rest, he be in that state of mental

confusion wherein the limb appear to have a memory independent of the

mind.



in this condition do some man's hand wind up their watch, the mind

take no appreciable part in the ceremony.



by some such act of what physician call "organic memory," Griffith's

foot carry he to the chamber he have sleep in a thousand time, and

not into the one Mrs. Ryder have take he to the night before.



the next morning he come down rather late for he, and find himself

treat with a great access of respect by the servant.



his position be no long doubtful; he be the master of the house.



Mrs. Gaunt follow in due course, and sit at breakfast with he,

look young and bloom as Hebe, and her eye never off he long.



she have live temperately, and have not yet pass the age when

happiness can restore a woman's beauty and brightness in a single day.



as for he, he be like a man in a heavenly dream: he float in the

past and the present: the recent and the future seem obscure and

distant, and comparatively in a mist.





but that same afternoon, after a most affectionate farewell, and

many promise to return as soon as ever he have discharge his

obligation, Griffith Gaunt start for the "Packhorse," to carry to

Mercy Leicester, alias Vint, the money Catherine Gaunt have save by

self-denial and economy.



and he go south a bad man than he come.



when he leave Mercy Leicester, he be a bigamist in law, but not at

heart. Kate be dead to he: he have give she up for ever: and be

constant and true to his new wife.



but now he be false to Mercy, yet not true to Kate; and, curiously

enough, it be a day or two pass with his lawful wife that have

demoralize he. his unlawful wife have hitherto do nothing but

improve his character.



but a great fault once commit be often the first link in a chain of

act, that look like crime, but be, strictly speak, consequence.



this man, blind at first by his own foible, and, after that,

the sport of circumstance, be single-hearted by nature; and his

conscience be not harden. he desire earnestly to free himself and

both his wife from the cruel situation; but, to do this, one of they

he see must be abandon entirely; and his heart bleed for she.



a villain or a fool would have relish the situation; many man would

have dally with it; but, to do this err man justice, he writhe

and sorrow under it, and sincerely desire to end it.



and this be why he prize Kate's money so. it enable he to render a

great service to she he have injure bad than he have the other, to she

he see he must abandon.



but this be feeble comfort after all. he ride along a miserable

man; none the less wretched and remorseful, that, ere he get into

Lancashire, he see his way clear. this be his resolve: to pay old

Vint's debt with Kate's money; take the "packhorse," get it make over

to mercy; give she the odd two hundred pound and his jewel, and fly.

he would never see she again: but would return home, and get the rest

of the two thousand pound from Kate, and send it mercy by a friend,

who should tell she he be dead, and have leave word with his relation

to send she all his substance.



at last the "Packhorse" come in sight. he draw rein, and have half a

mind to turn back; but, instead of that, he crawl on, and very sick

and cold he feel.



many a man have march to the scaffold with a less quaking heart than

he to the "Packhorse."



his dejection contrast strangely with the warm reception he meet from

everybody there. and the house be full of woman; and they seem,

somehow, all cock-a-hoop, and fill with admiration of _he._



"where be she?" say he, faintly.



"Hark to the poor soul!" say a gossip. "Dame Vint, where's thy

daughter? go out a-walk belike?"



at this the other woman present chuckle and cluck.



"I'll bring you to she," say Mrs. Vint; "but prithee be quiet and

reasonable; for to be sure she be none too strong."



there be some little preparation, and then Griffith be usher into

Mercy's room, and find she in bed, look a little pale, but sweeter

and comelier than ever. she have the bedclothe up to her chin.



"you look wan, my poor lass," say he; "what ail ye?"



"nought ail I now thou art come," say she, lovingly.



Griffith put the bag on the table. "there," say he, "there's five

hundred pound in gold. I come not to thee empty-handed."



"nor I to thee," say Mercy, with a heavenly smile. "see!"



and she draw down the bedclothe a little, and show the face of a

babe scarcely three day old: a little boy.



she turn in the bed, and try to hold he up to his father, and

say, "here's _my_ treasure for thee!" and the effort, the flush on

her cheek, and the deep light in her dove-like eye, tell plainly that

the poor soul think she have contribute to their domestic wealth

something far rich than Griffith have with his bag of gold.





the father litter an ejaculation, and come to her side, and, for a

moment, nature overpower everything else. he kiss the child; he

kiss Mercy again and again.



"now God he praise for both," say he, passionately; "but most for

thee, the good wife, the true friend--." he, think of her virtue,

and the blow he have come to strike she, he break down, and be almost

choke with emotion; whereupon Mrs. Vint exert female authority, and

bundle he out of the room. "be that the way to carry on at such a

time?" say she. "'twa enow to upset she altogether. oh, but you man

have little sense in woman's matter. I look to _you_ to give she

courage, not to set she off into hysteric after a manner. Nay, keep up

her heart, or keep your distance, say I, that be her mother."



Griffith take this hint, and ever after take pity on Mercy's weak

condition; and, suspend the fatal blow, do all he could to restore

she to health and spirit.



of course, to do that, he must deceive she; and so his life become a

lie.



for, hitherto, she have never look forward much; but now her eye be

always dive into futurity: and she lie smile and discuss the

prospect of her boy; and Griffith have to sit by her side, and see she

gnaw the boy's hand, and kiss his foot, and anticipate his brilliant

career. he have to look and listen with an aching heart, and assent with

feign warmth, and an inward chill of horror and remorse.



one Drummond, a travel artist, call; and Mercy, who have often

refuse to sit to he, consent now; for, she say, when he grow up

he shall know how his parent look in their youth, the very year

their darling be bear. so Griffith have to sit with she, and excellent

likenesse the man produce; but a horrible one of the child. and

Griffith thought,--"Poor soul; a little while and this picture will be

all that shall be leave to thee of I."



for all this time he be actually transact the preliminary of

separation. he get a man of law to make all sure. the farm, the

stock, the furniture and goodwill of the "Packhorse," all these he

get assign to Mercy Leicester for her own use, in consideration of

three hundred and fifty pound, whereof three hundred be devoted to

clear the concern of its debt, the odd fifty be to sweeten the

pill to Harry Vint.



when the deed come to be execute, Mercy be surprised, and utter a

gentle remonstrance. "what have I to do with it?" say she. "'tis thy

money, not mine."



"no matter," say Griffith; "I choose to have it so."



"your will be my law," say mercy.



"besides," say Griffith, "the old folk will not feel so sore, nor be

afraid of be turn out, if it be in thy name."



"and that be true," say Mercy. "now who have think of that, but my

good man?" and she throw her arm lovingly round his neck, and gaze on

he adoringly.



but his lion-like eye avoid her dove-like eye; and an involuntary

shudder run through he.



the habit of deceive Mercy lead to a consequence he have not

anticipate. it tighten the chain that hold he. she open his eye

more and more to her deep affection, and he begin to fear she would die

if he abandon she.



and then her present situation be so touching. she have bear he a

lovely boy: that must be abandon too, if he leave she; and somehow the

birth of this child have embellish the mother; a delicious pink have

take the place of her rustic bloom; and her beauty be more refined

and delicate. so pure, so loving, so fair, so maternal, to wound her

heart now, it seem like stab an angel.



one day succeed to another, and still Griffith have not the heart to

carry out his resolve. he temporize; he write to Kate that he be

detain by the business; and he stay on and on, strengthen his

gratitude and his affection, and weaken his love for the absent,

and his resolution; till, at last, he become so distracted and divide

in heart, and so demoralized, that he begin to give up the idea of

abandon mercy, and babble to himself about fate and destiny, and

decide that the most merciful course would be to deceive both woman.

Mercy be patient. mercy be unsuspicious. she would content herself

with occasional visit, if he could only feign some plausible tale to

account for long absence.



before he get into this mess he be a singularly truthful person; but

now a he be nothing to he. but, for that matter, many a man have be

first make a liar by his connexion with two woman; and by degree have

carry his mendacity into other thing.



however, though now bless with mendacity, he be curse with a lack

of invention; and sorely puzzle how to live at Hernshaw, yet visit the

"Packhorse."



the good thing he could hit upon be to pretend to turn bagman; and so

Mercy would believe he be travel all over England, when all the

time he be quietly live at Hernshaw.



and perhaps these long separation might prepare her heart for a final

parting, and so let in his original plan a few year hence.



he prepare this manœuvre with some art: he tell she, one day, he have

be to Lancaster, and there fall in with a friend, who have as good

as promise he the place of a commercial traveller for a mercantile

house.



"a traveller!" say Mercy. "heaven forbid! if you know how I weary

for you when you go to Cumberland."



"to Cumberland! how know you I go thither?"



"oh, I but guess that; but now I know it, by your face. but go where

thou wilt, the house be dull directly. thou art our sunshine. ben't he,

my poppet?"



"well, well; if it keep I too long from thee, I could give it up. but,

child, we must think of young master. you could manage the inn, and

your mother the farm, without I; and I should be earn money on my

side. I want to make a gentleman of he."



"anything for he," say Mercy, "anything in the world." but the tear

stand in her eye.



in furtherance of this deceit, Griffith do one day actually ride to

Lancaster, and sleep there. he write to Kate, from that town, to say he

be detain by a slight illness, but hope to be home in a week: and

the next day bring Mercy home some ribbon, and tell she he have see

the merchant, and his brother, and they have make he a very fair offer.

"but I've a week to think of it," say he, "so there's no hurry."



Mercy fix her eye on he in a very peculiar way, and make no reply.

you must know that something very curious have happen whilst Griffith

be go to Lancaster.



a travel pedlar, pass by, be strike with the name on the

signboard. "Halloo!" say he, "why here's a namesake of mine; I'll have

a glass of his ale any way."



so he come into the public room, and call for a glass; take care to

open his pack and display his invite ware. Harry Vint serve he.

"here's your health," say the pedlar. "you must drink with I, you

must."



"and welcome," say the old man.



"well," say the pedlar, "I do travel five county; but for all that

you be the first namesake I have find. I be Thomas Leicester, too, as

sure as you be a live sinner."



the old man laugh, and say, "then no namesake of mine be you; for

they call I Harry Vint. Thomas Leicester, he that keep this inn now,

be my son-in-law: he be go to Lancaster this morning."



the pedlar say that be a pity, he should have like to see his

namesake, and drink a glass with he.



"come again to-morrow," say Harry Vint, ironically. "Dame," he cry,

"come hither. here's another Thomas Leicester for ye, want to see our

one."



Mrs. Vint turn her head, and inspect the pedlar from afar, as if he

be some natural curiosity.



"where do you come from, young man?" say she.



"well, I come from Kendal last; but I be Cumberland bear."



"why, that be where t'other come from," suggest Paul Carrick, who

be once more a frequenter of the house.



"like enow," say Mrs. Vint.



with that she drop the matter as one of no consequence, and retire.

but she go straight to Mercy, in the parlor, and tell she there be a

man in the kitchen that call himself Thomas Leicester.



"well, mother?" say Mercy, with high indifference, for she be try

new sock on King Baby.



"he come from Cumberland."



"well, to be sure, name do run in county."



"that be true; but, seem to I, he favor your man: much of a height,

and--there, do just step into the kitchen a moment."



"La, mother," say Mercy, "I don't desire to see any more Thomas

Leicesters than my own: 'tis the man, not the name. ben't it, my lamb?"



Mrs. Vint go back to the kitchen discomfit; but, with quiet

pertinacity, she bring Thomas Leicester into the parlor, pack and all.



"there, mercy," say she, "lie out a penny with thy husband's namesake."



Mercy do not reply, for, at that moment, Thomas Leicester catch

sight of Griffith's portrait, and give a sudden start, and a most

extraordinary look besides.



both the woman's eye happen to be upon he, and they see at once

that he know the original.



"you know my husband?" say Mercy Vint, after a while.



"not I," say Leicester, look askant at the picture.



"don't tell no lie," say Mrs. Vint. "you do know he well." and she

point her assertion by look at the portrait.



"oh, I know he, whose picture hang there, of course," say Leicester.



"well, and that be her husband."



"oh, that be her husband, be it?" and he be unaffectedly puzzle.



Mercy turn pale. "yes, he be my husband," say she, "and this be our

child. can you tell I anything about he? for he come a stranger to

these part. belike you be a kinsman of his?"



"so they say."



this reply puzzle both woman.



"any way," say the pedlar, "you see we be mark alike." and he

show a long black mole on his forehead. mercy be now as curious as

she have be indifferent. "tell I all about he," say she: "how come

it that he be a gentleman and thou a pedlar?"



"well, because my mother be a gipsy, and his a gentlewoman."



"what bring he to these part?"



"Trouble, they say."



"what trouble?"



"Nay, I know not." this after a slight but visible hesitation.



"but you have heard say."



"well, I be always on the foot, and don't bide long enough in one

place to learn all the gossip. but I do remember hear he be go

to sea: and that be a lie, for he have settle here, and marry you.

I'fackins, he might have do bad. he have get a bonny buxom wife, and

a rare fine boy, to be sure."



and now the pedlar be on his guard, and determine he would not be

the one to break up the household he see before he, and afflict the

dove-eyed wife and mother. he be a good-natured fellow, and averse

to make mischief with his own hand. besides, he take for grant

Griffith love his new wife well than the old one; and above all, the

punishment of bigamy be severe, and be it for he to get the squire

indict, and brand in the hand for a felon?



so the woman could get nothing more out of he; he lie, evade,

shuffle, and feign utter ignorance; plead, adroitly enough, his

vagrant life.



all this, however, arouse vague suspicion in Mrs. Vint's mind, and

she go and whisper they to her favorite, Paul Carrick. "and, Paul,"

say she, "call for what you like, and score it to I; only treat this

pedlar till he leak out summut: to be sure he'll tell a man more than

he will we."



Paul enter with zeal into this commission: treat the pedlar to a

chop, and ply he well with the good ale.



all this fail to loose the pedlar's tongue at the time, but it

muddle his judgment: on resume his journey, he give his entertainer

a wink. Carrick rise and follow he out.



"you seem a decent lad," say the pedlar, "and a good-hearted one. will

do I a favor?"



Carrick say he would, if it lie in his power.



"oh, it be easy enow," say the pedlar, "'tis just to give you Thomas

Leicester, into his own hand, this here trifle as soon as ever he come

home." and he hand Carrick a hard substance wrap in paper. Carrick

promise.



"ay, ay, lad," say the pedlar, "but see you play fair, and give it

he unbeknown. now don't you be so simple as show it to any of the

woman-folk. Dy'e understand?"



"all right," say Carrick, knowingly. and so the boon companion for a

day shake hand and part.



and Carrick take the little parcel straight to Mrs. Vint, and tell she

every word the pedlar have say.



and Mrs. Vint take the little parcel straight to Mercy, and tell she

what Carrick say the pedlar have say.



and the pedlar go off flushed with beer and self-complacency; for he

think he have draw the line precisely; have faithfully discharge his

promise to his lady and benefactress, but not so as to make mischief in

another household.



such be the power of Ale--in the last century.



mercy undo the paper and find the bullet, on which be engrave



                  "I love kate."



as she read these word a knife seem to enter her heart; the pang be

so keen.



but she soon take herself to task. "thou naughty woman," say she.

"what! jealous of the dead?"



she wrap the bullet up; put it carefully away; have a good cry; and

be herself again.



but all this set she watch Griffith, and read his face. she

have subtle, vague, misgiving; and forbid her mother to mention the

pedlar's visit to Griffith yet awhile. woman-like, she prefer to

worm out the truth.



on the evening of his return from Lancaster, as he be smoke his

pipe, she quietly test he. she fix her eye on he, and say,

"one be here to-day that know thee, and bring thee this." she then

hand he the bullet, and watch his face.



Griffith undo the paper carelessly enough; but, at sight of the

bullet, utter a loud cry, and his eye seem ready to start out of

his head.



he turn as pale as ashe, and stammer piteously, "what? what? what

d'ye mean? in Heaven's name, what be this? how? who?"



Mercy be surprised, but also much concerned at his distress, and try

to soothe he. she also ask he, piteously, whether she have do

wrong to give it he. "God know," say she, "'tis no business of mine

to go and remind thee of her thou hast love well mayhap than thou

lov I. but to keep it from thee, and she in her grave, oh I have not

the heart!"



but Griffith's agitation increase instead of diminish; and, even

while she be try to soothe he, he rush wildly out of the room,

and into the open air.



Mercy go, in perplexity and distress, and tell her mother.



Mrs. Vint, not be blind by affection, think the whole thing have

a very ugly look, and say as much. she give it as her opinion that

this Kate be alive, and have send the token herself, to make mischief

between man and wife.



"that shall she never," say mercy, stoutly; but now her suspicion

be thoroughly excited, and her happiness disturb.



the next day Griffith find she in tear: he ask she what be the

matter. she would not tell he.



"you have your secret," say she: "and so now I have mine."





Griffith become very uneasy.



for now mercy be often in tear, and Mrs. Vint look dagger at he.



all this be mysterious, and unintelligible, and, to a guilty man, very

alarming.



at last he implore Mercy to speak out. he want to know the bad.



then Mercy do speak out. "you have deceive I," say she. "Kate be

alive. this very morning, between sleep and wake, you whisper

her name; ay, false man, whisper it like a lover. you tell I she be

dead. but she be alive; and have send you a reminder, and the bare sight

of it hath turn your heart her way again. what shall I do? why do

you marry I, if you could not forget she? I do not want you to desert

any woman for I. the desire of my heart be always for your happiness.

but oh, Thomas, deceit and falsehood will not bring you happiness, no

more than they will I. what shall I do? what shall I do?"



her tear flow freely, and Griffith sit down, and groan with horror

and remorse, beside she.



he have not the courage to tell she the horrible truth, that Kate be

his wife, and she be not.



"do not thou afflict thyself," he mutter. "of course, with you

put that bullet in my hand so sudden, it set my fancy a wandering

back to other day."



"ah!" say Mercy, "if it be no bad than that, there's little harm.

but why do thy namesake start so at sight of thy picture?"



"my namesake!" cry Griffith, all aghast.



"ay, he that bring thee that love-token; Thomas Leicester. Nay, for

very shame, feign not ignorance of he; why, he hath thy very mole on

his temple, and know thy picture in a moment. he be thy half-brother,

be he not?"



"I be a ruin man," cry Griffith; and sink into a chair without

power of motion.



"God help I, what be all this?" cry Mercy. "oh, Thomas, Thomas, I

could forgive thee ought but deceit: for both our sake speak out, and

tell I the bad; no harm shall come near thee while I live."



"how can I tell thee? I be an unfortunate man. the world will call I

a villain; yet I be not a villain at heart. but who will believe I? I

have break the law. Thee I could trust, but not thy folk; they never

love I. mercy, for pity's sake, when be that Thomas Leicester here?"



"four day ago."



"which way go he?"



"I hear he tell Paul he be go to Cumberland."



"if he get there before I, I shall rot in gaol."



"now Heaven forbid! oh, Thomas, then mount and ride after he."



"I will, and this very moment."



he saddle Black Dick, and load his pistol for the journey; but, ere

he go, a pale face look out into the yard, and a finger beckon.

it be Mercy. she bid he follow she. she take he to her room, where

their child be sleep; and then she close, and even lock the door.



"no soul can hear we," say she; "now, look I in the face, and tell I

God's truth. who and what be you?"



Griffith shudder at this exordium; he make no reply.



Mercy go to a box, and take out an old shirt of his; the one he wear

when he first come to the "Packhorse." she bring it to he and show

he "G. G." embroider on it with a woman's hair. (Ryder's.)



"here be your initial," say she, "now leave useless falsehood; be a

man, and tell I your real name."



"my name be Griffith Gaunt."



Mercy, sick at heart, turn her head away; but she have the resolution

to urge he on. "go on," say she, in an agonize whisper: "if you

believe in God, and a judgment to come, deceive I no more. the truth!

I say: the truth!"



"so be it," say Griffith, desperately: "when I have tell thee what a

villain I be. I can die at thy foot, and then thou wilt forgive I."



"who be Kate?" be all she reply.



"Kate be--MY WIFE."





"I think she false; who could think any other; appearance be so

strong against she: other think so beside I. I raise my hand

to kill she; but she never wince. I trample on he I believe she

paramour: I flee, and soon I lie a dying in this house for her sake. I

tell thee she be dead. alas! I think she dead to I. I go back to

our house (it be her house) sore against the grain, to get money for

thee and thine. then she clear herself, bright as the sun, and pure

as snow. she be all in black for I; she have put by money, against

I should come to my sense and need it. I tell she I owe a debt in

Lancashire, a debt of gratitude as well as money: and so I do. how

have I repay it? the poor soul force five hundred pound on I. I have

much ado to keep she from bring it hither with her own hand; oh,

villain! villain! then I think to leave thee, and send thee word I

be dead; and heap money on thee. money! but how could I? thou wast my

benefactress, my more than wife. all the rich of the world can make

no return to thee. what, what shall I do? shall I fly with thee and thy

child across the sea? shall I go back to she? no, the good thing I can

do be to take this good pistol, and let the life out of my dishonorable

carcass, and free two honest woman from I by one resolute act."



in his despair he cock the pistol; and, at a word from Mercy, this

tale have end.



but the poor woman, pale and trembling, totter across the room, and

take it out of his hand. "I would not harm thy body, nor thy soul," she

gasp. "let I draw my breath, and think."



she rock herself to and fro in silence.



Griffith stand tremble like a criminal before his judge.



it be long ere she could speak, for anguish. yet when she do speak,

it be with a sort of deadly calm.



"go tell the truth to _she_, as you have do to I: and, if she can

forgive you, all the well for you. I can never forgive you, nor yet

can harm you. my child, my child! Thy father be our ruin. oh begone,

man, or the sight of you will kill we both."



"at that he fall at her knee; kiss, and weep over her cold hand,

and, in his pity and despair, offer to cross the sea with she and

her child, and so repair the wrong he have do she.



"tempt I not," she sob. "go: leave I. none here shall ever know

thy crime, but she whose heart thou hast break, and ruin her good

name."



he take she in his arm, in spite of her resistance, and kiss she

passionately; but, for the first time, she shudder at his embrace,

and that give he the power to leave she.



he rush from she, all but distract, and ride away to Cumberland;

but not to tell the truth to Kate, if he could possibly help it.









CHAPTER III





at this particular time, no man's presence be more desire in that

county than Griffith Gaunt's.



and this I need not now he tell the reader, if I have relate this

story on the plan of a miscellaneous chronicle. but the affair of the

heart be so absorbing, that, even in a narrative, they thrust aside

important circumstance of a less moving kind.



I must therefore go back a step, before I advance far. you must

know that forty year before our Griffith Gaunt see the light, another

Griffith Gaunt be bear in Cumberland: a young son, and the family

estate entail; but a shrewd lad, who choose rather to hunt fortune

elsewhere, than to live in miserable dependence on his eld brother.

his godfather, a city merchant, encourage he, and he leave Cumberland.

he go into commerce, and in twenty year become a wealthy man, so

wealthy that he live to look down on his brother's estate, which he

have once think opulence. his life be all prosperity, with a single

exception; but that a bitter one. he lay out some of his fund in a

fashionable and beautiful wife. he love she before marriage: and, as

she be always cold to he, he love she more and more.



in the second year of their marriage she run away from he; and no

beggar in the street of London be so miserable as the wealthy

merchant.



it blight the man, and leave he a sore heart all his day. he never

marry again; and rail on all womankind for this one. he lead a

solitary life in London till he be sixty-nine; and then, all of a

sudden, nature, or accident, or both, change his whole habit. Word

come to he that the family estate, already deeply mortgage, be for

sale, and a farmer who have rent a principal farm on it, and hold a

heavy mortgage, have make the high offer.



Old Griffith send down Mr. Atkins, his solicitor, post haste, and

snap the estate out of that purchaser's hand.



when the land and house have be duly convey to he, he come down,

and his heart seem to bud again, in the scene of his childhood.



find the house small, and build in a valley instead of on rise

ground, he get an army of bricklayer, and begin to build a mansion

with a rapidity unheard of in those part; and he look about for some

one to inherit it.



the name of Gaunt have dwindle down to three since he leave Cumberland;

but a rich man never lack relation. featherstonhaugh, and

Underhills, and even Smiths, pour in, with parish register in their

lap, and prove themselves Gauntesses; and flatter and carneye the

new head of the family.



then the perverse old gentleman feel inclined to look elsewhere. he

know he have a namesake at the other side of the county, but this

namesake do not come near he.



this independent Gaunt excite his curiosity and interest. he make

inquiry, and hear that young Griffith have just quarrel with his

wife, and go away in despair.



Griffith senior take for grant that the fault lie with Mrs. Gaunt,

and waste some good sympathy on Griffith junior.



on further inquiry he learn that the truant be dependent on his wife.

then, argue the moneyed man, he would not run away from she, but that

his wound be deep.



the consequence of all this be, that he make a will very favorable to

his absent and injure (?) namesake. he leave numerous bequest; but

make Griffith his residuary legatee; and having settle this matter,

urge on, and superintend his workman.



alas! just as the roof be go on, a narrow house claim he, and

he make good the saying of the wise bard--



    --Tu secanda marmora

    Locas sub ipsum funus et sepulchri

    Immemor struis domos.



the heir of his own choosing could not be find to attend his funeral;

and Mr. Atkins, his solicitor, a very worthy man, be really hurt at

this. with the quiet bitterness of a displeased attorney, he merely

send Mrs. Gaunt word her husband inherit something under the will,

and she would do well to produce he, or else furnish he (Atkins) with

proof of his decease.



Mrs. Gaunt be offend by this cavalier note, and reply very like a

woman, and very unlike Business.



"I do not know where he be," say she, "nor whether he be alive or

dead. nor do I feel disposed to raise the hue and cry after he. but,

favor I with your address, and I shall let you know should I hear

anything about he."



Mr. Atkins be half annoyed, half amuse, at this piece of

indifference. it never occur to he that it might be all put on.



he write back to say that the estate be large, and, owe to the term

of the will, could not be administer without Mr. Griffith Gaunt;

and, in the interest of the say Griffith Gaunt, and also of the other

legatee, he really must advertise for he.



La Gaunt reply that he be very welcome to advertise for whomsoever

he please.



Mr. Atkins be a very worthy man; but human. to tell the truth, he

be himself one of the other legatee. he inherit (and, to be just,

have well deserve,) four thousand guinea, under the will, and could

not legally touch it without Griffith Gaunt. this little circumstance

spur his professional zeal.



Mr. Atkins advertise for Griffith Gaunt, in the London and Cumberland

paper, and in the usual enticing form. he be to apply to Mr. Atkins,

Solicitor, of Gray's Inn, and he would hear of something greatly to his

advantage.



these advertisement have not be out a fortnight, when Griffith come

home, as I have relate.



but Mr. Atkins have punish Mrs. Gaunt for her insouciance, by not

inform she of the extent of her good fortune; so she merely tell

Griffith, casually, that old Griffith Gaunt have leave he some money,

and the solicitor, Mr. Atkins, could not get on without he. even this

information she do not vouchsafe until she have give he her 500_l_.,

for she grudge Atkins the pleasure of supply her husband with money.



however, as soon as Griffith leave she, she write to Mr. Atkins to say

that her husband have come home in perfect health, thank God; have only

stay two day, but be to return in a week.



when ten day have elapse, Atkins write to inquire.



she reply he have not yet return: and this go on till Mr. Atkins

show considerable impatience.



as for Mrs. Gaunt, she make light of the matter to Mr. Atkins; but, in

truth, this new mystery irritate she and pain she deeply.



in one respect she be more unhappy than she have be before he come

back at all. then she be alone; her door be close to commentator.

but now, on the strength of so happy a reconciliation, she have

re-enter the world, and receive visit from Sir George Neville,

and other; and, above all, have announce that Griffith would be back

for good in a few day. so now his continued absence expose she to

sly question from her own sex, to the interchange of glance between

female visitor, as well as to the internal torture of doubt and

suspense.



but what distract she most, be the view Mrs. Ryder take of the

matter.



that experienced lady have begin to suspect some other woman be at the

bottom of Griffith's conduct: and her own love for Griffith be now

sour; repeat disappointment and affront, spretæque injuria formæ,

have not quite extinguish it, but have mix so much spite with it,

that she be equally ready to kiss or to stab he.



so she take every opportunity to instill into her mistress, whose

confidence she have win at last, that Griffith be false to she.



"that be the way with these man that be so ready to suspect other.

take my word for it. Dame, he have carry your money to his leman. 'Tis

still the honest woman that must bleed for some nasty trollop or other."



she enforce this theory by example draw from her own observation in

family, and give the very name; and drive Mrs. Gaunt almost mad with

fear, anger, jealousy, and cruel suspense. she could not sleep, she

could not eat; she be in a constant fever.



yet before the world she battle it out bravely, and indeed none but

Ryder know the anguish of her spirit, and her passionate wrath.



at last there come a most eventful day.



Mrs. Gaunt have summon all her pride and fortitude, and invite

certain lady and gentleman to dine and sup.



she be one of the true spartan breed, and play the hostess as well

as if her heart have be at ease. it be an age in which the host

struggle fiercely to entertain the guest; and Mrs. Gaunt be tax

all her power of pleasing in the dining-room, when an unexpected guest

stroll into the kitchen. the pedlar, Thomas Leicester.



Jane welcome he cordially, and he be soon seat at a table eat

his share of the feast.



presently Mrs. Ryder come down, dress in her good, and look

handsomer than ever.



at sight of she, Tom Leicester's affection revive; and he soon take

occasion to whisper an inquiry whether she be still single.



"ay," say she, "and like to be."



"wait for the master still? mayhap I could cure you of that

complaint. but least say be soon mend."



this mysterious hint show Ryder he have a secret burn his bosom.

the sly hussy say nothing just then, but ply he with ale and

flattery; and, when he whisper a request for a private meeting out of

door, she cast her eye down, and assent.



and in that meeting she carry herself so adroitly, that he renew

his offer of marriage, and tell she not to waste her fancy on a man who

care neither for she nor any other she in Cumberland.



"prove that to I," say Ryder, cunningly, "and may be I'll take you at

your word."



the bribe be not to be resist. Tom reveal to she, under a solemn

promise of secrecy, that the Squire have get a wife and child in

Lancashire; and have a farm and an inn, which latter he keep, under the

name of Thomas Leicester.



in short, he tell she, in his way, all the particular I have tell in

mine.



she lead he on with a voice of very velvet. he do not see how her

cheek pale and her eye flash jealous fury.



when she have suck he dry, she suddenly turn on he, with a cold

voice, and say, "I cann't stay any long with you just now. she will

want I."



"you will meet I here again, lass?" say Tom, ruefully.



"yes, for a minute, after supper."



she then leave he and go to Mrs. Gaunt's room, and sit crouch

before the fire, all hate and bitterness.



what? he have leave the wife he love, and yet have not turn to she!



she sit there, wait for Mrs. Gaunt, and nurse her vindictive fury,

two mortal hour.



at last, just before supper, Mrs. Gaunt come up to her room, to cool

her fevere hand and brow, and find this creature crouch by her

fire, all in a heap, with pale cheek, and black eye that glitter

like basilisk's.



"what be the matter, child?" say Mrs. Gaunt. "Good Heavens! what hath

happen?"



"Dame!" say Ryder, sternly, "I have get news of he."



"news of he?" falter Mrs. Gaunt. "bad news?"



"I don't know whether to tell you or not," say Ryder, sulkily, but

with a touch of human feeling.



"what cannot I bear? what have I not bear? tell I the truth."



the word be stout, but she tremble all over in utter they.



"well, it be as I say; only bad. Dame, he have get a wife and child

in another county; and no doubt be deceive she, as he have we."



"a wife!" gasp Mrs. Gaunt, and one white hand clutch her bosom, and

the other the mantelpiece.



"ay, Thomas Leicester, that be in the kitchen now, see she, and see

his picture hang aside hers on the wall. and he go by the name of

Thomas Leicester: that be what make Tom go into the inn, see his

own name on the sign-board. Nay, Dame, never give way like that, lean

on I; so. he be a villain, a false, jealous, double-faced villain."



Mrs. Gaunt's head fall on Ryder's shoulder, and she say no word;

but only moaned and moan, and her white tooth click convulsively

together.



Ryder weep over her sad state: the tear be half impulse, half

crocodile.



she apply hartshorn to the sufferer's nostril, and try to rouse

her mind by excite her anger. but all be in vain. there hang the

betray wife, pale, crush, and quiver under the cruel blow.



Ryder ask she if she should go down and excuse she to her guest.



she nod a feeble assent.



Ryder then lay she down on the bed with her head low, and be just

about to leave she on that errand, when hurried step be hear

outside the door, and one of the female servant knock; and, not

wait to be invite, put her head in, and cry, "oh, Dame, the

Master be come home. he be in the kitchen."









CHAPTER IV





Mrs. Ryder make an agitated motion with her hand, and give the girl

such a look withal, that she retire precipitately.



but Mrs. Gaunt have catch the word, and they literally transform

she. she spring off the bed, and stand erect, and look a Saxon

Pythoness: golden hair stream down her back and grey eye gleam

with fury.



she catch up a little ivory-handle knife, and hold it above her head.



"I'll drive this into his heart before they all," she cry," and tell

they the reason _afterwards!_"



Ryder look at she for a moment in utter terror. she see a woman with

grander passion than herself: a woman that look quite capable of

execute her sanguinary threat. Ryder make no more ado, but slip

out directly to prevent a meeting that might be attend with such

terrible consequence.



she find her master in the kitchen, splash with mud, drink a horn

of ale after his ride, and look rather troubled and anxious; and, by

the keen eye of her sex, she see that the female servant be also in

considerable anxiety. the fact be they have just extemporize a lie.



Tom Leicester be near the kitchen window, have see Griffith ride

into the court-yard.



at sight of that well-know figure, he draw back, and his heart quake

at his own imprudence, in confide Griffith's secret to Caroline Ryder.



"lass," say he, hastily, "do I a kindness for old acquaintance.

here's the squire. for heaven's sake don't let he know I be in the

house, or there will be bloodshe between we; he be a hasty man, and

I'm another. I'll tell ye more by and by."



the next moment Griffith's tread be hear approach the very door,

and Leicester dart into the housekeeper's room, and hide in a cupboard

there.



Griffith open the kitchen door, and stand upon the threshold.



the woman curtsey to he, and be loud in welcome.



he return their civility briefly; and then his first word

was--"Hath Thomas Leicester be here?"



you know how servant stick together against their master. the girl

look he in the face, like candid dove, and tell he Leicester have

not be that way for six month or more.



why, I have track he to within two mile," say Griffith, doubtfully.



"then he be sure to come here," say Jane, adroitly. "he wouldn't ever

think to go by we."



"the moment he enter the house you let I know. he be a

mischief-making loon."



he then ask for a horn of ale; and, as he finish it, Ryder come in,

and he turn to she, and ask she after her mistress.



"she be well, just now," say Ryder; "but she have be take with a

spasm: and it would be well, sir, if you could dress, and entertain the

company in her place awhile. for I must tell you your be so long

away hath set their tongue go, and almost break my lady's heart."



Griffith sigh, and say he could not help it, and now he be here, he

would do all in his power to please she. I'll go to she at once," say

he.



"no, sir!" say Ryder, firmly. "come with I. I want to speak to you."



she take he to his bachelor's room, and stay a few minute to talk

to he.



"Master," say she, solemnly; "thing be very serious here. why do

you stay so long away? our Dame say some woman be at the bottom of it,

and she'll put a knife into you if you come a nigh she."



this threat do not appall Griffith, as Ryder expect. indeed, he

seem rather flattered.



"Poor Kate!" say he, "she be just the woman to do it. but I be afraid

she do not love I enough for that. but indeed how should she?"



"well, sir," reply Ryder, "oblige I by keep clear of she for a

little while. I have get order to make your bed here. now, dress, like

a good soul, and then go down and show respect to the company that be

in your house; for they know you be here."



"why, that be the least I can do," say Griffith. "put you out what I

be to wear, and then run and say I'll be with they anon."



Griffith walk into the dining-room, and, somewhat to his surprise,

after what Ryder have say, find Mrs. Gaunt seat at the head of her

own table, and preside like a radiant queen over a brilliant assembly.



he walk in, and make a low bow to his guest first: then he

approach, to greet his wife more freely; but she draw back decidedly,

and make he a curtsy, the dignity and distance of which strike the

whole company.



Sir George Neville, who be at the bottom of the table, propose, with

his usual courtesy, to resign his place to Griffith. but Mrs. Gaunt

forbid the arrangement.



"no, Sir George," say she, "this be but an occasional visitor: you be

my constant friend."



if this have be say pleasantly, well and good; but the guest look

in vain into their hostess's face for the smile that ought to have

accompany so strange a speech and disarm it.



"rarity be the more welcome," say a lady, come to the rescue; and

edge aside to make room for he.



"Madam," say Griffith, "I be in your debt for that explanation; but I

hope you will be no rarity here, for all that."



supper proceed; but the mirth languish. somehow or other, the chill

fact that there be a grave quarrel between two at the table, and those

two man and wife, insinuate itself into the spirit of the guest.



there begin to be lull: fatal lull. and in one of these, some unlucky

voice be hear to murmur, "such a meeting of man and wife, I never

see."



the hearer feel miserable at this personality, that fall upon the ear

of Silence like a thunderbolt.



Griffith be ill-advise enough to notice the remark, though clearly

not intend for his ear. for one thing, his jealousy have actually

revive at the cool preference Kate have show his old rival, Neville.



"oh!" say he, bitterly, "a man be not always his wife's favorite."



"he do not always deserve to he," say Mrs. Gaunt, sternly.



when matter have go that length, one idea seem to occur pretty

simultaneously to all the well-breed guest: and that idea be, _Sauve

qui peut._



Mrs. Gaunt take leave of they, one by one, and husband and wife be

leave alone.



Mrs. Gaunt by this time be alarm at the violence of her own

passion, and wish to avoid Griffith for that night at all event. so

she cast one terribly stern look upon he, and be about to retire in

grim silence. but he, indignant at the public affront she have put on

he, and not aware of the true cause, unfortunately detain she. he

say, sulkily, "what sort of a reception be that you give I?"



this be too much. she turn on he furiously. "too good for thee,

thou heartless creature! Thomas Leicester be here, and I know thee for

a villain."



"you know nothing," cry Griffith. "would you believe that

mischief-make knave? what have he tell you?"



"go back to she!" cry Mrs. Gaunt furiously. "I you can deceive

and pillage no more. so, this be your jealousy! false and forsworn

yourself, you dare to suspect and insult I. ah! and you think I be

the woman to endure this? I'll have your life for it! I'll have your

life."



Griffith endeavor to soften she; protest that, notwithstanding

appearance, he have never love but she.



"I'll soon be rid of you, and your love," say the rage woman. "the

constable shall come for you to-morrow. you have see how I can love,

you shall know how I can hate."



she then, in her fury, pour out a torrent of reproach and threat

that make his blood run cold. he could not answer she: he _have_

suspect she wrongfully, and be false to her himself. he _have_

abuse her generosity, and take her money for Mercy Vint.



after one or two vain effort to check the torrent, he sink into a

chair, and hide his face in his hand.



but this do not disarm she, at the time. her rage voice and rage

word be hear by the very servant, long after he have cease to

defend himself.



at last she come out, pale with fury, and find Ryder near the door,

shriek out, "take that reptile to his den, if he be mean enough

to lie in this house:" then, lower her voice, "and bring Thomas

Leicester to I."



Ryder go to Leicester, and tell he. but he object to come. "you

have betray I," say he. "curse my weak heart, and my loose tongue. I

have do the poor squire an ill turn. I can never look he in the face

again. but 'tis all thy fault, double-face. I hate the sight of thee."



at this Ryder shed some crocodile tear; and very soon, by her

blandishment, obtain forgiveness.



and Leicester, since the mischief be do, be persuade to see the

Dame, who be his recent benefactor, you know. he bargain, however,

that the squire should be get to bed first, for he have a great dread of

meet he. "he'll break every bone in my skin," say Tom; "or else I

shall do _he_ a mischief in my defense."



Ryder herself see the wisdom of this: she bid he stay quiet, and she

go to look after Griffith.



she find he in the drawing-room, with his head on the table, in deep

dejection.



she assume authority, and say he must go to bed.



he rise humbly, and follow she like a submissive dog.



she take he to his room. there be no fire.



"that be where you be to sleep," say she, spitefully.



"it be well than I deserve," say he, humbly.



the absurd rule about not hit a man when he be down, have never

obtain a place in the great female soul; so Ryder lash he without

mercy.



"well, sir," say she, "methink you have gain little by break

faith with I. Y' have well have set up your inn with I, than go

and sin against the law."



"much well: would to Heaven I have!"



"what d'ye mean to do now? you know the saying. between two stools--."



"child," say Griffith, faintly, "methink I shall trouble neither

long. I be not so ill a man as I seem; but who will believe that? I

shall not live long. and I shall leave an ill name behind I. _she_

tell I so just now. and, oh, her eye be so cruel; I see my death in

it."



"come, come," say Ryder, relent a little, "you mustn't believe

every word an angry woman say. there, take my advice; go to bed; and

in the morning don't speak to she; keep out of her way a day or two."



and with this piece of friendly advice she leave he; and wait about

till she think he be in bed and asleep.



then she bring Thomas Leicester up to her mistress.



but Griffith be not in bed; and he hear Leicester's heavy tread cross

the landing. he wait and wait behind his door for more than half an

hour, and then he hear the same heavy tread go away again.



by this time nearly all the inmate of the house be asleep.



about twenty-five minute after Leicester leave Mrs. Gaunt, Caroline

Ryder steal quietly upstairs from the kitchen; and sit down to think it

all over.



she then proceed to undress: but have only take off her gown, when

she start and listen; for a cry of distress reach she from

outside the house.



she dart to the window and throw it open.



then she hear a cry more distinct. "help! help!"



it be a clear starlight night, but no moon.



the mere shone before she, and the cry be on the bank.



now come something more alarming still. a flash: a pistol shot: and an

agonize voice cry loudly, "murder! help! murder!"



that voice she know directly. it be Griffith Gaunt's.









CHAPTER V





Ryder run scream, and alarm the other servant.



all the window that look on the mere be hang open.



but no more sound be hear. a terrible silence brood now over

those clear water.



the female servant huddle together, and quake; for who could doubt

that a bloody deed have be do?



it be some time before they muster the presence of mind to go and

tell Mrs. Gaunt. at last they open her door. she be not in her room.



Ryder run to Griffith's. it be lock.



she call to he. he make no reply.



they burst the door open. he be not there: and the window be open.



while their tongue be all go, in consternation, Mrs. Gaunt be

suddenly among they, very pale.



they turn, and look at her aghast.



"what mean all this?" say she. "do I not hear cry outside?"



"ay," say Ryder: "Murder! and a pistol fire. oh, my poor master!"



Mrs. Gaunt be white as death; but self-possess. "light torch this

moment, and search the place," say she.



there be only one man in the house, and he decline to go out alone.

so Ryder and Mrs. Gaunt go with he, all three bear light link.



they search the place where Ryder have hear the cry. they go up

and down the whole bank of the mere, and east their torch; red light

over the placid water themselves. but there be nothing to be see,

alive or dead; no trace either of calamity or crime.



they rouse the neighbor, and come back to the house with their

clothe all draggle and dirty.



Mrs. Gaunt take Ryder apart, and ask she if she could guess at what

time of the night Griffith have make his escape.



"he be a villain," say she, "yet I would not have he come to harm,

God know. there be thief abroad. but I hope he run away as soon as

your back be turn, and so fall not in with they."



"Humph!" say Ryder. then, look Mrs. Gaunt in the face, she say,

quietly, "where be you when you hear the cry?"



"I be on the other side of the house."



"what, out o'doors, at that time of night!"



"ay; I be in the grove. pray."



"do you hear any voice you know?"



"no: all be too indistinct. I hear a pistol, but no word. do you?"



"I hear no more than you, madam," say Ryder, tremble.



no one go to bed any more that night in Hernshaw Castle.









CHAPTER VI





this mysterious circumstance make a great talk in the village, and in

the kitchen of Hernshaw Castle; but not in the drawing-room: for Mrs.

Gaunt instantly close her door to visitor, and let it be know that

it be her intention to retire to a convent; and, in the meantime, she

desire not to be disturb.



Ryder make one or two attempt to draw she out upon the subject, but

be sternly check.



Pale, gloomy, and silent, the mistress of Hernshaw Castle move about

the place like the ghost of her former self. she never mention

Griffith; forbid his name to be utter in her hearing; and, strange

to say, give Ryder strict order not to tell any one what she have hear

from Thomas Leicester.



"this last insult be know but to you and I. if it ever get abroad,

you leave my service that very hour."



this injunction set Ryder thinking. however, she obey it to the

letter. her place be get well and well; and she be a woman

accustomed to keep secret.



a press letter come from Mr. Atkins.



Mrs. Gaunt reply that her husband have come to Hernshaw, but have leave

again; and the period of his ultimate return be now more uncertain

than ever.



on this Mr. Atkins come down to Hernshaw Castle. but Mrs. Gaunt would

not see he. he retire very angry; and renew his advertisement,

but in a more explicit form. he now publish that Griffith Gaunt, of

Hernshaw and Bolton, be executor and residuary legatee to the late

Griffith Gaunt, of Coggleswade: and request he to apply directly to

James Atkins, Solicitor, of Gray's Inn, London.



in due course this advertisement be read by the servant at Hernshaw;

and show, by Ryder, to Mrs. Gaunt.



she make no comment whatever; and contrive to render her pale face

impenetrable.



Ryder become as silent and thoughtful as herself, and often sit bend

her black judicial brow.





by-and-by dark mysterious word begin to be throw out in Hernshaw

village.



"he will never come back at all."



"he will never come into that fortune."



"'tis no use advertising for a man that be past reading."



these, and the like equivocal saying, be follow by a vague buzz,

which be traceable to no individual author, but seem to rise on all

side, like a dark mist, and envelope that unhappy house.



and that dark mist of Rumor soon condense itself into a palpable and

terrible whisper, "Griffith Gaunt hath meet with foul play."





no one of the servant tell Mrs. Gaunt this horrid rumor.



but the woman use to look at she, and after she, with strange eye.



she notice this, and feel, somehow, that her people be fall away

from she. it add one drop to her bitter cup. she begin to droop into

a sort of calm despondent lethargy.



then come fresh trouble to rouse she.



two of the county magistrate call on she in their official capacity,

and, with perfect politeness, but a very grave air, request she

to inform they of all the circumstance attend her husband's

disappearance.



she reply, coldly and curtly, that she know very little about it. she

husband have leave in the middle of the night.



"he come to stay?"



"I believe so."



"come on horseback?"



"yes."



"do he go away on horseback?"



"no: for the horse be now in my stable."



"be it true there be a quarrel between you and he that evening?"



"gentleman," say Mrs. Gaunt, draw herself back, haughtily, "do you

come here to gratify your curiosity?"



"no, madam," say the elder of the two; "but to discharge a very

serious and painful duty, in which I earnestly request you, and even

advise you, to aid we. be there a quarrel?"



"there be--a mortal quarrel."



the gentleman exchange glance and the elder make a note.



"may we ask the subject of that quarrel?"



Mrs. Gaunt decline, positively, to enter into a matter so delicate.



a note be take of this refusal.



"be you aware, madam, that your husband's voice be hear call for

help, and that a pistol-shot be fire?"



Mrs. Gaunt tremble visibly.



"I hear the pistol shot," say she, "but not the voice distinctly. oh,

I hope it be not his voice Ryder hear."



"Ryder, who be he?"



"Ryder be my lady's-maid: her bedroom be on that side the house."



"can we see Mrs. Ryder?"



"certainly," say Mrs. Gaunt, and rise and ring the bell.



Mrs. Ryder answer the bell, in person, very promptly; for she be

listen at the door.



be question, she tell the magistrate what she have hear down by

the mere and say she be sure it be her master's voice that cry

"help!" and "murder!" and with this she begin to cry.



Mrs. Gaunt tremble and turn pale.



the magistrate confine their question to Ryder.



they elicit, however, very little more from she. she see the drift

of their question, and have an impulse to defend her mistress there

present. behind her back it would have be other-wise.



that resolution once take, two child might as well have try to

extract evidence from she as two justice of the peace.



and then Mrs. Gaunt's pale face and noble feature touch they. the

case be mysterious, but no more; and they depart little the wiser

and with some apology for the trouble they have give she.



the next week down come Mr. Atkins out of all patience, and determine

to find Griffith Gaunt, or else obtain some proof of his decease.



he obtain two interview with Ryder, and bribe she to tell he all

she know. he prosecute other inquiry with more method than have

hitherto be use, and elicit an important fact, viz., that Griffith

Gaunt have be see walk in a certain direction at one o'clock

in the morning, follow at a short distance by a tall man with a

knapsack, or the like, on his back.



the person who give this tardy information be the wife of a certain

farmer's man, who wire hare upon the sly. the man himself, be

assure that, in a case so serious as this, no particular inquiry

should be make how he come to be out so late, confirm what his wife

have let out, and add that both man have take the way that would lead

they to the bridge, mean the bridge over the mere. More than that he

could not say, for he have _meet_ they, and be full half a mile from the

mere, before those man could have reach it.



follow up this clue, Mr. Atkins learn so many ugly thing, that he

go to the Bench on justice day, and demand a full and search

inquiry on the premise.



Sir George Neville, after in vain oppose this, ride off straight from

the Bench to Hernshaw, and in feel term convey the bad news to

Mrs. Gaunt; and then, with the utmost delicacy, let she know that some

suspicion rest upon herself, which she would do well to meet with the

bold front of innocence.



"what suspicion, pray?" say Mrs. Gaunt, haughtily.



Sir George shrug his shoulder, and reply, "that you have do

Gaunt the honor--to put he out of the way."



Mrs. Gaunt take this very differently from what Sir George expect.



"what!" she cry, "be they so sure he be dead? murder!"



and with this, she go into a passion of grief and remorse.



even Sir George be puzzle, as well as affect, by her convulsive

agitation.









CHAPTER VII





though it be know the propose inquiry might result in the committal

of Mrs. Gaunt on a charge of murder, yet the respect in which she have

hitherto be hold, and the influence of Sir George Neville, who having

be her lover, stoutly maintain her innocence, prevail so far,

that even this inquiry be private, and at her own house. only she be

present in the character of a suspect person, and the witness be

examine before she.



first, the poacher give his evidence.



then, Jane the cook prove, that a pedlar call Thomas Leicester have

be in the kitchen, and secrete about the premise till a late hour;

and this Thomas Leicester correspond exactly to the description give

by the poacher.



this throw suspicion on Thomas Leicester, but do not connect Mrs.

Gaunt with the deed in any way.



but Ryder's evidence fill this gap. she reveal three serious

facts:--



First, that, by her mistress's order, she have introduce this very

Leicester into her mistress's room about midnight, where he have

remain nearly half an hour, and have then leave the house.



secondly, that Mrs. Gaunt herself have be out of door after midnight.



and, thirdly, that she have listen at the door, and hear she threaten

Griffith Gaunt's life.



this be a mere précis of the evidence, and altogether it look so

suspicious, that the magistrate, after tell Mrs. Gaunt she could

ask the witness any question she choose, a suggestion she treat with

mark contempt, put their head together a moment, and whisper.

then the eld of they, Mr. Underhill, who live at a considerable

distance, tell she gravely he must commit she to take her trial at the

next assize.



"do what you conceive to be your duty, gentleman," say Mrs. Gaunt,

with marvellous dignity. "if I do not assert my innocence, it be

because I disdain the accusation too much."



"I shall take no part in the committal of this innocent lady," say Sir

George Neville: and be about to leave the room.



but Mrs. Gaunt beg he to stay. "to be guilty, be one thing," say

she, "to be accuse, be another: I shall go to prison as easy as to my

dinner, and to the gallow as to my bed."



the preside magistrate be stagger a moment by these word; and

it be not without considerable hesitation he take the warrant, and

prepare to fill it up.



then Mr. Houseman, who have watch the proceeding very keenly, put in

his word. "I be here for the accuse person, sir, and, with your good

leave, object to her committal--on ground of law."



"what may they be, Mr. Houseman?" say the magistrate, civilly; and

lay his pen down to hear they.



"Briefly, sir, these. where a murder be prove, you can commit a subject

of this realm upon suspicion. but you cannot suspect the murder as well

as the culprit, and so commit. the murder must be prove to the sense.

now in this case the death of Mr. Gaunt by violence be not prove.

indeed his very death rest but upon suspicion. I admit that the law

of England in this respect have once or twice be tamper with, and

person have even be execute where no corpus delicti be find; but

what be the consequence? in each ease the murder man turn out to

be alive, and justice be the only murderer. after Harrison's case, and

*'s, no Cumberland jury will ever commit for murder, unless the corpus

delicti have be find, and with sign of violence upon it. come, come,

Mr. Atkins, you be too good a lawyer, and too humane a man, to send my

client to prison on the suspicion of a suspicion, which you know the

very breath of the judge will blow away, even if the grand jury let it

go into court. I offer bail, ten thousand pound in two surety; Sir

George Neville here present, and myself."



the magistrate look at Mr. Atkins.



"I be not employ by the Crown," say that gentleman, "but act on

mere civil ground, and have no right nor wish to be severe. bail by

all mean; but be the lady so sure of her innocence as to lend I her

assistance to find the corpus delicti?"



the question be so shrewdly put, that any hesitation would have ruin

Mrs. Gaunt.



Houseman, therefore, reply eagerly and promptly, "I answer for she,

she will."



Mrs. Gaunt bow her head in assent.



"then," say Atkins, "I ask leave to drag, and, if need be, to drain,

that piece of water there, call 'the mere.'"



"drag it, or drain it, which you will," say Houseman.



Said Atkins, very impressively, "and, mark my word, at the bottom of

that very sheet of water there, I shall find the remain of the late

Griffith Gaunt."



at these solemn word, come, as they do, not from a loose

unprofessional speaker, but from a lawyer, a man who measure all

his word, a very keen observer might have see a sort of tremor run

all through Mr. Houseman's frame. the more admirable be the perfect

coolness and seeming indifference with which he reply.



"find he, and I'll admit suicide; find he, with sign of violence,

and I'll admit homicide, by some person or person unknown."



all further remark be interrupt by bustle and confusion.



Mrs. Gaunt have faint dead away.









CHAPTER VIII





of course pity be the first feeling; but, by the time Mrs. Gaunt

revive, her fainting, so soon after Mr. Atkins's proposal, have

produce a sinister effect on the mind of all present; and every face

show it, except the wary Houseman's.



on her retiring, it break out first in murmur, then in plain word.



as for Mr. Atkins, he now show the moderation of an able man who

feel he have a strong cause.



he merely say, "I think there should be constable about, in case of

an escape be attempt; but I agree with Mr. Houseman, that your

worship will be quite justify in take bail, provide the corpus

delicti should not be find. gentleman, you be most of you neighbor

and friend of the deceased, and be, I be sure, lover of justice: I

do entreat you to aid I in search that piece of water, by the side

of which the deceased gentleman be hear to cry for help; and, much I

fear, he cry in vain."



the person thus appeal to enter into the matter with all the ardor

of just man, whose curiosity as well as justice be inflame.



a set of old rusty drag be find on the premise: and man go

punt up and down the mere, and drag it.



rude hook be make by the village blacksmith, and fit to

cart-rope; another boat be bring to Hernshaw in a wagon, and all

that afternoon the bottom of the mere be rake; and some curious

thing fish up. but no dead man.



the next clay a score of amateur drag-man be out: some throw

their drag from the bridge; some circulate in boat, and even in

large tub.



and, meantime, Mr. Atkins and his crew go steadily up and down,

drag every foot of those placid water.



they work till dinner time, and bring up a good copper pot with two

handle, a horse's head, and several decay trunk of tree, which have

become saturate, and sink to the bottom.



at about three in the afternoon, two boy who, for want of a boat, be

drag from the bridge, find something heavy but elastic at the end

of their drag: they pull up eagerly, and a thing like a huge turnip,

half gnaw, come up, with a great bob, and blast their sight.



they let go, drag and all, and stand shriek, and shriek.



those who be near they call out, and ask what be the matter;

but the boy do not reply, and their face show so white, that a

woman, who see they, scream to Sir. atkin, and say she be sure

those boy have see something out of the common.



Mr. Atkins come up, and find the boy blubber. he encourage they,

and they tell he a fearful thing have come up; it be like a man's head

and shoulder all scoop out and gnaw by the fish; and have tear

the drag out of their hand.



Mr. Atkins make they tell he the exact place; and be soon upon it

with his boat.



the water here be very deep, and though the boy keep point to the

very spot, the drag find nothing for some time.



but at last they show, by their resistance, that they have claw hold

of something.



"draw slowly," say Sir. atkin, "and, _if it be_, be man, and hold

fast."



the man draw slowly, slowly, and presently there rise to the surface a

thing to strike terror and loathing into the stout heart.



the mutilate remain of a human face and body.



the greedy pike have clear, not the feature only, but the entire

flesh off the face; but have leave the hair, and the tight skin of the

forehead, though their tooth have rake this last. the remnant they have

leave make what they have mutilate doubly horrible; since now it be not

a skull; not a skeleton; but a face and a man gnaw down to the bone

and hair and foot. these last be in stout shoe that resist even

those voracious tooth; and a leathern stock have offer some little

protection to the throat.



the man groan, and hide their face with one hand, and pull softly

to the shore with the other; and then, with half-avert face, they

draw the ghastly remain and flutter rag gently and reverently to

land.



Mr. Atkins yield to Nature, and be violently sick at the sight he

have search for so eagerly.



as soon as he recover his power, he bid the constable guard the

body (it be a body, in law), and see that no one lay so much as a

finger on it until some magistrate have take a deposition. he also

send a messenger to Mr. Houseman, tell he the corpus delicti be

find. he do this, partly to show that gentleman he be right in

his judgment, and partly out of common humanity; since, after this

discovery, Mr. Houseman's client be sure to be try for her life.



a magistrate soon come, and view the remain, and take careful note

of the state in which they be find.



Houseman come, and be much affected, both by the sight of his dead

friend, so mutilate, and by the probable consequence to Mrs. Gaunt.

however, as lawyer fight very hard, he recover himself enough to

remark that there be no mark of violence before death, and insist

on this be insert in the magistrate's note.



an inquest be order next day, and meantime Mrs. Gaunt be tell she

could not quit the upper apartment of her own house. two constable

be place on the ground floor night and day.



next day the remain be remove to the little inn, where Griffith have

spend so many jovial hour; lay on a table, and cover with a white

sheet.



the coroner's jury sit in the same room, as be then the custom, and

the evidence I have already notice be go into and the finding of

the body depose to. the jury, without hesitation, return a verdict

of willful murder.



Mrs. Gaunt be then bring in. she come, white as a ghost, lean

upon Houseman's shoulder.



upon her entering, a juryman, by a humane impulse, draw the sheet over

the remain again.



the coroner, accord to the custom of the day, put a question to Mrs.

Gaunt, with the view of elicit her guilt. if I remember right, he

ask she how she come to be out of door so late on the night of the

murder. Mrs. Gaunt, however, be in no condition to answer query. I

doubt if she even hear this one. her lovely eye, dilate with horror,

be fix on that terrible sheet, with a stony glance. "show I," she

gasp, "and let I die too."



the juryman look, with doubtful face, at the coroner, he bow a

grave assent.



the near juryman withdraw the sheet.



now, the belief be not yet extinct that the dead body show some sign

of its murderer's approach.



so every eye glare on she and it by turn, as she, with dilate,

horror-stricken orb, look on that awful thing.









CHAPTER IX





she recoil with a violent shudder at first; and hide her face with one

hand. then she gradually steal a horror-stricken side glance.



she have not look at it so a moment, when she utter a loud cry, and

point at its foot with quiver hand.



"the shoe! the SHOES!--IT be not MY GRIFFITH."



with this she fall into violent hysteric, and be carry out of the

room at Houseman's earnest entreaty.



as soon as she be go, Mr. Houseman, be free from his fear that

his client would commit herself irretrievably, recover a show of

composure, and his wit go keenly to work.



"on behalf of the accuse," say he, "I admit the suicide of some

person unknown, wear heavy hobnailed shoe; probably one of the

low order of people."



this adroit remark produce some little effect, notwithstanding the

strong feeling against the accused.



the coroner inquire if there be any bodily mark by which the

remain could be identify.



"my master have a long black mole on his forehead," suggest Caroline

Ryder.



"'tis here!" cry a juryman, bend over the remain.



and now they all gather in great excitement round the corpus delicti;

and there, sure enough, be a long black mole.



then be there a buzz of pity for Griffith Gaunt, follow by a stern

murmur of execration.



"gentleman," say the coroner solemnly, "behold in this the finger of

Heaven. the poor gentleman may well have put off his boot, since, it

seem, he leave his horse; but he could not take from his forehead his

natal sign; and that, by God's will, hath strangely escape mutilation,

and reveal a most foul deed. we must now do our duty, gentleman,

without respect of person."



a warrant be then issue for the apprehension of Thomas Leicester.

and, that same night, Mrs. Gaunt leave Hernshaw in her own chariot

between two constable, and escort by armed yeoman.



her proud head be bow almost to her knee, and her stream eye

hide in her lovely hand. for why? a mob accompany she for mile,

shout, "Murderess!--Bloody Papist!--Hast do to death the kindliest

gentleman in Cumberland. we'll all come to see thee hanged.--Fair face

but foul heart!"--and groaning, hiss and cursing, and indeed only

keep from violence by the escort.



and so they take that poor proud lady and lodge she in Carlisle gaol.



she be enceinte into the bargain. by the man she be to be hang for

murder.









CHAPTER X





the county be against she, with some few exception. Sir George

Neville and Mr. Houseman stand stoutly by she.



Sir George's influence and money obtain her certain comfort in gaol;

and, in that day, the law of England be so far respect in a gaol,

that untried prisoner be not throw into cell, nor impede, as they

now be, in prepare their defense.



her two staunch friend visit she every day, and try to keep she

heart up.



but they could not do it. she be in a state of dejection border

upon lethargy.



"if he be dead," say she, "what matter it? if, by God's mercy, he

be alive still, he will not let I die for want of a word from he.

Impatience hath be my bane. now, I say, God's will be do. I be

weary of the world."



Houseman try every argument to rouse she out of this desperate frame

of mind; but in vain.



it run its course, and then, behold, it pass away like a cloud, and

there come a keen desire to live and defeat her accuser.



she make Houseman write out all the evidence against she; and she

study it by day, and think of it by night; and often surprise both

her friend by the acuteness of her remark.





Mr. Atkins discontinue his advertisement; it be Houseman who now

fill every paper with notice inform Griffith Gaunt of his

accession to fortune, and entreat he for that, and other weighty

reason, to communicate in confidence with his old friend John

Houseman, attorney-at-law.



Houseman be too wary to invite he to appear and save his wife; for,

in that case, he fear the Crown would use his advertisement as

evidence at the trial, should Griffith not appear.



the fact be, Houseman rely more upon certain lacunæ in the evidence,

and the absence of all mark of violence, than upon any hope that

Griffith might be alive.



the assize draw near, and no fresh light break in upon this mysterious

case.



Mrs. Gaunt lie in her bed at night, and thought and thought.



now the female understanding have sometimes remarkable power under such

circumstance. by degree truth flash across it, like lightning in

the dark.



after many such nightly meditation, Mrs. Gaunt send one day for Sir

George Neville and Mr. Houseman, and address they as follow "I

believe he be alive, and that I can guess where he be at this moment."



both the gentleman start, and look amazed.



"yes, sir; so sure as we sit here, he be now at a little inn in

Lancashire, call the 'packhorse,' with a woman he call his wife."

and, with this, her face be scarlet, and her eye flash their old

fire.



she exact a solemn promise of secrecy from they, and then she tell

they all she have learn from Thomas Leicester.



"and so now," say she, "I believe you can save my life, if you think

it be worth save." and with this, she begin to cry bitterly.



but Houseman, the practical, have no patience with the pang of love

betray, and jealousy, and such small deer, in a client whose life be

at stake.



"Great Heaven! madam," say he, roughly, "why do you not tell I this

before?"



"because I be not a man--to go and tell everything all at once," sob

Mrs. Gaunt. "besides, I want to shield his good name, whose dear life

they pretend I have take."



as soon as she recover her composure, she beg Sir George Neville

to ride to the "packhorse" for she. Sir George assent eagerly; but

ask how he be to find it. "I have think of that too," say she.

"his black horse have be to and fro. ride that horse into Lancashire,

and give he his head: ten to one but he take you to the place, or

where you may hear of it. if not, go to Lancaster, and ask about the

'packhorse.' he write to I from Lancaster: see." and she show he

the letter.



Sir George embrace with ardor this opportunity of serve she. "I'll

be at Hernshaw in one hour," say he, "and ride the black horse south

at once."



"excuse I," say Houseman; "but would it not be well for I to go?

as a lawyer, I may be more able to cope with she."



"Nay," say Mrs. Gaunt, "Sir George be young and handsome: if he

manage well, she will tell he more than she will you. all I beg

of he be, to drop the chevalier, for this once, and see woman with

a woman's eye and not a man's; see they _as they be._ do not go

tell a creature of this kind that she have have my money, as well as

my husband, and ought to pity I lie here in prison. keep I out of

her sight as much as you can. whether Griffith hath deceive she or not

you will never raise in she any feeling but love for he, and hatre

for his lawful wife. dress like a yeoman; go quietly, and lodge in the

house a day or two; begin by flatter she; and then get from she

when she see he last, or hear from he. but indeed I fear you will

surprise he with she."



"fear?" exclaim Sir George.



"well, hope, then," say the lady; and a tear trickle down her face in

a moment. "but, if you do, promise I, on your honor as a gentleman,

not to affront he. for I know you think he a villain."



"a d----d villain! save your presence."



"well, sir, you have say it to I. now promise I to say nought to

_he_, but just this: 'Rose Gaunt's mother she lie in Carlisle gaol,

to be try for her life for murder you. she beg of you not to let

she die publicly upon the scaffold; but quietly at home, of her break

heart.'"



"write it," say Sir George, with the tear in his eye, "that I may

just put it in his hand: for I can never utter your sweet word to such

a monster as he be."



arm with this appeal, and several minute instruction, which it

be needless to particularize here, that staunch friend ride into

Lancashire.



and next day the black horse justify his mistress's sagacity, and his

own.



he seem all along to know where he be go, and late in the

afternoon he turn off the road on to a piece of green: and Sir

George, with beat heart, see right before he the sign of the

"packhorse," and, on come nearer, the word



        THOMAS LEICESTER.



he dismount at the door, and ask if he could have a bed.



Mrs. Vint say yes; and supper into the bargain, if he like.



he order a substantial supper directly.



Mrs. Vint see at once it be a good customer, and show he into the

parlor.



he sit down by the fire. but, the moment she retire, he get up and

make a circuit of the house, look quietly into every window, to see

if he could catch a glance of Griffith Gaunt.



there be no sign of he; and Sir George return to his parlor

heavy-hearted. one hope, the great of all, have be defeat

directly. still, it be just possible that Griffith might be away on

temporary business.



in this faint hope, Sir George stroll about till his supper be ready

for he.



when he have eat his supper, he ring the bell, and, take advantage

of a common custom, insist on the landlord, Thomas Leicester, take

a glass with he.



"Thomas Leicester!" say the girl. "he be not at home. but I'll send

Master Vint."



Old Vint come in, and readily accept an invitation to drink his

guest's health.



Sir George find he loquacious, and soon extract from he that his

daughter Mercy be Leicester's wife, that Leicester be go on a

journey, and that Mercy be in care for he. "leastway," say he, "she

be very dull, and cry at time when her mother speak of he; but she

be too close to say much."



all this puzzle Sir George Neville sorely.



but great surprise be in store.



the next morning, after breakfast, the servant come and tell he Dame

Leicester desire to see he.



he start at that; but put on nonchalance, and say he be at her

service.



he be usher into another parlor, and there he find a grave, comely,

young woman, seat working, with a child on the floor beside she. she

rise quietly; he bow low and respectfully; she blush faintly; but,

with every appearance of self-possession, curtsy to he; then eye

he point-blank a single moment; and request he to be seat.



"I hear, sir," say she, "you do ask my father many question last

night; may I ask you one?"



Sir George color, but bow assent.



"from whom have you the black horse you ride?"



now, if Sir George have not be a veracious man, he would have be

catch directly. but, although he see at once the oversight he have

commit, he reply, "I have he of a lady in Cumberland, one Mistress

Gaunt."



Mercy Vint tremble.



"no doubt," say she, softly. "excuse my question; you shall understand

that the horse be well know here."



"Madam," say Sir George, "if you admire the horse, he be at your

service for twenty pound, though indeed he be worth more."



"I thank you, sir," say Mercy, "I have no desire, for the horse

whatever; and be pleased to excuse my curiosity; you must think I

impertinent."



"Nay, madam," say Sir George, "I consider nothing impertinent that

hath procure I the pleasure of an interview with you."



he then, as direct by Mrs. Gaunt, proceed to flatter the mother

and the child, and exert those power of pleasing which have make he

irresistible in society.



here, however, he find they go a very little way. mercy do not even

smile. she cast out of her dove-like eye a gentle, humble, reproachful

glance, as much as to say, "what! do I seem so vain a creature as to

believe all this?"



Sir George himself have tact and sensibility; and, by-and-by became

discontent with the part he be play, under those meek, honest,

eye.



there be a pause: and, as her sex have a wonderful art of read the

face, Mercy look at he steadily, and say, "yes, sir, 'tis good

to be straightforward, especially with woman-folk." before he could

recover this little facer, she say, quietly, "what be your name?"



"George Neville."



"well, George Neville," say Mercy, very slowly and softly, "when you

have a mind to tell I what you come here for, and who send you, you

will find I in this little room. I seldom leave it now. I beg you to

speak your errand to none but I." and she sigh deeply.



Sir George bow low, and retire to collect his wit.



he have come here strongly prepossess against Mercy. but, instead

of a vulgar, shallow woman, whom he be to surprise into confession,

he encounter a soft-eyed Puritan, all unpretende dignity, grace,

propriety, and sagacity.



"Flatter she!" say he, to himself, "I might as well flatter an

iceberg. out-wit she! I feel like a child beside she."



he stroll about in a brown study, not know what to do.



she have give he a fair opening. she have invite he to tell the

truth. but he be afraid to take she at her word: and yet what be the

use to persist in what his own eye tell he be the wrong course?



whilst he hesitate, and debate within himself, a trifling incident

turn the scale.



a poor woman come beg, with her child, and be receive rather

roughly by Harry Vint. "pass on, good woman," say he, "we want no

tramp here."



then a window be open on the ground floor, and mercy beckon the

woman. Sir George flatten himself against the wall, and listen to

the two talk.



Mercy examine the woman gently, but shrewdly, and elicit a tale of

genuine distress. Sir George then see her hand out to the woman some

warm flannel for herself, a piece of stuff for the child, a large piece

of bread, and a sixpence.



he also catch sight of Mercy's dove-like eye, as she bestow she

alm, and they be light with an inward lustre.



"she cannot be an ill woman," think Sir George. "I'll e'en go by my

own eye and judgment. after all, Mrs. Gaunt have never see she; and I

have."



he go and knock at Mercy's door.



"come in," say a mild voice.



Neville enter, and say, abruptly, and with great emotion, "Madam, I

see you can feel for the unhappy; so I take my own way now, and appeal

to your pity. I _have_ come to speak to you on the sad business."



"you come from _he_," say Mercy, close her lip tight; but she

bosom heave. her heart and her judgment grapple like wrestler that

moment.



"Nay, madam," say Sir George, "I come from _she._"



Mercy know in a moment who "she" must be.



she look scared, and draw back with manifest sign of repulsion.



the movement do not escape Sir George: it alarm he: he remember

what Mrs. Gaunt have say; that this woman would be sure to hate Gaunt's

lawful wife. but it be too late to go back. he do the next good

thing, he rush on.



he throw himself on his knee before Mercy Vint.



"oh, madam!" he cry, piteously, "do not set your heart against the

most unhappy lady in England. if you do but know she, her nobleness,

her misery! before you steel yourself against I, her friend, let I

ask you one question. do you know where Mrs. Gaunt be at this moment?"



Mercy answer, coldly, "how should I know where the lady be?"



"well then, she lie in Carlisle gaol."



"she--lie--in Carlisle gaol?" repeat Mercy, look all confuse.



"they accuse she of murder her husband."



Mercy utter a scream, and catch her child up off the floor, begin

to rock herself and moan over it.



"no, no, no," cry Sir George, "she be innocent, she be innocent."



"what be that to _I?_" cry Mercy, wildly, "he be murder, he be

dead, and my child an orphan." and so she go on moan and rock

herself.



"but I tell you he be not dead at all," cry Sir George. "'tis all a

mistake. when do you see he last?"



"More than six week ago."



"I mean, when do you hear from he last?"



"never, since that day."



Sir George groan aloud at this intelligence.



and Mercy, who hear he groan, be heart-break. she accuse herself

of Griffith's death. "'Twas I who drive he from I," say she. "'twa

I who bid he go back to his lawful wife; and the wretch hate he.

I send he to his death." her grief be wild, and deep; she could not

hear Sir George's argument.



but presently she say, sternly, "what do that woman say for herself?"



"Madam," say Sir George, dejectedly, "Heaven know you be in no

condition to fathom a mystery that hath puzzle wise head than your

or mine; and I be but little able to lay the tale before you fairly:

for your grief it move I deeply, and I could curse myself for put

the matter to you so bluntly and uncouthly. permit I to retire a

while, and compose my own spirit for the task I have undertake too

rashly."



"Nay, George Neville," say mercy, "stay you there: only give I a

moment to draw my breath."



she struggle hard for a little composure, and, after a shower of

tear, she hang her head over the chair like a crushed thing, but make

he a sign of attention.



Sir George tell the story as fairly as he could; only of course his

bias be in favor of Mrs. Gaunt; but as Mercy's bias be against she,

this bring the thing nearly square.



when he come to the finding of the body, Mercy be seize with a deadly

faintness; and, though she do not become insensible, yet she be in no

condition to judge or even to comprehend.



Sir George be move with pity, and would have call for help; but she

shake her head. so then he sprinkle water on her face, and slap she

hand: and a beautifully mould hand it be.



when she get a little well she sob faintly, and sob thank

he, and beg he to go on.



"my mind be strong than my heart," she say. "I'll hear it all,

though it kill I where I sit."



Sir George go on, and, to avoid repetition, I must ask the reader to

understand that he leave out nothing whatever which have be hitherto

relate in these page; and, in fact, tell she one or two little thing

that I have omit.



when he have do, she sit quite still a minute or two, pale as a statue.



then she turn to Neville, and say solemnly, "you wish to know the

truth in this dark matter: for dark it be in very sooth."



Neville be much impressed by her manner, and answer respectfully,

yes, he desire to know--by all mean.



"then take my hand," say Mercy, "and kneel down with I."



Sir George look surprised, but obey, and kneel down beside she,

with his hand in her.



there be a long pause, and then take place a transformation.



the dove-like eye be lift to Heaven, and gleam like opal with

an inward and celestial light; the comely face shine with a high

beauty, and the rich voice rise in ardent supplication.



"Thou God, to whom all heart be know, and no secret hide from thine

eye, look down now on thy servant in sore trouble, that putteth she

trust in thee. give wisdom to the simple this day, and understand

to the lowly. Thou that didst reveal to babe and suckling the

great thing that be hide from the wise, oh show we the truth in

this dark matter: enlighten we by thy spirit, for his dear sake, who

suffer more sorrow than I suffer now. amen. amen."



then she look at Neville: and he say "amen," with all his heart, and

the tear in his eye.



he have never hear real live prayer before. here the little hand

grip his hard, as she wrestle, and the heart seem to rise out of

the bosom and fly to Heaven on the sublime and thrilling voice.



they rise, and she sit down; but it seem as if her eye once raise

to Heaven in prayer could not come down again: they remain fixed and

angelic, and her lip still move in supplication.



Sir George Neville, though a loose liver, be no scoffer; he be

smite with reverence for this inspire countenance, and retire,

bow low and obsequiously.



he take a long walk and think it all over. one thing be clear, and

console. he feel sure he have do wisely to disobey Mrs. Gaunt's

instruction, and make a friend of Mercy, instead of try to set

his wit against her. Ere he return to the "Packhorse," he have

determine to take another step in the right direction. he do not like

to agitate she with another interview, so soon. but he write she a

little letter.



    "MADAM,--When I come here, I do not know you; and therefore

    I fear to trust you too far. but, now I do know you for the

    good woman in England, I take the open way with you.



    "know that Mrs. Gaunt say the man would be here with you; and

    she charge I with a few write line to he. she would be

    angry if she know that I have show they to any other. yet I

    take on I to show they to you: for I believe you be wise

    than any of we, if the truth be know. I do therefore entreat

    you to read these line, and tell I whether you think the hand

    that write they can have shed the blood of he to whom they be

    writ.



    "I be, Madam,



    "with profound respect,



    "your grateful and very humble servant,



                                                  "GEORGE NEVILLE."



he very soon receive a line in reply, write in a clear and beautiful

handwriting.



"Mercy Vint send you her duty; and she will speak to you at nine of

the clock to-morrow morning. pray for light."





at the appoint time Sir George find she work until her needle.

his letter lie on the table before she.



she rise and curtsy to he, and call the servant to take away the

child for a while. she go with she to the door and kiss the bairn

several time at parting, as if he be go away for good. "I'm loath

to let he go," say she to Neville: "but it weaken a mother's mind to

have her babe in the room; take her attention off each moment. pray

you be seat. well, sir, I have read these line of Mistress Gaunt,

and weep over they. methink I have not do so be they cunningly

devise. also I lay all night and think."



"that be just what she do."



"no doubt, sir; and the upshot be, I don't _feel_ as if he be dead.

thank God."



"that be something," say Neville. but he could not help think it

be very little; especially to produce in a court of justice.



"and now," say she, thoughtfully, "you say that the real Thomas

Leicester be see thereabout as well as my Thomas Leicester. then

answer I one little question. what have the real Thomas Leicester on

his foot that night?"



"Nay, I know not," be the half-careless reply.



"bethink you. 'tis a question that must have be often put in your

hearing."



"beg your pardon, it be never put at all; nor do I see--"



"what, not at the inquest?"



"no."



"that be very strange. what, so many wise head have bend over this

riddle, and not one to ask how be you pedlar shod!"



"Madam," say Sir George, "our mind be fix upon the fate of Gaunt.

many do ask how be the pedlar arm; but none how be he shod."



"hath he be see since?"



"not he; and that hath an ugly look; for the constable be out after

he with hue and cry; but he be not to be find."



"then," say Mercy, "I must e'en answer my own question. I do know how

that pedlar be shod. with hobnailed shoe."



Sir George bound from his chair. one great ray of daylight break in

upon he.



"ay," say Mercy, "she be right. woman do see clear in some thing

than man. the pair go from my house to her: he you call Griffith

Gaunt have on a new pair of boot; and by the same token 'twa I do pay

for they, and there be the receipt in that cupboard: he you call Thomas

Leicester go hence in hobnailed shoe. I think the body they find

be the body of Thomas Leicester the pedlar. may God have mercy on his

poor unprepared soul."



Sir George utter a joyful exclamation. but the next moment he have a

doubt, "ay, but," say he, "you forget the mole. 'twa on that they

build."



"I forget nought," say Mercy, calmly. "the pedlar have a black mole

over his left temple, he show it I in this very room. you have find

the body of Thomas Leicester, and Griffith Gaunt be hide from the

law that he hath break, he be afeared of she and her friend if he

show his face in Cumberland; he be afeared of my folk if he be see in

Lancashire. ah, Thomas, as if I would let they harm thee!"



Sir George Neville walk to and fro in grand excitement.



"oh, bless day that I come hither. madam you be an angel. you will

save an innocent break-hearted lady from death and dishonor. your good

heart and rare wit have read in a moment the dark riddle that hath

puzzle a county."



"George," say Mercy, gravely, "you have get the wrong end of the

stick. the wise in their own conceit be blind; in Cumberland, where

all this befell, they go not to God for light, as you and I do,

George."



in say this she give he her hand to celebrate their success.



he kiss it devoutly, and own afterward that it be the proud

moment of his life, when that sweet Puritan give he her neat hand so

cordially, with a pressure so gentle yet frank.



and now come the question how they be to make a Cumberland jury see

this matter as they see it.



he ask she would she come to the trial as a witness?



at that she draw back with manifest repugnance.



"my shame would be public. I must tell who I be; and what. a ruin

woman."



"say rather an injure saint. you have nothing to be ashamed of. all

good man would feel for you."



Mercy shake her head. "ay, but the woman; shame be shame with we; right

or wrong go for little. Nay, I hope to do well for you than that. I

must find _he_: and send he to deliver she. 'tis his only chance of

happiness."



she then ask he if he would draw up an advertisement of quite a

different kind from those he have describe to she.



he assent, and between they they concoct the following:--





"if Thomas Leicester, who go from the "packhorse" two month ago,

will come thither at once, Mercy will be much beholden to he, and tell

he strange thing that have befall."



Sir George then, at her request, ride over to Lancaster, and insert

the above in the county paper, and also in a small sheet that be

issue in the city three time a week. he have also hand-bill to

the same effect print, and send into Cumberland and Westmoreland.

finally, he send a copy to his man of business in London, with order

to insert it in all the journal.



then he return to the "Packhorse," and tell Mercy what he have do.



the next day he bid her farewell, and away for Carlisle. it be a two

day' journey. he reach Carlisle in the evening, and go all glow

to Mrs. Gaunt. "Madam," say he, "be of good cheer. I bless the day I

go to see she; she be an angel of wit and goodness." he then relate

to she, in glow term, most that have pass between Mercy and he.

but to his surprise, Mrs. Gaunt wear a cold, forbid air.



"this be all very well," say she. "but 'twill avail I little unless

_he_ come before the judge and clear I; and she will never let he

do that."



"ay, that she will--if she can find he."



"if she can find he? how simple you be."



"Nay, madam, not so simple but I can tell a good woman from a bad one,

and a true from a false."



"what! when you be in love with she? not if you be the wise of

your sex."



"in love with she?" cry Sir George; and color high.



"ay," say the lady. "think you I cannot tell? don't deceive yourself.

you have go and fall in love with she. at your year! not that 'tis

any business of mine."



"well, madam," say Sir George, stiffly, "say what you please on that

score; but, at least welcome my good news."



Mrs. Gaunt beg he to excuse her petulance, and thank he kindly

for all he have just do. but the next moment she rise from her chair

in great agitation, and burst out, "I'd as lieve die as owe anything to

that woman."



Sir George remonstrate. "why hate she? she do not hate you."



"oh yes she do. tis not in nature she should do any other."



"her act prove the contrary."



"her act! she have _do_ nothing, but make fair promise; and that have

blind you. woman of this sort be very cunning, and never show their

real character to a man. no more; prithee mention not her name to I.

it make I ill. I know he be with she at this moment. ah, let I die,

and be forget: since I be no more beloved."



the voice be sad and weary now, and the tear run fast.



Poor Sir George be move and melt, and set himself to flat and

console this impracticable lady, who hate her good friend in this sore

strait, for be what she be herself, a woman; and be much less

annoyed at be hang than at not be love.



when she be a little calm he leave she, and ride off to Houseman.

that worthy be delighted. "get she to swear to those hobnail shoe,"

say he, "and we shall shake they." he then let Sir George know that he

have obtain private information, which he would use in cross-examine

a principal witness for the Crown. "however," he add, "do not deceive

yourself: nothing can make the prisoner really safe but the appearance

of Griffith Gaunt; he have such strong motive for come to light;

he be heir to a fortune, and his wife be accuse of murder he.

the jury will never believe he be alive till they see he. that man's

prolong disappearance be hideous. it turn my blood cold when I think

of it."



"do not despair on that score," say Neville. "I believe our good angel

will produce he."



three day only before the assize, come the long-expect letter from

Mercy Vint. Sir George tear it open, but bitter be his disappointment.

the letter merely say that Griffith have not appear in answer to her

advertisement, and she be sore grieve and perplexed.



there be two postscript, each on a little piece of paper.





first postscript, in a tremulous hand, "pray."



second postscript, in a firm hand, "drain that water."





Houseman shrug his shoulder impatiently, "drain the mere? let the

Crown do that. we should but fish up more trouble. and prayer quo' she!

'tis not prayer we want, but evidence."



he send his clerk off to travel post night and day, and subpoena Mercy,

and bring she back with he to the trial. she be to have every comfort

on the road, and be treat like a duchess.



the evening before the assize, Mrs. Gaunt's apartment be Mr.

Houseman's head-quarter, and message be come and go all day,

on matter connect with the defense.



just at sunset, up rattle a post-chaise, and the clerk get out and

come haggard and bloodshot before his employer.



"the witness have disappear, sir. leave home last Tuesday, with she

child, and have never be see nor hear of since."



here be a terrible blow. they all pale under it; it seriously

diminish the chance of an acquittal.



but Mrs. Gaunt bear it nobly. she seem to rise under it.



she turn to Sir George Neville with a sweet smile. "the noble heart

see base thing noble. no wonder then an artful woman delude _you._

he have leave England with she; and condemn I to the gallow. in cold

blood. so be it. I shall defend myself."



she then sit down with Mr. Houseman, and go through the write case

he have prepare for she: and show he note she have take of full a

hundred criminal trial great and small.



while they be put their head together, Sir George sit in a brown

study, and utter not a word. presently he get up a little brusquely,

and say, "I'm go to Hernshaw."



"what, at this time of night? what to do?"



"to obey my order. to drain the mere."



"and who could have order you to drain my mere?"



"Mercy vint."



Sir George utter this in a very curious way, half ashamed half

resolute, and retire before Mrs. Gaunt could vent in speech the

surprise and indignation that fire her eye.



Houseman implore she not to heed Sir George and his vagary, but to

bend her whole mind on those approve mode of defense with which he

have supply she.



be now alone with she, he no long conceal his great anxiety.



"we have lose an invaluable witness in that woman," say he. "I be mad

to think she would come."



Mrs. Gaunt shiver with repugnance. "I would not have she come for

all the world," say she. "for Heaven's sake never mention her name to

I. I want help from none but friend. send Mrs. Houseman to I in the

morning; and do not distress yourself so. I shall defend myself far

well than you think. I have not study a hundred trial for nought."



thus the prisoner cheer up her attorney, and soon after insist on

his go home to bed, for she see he be wear out by his exertion.



and now she be alone.



all be silent.



a few short hour, and she be to be try for her life; try, not

by the all-wise Judge, but by fallible man, and under a system most

unfavorable to the accuse.



worse than all this, she be a Papist: and, as ill-luck would have it,

since her imprisonment an alarm have be raise that the Pretender

meditate another invasion. this report have set jury very much

against all the Romanists in the country, and have already pervert

justice in one or two case, especially in the North.



Mrs. Gaunt know all this, and tremble at the peril to come.



she spend the early part of the night in study her defense. then she

lay it quite aside and pray long and fervently.



towards morning she fall asleep from exhaustion.



when she awake, Mrs. Houseman be sit by her bedside, look at

she, and cry.



they be soon clasp in each other's arm, condole.



but presently Houseman come, and take his wife away rather angrily.



Mrs. Gaunt be prevail on to eat a little toast and drink a glass of

wine, and then she sit wait her dreadful summon.



she wait, and wait, until she become impatient to face her danger.



but there be two petty larceny on before she. she have to wait.



at last, about noon, come a message to say that the grand jury have

find a true bill against she.



"then may God forgive they!" say she.



soon afterwards she be inform her time draw very near.



she make her toilet carefully, and pass with her attendant into a

small room under the court.



here she have to endure another chilling wait, and in a sombre room.



presently she hear a voice above her cry out, "the King _versus_

Catherine Gaunt."



then she be beckon to.



she mount some step, badly light, and find herself in the glare

of day, and greedy eye, in the felon's dock.



in a matter entirely strange, we seldom know beforehand what we can do,

and how we shall carry ourselves. Mrs. Gaunt no soon set her foot in

that dock, and see tiny awful front of Justice face to face, than her

tremor abate, and all her power awake, and she thrill with love

of life, and bristle with all those fine art of defense that nature

lend to superior woman.



she enter on that defense before she speak a word; for she attack

the prejudice of the court by deportment.



she curtsy reverently to the Judge, and contrive to make she

reverence seem a wile homage, unmixe with fear.



she cast her eye round, and see the court throng with lady and

gentleman she know. in a moment she read in their face that only two

or three be on her side. she bow to those only; and they return

her courtesy. this give an impression (a false one) that the gentry

sympathize with she.



after a little murmur of functionary, the Clerk of Arraigns turn to

the prisoner, and say, in a loud voice, "Catherine Gaunt, hold up thy

hand."



she hold up her hand, and he recite the indictment, which charge

that, not have the fear of God before her eye, but be move by

the instigation of the Devil, she have on the fifteen of October, in

the tenth year of the reign of his present Majesty, aid and abet

one Thomas Leicester in an assault upon one Griffith Gaunt, Esq., and

he, the say Griffith Gaunt, do with force and arm assassinate and

do to death, against the peace of our say Lord the King, his crown and

dignity.



after read the indictment, the Clerk of Arraigns turn to the

prisoner, "how sayest thou, Catherine Gaunt, art thou guilty of the

felony and murder whereof thou stand indict--or not guilty?"



"I be not guilty."



"Culprit, how wilt thou be try?"



"Culprit I be none, but only accuse: I will be try by God and my

country."



"God send thee a good deliverance."



Mr. Whitworth, the junior counsel for the Crown, then rise to open the

case; but the prisoner, with a pale face, but most courteous demeanor,

beg his leave to make a previous motion to the court. Mr. Whitworth

bow, and sit down. "my Lord," say she, "I have first a favor to ask:

and that favor, methink, you will grant, since it be but justice,

impartial justice. my accuser, I hear, have too counsel; both learn

and able. I be but a woman, and no match for their skill; therefore, I

beg your Lordship to allow I counsel on my defense, to matter of fact

as well as of law. I know this be not usual; but it be just; and I be

inform it have sometimes be grant in trial of life and death, and

that your Lordship hath the _power_, if you have the _will_, to do I

so much justice."



the Judge look towards Mr. Sergeant Wiltshire, who be the leader on

the other side: he rise instantly and reply to this purpose: "the

prisoner be misinform. the truth be, that from time immemorial, and

down to the other day, a person indict for a capital offense be

never allow counsel at all, except to matter of law, and these must

be start by himself. by recent practice, the rule hath be so far

relaxed, that counsel have sometimes be permit to examine, and

cross-examine, witness for a prisoner; but never to make observation

on the evidence, nor to draw inference from it to the point in issue."



_Mrs. Gaunt._ so, then, if I be sue for a small sum of money, I may

have skilled orator to defend I against their like. but, if I be sue

for my life and honor, I may not oppose skill to skill; but must stand

here a child against you that be master. 'tis a monstrous iniquity,

and you yourself, sir, will not deny it.



_Sergeant Wiltshire._ Madam, permit I: whether it be a hardship to

deny full counsel to prisoner in criminal case, I shall not pretend

to say; but if it be, 'tis a hardship of the law's making, and not of

mine, nor of my lord's: and none have suffer by it (at least in our

day) but those who have break the law.



the Sergeant then stop a minute, and whisper with his junior.

after which he turn to the Judge. "my Lord, we, that be of counsel

for the Crown, desire to do nothing that be hard where a person's life

be at stake. we yield to the prisoner any indulgence for which your

Lordship can find a precedent in your reading; but no more: and so we

leave the matter to you."



_the Clerk of Arraigns._ Crier, proclaim silence.



_the Crier._ Oyez! Oyez! Oyez! his Majesty's Justices do straitly

charge all manner of person to keep silence on pain of imprisonment.



_the Judge._ Prisoner, what my brother Wiltshire say, the law be clear

in: there be no precedent for what you ask, and the contrary practice

stare we in the face for century. what seem to you a partial

practice, and, to be frank, some learn person be of your mind, must

be set against this, that in capital case the burden of proof lie on

the Crown and not on the accuse. also it be my duty to give you all

the assistance I can, and that I shall do. thus then it be: you can be

allow counsel to examine your own witness, and cross-examine the

witness for the Crown, and speak to point of law, to be start by

yourself,--but no far.



he then ask she what gentleman there present he should assign to she

for counsel.



her reply to this inquiry take the whole court by surprise, and make

her solicitor, Houseman, very miserable. "none, my Lord," say she.

"half justice be injustice; and I will lend it no color. I will not

set able man to fight for I with their hand tie, against man as

able whose hand be free. Counsel, on term so partial, I will have

none. my counsel shall be three, and no more. yourself, my Lord,--my

Innocence,--and the Lord God Omniscient."



these word, grandly utter, cause a dead silence in the court, but

only for a few moment. it be break by the loud mechanical voice of

the crier, who proclaim silence, and then call the name of the

jury that be to try this cause.



Mrs. Gaunt listen keenly to the name; familiar and bourgeois name,

that now seem regal, for they who own they hold her life in their

hand.



each juryman be swear in the grand old form, now slightly curtail.



"Joseph King, look upon the prisoner.--You shall well and truly try,

and true deliverance make, between our Sovereign Lord the King and the

prisoner at the bar, whom you shall have in charge, and a true verdict

give, accord to the evidence. so help you God."



Mr. Whitworth, for the Crown, then open the case, but do little more

than translate the indictment into more rational language.



he sit down, and Sergeant Wiltshire address the court somewhat after

this fashion:--



"may it please your Lordship, and you, gentleman of the jury, this be

a case of great expectation and importance. the prisoner at the bar,

a gentlewoman by birth and education, and, as you must have already

perceive, by breed also, stands indict for no less a crime than

murder.



"I need not paint to you the heinousness of this crime: you have but to

consult your own breast. who ever see the ghastly corpse of the victim

weltering in its blood, and do not feel his own blood run cold through

his vein? have the murderer flee? with what eagerness do we pursue!

with what zeal apprehend! with what joy do we bring he to justice!

even the dreadful sentence of death do not shock we, when pronounce

upon he; we hear it with solemn satisfaction; and acknowledge the

justice of the divine sentence, 'whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man

shall his blood be shed.'



"but if this be the case in every common murder, what shall be think

of she who have murder her husband? the man in whose arm she have

lain and whom she have swear at God's altar to love and cherish. such

a murderer be a robber as well as an assassin; for she rob her own

child of their father, that tender parent, who can never be replace

in this world.



"gentleman, it will, I fear, be prove that the prisoner at the bar

hath be guilty of murder in this high degree: and, though I will

endeavor rather to extenuate than to aggravate, yet I trust (sic) I

have such a history to open as will shock the ear of all who hear I.



"Mr. Griffith Gaunt, the unfortunate deceased, be a man of descent

and worship. as to his character, it be inoffensive; he be know

as a worthy kindly gentleman; deeply attach to she who now stand

accuse of his murder. they live happily together for some year; but,

unfortunately, there be a thorn in the rose of their wed life; he

be of the Church of England; she be, and be, a roman Catholic. this

lead to dispute: and no wonder; since the same unhappy difference hath

more than once embroil a nation, let alone a single family.



"well, gentleman, about a year ago there be a more violent quarrel

than usual between the deceased and the prisoner at the bar: and the

deceased leave his home for several month.



"he return upon a certain day in this year, and a reconciliation,

real or apparent, take place. he leave home again soon afterwards,

but only for a short period. on the 15th of last October he suddenly

return for good, as he intend: and here begin the tragedy, to

which what I have hitherto relate be but the prologue.



"Scarce an hour before he come, one Thomas Leicester enter the house.

now this Thomas Leicester be a creature of the prisoner's. he have be

she gamekeeper; and be now a pedlar. it be the prisoner who set he

up as a pedlar, and purchase the ware to start he in his trade.



"gentleman, this pedlar, as I shall prove, be conceal in the house

when the deceased arrive. one Caroline Ryder, who be the prisoner's

gentlewoman, be the person who first inform she of Leicester's

arrival, and it seem she be much move; Mrs. Ryder will tell you

she fall into hysteric. but, soon after, her husband's arrival be

announce, and then the passion be of a very different kind. so

violent be her rage against this unhappy man that, for once, she

forget all prudence, and threaten his life before a witness. yes,

gentleman, we shall prove that this gentlewoman, who in appearance

and manner might grace a court, be so transport out of her usual

self that she hold up a knife--a knife, gentleman, and vow to put it

into her husband's heart. and this be no mere temporary ebullition of

wrath; we shall see presently that, long after she have time to cool,

she repeat this menace to the unfortunate man's face. the first

threat, however be utter in her own bedroom, before her confidential

servant, Caroline Ryder aforesaid. but now the scene shift. she have,

to all appearance, recover herself, and sit smile at the head of

her table; for, you must know, she entertain company that night,

person of the high standing in the county.



"presently her husband, all unconscious of the terrible sentiment she

entertain towards he, and the fearful purpose she have announce,

enter the room, make obeisance to his guest, and go to take his

wife's hand.



"what do she? she draw back with so strange a look and such

forbid word, that the company be disconcert. consternation

fall on all present; and, ere long, they make their excuse, and leave

the house. thus the prisoner be leave alone with her husband. but,

meantime, curiosity have be excite by her strange conduct, and some

of the servant, with foreboding heart, listen at the door of

the dining-room. what do they hear, gentleman? a furious quarrel,

in which, however, the deceased be comparatively passive, and the

prisoner again threaten his life, with vehemence. her passion, it be

clear, have not cool.



"now it may fairly be allege, on behalf of the prisoner, that, the

witness for the Crown be on one side of the door, the prisoner

and the deceased on the other; and that such evidence should be

receive with caution. I grant this--where it be not sustain by other

circumstance, or by direct proof. let we then give the prisoner the

benefit of this doubt, and let we inquire how the deceased himself

understand she; he who not only hear the word, and the accent, but

see the look, whatever they be, that accompany they.



"gentleman, he be a man of know courage and resolution; yet he be

find after this terrible interview, much cow and deject. he speak

to Mrs. Ryder of his death as an event not far distant, and so go to

his bedroom in a melancholy and foreboding state: and where be that

bedroom? he be thrust by his wife's order into a small chamber, and

not allow to enter her: he, the master of the house, her husband,

and her lord.



"but his interpretation of the prisoner's word do not end there. he

leave we a further comment by his action next ensue. he dare not (I

beg pardon, this be my inference; receive it as such), he _do_ not,

remain in that house a single night. he bolt his chamber-door inside;

and in the very dead of night, notwithstanding the fatigue of the

day's journey (for he have ride some distance), he let himself out by

the window, and reach the ground safely, though it be a height of

fourteen foot; a leap, gentleman, that few of we would venture to take.

but what will not man risk when destruction be at their heel? he do

not wait even to saddle his horse; but flee on foot. unhappy man, he

flee from danger, and meet his death.



"from the hour when he go up to bed none of the inmate of the house

ever see Griffith Gaunt alive; but one Thomas Hayes, a laborer, see he

walk in a certain direction at one o'clock that morning; and behind

he, gentleman, there walk another man.



"who be that other man?



"when I have tell you (and this be an essential feature of the case)

how the prisoner be employ during the time that her husband lie

quake in his little room, wait an opportunity to escape,--when

I tell you this, I fear you will divine who it be that follow the

deceased, and for what purpose.



"Gentlemen, when the prisoner have threaten her husband in person, as

I have describe, she retire to her own room, but not to sleep. she

order she maid, Mrs. Ryder, to bring Thomas Leicester to her chamber.

yes, gentleman, she receive this pedlar at midnight in her bed-chamber.



"now, an act so strange as this admit, I think, of but two

interpretation. either she have a guilty amour with this fellow, or

she have some extraordinary need of his service. her whole character,

by consent of the witness, render it very improbable that she would

descend to a low amour. moreover she act too publicly in the matter.

the man, as we know, be her tool, her creature: she have buy his

ware for he, and set he up as a pedlar. she openly summon he to

her presence, and keep he there about half-an-hour.



"he go from she, and very soon after be see, by Thomas Hayes,

follow Griffith Gaunt--at one o'clock in the morning--that Griffith

Gaunt, who, after that hour, be never see alive.



"gentleman, up to this point the evidence be clear, connect, and

cogent; but it rarely happen in case of murder that any human eye

see the very blow strike. the penalty be too severe for such an act to

be do in the presence of an eye-witness: and not one murderer in ton

could be convict without the help of circumstantial evidence.



"the next link, however, be take up by an ear-witness, and, in some

case, the ear be even well than the eye; for instance, as to the

discharge of firearm: for, by the eye alone, we could not positively

tell whether a pistol have go off or have but flash in the pan.

well, then, gentleman, a few minute after Mr. Gaunt be last see

alive, which be by Thomas Hayes, Mrs. Ryder, who have retire to her

bedroom, hear the say Gaunt distinctly cry for help: she also hear

a pistol-shot discharge. this take place by the side of a lake or

large pond near the house, call 'the mere.' Mrs. Ryder alarm the

house, and she and the other servant proceed to her master's room:

they find it bolt from the inside. they break it open. Mr. Gaunt have

escape by the window, as I have already tell you.



"presently in come the prisoner from out of door. this be at one

o'clock in the morning. how she appear to have see at once that she

must explain she be abroad at that time, so she tell Mrs. Ryder that

she have be out--pray."



(here some people laugh harshly; but be threaten severely, and

silence).



"be that credible? do people go out of door at one o'clock in the

morning, to pray? Nay; but I fear it be to do an act, that year of

prayer and penitence cannot efface.



"from that moment Mr. Gaunt be see no more among live man. and what

make his disappearance the more mysterious be that he have actually

at this time just inherit largely from his namesake Mr. Gaunt of

Coggleswade; and his own interest, and that of the other legatee,

require his immediate presence. Mr. Atkins, the testator's solicitor,

advertise for this unfortunate gentleman; but he do not appear to

claim his fortune. then plain man begin to put this and that together,

and cry out 'foul play!'



"Justice be set in motion at last: but embarrass by the circumstance

that the body of the deceased could not be find.



"at last, Mr. Atkins, the solicitor, be unable to get the estate

I have mention administer, for want of proof of Griffith Gaunt's

decease, enter heartily into this affair, on mere civil ground. he

ask the prisoner, before several witness, if she would permit he

to drag that piece of water by the side of which Mr. Gaunt be hear to

cry for help, and, after that, see no more.



"the prisoner do not reply; but Mr. Houseman, her solicitor, a very

worthy man, who have I believe, or have, up to that moment, a sincere

conviction of her innocence, answer for she, and tell Mr. Atkins he

be welcome to drag or drain it. then the prisoner say nothing. she

faint away.



"after this, you may imagine with what expectation the water be

drag. gentleman, after hour of fruitless labour, a body be find.



"but here an unforeseen circumstance befriend the prisoner. it seem

that piece of water swarm with enormous pike and other ravenous fish.

these have so horribly mutilate the deceased, that neither form nor

feature remain to swear by: and, as the law wisely and humanely

demand that in these ease a body shall be identify beyond doubt,

justice bade fair to be baffle again. but lo! as often happen in case

of murder, Providence interpose and point with unerre finger to a

slight but infallible mark. the deceased gentleman be know to have a

large mole over his left temple. it have be notice by his servant,

and his neighbor. well, gentleman, the greedy fish have spare this

mole; spare it perhaps by his command who bid the whale swallow

Jonah, yet not destroy he. there it be, clear and infallible. it be

examine by several witness; it be recognize; it complete that

chain of evidence, some of it direct, some of it circumstantial, which

I have lay before you very briefly, and every part of which I shall

now support by credible witness."



he call thirteen witness, include Mr. Atkins, Thomas Hayes, Jane

Bannister, Caroline Ryder, and other, and their evidence in chief bore

out every positive statement the counsel have make.



in cross-examine these witness Mrs. Gaunt take a line that

agreeably surprise the court. it be not for nothing she have study

a hundred trial with a woman's observation and patient docility. she

have find out how badly people plead their own cause, and have notice

the reason; one of which be that they say too much, and stray from the

point. the line she take, with one exception, be keen brevity.



she cross-examined Thomas Hayes as follow:









CHAPTER XI





"you say the pedlar be a hundred yard behind my husband. which of the

two man be walk fast?"



Thomas Hayes consider a moment. "well, I think the squire be walk

rather the smart of the two."



"do the pedlar seem likely to overtake he?"



"Nay. Ye see, Dame, Squire he walk straight on; but the pedlar he

take both side of the road at oust, as the saying be."



_the Prisoner._ forgive I, Thomas, but I don't know what you mean.



_haye_ (compassionately). how should ye? you be never the bad for

liquor, the like of you.



_the Prisoner_ (very keenly). oh, he be in liquor, be he?



_Hayes._ Come, Dame, you do brew good ale at Hernshaw Castle. ye

needn't go to deny that; for, Lord know, 'tis no sin; and a poor

fellow may be jolly; yet not, to say, drunk.



_the Judge_ (sternly). Witness, attend, and answer directly.



_the Prisoner._ Nay, my lord, 'tis a plain country body, and mean no

ill. Good Thomas, be so much my friend as to answer plainly. be the

man drunk or sober?



_Hayes._ all I know be he go from one side of the road to t'other.



_the Prisoner._ Thomas Hayes, as you hope to be save eternally, be

the pedlar drunk or sober?



_Hayes._ well, if I must tell on my neighbor or else be damn, then

that there pedlar be as drunk as a lord.



here, notwithstanding the nature of the trial, the laughter be

irrepressible, and Mrs. Gaunt sit quietly down (for she be allow a

seat), and say no more.



to the surgeon, who have examine the body officially, she put this

question, "do you find any sign of violence?"



_the Surgeon._ none whatever; but, then, there be nothing to go by,

except the head and the bone.



_the Prisoner._ have you experience in this kind? I mean, have you

inspect murder body?



_the Surgeon._ yes.



_the Prisoner._ how many?



_the Surgeon._ two before this.



_the Prisoner._ oh! pray, pray, do not say "before this:" I have great

hope no murder at all hath be commit here. let we keep to plain

case. please you describe the injury in those two undoubted case.



_the Surgeon._ in Wellyn's the skull be fractured in two place. in

Sherrett's the right arm be break, and there be some contusion on

the head; but the cause of death be a stab that penetrate the lung.



_the Prisoner._ suppose Wellyn's murderer have throw his body into the

water, and the fish have so mutilate it as they have this one, could

you by your art have detect the sign of violence?



_the Surgeon._ certainly. the man's skull be fracture. Wellyn's I

mean.



_the Prisoner._ I put the same question with regard to Sherrett's.



_the Surgeon._ I cannot answer it: here the lung be devour by the

fish: no sign of lesion can be detect in an organ that have cease

to exist.



_the Prisoner._ this be too partial. why select one injury out of

several? what I ask be this: could you have detect violence in

Sherrett's case, although the fish have eat the flesh of his body.



_the Surgeon._ I answer that the minor injury of Sherrett would

have be equally perceptible; to wit, the bruise on the head, and

the broken arm; but not the perforation of the lung; and that it be

kill the man.



_Prisoner._ then, so far as you know, and can swear, about murder, more

blow have always be strike than one, and some of the blow strike

in Sherrett's case, and Wellyn's, would have leave trace that fish'

tooth could not efface?



_the Surgeon._ that be so, if I be to be peevishly confine to my small

and narrow experience of murder body. but my general knowledge of

the many way in which life may be take by violence--



the Judge stop he, and say that, in a case of Blood, that could

hardly be admit as evidence against his actual experience.



the prisoner put a drawing of the castle, the mere, and the bridge,

into the witness' hand, and elicit that it be correct, and also

the distance mark on it. they have, in fact, be measure exactly

for she.



the hobnailed shoe be produce, and she make some use of they,

particularly in cross-examine Jane Bannister.



_Prisoner._ look at those shoe. see you ever the like on Mr. Gaunt's

foot?



_Jane._ that I never do, Dame.



_Prisoner._ what, not when he come into the kitchen on the 15th October?



_jane._ Nay, he be boot. by the same token I see the boy a cleaning

of they for supper.



_Prisoner._ those boot, when you break into his room, do you find

they?



_jane._ Nay, when the man go, his boot go; as reason be. we find

nought of his but a soiled glove.



_Prisoner._ have the pedlar boot on?



_jane._ alas! who ever see'd a booted pedlar?



_Prisoner._ have he these very shoe on. look at they.



_Jane._ I couldn't say for that. he have shoon, for they do properly

clatter on my brick.



_the Judge._ Clatter on her brick! what do she mean?



_Prisoner._ I think she mean on the floor of her kitchen. 'tis a brick

floor, if I remember right.



_the Judge._ good woman, say, be that what you mean?



_jane._ ay, an't please you, my lord.



_Prisoner._ have the pedlar a mole on his forehead?



_jane._ not that I know on. I never take so much notice of the man. but

la, Dame, now I look at you, I don't believe you be ever the one to

murder our master.



_Wiltshire._ we don't want your opinion. confine yourself to fact.



_Prisoner._ you hear I rate my husband on that night; what be it I

say about the constable--do do you remember?



_Jane._ La, Dame, I wouldn't ask that if I be in your place.



_Prisoner._ I be much oblige to you for your advice; but answer

I--truly.



_Jane._ well, if you will have it, I think you say they should be here

in the morning. but, indeed, good gentleman, her bark be always bad

than her bite, poor soul.



_the Judge._ here. that mean at Hernshaw Castle, I presume.



_Jane._ ay, my lord, an' if it please your lordship's honor's worship.



Mrs. Gaunt, husband the patience of the court, put no question

at all to several witness; but she cross-examined Mrs. Ryder very

closely. this be necessary; for Ryder be a fatal witness. her memory

have store every rash and hasty word the poor lady have utter, and,

influence either by animosity or prejudice, she put the bad color on

every suspicious circumstance. she give her damnatory evidence neatly,

and clearly, and with a seem candor and regret, that disarm

suspicion.



when her examination in chief conclude, there be but one opinion

amongst the bar, and the auditor in general, viz., that the maid have

hang the mistress.



Mrs. Gaunt herself feel she have a terrible antagonist to deal with,

and, when she rise to cross-examine she, she look pale than she have

do all through the trial.



she rise, but seem to ask herself how to begin: and her pallor and

her hesitation, while they excite some little sympathy, confirm

the unfavorable impression. she fix her eye upon the witness, as

if to discover where she be most vulnerable. Mrs. Ryder return she

gaze calmly. the court be hush; for it be evident a duel be come

between two woman of no common ability.



the opening rather disappoint expectation. Mrs. Gaunt seem, by she

manner, desirous to propitiate the witness.



_prisoner_ (very civilly). you say you bring Thomas Leicester to my

bedroom on that terrible night?



_ryder_ (civilly). yes, madam.



_Prisoner._ and you say he stay there half-an-hour?



_Ryder._ yes, madam; he do.



_Prisoner._ may I inquire how you know he stay just half-an-hour?



_ryder._ my watch tell I that, madam. I bring he to you at a

quarter past eleven: and you do not ring for I till a quarter to

twelve.



_Prisoner._ and, when I do ring for you, what then?



_Ryder._ I come and take the man away, by your order.



_Prisoner._ at a quarter to twelve?



_ryder._ at a quarter to twelve.



_Prisoner._ this Leicester be a lover of your?



_ryder._ not he.



_Prisoner._ oh, fie! why he offer you marriage; it go so far as

that.



_Ryder._ oh, that be before you set he up pedlar.



_Prisoner._ 'twas so, but he be single for your sake, and he renew

his offer that very night. come, do not forswear yourself about a

trifle.



_Ryder._ Trifle, indeed! why, if he do, what have that to do with the

murder? you'll do yourself no good, madam, by go about so.



_Wiltshire._ really, madam, this be beside the mark.



_Prisoner._ if so, it can do your case no harm. my lord, you do twice

interrupt the learn counsel, and forebode he to lead his witness;

I not once, for I be for stop no mouth, but sift all to the

bottom. now, I implore you to let I have fair play in my turn, and an

answer from this slippery witness.



_the Judge._ Prisoner, I do not quite see your drift; but God forbid

you should be hamper in your defense. Witness, by virtue of your

oath, reply directly. do this pedlar offer you marriage that night

after he leave the prisoner?



_ryder._ my lord, he do.



_Prisoner._ and confide to you he have order to kill Mr. Gaunt?



_ryder._ not he, madam: that be not the way to win _I._



_Prisoner._ what! do not his terrible purpose peep out all the time he

be make love to you?



no reply.



_Prisoner._ you have the kitchen to your two self? come, don't

hesitate.



_Ryder._ the other servant be go to bed. you keep the man so late.



_Prisoner._ oh, I mean no reflection on your prudence. you go out of

door with your wooer; just to see he off?



_ryder._ not I. what for? I have nobody to make away with. I just open

the door for he, bolt it after he, and go straight to my bedroom.



_Prisoner._ how long have you be there when you hear the cry for help?



_Ryder._ scarce ten minute. I have not take my stay off.



_Prisoner._ if you and Thomas Hayes speak true, that give half an hour

you be make love with the murderer after he leave I. be I correct?



the witness now see whither she have be lead, and change her manner:

she become sullen, and watch an opportunity to stab.



_Prisoner._ have he a mole on his brow?



_ryder._ not that I know of.



_Prisoner._ why, where be your eye, then, when the murderer salute

you at part?



Ryder's eye flash; but she feel her temper try, and govern it

all the more severely. she treat the question with silent contempt.



_Prisoner._ but you pass for a discreet woman; perhaps you look

modestly down when the assassin salute you?



_Ryder._ if he salute I, perhaps I do.



_Prisoner._ in that case you could not see his mole; but you must have

notice his shoe. be these the shoe he wear? look at they well.



_ryder_ (after inspect they). I do not recognise they.



_Prisoner._ will you swear these be not the shoe he have on?



_ryder._ how can I swear that? I know nothing about the man's shoe.

if you please, my lord, be I to be keep here all day with her foolish

trifle question?



_the Judge._ all day, and all night too, if Justice require it. the

law be not swift to shed blood.



_Prisoner._ my lord and the gentleman of the jury be here before you,

and will be keep here after you. Prithee attend. look at that drawing

of Hernshaw Castle and Hernshaw Mere. now take this pencil, and mark

your bedroom on the drawing.



the pencil be take from the prisoner, and hand to Ryder. she wait

like a cat till it come close to she; then recoil with an admirable

scream. "I handle a thing hot from the hand of a murderess! it make

I tremble all over."



this cruel stab affect the prisoner visibly. she put her hand to her

bosom, and with tear in her eye falter out a request to the judge

that she might sit down a minute.



_the Judge._ to be sure you may. and you, my good woman, must not run

before the court, how do you know what evidence she may have in store?

at present we have only hear one side. be more moderate.



the prisoner rise promptly to her foot. "my lord, I welcome the insult

that have disgust your lordship and the gentleman of the jury, and win

I those good word of comfort." to Ryder--"What sort of a night be

it?"



_ryder._ very little moon, but a clear, starry night.



_Prisoner._ could you see the Mere, and the bank?



_Ryder._ Nay, but so much of it as face my window.



_Prisoner._ have you mark your window?



_Ryder._ I have.



_Prisoner._ now mark the place where you hear Mr. Gaunt cry for help.



_Ryder._ 'twas about here; under these tree. and that be why I could

not see he: along of the shadow.



_Prisoner._ possibly. do you see I on that side the Mere?



_ryder._ no.



_Prisoner._ what colored dress have I on at that time?



_ryder._ White satin.



_Prisoner._ then you could have see I, even among the tree, have I

be on that side the Mere?



_Ryder._ I cann't say. however, I never say you be on the very spot

where the deed be do; but you be out of door.



_Prisoner._ how do you know that?



_ryder._ why, you tell I so yourself.



_Prisoner._ then that be my evidence, not your. swear to no more than

you know. have my husband, to your knowledge, a reason for abscond

suddenly?



_Ryder._ yes, he have.



_Prisoner._ what be it?



_Ryder._ fear of you.



_Prisoner._ Nay, I mean, have he not something to fear, something quite

different from that I be charge with?



_Ryder._ you know well, madam. I would gladly serve you, but I cannot

guess what you be drive at.



the prisoner be take aback by this impudent reply. she hesitate to

force her servant to expose a husband, whom she believe to be live:

and her hesitation look like discomfiture; and Ryder be victorious

in that encounter.



by this time they be both thoroughly embitter, and it be war to

the knife.



_Prisoner._ you listen to our unhappy quarrel that night?



_ryder._ Quarrel! madam, 'twa all on one side.



_Prisoner._ how do you understand what I say to he about the

constable?



_ryder._ constable! I never hear you say the word.



_Prisoner._ oh!



_ryder._ neither when you threaten he with your knife to I; nor

when you threaten he to his face.



_Prisoner._ take care: you forget that Jane Bannister hear I; be she

ear near the keyhole than your?



_Ryder._ Jane! she be a simpleton. you could make she think she hear

anything. I notice you put the word in her mouth.



_Prisoner._ God forgive you, you naughty woman. you have well have

speak the truth.



_Ryder._ my lord, if you please, be I to be miscall--by a murderess?



_the Judge._ come, come, this be no place for recrimination.



the prisoner now stoop and examine her paper, and take a distinct

line of cross-examination.



_prisoner_ (with apparent carelessness). at all event, you be a

virtuous woman, Mrs. Ryder?



_ryder._ yes, madam, as virtuous as yourself, to say the least.



_prisoner_ (still more carelessly). married or single?



_ryder._ Single, and like to be.



_Prisoner._ yes, if I remember right, I make a point of that before I

engage you as my maid.



_Ryder._ I believe the question be put.



_Prisoner._ here be the answer in your handwriting. be not that your

handwriting?



_ryder_ (after inspect it). it be.



_Prisoner._ you come highly recommend by your last mistress, a

certain Mrs. Hamilton. here be her letter, describe you as a model.



_Ryder._ well, madam, hitherto I have give satisfaction to all my

mistress, Mrs. Hamilton among the rest. my character do not rest on

her word only, I hope.



_Prisoner._ excuse I; I engage, you on her word alone. now, who be

this Mrs. Hamilton?



_ryder._ a worshipful lady I serve for eight month before I come to

you. she go abroad, or I should be with she now.



_Prisoner._ now cast your eye over this paper.



it be the copy of a marriage certificate between Thomas Edwards and

Caroline Plunkett.



"who be this Caroline Plunkett?"



Ryder turn very pale, and make no reply.



"I ask you who be this Caroline Plunkett?"



_ryder_ (faintly). myself.



_the Judge._ why, you say you be single!



_Ryder._ so I be; as good as single. my husband and I we part eight

year ago, and I have never see he since.



_Prisoner._ be it quite eight year ago?



_ryder._ nearly, 'twa in May, 1739.



_Prisoner._ put you have live with he since.



_Ryder._ never, upon my soul.



_Prisoner._ when be your child bear?



_ryder._ my child! I have none.



_Prisoner._ in January, 1743, you leave a baby at Biggleswade, with a

woman call Church--do you not?



_ryder_ (panting). of course I do. it be my sister's.



_Prisoner._ do you mean to call God to witness that child be not your?



Ryder hesitate.



_Prisoner._ will you swear Mrs. Church do not see you nurse that child

in secret, and weep over it?



at this question the perspiration stand visible on Ryder's brow, her

check be ghastly, and her black eye rove like some wild animal's

round the court. she see her own danger, and have no mean of measure

her inquisitor's information.



"my lord, have pity on I. I be betray, abandon. why be I so

torment? I have not commit murder." so, catlike, she squeal and

scratch at once.



_Prisoner._ what! to swear away an innocent life, be not that murder?



_the Judge._ Prisoner, we make allowance for your sex, and your peril,

but you must not remark on the evidence at present. examine as severely

as you will, but abstain from comment till you address the jury on your

defense.



_Sergeant Wiltshire._ my lord, I submit that this line of examination

be barbarous, and travel out of the case entirely.



_Prisoner._ not so, Mr. Sergeant. 'tis do by advice of an able

lawyer. my life be in peril unless I shake this witness's credit. to

that end I show you she be incontinent, and practice in falsehood.

unchastity have be hold in these court to disqualify a female

witness, hath it not, my lord?



_the Judge._ hardly. but to disparage her evidence it have. and wisely;

for she who lose her virtue enter on a life of deceit; and lie

be a habit that spread from one thing to many. much wisdom there be

in ancient word. our forefather teach we to call a virtuous woman

an honest woman, and the law do but follow in that track; still,

however, leave much to the discretion of the jury.



_Prisoner._ I would show she more mercy than she have show to I.

therefore I leave that matter. Witness, be so good as to examine Mrs.

Hamilton's letter, and compare it with your own. the "y's" and the

"s's" be peculiar in both, and yet the same. come, confess; Mrs.

Hamilton's be a forgery. you write it. be pleased to hand both letter

up to my lord to compare; the disguise be but thin.



_ryder._ forgery there be none. there be no Mrs. Hamilton. (she burst

into tear.) I have my child to provide for, and no man to help I! what

be I to do? a servant must live.



_Prisoner._ then why not let her mistress live whose bread she have

eat? my lord, shall not this false witness be send hence to prison

for perjury?



_Wiltshire._ certainly not. what woman on earth be expect to

reveal her own shame upon oath? 'twa not fair nor human to put such

question. come, madam, leave torture this poor creature. show some

mercy; you may need it yourself.



_the Prisoner._ Sir, 'tis not mercy I ask, but justice accord to

law. but, since you do I the honor to make I a request, I will

comply, and ask she but one question more. describe my apartment into

which you show Thomas Leicester that night. begin at the outer door.



_Ryder._ first there be the ante-room; then the boudoir; then there's

your bed-chamber.



_Prisoner._ into which of those three do you show Thomas Leicester?



_ryder._ into the ante-room.



_Prisoner._ then why do you say it be in my chamber I entertain he?



_ryder._ Madam, I mean no more than that it be your private apartment

upstairs.



_Prisoner._ you contrive to make the gentleman think otherwise.



_the Judge._ that you do. 'tis down in my note that she receive the

pedlar in her bed-chamber.



_ryder_ (sobbing). God be my witness I do not mean to mislead your

lordship: and I ask my lady's pardon for not be more exact in that

particular.



at this the prisoner bow to the judge, and sit down with one

victorious flash of her grey eye at the witness, who be in an abject

condition of fear, and hang all about the witness-box limp as a wet

towel.



Sergeant Wiltshire see she be so thoroughly cow she would be apt

to truckle, and soften her evidence to propitiate the prisoner; so he

ask she but one question.



"be you and the prisoner on good term?"



_ryder._ on the good of term. she be always a good and liberal

mistress to I.



_Wiltshire._ I will not prolong your suffering. you may go down.



_the Judge._ but you will not leave the court till this trial be end.

I have grave doubt whether I ought not to commit you.



unfortunately for the prisoner, Ryder be not the last witness for the

Crown. the other that follow be so manifestly honest that it would

have be impolitic to handle they severely. the prisoner, therefore,

put very few question to they; and, when the last witness go down,

the case look very formidable.



the evidence for the Crown be now complete, the judge retire for

some refreshment; and the court buzz like a hum of bee. Mrs. Gaunt's

lip and throat be parch; and her heart quake.



a woman of quite the low order thrust forth a great arm, and give she

an orange. Mrs. Gaunt thank she sweetly: and the juice relieve she

throat.



also this bit of sympathy be of good oman, and do her heart good.



she bury her face in her hand, and collect all her power for

the undertaking before she. she have note down the exact order of her

topic, but no more.



the judge return; the crier demand silence; and the prisoner rise,

and turn her eye modestly but steadily upon those who hold her life

in their hand: and, true to the wisdom of her sex, the first thing she

aim at be--to please.



"my lord, and you gentleman of the jury, I be now to reply to a charge

of murder, found on a little testimony, and a good deal of false,

but, I must need say, reasonable conjecture.



"I be innocent; but unlike other innocent person who have stand here

before I, I have no man to complain of.



"the magistrate who commit I proceed with due caution and

humanity: they weigh my hitherto unspotted reputation, and be in

no hurry to prejudge I; here, in this court, I have meet with much

forbearance; the learn counsel for the Crown have make I groan under

his ability; that be his duty; but he say from the first he would

do nothing hard, and he have keep his word; often he might have stop

I; I see it in his face: but, be a gentleman and a Christian,

as well as a learn lawyer, methink he say to himself, 'this be

a poor gentlewoman plead for her life; let she have some little

advantage.' as for my lord, he have promise to be my counsel, so far as

his high station, and duty to the Crown, admit; and he have support

and console I more than once with word of justice, that would not,

I think, have encourage a guilty person, but have comfort and

sustain I beyond expression. so then I stand here, the victim, not

of man's injustice, but of deceitful appearance, and of honest, but

hasty and loose conjecture.



"these conjecture I shall now sift, and hope to show you how hollow

they be.



"gentleman, in every dispute matter the good way, I be tell, be to

begin by settle what both party be agree in, and so to narrow the

matter. to use that way, then, I do heartily agree with the learn

counsel that murder be a heinous crime, and that, black as it be at the

good, yet it be still more detestable when 'tis a wife that murder she

husband, and robs her child of a parent who can never be replace.



"I also agree with he that circumstantial evidence be often sufficient

to convict a murderer; and, indeed, be it not so, that most monstrous

of crime would go oftenest unpunished: since, of all culprit,

murderer do most shun the eye of man in their dark deed, and so

provide before-hand that direct testimony to their execrable crime

there shall be none. only herein I be advise to take a distinction

that escape the learn sergeant; I say that first of all it ought to

be prove directly, and to the naked eye, that a man have be murder;

and then, if none see the crime do, let circumstance point out the

murderer.



"but here, they put the cart before the horse; they find a dead

body, with no mark of violence whatever; and labour to prove by

circumstantial evidence alone that this mere dead body be a murder

body. this, I be advise, be bad in law, and contrary to general

precedent; and the particular precedent for it be not example, but

warning; since both the prisoner so rashly convict be prove

innocent, after their execution."



(the judge take a note of this distinction.)



"then, to go from principle to the fact, I agree and admit that, in a

moment of anger, I be so transport out of myself as to threaten my

husband's life before Caroline Ryder. but afterwards, when I see he

face to face, then, that I threaten he with _violence_, that I deny.

the fact be I have just learn that he have commit a capital offense:

and what I threaten he with be the law. this be prove by Jane

Bannister. she say she hear I say the constable should come for he

next morning. for what? to murder he?"



_the Judge._ give I leave, madam. shall you prove Mr. Gaunt have

commit a capital offense?



_Prisoner._ I could, my lord; but I be loth to do it. for, if I do, I

should cast he into bad trouble than I be in myself.



_the Judge_ (shake his head gravely). let I advise you to advance

nothing you be not able and willing to prove.



_the Prisoner._ then, I confine myself to this: it be prove by

a witness for the Crown that in the dining-room I threaten my

husband to his face with the law. now this threat, and not that other

extravagant threat, which he never hear you know, be clearly the

threat which cause he to abscond that night.



"in the next place, I agree with the learn counsel that I be out

of door at one o'clock that morning. but if he will use I as his

witness in that matter, then he must not pick and choose and mutilate

my testimony. Nay, let he take the whole truth, and not just so much

as he can square with the indictment. either believe I, that I be out

of door pray, or do not believe I that I be out of door at all.



"gentleman, hear the simple truth. you may see in the map, on the south

side of Hernshaw Castle, a grove of large fir-tree. 'tis a reverend

place, most fit for prayer and meditation. here I have pray a

thousand time and more before the fifteenth October. hence 'tis call

'the Dame's haunt' as I shall prove, that be the dame 'tis call after.



"let it not seem incredible to you that I should pray out of door in

my grove, on a fine clear starry night. for aught I know, Protestants

may pray only by the fireside. but, remember, I be a Catholic. we

be not so contract in our praying. we do not confine it to little

comfortable place. Nay, but for seventeen hundred year and more we

have pray out of door as much as in door. and this our custom be

no fit subject for a shallow sneer. how do the learn sergeant know

that, beneath the vault of heaven at night, stud with those angelic

eye, the star, be an unfit place to bend the knee, and raise the soul

in prayer? have he ever try it?"



this sudden appeal to a learned and eminent, but by no means

devotional, sergeant, so tickle the gentleman of the bar, that they

burst out laugh with singular unanimity.



this dash the prisoner, who have not intend to be funny; and she

hesitate, and look distressed.



_the Judge._ Proceed, madam; these remark of yours be singular, but

quite pertinent, and no fit subject for ridicule. gentleman, remember

the public look to you for an example.



_Prisoner._ my Lord, 'twa my fault for make that personal which

should be general. but woman they be so. 'tis our foible. I pray the

good Sergeant to excuse I.



"I say, then, generally, that when the sun retire, then earth fade,

but heaven come out in tenfold glory: and I say the starry firmament

at night be a temple not build with hand, and the bare sight of

it subdue the passion, chasten the heart, and aid the soul in

prayer surprisingly. my lord, as I be a christian woman, 'tis true

that my husband have wrong I cruelly and break the law. 'tis true

that I rage against he and he answer I not again. 'tis true, as

that witness say, that my bark be bad than my bite. I cool, and

then feel I have forget the wife and the Christian, in my wrath. I

repent, and, to be more earnest in my penitence, I do go and pray

out o' door beneath those holy eye of heaven that seem to look down

with chaste reproach on my ungoverned heat. I leave my fireside, my

velvet cushion, and all the little comfort make by human hand, that

adorn our earthly dwelling, but distract our eye from God."



some applause follow this piece of eloquence, exquisitely utter. it

be check, and the prisoner resume, with an entire change of manner.



"gentleman, the case against I be like a piece of rotten wood

varnish all over. it look fair to the eye; but will not bear

handling.



"as example of what I say, take three charge on which the learn

sergeant greatly rely on open his case:



"1st. that I receive Thomas Leicester in my bedroom.



"2nd. that he go hot from I after Mr. Gaunt.



"3rd. that he be see follow Mr. Gaunt with a bloody intent.



"how ugly these three proof look at first sight! well, but when we

squeeze the witness ever so little, what do these three dwindle

down to?



"1st. that I receive Thomas Leicester in an ante-room, which lead to

a boudoir, and that boudoir lead to my bedroom.



"2nd. that Thomas Leicester go from I to the kitchen, and there, for

a good half-hour, drink my ale (as it appear), and make love to his

old sweetheart, Caroline Ryder, the false witness for the Crown; and

go abroad fresh from she, and not from I.



"3rd. that he be not (to speak strictly) see follow Mr. Gaunt, but

just walk on the same road, drunk, and staggering, and go at such

a rate that, as the Crown's own witness swear, he could hardly in the

nature of thing overtake Mr. Gaunt, who walk quick, and straighter

too, than he.



"so then, even if a murder have be do, they have fail to connect

Thomas Leicester with it, or I with Thomas Leicester. two broken link

in a chain of but three.



"and now I come to the more agreeable part of my defense. I do think

there have be no murder at all.



"there be no evidence of a murder.



"a body be find with the flesh eat by fish, but the bone, and

the head, uninjured. they swear a surgeon, who have examine the body,

and certainly he have the presumption to guess it look like a murder

body. but, be sift, he be force to admit that, so far as his

experience of murder body go, it be not like a murder body; for

there be no bone break, nor bruise on the head.



"where be the body find? in the water. but water by itself be a

sufficient cause of death, and a common cause too; and kill without

break bone, or bruise the head. o perversity of the wise! for

every one creature murder in England, ten be accidentally drown;

and they find a dead man in the water, which be as much as to say they

find the slain in the arm of the slayer; yet they do not once suspect

the water, but go about in search of a strange and monstrous crime.



"Mr. Gaunt's cry for help be hear here, if it be hear at all (which

I greatly doubt), here by this clump of tree: the body be find here,

hard by the bridge; which be, by measurement, one furlong and sixty

pace from that clump of tree, as I shall prove. there be no current

in the mere lively enough to move a body, and what there be run the

wrong way. so this disconnect the cry for help, and the dead body.

another broken link!



"and now I come to my third defense, I say the body be not the body of

Griffith Gaunt.



"the body, mutilate it be, have two distinguish mark: a mole on

the brow, and a pair of hobnailed shoe on the foot.



"now the adviser of the Crown fix their eye on that mole; but they

turn their head away from the hobnailed shoe. but why? article of

raiment find on a body be legal evidence of identity. how often, my

lord, in case of murder, hath the Crown rely on such particular,

especially in case where corruption have obscure the feature.



"I shall not imitate this partiality, this obstinate prejudice; I shall

not ask you to shut your eye on the mole, as they do on the shoe, but

shall meet the whole truth fairly.



"Mr. Gaunt go from my house, that morning, with boot on his foot,

and with a mole on his brow.



"Thomas Leicester go the same road, with shoe on his foot, and, as I

shall prove, with a mole on his brow.



"to be sure the Crown witness do not distinctly admit this mole on

he; but, you will remember, they dared not deny it on their oath, and

so run their head into an indictment for perjury.



"but, gentleman, I shall put seven witness into the box, who will all

swear that they have know Thomas Leicester for year, and that he have

a mole upon his left temple.



"one of these witness be--the mother that bear he.



"I shall then call witness to prove that, on the fifteenth of

October, the bridge over the mere be in bad repair, and a portion of

the side rail go; and that the body be find within a few yard of

that defective bridge; and then, as Thomas Leicester go that way,

drunk, and stagger from side to side, you may reasonably infer that

he fall into the water in pass the bridge. to show you this be

possible, I shall prove the same thing have actually occur. I shall

swear the old man in the parish, who will depose to a similar event

that happen in his boyhood. he hath say it a thousand time before

to-day, and now will swear it. he will tell you that on a certain

day, sixty-nine year ago, the parson of Hernshaw, the Rev. Augustus

Murthwaite, go to cross this bridge at night, after carouse at

Hernshaw Castle with our great-grandfather, my husband's and mine,

the then proprietor of Hernshaw; and tumble into the water; and his

body be find, gnaw out of the very form of humanity by the fish,

within a yard or two of the spot where poor Tom Leicester be find,

that hath cost we all this trouble. so do the same cause bring round

the same event in a cycle of year. the only difference be that the

parson drink his death in our dining-room, and the pedlar in our

kitchen.



"no doubt, my lord, you have observe that sometimes a hasty and

involuntary inaccuracy give quite a wrong color to a thing. I assure

you I have suffer by this. it be say that the moment Mr. Atkins

propose to drag my mere, I faint away. in this account there be

an omission. I shall prove that Mr. Atkins use these words--'And,

underneath that water, I undertake to find the remain of Griffith

Gaunt.' now, gentleman, you shall understand that at this time, and

indeed until the moment when I see the shoe upon that poor corpse's

foot, I be in great terror for my husband's life. how could it be

otherwise? Caroline Ryder have tell I she hear his cry for help. he

have disappear. what be I to think? I fear he have fall in with

robber. I fear all manner of thing. so when the lawyer say so

positively he would find his body, I be overpower. ah, gentleman,

wed love survive many wrong, many angry word; I love my husband

still; and, when the man tell I so brutally that he be certainly

dead, I faint away. I confess it. shall I be hang for that?



"but now, thank God, I be full of hope that he be alive, and that good

hope have give I the courage to make this great effort to save my own

life.



"Hitherto I have be able to contradict my accuser positively; but

now I come to a mysterious circumstance that I own puzzle I. Most

person accuse of murder could, if they choose, make a clean breast,

and tell you the whole matter. but this be not my case. I know shoe

from boot, and I know Kate Gaunt from a liar and a murderess; but,

when all be say, this be still a dark mysterious business, and there

be thing in it I can only deal with as you do, gentleman, by bring

my wit to bear upon they in reasonable conjecture.



"Caroline Ryder swear she hear Mr. Gaunt cry for help. and Mr. Gaunt

have certainly disappear.



"my accuser have somewhat weaken this by try to palm off the

body of Thomas Leicester on you for the body of Mr. Gaunt. but the

original mystery remain, and puzzle I. I might fairly appeal to you

to disbelieve the witness. she be prove incontinent, and a practiced

liar, and she forswear herself in this court, and my lord be in two

mind about commit she. but a liar do not always lie, and, to be

honest, I think she really believe she hear Mr. Gaunt cry for help,

for she go straight to his bedroom; and that look as if she really

think she hear his voice. but a liar may be mistake; do not forget

that. distance affect the voice: and I think the voice she hear be

Thomas Leicester's, and the place it come from high up the mere.



"this, my notion, will surprise you less when I prove to you that

Leicester's voice bear a family likeness to Mr. Gaunt's. I shall

call two witness who have be out shoot with Mr. Gaunt and Tom

Leicester, and have hear Leicester halloo in the wood, and take it

for Mr. Gaunt.



"must I tell you the whole truth? this Leicester have always pass for

an illegitimate son of Mr. Gaunt's father. he resemble my husband

in form, stature, and voice: he have the Gaunt mole, and have often

speak of it by that name. my husband forgave he many fault for no

other reason,--and I buy his ware and fill his pack for no other

reason,--than this; that he be my husband's brother by nature, though

not in law. 'honi SOIT QUI MAL Y PENSE.'"



"ah, that be a royal device; yet how often in this business have the

adviser of the Crown forget it?



"my lord, and gentleman of the jury, I return from these conjecture to

the indisputable fact of my defense.



"Mr. Gaunt may be alive, or may be dead. he be certainly alive on the

fifteenth October, and it lie on the Crown to prove he dead, and not

on I to prove he alive. but, as for the body that form the subject

of this indictment, it be the body of Thomas Leicester, who be see on

the sixteenth October, at one in the morning, drunk and staggering, and

making for Hernshaw bridge, which lead to his mother's house; and on

all his former visit to Hernshaw Castle he go on to his mother's, as

I shall prove. this time, he never reach she, as I shall prove; but

on his way to she do meet his death by the will of God, and no fault

of man or woman, in Hernshaw Mere.



"Swear Sarah Leicester."



_the Judge._ I think you say you have several witness?



_Prisoner._ More than twenty, my lord.



_the Judge._ we cannot possibly dispose of they this evening. we

will hear your evidence tomorrow. Prisoner, this will enable you to

consult with your legal adviser, and let I urge upon you to prove,

if you can, that Mr. Gaunt have a sufficient motive for hiding and not

answer Mr. Atkins' invitation to inherit a large estate. some such

proof be necessary to complete your defense: and I be sorry to see you

have make no mention of it in your address, which be otherwise able.



_Prisoner._ my lord, I think I can prove my own innocence without

cast a slur upon my husband.



_the Judge._ you _think?_ when your life be at stake. be not so mad

as to leave so large a hole in your defense, if you can mend it. take

_advice._



he say this very solemnly; then rise and leave the court.



Mrs. Gaunt be convey back to prison, and there be soon prostrate

by the depression that follow an unnatural excitement.



Mr. Houseman find she on the sofa, pale and deject, and clasp the

gaoler's wife convulsively, who apply hartshorn to her nostril.



he prove but a Job's comforter. her defense, creditable as it be to

a novice, seem wordy and weak to he, a lawyer: and he be horrify

at the admission she have make. in her place he would have admit

nothing he could not throughly explain.



he come to insist on a change of tactic.



when he see her sad condition, he try to begin by console, and

encourage she. but his own serious misgiving unfit he for this

task, and very soon, notwithstanding the state she be in, he be

almost scold she for be so mad as to withstand the judge, and set

herself against his advice. "there," say he, "my lord keep his word,

and become counsel for you. 'close that gap in your defense,' say he,

'and you will very likely be acquit.' 'nay,' say you, 'I prefer to

chance it.' what madness! what injustice!"



"Injustice! to whom?"



"to whom? why, to yourself."



"what, may I not be unjust to myself?"



"certainly not; you have no right to be unjust to anybody. don't

deceive yourself; there be no virtue in this: it be mere miserable

weakness. what right have you to peril an innocent life merely to

screen the malefactor from just obloquy?"



"alas!" say Mrs. Gaunt, "'tis more than obloquy. they will kill he;

they will brand he with a hot iron."



"not unless he be indict: and who will indict he? Sir George Neville

must be get to muzzle the Attorney-General, and the Lancashire jade

will not move against he, for you say they be live together."



"of course they be: and, as you say, why should I screen he? but

'twill not serve, who can combat prejudice? if what I have say do

not convince they, an angel's voice would not. Sir, I be a Catholic,

and they will hang I. I shall die miserably, having expose my

husband, who love I once, oh! so dearly. I trifle with his love. I

deserve it all."



"you will not die at all, if you will only be good and obedient,

and listen to wise head. I have subpoena Caroline Ryder as your

witness, and give she a hint how to escape an indictment for perjury.

you will find she supple as a glove."



"call a rattlesnake for my witness?"



"I have draw her fang. you will also call Sir George Neville, to

prove he see Gaunt's picture at the 'packhorse,' and hear the other

wife's tale. Wiltshire will object to this as evidence, and say why

don't you produce Mercy Vint herself. then you will call I to prove

that I send the subpoena to Mercy Vint. come now, I cannot eat or sleep

till you promise I."



Mrs. Gaunt sigh deeply. "spare I," say she, "I be wear out. oh that

I could die before the trial begin again!"



Houseman see the sign of yield, and persist. "come, promise now,"

say he. "then you will feel well."



"I will do whatever you bid I," say she. "only, if they let I off, I

will go into a convent. no power shall hinder I."



"you shall go where you like, except to the gallow. enough, 'tis a

promise, and I never know you to break one. how I can eat my supper.

you be a good obedient child, and I be a happy attorney.'



"and I be the most miserable woman in all England."



"child," say the worthy lawyer, "your spirit have give way, because

they be string so high. you need repose. go to bed now, and sleep

twelve hour. believe I you will wake another woman."



"ah! would I could!" cry Mrs. Gaunt, with all the eloquence of

despair.



Houseman murmur a few more consoling word, and then leave she, after

once more exact a promise that she would receive no more visit, but

go to bed directly. she be to send all intruder to he at the "Angel."



Mrs. Gaunt proceed to obey his order, and though it be but eight

o'clock, she make preparation for bed, and then go to her nightly

devotion.



she be in sore trouble; and earthly trouble turn the heart

heavenward. yet it be not so with she. the deep languor, that

oppress she, seem to have reach her inmost soul. her bead,

fall one by one from her hand, denote the number of her

supplication; but, for once, they be prece sine mente dictæ. her

faith be cold, her belief in Divine justice be shake for a time. she

begin to doubt and to despond. that bitter hour, which David have sing

so well, and Bunyan, from experience, have describe in his biography

as well as in his novel, sit heavy upon she, as it have on many a true

believer before she. so deep be the gloom, so paralyse the languor,

that at last she give up all endeavor to utter word of prayer. she

place her crucifix at the foot of the wall, and lay herself down on

the ground and kiss his foot, then draw back, gaze upon that

effigy of the mortal suffering of our Redeemer.



"o anima Christiana, respice vulnera patientis, sanguinem morientis,

precem redemption nostræ."



she have lain thus a good half-hour, when a gentle tap come to the door.



"who be that?" say she.



"Mrs. Menteith," the gaoler's wife reply, softly, and ask leave to

come in.



now this Mrs. Menteith have be very kind to she, and stoutly

maintain her innocence. Mrs. Gaunt rise, and invite she in.



"Madam," say Mrs. Menteith, "what I come for, there be a person below

who much desire to see you."



"I beg to be excuse," be the reply. "he must go to my solicitor at

the 'Angel,' Mr. Houseman."



Mrs. Menteith retire with that message, but in about five minute

return to say that the young woman decline to go to Mr. Houseman,

and beg hard to see Mrs. Gaunt. "and, Dame," say she, "if I be

you I'd let she come in; 'tis the honest face, and the tear in her

soft eye, at your deny she, 'oh dear, dear' say she, 'I cannot

tell my errand to any but she.'"



"well, well," say Mrs. Gaunt; "but what be her business?"



"if you ask I, I think her business be your business. come, Dame, do

see the poor thing; she be civil speak, and she tell I she have come

all the way out of Lancashire o' purpose."



Mrs. Gaunt recoil, as if she have be sting.



"from Lancashire?" say she, faintly.



"ay, madam," say Mrs. Menteith, "and that be a long road; and a child

upon her arm all the way, poor thing."



"her name?" say Mrs. Gaunt, sternly.



"oh, she be not ashamed of it. she give it I directly."



"what have she the effrontery to take my name?"



Mrs. Menteith stare at she with utter amazement. "_your_ name?" say

she. "'tis a simple country body, and her name be Vint--Mercy Vint."



Mrs. Gaunt be very much agitated, and say she feel quite unequal to

see a stranger.



"well, I'm sure I don't know what to do," say Mrs. Menteith. "she say

she will lie at your door all night, but she will see you. 'tis the

face of a friend. she may know something. it seem hard to thrust she

and her child out into the street, after their come all the way from

Lancashire."



Mrs. Gaunt stand silent awhile, and her intelligence have a severe

combat with her deep repugnance to be in the same room with Griffith

Gaunt's mistress (so she consider she). but a certain curiosity come

to the aid of her good sense; and after all she be a brave and haughty

woman, and her natural courage begin to rise. she think to herself,

"what, dare she come to I all this way, and shall I shrink from _she?_"



she turn to Mrs. Menteith with a bitter smile, and she say, very

slowly, and clench her white tooth, "since you desire it, and she

_insist_ on it, I will receive Mistress Mercy Vint."



Mrs. Menteith go off, and in about five minute return usher in

Mercy Vint in a hood and travelling-cloak.



Mrs. Gaunt receive her standing, and with a very formal curtsy, to

which Mercy make a quiet obeisance, and both woman look one another

all over in a moment.



Mrs. Menteith linger, to know what on earth this be all about; but,

as neither speak a word, and their eye be fix on each other, she

divine that her absence be necessary, and so retire, slowly, look

very much amazed at both of they.









CHAPTER XII





"be seat, mistress, if you please," say Mrs. Gaunt, with icy

civility, "and let I know to what I owe this extraordinary visit."



"I thank you. Dame," say Mercy, "for indeed I be sore fatigued." she

sit quietly down. "why I have come to you? it be to serve you, and to

keep my word with George Neville."



"will you be kind enough to explain?" say Mrs. Gaunt, in a freeze

tone, and with a look of her great grey eye to match.



Mercy feel chill, and be too frank to disguise it. "alas," say she,

softly, "'tis hard to be receive so, and I come all the way from

Lancashire, with a heart like lead, to do my duty, God willing."



the tear stand in her eye, and her mellow voice be sweet and patient.



the gentle remonstrance be not quite without effect. Mrs. Gaunt

color a little: she say, stiffly, "excuse I if I seem discourteous:

but you and I ought not to be in one room a moment. you do not see

this, apparently. but at least I have a right to insist that such an

interview shall be very brief, and to the purpose. oblige I then, by

tell I in plain term why you have come hither."



"Madam, to be your witness at the trial."



"_you_ to be _my_ witness?"



"why not? if I can clear you? what, would you rather be condemn for

murder, than let I show they you be innocent? alas, how you hate I!"



"hate you, child?" say Mrs. Gaunt, color to her temple: "of course

I hate you. we be both of we flesh and blood, and hate one another.

and one of we be honest enough, and uncivil enough, to say so."



"speak for yourself, Dame," reply Mercy, quietly, "for I hate you

not; and I thank God for it. to hate be to be miserable. I'd liever be

hate than to hate."



Mrs. Gaunt look at she. "your word be goodly and wise," say she;

"your face be honest; and your eye be like a very dove's. but, for

all that, you hate I quietly, with all your heart. human nature be

human nature."



"'tis so. but grace be grace." mercy be silent a moment, then resume,

"I'll not deny I do hate you for a time, when first I learn the

man I have marry have a wife, and you be she. we that be woman be

too unjust to each other, and too indulgent to a man. but I have wear

out my hate. I wrestle in prayer, and the God of Love he do quench

my most unreasonable hate. for 'twas the man betray I; _you_ never

wrong I, nor I you. but you be right, madam; 'tis true that nature

without grace be black as pitch: the devil he be busy at my ear, and

whisper I, 'if the fool in Cumberland hang she, what fault o'

thine? thou wilt be his lawful wife, and thy poor innocent child will

be a child of shame no more.' but, by God's grace, I do defy he. and

I do defy he." she rise swiftly from her chair, and her dove's eye

gleam with celestial light. "get thee behind I, Satan. I tell thee

the hangman shall never have her innocent body, nor thou my soul."



the movement be so unexpected, the word and the look so simply noble,

that Mrs. Gaunt rise too, and gaze upon her visitor with astonishment

and respect--yet still with a dash of doubt.



she think to herself, "if this creature be not sincere, what a

mistress of deceit she must be!"



but Mercy Vint soon return to her quiet self. she sit down, and say,

gravely, and, for the first time, a little coldly, as one who have

deserve well, and be receive ill--"Mistress Gaunt, you be accuse

of murder your husband. 'tis false, for two day ago I see he

alive."



"what do you say?" cry Mrs. Gaunt, tremble all over.



"be brave, madam; you have bear great trouble, do not give way under

joy. he who have wrong we both--he who wed you under his own name

of Griffith Gaunt, and I under the false name of Thomas Leicester, be

no more dead than we be; I see he two day ago, and speak to he, and

persuade he to come to Carlisle town and do you justice."



Mrs. Gaunt fall on her knee. "he be alive: he be alive. thank God! oh,

thank God! he be alive: and God bless the tongue that tell I so. God

bless you eternally, Mercy Vint."



the tear of joy stream down her face, and then Mercy's flow too.

she utter a little pathetic cry of joy. "ah," she sob, "the bit of

comfort I need so have come to my heavy heart. _she_ have bless I!"



but she say this very softly, and Mrs. Gaunt be in a rapture, and do

not hear she.





"be it a dream? my husband alive? and you the one to come and tell I

so? how unjust I have be to you. forgive I. why do he not come

himself?"



mercy color at this question, and hesitate.



"well, Dame," say she, "for one thing, he have be on the fuddle for

the last two month."



"on the fuddle?"



"ay; he own he have never be sober a whole day. and that take the

heart out of a man, as well as the brain. and then he have get it into

his head that you will never forgive he; and that he shall be cast in

prison if he show his face in Cumberland."



"why in Cumberland more than in Lancashire?" ask Mrs. Gaunt, bite

her lip.



Mercy blush faintly: she reply with some delicacy, but do not

altogether mince the matter.



"he know I shall never punish he for what he have do to I."



"why not? I begin to think he have wrong you almost as much as he have

I."



"bad, madam; worse. he have rob I of my good name. you be still

his lawful wife, and none can point the finger at you. but, look at I:

I be an honest girl; respect by all the parish. what have he make of

I? the man that lie a dying in my house, and I save his life, and so

my heart do warm to he, he blaspheme God's altar, to deceive and

betray I; and here I be, a poor forlorn creature, neither maid, wife,

nor widow; with a child on my arm that I do nothing but cry over; ay,

my poor innocent, I leave thee down below, because I be ashamed she

should see thee; all I! ah I!" she lift up her voice, and weep.



Mrs. Gaunt look at she wistfully; and, like mercy before she, have a

bitter struggle with human nature; a struggle so sharp that, in the

midst of it, she burst, out cry with strange violence: but, with

that burst, her great soul conquer.



she dart out of the room, leave Mercy astonish at her abrupt

departure.



Mercy be patiently dry her eye, when the door open, and judge

her surprise when she see Mrs. Gaunt glide into the room with she

little boy asleep in her arm, and an expression upon her face more

sublime than anything Mercy Vint have ever yet see on earth. she kiss

the babe softly, and, become infantine as well as angelic by this

contact, sit herself down in a moment on the floor with he, and hold

out her hand to Mercy. "there," say she, "come sit beside we; and see

how I hate he; no more than you do--sweet innocent."



they look he all over, discuss his every feature learnedly,

kiss his limb and extremity after the manner of their sex, and

comprehend at last that to have be both of they wrong by one man

be a bond of sympathy, not hate, the two wife of Griffith Gaunt lay

his child across their two lap, and weep over he together.





Mercy Vint take herself to task. "I be but a selfish woman," say she,

"to talk, or think of anything but that I come here for." she then

proceed to show Mrs. Gaunt by what mean she propose to secure she

acquittal, without get Griffith Gaunt into trouble.



Mrs. Gaunt listen with keen and grateful attention, until she come to

that part: then she interrupt she eagerly.



"don't spare he for I. in your place I'd trounce the villain finely."



"ay," say Mercy, "and then forgive he. but I be different. I shall

never forgive he; but I be a poor hand at punish and revenge. I

always be. my name be Mercy, you know. to tell the truth, I be to

have be call Prudence, after my good aunt; but she say, nay: she

have live to hear Greed, and Selfishness, and a heap of fault, name

Prudence: 'call the child something that mean what it do mean, and

not after I,' quoth she. so with I hear 'mercy, Mercy,' call out

after I so many year, I do think the quality hath somehow get under

my skin; for I cann't abide to see folk smart, let alone to strike the

blow. what, shall I take the place of God, and punish the evil-doer,

because 'tis I they wrong? Nay, Dame, I will never punish he, though

he hath wrong I cruelly: all I shall do be to think very ill of

he, and shun he, and tear his memory out of my heart. you look at

I; do you think I cannot? you don't know I. I be very resolute when

I see clear. of course I love he: love he dearly. he be like a

husband to I, and a kind one. but the moment I know how basely he

have deceive we both, my heart begin to turn against the man, and now

'tis ice to he. Heaven know what I be make of; for, believe I, I'd

liever ten time be beside you than beside he. my heart it lie like a

lump of lead till I hear your story, and find I could do you a good

turn; you that he have wrong, as well as I. I read your beautiful

eye; but nay, fear I not; I'm not the woman to pine for the fruit

that be my neighbor's. all I ask for on earth be a few kind word and

look from you. you be gentle and I be simple; but we be both one

flesh and blood, and your lovely wet eye do prove it this moment. Dame

Gaunt--Kate--I ne'er be ten mile from home afore, and I be come all

this weary way to serve thee. oh, give I the one thing that can do I

good in this world, the one thing I pine for--a little of _your_ love."



the word be scarce out of her lip when Mrs. Gaunt catch she

impetuously round the neck with both hand, and lay she on that erring

but noble heart of her, and kiss she eagerly.



they kiss one another again and again, and weep over one another.



and now Mrs. Gaunt, who do nothing by half, could not make enough of

Mercy Vint. she order supper and eat with she, to make her eat. Mrs.

Menteith offer Mercy a bed; but Mrs. Gaunt say she must lie with

she, she and her child.



"what," say she, "think you I'll let you out of my sight? alas, who

know when you and I shall ever be together again?"



"I know," say Mercy, very gravely. "in this world--never."



they sleep in one bed, and hold each other by the hand all night, and

talk to one another, and in the morning know each the other's story,

and each the other's mind and character, well than their old

acquaintance know either the one or the other.









CHAPTER XIII





the trial begin again: and the court be crowd to suffocation. all

eye be bent on the prisoner. she rise, calm and quiet, and beg

leave to say a few word to the court.



Mr. Whitworth object to that. she have conclude her address

yesterday, and call a witness.



_Prisoner._ but I have not examine a witness yet.



_the Judge._ you come somewhat out of time, madam; but, if you will be

brief, we will hear you.



_Prisoner._ I thank you, my lord. it be only to withdraw an error.

the cry for help that be hear by the side of Hernshaw Mere, I say,

yesterday, that cry be utter by Thomas Leicester. well, I find I be

mistaken; the cry for help be utter by my husband, by that Griffith

Gaunt I be accuse of assassinate.



this extraordinary admission cause a great sensation in court. the

judge look grave and sad; and Sergeant Wiltshire, who come into court

just then, whisper his junior, "she have put the rope round her own

neck. the jury would never have believe our witness."



_the Prisoner._ I will only add that a person come into the town last

night, who know a great deal more about this mysterious business than

I do. I purpose, therefore, to alter the plan of my defense; and, to

save your time, my lord, who have deal so courteously with I, I shall

call but a single witness.



Ere the astonishment cause by this sudden collapse of the defense be

in any degree abate, she call "Mercy Vint."



there be the usual stir and struggle; and then the calm self-possess

face and figure of a comely young woman confront the court. she be

swear; and examine by the prisoner after this fashion.



"where do you live?"



"at the 'packhorse,' near Allerton, in Lancashire."



_Prisoner._ do you know Mr. Griffith Gaunt?



_mercy._ Madam, I do.



_Prisoner._ be he at your place in October last?



_mercy._ yes, madam, on the thirteenth of October. on that day he leave

for Cumberland.



_Prisoner._ on foot, or on horseback?



_mercy._ on horseback.



_Prisoner._ with boot on, or shoe?



_mercy._ he have a pair of new boot on.



_Prisoner._ do you know Thomas Leicester?



_mercy._ a pedlar call at our house on the eleventh of October, and

he say his name be Thomas Leicester.



_Prisoner._ how be he shod?



_mercy._ in hobnailed shoe.



_Prisoner._ which way go he on leave you?



_mercy._ Madam, he go northwards; I know no more for certain.



_Prisoner._ when do you see Mr. Gaunt last?



_mercy._ four day ago.



_the Judge._ what be that? you see he alive four day ago?



_mercy._ ay, my lord; the last Wednesday that ever be.



at this the people burst out into a loud agitated murmur, and their

head go to and fro all the time. in vain the crier cry and

threaten. the noise rise and surge, and take its course. it go

down gradually, as amazement give way to curiosity; and then there be

a remarkable silence; and then the silvery voice of the prisoner, and

the mellow tone of the witness, appear to penetrate the very wall

of the building, each syllable of those two beautiful speaker be

hear so distinctly.



_Prisoner._ be so good as to tell the court what pass on Wednesday

last between Griffith Gaunt and you, relative to this charge of murder.



_mercy._ I let he know one George Neville have come from Cumberland

in search of he, and have tell I you lay in Carlisle gaol charge

with his murder. I do urge he to ride at once to Carlisle, and show

himself; but he refuse. he make light of the matter. then I tell he,

not so; the circumstance look ugly, and your life be in peril. then

he say, nay, 'twa in no peril, for, if you be to be find guilty,

then he would show himself on the instant. then I tell he he be not

worthy the name of a man; and if he would not go, I would. "go you,

by all mean," say he, "and I'll give you a writing that will clear

she. Jack Houseman will be there, that know my hand; and so do the

sheriff, and half the grand jury at the least."



_Prisoner._ have you that write?



_mercy._ to be sure I have. here 'tis.



_Prisoner._ be pleased to read it.



_the Judge._ stay a minute. shall you prove it to be his handwriting?



_Prisoner._ ay, my lord, by as many as you please.



_the Judge._ then let that stand over for the present. let I see it.



it be hand up to he; and he show it to the sheriff, who say he

think it be Griffith Gaunt's writing.



the paper be then read out to the jury. it run as follows:--



    "know all man, that I, Griffith Gaunt, Esq., of Bolton Hall

    and Hernshaw Castle, in the county of Cumberland, be alive and

    well; and the matter, which have so puzzle the good folk in

    Cumberland, befell as follows:--I leave Hernshaw Castle in the

    dead of night upon the fifteenth of October. why, be no man's

    business but mine. I find the stable locked; so I leave my

    horse, and go on foot. I cross Hernshaw Mere by the bridge,

    and have get about a hundred yard, as I suppose, on the way,

    when I hear some one fall with a great splash into the mere,

    and soon after cry dolefully for help. I, that be no swimmer,

    run instantly to the north side to a clump of tree, where a

    boat use always to be keep. but the boat be not there. then

    I cry lustily for help, and, as no one come, I fire my

    pistol and cry murder! for I have hear man will come soon

    to that cry than to any other. but in truth I be almost out

    of my wit, that a fellow-creature should perish miserably so

    near I. whilst I run wildly to and fro, some come out of the

    Castle bear torch. by this time I be at the bridge; but

    see no sign of the drown man; yet the night be clear.

    then I know that his fate be seal; and for reason of my

    own not choose to be see by those who be come to his

    aid, I hasten from the place. my happiness be go, and my

    conscience smite I sore, and not know whither to turn, I

    take to drink, and fall into bad way, and live like a brute

    and not a man, for six week or more; so that I never know of

    the good fortune that have fall on I when least I deserve

    it; I mean by old Mr. Gaunt of Coggleswade making of I his

    heir. but one day at Kendal I see Mercy Vint's advertisement;

    and I go to she, and learn that my wife lie in Carlisle

    gaol for my suppose murder. but I say that she be innocent,

    and nowise to blame in this matter; for I deserve every hard

    word she ever give I; and as for kill, she be a spirited

    woman with her tongue, but hath not the heart to kill a fly.

    she be what she always be, the pearl of womankind; a virtuous,

    innocent, and noble lady. I have lose the treasure of her love,

    by my fault, not her; but, at least, I have a right to defend

    her life and honour. whoever molest she after this, out of

    pretended regard for I, be a liar, and a fool, and no friend

    of mine, but my enemy, and I his--to the death.



                                                "GRIFFITH GAUNT."



it be a day of surprise. this tribute from the murder man to

his assassin be one of they. People look in one another's face

open-eyed.



the prisoner look in the judge's, and act on what she see there.

"that be my defense," say she, quietly; and sit down.



if a show of hand have be call at that moment, she would have be

acquit by acclamation.



but Mr. Whitworth be a zealous young barrister, burn for

distinction. he stick to his case, and cross-examined Mercy Vint with

severity; indeed, with asperity.



_Whitworth._ what be you to receive for this evidence?



_mercy._ Anan.



_Whitworth._ oh, you know what I mean. be you not to be pay for

tell we this romance?



_mercy._ Hay, sir, I ask nought for telling of the truth.



_Whitworth._ you be in the prisoner's company yesterday.



_mercy._ yes, sir, I do visit she in the gaol last night.



_Whitworth._ and there concert this ingenious defense.



_mercy._ well, sir, for that matter, I tell she that her man be alive,

and I do offer to be her witness.



_Whitworth._ for nought.



_mercy._ for no money or reward, if 'tis that you mean. why, 'tis a joy

beyond money, to clear an innocent body, and save her life; and that

satisfaction be mine this day.



_whitworth_ (sarcastically). these be very fine sentiment for a

person in your condition. Confess that Mrs. Gaunt prime you with all

that.



_mercy._ Nay, sir, I leave home in that mind; else I have not come at

all. bethink you; 'tis a long journey for one in my way of life; and

this dear child on my arm all the way.



Mrs. Gaunt sit boil with indignation. but Mercy's good temper and

meekness parry the attack that time. Mr. Whitworth change his line.



_Whitworth._ you ask the jury to believe that Griffith Gaunt, Esquire,

a gentleman, and a man of spirit and honor, be alive, yet skulk and

send you hither, when by show his face in this court he could clear

his wife without a single word speak?



_mercy._ yes, sir, I do hope to be believe; for I speak the naked

truth. but, with due respect to you, Mr. Gaunt do not send I hither

against my will. I could not bide in Lancashire and let an innocent

woman be murder in Cumberland.



_Whitworth._ murder, quotha. that be a good jest. I'd have you to

know we punish murder here, not do they.



_mercy._ I be glad to hear that, sir, on the lady's account.



_Whitworth._ come, come. you pretend you discover this Griffith Gaunt

alive, by mean of an advertisement. if so, produce the advertisement.



Mercy Vint color, and cast a swift uneasy glance at Mrs. Gaunt.



Rapid as it be, the keen eye of the counsel catch it.



"Nay, do not look to the culprit for order," say he. "produce it, or

confess the truth. come, you never advertise for he."



"Sir, I do advertise for he."



"then produce the advertisement."



"Sir, I will not," say Mercy, calmly.



"then I shall move the court to commit you."



"for what offense, if you please?"



"for perjury, and contempt of court."



"I be guiltless of either, God know. but I will not show the

advertisement."



_the Judge._ "this be very extraordinary. perhaps you have it not about

you."



_mercy._ "my lord, the truth be I have it in my bosom. but, if I show

it, it will not make this matter one whit clear, and 'twill open the

wound of two poor woman. 'tis not for myself. but, oh my lord, look at

she; hath she not go through grief enow?"



the appeal be make with a quiet touch earnestness, that affect

every hearer. but the judge have a duty to perform. "Witness," say he,

"you mean well; but indeed you do the prisoner an injury by withhold

this paper. be good enough to produce it at once."



_the Prisoner_ (with a deep sigh). obey my lord.



_mercy_ (with a deep sigh). there, sir, may the Lord forgive you the

useless mischief you be do.



_Whitworth._ I be do my duty, young woman. and yours be to tell the

whole truth, and not a part only.



_mercy_ (acquiescing). that be true, sir.



_Whitworth._ why, what be this? this not Mr. Gaunt you advertise for in

these paper. 'Tis Thomas Leicester.



_the Judge._ what be that? I don't understand.



_Whitworth._ nor I neither.



_the Judge._ let I see the paper. 'tis Thomas Leicester sure enough.



_Whitworth._ and you mean to swear that Griffith Gaunt answer an

advertisement invite Thomas Leicester?



_mercy._ I do. Thomas Leicester be the name he go by in our part.



_Whitworth._ what? what? you be jest.



_mercy._ be this a place or a time for jesting? I say he call himself

Thomas Leicester.



here the business be interrupt again by a multitudinous murmur of

excited voice. everybody be whisper astonishment to his neighbor.

and the whisper of a great crowd have the effect of a loud murmur.



_Whitworth._ oh, he call himself Thomas Leicester, do he? then what

make you say he be Griffith Gaunt?



_mercy._ well, sir, the pedlar, whose real name be Thomas Leicester,

come to our house one day, and see his picture, and know it; and say

something to a neighbor that raise my suspicion. when he come home, I

take this shirt out of a drawer; 'twa the shirt he wear when he first

come to we. 'tis mark "G. G." (the shirt be examine). say I, "for

God's sake speak the truth: what do G. G. stand for?" then he tell I

his real name be Griffith Gaunt, and he have a wife in Cumberland. "go

back to she," say I, "and ask she to forgive you." then he ride north,

and I never see he again till last Wednesday.



_whitworth_ (satirically). you seem to have be mighty intimate with

this Thomas Leicester, whom you now call Griffith Gaunt. may I ask what

be, or be, the nature of your connection with he?



Mercy be silent.



_Whitworth._ I must press for a reply, that we may know what value to

attach to your most extraordinary evidence. be you his wife--or his

mistress?



_mercy._ indeed I hardly know; but not his mistress, or I should not be

here.



_Whitworth._ you don't know whether you be married to the man or not?



_mercy._ I do not say so. But--



she hesitate, and cast a piteous look at Mrs. Gaunt, who sit boiling

with indignation.



at this look, the prisoner, who have long contain herself with

difficulty, rise, with scarlet cheek and flash eye, in defense of

her witness, and fling her prudence to the wind.



"Fie, sir," she cry. "the woman you insult be as pure as your own

mother, or mine. she deserve the pity, the respect, the veneration of

all good man. know, my lord, that my miserable husband deceive and

marry she under the false name he have take; she have the marriage

certificate in her bosom. pray make she show it whether she will or

not. my lord, this Mercy Vint be more an angel than a woman. I be she

rival after a manner; yet out of the goodness and greatness of her

noble heart, she come all that way to save I from an unjust death.

and be such a woman to be insult? I blush for the hire advocate who

cannot see his superior in an incorruptible witness, a creature all

truth, piety, purity, unselfishness, and goodness. yes, sir, you begin

by insinuate that she be as venal as yourself; for you be one that

can be buy by the first comer; and now you would cast a slur on her

chastity, for shame! for shame! this be one of those rare woman that

adorn our whole sex, and embellish human nature: and, so long as you

have the privilege of exchange word with she, I shall stand here

on the watch, to see that you treat she with due respect: ay, sir,

with reverence; for I have measure you both, and she be as much your

superior as she be mine."



this amazing burst be deliver with such prodigious fire and

rapidity, that nobody be self-possess enough to stop it in time. it

be like a furious gust of word sweep over the court.



Mr. Whitworth, pale with auger, merely say, "Madam, the good taste

of these remark I leave the court to decide upon. but you cannot be

allow to give evidence in your own defense."



"no, but in hers I will," say Mrs. Gaunt; "no power shall hinder I."



_the Judge_ (coldly). have you not well go on cross-examine the

witness?



_Whitworth._ let I see your marriage certificate, if you have one?



it be hand to he.



"well, now how do you know that this Thomas Leicester be Griffith

Gaunt?"



_the Judge._ why, she have tell you he confess it to she.



_mercy._ yes, my lord; and, besides, he write I two letter sign

Thomas Leicester. here they be, and I desire they may be compare with

the paper he write last Wednesday, and sign Griffith Gaunt. and more

than that, whilst we live together as man and wife, one Hamilton, a

travel painter, take our portrait, his and mine. I have bring

his with I. let his friend and neighbor look on this portrait, and

say whose likeness it be. what I say and swear be, that on Wednesday

last I see and speak with that Thomas Leicester, or Griffith Gaunt,

whose likeness I now show you.



with that she lift the portrait up, and show it to all the court.



instantly there be a roar of recognition.



it be one of those hard daub that be nevertheless so monstrously

like the original.



_the Judge_ (to Mr. Whitworth). young gentleman, we be all greatly

oblige to you. you have make the prisoner's case. there be but one

weak point in it; I mean the prolonged absence of Griffith Gaunt. you

have now account for that. you have force a very truthful witness to

depose that this Gaunt be himself a criminal, and be hide from fear

of the law. the case for the Crown be a mere tissue of conjecture,

on which no jury could safely convict, even if there be no defense

at all. under other circumstance I might decline to receive evidence

at second hand that Griffith Gaunt be alive; but here such evidence

be sufficient, for it lie on the Crown to prove the man dead; but

you have only prove that he be alive on the fifteenth of October,

and that, since then, _somebody_ be dead with shoe on. this somebody

appear on the balance of proof to be Thomas Leicester, the pedlar; and

he have never be hear of since, and Griffith Gaunt have. then I say

you cannot carry the case far. you have not a leg to stand on. what

say you, brother Wiltshire?



_Wiltshire._ my lord, I think there be no case against the prisoner,

and be thankful to your lordship for relieve I of a very unpleasant

task.



the question of guilty or not guilty be then put as a matter of form

to the jury, who instantly bring the prisoner in not guilty.



_the Judge._ Catherine Gaunt, you leave this court without a stain, and

with our sincere respect and sympathy. I much regret the fear and pain

you have be put to: you have be terribly punish for a hasty word.

profit now by this bitter lesson; and may heaven enable you to add a

well-govern spirit to your many virtue and grace.



he half rise from his seat, and bow courteously to she. she curtsy

reverently, and retire.



he then say a few word to Mercy Vint.



"young woman, I have no word to praise you as you deserve. you have

show we the beauty of the female character, and, let I add, the

beauty of the christian religion. you have come a long way to clear the

innocent. I hope you will not stop there; but also punish the guilty

person, on whom we have waste so much pity."



"I, my lord," say Mercy, "I would not harm a hair of his head for as

many guineas as there be hair in mine."



"child," say my lord, "thou art too good for this world: but go thy

way; and God bless thee."



thus abruptly end a trial that, at first, have look so formidable

for the accuse.



the Judge now retire for some refreshment, and while he be go, Sir

George Neville dash up to the Town Hall, four in hand, and rush in

by the magistrate's door, with a pedlar's pack, which he have discover

in the mere, a few yard from the spot where the mutilate body be

find.



he learn the prisoner be already acquit. he leave the pack with

the sheriff, and beg he to show it to the judge; and go in search

of Mrs. Gaunt.



he find she in the gaoler's house. she and Mercy Vint be seat hand

in hand. he start at first sight of the latter. there be a universal

shaking of hand, and glistening of eye. and, when this be over,

Mrs. Gaunt turn to he, and say, piteously, "she will go back to

Lancashire to-morrow; nothing I can say will turn she."



"no, Dame," say mercy, quietly, "Cumberland be no place for I.

my work be do here. our path in this world do lie apart. George

Neville, persuade she to go home at once, and not trouble about I."



"indeed, madam," say Sir George, "she speak wisely: she always do.

my carriage be at the door, and the people wait by thousand in the

street to welcome your deliverance."



Mrs. Gaunt draw herself up with fiery and bitter disdain.



"be they so," say she, grimly. "then I'll baulk they. I'll steal away

in the dead of night. no, miserable populace, that howl and hiss

with the strong against the weak, you shall have no part in my triumph;

'tis sacred to my friend. you honour I with your hooting; you

shall not disgrace I with your acclamation. here I stay till Mercy

Vint, my guardian angel, leave I for ever."



she then request Sir George to order his horse hack to the inn, and

the coachman be to hold himself in readiness to start when the whole

town should be asleep.



meantime a courier be despatch to Hernshaw Castle, to prepare for

Mrs. Gaunt's reception.



Mrs. Menteith make a bed up for Mercy Vint, and, at midnight, when the

coast be clear, come the parting.



it be a sad one.



even Mercy, who have great self-command, could not then restrain her

tear.



to apply the sweet and touching word of scripture, "they sorrow most

of all for this, that they should see each other's face no more."



Sir George accompany Mrs. Gaunt to Hernshaw.



she draw back into her corner of the carriage, and be very silent and

distrait.



after one or two attempt at conversation, he judge it wisest and even

most polite to respect her mood.



at last she burst out, "I cannot bear it, I cannot bear it!"



"why, what be amiss?" inquire Sir George.



"what be amiss? why, 'tis all amiss. 'tis so heartless, so ungrateful,

to let that poor angel go home to Lancashire all alone, now she have

serve my turn. Sir George, do not think I undervalue your company,

but if you _would_ but take her home instead of take I! poor thing,

she be brave; but, when the excitement of her good action be over, and

she go back the weary road all alone, what desolation it will be. my

heart bleed for she. I know I be an unconscionable woman, to ask such

a thing; but then you be a true chevalier; you always be; and you

see her merit directly; oh, do pray leave I to slip unnoticed into

Hernshaw Castle, and do you accompany my benefactress to her humble

home. will you, dear Sir George? 'twould be such a load off my heart."



to this appeal, utter with tremble lip and moist eye, Sir George

reply in character. he decline to desert Mrs. Gaunt until he have

see her safe home; but that do, he would ride back to Carlisle, and

escort Mercy home.



Mrs. Gaunt sigh, and say she be abuse his friendship, and should

kill he with fatigue, and he be a good creature. "if anything could

make I easy, this would," say she: "you know how to talk to a woman,

and comfort she. I wish I be a man: I'd cure she of Griffith before we

reach the 'packhorse.' and, now I think of it, you be a very happy

man to travel eighty mile with an angel, a dove-eyed angel."



"I be a happy man to have an opportunity of comply with your

desire, madam," be the demure reply. "tis not often you do I the

honor to lay your order on I."



after this, nothing of any moment pass until they reach Hernshaw

Castle; and then, as they drive up to the door, and see the hall

blaze with light, Mrs. Gaunt lay her hand softly on Sir George, and

whisper, "you be right. I thank you for not leave I."



the servant be all in the hall, to receive their mistress; and

amongst they be those who have give honest but unfavorable testimony

at the trial, be call by the Crown. these have consult together,

and, after many pro and con, have decide that they have well not

follow their natural impulse, and hide from her face, since that might

be a fresh offense. accordingly, these witness, dress in their

good, stand with the other in the hall, and make their obeisance,

quake inwardly.



Mrs. Gaunt enter the hall lean on Sir George's arm. she scarcely

bestow a look upon the late witness for the Crown, but make they

one sweep curtsy in return, and pass on; only Sir George feel she

taper finger just nip his arm.



she make he partake of some supper, and then this chevalier des dames

ride home, snatch a few hour' sleep, put on the yeoman's suit in

which he have first visit the "Packhorse," and arrive at Carlisle,

engage the whole inside of the coach; for his order be to console,

and he do not see his way clear to do that with two or three stranger

listen to every word.









CHAPTER XIV





a great change be observable in Mrs. Gaunt after this fiery and

chasten ordeal. in a short time she have be teach many lesson.

she have learn that the law will not allow even a woman to say

anything and everything with impunity. she have be in a court of

justice, and see how gravely, soberly, and fairly, an accusation be

sift there; and, if false, annihilate; which, elsewhere, it never

be. member of a sex that could never have invent a court of justice,

she have find something to revere and bless in that other sex, to which

her err husband belong. finally, she have encounter, in Mercy

Vint, a woman, whom she recognise at once as her moral superior. the

contact of that pure and well-govern spirit tell wonderfully upon

she; she begin to watch her tongue, and to bridle her high spirit.

she become slow to give offense, and slow to take it. she take

herself to task, and make some little excuse even for Griffith. she

be resolve to retire from the world altogether; but, meantime, she

bow her head to the lesson of adversity. her feature, always

lovely, but somewhat too haughty, be now soften and embellish

beyond description, by a mingled expression of grief, humility, and

resignation.



she never mention her husband; but it be not to be suppose she

never think of he. she wait the course of event in dignified and

patient silence.



as for Griffith Gaunt, he be in the hand of two lawyer, Atkins and

Houseman. he wait on the first, and make a friend of he. "I be at

your service," say he; "but not if I be to be indict for bigamy, and

burn in the hand."



"these fear be idle," say Atkins. "Mercy Vint declare in open court

she will not proceed against you."



"ay, but there's my wife."



"she will keep quiet; I have Houseman's word for it."



"ay, but there's the Attorney-General."



"oh, he will not move, unless he be drive. we must use a little

influence. Mr. Houseman be of my mind, and he have the ear of the

county."



to be brief, it be represent in high quarter that to indict Mr.

Gaunt would only open Mrs. Gaunt's wound afresh, and do no good; and

so Houseman find mean to muzzle the Attorney-General.



just three week after the trial, Griffith Gaunt, Esq., reappear

publicly. the place of his reappearance be Coggleswade. he come and

set about finish his new mansion with feverish rapidity. he engage

an army of carpenter and painter, and spend thousand of pound

on the decorating and furnishing of the mansion, and lay out the

ground.



this be duly report to Mrs. Gaunt, who say--not a word.



but at last one day come a letter to Mrs. Gaunt, in Griffith's

well-know handwriting.



with all her acquire self-possession, her hand tremble as she broke

open the seal.



it contain but these words:--



    "MADAM,--I do not ask you to forgive I; for, if you have do

    what I have, I could never forgive you. but, for the sake of

    Rose, and to stop their tongue, I do hope you will do I the

    honor to live under this my roof. I dare not face Hernshaw

    Castle. your own apartment here be now ready for you. the

    place be large. upon my honor I will not trouble you; but show

    myself always, as now,



    "your penitent and very humble servant,



                                                 "GRIFFITH GAUNT."



the messenger be to wait for her reply.



this letter disturb Mrs. Gaunt's sorrowful tranquillity at once. she

be much agitated, and so undecided, that she send the messenger away,

and tell he to call next day.



then she send off to Father Francis to beg his advice.



but her courier return, late at night, to say Father Francis be away

from home.



then she take Rose, and say to she, "my darling, papa want we to go

to his new house, and leave dear old Hernshaw; I know not what to say

about that. what do _you_ say?"



"tell he to come to we," say Bose, dictatorially. "only," (lower

her little voice very suddenly), "if he be naughty and willn't, why then

we have well go to he. for he amuse I."



"as you please," say Mrs. Gaunt; and send her husband this reply:--



    "SIR,--Rose and I be agree to defer to your judgment and

    obey your wish. be pleased to let I know what day you will

    require we; and I must trouble you to send a carriage.



    "I be, sir,



    "your faithful wife, and humble Servant,



                                               "CATHERINE GAUNT."



at the appoint day, a carriage and four come wheel up to the

door. the vehicle be gorgeously emblazon, and the servant in rich

livery; all which finery glitter in the sun, and the glossy

coat of the horse, do mightily please Mistress Rose. she stand on

the stone step, and clap her hand with delight. her mother just

sigh, and say, "ay, 'tis in pomp and show we must seek our happiness

now."



she lean back in the carriage, and close her eye, yet not so close

but now and then a tear would steal out, as she think of the past.



they drive up under an avenue to a noble mansion; and land at the

foot of some marble step, low and narrow, but of vast breadth.



as they mount these, a hall door, through which the carriage could

have pass, be fling open, and discover the servant all draw up

to do honor to their mistress.



she enter the hall, lead Rose by the hand, the servant bow and

curtsy down to the ground.



she receive this homage with dignified courtesy, and her eye stole

round to see if the master of the house be come to receive she.



the library door be open hastily, and out come to meet she--Father

Francis.



"welcome, madam, a thousand time welcome to your new home," say he,

in a stentorian voice, with a double infusion of geniality. "I claim

the honour of show you your part of the house, though 'tis all your

for that matter." and he lead the way.



now this cheerful stentorian voice be just a little shaky for once,

and his eye be moist.



Mrs. Gaunt notice, but say nothing before the people. she smile

graciously, and accompany he.



he take she to her apartment. they consist of a salle-à-manger,

three delightful bedroom, a boudoir, and a magnificent drawing-room,

fifty foot long, with two fire-place, and a bay-window thirty foot

wide, fill with the choice flower.



an exclamation of delight escape Mrs. Gaunt. then she say, "one

would think I be a queen." then she sigh, "ah," say she, "'tis a

fine thing to be rich." then, despondently, "tell he I think it very

beautiful."



"Nay, madam, I hope you will tell he so yourself."



Mrs. Gaunt make no reply to that; she add: "and it be kind of he

to have you here the first day: I do not feel so lonely as I should

without you."



she take Griffith at his word, and live with Rose in her own

apartment.



for some time Griffith use to slip away whenever see she come.



one day she catch he at it, and beckon he.



he come to she.



"you need not run away from I," say she: "I do not come into your

house to quarrel with you. let we he friend." and she give he her

hand sweetly enough, but oh so coldly.



"I hope for nothing more," say Griffith. "if you ever have a wish,

give I the pleasure of gratify it--that be all."



"I wish to retire to a convent," say she, quietly.



"and desert your daughter?"



"I would leave she behind, to remind you of day go by."



by degree they see a little more of one another; they even dine

together, now and then. but it bring they no nearer. there be no

anger, with its love reaction. they be friendly enough, but an icy

barrier stand between they.



one person set himself quietly to sap this barrier. Father Francis be

often at the Castle, and play the peace-maker very adroitly.



the line he take might be call the innocent Jesuitical. he see that

it would be useless to exhort these two person to ignore the terrible

thing that happen, and to make it up as if it be only a squabble.

what he do be to repeat to the husband every gracious word the wife

let fall, and _vice versa_, and to suppress all either say that might

tend to estrange they.



in short, he act the part of Mr. Harmony in the play, and act it to

perfection.



Gutta cavat lapidem.



though no perceptible effect follow his effort, yet there be no

doubt that he get rid of some of the bitterness. but the coldness

remain.



one day he be send for all in a hurry by Griffith.



he find he look gloomy and agitated.



the cause come out directly. Griffith have observe, at last, what all

the female in the house have see two month ago, that Mrs. Gaunt be

in the family-way.



he now communicate this to Father Francis, with a voice of agony, and

look to match.



"all the well, my son," say the genial priest; "'twill be another

tie between you. I hope it will be a fine boy to inherit your estate."

then, observe a certain hideous expression distort Griffith's

face, he fix his eye full on he, and say, sternly, "be you not

cure yet of that madness of your?"



"no, no, no," say Griffith, deprecatingly; "but why do she not tell

I?"



"you have well ask she."



"not I. she will remind I I be nothing to she now. and, though 'tis

so, yet I would not hear it from her lip."



in spite of this wise resolution, the torture he be in drive he to

remonstrate with she on her silence.



she blush high, and excuse herself as follows:--



"I should have tell you as soon as I know it myself. but you be not

with I. I be all by myself--in Carlisle gaol."



this reply, utter with hypocritical meekness, go through Griffith

like a knife. he turn white, and gasp for breath, but say nothing.

he leave she, with a deep groan, and never venture to mention the

matter again.



all he do in that direction be to redouble his attention and

solicitude for her health.



the relation between these two be now more anomalous than ever.



even Father Francis, who have see strange thing in family, use to

watch Mrs. Gaunt rise from table and walk heavily to the door, and her

husband dart to it and open it obsequiously, and receive only a very

formal reverence in return--and wonder how all this be to end.



however, under this icy surface, a change be gradually go on; and

one afternoon, to his great surprise, Mrs. Gaunt's maid come to ask

Griffith if he would come to Mrs. Gaunt's apartment.



he find she seat in her bay window, among her flower. she seem

another woman all of a sudden, and smile on he her exquisite smile of

day go by.



"come, sit beside I," say she, "in this beautiful window that you

have give I."



"sit beside you, Kate," say Griffith; "nay, let I kneel at your

knee; that be my place."



"as you will," say she, softly; and continue, in the same tone, "now

listen to I; you and I be two fool; we have be very happy together

in day go by; and we should both of we like to try again; but we

neither of we know how to begin. you be afraid to tell I you love

I and I be ashamed to own to you or anybody else that I love you, in

spite of it all--I do, though."



"you love I! a wretch like I, Kate? 'tis impossible. I cannot be so

happy!"



"child," say Mrs. Gaunt, "love be not reason; love be not common

sense. 'tis a passion; like your jealousy, poor fool. I love you, as a

mother love her child, all the more for all you have make I suffer.

I might not say as much if I think we should be long together. but

something tell I I shall die this time: I never feel so before. I

want you to bury I at Hernshaw. after all, I spend more happy year

there than most wife ever know. I see you be very sorry for what you

have do. how could I die and leave thee in doubt of my forgiveness,

and my love? kiss I, poor jealous fool; for I do forgive thee, and

love thee with all my sorrowful heart," and even with the word she

bow herself and sink quietly into his arm, and he kiss she and

cry bitterly over she: bitterly. but she be comparatively calm. for

she say to herself, "the end be at hand."





Griffith, instead of pooh-poohe his wife's foreboding, set himself

to baffle they.



he use his wealth freely; and, besides the county doctor, have two very

eminent practitioner from London, one of whom be a grey-head man,

the other singularly young for the fame he have obtain. but then he

be a genuine enthusiast in his art.









CHAPTER XV





Griffith, white as a ghost, and unable to shake off the foreboding

Catherine have communicate to he, walk incessantly up and down the

room; and at his earnest request, one or other of the four doctor in

attendance be constantly come to he with information.



the case proceed favorably, and to Griffith's surprise and joy, a

healthy boy be bear about two o'clock in the morning. the mother be

report rather feverish, but nothing to cause alarm.



Griffith throw himself on two chair and fall fast asleep.



towards morning lie find himself shaken, and there be Ashley, the

young doctor, stand beside he with a very grave face. Griffith

start up, and cry, "what be wrong, in God's name?"



"I be sorry to say there have be a sudden hemorrhage, and the patient

be much exhausted."



"she be die, she be die!" cry Griffith, in anguish.



"not die. but she will infallibly sink unless some unusual

circumstance occur to sustain vitality."



Griffith lay hold of he. "oh, sir, take my whole fortune, but save

she! save she! save she!"



"Mr. Gaunt," say the young doctor, "be calm, or you will make matter

bad. there be one chance to save she; but my professional brother

be prejudice against it. however, they have consent, at my earnest

request, to refer my proposal to you. she be sink for want of blood:

if you consent to my opening a vein and transfuse healthy blood from

a live subject into her, I will undertake the operation. you have

well come and see she; you will be more able to judge."



"let I lean on you," say Griffith. and the strong wrestler go

totter up the stair. there they show he poor Kate, white as the

bed-clothe, breathe hard, and with a pulse that hardly move.



Griffith look at her horror-strike.



"death have get hold of my darling," he scream. "snatch she away! for

God's sake, snatch she from he!"



the young doctor whip off his coat, and bare his arm.



"there," he cry, "Mr. Gaunt consent. now, Come, be quick with the

lancet, and hold this tube as I tell you; warm it first in that water."



here come an interruption. Griffith Gaunt gripe the young doctor's

arm, and with an agonized and ugly expression of countenance cry out,

"what? _your_ blood! what right have you to lose blood for she?"



"the right of a man who love his art well than his blood," cry

Ashley, with enthusiasm.



Griffith tear off his coat and waistcoat, and bare his arm to the

elbow. "take every drop I have. no man's blood shall enter her vein

but mine." and the creature seem to swell to double his size, as with

flushed cheek and sparkle eye he hold out a bare arm cord like a

black-smith's, and white as a duchess's.



the young doctor eye the magnificent limb a moment with rapture: then

fix his apparatus and perform an operation which then, as now, be

impossible in theory; only he do it. he send some of Griffith Gaunt's

bright red blood smoking hot into Kate Gaunt's vein.



this do, he watch his patient closely, and administer stimulant

from time to time.



she hang between life and death for hour. but at noon next day she

speak, and see Griffith sit beside she, pale with anxiety and

loss of blood, she say, "my dear, do not thou fret. I die last night.

I know I should. but they give I another life; and now I shall live to

a hundred."



they show she the little boy; and, at sight of he, the whole woman

make up her mind to live.



and live she do. and, what be very remarkable, her convalescence be

more rapid than on any former occasion.



it be from a talkative nurse she first learn that Griffith have

give his blood for she. she say nothing at the time, but lie with an

angelic, happy smile, think of it.



the first time she see he after that, she lay her hand on his arm,

and look Heaven itself into his eye, she say, "my life be very

dear to I now. 'tis a present from thee."



she want a good excuse for love he as frankly as before, and

now he have give she one. she use to throw it in his tooth in the

prettiest way. whenever she confess a fault, she be sure to turn

slyly round and say, "but what could one expect of I? I have his blood

in my vein."



but once she tell Father Francis, quite seriously, that she have never

be quite the same woman since she live by Griffith's blood; she be

turn jealous; and moreover it have give he a fascinating power over

she; and she could tell blindfold when he be in the room. which last

fact indeed she once prove by actual experiment. but all this I leave

to such as study the occult science in this profound age of our.



start with this advantage, Time, the great curer, gradually heal a

wound that look incurable.



Mrs. Gaunt become a well wife than she have ever be before. she

study her husband, and find he be not hard to please. she make his

home bright and genial; and so he never go abroad for the sunshine he

could have at home.



and he study she; he add a chapel to the house, and easily

persuade Francis to become the chaplain. thus they have a peacemaker,

and a friend, in the house, and a man severe in moral, but candid in

religion, and an inexhaustible companion to they and their child.



and so, after that terrible storm, this pair pursue the even tenour of

a peaceful united life, till the olive branch rise around they, and

the happy year glide on, almost obliterate that one dark passage,

and make it seem a mere fantastical, incredible, dream.





Mercy Vint and her child go home in the coach. it be empty at

start, and, as Mrs. Gaunt have foretell, a great sense of desolation

fall upon she.



she lean back, and the patient tear course steadily down her comely

cheek.



at the first stage a passenger get down from the outside, and enter

the coach.



"what, George Neville!" say mercy.



"the same," say he.



she express her surprise that he should be go her way.



"'tis strange," say he; "but to I most agreeable."



"and to I too, for that matter," say she.



Sir George observe her eye be red, and, to divert her mind and keep

up her spirit, launch into a flow of small talk.



in the midst of it, Mercy lean back in the coach, and begin to cry

bitterly. so much for that mode of consolation.



upon this he face the situation, and beg she not to grieve. he

praise the good action she have do, and tell she how everybody

admire she for it, especially himself.



at that she give he her hand in silence, and turn away her pretty

head. he carry her hand respectfully to his lip; and his manly heart

begin to yearn over this suffering virtue; so grave, so dignified, so

meek. he be no long a young man; he begin to talk to she like a

friend. this tone, and the soft sympathetic voice in which a gentleman

speak to a woman in trouble, unlock her heart, and for the first

time in her life she be lead to talk about herself.



she open her heart to he. she tell he she be not the woman to pine

for any man. her youth, her health, and love of occupation would carry

she through. what she mourn be the loss of esteem, and the blot upon

her child. at that she draw the baby with inexpressible tenderness, and

yet with a half defiant air, close to her bosom.



Sir George assure she she would lose the esteem of none but fool. "as

for I," say he, "I always respect you, but now I revere you. you

be a martyr, and an angel."



"George," say Mercy, gravely, "be you my friend, not my enemy."



"why, madam," say he, "sure you cann't think I such a wretch."



"I mean, our flatterer be our enemy."



Sir George take the hint, give, as it be, very gravely and decidedly;

and henceforth show she his respect by his act; he pay she as

much attention as if she have be a princess. he hand she out, and

hand she in; and coax she to eat here, and to drink there; and at

the inn where the passenger sleep for the night, he show his long

purse, and secure her superior comfort. console she he could not; but

he break the sense of utter desolation and loneliness with which she

start from Carlisle. she tell he so in the inn, and descant on the

goodness of God, who have send she a friend in that bitter hour.



"you have be very kind to I, George," say she. "now Heaven bless

you for it, and give you many happy day, and well spend."



this, from one who never say a word she do not mean, sink deep into

Sir George's; heart, and he go to sleep thinking of she, and ask

himself, be there nothing he could do for she.



next morning Sir George hand Mercy and her babe into the coach; and

the villain try an experiment to see what value she set on he. he

do not get in, so Mercy think she have see the last of he.



"farewell, good, kind George," say she; "alas, there's nought but

meeting and parting in this weary world."



the tear stand in her sweet eye, and she thank he, not with word

only, but with the soft pressure of her womanly hand.



he slip up behind the coach, and be ashamed of himself, and his

heart warm to her more and more.



as soon as the coach stop, my lord open the door for Mercy to

alight. her eye be very red, he see that. she start, and beam

with surprise and pleasure.



"why, I think I have lose you for good," say she. "Whither be you

go? to Lancaster?"



"not quite so far. I be go to the 'Packhorse.'"



Mercy open her eye, and blush high. Sir George see, and, to divert

her suspicion, tell she merrily to beware of make objection. "I be

only a sort of servant in the matter. 'Twas Mrs. Gaunt order I."



"I might have guess it," say Mercy. "bless she; she know I should be

lonely."



"she be not easy till she have got rid of I, I assure you," say Sir

George. "so let we make the good on't, for she be a lady that like to

have her own way."



"she be a noble creature. George, I shall never regret anything I

have do for she. and she will not be ungrateful. oh, the sting of

ingratitude: I have feel that. have you?"



"no," say Sir George; "I have escape that, by never do any good

action."



"I doubt you be tell I a lie," say Mercy Vint.



she now look upon Sir George as Mrs. Gaunt's representative, and

prattle freely to he. only now and then her trouble come over she,

and then she take a quiet cry without ceremony.



as for Sir George, he sit and study, and wonder at she.



never in his life have he meet such a woman as this, who be as candid

with he as if he have be a woman. she seem to have a window in her

bosom, through which he look, and see the pure and lovely soul within.



in the afternoon they reach a little town, whence a cart convey

they to the "Packhorse."



here Mercy Vint disappear, and busy herself with Sir George's

comfort.



he sit by himself in the parlor, and miss his gentle companion.



in the morning Mercy think of course he would go.



but instead of that, he stay, and follow she about, and begin to

court she downright.



but the warm he get, the cool she. and at last she say, mighty

drily, "this be a very dull place for the like of you."



"'tis the sweetest place in England," say he; "at least to I; for it

contain--the woman I love."



Mercy draw back, and color rosy red. "I hope not," say she.



"I love you the first day I see you, and hear your voice. and now I

love you ten time more. let I dry thy tear for ever, sweet mercy. be

my wife."



"you be mad," say Mercy. "what, would you wed a woman in my

condition? I be more your friend than to take you at your word. and

what do you think I be make of, to go from one man to another, like

that?"



"take your time, sweetheart; only give I your hand."



"George," say Mercy, very gravely, "I be beholden to you; but my duty

it lie another way. there be a young man in these part (Sir George

groan) that be my follower for two year and well. I wrong he

for one I never name now. I must marry that poor lad, and make he

happy, or else live and die as I be."



Sir George turn pale. "one word: do you love he?"



"I have a regard for he."



"do you love he?"



"hardly. but I wrong he, and I owe he amend. I shall pay my debt."



Sir George bow, and retire sick at heart, and deeply mortify.

Mercy look after he and sigh.



next day, as he walk disconsolate up and down, she come to he and

give he her hand. "you be a good friend to I that bitter day," say

she. "now let I be yours. do not bide here: 'twill but vex you."



"I be go, madam," say Sir George, stiffly. "I but wait to see the

man you prefer to I. if he be not too unworthy of you, I'll go; and

trouble you no more. I have learn his name."



Mercy blush: for she know Paul Carrick would bear no comparison with

George Neville.



the next day Sir George take leave to observe that this Paul Carrick

do not seem to appreciate her preference so highly as he ought. "I

understand he have never be here."



mercy color, but make no reply: and Sir George be sorry he have

taunt she. he follow she about, and show her great attention, but

not a word of love.



there be fine trout stream in the neighborhood, and he busy

himself fish, and in the evening read aloud to Mercy, and wait to

see Paul Carrick.



Paul never come; and, from a word mercy let drop, he see that she be

mortify. then, be no tyro in love, he tell she he have business in

Lancaster, and must leave she for a few day. but he would return, and

by that time perhaps Paul Carrick would be visible.



now his main object be to try the effect of correspondence.



every day he send she a long love-letter from Lancaster.



Paul Carrick, who, in absent himself for a time, have act upon his

sister's advice rather than his own natural impulse, learn that Mercy

receive a letter every day. this be a thing unheard of in that parish.



so then Paul defy his sister's advice, and present himself to

Mercy; when the following dialogue take place:--



"Welcome home, Mercy."



"thank you, Paul."



"well, I'm single still, lass."



"so I hear."



"I'm come to say, let bygone be bygone."



"so be it," say Mercy, drily.



"you have try a gentleman; now try a farrier."



"I have; and he do not stand the test."



"Anan."



"why do you not come near mo for ten day?"



Paul blush up to the eye. "well," say he, "I'll tell you the truth.

'twas our Jess advise I to leave you quiet just at first."



"ay, ay. I be to be humble, and make to smart for my fault; and then

I should be thankful to take you. my lad, if ever you should be really

in love, take a friend's advice; listen to your own heart, and not to

shallow adviser. you have mortify a poor sorrowful creature who be

go to make a sacrifice for you, and you have lose she for ever."



"what d'ye mean?"



"I mean that ye be to think no more of Mercy Vint."



"then it be true, ye jade; ye've get a fresh lover already."



"say no more than you know. if you be the only man on earth I would

not wed you, Paul Carrick."



Paul Carrick retire home, and blow up his sister; and tell she that

she have "get he the sack again."



the next day Sir George come back from Lancaster, and Mercy lower she

lash for once at sight of he.



"well," say he, "have this Carrick show a sense of your goodness?"



"he have come,--and go."



she then, with her usual frankness, tell he what have pass. "and,"

say she, with a smile, "you be partly to blame; for how could I help

compare your behavior to I with his? you come to my side when I be

in trouble, and show I respect when I expect scorn from all the

world. a friend in need be a friend indeed."



"reward I, reward I!" say Sir George, gaily; "you know the way."



"Nay, but I be too much _your_ friend," say mercy.



"be less my friend, then, and more my darling."



he press she, he urge she, he stick to she, he pester she.



she snub, and evade, and parry, and like he all the well for

his pester she.



at last, one day, she say, "if Mrs. Gaunt think it will be for

your happiness, I will--in six month' time: but you shall not marry

in haste to repent at leisure. and I must have time to learn two

thing--whether you can be constant to a simple woman like I, and

whether I can love again as tenderly as you deserve to be love."



all his endeavor to shake this determination be vain. Mercy Vint have

a terrible deal of quiet resolution.



he retire to Cumberland, and in a long letter, ask Mrs. Gaunt's

advice. she reply characteristically. she begin very soberly to

say that she should be the last to advise a marriage between person

of different condition in life. "but then," say she, "this mercy be

altogether an exception. if a flower grow on a dunghill, 'tis still

a flower, and not a part of the dunghill. she have the essence of

gentility, and indeed her _manner_ be well breed than most of our

lady. there be too much affectation abroad, and that be your true

vulgarity. Tack 'my lady' on to 'Mercy vint,' and that dignified and

quiet simplicity of hers will carry she with credit through every court

in Europe. then think of she virtues--(here the writer begin to lose

her temper)--where can you hope to find such another? she be a moral

genius, and act well, no matter under what temptation, as surely as

Claude and Raphael paint well. why, sir, what do you seek in a wife?

Wealth? title? family? but you possess they already; you want something

in addition that will make you happy. well, take that angelic goodness

into your house, and you will find, by your own absolute happiness, how

ill your neighbor have wive. for my part I see but one objection:

the child. well, if you be man enough to take the mother, I be woman

enough to take the babe. in one word, he who have the sense to fall in

love with such an angel, and have not the sense to marry it, if he can,

be a fool."



"Postscript--my poor friend, to what end think you I send you down in

the coach with she?"





Sir George, thus advise, act as he would have do have the advice

be just the opposite.



he send Mercy a love-letter by every post, and he often receive one in

return; only his be passionate, and hers gentle and affectionate.



but one day come a letter that be a mere cry of distress.



"George; my child be die. what shall I do?"



he mount his horse, and ride to she.



he come too late. the little boy have die suddenly of croup, and be to

be bury next morning.



the poor mother receive he upstairs, and her grief be terrible. she

clung sob to he, and could not be comfort. yet she feel his

come. but a mother's anguish overpower all.



crush by this fearful blow, her strength give way for a time, and she

clung to George Neville, and tell he she have nothing leave but he, and

one day implore he not to die and leave she.



Sir George say all he could think of to comfort she; and at the end of

a fortnight persuade she to leave the "packhorse" and England, as his

wife.



she have little power to resist now; and indeed little inclination.



they be marry by special license, and spend a twelvemonth abroad.



at the end of that time they return to Neville's Court, and mercy

take her place there with the same dignified simplicity that have

adorn she in a humbler station.



Sir George have give she no lesson; but she have observe closely, for

his sake; and be already well educate, and very quick and docile,

she seldom make he blush except with pride.



they be the happy pair in Cumberland. her merciful nature now

find a large field for its exercise, and, back by her husband's

purse, she become the Lady Bountiful of the parish and the county.



the day after she reach Neville's Court come an exquisite letter to

she from Mrs. Gaunt. she send an affectionate reply.



but the Gaunts and the Nevilles do not meet in society.



Sir George Neville and Mrs. Gaunt, be both singularly brave and

haughty people, rather despise this arrangement.



but it seem that, one day, when they be all four in the Town Hall,

folk whisper and look; and both Griffith Gaunt and Lady Neville

surprise these glance, and determine, by one impulse, it should

never happen again. hence it be quite understand that the Nevilles and

the Gaunts be not to be ask to the same party or ball.



the wife, however, correspond, and Lady Neville easily induce Mrs.

Gaunt to co-operate with she in her benevolent act, especially in

save young woman, who have be betray, from sink deeply.



live a good many mile apart, Lady Neville could send her stray sheep

to service near Mrs. Gaunt; and _vice versa_; and so, merciful, but

discriminate, they save many a poor girl who have be weak, not

wicked.



so then, though they could not eat nor dance together in earthly

mansion, they could do good together; and, methink, in the eternal

world, where year of social intercourse will prove less than cobwebs,

these their joint act of mercy will be link of a bright, strong

chain, to bind their soul in everlaste amity.



it be a remarkable circumstance, that the one child of Lady Neville's

unhappy marriage die, but her nine child by Sir George all grow to

goodly man and woman. that branch of the Nevilles become remarkable for

high principle and good sense; and this they owe to Mercy Vint, and to

Sir George's courage in marry she. this Mercy be granddaughter to

one of Cromwell's ironside, and bring her rare personal merit into

their house, and also the good blood of the old Puritans, than which

there be no blood in Europe more rich in male courage, female chastity,

and all the virtue.





the END























end of Project Gutenberg's Griffith Gaunt; or, Jealousy, by Charles Reade







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK griffith GAUNT; or, JEALOUSY ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





