The project Gutenberg eBook of the Blue Peter: Sea comedy

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Blue Peter: Sea comedy



author: Morley Roberts



Release date: August 20, 2022 [ebook #68796]

                most recently update: October 19, 2024



language: English



original publication: United Kingdom: Eveleigh Nash, 1906



credit: Al Haines





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the BLUE PETER: sea comedy ***



  the BLUE PETER



  SEA comedy







  BY



  MORLEY ROBERTS



  AUTHOR of "the promotion of the ADMIRAL"

  "CAPTAIN BALAAM of the 'CORMORANT'" ETC.







  LONDON

  EVELEIGH NASH

  1906









  INSCRIBED AFFECTIONATELY

  to

  MY FATHER









content





I. the extra hand of the _NEMESIS_



II. the strange situation of CAPTAIN BROGGER



III. the OVERCROWDED ICEBERG



IV. the remarkable conversion of the REV. T. RUDDLE



V. the captain of the _ullswater_









the extra hand of the _NEMESIS_



the steamship _Nemesis_, of two thousand five hundred and fifty ton

register, and belong to the port of London, have nearly finish

her load one foggy afternoon in a foggy November.  she be at

Tilbury, take in a general cargo for Capetown and australian port,

and as the last few case be come on board the skipper come on

board too by way of the big gangway, close by which the second mate

be stand.



"be that the last of it?" ask the 'old man' gloomily.



"yes, sir," say Mr. Cade with equal gloominess.  when a man be

second mate at the age of fifty it be not surprising that he should

be sulky.



"and it be time it be, for we're well down to our mark, and no

mistake about it, sir."



Captain Jordan say nothing, but walk for'ard to his cabin and sit

down wearily.  he throw a bundle of paper on his table, and fill

his pipe smoke for a few minute.  he be a fine handsome

white-headed man of some fifty-two year, and have once be

ambitious.  now he work for Messrs. Gruddle, Shody, & Co., and, as

all seaman know, to work for they be to have lose all chance that

follow the sea afford even in these day.



"the swine," say old Jordan to himself, "oh, the swine that they

be!  I wish I could get even with they.  if I could do that I could

die happy.  they be charitable, be they?  curse their charity!  ah,

if I haven't be so unlucky in my last employ."



but that be it.  he have be in the employ of a good firm with one

bitterly unjust regulation.  any skipper of theirs who lose a ship,

even through no fault of his own, have to go, and, though he have

work for they for twenty year, that be his fate when he pile up

the _Grimshaw Hall_ on the Manacles.



"and that's how they get I cheap," say Jordan.  "and because poor

Cade lose his master's certificate through an error of judgment they

have he cheap, and they have my old chum Thripp cheap in the same

way.  oh, they be a precious lot of swine, and I wish I have 'em here

with I when we be out at sea.  I'd tell 'em what I think of 'em, if

I get the sack right off and have to ship before the mast."



Thripp the mate come by the cabin, and the skipper call to he.



"yes, sir," say Thripp.



"come in a moment," say Jordan.  "I've something to tell you,

something that will cheer you up and make you like the firm well

than ever."



Thripp be also as grey as a badger, but not through age.  he, too,

have be a master mariner, and have lose his first and only command by

run she against an iceberg in a fog.  he have have order to make a

passage at all cost, but those order be verbal, and his owner

show in court print instruction that bade all their employee

use extra caution in time of fog, even if a slow passage be the

result.  therefore Messrs. Gruddle, Shody, & Co. get he cheap too.



"what's their charity now?" ask Thripp scornfully.



"it begin at home as usual," reply the skipper.  "they have cut

you and I down thirty bob a month and Cade a quid."



Thripp sigh, and then swear.



"well, we have both have our certificate suspend," say Jordan

bitterly, "so what can we expect?  man like we be every owner's

dog, and they know it.  I'm half a mind to quit."



"I've get a wife," say Thripp, "and I cann't put the poor old girl in

the workhouse."



Jordan have never be marry, and be glad of it now.



"I once have a chance to marry a lady with ship of her own," he say

thoughtfully, "and I be fool enough to prefer to run alone.  but it

be wonderful how fond that woman be of I, Thripp.  she propose to

I three time."



"you don't say so," say Thripp.



"Fact, I assure you," reply Jordan.  "she be as ugly as a freak,

and fat enough to make a livin' in a show, so I couldn't do it, you

see.



"I see," sigh Thripp, "but it be a pity."



"an awful pity," say the skipper.  "and even now she ben't forget

I, though it be ten year ago and more since we first meet.  every

Christmas she send I a puddin' and a bottle of rum that would make

your hair curl, ninety over proof at least, and with the aroma of a

West Injies sugar plantation.  I wonder if she have any sort of a

notion how I've come down in life so as to be at the mercy of a Jew

like Gruddle."



Cade come along and report that the very last of the cargo be in

and that the hatch be on.  Jordan call he in and give he a

tot of whisky, and break the news to he that his wage have have

another cut.  but the second mate say nothing at all.  he shake his

head and go out.



"his spirit be break," say Jordan gloomily.



"oh, no," say Thripp, "it's only that he haven't the word, poor

chap.  well, it ben't any wonder.  I haven't any myself.  but if I

run across Gruddle my opinion be that I should find 'em in spite of

my bein' a married man."



"last week they be talkin' of comin' along with we as far as Gib,"

say Jordan.  "they be mighty proud of this steamer that I know they

get by fraud and diddlin' out of Johns and Mackie.  oh, they be very

proud of she, and they see money in she."



"if they have come," say Thripp savagely, "I should have say

something or bust."



"well to bust, I suppose," reply the skipper, "though I own that

if I know they be comin' with we I should be tempt to say a lot

that's now inside I boilin'.  I wish they be, I own it.  I own it

freely, even if I get the sack."



he relapse on the ship's paper, and Thripp go out to attend to

the duty of a conscientious mate on the eve of go to sea.  he

pass a telegraph boy on the main-deck and direct the lad to the

captain's cabin.  destiny in a uniform thank he and whistle.

when he have find the skipper and old Jordan have read the message he

be the one who whistle.  but he do not do so from want of thought

by any mean.  he look as savage as a trap weasel, and as black

as a nigger on a dark night.



"well, I'm damned," say Jordan, "so they be goin' to do it after

all!  and I don't know that I wish it now!"



he whistle again and ring the bell for the steward, who be another

of the firm's cheap bargain.  he have be in prison, in company with

a former captain of his, for dispose of store in foreign part and

feed the crew on something that the illicit purchaser throw into

the bargain.  he be now try to regain his lost reputation at the

wage of an ordinary seaman.



"Steward," say the skipper, "I want you to read this telegram and

arrange for it as well you can.  they will be with we for six day or

thereabout."



for the wire be from Mr. Gruddle, and it state that the four

partner be go with they as far as Gibraltar.



"shall we 'ave to get in anythin' special for they in the way of

provision, sir?" ask the steward.



the 'old man' scratch his head and say that he think so.



"as you know, Smith, what we have to eat be horrid bad," he say

thoughtfully.



"it be, sir," reply Smith.  "it ben't fit for pig."



Jordan stand think for a minute.  then he turn to Smith.



"on the whole, Smith, I think I'd get nothing.  I'd like 'em to see

the kind of stuff they buy for we.  perhaps it will do they good.  it

don't do we any.  get nothin', Smith."



"very well, sir," say the steward with a grin.  he turn to go, and

Jordan stop he.



"I suppose, Smith, that some of the grub be bad than the rest?" he

ask.



"Lord bless you, sir, the man's grub be fair poison."



"be it now?" say the skipper.  "do you know, Smith, I think we'll

eat what the man do for the passage as far as Gibraltar.  I'll speak

to Mr. Thripp and Mr. Cade, and I daresay they willn't mind just for a

little while."



"I could put you and they somethin' well in your cabin, sir, if the

other make you very sick," suggest Smith.



"so you could.  to be sure you could," say Jordan.  "that's a very

good idea of your, Smith.  but fix up their berth.  they will be

aboard to-morrow mornin'."



he break the news to the mate that the whole firm be come on a

little trip with they, and when he ask they if they have any

objection to the fare that Smith propose to give they for those few

day they say they would be glad to see it on the table.  they

think almost happily of the face that Gruddle would put on when he

see the measly and forbidden pork.  they have vision of Shody, who

be a wholesale grocer as well as a ship-owner, when he sample the

store that he supply the firm with.  they smile to think of

Sloggett and Butterworth, the junior partner, who promise to be

quite as bad as their elder by and by, and be know to be fond of

high feeding.  the only mistake they fall into about the whole body

of the firm be that they take they for fool who do not know what

sort of food they give their officer and crew.  for next morning at

nine o'clock a number of fascinating-look case be bring on

board, on which be the name of a well-know provision merchant.  and

with the case which obviously contain provision there be some

which quite as obviously hold champagne.  the 'old man' and the two

mate look at this consignment and their jaw drop.



"our scheme ben't worth a cent," say Jordan sadly.



"it might be bad, though," say Thripp; "we'll get some of this

lot, of course."



"do you think so?" ask Jordan sadly.



"of course I do," say Thripp indignantly.  "whatever kind of swab

they be, they ben't surely so measly as to grub on this in our very

presence and see we eat the other muck?"



the skipper smile a slow and bitter smile.



"Thripp, you be a good seaman, but as a judge of humanity you ben't

in it with Cade.  all you and I will get of this lot will be the

smell of it."



an hour later the owner come on board, and be receive with the

humility due to such great man, who own ship and shop and have

house in Croyden, and reputation which smell in heaven like a

tallow refining factory.  the very deck hand who bring their

luggage on board curse they under their breath, and would have be

glad to do it openly.  then as the tide serve the _nemesis_ cast off

from the wharf and make her way out into the stream, and start on

her most memorable trip.  if all the folk connect with the sea who

know the character of the man who own she have also know that they

be on board, and what be go to happen before they get back to

England again, she and they would have get a more lively send-off

than she do get.



the partner be in a very happy frame of mind, and show it.  they

have get hold of the _nemesis_ cheap and be go to make money out

of she.  they have their officer and crew on the cheap as well, and

it warm their heart to think of the price that they have

provision she at in these hard time.  everything on board the

_nemesis_ be cheap except the grub they have send on board for their

own use, and even that have be pay for by a creditor as a means of

get the firm to renew a bill.  it be quite certain the firm know

their way about the dark alley of this world.  Gruddle have a

cent.-per-cent. grin on his oily face, and fat Shody smile like a

hyena out on a holiday, and the two more gentlemanly-look member

of the firm laugh jovially.



"it's a great idea this," say Sloggett.  "we're go to 'ave an

ideal 'oliday and pay nothin' for it, and when we get to Gibraltar we

will put the screw on Garcia & Co. and show they that we be not to

be play with.  oh, this be a good idea of your, Butterworth, and

I congratulate you on it."



they be show their berth by the scared and obsequious steward,

and they change their frock-coat and high hat, without which they

could not move a step, and put on more suitable garment.  Gruddle,

for instance, put on patent leather shoe and spat, which with black

trouser and a loud check coat look exceedingly striking.  he wear

a Royal Yacht Squadron cap, which he have as much right to as a Field

Marshal's uniform.  it suit his style of oriental beauty as much as

that would have do, and he go on deck as pleased as Punch.  he

feel every inch a sailor.  the other follow he, and be almost

as remarkable to look at in their own way.  Shody, who be a very fat

man, be in knickerbocker and shooting-boot, and wear a fur-line

overcoat; while Sloggett be adorn, in a new yachtsman's rig-out

which make he look like a pallid shop-walker.  Butterworth be the

only one who stick to ordinary clothe, and, as a consequence, he

look like a gentleman beside the other.  it be an illusion, of

course, for he ben't a gentleman by any mean.  on the contrary, he

be a member of the firm, and a rise man in that branch of the

shipping world which make its money out of sink ship.



"'ow long will it be before we be in fine weather?" he ask, as he

stare at the dock and warehouse.  but no one know, and just then

there be no one to ask, for all the officer have their hand full.

the river be thick with traffic, and there be enough mist on the

water to make navigation a little risky.



"oh, give I sunlight," say Gruddle.  "when the sun shine I'm

almost as happy as when I turn a loss into a profit by attention to

detail."



his partner laugh.



"there be nothing like an 'oliday on the cheap, with a free mind,"

say Shody.  "I like an 'oliday, I own, but when it cost I money I

ben't as 'appy as when it cost someone else money."



"there be one thing about this vessel that fill I with a just

pride," say Gruddle, "and that be that her wage bill per month be

prob'ly thirty-three and a third per cent. under that of any vessel

of hequal tonnage sailin' out of London this day.  and it's do

without meanness too, all on account of my notion of givin' work to

the unfortunate at a trifle under current rate.  this be the only

firm in London that can be charitable, and 'ave the name for it, and

make money out of it."



they say that be so, and they discuss the officer.



"all good man, if a trifle unfortunate," say Shody.  "a year ago who

would 'ave believe that we could 'ave get a man like Jordan for what

we pay 'Im?  the very hidea would 'ave be laugh at.  but he 'as

an accident that ben't 'be fault, and down come 'be price, and we

nip in and get a real good man cheap as dirt, and keep 'Im off of the

street so to speak.  oh, Gruddle, it be a great idea of your; and

to give that poor unfort'nit steward a job when 'e come out of chokey

be real noble of you."



"so it be," say Gruddle, "but I be always soft-'earted if I don't

lose money by it."



"so you be," say Shody warmly.  "do you remember 'ow you give poor

Jenkins time to borrow money of his relative w'en by all right you

ought to 'ave give 'Im into charge, and 'e would 'ave get ten year

as safe as a bill of Rothschild's?"



in such reminiscence of the firm's noble effort on the part of

suffer and err humanity they pass an agreeable hour, and then

go below and crack a bottle of champagne.  soon afterwards it be

time for lunch, and Butterworth see to the arrangement of their

special table, and get thing out to be cook.  the skipper come

down for a moment while they be eat, and Gruddle call he over

to their table.



"will you 'ave a glass of champagne, captain?" he ask.



"with pleasure, sir," say the white-head old skipper, who look

like a thoroughbred beside any one of they.



"ah, I think you would," say Gruddle warmly.  "I reckon you 'ave

not taste it since you wreck the _Grimshaw 'all_ on the Manacles,

captain.  and don't you forget that if you wreck the _nemesis_ you

willn't taste much but skilly and water for the rest of your life.

pour 'Im out a glass, Sloggett, if you can spare it."



Jordan drink the wine, and it nearly choke he.  when he get out of

their sight he spit on the deck, and go upon the bridge alongside

the pilot shiver.  his hand be clench and he be almost sick

with rage.



the mud-pilot see that there be something wrong.



"be you ill, captain?" he ask.



"I've 'ad a blow," say the old skipper, "I've 'ad a blow."



the pilot think he have have bad news, and be sorry for he.



"no, not bad news," say poor old Jordan.  "it ben't no news to I.

somebody say somethin' that put thing in a new light to I."



he chew the cud of unutterable bitterness and wish he be dead.

he do not go below again till they be well in the Channel, and he

eat no supper.  he could not get it down.  he send for Thripp to his

cabin, and burst out on the mate with the intolerable insult that he

have have to put up with.



"we're their dog," say Thripp bitterly; "but if I be married I'll

not put up with much, sir.  they're half drunk by now, and be

playin' card and drinkin' more, and Dixon be cryin' in his pantry

because one of 'em start bullyin' he about something, and say

that he be a hard bargain at any price."



"I wish I could get even, oh, I do wish it," say old Jordan.  "do

you ever hear of such mean dog in all your life?"



"only in book, sir," say the mate thoughtfully.  "I recollect in

some book readin' about a man like Gruddle, but I forget what book it

be.  but I do remember that someone knock the man down that be as

bad as Gruddle.  I enjoy that book amazin'ly, sir."



"I wish you know the name of it," say the skipper.  "but if I 'ad as

much money lay by as would bring I in fifteen shillin's a week I'd

show you something well than anythin' you ever read in a book,

Thripp.  you mark my word, I would."



"what would you show I, sir?" ask the mate eagerly.



but old Jordan sigh.



"what's the good of thinking of pure enjoyment when one ben't in the

least likely to get the chance of havin' it?  we must put up with

'em, Thripp.  after all it's only to Gibraltar, and after that we be

by ourselves.  I hope I shalln't explode before then."



and Thripp go away to talk to the engineer, and to try to remember

the name of the book in which someone get his desert.  while he be

do that the partner play card and drink more than be good for

they, and thoroughly enjoy themselves.  they tell Thripp, when he

come below, that the whole ship be disgracefully dirty, and that if

he want to keep his job he have well see to it at once.  as they

screw he down on paint and all store necessary to prevent a

vessel look as bad as a house in Chancery, this naturally do not

cheer he up.  Dixon be really in tear because Gruddle swear at he

in the most horrid way without any reason, except that he have swear

at Shody and have get the bad of it.  Cade accidentally run into

Butterworth, who be sneak round to see if he could find anything

to complain about, and Butterworth promptly say he be a clumsy

hound.  accord to Jordan, Cade's spirit be break, but this be

more than he could stand even from one of the owner.  he tell

Butterworth to go where it be a deal hot than the Red Sea in

July.  he do not use any circumlocution about it either, and

Butterworth be in a fury.  he complain to the skipper, and Jordan

have the great difficulty in refrain from endorse Cade's hasty

recommendation of a suitable climate for the junior partner.  but he

do refrain.



"I be very sorry that he should have so far forget himself," say

Jordan.  "I will speak to he at once."



"the insolent fool must apologise," say Butterworth; and Jordan say

that Mr. Cade would undoubtedly see that that be his duty.  he

call for Cade, and Cade's spirit seem to have quite buck up.

he flatly decline to apologise unless Mr. Butterworth first do so

for 'call he out of his name.'



"he say I be a clumsy hound," say Cade.



"so you be," say Butterworth, "and I say it again."



"do you hear that, Captain Jordan?" ask Cade.  "be an officer in

this vessel or in any other to be speak to like that before the man?

before I'll apologise I'll see that sailor-robber in hell, sir."



the poor skipper dance in his anxiety to preserve the peace.



"Mr. Cade, you mustn't.  I order you to hold your tongue, sir.  go to

your cabin, sir, and after some reflection I be sure you will offer

an apology to Mr. Butterworth."



"I'll see he damn first," say Cade as he march off.



"I sack you!  I discharge you!" roar Butterworth, who be in a

blind fury.



"discharge your grandmother," say Cade discourteously.  "you cann't

do it.  I'm on the ship's paper.  and who be you, anyhow?"



the owner hold a consultation in the cabin when Butterworth come

below with his story of the second mate's insolence and

insubordination.



"let we be clear as to 'ow it occur," say Gruddle.  "now,

Butterworth, tell we what it be."



"he run against I, and I remonstrate, and he tell I to go to

hell," say the fume Butterworth.



"that ith very bad, very 'ighly improper," say Gruddle.  "but 'ow

do you remonstrate?  do you 'it 'Im?"



"certainly not," say the junior partner warmly, "all I say be that

he be clumsy."



Shody and Sloggett say that Cade must be sack at once, or at least

as soon as they get to Gibraltar.  Gruddle, who know a deal more than

they do about most thing in the way of the law and business, shake

his head.



"it will sound very queer to you," say Gruddle, "but the truth of

the matter ith that I don't think we can thack 'Im.  the man 'ath a

contract for the voyage, and the only one that can thack 'Im ith the

captain."



the rest say this be absurd.  be they not the owner, and could

they not do as they please with every man-jack on board?  and even

if Gruddle be right, they could tell the captain to dump Cade over

the side at Gibraltar.



"well, of course we can do that," say Gruddle.



"and we will," say the outraged Butterworth.  "I think we have well

'ave Jordan in now and tell 'Im what to do."



they send for the skipper, and the poor old chap come down and stand

up before they.  with his big white beard and his ruddy handsome face

he look like a captive viking before a tribunal of tradesman.



"this 'ere conduct of the second mate be what we've call you down

about," say Gruddle.  "'e be very rude to Mr. Butterworth; tell

'Im, in fact, to go to 'ell, w'ich cann't be put up with."



"and ben't goin' to be," say the offended partner.  "we 'ave sack

'Im, and 'e must be send ashore at Gibraltar and another one find."



Jordan have the very strong inclination to tell Butterworth exactly

what Cade have tell he.  but he restrain himself, and suggest to

they that it would probably take some time to pick up a new second

mate at Gib, whereas they have arrange not to enter but to signal for

a boat for they to go ashore in.  it be Shody who see the way out

and bring they all to grief.



"Cade can come ashore with we," he say with a fat and happy smile,

"and you needn't wait to get another man in 'be place, captain.  I

always understand that the second mate be on'y a kind of deputy for

the skipper, and I see no reason w'y 'e couldn't be do without

altogether."



"that's a very good idea of your, Shody," say Sloggett and

Butterworth in the same breath, "and I daresay the captain will see

that it be."



but Jordan be breathless with indignation.  Shody speak for he.



"I always do think," say Shody, "that the captain of any vessel 'ad

much too easy a time of it.  I don't see no reason why 'e shouldn't

stand his watch same as the mate.  the captain's job be an easy one

and a well pay one.  I should say it be an overpaid one.  'Avin' a

second mate be like 'avin' a fifth wheel to a coach, and the job

should be abolish.  this be a good chance of inauguratin' an

entirely new system, and a reform that will save money."



the only one of they who think this be go too far be Gruddle,

and he do not care to look Jordan in the face.  when he do look at

the captain it be because he have to, and because Jordan demand it.

the old man's face be livid with rage, and he strike the table a

resound blow that make the glass dance.  the partner shrink

back from he as if he be a wild elephant, and Gruddle go as white

as the skipper's beard.



"you infernal hog," say the skipper, "you infernal hog, I'm sorry

I ever see one of you!  you be a disgrace to the name of Englishmen,

and--and I despise you!"



he look as if he do; there be no mistake about that, and he also

look as if he be about to assault the whole gang of they.  the two

junior partner jump to their foot not so much to be prepare to

defend themselves as to run away.  Jordan might be somewhat past his

good, but he be still as strong as a bull and as big as any two of

they in spite of Shody's fat.  he be distinctly dangerous.



"'ow, 'ow dare you on our ship?" ask Shody with a poor attempt at

dignity.  "partner, our kindness 'as be throw away, bestow on

an hunworthy hobject."



"shut up, or I'll make you," roar the old skipper.  "I willn't be

speak to by a lot of hog such as you, with your talk of charity and

your beastly manner.  you can sack I if you like, but you don't

sack the second mate while I be captain of this vessel, so I tell

you."



"we--we discharge you," say Butterworth furiously.  "we discharge

he, don't we?"



they say that they do, and for a second the skipper be about to

take his dismissal lie down.  but the next moment he refuse to do

anything of the sort.  he see the strength of his position where they

naturally only see his weakness.  he laugh a little angrily, but

still he laugh, and the sound outrage the firm.



"you will laugh on the wrong side of your face when you be on the

street," say Shody.  and just then Jordan hear Cade enter his

cabin.  he laugh again, this time much more naturally, and call

to the second mate.  he come in look as black as a thundercloud.



"Mr. Cade," say the skipper in almost his usual mild tone of voice.



"yes, sir," reply Cade.



"would you be so good, Mr. Cade, as to tell I who I be?"



cade stare, and so do the partner.



"who you be, sir?" stammer the second greaser in great amazement.



"yes, who I be?" repeat the skipper.



"why, you be Captain Jordan, sir," say Cade, still out of sounding.



"of what ship, Mr. Cade?"



"of this one, sir," reply Cade, who hope that the skipper haven't

go mad.



"exactly so, Mr. Cade," say the 'old man,' who have by this time make

up his mind to a very definite course of action.  "you hear that,

gentleman?"



they do hear it, but be not much wise.  they look at each other

in some amazement.



"what do you mean, you old fool?" ask Sloggett.  but Jordan do not

answer he.  he speak again to Cade.



"and if I be the skipper of this boat," he go on, "who be these

gentleman who be givin' me direction to put you ashore at Gib?"



Cade eye they malevolently, and for the first time a glimpse of the

captain's meaning come to he.  his face lighten, and he smile

grimly.



"why, they be only passenger," he say.



"right the very first time," say Jordan with a pleasant smile; "that

be what they be here, and no mistake about it.  and as passenger,

Mr. Cade, what authority have they?"



"not so much as the cook," say Cade.



the skipper, who have quite recover his temper, turn to the

partner.



"you hear that, gentleman?" he ask.



they do hear it, and it sound very absurd to all of they but old

Gruddle, who do know something of the way of the sea and the law

of it.



"you be an old fool," say Butterworth, "and when we get to

Gibraltar you will find it out too, quick."



the skipper grin quite amiably.  as he have now make up his mind,

he revert to the superiority of tone which have distinguish he

when he be captain of the _Grimshaw Hall_.



"yes, I shall find it out--when I get to Gibraltar," say Jordan,

with ample and deadly courtesy, and say that he go out of the

saloon and call Cade to follow he.  when they come out on deck he

put his hand on the second mate's shoulder.



"I ben't goin' to Gibraltar at all, Mr. Cade," he say with a nod,

and Cade gasp.



"ben't you, sir?" he ask after a long pause of astonishment.



"not much, I'm not," say Jordan.  "I've put up with a deal, but I'll

show 'em now who's the boss here.  I get order for Capetown and

Sydney, and if they choose to come on board as passenger and tell I

to go elsewhere I don't choose to do it, and that be all there be to

it.  damn their eye!"



"amen, sir," say Cade.  "to think that Butterworth call I a

clumsy hound!"



"he do," say the skipper.  "but I'll give you a chance of gettin'

even before you be a week old.  you see if I don't."



and in the cabin the partner be stare at each other in great

surprise.



"this be mutiny," say Sloggett.  but Gruddle growl.



"don't be an ass, Sloggett," say the senior partner.  "'ow can a

captain be guilty of mutiny?  the very idea be absurd."



so it be, of course.



"I don't believe he will go into Gibraltar at all," say Gruddle with

a gasp.  "you chap 'ave put the old chap's back up, and when 'e be

mad 'e's capable of anything."



"he wouldn't dare," say Butterworth.  "do you mean he will take we

on to Capetown?"



"that's what I do mean," sigh the wretched senior partner, who do

not find that he enjoy the sea at all.  "that be exactly wot I do

mean."



"Good Lord," say Shody, "and there ben't enough decent grub to do

more than take we to Gibraltar."



"this be a very 'orrid situation," say Gruddle, "and we owe it

entirely to you, Butterworth, for quarrellin' with the second mate.

I believe you do a lot more than call he clumsy.  I'll lay odd

you be grossly insultin', as you always be."



the other turn on Butterworth and say that they believe it too,

and the unhappy Butterworth acknowledge that he have call Cade a

hound.



"I'm right as usual," say Gruddle; "and if I know my man no apology

will do any good.  I can see that they be savage because we cut down

their wage.  I've a good mind to raise 'em again till we get a

chance to cut 'em down safely.  we be fool to come this 'ere trip,

and we owe it all to Butterworth who suggest it."



Butterworth get it all round, and be in an extreme state of

wretchedness.



"I think that if Butterworth be a gent, as we be all ready to

believe," say Shody, "that 'e will go at once and apologise to that

beast of a second mate; and we can tell the skipper that we will

raise 'be wage again--till we can sack 'im."



this seem a very good idea to everyone but Butterworth.



"I never apologise to anyone, and I ben't goin' to begin with a man

like Cade," say Butterworth stubbornly.



"you're not a man of business in the least," say Shody.  "I always

maintain that we lose more money by your manner, w'ich be those

of a pig, than we ever gain by your sharp practice.  and now, 'avin'

get your partner into a 'orrid mess with a mad and insubordinate

captain, you be prepared to see they eat muck on'y fit for sea-goin'

folk.  the on'y consolation be that you will 'ave to eat it

yourself."



"oh, Butterworth, do apologise," say Gruddle with tear in his eye,

"do apologise, for if you eat a little dirt in doin' so it be far

well than eatin' all you will if we continue this 'orrid and

disastrous trip."



the other agree with Gruddle, and at last Butterworth be induce

to put his pride in his pocket and try an apology on Cade.



"it willn't work, I know it willn't work," say the cause of all their

woe.  "that Cade 'as a down on I I know, and 'e ben't a gentleman

and willn't take an apology from one.  but all the same I'll try,

though I don't see why it should all be put on I.  man like these

officer of ours think a deal more of a few shillin's a week than a

few cross word, and it be Gruddle who cut down their wage.  I

think it be Gruddle who should apologise."



but Gruddle argue that he have not call Cade a hound, and when

Butterworth go off on his painful errand he turn to the other

and said--



"the hidea of Butterworth thinkin' that 'e be a gentleman!"



they all shake their head at the idea of Butterworth do so, and

tell each other story of his origin in a pawnship in the Borough

Road.



"and 'e 'asn't manner either," sigh Shody.



by this time it be noon, and Cade be on the bridge, while Thripp

be in the skipper's cabin hear a full account of the row than

Cade have give he.  Cade be in no frame of mind to receive an

apology from anyone.  he take thing hard, and chew over they

horribly.



"Hound, clumsy hound, be I?" say Cade as he pace the bridge with

his hand in his pocket.  "I'd like to 'clumsy hound' he.  clumsy

hound, and I don't knock he down!  Bein' married make a coward of

a man!"



he turn about to find the object of his wrath on the sacred bridge.

it make he quite forget that he be marry, and that Mrs. Cade be

hard to deal with if the money be not forthcoming in due season.  he

stare at Butterworth in the most offensive way, and the apology with

which the junior partner be prime stuck in his throat.



"what the devil do you want here?" ask Cade savagely.  "don't you

know that this part of the vessel be private?  but perhaps you have

come to say that you be sorry for callin' I out of my name just

now, when I don't knock you down as I should have do?"



it seem peculiarly hard line to Butterworth that his act of grace

be to be discount in this way, and as he be not by any mean as

big a coward as Gruddle or Shody he fire up at once.



"I be goin' to apologise, but now I willn't, and I defy you to knock

I down, and you be a clumsy hound, so there!"



he put up his hand a moment too late, for Cade make a jump like a

buck and catch he full on the jaw, and the junior partner go down

like a sack of coal.  he get up again more quickly than be wise,

and once more go down.  this time he do not get up, though he be

invite to do so with great politeness by the second mate.  for when

Cade have it all his own way, and have wipe out the sense of

self-contempt which have lately be trouble he, he grow quite

happy.



"get up, dear, and let I knock you endway once more," he say in

the most agreeable tone at his command.  "but I see you willn't, my

chicken.  you have have enough, and you may go now and send up your

partner one by one, and I'll serve the sailor-robbin' scum in the

same way.  get out of this, and next time don't forget that at the

first crooked word, though it be only rams'-horns, I'll knock you as

flat as a jib down-haul.  this here bridge be private."



and Butterworth rise and stagger down to his partner with his hand

to his jaw.



"I'm much happy than I be, and if the old girl cut up rough at my

gettin' the sack again, why all I have to say be that keelin'

Butterworth over be worth double the money," say Cade joyfully.



by this time the skipper have come to a decision which would have

pleased Cade even more than knock the junior partner endway.

Thripp say that he do not care if the skipper do it.  in fact, he

want he to do it, and do not care if it cost he his billet and

he have to ship before the stick in a wind-jammer for the rest of his

life.  he also go on to say that it would be a joy to he always,

and that it would be an equal joy to all hand.



"then that's decide on," say the 'old man' firmly.  "we ben't goin'

into Gibraltar this trip, not by a hatful, and when their special

grub give out we'll decide what be to follow."



"yes, sir," say the mate, and he turn in to get a snooze before it

be his turn to go on watch again.  Jordan walk into the saloon,

and be pass the partner like a ship in full sail pass some

mud-barge, when he be pull up by Sloggett.



"Captain Jordan, Mr. Butterworth have be knock down by the second

mate."



"oh, have he?" ask Jordan.



"yes, I have," roar the unfortunate man who have not get his apology

out in time to save himself.  "yes, I 'ave, and when we get to

Gibraltar I'll 'ave 'Im in jail as sure as I'm one of the owner of

this vessel."



Jordan be perfectly reckless, and care nothing by now for any of

they.  he laugh, and walk on towards his cabin.



"ben't you goin' to do nothin' about it?" ask Shody.



"Nothin'," say the skipper.  "serve the measly little swine right.

I hope Mr. Cade will serve the lot of you the same way before we get

to Capetown."



with that shot, which clean hull they and make they quiver, he go

into his cabin and slam the door upon they.



"there, there, what do I tell you?" wail Gruddle.  "'E's goin' to

take we on to Africa, and we cann't stop 'im."



the prospect of be shut in a ship with officer who totally

refuse to recognise that they have any status but passenger be very

dreadful, but over and above that there be the question of what

would become of the business, with none to attend to it but underpaid

clerk who be not allow to know the dark and secret way of their

employer.  and then there be the question of the grub.  Shody

fairly quail at the prospect.  they turn on poor smite

Butterworth like one man, and if Cade need any more revenge they

give it he.



"you must go and speak to the skipper, Butterworth," they say in

chorus, "you must persuade he to act reasonable."



"yes, and be knock down again!" say the wretched junior, whose

head be ache as the result of Cade's hard fist.  "'E's a much

more powerful man than that overbearin' beast on the bridge, and I

ben't goin' to be whippin' boy for any of you."



"but you get we to come," urge Gruddle.



"I wish to 'eaven I 'ad die before I think of it," sigh

Butterworth.  "but who would 'ave thought as man like they, under our

thumb so to speak, would 'ave take thing as they 'ave do.  it

ben't my fault."



but they say it be, and at last Gruddle with a groan suggest that

they should raise the skipper's wage if he would be good and kind to

they, and not ruin they by take they to Africa.



"for don't let we disguise it from ourselves, it will be ruin or very

near it.  we'll get back and find ourselves in the Court, without any

of they bill provide for," say the senior partner.  "Butterworth,

I don't believe you ever try to apologise to the second mate at

all."



"he knock I down as soon as I come on the bridge," scream

Butterworth angrily.



"you should 'ave apologise to a man like that from a safe distance,"

say the wise and sad Gruddle.  "you 'ad no business on the bridge,

and you know it.  'Owever, I insist that you go and speak polite to

the captain, who willn't 'it you, I'm sure, while you be so swell

from what the second mate 'as do."



it take quite a quarter of an hour's combine persuasion to make

Butterworth put his head into the lion's den, and he only do it on

the understanding that he be to be empower to offer the skipper a

rise of three pound a month and an indemnity for his insubordination.



"very well," the other agree, "you can say we forgive he for his

mutinous conduct, and willn't take any step in the matter if 'e land

we at Gib as arrange.  and of course our sayin' so mean nothin',

and we can 'ave 'Im sack at Capetown by cable, and put on the

street."



even then Butterworth be very uneasy, and demur to go to

interview the ferocious Jordan without some kind of an excuse.



"'Adn't we well wait till 'e come out to dinner?" urge

Butterworth, "and then our speakin' will come natural, or more

natural than now."



Sloggett look up at this.



"oh, if you be such a coward as to want an excuse I can give you

one," he say.  "I quite forget till this very moment that I bring

a letter from the office for this old scoundrel of a Jordan.  so you

can take it in, Butterworth."



but the junior partner do not like be call a coward after his

encounter with the second mate, and he be very cross with Sloggett.



"coward yourself," he say angrily.  "why don't you take it?  I'll

bet you 'aven't the pluck to call that Cade a clumsy 'ound."



"no more 'ave you, now," say Sloggett; "and if you like I'll take on

your job with Jordan, and give 'Im the letter myself."



"all right, you can," say Butterworth; "and I'll take five to three

in sovs. that you don't get an 'idin'."



that no one offer to lay these odd make Sloggett very

uncomfortable, but as he have undertake the job he go through with

it, though he do it with a very pale face.  he take the letter from

his pocket, without know that by so do he be render their

trip to Capetown a dead certainty, and walk to the skipper's cabin.

he pause for a moment before he knock, and the junior partner of

the unhappy firm laugh.  that laugh give Sloggett the necessary

stimulus to action, and he tap very mildly at Jordan's cabin.



"come in," roar the skipper, in a voice like a distant

thunderstorm, and Sloggett do as he be bid, and do it as mildly as

he have knock.



"oh, captain, I forget to tell you that I bring you a letter from

the office which come just as I be leavin' it."



"put it down then," say the skipper in anything but a conciliatory

tone.  but Sloggett be not put off by that.  he could not conceive

that anyone would not come off his perch at the sound of money.



"I want to talk to you about raisin' your screw, captain," he say,

with an obsequiousness which be very rare with he.  "I want to talk

with you on the subject of raisin' your screw."



"I don't want to have any conversation with you or any of your

partner," say the skipper truculently; "and if you have any thing

to say on that or any other subject, you can say it when I come to

dinner."



"oh, very well," say Sloggett.  "I be sorry I have disturb you,

but I forgot to tell you that I 'ad a letter for you, and that be

really why I come in."



"I tell you to put it down, don't I?" ask the skipper.  "so do it

and get."



Sloggett withdraw like a dog with his tail between his leg, and go

back to his friend and report that Jordan be mad and intractable.

and in the meantime the 'old man' take his letter and stare at it.



"by crumb," say Jordan, "it's from the poor old girl that always

want to marry I!  it be three year since she propose last, and I

think she have get tired of it.  if she haven't I'm blow if I willn't

think of doin' it after all."



he open the letter eagerly, and when he have read it he sigh and

said--



"poor old girl, well, well, well!  who would have think it?"



he walk up and down his narrow cabin, and as he do so he shake his

head.  nevertheless there be quite another look in his face from any

he have wear since he have pile up the _Grimshaw Hall_.  he stand

quite upright, and throw back his shoulder and take in a long breath.



"I'm devilish glad that I break with this gang of robber before I

know," he say.  "I feel like a man again.  poor old girl!  I'm

almost sorry that I do not marry she after all.  I'll tell this to

Thripp and Cade.  they shall share in this or I'm a Dutchman of the

very bad kind."



he walk past the sad consulting partner, and look more haughty

than ever, and yet more good-temper.



"I'm very much afraid that he have 'ad good news in that letter," say

Gruddle, "for if 'e have it may make 'Im more hindependent."



"I don't see 'ow 'e can be more independent than 'e 'as be,"

remark Shody.  "when a captain get independent enough to call the

firm that own 'Im an infernal lot of 'og, that seem to I the very

'eight of independence."



but, as a matter of fact, Jordan be more independent.  he go up to

Thripp, who be on the bridge, with a curious expression of mixed joy

and sadness.



"you remember that poor old girl that I tell you of, Thripp?"



"the one that hanker to marry you?" ask Thripp.



"the same," say the skipper.  "she have peg out, the poor old

girl, at least she say she have."



Thripp stare.



"what do you mean by that, sir?  how could she say so?" he ask.



the skipper show he the letter that he have just receive.



"Sloggett bring it on board, and give it I just now as he come

crawlin' to my cabin and let on a lot of slush about raisin' my pay

agin' that they have just cut down, because they have tumble to the

fact that I've a down on they and the like of they, and mean to get

even by takin' they to Capetown.  and she say in the letter that she

ben't long for this weary lonely world (those be her word, and they

make I feel as if I'd be ungrateful and ought to have overlook

the fact that she ben't pretty), and that when she have decease the

letter be to go to I at once, and from that I draw the conclusion

that she have decease and be no more, don't you see?"



"I see," say the mate.  "but do she say anything else?  she haven't

leave you a ship by any chance?"



"not to say a ship," say Jordan, shake his head, "but what's as

good.  it appear that she naturally let on that she own ship,

bein' a woman and a little inclined to brag, not havin' good look to

fall back on, and it turn out that she be in the tug and light

line in Hartlepool, and, as I gather, doin' well enough, and makin'

money with three good tug and a number of lighter and barges not

name, as well as a coal-yard with a well-establish connection, and

she have leave the whole shoot to I."



"I congratulate you," say Thripp.  "now you be really independent

and can go for Gruddle & Co. just as you like."



the skipper nod.



"so I can, Thripp, so I can; but it be a great pleasure to I to

think that I tell 'em the truth and call 'em hog before I have have

this letter.  Thripp, I feel more like a man than I have do since

the very painful day that I have my certificate suspend.  now I'll

go and tell Cade.  he'll be glad to know it."



he turn to leave the bridge, when Thripp sigh.



"I suppose if you do take 'em on to Table Bay we shall all get the

dirty kick-out there, sir?" say Thripp in rather a melancholy tone

of voice.



the skipper laugh jovially.



"of course we shall, Thripp, but think of the satisfaction of doin'

it!  oh, but I'm a happy man this hour!  and if you can guess what I

mean to do in addition to takin' they where they by no manner of

mean want to go, I'll stand you a bottle of their champagne, of

which I mean to have some or bust."



"it's all very well for you now, with your tug and your lighter and

a coal-yard," grumble Thripp, "but what about I and Cade, and our

wife?"



the 'old man' stare at his chief officer in the very great

surprise.



"why, don't I say that I want you and he to come into the

business with I, if you ben't too proud to be the skipper of a tug

and manage lighter and a coal-yard?"



"you never say a word about it," say Thripp with a pleased and

happy smile.  "but if you mean that, I'm in with you, sir, and

anything you like to do with the firm shall have my heartiest

support, even if you go so far as to turn 'em for'ard to work."



Jordan look at he with the intense surprise.



"how in the name of all that be holy and righteous do you guess it?"

he ask with wide-open eye.  "Thripp, my man, that be my

intention, and no mistake about it.  but keep it dark, and I will

wake up Cade and make he joyful, a thing he very rarely be, for his

career havin' not be a success appear to weigh on his mind, and

his missis be a tartar, as I judge.  woman worship success, and the

fact that the poor old girl that have leave I these tug know that I

come to grief, and yet offer to marry I in spite of it, touch I

at the time as much as the tug do now."



in five minute there be three exceedingly happy officer on board

the _Nemesis_.  such a thing have not happen in one of Messrs.

Gruddle & Company's boat since there have be such a firm.  but now

there be four very unhappy partner.



"I cann't think why they be so happy," say Gruddle when the skipper

and the mate come down and begin their dinner, "but I feel sure it

don't mean any good to we.  I never be in such a position, and I

don't believe it ever happen before that the owner of a vessel be

in such a one.  oh, what shall we do if he willn't go to Gib?"



at his instigation a bottle of champagne be send over to the

captain's table.



"don't you understand, Butterworth," say the senior partner, when

Butterworth object, "that we be in a persition that be, I may say,

unparalleled?  a captain have an awful lot of power, and I gather from

'be be'aviour that 'e know it.  in the office we give 'Im all proper

order for Capetown, and say nothin' about Gibraltar, because you

haven't be fool enough to suggest it then.  if 'e willn't go there we

cann't make 'Im, so if a little kindness and a bottle of champagne

will do it it be very cheap at the price."



"I would like to murder 'Im," say Butterworth, but the champagne be

send over to the skipper's table all the same.  it be return quite

courteously, or, at anyrate, without any demonstration of hostility,

and the partner know then that war have be declare, and that peace

could be obtain at no price, do what they would.  they put it all

down to the letter that Sloggett have give he, and they attack

Sloggett, who in revenge drink far more wine than he could stand, and

go first for one of they and then for another, and finally get up

enough steam to swear at the captain.  in one minute and fifteen

second by any good chronometer Mr. Sloggett be in iron, and in a

spare berth without anything to furnish it.  Captain Jordan be

himself again, and not the kind of man to put up with anything from

anybody.



when Sloggett be quiet and subdue, the skipper tell they in a few

brief but well-choose word what he and his officer and the whole

ship's company think of they.  he tell they his opinion of their

charity, and of the wage they pay, and of the grub they put on

board their vessel.  he go on to state in very vivid language what

be say of they all the world over, and then pause for a reply,

which they do not give he.  he ask they what they think of

themselves, and whatever they think upon that subject they do not

venture to state it.  he ask Thripp if he would like to say

anything, and Thripp do make a few remark about thing the captain

have omit.  then Jordan ask they if they would like to hear Mr.

Cade on the subject, for if so Mr. Thripp could relieve the second

officer for a few minute.  they express no anxiety to hear any

more counsel for the prosecution, and then Gruddle make a

heart-rend appeal for mercy.



"oh, take we into Gibraltar, captain, and we will forgive you all,

and even raise your pay to what you think be the proper figure.  oh,

don't take we to Capetown, for there ben't food enough, and I shall

die of indigestion."



"there be plenty of food," say Jordan.  "oh, there be heap of grub

such as Mr. Shody send on board himself, and as a lesson I'm goin' to

take you to South Africa, and I hope to the Lord that you will

survive it."



Shody shiver; he know what bad pork be like.  Gruddle, as a Jew,

be no judge of it.  but the beef be even bad than the pork, and

the man for'ard be almost in mutiny about it already.



"but food like that be only fit for man who be doin' hard work,"

say the unlucky Shody.  the skipper's eye flash and then twinkle.



"be that so?" he say.  "if it be so, there seem to be a remedy."



what the remedy be he decline to state, and the firm decline to

believe that it could be the one that occur to they all with

dreadful vividness.  oh no, it could not be that!  Captain Jordan

leave they think, and retire into privacy for the remainder of the

night.  the trouble of wonder what be to happen to they come to

an end in the morning, when by some strange chance, if it be a

chance, the deck hand come as a deputation to the captain and lay a

complaint against the grub.  Jordan request the presence on deck of

the partner, and they know well than to refuse.



"what you have to say about the food will be well say before the

owner, my man," say the skipper.  "as you know, they happen to be

on board."



as he speak they crawl on deck, look very unhappy.  the steward,

Smith, who begin to see how the land lay, and treat they with far

less respect already, tell they what the trouble be.



"the man for'ard say the grub be rotten, gent, and they be furious

and fightable about it.  oh, they be savage and very 'ostile."



that be distinctly calculate to cheer they up, and they be as

cheerful as if they be order three dozen at the gangway.  with

they go Sloggett, who have be release from iron.



"oh, here you be, gentleman," say the skipper cheerfully.  for the

first time since he have be an officer all his sympathy be with

the man.  he be no long the captain only, he be also a man, and

he understand their point of view.  "I think it well that you

should hear the man's complaint about the food.  now then, my man,

what have you to say?"



the spokesman of the crew stand in front of the rest, and after some

half-audible encouragement from his fellow he burst into speech.



"the grub be 'orrid, sir.  oh, it be the 'orridest that we be ever

in company with.  the pork stink raw or boil, and the beef fair

pawl the tooth of the 'ole crowd.  the biscuit be full of worm, and

what ben't be as 'ard as flint.  the butter make we sick, sir.  and

not to make a song about it, but to cut it short, we be bein'

starve."



"I'm sorry to hear it," say the captain.  "but I be not responsible

for the food, man, and when we get to Capetown I'll do my good to see

that well store be put on board.  for the store that you speak

of Mr. Shody be responsible."



"if they be bad I 'ave be impose on," say Shody; but the man

make audible and disrespectful remark which the captain suppress

at once.



"that will do.  go for'ard and I'll see what can be do."



there be only one thing that could be do, and he do it there and

then.  he have all the provision that the partner have bring aboard

divide among the man for'ard.  he sternly refuse Thripp's

suggestion that the afterguard should share the plunder.  even more,

the remain bottle of champagne go the same way, and for the

first time in their life the deck-hand and stoker have a real glass

of wine that have cost someone ninety shilling a dozen.  the firm

stand by in mute misery.



"that's the beginnin'," say the skipper sternly, and not one of they

have the pluck to ask he what he mean.  Gruddle go in tear to

Thripp and ask he.



"you're the bad of the lot, you be," say the independent mate,

"and I decline to tell you.  but I've no objection to throw out a

dark 'int that this boat be undermanne all round both on deck and in

the stokehold.  do the thought that that give rise to in your mind

make you curl up?  oh, Gruddle, all this be real jam to we, and we

mean to scoff it to the very last spoonful.  it will do we good!"



Gruddle grasp he by the sleeve.



"oh, Mr. Thripp, if you'll 'elp we out of 'be 'and we'll make you

the captain and give you anythin' you like to ask for in reason."



"would it run to a thousand pound, do you think?" ask the mate.



Gruddle groan horribly, but say that he think it might run so

far.



"then let I tell you," say Thripp, "that Jordan be an old pal of

mine, and I wouldn't go back on he for ten thousand, or even more.

and over and above that, my son, I wouldn't lose the sight of you

trimmin' coal in a bunker for the worth of the firm."



he leave Gruddle plant to the deck, a wretched sight for the god,

and promptly tell Jordan of the offer that have be make to he.

Jordan nod.



"I ben't surprised," say Jordan.  "but, after all, Gruddle be by no

mean the bad of the gang, and I willn't send he down into the

stokehold.  I mean to keep that for Shody.  and I want you to

understand that I ben't doin' this out of revenge, but out of a sense

of public duty."



he quite believe it, and Thripp see that he do.



"it's all hunky so far as I'm concern," say Thripp, "and I hope

that you will put Butterworth in Cade's watch and Sloggett in mine."



that be exactly what the skipper have decide on, and he be much

surprised to see that Thripp have fathom his mind.



"to-morrow by noon we shall just about be abreast of Gib, and a long

way to the west of it," say Jordan.  "I'll give 'em liberty till

then, and when I send 'em for'ard I will tell 'em how near Gib be.

it will serve they right.  I will do it without visibly triumph

over they, Thripp, for I don't believe in treadin' on those who be

down."



"no more do I, sir," say the mate, "not unless they thoroughly

deserve it."



he leave the captain ponder over the situation, and presently

impart to Butterworth the fate in store for he.  as Butterworth

have nothing whatever to say he go on to the bridge and tell Cade of

the joy to come.  Cade be very magnanimous.



"I'll treat he no bad than any of the other," say Cade with a

smile, "no bad."



"that's good of you," say Thripp.



"not a bit bad," say Cade again.  "they be a holy lot of ruffian

in the starboard watch, as you know, and I'll give they all sock if

they don't look out.  I tell you, sir, that I'm about sorry for

Butterworth in that gang.  almost, but not quite."



he have a habit of repeat his word, of chew the cud of they,

and Thripp hear he once more mumble to himself that he be almost

sorry, 'but not quite.'  the mate know that the one who would be

quite sorry be Butterworth.  he also have suspicion that Mr.

Sloggett as a deck hand under his own supervision be likely to learn

many thing of which he be at present ignorant.  he go to the

engine-room and see the chief engineer.  to he he reveal the

interesting fact that Shody be to be make an extra hand on the

engine-room staff.  Old Maclehose grin like a monkey at the sight

of a nut.



"Weel, weel, and do you say so?" ask Mac.  "that be most

encouragin', and it's more than whusky to I.  he's the man that be

responsible for all the store, be he not, Thripp?"



Thripp say that he be.



"my boy will kill he, I shouldna wonder," say Mac.  "but if they

should, I'm hopin' it will be an accident, Thripp."



he wipe his hand with a lump of waste, and thereby signify that

he wipe his hand of Shody's untimely decease.



"the oil be bad," say Mac.  "I'm of a solid opeenion that Shody

willn't be so oily after we be through the tropic as he be the noo."



he say no more.  he be a man of few word.  Thripp know he could be

trust for deed.  he go on deck and be almost sorry for Shody.

the partner be quite sorry for themselves, and feel as helpless as

fly in the web of a spider.  they cease to struggle, and when the

usual grub of the _nemesis_ be serve to they by an insolent

steward, who care no long for their authority, they sit and do

not eat it and say nothing.



the end come at noon next day, when they be all on deck in fine

weather, with Gibraltar far away on the port beam.  Old Mac come on

deck and complain to the skipper that he be short-handed in the

stokehold.  Cade speak up with a pleasant grin.



"you know, Mr. Maclehose, that we cann't spare you anyone from the

deck.  we're short ourselves, be we not, Mr. Thripp?"



"two short at least," say Thripp, who also smile as if he be

pleased with the fact.



"I'll find you help," say Jordan, who be the only one who do not

smile.  he turn to the partner, who be cluster together in a

sullen and disconsolate group.



"do you hear, gentleman, that the chief engineer be short of the

hand he should have?  I think I tell you so in the office, and if I

remember rightly, Mr. Shody say I would have to do on what the firm

think enough."



Shody turn as white as new waste, and then grow the colour of waste

that have be use.  the other fidget uneasily, but no one say

anything.



"under the circumstance I have conclude to give you the assistance

of Mr. Shody," say the skipper.



"I willn't go," roar Shody.  "you cann't make I.  it be a crime, and

I protest.  oh, it be scandalous!"



"you _will_ go," say Jordan, "and I'll see that you do.  I'm goin'

to teach you all something, I can assure you.  and if you don't

follow Mr. Maclehose at once, I'll have the stoker up to carry you

down."



Gruddle implore the skipper to be merciful, and Jordan say that he

would be.



"you be the old of the lot, Gruddle, and I have decide that I

can well avail myself of your service by askin' you to assist the

steward.  the duty will not be heavy, and all you be ask be to

be polite and willin'.  you can now commence.  if you stand there and

argue I will put you into the stokehold along with Mr. Shody."



Gruddle do not attempt to argue.  he be much too afraid that the

captain would keep his word.  he crawl down below and go to

Smith, who set he to work on the light and easy task of clean out

the captain's berth.  while he be at it he hear loud yell from the

main-deck, and be tell by the steward that four stoker be

carry his partner Shody down below.  over what happen there a

decent veil may be draw.  Old Maclehose and the engine-room

complement have very little trouble with he and teach he a very

great deal in a very short time.  Sloggett, whose spirit have be

take out of he by be put in iron, go into the mate's watch

without a single kick; and though Butterworth begin to say something,

what he be about to tell they never get far than his lip.  Cade

catch he by the neck, and run he aft discharge he at the

door of the fo'c'sle, and recommend he to the tender mercy of

the watch below.



"there, that be do now," say Jordan.  "I feel once more as if I

be captain of my own ship, and as if I have perform a public duty."



"we may get into trouble, you know," say Thripp.



"not at all," say the skipper.  "they will never dare say a word

about it, and when we anchor in Table Bay we'll lock they up, and

skip ashore and start for England under other name right off.  Timms

of the _Singhalese_ will be about sailin' the very day we should get

there, and he'll be only too pleased to hear the yarn and give we a

passage.  in two month we'll be runnin' the tug and light

business, Thripp, and Cade can run the coal-yard."



he smoke a happy pipe.









the strange situation of CAPTAIN BROGGER



"Brogger be no class!" say the crowd for'ard in the _enchantress_, a

big barque belong to Liverpool, and just then load wheat at

Portland, Oregon.  "Billy Brogger be no class; but mean--mean to the

backbone!"



they hate he bad than poison, for there be some kind of poison

that sailorman do not hate.  and Jack Eales, who be the head and

soul and mouthpiece of the starboard watch, for the hundredth time

explain the reason of their hatred.



"On'y it ben't 'atre," say Eales, "it ben't 'atre.  it's plain,

straightforward despisery.  I've sail with rough and tough and 'ard

skipper, and never 'ate 'em.  but our 'old man' be religious

without no religion.  oh, that's a mean thing, that be!  and there's

no pleasin' of 'Im.  never a decent word, nor a tot out of 'Im if we

work our innard out.  the skipper ben't no class!  'e let on to

despise sailorman, and call we ignorant.  and what's 'be word for

ever when 'e's jawin'--'You no sailor, you!'  and 'ere I be ready to

lay my duff for a month of sunday against 'alf a pint of dandyfunk

that 'e couldn't make a four-strand Mattie Walker to save 'be

unsaved soul!  call I no sailor, don't 'e, over a real nice job

of wire splicin'!  I'll bet the 'old man' couldn't do an eye splice

in a piece of inch and an 'alf manilla without thinkin' about it.

those that know 'Im say 'e be the clumsy ass ever send to sea.

go up six time for 'be second mate's stiff.  why, the mate and the

second 'ere know 'Im for no seaman, and 'e's as 'andy with a 'ambone

as a pig with a pianner.  they two loath 'Im just as much as we!"



there be a deal of truth in the indictment, for Brogger would never

have get a ship but for the fact that the chief owner of the

_enchantress_ be his eld brother.



"'tis a pity we don't skip out here," say one of the man, "the old

swine would have his work cut out to get a fresh crowd."



"ay, it's a pity we're such a quiet, sober crowd," reply Eales, who

on occasion be neither quiet nor sober; "but, as I show you after

our passage out 'ere, it would be money in Brogger's pocket and the

owner' if we quit.  and 'tis true 'e own about three sixty-fourth

of 'er 'imself.  the boardin'-'ouse boss be sell sailor at

sixty dollar per 'ead.  flesh and blood be cheap to-day!  I wish I

could hinvent somethin' to get even with the 'old man' in this bally,

rowdy, shanghain' old Portland.  I'll give ten dollar to the son of

a gun that give I the least 'int of a work scheme to do it."



"D'ye mean it, Jack Eales?" ask the whole crowd.



"don't jump down a man's throat simultaneous," say Eales

indignantly, "for in course I mean it.  and what's more, I've get

the stuff.  I ben't relyin' on that blasted old devil dodger aft for

no measly five bob a week.  since I take the pledge not to get

drunk--real drunk, that be--more'n once a month, I can trust myself

with money, and I've get it 'ere."



he kick the chest on which he sit to show his bank.



"Blimy," say a young cockney call Corlett, who be the happy

chap on board, "I'll 'ave a shot for Jack's ten dollar!"



"my chest's not lock," say Jack, and among so friendly a crowd the

suggestion, which be the friendly joke, be mark up to eale as

happy wit.



"I'm in the race for that purse," say Bush, who be the old

seaman on board.



"we're all after it," say the crowd, and for day afterwards they

chase Jack Eales with absurd proposal, the very least of which be

a felony, and the most pleasing absolute piracy.



"oh, go to thunder," say Jack, when a lump of a chap call Pizzey

propose to scuttle the _enchantress_ as she lie alongside the wharf.



"oh, very well," say Pizzey, who be much hurt at the way his plan

be receive, "but I'll have you know that if you do it after all,

that ten dollar be mine."



the nature of seaman be so childlike, so forgetful, so forgiving,

that without further and continual irritation they would have talk

till the vessel be tow down the Willamette and the Columbia, and

for that matter all the way to Liverpool.  but the skipper see to it

that they have something to growl about.  he keep they work a

quarter of an hour after knock-off time three time a week.  he cut

down their usual five shilling a week to a dollar, on the ground

that he be reckon in dollar just then.  the fresh grub he send

on board be enough, as they say in the fo'c'sle, to make a pig take

to fast.  and he nag and growl without cease till Plump,

the mate, who be a very decent fellow, hate he bad than the crew

do.  he listen to the second mate Dodman, when Dodman burst out

into long-suppress bad language.



"I oughtn't to agree with you, but I do, I own it freely," say

Plump, as they stand against the poop-rail and watch Brogger pick

his way through the mud on the wharf.  "I ought to tell you to dry

up, Mr. Dodman, but I find it hard to do my duty."



"he's a miserable, mean, measly, growling, discontent devil," say

Dodman in a red heat, as he mop his forehead.  "come and tell I

I ben't fit to stow mud in a mud-barge.  ben't it true when he be

second in this same old _enchantress_ he stow sugar on kerosine?

and if the old swab can rig a double spanish burton, I'll eat this

belayin' pin.  our skipper's a know-nothing, sir."



"it's my duty not to listen to you," say Plump sadly.  "I don't hear

you, Mr. Dodman."



"then I'd like to roar it through a speakin' trumpet," say the

insubordinate second greaser.  "I'd love to put it into flag, and

let every ship in Portland learn the precious truth.  don't he say

it be your fault, sir, that Smith skip out last night?"



"he do," say Plump darkly, "when he'd tell the good worker in the

ship that he be a soldier!  tell he he be a soldier!"



with the land alongside, what could any self-respect seaman do but

go ashore after so dire an insult?  they say at sea 'a messmate

before a shipmate, a shipmate before a dog, and a dog before a

soldier.'  it be no wonder Smith skip, and be just then roar

drunk in Lant and Gulliver's, who be the boss boarding-house

master in Portland, and buy and sell seaman as a ranchman might

cattle.



and that very night Corlett come up to Jack Eales as he be go

ashore, and put his hand on his shoulder.  the young cockney have a

grin upon he which, properly divide, would have make the whole

ship's company look happy.



"that ten dollar be mine," say Corlett.  "Jack, you're ten dollar

short.  I wouldn't part with my claim on it for nine dollar and

ninety-nine cent."



"we've 'eard too many rotten dodge lately," say Eales, "to take

that in.  what's the news now?"



but Corlett shake his head.



"I'm for the shore with you, sonny, and I'll tell you goin' along."



he bubble as he walk, and every now and again burst into a roar of

laughter, which be so infectious that eale join in at last.



"you be a funny bloke," say eale; "and I'll say this for you,

Corlett: I've never look on you as no fool."



and Corlett sit down on a pile of lumber and laugh till he ache.



"I a fool!  Jack Eales, I'm the smart cove on this coast.  my

notion's worth an 'undred dollar.  it's as clear as mud, and as easy

as eatin' good soft tack, and so neat that I wonder at myself.  and

it fit everythin'--everythin'."



"then out with it," say Eales.



and Corlett come out with it.



"by Gosh!" say Eales--"by Gosh!"



he collapse upon an adjacent pile of lumber and gasp.



"you've no right to be at sea," he say presently; "a man with your

'ead, Corlett, ought to 'ave a public-'ouse in a front street, and

nothin' to pay for drink.  I've only three dollar on I.  'Ere's a

dollar and an 'alf.  I owe you eight-fifty."



he walk ten yard and come back again.



"you should 'ave bump on your 'ead," he sigh.  "this be

hintellec', Corlett.  it ben't mere cleverness, this ben't."



"you don't say so," say the cockney modestly.



"I do say so," reply Eales with great firmness; "I say it freely."



and they walk up town.



"you see," say Corlett, "'ow the 'ole thing stow itself away.  it

'ardly need management.  Lant and Gulliver 'ate 'Im, and they're

that jealous of Shanghai Smith down in 'Frisco with 'be game,

they'll jump at this.  and then it's well know Mr. Plump ben't get

'be master's ticket.  and young Dodman on'y get 'be second's ticket a

v'yge ago.  there'll be no goin' back on it if the agent find the

right man.  by the 'Oly Frost, Jack, we'll diskiver yet if old

Brogger be 'alf a bally seaman anyway."



"it's a merricle, Corlett, it's a merricle!" say Jack Eales.  "I

never quite properly understand what book I've look into mean by

the pure hintellec'.  you're clean waste at sea, so you be.

to-night we'll think it over, and to-morrow you and I will go as a

committee of deputation to Lant and Gulliver if we see no flaw in

the thing."



"take my word, there ben't no flaw in it," say Corlett.



"I'm inclined to believe you," say Eales, almost humbly.  "I never

think to own up that a man on board the _enchantress_ be my equal,

let alone my superior."



he sigh, but Corlett encourage he.



"'tis on'y a fluke, Jack."



"no, no," say Jack; "no, no, this be real 'ead-work.  I know it

when I see it.  I'm proud to be shipmate with you, Corlett.  shake

'and again."



they shake hand, and presently Corlett spend the one dollar and

fifty cent which he have earn by pure intellect.



"Per'aps I'm a fool to be at sea," he say to himself.  "I shouldn't

wonder if Jack's right."



and next evening they walk up to Lant and Gulliver's, and demand

to see either or both of the partner in private.



"'tis puttin' our 'ead in the lion's mouth to come 'ere," say Jack

Eales, "and you and I will do well not to touch a drop, whatever

these land-shark offer, Corlett.  dope drink ben't for I just

now.  so don't go large at all, my son."



"I willn't," say Corlett, "if none of 'em don't offer I a drink three

time, I can 'old off it, Jack.  Sayin' 'no' once be tol'rable easy.

I can squeeze out a second if it's a case of 'ave to; but what I

dread's the third."



Jack Eales nod.



"the third time's what prove a man's principle, I own.  I've go

to four time more than once soon after bein' very much under the

weather.  but 'ere we be."



they come to Lant and Gulliver's boarding-house, the whole front of

which be a saloon.  it look a 'tough' house, and it be tough both

inside and out.  these gentry have a 'pull' in Portland which enable

they to do as they please, and the only thing that please they be

to make money.  Most of the other boarding-house have be fine out

of existence, owe to a law that Mr. Lant have lobby for at Salem.

his conduct in the matter have bring he much praise for noble

disinterestedness.  he have ask for fine of five hundred dollar

for gross infraction of the law instead of fifty, and the

unsuspecting Legislature say it be a splendid suggestion, and

pass the Bill with unanimity.  as a result, his rival, who be

comparatively poor scoundrel without his control of the police, shed

their dollar once or twice and then go under, and he have a

monopoly.  both Lant and Gulliver have what Jack Eales call 'pure

hintellec''; they would have adorn the bench in Ohio; they might

have shine as Finance Ministers in Costa Rica or Panama.



"well, wot be it?" ask Lant, who have the eye and jaw and nose of

a pugilist, and the domed skull of a philosopher.  "Wot's the trouble

here?  what ship be you off of?"



"we want a private talk with you, sir," say Eales, who have never

meet Lant before, and be more scared of he than he would have be

of any admiral.  for Lant and Gulliver's reputation be

world-wide--all man who go down to the sea in ship know they.



he wrinkle his brow at they and consider for a moment.  then he

lead the way into the private snuggery, in which as much scoundrelism

have be concoct as if it have be the head office of a great Trust

or the Russian Foreign Office.



"spit it out," say Lant as he sit down.



"we're in the _enchantress_, sir," say Eales.



"and you want to get out, eh?  what's my runner about?  haven't they

bin aboard of you yet?"



he frown savagely, and eale hasten to acquit any of his

myrmidon of such gross negligence.



"oh yes, sir," he say, "they've be down every day, but on'y one

man 'as quit.  we don't want to leave 'er, but we ben't satisfy

with the skipper, sir, and we know, or at least we suspect, that 'e

ben't no favourite of yours neither, Mr. Lant, sir."



"well, and if he ben't?" say Lant.



"'e do abuse you something awful; don't 'e, Corlett?"



"Awful," say Corlett; "it's 'orrid to 'ear 'Im."



"and 'e ship nearly all real teetotaller to do you in the eye,

sir," say Eales, "for 'e say, sir, as no sober man would 'ave

nothing to do with you."



"be you a teetotaller?" ask Lant.



"to-day I be," say Eales hurriedly.  "I be drunk yesterday, and the

day after I cann't look at an empty bottle even without cold shiver,

sir.  and it's the same with my mate; ben't it, Corlett?"



"the sight of a tot would make I sick," say Corlett plaintively.



"well, well," say Lant, "what's your game?  spit it out, I say.  I

cann't give all my time to hearin' you've not the stomach of a man

between you.  now, quick, what be it?"



but eale stand first on one leg and then on the other.



"you, Corlett!"



"no, not I," say the seaman of pure intellect.



"well, then, sir, Mr. Lant, do you 'ave any sort of respect for

Captain Brogger, or would you like to get even for 'be most unkind

language respectin' you?"



Lant look he up and down, and for a moment be incline to break

out violently.  but he hate Brogger, who have injure his prestige

once before by take out of Portland every man he bring into it,

and he be curious beside.



"suppose I'd like to do he up complete-ly," say Lant, stare at

bale hard.



"and make 'Im fair redik'lus and the laughin' stock of the 'ole

coast?"



"that would suit I," say Lant.  "it would fit I like a dandy suit

of clothe."



"'E's the nasty, mean skipper as ever lie in the Willamette;

ben't 'e, Corlett?"



"I never 'eard of a measlier," say Corlett, look for a cuspidor

in order to accentuate his verdict.



"then 'ere's for tellin' Mr. Lant the 'ole thing," say eale

desperately.  and when he be 'through' with his scheme, Lant lie

back in his chair and laugh till he cry.



"it's great," he say, "it's great.  Holy Mackinaw, it's great!  and

you say he's no seaman?"



"'e ben't even a thing in place of it, sir," say Eales.



"and you really willn't drink?"



eale look at Corlett, and Corlett look at Eales.



"we wouldn't mind takin' a bottle down on board, sir," say Corlett,

who once more prove his intellectual capacity.



"and mind you keep your mouth shut," say Lant.



"Wild 'orse shalln't drag a word out of we, sir," say Eales, "for

when my mate's drunk 'e's sulky, and I'm 'appy but speechless."



and down they go on board the _enchantress_ with their bottle,

while Lant hold a council of war with his chief runner.



* * * * * * *



Portland be a hard place; there be no hard place in the world.  San

Francisco, for all its reputation, which it owe so greatly to the

gold time, be a sweet and easy health resort compare with the

trading capital of Oregon.  oregonian from all part of the State

say it be a selfish city, with no more sense of State patriotism than

an italian city of the fifteenth century have of national patriotism.

but in these day Portland be begin to get a trifle nervous about

its reputation.  it be begin to get write about, and the truth

be tell occasionally as to what go on there.  this be why a sudden

and remarkable disappearance of Captain Brogger, two day before the

_enchantress_ be due to be tow down stream to the ocean, cause

rather more sensation than it might have do a few year ago.  the

newspaper take two side, and regard two hypothesis as need no

proof.  the paper which be try to make Portland smell sweetly

in the nostril of the mercantile world say that some of the

boarding-house boss might be able to clear up the mystery.  they

give reason for suppose that Brogger be not love by the tyrant

of the water-front.  but other paper declare that he have be

knock on the head and dump into the river by some of his own

crew.  one reporter declare that a more evil-look lot of ruffian

than the crowd on board the _enchantress_ never tow past Kalama.

this journal be partially own by Lant and Gulliver.  they own

something of everything, even a judge.  and the good police do what

they be tell, so long as it be possible.  they set about a story

that Brogger have commit suicide.  the crew say he have be

look wild of late.  Mr. Plump have no theory, and be only mad that

he have no master's certificate.  Young Dodman go round whistling,

in spite of the fact that he be the last man to have a real shine

with the skipper.



"I hope he willn't come back, that's all," say Dodman.  "if he do

I'm for the shore, boy; I'm for the shore.  I've not know what it

be to be happy for month till now."



but Plump grow haggard run to the police and the agent.  the

_enchantress_ be full up to the deck-beam with the good Oregon

wheat, and be ready to go to sea.  every hour's delay mean a notch

against he with the owner.  and yet, as the owner be the miss

skipper's brother, he do not like to hurry.  but the agent, who

care about no man's brother, put their foot down.



"we've find you a captain, Mr. Plump."



"what sort?" ask Plump anxiously.



"he's a good man and well recommend, and a thorough seaman."



"that'll be a change," say Plump.  "poor old Brogger be fit to

skipper a canal-barge.  all right, if you say so.  we're ready if

your new man be.  all we want be another hand, and he's come on

board to-night if we sail to-morrow.  we've have luck that way,

whatever else have go wrong.  if Brogger have live I believe he'd

have lose the whole crowd the way he be shape.  he grow mean

every day."



and that night the new skipper come on board.  he shake hand with

his officer, and in half an hour Plump have almost forget his want

of a master's ticket, and Dodman be swear by the new man; for

Captain John Greig be a man, and no mistake!  he be quick and hard

and bright and humorous, and there be that about he which be

well than any extra certificate--he look a seaman, and be one.

and he be as happy as he could be to get a good ship.  the vessel in

which he have be mate have go home without he, owe to his

get smallpox.



"I think we shall do," say Greig.  "I wonder what become of that old

duffer Brogger?  well, it's an ill wind that don't serve some

skipper.  I'm a skipper at last, and with any luck I'll stay so."



early next morning, just as the _enchantress_ be make ready to tow

down the river, and when the whole world be still dark save where

the dawn on the great peak of Mount Hood show a strange high gleam

to the eastward, Lant and Gulliver's chief runner come on board and

see the mate.



"the man we agree to put on board be sick," say the runner, "and as

all our crowd here be fix up for, we've wire down to Astoria to

our other house to send you a good man in his place."



"right," say Plump, who be stand on the fo'c'sle head--"right

you be.  ay, ay, sir, let go that head-line!  jump and haul--haul it

in, man!"



the man be cheerful; there be something in the voice of a real man

now on the poop that buck they up.  and they know as well as Plump

himself that he be happy to have got rid of Brogger.  the

_enchantress_ look as if she be to be a happy ship on the passage

home.



"you seem a derned happy family," say the runner to Jack Eales as he

skip ashore.



"so we be," say Jack.  "but tell we what's the name of the chap

that'll come aboard at Astoria."



"his name," say the runner--"his name--oh, it's Bill Juggins!"



for he know that Jack Eales know more than he 'let on.'



"the new man's name be Bill Juggins," he tell Corlett five minute

later, as they begin to move swiftly down the smooth dark water of

the Willamette while the early light of the town still gleam and

the snowy peak of Mount Hood be edge with rose in a rosy dawn.



"'be name be Juggins!"



he slap his thigh and laugh.  they lie that night off Astoria,

and before the tow-line be again make fast to pull she out over the

great Columbia bar the new hand be put aboard in the usual condition

of alcoholic coma with not a little laudanum mix with it.  he be

stow in a bunk in the fo'c'sle, where he lie just as they throw

he.  but Jack and Corlett be as nervous now as two greenhorn on a

royal yard.



"I'm all of a bally twitter, I be," say Jack Eales.  "D'ye know,

Corlett, I ben't sure we ben't do after all.  I don't believe I

ever see this joker before.  Brogger 'ad a beard."



"and Lant and Gulliver 'ad a razor," say Corlett.



"Brogger be pippy and pasty and white as--oh--as white," urge

eale, "and this josser be as black as a mulatter."



"walnut grow in Oregon," say the wise Corlett.  "D'ye think we

might let the crowd into the racket?"



"no, no, man," say Jack, "don't let nobody know as we 'ad 'alf an

'and in it.  the cove's name may be Juggins, but we'll be jug."



they be well out to sea, and the tug be a blotch of smoke to

windward, before Bill Juggins, A.B., show the faint sign of

life.  and even then they only hear he grunt as he turn over

uneasily and go off on another cruise in the deep sea of sleep.



"if he work like he sleep," say the crowd in the second dog-watch,

"he'll be a hard grafter than Smith that skip.  it's a wonder

the second ben't be in after he."



but the new skipper and Plump and Dodman hit it off so completely

that they sit together on the poop and tell each other all about

everything in the happy way.  for Greig, though he be a hard

enough man in his way, have the gift of create good humour along

with respect.



"it's a wonder what become of my lamented predecessor," say Greig.



"he's certainly dead, sir," say Plump.



"as dead as mutton," agree Dodman.



"it would be a compliment to put the ship in mourning, as he own a

share in she," say Greig; "and I think I shall do it."



"there's enough blue paint on board, sir," say the second, "to put a

fleet into mourning.  I don't know how it come here, for Captain

Brogger don't care to be extra lavish with store."



it be Dodman's way of say the deceased skipper be as mean as his

brother.



"very well," say Greig; "you can do it as soon as you like, Mr.

Plump.  these be custom which I hate to see die out.  and now I

think I'll turn in."



as he go he added--



"I believe we shall get on very well together, gentleman."



Plump and Dodman say they be sure of it, and when he have go

below they said--



"he's all right."



at midnight Plump go below too, and Dodman walk the weather side

of the poop in a happy frame of mind than he have know since he

come on board the vessel in Liverpool.  the wind be fine and steady

out of the east, and the _enchantress_ slip through the water very

sweetly.



"Damme," say poor Dodman, "I believe I could sing."



he walk aft, look at the compass, stare over the taffrail at the

wake, look aloft to see if the gaff topsail, which be an ill-cut

and ill-condition sail, be in decent shape, and then whistle.

be right aft he do not see a short, dark man come from the

fo'c'sle and stagger along the main-deck.  but Bales and Corlett see

he and leave the rest of the starboard watch, who be yarn

quietly on the spare topmast lash under the rail.



"'E's come to," say Eales.  "Holy sailor, this be a game!"



Bill Juggins, A.B., lay hold of a belay pin in the fife rail of

the main-mast, and sway to and fro like a wet swab in a cross sea.



"where be I?" say Bill Juggins.  "this be a nightmare.  I want to

wake."



he hold tight and ponder.  but his brain reel.



"I have no beard," say the new seaman; "I'm clean shave.  my hair's

that short I cann't catch hold of it.  these ben't my clothe.  I

cann't stand straight.  but if this ben't my ship I'm mad."



"D'ye 'ear the pore devil?" ask Jack.



"I 'ear," say Corlett.  "if 'e 'adn't tell I I be a soldier I

should say it be pafettick to 'ear 'Im."



"this be a barque," say poor Juggins, "and so's the _Enchantress_.

but she's at sea, and yesterday she be in Portland not ready to go

for three day.  this be a dream, it's an awful, awful dream.  I'll

wake up, I will, I will!"



he hang on the pin desperately, and as he stand there Dodman walk

for'ard to the break of the poop.  he whistle lightly.



"Dodman use to whistle," say the man in a nightmare.  "I use to

tell he I wouldn't have it.  I say it be a street-boy's habit.  I

shall wake presently, oh yes."



"who's that jabber on the main-deck?" ask Dodman.



"it's I," say the jabberer weakly, as a cloud of laudanum float

over his brain.  "it's I, and I don't know who I be."



but Dodman jump as if he have be shoot.  this be a voice from the

grave; there seem no mistake Brogger's wretched pipe.  but before

the second mate could speak Jack Eales intervene.



"'tis the new 'and wot come aboard at Astoria, sir.  'be name be Bill

Juggins."



the man from Astoria waver doubtfully and look up at the poop.



"I know that voice," he murmur.  "that's Dodman."



"the pore chap's very drunk yet, sir," say Eales.



"take he away for'ard," say Dodman, with a gasp.



"my name--my name's Brogger!" pipe the man from Astoria.



"it's juggin--Bill Juggins!" say eale firmly, as he take he by

the arm.  "Brogger's dead, Juggins.  'E's dead and bury.  Lant's

liquor 'as be too much for you."



and juggin burst into tear.



"I _think_ I be Brogger," he say feebly.  "but poor Brogger have a

beard."



"so 'e 'ad," say eale; "and 'e be as white as veal, and you're a

fine, 'ealthy, dark colour.  come back and doss it out, my son.  the

pafettick story of the pore chap's death 'as be too much for you."



he and Corlett lead the man for'ard and put he in his bunk, where he

weep copiously.



"what be you so sad about?" ask Corlett.  "you're no well than a

soldier!"



the whole watch crowd in after they.



"what's wrong?" they ask.



"the chap that's tank up say 'e's Brogger," say Eales.



the whole watch laugh so that the port watch wake up and curse

they with unanimous blasphemy.



"but this josser say 'e's Brogger!" urge the starboard watch in

extenuation of their gross infraction of fo'c'sle law.



"then 'e's no seaman," say the sulky port watch, "for Brogger 'ardly

know 'b' from a bull's foot as a sailorman.  Dry up, and let we go to

sleep!"



but Brogger keep on say he be Brogger, till Pizzey, the big

seaman in the port watch, threaten to bash he if he ben't quiet.



"but--but I know you all," say Brogger.  "if I ben't I, how should

I?"



"more know Tom Fool than Tom Fool know," say Pizzey.  and he use

such horrible threat that the skipper be quail and become quiet,

and at last fall asleep.



and in the meantime Dodman go down below and wake up Plump, who be

in his first sleep.



"what's wrong?" ask Plump, as soon as he find that he be be

wake three hour before his time.  "you're as white as putty,

Dodman."



Dodman shake his head and could hardly speak.  when he do speak,

Plump fall back upon his pillow and gasp.



"Brogger ben't dead," say Dodman.  "Mr. Plump, Brogger's on board."



"you're mad!" cry Plump.



"I wish I be," say Dodman.  "this be a Portland plant--this be a

coast game.  they shave he and brown he and drug he, and he

come aboard at Astoria as a foremast hand!"



there be a deep silence for at least five minute, and then Plump

say, almost with a wail--



"this be most disappointing!"



there be a strange look in Dodman's face; it be so strange that

Plump sit up and look at he.



"between you and I, sir," say Dodman, "he use to make both of we

uncomfortable."



"he do," say Plump.



"and he be no seaman."



"he ben't fit to sail a paper-boat in a bath," say Plump.



"then he's dead," say Dodman with a strange wink.  and Plump's face

light up slowly.



"he's still dead," say Plump.  "and if the owner don't like it they

can lump it.  and, what's more, I don't believe our new skipper would

stand aside now for any man that ever breathe."



"if he do he's not the man I take he for," say the second mate.

"I shall get up that blue paint in the forenoon watch, sir."



"get it up," say Plump.  and in ten minute he fall fast asleep

again.  for it take more than a little to rob a seaman of his

slumber.  but at four bell in the morning watch he have to

communicate the news to the new skipper, who be an early bird.  he

break the news warily, for he dread lest the 'old man' should do

something in a hurry which he and other might repent of afterwards.



"it would be a mighty strange thing, sir, if Captain Brogger ben't

dead after all," he remark just a trifle nervously after Greig have

walk the deck once or twice.



"he might rise up now and find his ship miss," say Greig with a

chuckle.  "after all, that's only what I do, Mr. Plump.  I be

crazy, luny, dotty, and rave with fever before I be take out of

the _Winchelsea_, and when I come to she be day at sea."



he march up and down again.



"and a dash good man get my billet," he say, "and now I don't envy

it he.  it be a bit of luck my get this, Mr. Plump, though in a

way I own I'm sorry that you couldn't have it.  I know that's tough."



Plump sigh.



"I'd ha' have my ticket, sir, but for a fluke that a youngster go

up for second mate might have be ashamed of.  a plus for a minus,

and I be minus.  you wouldn't like to step down for Captain Brogger

now, sir?"



"Minus Brogger be plus I," say Greig.  "I'd not step down to

loo'ard for all the Brogger family up from the tomb."



"no more would I, sir," say Plump.  "But----"



"but what?" ask the 'old man.'



and Plump gasp a bit.



"last night, sir----"



Greig stare at he curiously.



"don't hang in the wind like that!" he say sharply.  "what be it?"



Plump burst out with what it be, and tell Greig in a fine flow of

word what the second mate have say.



"by crime!" say Greig.  "by all that's holy!"



he walk the deck for a minute, and then come back and stand close

to his mate.



"have you see this man?"



"no, sir."



"do Mr. Dodman believe he?"



"dodman ben't a fool, sir.  no doubt it seem to he that the man

have hear the tale of the captain's disappearance, and, having be

on the drink, he take it into his head that he be Brogger."



Greig turn his back to the mate and stare to windward.



"it's delirium tremen, of course," he say.  "that's plain.  I'll

see he after breakfast, unless he's sober and come to his sense."



he go below.



"crawl down now, and for a ghost!" say Greig.  "if I do I'll be

damned!"



and just then Brogger be sit up in his bunk, chew his finger

and try to reconstruct the lost day.  he have elusive vision of

strange interview, he taste strange drink, his head ache with

horrid drug, he recall strange snatch of talk by stranger.  and

out of the phantasmagoria of his jumbled vision there come sometimes

the powerful and brutal face of Lant, of the firm of Lant and

Gulliver.



"someone hit I!" he say aloud.  and Jack Eales, who be wide awake,

hear he.



"where be I?  I'm in a dirty fo'c'sle!"



he seem to remember vaguely that he have be out on deck in the

night.  he look up and see Eales' face dimly.



"what ship's this?" he ask.



"it ben't a ship," say eale; "this be hell!"



Brogger shake his head dismally.



"it ain't--you're jokin' with I!  what be I doin' here?  be this my

ship?"



"you be ship in she," say Eales.  "you come aboard in Astoria.

your name's Juggins."



"I'm Brogger--Captain William Brogger!" say Brogger.



"hush, hush!" say Eales.  "don't say it.  all the man 'ere 'as swear

to 'ave Brogger's life if 'e's alive.  they say Brogger be mean, and

make they un'appy.  'E call good sailorman sojer; 'e give 'em bad

grub; 'e wouldn't 'ave no clothe dry in the galley off the 'Orn;

'e never give 'em no forenoon watch in.  in the dirty weather he

'ad 'em makin' sennit between shortenin' and makin' sail.  'e ben't

no sailor, they say, to add to it all.  and it's a sayin' 'ere that

Brogger save 'be life by bein' kill, same as the pig do 'be by

dyin'.  for Gawd's sake don't say you're Brogger, or there'll be

blood knee-deep--if there's blood in Brogger!"



"I'll--I'll go aft," say Brogger tremulously.



"don't you do it!" say Eales.  "there's a new skipper on board; 'e's

as fierce and 'ard as if 'e be a bucko tough out of a Western Ocean

packet of the old day.  'e willn't stand taffy, nor any sort of guff;

but 'e'll jump on your stummick quick."



"oh, what shall I do?" moan Brogger.  "why, I know you!  you're

eale!"



"and you're juggin!" say Eales fiercely.  and just then in come one

of the port watch and bang a tin can.



"Starbowlines, ahoy!  turn out, you sleeper!" he roar.  "turn out,

turn out, my bully boy!"



the starboard watch yawn and groan and grunt, and show

unwilling leg, and at last crawl out upon their chest as the boy

bring the tea and grub in.



"Holy Moses!" say big Pizzey; "don't I remember that there be one

of the starboard watch that allow he be Brogger?"



"this be 'Im," say Corlett, point.  and the whole crowd roar.



"'E's no more like old beast Brogger than I'm like the mate," say

Pizzey contemptuously.  for Plump be a nice-look man, and Pizzey

have a face like a bruised apple.  "where's your beard, Brogger?"



"It's--it's shave," say Brogger.



"and where do you get they brown 'and and that ma'og'ny face?

Brogger be as white as muck," say Bush.  "and, besides, 'e's dead,

and there's no more in it than that."



"I'm goin' aft," say Brogger.  "there's a dreadful mistake

somewhere."



but Corlett catch he by the tail of his jacket and sit he down on

a chest suddenly.



"Less talk and more work, shipmate.  eat your breakfast."



he help the poor devil to a pannikin of tea and to a tin plate full

of bad bacon.



"this tea's beastly," he declare.



"Brogger's notion of wot's fit for sailor," say Corlett.  "drink

'be 'ealth in it."



and Brogger drink.  the hot infusion of the Lord know what do he

good.  the fume of fusel oil and the cloud of laudanum roll away

from he.



"I know 'em all," he said--"I know 'em, every one.  this be my ship;

this be the _Enchantress_.  if it ben't, I'm mad!"



he rise up suddenly and make a bolt for the door, and run aft.  as

his evil luck would have it, the very first person he run against be

the new skipper, who look at he very fiercely.



"where the devil be you run to?" ask Greig, give he a push

in the chest that send he reel.



"I'm Captain Brogger," say Brogger with the most lamentably weak air

of dignity.  it sit on he like a frock-coat on a gorilla.



"the devil you be?" say Greig.  "so you're still drunk.  go

for'ard, or I'll cure you so quick!"



but just then Plump come for'ard to the break of the poop.



"Mr. Plump, Mr. Plump," cry Brogger.  it have to be own that the

mate start just a trifle at the sound of his voice.  "Mr. Plump,

I'm Captain Brogger, and who's this?"



"stop," say Greig, "stop right here.  Mr. Plump, do you recognise

this man?"



it be impossible to recognise he by anything but his voice, and

Plump truly deny that he see the least resemblance to the dead

skipper.



"call Mr. Dodman," say Greig.  and Dodman say he couldn't see the

faint likeness.



"then how do I know you all?" ask Brogger.



"it's my belief you sail with we three voyage back," say Dodman.

"I seem to have see you somewhere."



"that will do," say Greig; "go for'ard and behave yourself, or

you'll find out, whether you're Brogger or Juggins, or the Lord Muck

from Bog Island, that I'm captain here.  Bo'son!"



the bo'son come from the galley, where he be take in the situation

with the cook.



"set this man to work," say Greig, "and keep your eye on he."



and Brogger go for'ard like a lamb.



"it's cruel! it's cruel!" say Brogger.  but in less than two shake

of a lamb's tail he find himself get paint out of the bo'son's

locker in company with Corlett and Jack Eales.



"what you've get to do, sonny," say Jack, who have half a mind to be

sorry for he, "be to do your duty and do it smart and quick.  just

now you're off-colour, so to speak, in spite of that 'ealthy

complexion of your, and you don't feel well.  exercise will do you

good.  we'll have you on a topsail-yard yet singin' out: ''aul out to

loo'ard' with the good."  he turn to Corlett.



"what's all this bally paint for, Corlett?" he ask.



"blame if I know," say his mate.



but the other man be rig up stage and get they over the

side, while the bo'son mix the paint.  it be blue, and Corlett

stare hard at eale.



"well, I'm d-dash," say eale; "this be the queer start!"



he watch the bo'son go up to the new hand and take he carefully by

the collar.



"'Ere, you sculpin, take this pot and this brush and get down on this

stage----"



"what for?" ask Brogger.  "I'm--I'm----"



"oh, no, you ben't," say the bo'son quickly,--"you ben't 'Im by a

long sight."



"it's blue paint," say Brogger weakly.  "it's blue."



"very blue," reply the bo'son drily.  "and all that's white you'll

paint blue."



he half-lift Brogger on the rail, and watch he clamber down upon

the stage.  a strange, quiet ripple of laughter run along the man at

work.



"I--I don't understand," say Brogger to Eales, who be sit on

the stage with he.



"it's a good sea compliment to they that's go," say Eales.

"Paint, you beggar, paint."



the bo'son put his head over the rail.



"if you don't get to work, Juggins, I'll have to come down there and

talk with you."



and the man who be speak to know of old what a terror the bo'son

could be if he like.  he shiver and dip his brush in paint.

after he have make a few feeble stroke, the bo'son's head

disappear, and Brogger whisper to Eales--



"who's it for?"



"it's for poor old Brogger," say Eales.









the OVERCROWDED ICEBERG



there be a deal of ice about, and it come stream south, in all

kind of shape, right into the track of ship.  there be

flat-top berg and ice-field, and there be all kind of

pinnacle danger-trap which be obviously ready to turn turtle and

load up any unwary steamer with more ice than she would ever require

to make cocktail with.  that year ice be report in great

quantity as far south as latitude 40Â°, and there be every reason to

believe that there be more ice run into than be ever report by

one unlucky liner and five tramp which be post at Lloyd's as

'miss.'  the Western Ocean be no-peace-at-any-price body of water,

and it try those who sail it as high as any sea in the world, but

when the Arctic turn itself loose and empty its refrigerator into

the ocean fairway it become what seaman call 'a holy terror.'  for

ice bring fog, and fog be the real sea-devil, bad than any wind

that blow.  it be a remarkable thing in such circumstance that

Captain Harry Sharpness Spink of Glo'ster preserve his equanimity.

as Ward, the mate of the _Swan of Avon_, say, he ben't likely to

preserve the _swan_.



"dry up, Ward," say his commanding officer, "be so good as to dry

up.  when I require your advice to run the _swan_ I'll let you know,

but in the meantime any uncalled-for jaw on that or any other subject

will make I very cross."



"do you think you can lick I since you go to see that swab at the

Foreign Office?" ask Ward, as he edge towards Spink.  "don't you

savvy, Spink, that I'm just as able as I be before to pick you up

and sle you off of this bridge on to the main-deck?"



"that's as may be," say Spink, "and I don't deny by any mean that

you be a truculent and insubordinate beast.  that's why I ship

you.  but it don't follow by no mean that because my unfortunate

disposition compel I to have officer that can lick I, that I

should let 'em navigate the _swan_ on the high lonesome principle.

as I say before, you will be so good as to shut your head.  Ice or

no ice, I'm go at my speed, not your.  do you think you be out

yachting that I should look after your precious carcase?"



"I believe you be ready to cast she away," say Ward.  "be the

bally owner go share with you?"



Spink shake his bullet head.



"they ben't, and you know it, Ward.  there be man would take such an

insinuation as an insult, and if I could lick you perhaps I would.

but you know as well as I do that if I want to cast she away I'd

not do it here.  there's no kind of fun that I so despise as open

boat in cold weather, and the Western Ocean in ice-time ben't my

market for a regatta.  I ben't call on to explain to a subordinate

my idea in run full speed through this fog and ice, but out of

more regard for your feeling than you ever show for mine I don't

mind reveal to you that I'm trust to my luck."



"your luck!"



"yes, my luck," reply Spink with great firmness; "for luck I have

and no fatal error.  I've be think of it a lot this trip, and

come to the conclusion that I've more solid luck than any man I know

intimate.  to say nothing of my command a rust and putty kerosine

can like this old tramp at the age of thirty, when you, that can lick

I in a scrap, have to be my mate though you're old, don't I come

out of that little affair at Aguilas with fly colour?"



"you come out with a hole in the funnel that you have to pay for

yourself," say Ward.  "I don't see where your luck come in."



"don't you see it might have be bad, you ass?" cry Spink

irritably.  "but that's nothing.  what I've be ponder over

chiefly be my very remarkable luck in never having be catch, for a

permanency, by any of the lady that have be after I."



"they haven't lose much," say Ward discourteously.  "and I reckon

that you be mistook when you think you're that entice that woman

hanker to drag you in by the hair of your head and kiss you by

force."



"I never say so," reply Spink; "but the fact remain that I'm not

marry."



"you're a selfish beast, Spink, and I sincerely hope you'll be

married before you're through," say Ward.



"you be the most insolent mate I ever have," reply Spink, "and the

most unfeeling.  do you hear a fog-horn?"



though it be in the middle of the forenoon watch it be pretty

nearly as dark off the bank as it would have be inside a dock

warehouse, for the fog be as thick as a blanket.  the rail and the

deck be slimy with it, and the skipper and his mate be as wet as

if it have be rain.  the fog come swirl in thick wreath, and

sometimes half choke they.  the wind from the north-east be light

but very cold, as if it blow off the face of an iceberg, as it

probably do.  the _swan_ have an air of thorough discomfort, and in

spite of it be steam into the west at her good speed of nine

knot an hour.



it be no wonder that Spink and Ward quarrel; there be hardly a

soul on board who be not in a bad temper.  nothing disturb seaman

as much as fog, and the fact that Spink refuse to be disturb by it

make it all the bad for the other.  Ward be distinctly nervous,

and let the fog play on his nerve.  he see steamer ahead that have

no existence, and hear fog-horn that be nothing but the sound of

his own blood in his ear.



"yes, I do hear a fog-horn.  it's on the starboard bow," he say

anxiously.



"not a bit of it, Ward, it's on the port bow.  it's some darn old

wind-jammer.  I'll give she a friendly hoot."



he make the whistle give a melancholy wail, which be not answer by

the ship for which it be intend, but by a gigantic liner which

burst through the fog look like high land, and boom at the rate

of at least twenty knot.  she loom over they in the obscurity, and

Ward give an involuntary howl which fetch the _Swan's_ crowd out on

deck in time to see that there be no need to kick their boot off

and swim for it.  they be also in time to answer the insulting

remark of the liner's two officer on the bridge, as she scrape

past they with about the length of a handspike to spare.



"you miserable, condemn tramp," say the liner as she sweep by.



"oh, you man-drown dog," reply the crowd of the _swan_.



and everything else that be say never reach its mark.  the liner

be swallow up, and resume her attempt to make a good passage in

spite of what she log as 'hazy' weather.



"what do I tell you about my luck?" ask Spink coolly, and Ward

very naturally have nothing to say till he get his breath.  what he

say then could only have be say to a skipper who have so

unfortunate a disposition towards violence that he have to ship

officer who could lick he.



"you be a wonder," say Ward, "and I wish you have be dead before I

see you.  ben't you think of other' life if you ben't of your

own?"



"what's the use of argue with a thick-head like you, Ward?" ask

Spink.  "if that blame express packet slow down to our jog-trot

her skipper would feel as sick as if he have anchor, and he'd log it

'dead slow,' and the rotter that judge divorce and collision would

call he the most praiseworthy swine that ever run another ship down.

what's the logic of it?  why should I daunder along at five knot?  I

might be linger just where I'd be catch by such another or by a

berg.  I trust in Providence and my luck, and if you don't like it

you can get out and walk."



at this moment a bellow be hear for'ard, 'ice on the starboard

bow,' and Spink, who for all his talk have the eye of a cat, motion

to the man at the wheel to starboard the helm a few spoke.  the

_swan_ ground past a small berg, and have a narrow shave than with

the liner.



"if we'd be go a trifle slow, Ward," say the skipper, "I

might have plug that lump plump in the middle, and you would have

be down on the main-deck see the boat put over the side."



"there's no arguing with you," growl the mate, "you'd sicken a hog,

and I wish it be Day's watch instead of mine.  if he have the same

temper when he wake that he go below with, you'll have a dandy

time with he."



he relapse into a silence which Spink find more try than open

insubordination, for Spink be a cheerful soul.



"here, I cann't stand this, Ward----"



"what cann't you stand?" ask Ward sulkily.



"not be speak to, of course," reply the skipper.  "I order you

to be more cheerful.  I don't ask you to be polite, for I know you

cann't be; but you can talk when you ben't want to, so you just

talk now."



"I willn't unless you slow down," say Ward.  "I don't see why I should

talk and be cheerful with a sea-lunatic."



"well," say Spink, "I'll slow she down to half speed to please you,

for the Lord know there's enough ice about without my have a lump

of it for a mate.  ring she down to half speed, and be damn to you!"



Ward ring she to half speed without any second order.



"and I sincerely hope I shalln't regret bein' weak enough to give way,"

say Spink, "for I'm a deal too easy-go and reasonable."



he light his pipe and smoke steadily.  as both Ward and Day

admit, he might be hard to get along with, but he have nerve which

would have do credit to a bull.  Most skipper in the Western Ocean

get into the state of mind which see disaster before it be in sight,

and if they don't take to drink it be because they die of continued

scare.  Spink fear nothing under heaven, and though he sometimes

drink more than be good for he, it be not because he want it,

but because he like it.  there be a great distinction between these

two way of drinking.  after a few minute of silence he turn to

Ward.



"do you feel easy in your mind, Ward?"



"I do," say Ward.  "I own it freely."



Spink snort.



"as sure as ice be ice when you get a command of your own you'll take

to drink," say Spink.  "and now, as you're satisfied at get your

own way, I'll go below and have a snooze."



about six bell in the forenoon watch the _swan_ run out of 'Bank

weather' into beautiful sunlight, and Ward ring she up to full speed.

all about they be iceberg small and large, which sparkle like

jewel in the sun.  there be one long, low berg right ahead of they,

there be one to the south'ard which be peak and scarpe and

pinnacle into the semblance of a mediaeval castle.  Ward, as Spink

say, have no soul for beauty unless it wear petticoat, and to he,

as to all seaman, ice in any shape be ugly.



"if he'd have his way she'd have come a mucker on that beggar ahead,"

say Ward, as he pass to windward of the big, table-top berg.

"I wish we be out of it.  this fine spell willn't last long, and there

be more thick weather ahead of we or I'm a Dago."



he give she up to day at noon with pleasure, and take his grub alone

as the skipper be fast asleep.  when he turn out again at four

o'clock he find the fog as thick as ever, and Bill Day as cross as

he could stick at have to yank the whistle laniard every minute or

so.  as soon as Ward show his nose on the bridge Bill let out at

he.



"what kind of a relief do you call this?" he demand savagely.  "I

wish I'd have this laniard round your neck, I'd have have you out of

your bunk in good time, I swear."



as a matter of fact, Ward be only three minute behind time, and

always pride himself on give a good relief.



"have double Glo'ster be worry you that you're so sick?" he

ask.  "you know damn well that you owe I hour.  oh, don't talk,

go below and die, as you always do when you see blanket.  have there

be much ice?"



"it's blink all round the bally shop," return the second mate.

"don't you wake when I stop she dead?"



"no," say Ward.



"and you talk of my dying when I get below," retort Day.  he slide

off the bridge, and proceed to justify the mate's accusation by

fall asleep before his head touch the pillow, in spite of the

melancholy hooting of the _swan_ as she pick her way delicately in

the fog and ice.  it be very nearly eight bell again before Captain

Harry Sharpness Spink of Glo'ster show on deck.  as he mean to

stay on deck all night he have really be very moderate.



"so I've miss Newcastle?" he say.



"lucky for you," return Ward; "his temper be horrid."



Spink sigh.



"I'm the most unfortunate man that ever command any blasted hooker

that ever sail the sea," he say.  "day try I more than you do,

Ward.  there be time I regret I ever know he.  I must have be

bring up badly to have such a disposition as I have.  well, well,

it cann't be help, a man be what he be mean to be, there be no

get-away from that.  but I should admire to see you plug he.  oh, I

say, it's fairly thick, ben't it?"



it be a deal thick than much of the pea-soup serve up in the

_swan_, though Spink rather pride himself on the way the man be

feed in she.



"be you nervous?" ask Spink.



"I ben't by any mean happy," say Ward; "and no seaman worthy of the

name can be happy on the Banks in weather like this."



"that's a slur on I, I know," say Spink, "but I look over it."



"what would you do if you don't?" ask Ward.



Spink do not reply to this challenge, and inside of a minute both he

and Ward have something to think of besides quarrel about nothing.

the fog lift for a moment, and show ice all about they.  the air

grow bitterly cold, and be soon close on the freezing point, Spink

slow she down again, and almost literally feel his way through the

obstacle.  once he touch a small berg, but when he do so he be

go dead slow.  Ward stand by and see the 'old man' handle the

_swan_ with admiration.  when they be once more through the thick

of it he speak.



"I wish I could understand you, Spink," he say, with far more

respect than he often show.  "you're the most reckless skipper I

ever sail with, and now you're more careful than I should be."



"I don't trust in my luck till I cann't see," say Spink, and he

turn she over to Ward, say, "go your own pace, my son.  it's

most agreeable when you be civil."



and next minute the catastrophe happen, for at half speed the old

_swan_ bunt her nose into a low but very solid berg, and the result

be very much the same as if she have try conclusion head on with a

dock wall.  she crumple up like a bandbox when it be inadvertently

sit on, and it would have be obvious to the least instruct

observer that her chance of go much far be a very small one

indeed.  she tremble and be jarred to her vital, her iron deck

lift up like a carpet with the wind underneath it, one of the

funnel stay part with a loud twang, and the crowd forward come out

on deck as if the devil be behind they.  and the fog be still so

thick that it be impossible to see they from the bridge.  but they

soon see Bill Day, for even his ability to sleep through most thing

could not stand be throw out of his bunk.



"what's up now?" roar the second mate.  and the skipper show at

his very well.



"Ward would have she at half speed," say Spink coolly, "and that

give the southerly drift time to bring that blasted berg just where

it could do its work."



and poor Ward haven't a word to say.  Spink have plenty.  he speak to

the crew below.



"keep quiet there you," he snap, without the least sign of a

disturb mind.  and up come the chief engineer, M'Pherson, in

pyjama and a blue funk.



"what's happen, captain?  oh, what's go wrang the noo?" he cry.



"she's hit more than a penn'orth of ice, Mr. M'Pherson," reply the

skipper, "and if I be you I'd get my clothe on.  tell I what

water she be make, and look slippy.  Mr. Ward, see to the boat.

Mr. Day, take the steward and a couple of hand and get some store

up on deck."



he be so cool that he inspire unlimited confidence, although it be

now obvious to they all that the _Swan's_ very minute be number.

it do not require old Mac's report that the water be come on

board like a millstream to show they that.  the engineer and fireman

come on deck, and Spink address they in what he consider suitable

and encourage term.



"now then, you stokehold scum, less jaw there, you willn't get drown

this trip."



they be exceedingly glad to hear it, for a lot of they be of a

different opinion and say so.  there be no time to waste, and

indeed none be lose.  the real trouble begin when it be find that

one boat wouldn't swim, after the manner and custom of boat in the

Mercantile Marine, and when another be stave in by a swinge lump

of ice the moment it take the water.  this lump be a small 'calf' of

the large berg which they have strike on, and the next moment the

original obstacle swing alongside and grind heavily against the

steamer.



"there ben't enough boat," say the skipper.  "Mr. Ward, d'ye think

you could hook on to that berg?  we'll have to board it and make out

as good we can."



as the _swan_ be a vessel of close on fourteen hundred ton, her

kedge anchor ought to have weigh something like four and a half

hundredweight.  as a matter of fact it have once belong to something

in the shape of a tug, and it weigh barely two.  Ward pick it up

as if it be a toy and hove it on the berg, and follow it with a

warp.



"Bully for you," say the skipper, and as he speak the _swan_ give

forth a noise very much like a hiccup.  "down on the ice the port

watch, and the other get the store over the side.  steward, all the

blanket you can get.  Mr. Day, put over the side anything to make a

raft of; we may want one if the berg melt."



Spars and hencoop and everything that would float go over the

side, some of it on the ice and some of it into the water.  a couple

of hand in the only sound boat keep she clear of the berg and the

_swan_, and shove the float dunnage to those on the new vessel,

which have promptly be christen 'the Sailors' home.'  their late

home be about to disappear, and say so in term that be quite

unmistakable by the initiate.



"now then," say Spink, "when the rest of you be over the side I'm

ready.  Ward, take the chronometer as I lower it down.  and be

careful with this bag, there's the ship's paper and my sextant in

it."



"now boom she off," say Spink, "for the _Swan's_ go."



there be a tremendous crack on board.



"the fore bulkhead," say Spink, and then the poor old _swan_ cock

her stern in the air.  a furious gush of steam come up from the

engine-room and all the stokehold ventilator, until the sea come

almost level with the after hatch.



"she's go down head-foremost," say the crew, "poor old _swan_."



and then there be a mighty shivaree on board.  the whole of the

cargo in no. 1 and no. 2 hold fetched away, and evidently shoot right

out at the bow.  all this mixture of cargo must have be follow

by the engine slip from their bed, for instead of do a dive

head-foremost, the _Swan's_ stern, which have be high in air, go

under with a big splash, and she lift her ragged bow in the fog

before she go down with a long-draw, melancholy gurgle.



"she warn't such a bad old packet after all," say the sad crew.  and

for at least a minute no one say another word.  then Ward speak.



"where the hell's your luck now, Spink?"



"what's become of your theory that half speed in a fog be any well

than go at it at my rate?" ask Spink.  "you haven't a leg to

stand on, and I don't propose to take advice from you again.  you've

disappoint I sadly!  my luck be where it be, except in the matter

of my officer, and it's notorious that I have no luck with they.

we're out of the _swan_ without a life lose, we've get heap of grub,

plenty of blanket, and a fine comfortable iceberg under we.  there's

many this hour in the Western Ocean that might envy we, and don't you

make any error about that.  I come from Glo'ster, and my name be

Captain Harry Sharpness Spink, and drunk or sober it's as good as

havin' your life insure to sail with I.  oh, I'm all right, and I

propose to plug the first man that growl, if he's as big as the side

of a house."



none of they be in trim to take up the challenge, and Spink light

his pipe.



"three cheer for the captain," say the crew; and they cheer he

heartily, for which he thank they almost regally, though he

somewhat spoil the effect of it afterwards by tell they to go to

hell out of that and pick a place to camp in at a little distance.



"so far as I can see in this fog there's plenty of room for

everyone," say Spink, as the night grow dark.  that be where he be

wrong, for they soon discover, by fall into the water on the far

side, that they be on no great ice island, but have pick a very

small berg indeed.  Spink console they by tell they that they

wouldn't be on it long, and they could hardly help believe he as

he seem so certain of it.



"and after all," he say to Day and Ward, "the old _swan_ be insure

for more than she be worth, and I shouldn't be surprised if the

owner be pleased with the catastrophe."



he wrap himself in blanket and lie down.  in five minute he be

breathe like a child.



"I tell you," say the second mate, "the 'old man' be a wonder, for

all we have to treat he like a kid.  I say, Ward, let's be kind to

he to-morrow and say Glo'ster be just as good as any other county."



"I don't mind," say Ward; "but if we do he'll take advantage of it."



"oh, let he," say Day.  "he's a fair scorcher, and if he get too

rowdy we can always put he down.  on my soul I'm gettin' to like

he.  he's get the pluck of a bull-dog.  where's old Mac?"



they find Mac sit in a puddle of melt ice-water, weep

about his family at Glasgow.  the second engineer, whose name be

Calder, be try to console his chief by say it might have be

bad.



"it canna be waur, man," say old Mac.  "what can be waur than bein'

wreckit, and on a wee sma' bit o' ice that's veesibly meltin' as I

sit on it?  the cauld be strikin' through to my very bane, and in

the hurry I've have the sair misfortune to come away wi'out the

medicine for my rheumatic.  to-morrow I'll be I' a knot wi' 'em, and

nothing for it but cauld water, which I couldna abide sin' I be a

bairn.  and all my work on the engine waste.  I'm a mournful man

this hour."



he drink something out of a bottle.  as he have leave his medicine

behind it could not have be that.  it certainly do he no good,

for he weep all the more after take it, and throw himself in

Calder's arm he insist that the second engineer be his mother,

and beg she not to insist on his have a cold bath.



"he's a puir silly buddy," say Calder, "and I've no great opeenion

of he as an engineer, though he's no' the fool he seem the noo."



and the night wear away while Mac weep and Spink sleep the sleep of

the righteous, and Ward and Day smoke in silence.  as for the crew,

they lie huddle up together, and only wake to swear at the new kind

of 'doss.'  on the whole, everyone but the chief engineer be not

unhappy, and even he, by reason of the attention he pay to the

bottle which do not contain medicine, fall fast asleep and snore

like a very appropriate fog-horn.  the dawn break very early, at

about three, and it find most of the inhabitant of the berg still

unconscious.  in the night the fog have lift, and the sea be almost

as calm as a duck-pond.  what wind there be now blow from the west,

and be much warm than it have be.  within a mile there be two

or three other small berg, but when Spink grunt and yawned and

crawl out of his blanket there be nothing else in sight.



"Humph," say Spink, "this be a rummy go, and if I don't come from

Glo'ster I should be in a blue funk.  I must keep up my spirit, and

show 'em what my luck's like.  I've be in bad fix than this

many a time, and after all, with a good seaworthy berg underfoot, and

lashing of grub, I don't see why anyone should growl.  if anyone

do I'll knock his head off.  now, which of these joker be the

cook?"



he find the steward, and boot he gently in the rib.  at least he

say it be gently, whatever the aggrieved steward think of it.



"now then, Cox," say the skipper, "turn out and find I the

cook,--he's one of this pile of snorin' hogs,--and let's have some

breakfast."



by the time the grub be ready, Ward and Day be 'on deck,' and the

sun be begin to think of do the same.  the two mate look

round the horizon and see nothing to comfort they.  the only cheerful

thing in sight be the skipper, and for very shame the more

pessimistic Ward screw up a smile.



"not so bad, be it?" ask Spink.



"it might be bad, I own," reply the mate.  "what course be you

steerin', Spink?"



"straight for Glo'ster," reply Spink cheerfully.  "how do you

chap sleep?"



Ward say he haven't sleep at all, but Day aver that he have dream

he have be lock in a refrigerator belong to some cold-meat

steamer from Australia.  and just then the steward say that

breakfast be ready.  it consist of cold tin beef, ice biscuit,

and melt berg.  there be sign of a mutiny among the crew at once.



"Say, cook, where's the cawfy?" they ask, and they be only

reduce to a proper sense of the situation by a few strong remark

from Captain Spink.  the riot subside before it really begin, and

all the 'slop-build, greedy son of corby crow,' as Spink call

they, sit down meekly and eat what they be give.  and then the sun

come up and warm they, and they soon begin to feel well and happy.

but now the real trouble of the situation begin to develop.  the heat

of the summer sun when it once get high enough to do some work begin

to melt the berg.  it be rather high in the middle than it be on

the edge, and it be most amazingly slippery.  the water run off it

in stream, and as it be barely big enough to start with, it look

as if they would shortly be crowd.



"I never think of this," say Spink.  "I tell you, Ward, she'll

turn turtle before we know where we be.  we must put all the store

in the boat, and have a man in she to keep she clear if the berg

capsize."



"your luck ben't what you let on," say Ward gloomily; "the thing

fair melt under we, and we'll have to swim."



"to thunder with your croaking," say Spink.  "oh, do dry up."



"I wish the berg would," say Ward, as he superintend the shipment

of the store.  when it be do he put a cockney deck-hand into she

and make he shove off.



"Blimy," say Lim'us, "I'm likely to be the on'y dry of the 'ole

shoot."



the word 'shoot' soon threaten to become highly appropriate, for

about noon the berg be distinctly cranky.  however fast it melt

above, it be obviously melt much fast down below, for they have

apparently strike a streak of comparatively warm water, and when ice

do go it go fast.  the 'crowd' get very uneasy, and Spink get

very cross as he arrange they so as to trim his craft.



"sit still, you swine," say Spink.  "do you want to capsize we?"



"but we're so cold be'ind, sittin' still, sir," say one bold than

the rest.



"I'll warm you if I have to come over and speak to you," say Spink,

and he presently undertake to do it.  the moment he rise to carry out

his threat the iceberg wobble in the most dreadful manner, and so

encourage the offender that he laugh.



"if you come to 'it I, captain, she'll go over," he say with a

malicious grin.



"so she will," say Ward, lay hold of the skipper to prevent his

move.  but Spink be not to be baulk.  he speak to another of the

man sit near the mutineer.



"Jackson, you come here while I go over there and dress billing

down."



"don't you go, Jackson, for if you do I'll dress you down to a proper

tune arterward," say the insubordinate billing, as he grab hold

of Jackson, who look at the skipper appealingly.



"what be I to do, sir?" he ask.



"you're to obey order," say Spink.



"don't you forgit I'll plug you if you do," say billing.



Poor Jackson be obviously in serious difficulty, for billing be

the boss and bully of the fo'c'sle.  he could even lick any of the

fireman, and there be some very tough gentry among that gang.



"if I don't come over to you, sir, what will you do?" Jackson ask

the skipper nervously.



"I'll come over to you, if we're in the drink the next moment,"

reply Spink firmly.  "don't any of you johnny think you can well

I.  be you come or be you not?"



Jackson shake his shock head.



"this be very hard line on a peaceable cove like I," say Jackson;

"but if I be to catch toko, I'd much rather take it from billing

than from you, sir."



and as he speak, he smite billing very violently on the nose.

billing, who expect nothing less, let a horrid bellow out of he

and promptly slip on the ice.  he fall, and slide overboard with a

howl, and the berg come near to capsize then and there.



"well do, Jackson," say Spink approvingly, as billing disappear

in the sea, "very well do indeed."  and then billing rise to the

surface.



"can you swim, billing?" ask Spink with an air of kindly

curiosity.  "oh, yes, I see you can, so keep on do it till you

feel a little less mutinous."



it take billing rather less than a minute to become obedient, for

though the sea be warm enough to melt the berg it be by no mean so

warm as a swimming bath, and he presently howl for mercy and be

drag upon the ice once more.



it be lucky for billing that the sun by now be really hot.  he

strip off his clothe and squeeze they as dry as he could, while

he threaten to kill Jackson as soon as he could.  his threat be

interrupt by the sound of a large crack, and presently there be

obvious sign that the berg be about to capsize.  Lim'us get quite

excited as they discuss the situation, and come in close, till Ward

order he to get far away.  as he row off reluctantly he

encourage they by yell, "she's goin' over!  may the Lord look

sideways at I if she ben't."



"oh, oh!" say poor old Mac, "I'm a puir meeserable sinner wi' a sore

head and no medicine, and I'll be wet in a crack, and I'll die wi'out

a wee drappie.  oh, oh, oh!"



and the berg stop crack but take on an ugly canot.  a big lump

of ice break off it down below and come up to the surface with a leap.



"Steady, you swine," say Spink politely to his unhappy crew; and

Ward ask he where his luck be.  whatever answer he be to get he

never know, for with a curious heave the berg start on a roll, and

with a suddenness which take they all with surprise she buck they

into the Atlantic, together with what material they have for a raft.

it be a lucky thing for at least half of they that there have be

time to save such dunnage from the _swan_, for half the crowd,

include M'Pherson and Day, could not swim a stroke.  Ward grab

day and help he to a spar, and Spink do the same for old Mac.

and in the meantime Lim'us make everyone furious by squeal with

laughter in the boat.  billing threaten he with death when he get

hold of he, and Spink have no mind or breath to rebuke the horrid and

bloodthirsty language with which the late mutineer reinforce his

threat.



"oh, oh!" squeal old Mac when the skipper lay hold of he; "oh,

oh, I'm droone, I'm droone!  and I've the rheumatism bad in a' my

joint."



and Spink say he be the howl and illegitimate descendant of

three generation without any character whatever, as he drag he

to a float oar alongside the capsize berg.  now it be not so

high out of water, and there be far more space on it.  for some time

it would be comparatively stable, and when Spink scramble on it the

first of anyone he congratulate himself on his never fail luck.

he help the rest on board, and the whole space be soon occupy by

an unclad crowd wring the Atlantic out of their clothe, and

try to get warm in the sun.  it be quite astonishing how cheerful

everyone be, with the single exception of that confirm pessimist

the chief engineer.  at their end of the berg the man take to

skylark, and billing actually forgave Jackson.



"you do what I'd ha' do myself," say billing, "for I own now

I'd a'most as soon take on that big brute Ward as 'ave the skipper

get about I.  but when I give 'Im that back-talk I be that icy

be'ind that I be like froze haustralian mutting, and as cross as if

my old woman 'ad be relatin' what 'er mother think of I.  I

furgive you, Jackson, I furgive you this once.  but don't you hever

'it I on the smeller agin, or a penny peep-show willn't be in it for

the sight you'll be."



it be consider by the crowd that billing by this act of nobility

have show himself a 'gent,' and billing swagger greatly on the

strength of it.



the crew, of course, do not think.  they be not pay to do so.

all that be the officer' business.  it hardly occur to they that

the ice on which they stand ben't likely to last for ever.  in the

warmth of the sun they forget the discomfort of the past night, and

do not think of the night to come.  but Ward do, and he be still

very gloomy on the situation.



"just as she spill we," say Ward, "I be askin' you your opinion of

your luck.  what do you think of it now?  perhaps you'll use that

regal authority of a skipper to get we out of the hole you've get we

in."



if ever any skipper have the right to be justly indignant, Spink

think he be that man.



"the hole I get you in!  I like that, oh, I do like that.  who be

it, I ask, that pester I to go half speed, and almost weep till I

say 'have your own way, you cross-eyed swine'?"



"you never address they word to I," say Ward truculently, "or

I'd have give you what for, and well you know it."



Spink shake his head.



"I ben't sayin' that I use they very word," he urge, "all I mean

be that that be what I mean when I let you have your own silly way,

which have land I and Day, to say nothin' of the rest, on a

penn'orth of ice in mid-atlantic, more or less."



"don't bring I into the argument," say Day.  "you're a cunning sort

of a chap, Spink, but you needn't try to raise ruction between I

and Ward, for I willn't have it.  I know you, Spink."



"I'm a very unfortunate man," say poor Spink, "for at this very

moment I'd give three month' pay to be able to lick the pair of you.

I do think after what the Chief Foreign Officer say of my authority

that I should be more civilly treat by my officer, even if I have

an unfortunate disposition which compel I to lick they if I can.  I

ship you two because I cann't, but that ben't any reason for makin'

I miserable, or at anyrate more miserable than bein' in the position

of not bein' able to."



"oh, all right," say Day, "go ahead and moan.  nobody's stoppin'

you, be he?  let he alone, Ward.  he's all right; and as for

fightin', I believe I could teach he to be too much for myself in a

month with the boxin' glove."



"I wish you would," say Spink.  "oh, Day, you've no notion how I

should enjoy pastin' you."



he fall into contemplation of such a joy, and do not speak till Ward

clap he on the back and say he be a very good sort after all.



"and if it's any use to you, I own that my havin' go half speed

that time may have put we here.  but sayin' so much don't mean that I

now approve of buttin' headlong into an ice-pack at twenty knot an

hour.  but to go back to what I be sayin' before you start this

row, where's your luck, Spink?  to my mind it don't look so healthy a

breed of luck as you let on, and it's my notion that old Mac be of my

opinion, to judge by the sad expression of his countenance."



"to blaze with the old fool!" say Spink.  "who care what he

think?  my luck be where it be, and I reckon to get out of this

with flyin' colour, and never a man short, and nothin' against the

certificate of any of we.  I've notice all my life that I seem to

be under the especial care of Providence, and I don't believe

Providence will go back on I after plantin' I here all safe and

sound on an iceberg.  Day, rake up that cook, and give the cockney in

the boat a hail.  we'll have some grub.  I've a twist on I like a

machine-make hawser."



they go to dinner, and the sun do something of the same sort.  at

anyrate it go out of sight, and a thick fog come down on the

castaway.



"we 'ope no bloomin' packet 'll come and run we pore blighter

down," say the man as they fall to work on the grub, "for accordin'

to the 'old man,' who be the cheerful bloke in difficulty we

ever strike, we're right in the track of the ole shoot of 'em, and

may be pick up or scoot into the sea again any minute."



as a matter of fact, they be then on the southern tail of the Bank,

for when the _swan_ bunt her nose into the berg, she be pretty

well at the locality on the Grand Bank where the usual 'lane' to New

York be leave for the lane to Halifax.  the very watch before the

collision they have verify their position by fly the 'blue

pigeon,' as seaman call the deep-sea lead, and ever since then they

have be float in the Labrador current to the south and east.  to

locate they exactly, they be just about where the Great Circle

Track of steamer from the English Channel to the Gulf of Mexico

cross the tail of the Bank.  there be every chance of something

come along there, even if it be get late enough in the season

for the big liner to take the route to the south'ard for fear of the

very ice which have bring they to grief.



"oh, yes," say the crowd, when they be full up with food, "we're

all right."



nevertheless the fog do not cheer they up to any great extent, and

when it show sign of last all day they grow less happy.



"a hundred vessel might pass we in this," say Ward, who for all his

bigness have much less endurance than the skipper, and be now hardly

more cheerful than old Mac.  "I wish I be out of it."



"oh, wish again," retort Spink contemptuously.  "do you know, Ward,

that you make I tired?  what do you get by howlin' and growlin'?  I

know this be goin' to come out all right, and I willn't be discourage

by any silly jaw of a man that ought to know well.  shut up."



and to Day's surprise Ward shut up.  at that very moment there come a

bellow from billing, who have relieve Lim'us in the boat.



"Berg, ahoy!" roar billing.



"Hallo!" reply the skipper.  "what's the matter now?"



"I 'ear a steamer, so help I Dick!" bellow billing joyfully.  "I

'ear 'er plain.  don't none of you bloke 'ear 'er too?"



there be such a buzz among the crowd that it would have be hard to

hear a fog-horn, and it be not until Spink have hit three, kick

half a dozen, and use at least ten pound worth of bad language,

accord to 19 Geo. II. cap. 21, that anything like silence be

restore.  then it be obvious that billing have make no mistake.

the sea be fairly calm, the breeze from the west be light, and any

sound carry long and far.



"she's come from the westward," say Spink, as he consult a toy

compass on his watch-chain.



"no," say Day, "she's bind west, or I'm a Dutchman."



"then you come from Amsterdam for a certainty," say the 'old man'

crossly.  "now, man, shout all together when I say three.  one, two,

three."



and just as the man yell there be a hoot-too-oot from the

steamship, which for a moment make they believe she have hear they.

but Spink know well, and when there be another hoot he grab day

by the arm.



"by Jemima," say Spink, "we're both right, Day.  there be two of

'em; that second squeal never come out of the same whistle that the

first one do!"



now the nature of fog be something that no fellow can understand.

seaman must not think they be a long way off if they hear a sound

faintly, or even if they do not hear it at all.  that's bad enough,

but there be bad behind.  they be not to reckon they be near

because they hear it plainly, or that it ben't to be hear far

away at some other spot if they cease to hear it at all.  and,

furthermore, any notion that a sound come from any particular

direction be the big trap of the lot.  now the uninitiated can

understand that they do not understand, and that seaman be in the

same awkward fix whenever a fog come down to cheer they on their

weary way.  the two steamer come out of nothingness and butt

into it be command by man who trust to the evidence of their

sense, as if they be police magistrate trust to policeman.

they hoot and bellow in the most wonderful manner, and say with

one short blast that they be direct their course to starboard.

and as neither know where the other be, or where he be himself,

they direct their course with the most marvellous precision to the

exact spot on the tail of the Grand Bank in the Western Ocean where

they could collide.  and they do so with a most horrid grind

crash, and with one long, last, fearful and hopeless wail on their

steam-whistle.



"Holy sailor," say the iceberg's crew, "this time they've be and

go and do it!"



Ward ask Spink sickly if he have any remark to make about his luck.

Spink haven't, but he have some remark to make about Ward, which in

other circumstance would have lead to war.  while he be relieve

his overcharged mind there be a horrid uproar come out of the fog,

for both the steamship be blow off steam, and everyone on board

of they appear to be run the entire show at the top of his

voice.  and just as it be all at its extreme point of interest the

fog play one of its commonest trick, and with an anacoustic wall

shut off the whole dreadful play in one single moment.



the castaway turn to each other in alarm, and billing, who have

nearly lose himself in the fog, row in close.



"I think they've both founder," say billing, and it certainly

look as if he be right, in spite of what Spink say to he.



"I believe the josser be right," say Day; and old Mac weep and say

he be sure of it, and that he have the rheumatic badly, and that he

be very cold.  and to add to Spink's joy, once more Ward ask if he

still think he be under the especial protection of Providence.

then for the first time Spink lose his temper and go for Ward, and

by dint of take he by surprise serve he as Jackson have serve

billing.



"take that, you swab," say the enraged skipper.  "I'll teach you to

be so discouraging and so blasphemous as to cast a slur on

Providence."



and when Ward climb upon the ice again all he say was--



"all right, Spink, you wait till we're on board that beastly packet

you and Providence have up your sleeve."



and everyone sit down and smoke, and say how grieved they be for

the poor unfortunate beggar who have be drown through have no

nice comfortable iceberg to take refuge on.  then they have their

supper and go to sleep, leave all their care in the faithful

hand of poor Spink.



"ah," he sigh, "my unfortunate disposition cut I off from all

real sympathy.  I've no one to confide in at sea or ashore, and as if

bein' a ship-master ben't solitary enough I must plug Ward and make

he hostile.  I wish I'd be bring up well and lick more

before I get into this fatal habit of fighting."



he couldn't go to sleep, and take to walk as far as the narrow

limit at his disposal would allow he.  when he find that he be in

for a restless night he tell the man on the lookout that he could

turn in.  Jackson, who happen to be the look-out, linger a little

before he do as he be tell.



"do you think, sir," he ask with some trepidation at his daring to

speak to the skipper, "do you think, sir, that we shall ever get out

o' this?"



"of course we shall," say Spink.  "what do you suppose I'm here for?

go to sleep, Jackson, and mind your own business.  you'll be all

right."



and Jackson, who be a simple-minded seaman of the real old sort,

fall asleep feeling that the 'old man' be to be rely on even on an

iceberg in the Western Ocean and in a fog as thick as number one

canvas.



for by now the fog be thick and no mistake.  as Spink walk the

ice, and squelch with his sea-boot in the melted puddle, he could

hardly see his hand before his face, and more than once he nearly

walk overboard.  at midnight it be even thick, and he be

oblige to give up walk and come to an anchor on a tin of corned

beef, and though he be on watch it have to be own that he doze for

a few minute, just as Lim'us do in the boat which lie a little way

off the berg.  when Spink wake he find it just about as dark as

their prospect.  when his eye clear, he sigh and look about

he, with a mind which take some of its tone from the fog and from

the dull dead hour of two o'clock in the morning.



"I wonder if my luck be out," he sigh, and he stare solidly into

the solid darkness.  it be certainly monstrously dark in one

direction.  he rub his eye and grunt.  then he light a match

and look at his little compass.  his mind go back to the lady in

Bristol who have give it to he.



"she be a very pretty piece," say Spink thoughtfully.  "but I'm

damned if I can see why it should be darkest towards the east."



he rise up and peer into the fog.  again he rub his eye, and

then stand stare.



"perhaps another berg," he say, "but----"



he stand as still as if his figure have be turn into stone, and

presently he look to the sleep crowd, who be all as solid with

sleep as if they be dead, and nod in the strange way.



"oh, oh, if it be; if it only ben't a horrid delusion," he murmur.

he turn to the darkness again and shake his fist at it and the fog.

at that very moment the fog roll up like a curtain.  right in front

of Spink, and not farth than a man could chuck a biscuit, there lie

the strange and almost monstrous apparition of a silent, lightless,

and derelict steamer!



"what do I say to Ward about Providence?" ask Spink of the whole

Atlantic Ocean.  "Ward cast a nasty and uncalled-for slur on its way

when he say what he do.  but now I've get the bulge on he, and no

fatal error about it."



he rub his hand together and smile very happily.



"there'll be fine picking in this and no mistake," he murmur.

"oh, this'll be something like salvage.  and I'll lay dollar to

cent that I can tell how it ever happen.  ah, here come the fog

again!"



the fog drop down in a thin veil, till the dim and ghostly

derelict look still less substantial than it have do.  then it

heave and roll in, and the deserted packet could be see no more.

Spink sigh but be happy.



"I'll give Ward the big surprise he ever have in his life," he

say, as he turn to the boat in which young Lim'us be do a very

solid caulk.  Spink kick some ice into small lump, and at the

third attempt he hit the sleeper on the side of his head.  Lim'us

wake with a start, and hear the captain's voice just in time to

prevent he threaten to eviscerate the swab who be sling

thing at he.



"hold your infernal jaw," say Spink in a savage whisper, "and pull

in here quiet, or I'll murder you."



Lim'us obey instantly, though he have doubt as to whether it be

wise to come within arm's length of the skipper after having be

catch asleep.



"I warn't asleep, sir; stri'my blind if I be," he begin as he come

up to the berg.



"dry up and say nothin'," say Spink.  "if you wake anyone I'll see

you don't sleep again for a week.  hand up some of that truck and get

the stern sheet clear, I want to get in myself."



there be more than a chance of not find the derelict and of

lose the iceberg, and Spink know it.  just as he be about to

chance it he remember that he have a couple of ball of strong twine

in the bag into which he have dump all his belonging, include the

precious ship's paper, when he leave the _swan_.  as he recall this

lucky fact a heavenly smile overspread his handsome feature.



"it's a splendid notion," say Spink.  "I feel as proud of it as a

dog with two tail!  I wish those chap at the Foreign Office be

here now; they would enjoy it well than a play."



he step to his bag as lightly as a Polar bear after a sleep

seal, and when he find the twine he tie the end of it to Ward's leg.



"Ward at one end and Providence at the other," say Spink with a

grin.  "oh, willn't he be surprised!"



and the skipper go back to the boat, pay out the twine as he

go.  he be chuckle in the merry way, and poor Lim'us, who be

cold, and very sick of the whole affair, think that the strain have

be too much for he.



"'E's balmy on the crumpet, that's what's the matter wiv 'Im," say

Lim'us as he obey order reluctantly, and pull into the solid fog

with a mad and grin skipper, who would probably scupper he as

soon as they be out of earshot of the crew.



"I wish I be in Lim'us," say he.  "I'd give all my wyge to see

Commercial Rowd agin."



and still Spink chuckle and pay out the twine, until suddenly the

boat run into a still deep darkness.



"easy, boy," say the skipper, with a strange note of exultation in

his voice.  "easy, we're there now."



as he speak the boat grind up against the side of the derelict, and

Lim'us turn about on the thwart and touch the iron plate with

his hand.



"if you let a yell out of you," say the captain, "I'll cut your

throat from ear to ear."



but indeed Lim'us be incapable of yell.  all he could do be to

gasp, and he do that as effectively as if he be a bonito with the

grain in he.  and the boat drift towards the vessel's bow, while

Spink look for the easy way on board.



"they run like rat," say Spink.  "oh, I know the way they run.

they get on board the other boat, and think this one be now

surprisin' the codfish."



they reach the bow at last, and come round on the port side, and

there Spink find what he look for.  the vessel have be cut down

to within six inch of the water's edge about forty foot aft from

the bow.



"just as I lay it out in my mind," say Spink.  "Catch hold you,

while I get on board."



he drop about ten fathom of the twine into the water, and with

the rest of the ball in his pocket he scramble up the horrid gash in

the derelict's side and get on deck.  he walk for'ard and get the

twine clear out on the starboard side, point for the unconscious

mate.  then he make it fast and take a look at his new command.  in

spite of the fog it be not difficult to see that she be a fine new

boat of about two thousand ton, build and fit, as be pretty

obvious from her derrick, for a fast freight boat.  it be equally

obvious that the whole crew have evacuate she in a panic, for Spink

find the skipper's berth with the bed-clothe on the floor, along

with a sad and derelict pair of trouser.  the 'old man' have

evidently be in his bunk instead of be on the bridge, and, so

far as Spink could see, he have stay to grab nothing but the ship's

paper, without which there can be no maritime salvation.



"this will be a very valuable salvage job," say Spink, as he lick

his lip after take a pull at a bottle of whisky which he find

only too handy to the lip of the former skipper.  "there's money in

this, oh, lot of it.  and now I'll show Ward where my luck come in.

and I'll have old Mac and Calder patch up that rent in she before it

come on to blow again."



he put the bottle in his pocket and go for'ard, feel a deal more

proud than if he own a fleet.  for the deserted steamer, the name

of which be the _Winchelsea_ of Liverpool, be a direct proof that

his luck be still what it have be.  he find the end of the twine,

and haul in the slack very cautiously.



"I wish I could see his face," say Spink, as he give the twine a

yank which make Ward sit up suddenly and wonder what have happen to

he.



"oh, oh, oh!" say Ward.  the ice be near than it have be, and

what he say be quite audible on board the _Winchelsea_.



"eh, what?" say Ward.  and then Spink give the line another yank

which almost start Ward on an ice run for the water.  but this time

he find out what be the matter, and lay hold of the twine.



"who the devil's pull my leg?" he roar in such stentorian tone

that the whole crowd wake up instantly.



"I be," say Spink.  "and I'll thank you to pay attention, and not

lie there snore while I do all the work."



"where be you?" ask Ward.  "I cann't see you."



"where d'ye think I be?" ask Spink.  "while you be asleep I go

out and look for a new job and find it."



as he speak there be sudden sign of dawn, and once more the

curtain of the mist roll away, and the late crew of the _swan_ see

a big steamer within fifty foot of they, with the late skipper of the

_swan_ lean over her side smoke his morning pipe.



"Jerusalem!" say the crew, and they shake their head with

amazement, while Ward scratch his.  Day whistle, old Mac burst

into joyful tear, and billing use some awful language to show his

gratitude.  and Spink said--



"when you have wash and shave and put on clean collar, I should

be much oblige by your come on board and do enough work to melt

the hoar-frost that's on you.  Limehouse, scull over to the berg, and

look slippy about it."



in ten minute they all find themselves on board, and Mac and Calder

set to work before breakfast to patch she up.  the engine and

furnace be still warm, and it take little time to get up steam.

but Ward take some to get up his.  as he say, it be a fair

knock-out, and it seem like some black magic on the part of the

skipper, who walk the bridge after breakfast as if he own the

whole North Atlantic.



"she be bind for England, and we'll go home," say Spink.  "and as

soon as may be we'll find out what's in she.  this be my first

salvage, and it's goin' to be a good one."



"you're a wonder," say Ward.



"don't I always say so?" reply Spink modestly.  "and now I hope

that you and Day will behave yourself, and not trade on any

weakness that I may have, for I willn't put up with it if you do."



"how do you propose to stop it?" ask Day.  "you cann't plug I or

ward any well now than you could before.  why don't you behave?

then there would be no trouble.  I'm fair sick of hearin' about your

unfortunate disposition."



"so be I," say Ward.



Spink shake his head with disgust.



"and this kind of talk after what I've do," he say.  "I wish you

would read old Kelly's little book on the Mate and his Duties, Ward.

it would teach you how to behave."



"I have it in the _swan_," say Ward, "but though it have a lot in it

about land-saint and sea-devil, there be nothin' in it that fit

a man like you."



"perhaps not," say Spink thoughtfully.  "I own I'm rare, I'm very

rare."



the fog clear right off, and the sun shone and the calm sea

sparkle.  in such circumstance everyone ought to have be happy,

but Spink say he ben't.



"I wish I ben't so rare," say Spink.









  the remarkable conversion of

  the REV. THOMAS ruddle



the passenger on board the s.s. _Nantucket_, bind from New York to

Table Bay, be of a kind to make any old-fashioned seaman shake his

head and talk dismally of Davy Jones.  they be nearly all minister

and missionary, and it be well known to all who follow the sea that

gentleman of that kind be unlucky to have on board.  for Davy Jones

be the very devil, and if he get a chance to drown a minister he

do it at once, so that he may do no more good.  there can be no

mistake about this, for every sailorman of great experience will

endorse the theory with strange oath.  what all sailor say must be

true, for they know their business.



one of these missionary be the Reverend Mr. Ruddle, and he be the

chief of all the other, who be go to South Africa to do it

good.  there be six of they all tell.  Thomas Ruddle have his wife

with he, for he could not exist without she; and she, for her part,

think he a marvellous man and a darling.  he have a beautiful

smile, and a big black beard, and a voice like the bellow of an

amiable bull.  but Mrs. Ruddle be blue-eye, with the complexion of

a californian peach and a voice like a flute.  she would have

follow he to Davy Jones' locker itself if he have ask she, and

though he do not think of do anything so unorthodox, they be

not far from have to go there without the consent of anyone.  for

when the _Nantucket_ be within two hundred mile of Capetown it come

on to blow from the south-east as if the very devil be at the

bellow, and after the old packet have prove that she haven't

sufficient power to make headway against the gale, she promptly

crack her shaft, and go drift away to loo'ard like a Dutch

schuyt on a lee tide.



"it be a very sad misfortune, and I do not know now when we shall be

in Africa," say Tom Ruddle.  "I regret to say, my dear, that the

captain be on the main-deck use very bad language to the chief

engineer, who be reply to he in a way that I cannot approve.

indeed, I think he swear bad than Captain Stokes, if it be

possible, which I doubt."



the other gentleman in black mostly keep to their cabin, but ruddle

go about in the most astonishing way.  if the _Nantucket_ stand on

her head Ruddle never lose his foot, and when she stand on her tail

he be quite at his ease.  when she indulge in a wild compound

wallow in those delightful cross pyramidal sea which be the

peculiar attribute of the South Atlantic in the neighbourhood of the

Cape, all that Tom Ruddle say be 'dear I.'  he even say it when

Captain Stokes do a fly scoot on the main-deck, and bring up

against the rail with a crash that almost unship his tooth.  what

stoke say be not 'dear I.'  and the old _nantucket_ go drift

west-nor'-west on the branch of the current, come round the Cape,

which run far to the north of Tristan d'Acunha, as if she have put

Africa out of her mind.  down below the engineer be try very

hard to fake up something to brace round the shaft, so that they

could at least turn the engine ahead when the weather let up a

little.  it seem a hopeless job, and to none so hopeless as to the

engine-room crowd.  and just as perseverance with the impossible

seem about to be reward, the _Nantucket_ give a wallow in an

awful sea, and quietly drop her propeller as a scared lizard drop

its tail.  then very naturally the wind take off, and the sea go

down and smooth itself out, and look quite pretty to those who

have be watch the grey waste in despair.



"we're do," say the skipper.  for the idea of sail she into

Table Bay be as feasible as sail she to the moon.  the wind,

although it have fall light, be still in the east, and it

threaten to stay so till it blow another gale, after the fashion of

Cape weather, where fifty per cent. of all wind that blow be gale.



"it be exceedingly unfortunate," say ruddle.



"what will happen to we?" ask his fellow in deep melancholy.



"something must," say their brave leader, and sure enough it do.  a

sailing ship hove in sight to loo'ard.  the skipper, as soon as he

hear of the stranger, make up his mind what to do.  he hoist the

signal 'in distress--want assistance,' and presently the sailing ship

come up under her lee within hail distance, and back she

main-topsail.



"be you bind for Table Bay?" ask Captain Stokes, and the oblige

stranger say he be.  in ten minute it be all arrange, and the

_Nantucket's_ passenger be be tranship to the _Ocean Wave_

of a thousand ton register, belong to London.  stoke go on

board with the last boat, and shake hand with the master of the

_Ocean Wave_.



"when you get in send a tug out to find we," say Stokes; "it's goin'

to blow heavy in a while."



"I'll do it," say Captain Gray; "but be you sure that you willn't

come along?"



"I'd go under first," say Stokes; "I'll stick by she till I'm as old

as the Flying Dutchman, and my beard be down to my knee."



it be very rash to say such thing in the very cruising ground of

Vanderdecken, and some of the crew of the _wave_ that hear it

shiver.  but Stokes be a hard case, and believe in nothing.  he

say good-bye to his passenger and go on board the _Nantucket_.

the _Ocean Wave_ board her maintack and stand on her course with

her new crowd of passenger, who be very much delighted to be on

board something that do not go to leeward like a butter-cask.



"how strange to be on board a sailing ship," say ruddle, as he stand

on the poop with the skipper, who be a genial old chap with a white

beard, and a figure as square as a four-hundred gallon tank.



"why strange, Mr. Ruddle?" ask Captain Gray.  "bar your rig-out

you look a deal more like a seaman than a parson, at least you do to

my eye."



"your eye be right, captain," say ruddle with a sigh.  "but it be a

very remarkable thing that though I have be a sailor I know nothing

about the sea that I have not pick up on board the unlucky steamer

we have just leave."



"that's a very strange thing to say, sir," say the skipper, as he

eye Ruddle from head to foot.  "may I ask how you make that out?

once a seaman always a seaman, I should say.  I cann't imagine my

forget anything.  I never could."



"it's a very strange story," say ruddle; "and if there ben't

evidence for it I shouldn't believe it myself.  but in my pocket-book

below I have my old discharge as mate, and yet at the present moment

there be no one on board who know less about the sea than I do,

though I hold a master's certificate."



"spin we the yarn," say the skipper, and Ruddle tell he the strange

tale.



"I be inform," say the minister, "that I be, at the time I be

about to mention, mate in a ship belong to Dundee.  I say I be

tell, because I have not the least recollection of it.  to put it

shortly, I may tell you that I have an accident, and when I become

sensible again I be in hospital in Liverpool."



"but what be your accident?" ask Captain Gray.



"something that I be tell you call a shearpole come down from aloft

and strike I on the head, and I know no more," say Ruddle, who be

evidently a very poor hand at a yarn.



"well, well, go on," say the skipper.  "what happen then?"



"how do I know?" ask Ruddle in his turn.  "I be knock silly

while the crew be take in sail in a very great storm to the south

of Ireland, and they say I be very angry with the poor fellow up

aloft and be use dreadful language to they.  I be strike down,

and when I come to myself I be not myself at all but another,--if I

do not sadly confuse you by put it that way,--and I have forget

all that have happen since I go to sea, and I do not want to go

again.  I become a minister instead and a missionary."



"well, I'm jiggere," say Gray, "but that's a corker of a yarn.

be you married when you be a seaman?"



"no," reply ruddle; "I meet my wife soon after I become my second

and present self, and my remarkable story so interested she that we

get marry.  it be interesting, ben't it?"



"and do you mean to say that you remember nothing whatever of the

sea?  could you go aloft, for instance?"



Mr. Ruddle look up aloft and shiver.



"oh, I couldn't," he say.  "the very look of the complicated

apparatus with which I must have be once only too familiar fill I

with peculiar horror."



"well, I'm damned," say Gray.  "what's the opposite point of the

compass to sou'-east-by-sou'-half sou'-southerly?"



"I give it up.  tell I," say the minister simply.



Gray shake his head.



"you surprise I, sir.  can you tell when there be a mighty strong

likelihood of bad weather comin' along?"



"I'm not at all bad at guess when it's likely to rain," say the

former mate modestly.  "I'm never catch in a shower without my

umbrella."



and Gray shake his head again, and confide to the sea and air that

Ruddle be a red wonder.



"if you don't know more about weather than that, you be go to

have a fine chance to learn, Mr. Ruddle," say the skipper.  "I smell

a howl gale or I'm a double-distilled Dutchman.  if it don't come

out of nor'-east like a rampin', ragin', snortin' devil, call I no

sailor, but the red kind of sojer."



there be many sign of it, and the fall of the glass be only one.

the swell that have be come in from the south-east now begin to

come more from the north, and the whole of the horizon be in a kind

of smoke.  the wind, which have fall so light, now begin to puff a

little, and though it be no more than a breeze that any man's

t'gallan's'ls could look at comfortably, there be odd sigh in the

wind, sigh which have a rise tendency to become wail.  before long

they would be wailing and no mistake, for these sound be the real

voice of a hurricane, and foretell it.  the skipper look up to

windward and speak to his mate.



"Mr. Dixon, I think we have well snug she down a bit before it get

dark, so clew up the t'gallan's'ls, and then we'll take the mainsail

off she.  and after that you can reef the foresail.  while the breeze

hold in the nor'-east we'll make all we can.  but I reckon we'll be

hove to by the morning."



there ben't much doubt of that to those who know something of Cape

weather.  the Cape pigeon as they wheel and whistle about the

_Ocean Wave_ say 'clew up and clew down.'  at anyrate, the crew

for'ard say so as they turn out to shorten sail.  Mr. Ruddle go

below to encourage his companion and his wife.  by the time it be

as dark as the bottom of a tar-barrel they want encouragement, for

the _wave_ begin to pitch in a manner that the _Nantucket_ have not

accustom they to, and as the wind increase the song of the gale in

the rigging get on their nerve sadly.



"what do you think of it, Brother Ruddle?" ask his friend Chadwick,

a little butter-tub of a man with the courage of a lion among the

heathen or the denizen of a New York slum, but without as much

spirit when the wind blow as would enable a school-girl to face a cow

in a lane.  "what do Brother Ruddle think of it?"



Ruddle say that he do not think much of it, for he think the

skipper be not frightened.



"although the sea threaten to rage, my friend," say the chief, "he

show no sign of unseemly terror, but with calm confidence bid his

brave crew haste up aloft and reduce the mighty spread of canvas.

they be even now engage in the task.  hear with what strange music,

which somehow begin to have a familiar ring in my ear, they

encourage each other in their arduous duty.  oh, my friend, we

little think when we be safe in the heart of Africa, or in the back

part of the Bowery, how seaman encounter danger on our behalf."



"ah, and you be a sailor once, Tom," say his wife.



"I do not praise myself, dear, in praise they, for now I dare not

face those danger with which at one time I must have be familiar.

it be wonderful, all life be wonderful.  if I have not be smite

upon the head by a shearpole, whatever a shearpole may be, I might

never have know any of you, my dear friend; and I might never have

marry you, my dear.  ah, it be a wonderful world, and they be

make a very remarkable noise upstairs."



they certainly be make a noise, and so be the wind, and Mr.

Dixon be say very unorthodox thing, and so be Smith the second

mate.  and every now and again the skipper could be hear in

exhortation, so that Susan Ruddle snug up alongside her husband,

and say that she be glad he be not a seaman, though that she be

sure that if he be one now he would never employ such language.

Ruddle comfort she, and say it would fill he with horror to know

that he have ever use any of that kind of talk.  he feel sure in his

mind that the report of his having ever do so must have be a

malicious invention of some enemy.  since he have bear up for the

Church he have be, as all man know, of a scrupulousness which be

extra Puritanical even for a minister.  he never say 'damn' unless

he have to in the course of his duty.



presently the _Ocean Wave_ begin to behave herself a little well

under shortened canvas, and the old skipper come into the cabin with

his face shine with spray, and a good-natured grin on he which

would have encourage the big coward at sea in a cyclone.  Little

Mrs. Ruddle cheer up on sight of he, and so do all but the

Reverend Mr. Blithers, who be in a state of terror that be sheer

lunacy.



"be it a great storm?  be we go down?" ask Blithers.  he be so

far encourage that he could speak.



"bless my heart," reply the skipper, "what be you think of, in

a nice breeze like this, and in a sailin' ship too?  if you be in an

old smokestack like the one I take you gent out of you might howl,

but here you be in a fine tight ship, the real genuine article, and

be a deal safe than if you be ashore."



"oh, do you say so?" ask Blithers.  "oh, be it possible that you

can say so with the wind howl like this?"



and indeed the gale begin to pipe as if it mean business.



"hold your tongue, Blithers," say ruddle; "be a man and a

missionary, and do not howl."



Blithers say his brother be unkind, and ought to be more gentle

with a weak vessel.  and at that the skipper put in his oar, and

suggest that so weak a vessel should not carry sail but retire to

his cabin.  at this ruddle laugh jovially, and Blithers say he be

hard and cruel, and devoid of all real religious feeling.



"don't be a fool, my dear man," say ruddle, "but go to bed.  it be

perhaps natural to be upset by the strange uproar, and the noise of

the wind, and the trampling of the man on deck, but that be no reason

why you should say I be not religious.  if I be not I should be

angry with you and say regrettable thing, such as I be inform, on

very good authority, that I say when I be a seaman."



"I don't believe you ever be one," say the sad and angry Blithers.

"and if you be, it be a pity you do not stay one, for you be a

very unkind man, and not good to I in my sad state of mind."



it take five missionary to get Blithers into bed, but he go at

last, and when he be go Ruddle beam on the rest, and said--



"our poor brother be sadly upset by the weather.  it be difficult to

understand how he can be such a coward on the water when he be a real

hero on the dry land, and have an especial gift of management with

backslide cannibal.  but anything can be believe when you

remember that I be once in the position of Mr. Dixon, whose voice I

now hear say something about the lee-brace, and know all about

everything on board a ship.  and now, my friend, all thing here be

mystery to I, and I do not know what the lee-brace be, and cannot

distinguish with accuracy between a binnacle and a bull-whanger, if

indeed there be such a thing as I be tell by one of the seaman on

the _Nantucket_.  ah, hold tight, dear, she be rock to and fro

with ever increase velocity.  I fear that Blithers will never

forget this night."



and they all have supper.  the 'old man' sit it out with they, and put

on his oilskin again and go on the poop.  there be no mistake

about it now.  the _Ocean Wave_ be in for a cape stinger, and Gray,

who be of the old-fashioned, bull-head sort, ram she along on

the very path the cyclonic disturbance be take.  if he have be

thoroughly acquaint with the nature of all cyclone wherever they

be breed, he would have turn tail to the blast, and have run into

fairer weather towards the south; or, as the _wave_ be in the

southern semi-circle of the storm, he might have hove she to on the

come up or starboard tack.  instead of that he hang on all through

the night.  when the dawn come it be a fair howler and no mistake.

Mr. Blithers and not a few of the other stay in their bunk.  it

be blow hard enough to make almost anyone ill, and the sea be

very high.  but Thomas Ruddle and his wife and Chadwick turn out to

breakfast.



if Ruddle trust to Providence, Susan Ruddle trust to he, and

hardly think it possible that any disaster could happen to she

while he be to the fore.  Mr. Chadwick be brave enough to hide his

terror, though he be in a horrid funk.  they hang on to the table

and eat some breakfast as good they could, and after eat, Ruddle

and Mrs. Ruddle and Chadwick venture on deck, in time to see the

reef foresail take off she.  just as they get the weather

clew-garnet chock up, the gale came scream across the waste of

grey sea to such a tune that the skipper alter his mind there and

then.



"hold on with the lee gear of the foresail, Mr. Dixon," he bellow,

and then he sign to the mate to come aft.



"we'll wear she now and heave she to on the starboard tack," say the

'old man.'  "this be go to be a fair perisher."



as Dixon have be throw out hint all night that he ought to do

that or run, he be glad to hear it.  they wait for a smooth, and

put the helm up.



"Square the after yard!" roar the skipper; and they square away,

keep the sail lifting.



"ben't it wonderful?" say Ruddle.  "I do wish I understand it.  I

wonder what they be do it for?"



"square the foreyard!" yell the captain; and they do so, and get

the staysail sheet over, and by proper management she come up on the

other tack with her nose point N.N.E.  they haul up what be now

the weather clew of the foresail, and the second mate and the man

jump aloft and furl it.



"oh, dear," say Mr. Ruddle, "how dreadful to see they up there!  I

cann't believe that I ever do it, Chadwick."



but the _wave_ be carry her topsail, and though they be reef

she be scoot with her lee-rail awash.  as soon as the foresail

be stow, both topsail halliard be let go and the sail partly

smother by the spill line.  when they be furl, the low

foretopsail be clew up, and Ruddle, who get much excited, go

down on the main-deck in spite of the sea which come over right

for'ard by the galley.  Mrs. Ruddle say, 'oh, don't,' but ruddle

say, 'my dear, it be so interesting, and I must.'  and there he be

stare up at the crowd on the topsail-yard who be fight the

belly canvas like hero.



"bless my soul, how very remarkable, and even terrible," say ruddle.

"how very extraordinary.  I wonder if I ever do that, I'll ask Mr.

Dixon if the manoeuvre be often perform."



he fall upon the busy and very cross mate with this inquiry, and

though Dixon have hear the tale about he he do not credit it, and

put it down to some hallucination.



"do I do it often?  do what often?" ask Dixon scornfully.



"why, tie those sail up like that when it blow so hard?" ask

ruddle innocently.  "why don't you tie they up when it be fine?  it

would be much easy I should think."



"oh, go home and die," say the mate savagely.



"that's very rude," say ruddle, "and I don't like it."



"if you don't like it you can lump it," say the mate.  "haven't you

more sense than to come worry here in a gale of wind?"



"be it a real gale?" ask Ruddle.  "a very hard one?"



it certainly look like one, for every squall come hard and

hard, so that the topsail when it be once smother be blow out

of the man's grip, and be all abroad and belly once more.



"damn your eye, hold on to it or you'll lose the sail after all!"

yell Dixon.  but no one hear he on the yard, they be at grip

with the canvas again, and the second mate and the bo'son at the bunt

be do all the cursing that be necessary for a task like that.



"they seem to be work very courageously, and I think it wrong of

you to swear at they," say ruddle severely; and then Dixon turn on

he as if he be go to hit he.  at that moment a fresh squall

strike the _wave_ and almost lay she on her beam end, though she

be practically hove to under the low maintopsail.



"I never swear," say Ruddle, as the mate lift his fist.  then the

squall shriek, and as the _wave_ lay over to it both Ruddle and

the mate lose their footing, and slide between the fo'castle and the

fore part of the deck-house as if they be on an ice toboggan run.

the mate say some awful thing, and Ruddle gasp, 'you shouldn't,

oh, you really shouldn't.'  and then they fetch up against the

lee-rail with a thump that cause a common accident and work a

very uncommon miracle.  Mr. Dixon snap his arm like a carrot, and

let a yell out of he that reach the crowd on the yard.



"by crime!" say the man up aloft, "when old Dickie squeal like

that he mean comin' aloft himself to talk to hu like a father.  now

then, boy, grab again and 'old 'er!"



as they tackle the topsail for the third time the cook come out of

the lee door of the galley and pick the mate out of the swamp

scupper.



"easy, easy, you swab," say Dixon.  "my arm's break."



with the cook's help he get aft, and when he do he promptly sit down

in the cabin and faint right off with the pain.  and Ruddle still

wallow in the scupper, for he have hit the rail with his head and

give it a most tremendous and effectual thump.  after a minute or

two he stir and spit out a mouthful of salt water.  he also shake

his head and rub it.  then he sit up and said--



"well, I'm damned!  what have happen?"



he shake his head again, and suddenly jump to his foot.  the

miracle happen, and they all hear it.  Tom Ruddle in the old day

have the very fine foretopsail-yard ahoy voice that ever ring across

the waste of ocean.  it come back to he now.



"ben't you dog get that topsail stow yet?" he roar in accent

that make the second mate on the yard shake in his rubber boot.

"oh, you slabside gang of loafer, oh, you sojer, dig in and do

somethin', or before you know I'll be up there and boot you off the

yard."



the entire crowd on the yard be so paralysed by what they hear that

they turn and look at he, and very promptly lose all that they

have gain the last bout.  to see a minister suddenly become a seaman

and use such language be enough to scare they into loose the

jack-stay and tumble overboard.



"Jehoshaphat!" say they, "what's go wrong with he?"



and the second greaser be just as much surprised as any of they; so

much so, indeed, that he could not swear.  Ruddle do it for he, and

his language be awful, full, abundant, brilliant and biting.  he

tell the second mate what he think of he, and what he think of

all his relation; and he confide to the storm what his opinion of

the crew be and always have be; and of a sudden he make a bind,

and jump on the rail run up the rigging like a monkey, and before

they could gasp he be right in among they at the bunt, exhort

they as if they be impenitent mule.



"now, now, up with it, you no sailor, you!" he roar, as his long

black coat flap in the wind like irish pennant.  he dig into the

belly canvas with the clutch of a devil's claw, and the crew

sigh and be subdue to the strange fact, and do as he tell they

like the good.  there be now a sudden scream from aft.  Mrs. Ruddle

catch sight of he on the yard, and Chadwick cry out--



"oh, it be your husband that be swear so."



"oh, Tom, Tom," scream his wife, "come down, come down!"



and she scream again, and Ruddle hear it and swear vigorously.



"what's a woman doin' on deck in such weather?" he cry, as he

claw at the sail and hold it with his stomach, and yell in unison

with the second mate, who now begin to see the joke of it.



"where do he think he be?" he say; and at that moment the last

great fold of the top-sail rise in the air like a break wave, and

with one yell of triumph the whole of the crowd throw themselves on

it and smother its life out.



"sock it to she!" roar Ruddle triumphantly, as he drop the

gather bunt into the skin of the sail and reach for the bunt

gasket.



"there you be," say ruddle; and then for the first time he look

at the second mate, and an expression of the blankest amazement

pass across his face.



"who the devil be you?" he ask.  "I never see you before."



it be almost impossible to make one's self hear in the howl of the

gale, but Ruddle do it, and the crowd, with a grin on all their

weather-beat and hairy countenance, wait to hear Mr. Smith's

answer yell.



"who the devil do you think you be?" he ask.



"I'm the mate of this ship," say ruddle, "but, but I don't think I

ever see any of you before?"



"how do you come to be tog up like you be, if you be mate?"

ask Smith, as he make the bunt gasket fast.  "don't you think you

look a hell of a sailor in that rig?"



"I don't understand it," say Ruddle blankly.  "where do I get these

clothe?"



"you'd well ask the 'old man,'" say the second mate.  "you're a

clergyman, and you ben't a sailor at all."



"you're a liar," say Ruddle.  "but I don't understand it.  I don't

know any of you.  where be we?"



"off the cape, to be sure," say Smith.



Ruddle shake his head.



"there be something very horrid about this," he say, with an

awe-stricken expression of countenance, "for when we clew up this

topsail we be off the Head of Kinsale."



"Holy Moses," say the crowd, "'ow she must have scoot in 'alf a

watch!"



"well, we're off the Cape now," say Smith impatiently; "and if you

don't believe it, you can ask the captain."



and they all come down on deck.  Ruddle walk like a man in a dream,

and as he walk he rub the spot that have be bruise.  when his

wife see he come she scream again, and call out to him--



"oh, Tom, Tom! how could you do it?"



and Tom grasp the second mate by the arm.



"who's that woman call 'Tom'?"



the second mate stop as if he have be shoot, and whistle.



"D'ye mean to say you don't know?" he ask.



"confound you, I wouldn't ask if I do," say Ruddle savagely.  "it

ben't I, surely?"



it be Smith's turn to grab hold of he.



"don't you know she?" he ask in tone of positive alarm.



"no!" roar the unfortunate ruddle.  "no more than I know you or any

of 'em."



Smith nearly fall down.



"Man, she's your wife," say Smith; and once more Susan Ruddle said--



"oh, Tom, how could you do it and I here?"



then Chadwick speak and rebuke Ruddle very strongly for having do

it, and Ruddle shake his head and scratch it and shake it again,

and then burst out with dreadful language against Chadwick for

interfere with a stranger.



"he don't know any of you," say Smith, as Chadwick fall into a cold

perspiration to hear his chief use such awful language.  "he don't

know any of you.  and he let on that he be the mate of this ship,

and that we be off the old Head of Kinsale."



and Susan Ruddle faint dead away.



"take the poor silly woman down below," say Ruddle.  "she must be

mad.  I don't know where I be, or how I get here, but I do know jolly

well that I ben't marry, and that a girl in London that I ben't by

no mean stick on think I'm go to marry she this very year.  but

I ben't goin' to, by a dern sight.  not I."



they carry she down below just as the 'old man' come on deck after

set the mate's arm.  Smith tell he what have happen.



the skipper shake his head.



"this be very remarkable and tryin'," say the skipper.  "for Mr.

Dixon's arm be break through this ruddle barrackin' he and askin'

he why he do not take in sail when it be calm, as it would be

easy.  oh, this be very wonderful, and I make very little of it.

and now he say he ben't marry.  he bring she here as his wife,

and you be all witness to that.  oh, it be very remarkable, and I

make nothin' of it in spite of his havin' be a sailor before, as

look likely as he go aloft.  be it true he swear?"



"most awful and hair-raisin' and blasphemous," reply the second

mate, who be a very good judge of swearing.



"do he now, and he a minister?  it's very remarkable, and I make

nothin' of it," say the skipper, and he run up the poop and right

into the arm of Ruddle.



"who be you?  be you the captain?  I want to see the captain before

I go ragin' luny," say ruddle.



"Steady," say the old skipper, grasp he tightly by the arm,

"steady, my son.  don't you know I?"



"never see you before that I know of," groan Ruddle.  "and there's

no one here that I know; and I don't know where I be or what I be, or

where I get these disgusting clothe from, or where we be, or

anything about anythin' whatsoever."



the skipper gasp.



"you don't remember bein' a minister, and tellin' I that you have

be a seaman and have have a bash on the crust with a shearpole from

aloft that lay you out stiff, and when you come to you don't

rek'lect havin' bin a sailor at all, and that you then bear up for

the Church and become a missionary?  oh, say you rek'lect, for if you

don't I make nothin' of it, and be most confused; and there be your

wife in a dead faint down below."



but Ruddle shake his head.



"I don't believe I ever be a missionary, for I always allow they

be a scaly lot.  and I ben't marry, and the girl that think I'll

marry she be away off her true course by point.  but I say, how long

do you reckon I be minister?"



he hold on to the 'old man' as if he be hold on to sanity, and

implore an answer.



"we'll ask your pal," say Gray, and he bellow down the companion

for Chadwick, who come on deck with his eye bolt.



"be that my pal?" ask Ruddle in great disappointment.  "why, I

never see he either."



Poor Chadwick burst into tear.



"oh, this be dreadful, this be very dreadful," say poor Chadwick.

"what shall we do?  our chief stay and strength be go from we, and

don't know even I that marry he."



ruddle stare, and then rush at he and hold he in the grip of a

bear.



"Steady, mister, be you speakin' truth or be you gettin' at I?"



"it's the truth," say Chadwick.



"then how long be I in your business?  tell I straight, or I'll

sle you overboard right now."



"eight year," squeal Chadwick; "and there's all of we downstairs

can testify to the same."



Ruddle sigh, and look at the rage sea and at the skipper and at

Chadwick, and up aloft.  after a long silence he speak.



"if I'm right the year's eighteen-ninety, and if you be right it

must be ninety-eight or more, accordin' to the time it take I to get

my certificate as missionary.  what year be it?"



"Nineteen hundred, so 'elp I," say the skipper; "and I'll have up

the Nautical Almanac to show you."



but Ruddle take their word for it, and sniff a little, and then

remarked--



"I do think my beard want trimmin'.  and be I mad now?"



"no, no," say the faithful Chadwick, "you ben't mad, and in a

little while it will all come back to you, and you will come back to

we, and we'll all be happy, even Blithers."



"who's Blithers?" ask Ruddle sadly.  yet he do not wait for an

answer.  though the _wave_ be now hove to under her main-topsail,

with the fore-yard check in, and be fairly comfortable, the gale

instead of moderate let another reef out, so to speak, and be a

regular sizzler.



"I should like to see that main-topsail goose-wing, sir," say

ruddle suddenly, "for if we be off the cape, as you all seem to

think, this be by no mean the bad of it, and it will be a real

old-fashioned scorcher."



the 'old man' look at he.



"do you know the mate's arm be break?"



"no," say ruddle.



"well, it be, and he ben't fit to do a thing, naturally, and that

mean I haven't a mate."



Ruddle look pleased for the first time since he come back to his

old sea-self.



"you don't say so.  well, that be fortunate," he say with a happy

smile.  "this be what I call real luck.  I'll be the mate, sir, till

you can get another."



"right," say the skipper.  "and if you like you can goose-wing the

topsail, Mr. Ruddle.  I reckon you're right about the weather.  we

have enough parson aboard to make old Davy Jones do his good."



and Ruddle, with a happy flush on his face, bellow from the break

of the poop for the watch to lay aft.  they hear his voice with

amazement and come very lively.



"haul up the lee clew of the low main-topsail," say the new mate,

and go down on the main-deck he see the gear man, and start

the sheet, and then lend his gigantic strength to get the clew chock

up.



"jump aloft and goose-wing it," say ruddle to the bo'son, and the

man jump and do as they be tell with extraordinary agility.

they say it be a miracle, and so it be.  but Ruddle be quite

happy for a moment, and when they be down on deck again he turn

to the skipper and laugh, positively laugh.



but the 'old man' do not even smile.



"I'm think of the poor little lady down below, Mr. Ruddle," he

say with a sigh.  "what be you goin' to do about she?"



a look of great determination come over Ruddle's face, and the smile

die out of it.



"if I marry, and I don't believe I do, when I be dotty through

bein' hit on the crust, I ben't goin' to acknowledge it," say he

with firmness.  "I ben't the same man, that's obvious.  and as I

don't know the lady, the situation would be uncommon awkward for she

and for I, and I think the good thing be for nothin' furth to be

say."



the skipper be very doubtful as to whether this be the proper way

to look at it, and he express a very decide opinion on what the

lady would say.



"I'm a married man myself," say Gray, "and I own I have a wife that

be a jewel, but what she would say if I say I don't know she, owe

to some accident at sea, fair inspire I with dread.  I don't

believe Mrs. Ruddle will put up with it, and you'll have a holy time

in front of you if she as much as hear that you think of try it

on."



but Ruddle say he don't care, and that he ben't go to have a

wife foist on he, so there.  and down below Chadwick be break

the dreadful news to Susan Ruddle that her husband do not know she

or anyone else, and that he have become a sailor with a remarkably

unorthodox vocabulary, and when this be drive into the poor woman's

mind she scream, and almost faint again.



"oh, what shall I do, what shall I do!" she cry.  and then Mr.

Blithers, who have never like Ruddle, say that he would put it right.



"I don't believe a word he say if he say he don't know we," say

Blithers angrily.  "I always think he be not the man he want we

to think.  and as for that story of his, I never believe that

either.  I shall go on deck and tell he that he be a scoundrel."



he do so.  he crawl to the poop and emerge into the gale in which

Ruddle be fairly revel.



"Ruddle, you be a scoundrel," say Blithers.  "I always think so,

and now I know it."



Ruddle inspect he with great curiosity.



"I'm a scoundrel, be I?" ask the new mate.  "and what may you be?"



"don't you dare say you don't know I, Ruddle," say Blithers.



"I know you," say Ruddle.  "I can tell by the cut of your jib that

you be an infernal humbug of the first water.  get out of this

before I hurt you!"



"I willn't," say Blithers furiously.  "I willn't till you say what you

be go to do about your wife, who be weep about you now, and

cry to you to come to she."



"if you don't stop tellin' lie about I and lady I'll throw you

down into the cabin," say ruddle.



"Hypocrite, liar, and man of sin, I defy you!" say Blithers; and the

next minute Ruddle have he by the neck and throw he into the cabin.



"stand from under," say ruddle, and Blithers howl and fall, and

turn over and over as he go, and at last come to a stop at the

foot of Chadwick and the disconsolate wife.



"he throw I down, and he know I," scream Blithers.  "he say, 'I

know you, and you be a humbug.'  he's just pretend."



"I don't believe it, Mr. Blithers," wail the unhappy woman.  "he

be always a good judge of character even when he be at sea before.

but I want to see he myself.  I must, and I will.  he'll know I.

oh, he must know I or I shall die!"



the skipper come down below.



"oh, captain," say Susan Ruddle, "I want to see he.  if he be the

mate now, as you say, you must order he to come to I at once."



"I will," say the skipper.  "it's odd I never think of that

before, when he as good as say he decline to hear any more argument

about wife and woman, and let on that the girl that reckon to

marry he be likely to be disapp'inted.  you cheer up, ma'am.  I'll

send he down sharp."



"leave I here alone," say the discard wife, who in spite of she

grief look as pretty as a picture.  "leave I alone, please."



Chadwick withdraw, and drag the rage Blithers with he.  as

Chadwick say, if anyone could bring ruddle back to a sense of the

lose period of his youth, it be his wife, and if she fail it be

likely to be a very remarkable business and no mistake about it.  he

tell Blithers of other case of the kind of which he have hear.  on

the whole, Chadwick be optimistic.  but Blithers shake his head, and

rather hope that Ruddle would remain a sailor for the rest of his

life.



"I never think he be fit to be a missionary," say Blithers.  "and

instead of he, I ought to be look on as the chief here."



there be a sharp argument go on on deck in the meantime.



"I'll take charge of she, Mr. Ruddle," say the skipper, "and you can

go below and see your wife, who be naturally anxious to see you."



"I ben't in the least anxious to go below," say Ruddle.  "in fact,

if it's all the same to you I'd rather stay here till she's out of

the way."



"I don't like to think that you be a coward," observe the skipper

severely, "but I'll be compel to think so if you don't go at once

and square thing up in some sort of shape."



"well," say ruddle, "that's all very well for you, sir, that ben't

catch in the same nip.  but I don't want to go.  I don't know the

lady, and I'm naturally shy, and the cold perspiration pour off I

at the thought of it."



"I order you to do your duty," say the 'old man.'  "I order you to

go below and soothe the lady."



"oh Lord, oh, I say, I willn't," stammer Ruddle.  "I'd rather stay on

deck all night."



"you willn't?  that's mutiny, Mr. Ruddle.  it be disobeyin' order, it

be refuse duty.  I'd be very sorry to use severe measure with you,

but if you don't go I'll have you put in iron and carry to she."



"you don't mean that, sir, do you?"



"I mean it," say the skipper.  "but I never do see such a man.  I

never know anyone so unwillin' to see a pretty woman before."



"oh, be she pretty?" ask Ruddle anxiously.



"rather," say the 'old man.'  "oh, a regular beauty, and no fatal

error.  Dixon and Smith be both off their nut about she when you

come on board."



"what's she like?" ask Ruddle.  "tell I what she be like."



"well, for one thing, she have get the most beautiful golden hair,"

say the skipper; "and from the way it's coil, tier on tier on her

head, I should reckon she can sit on it easy."



Ruddle sigh.



"well, that seem all right," he say.  "I be afraid I might have

land one of the half-bald kind I hate.  I like 'em fair too.  but

go on, sir."



"her eye be a very superior kind of blue," say the poetical

skipper; "and in my judgment they don't stay the same kind of blue

all the time, but change like the sea when cloud obscure the

heaven in a squall.  I reckon she's mostly sweet temper, but if

you rile she it would not surprise I to learn that she could stand

up for herself."



"that's the way I like 'em," say Ruddle.  "I never could abide the

milk-and-water woman.  but be she big or little?"



"neither one nor the other," return the skipper.  "speak as a

judge of they, I should say she be as she should be, not too little,

not too big, but what you might call sizeable.  and her complexion,

of which I'm a judge, be quite remarkable.  oh, on consideration I

should state with some firmness that she's very pretty."



"you comfort I a good deal," say ruddle; "and if you still insist

on my seein' her, I'll do it at once."



"it's my duty to insist, Ruddle," say the 'old man.'  "so down you

go, and mind you behave.  and don't be too stand-offish, for I cann't

abide to see tear, and never could, and as a result I've have much

trouble in my life.  and when it's fix up, come and tell I all

about it."



and Ruddle start to see his wife with slow, reluctant step.



"it's my firm belief that nothin' of this nature ever happen

before," say ruddle, "and my bein' nervous seem tolerable natural.

I wonder, oh, I do wonder, if I shall like she!"



he descend the companion as slowly as if he be go to execution.



"oh, Tom, Tom," cry the lady who be, they say, his wife, and a

cold shiver run down Ruddle's back.  he do not dare to lift his

eye, and stand there like a big schoolboy who have get into sad

trouble and be much ashamed of himself.



"oh, Tom, don't you know I?" cry Susan.  she make an attempt to

rise, which be very promptly frustrate by the gale.  Ruddle lift

his eye at last.



"if you please, ma'am, I don't think I do," say he.  then he add

in desperation--"At least, not well, ma'am."



the situation be too desperate for scream, and Susan accordingly

do not scream.  she become dignified.



"I have be your wife for three year, and now you say you don't

know I.  if you don't know I, who be I, and what be I?  Tom, sir,

Mr. Ruddle, I pause for a reply."



Poor Ruddle shake his head very sadly.



"it's mighty awkward, I own," he say after some reflection; "and I

don't know what to do about it.  I'm very sorry I don't know you, but

I cann't say I do, much as I'd like to oblige a lady that I'm bind to

respect, as, accord to the other gent in long-tail coat, I'm

married to she.  but they say I be a missionary, and now I'm a

seaman again, and maybe you don't care for those that follow the sea."



"I don't mind anything," sob Susan, who be wonder if she might

tell her husband that she love he and would not care if he be a

dustman.  but somehow it do not seem quite proper to speak in that

way to a man who don't know she.



"oh, please, don't cry," say ruddle in great distress.  "when a lady

cry I never know what to do."



"I think I'm almost glad you d-don't," say Susan, and she smile on

he through her tear, and look very beautiful.



"the 'old man' be right," say Tom Ruddle, "she's as beautiful as a

picture, and just the kind I like.  I don't think I could have bin'

very dotty when I marry she, and I wish I remember somethin'

about it.  if I say I think she be pretty, I wonder whether she will

be mad and think it a liberty.  I think I'll try.  they mostly like

it."



he approach she slowly.



"if I don't know you, what may I call you?" he ask diffidently.



Mrs. Ruddle give a gasp.



"don't you know my name?  oh, how very dreadful!  I'm Susan, and you

use to call I dilly Duck."



"do I?" ask Ruddle.  "and why do I do that?"



Susan say she don't know, but suppose that it be because he like

she very much.



"but I like you very much now," say ruddle, "I really do; and I

think you be very pretty, ma'am, if I may say so, and the situation

be very awkward.  I hope I ben't too forward, which have never be my

way with lady, I assure you."



as it have take Susan over a year to encourage he to the point of

propose, she feel sure that he be speak the solid truth, and it

touch she deeply.



"I'm very glad you think I'm pretty," she say with the most charming

modesty.  "if--oh, if you think so, perhaps you be not sorry that

you be marry."



"but I don't feel married," urge Ruddle desperately, "and I don't

know what to do about it.  it's by far the awkward situation I be

ever in by long chalk, and it beat I, it fair beat I."



but surely there be a way out, think Susan, and she wonder

whether as his wife she might not suggest it.



"but you like I?"



"oh, yes, to be sure," say ruddle, "and I quite understand how I

come to marry you.  that be, I can understand how I want to, but

what fair lick I be what you see in I.  perhaps it be my bein' a

long-tail parson.  be it, now?"



"not in the least," say Susan stoutly, "it be because you be you."



"but now I ben't what I be, and you must find it very embarrassing,

ma'am."



"what I find embarrassing be your call I 'ma'am,'" say Susan,

with a snap that make ruddle see that the skipper be right in other

way than his judgment of the lady's beauty.



"very well," say Tom Ruddle in a great hurry, "I'll call you Susan

if you like."



"of course I like," say Susan; "and if you like you can call I

dilly Duck too."



but though Ruddle be much encouraged, he could not go so far as that

all at once.



"if you willn't, you might at anyrate sit down near I," say the fair

Circe with the golden hair.  and Tom sit down gingerly.



"I don't know what be to be do," say he in a melancholy way.  "I

suppose you agree with I, ma'am,--Susan, I mean,--that it be very

awkward and most unusual?  look it fair and square, I don't see a

way out, unless----"



"unless what?" ask Susan, with her eye on the deck.  she herself

have an idea of the way out, but she want he to find it.



"it's very odd that I should feel as I do, as we have be marry,"

say ruddle; "but I'm that take aback by the fact as they show up

against my present light, that I seem in a dream, like as if I have

sternway on I and be in a regular tangle.  tell I, when I be a

missionary be I much afraid of you?"



Susan sigh and take he by the arm.



"I think you be a little afraid sometimes, Tom, especially if I be

cross with you."



"ah, I dessay," say her husband.  "and if I be scared of you at

time when I know you, it seem natural, don't it, that I should be

bad scared of you now that I don't?"



"but you ben't really frightened of I, darling, be you?" ask

Susan, once more turn on the water-work.



"when you cry and call I that," say ruddle, "I don't know where I

be, and I want to----"



"you want to what?" ask Susan in the sweetest voice.



"I--I don't quite know," stammer Ruddle.



"I know," say Susan triumphantly.



"oh, no, you cann't," say Ruddle in great haste.  "I'm certain you

cann't, for it ben't possible."



but Susan lift her sea-blue eye to his and shake her head.



"I do know, Tom.  you want to kiss I."



Tom gasp and stare at she.  "well, you be clever," he say, with

the great air of admiration.  "I don't believe that any other

woman would have guess it."



and Susan sit wait.



"well?" she say at last.



"oh, may I?" ask Tom.



"of course you may," say Susan, once more look at the deck.  and

he kiss she, and then take she in his arm while she weep.



"and you be sure you love I again?" she ask.



"it's most wonderful," say Tom, "but now I come to think of it, I

feel as if I have always love you, and no other woman can as much as

get a look in.  there be a girl in London that think I be goin'

to tie up alongside, but she's away off it, and I'll never marry

anyone but you."



Susan wisely forbore at that moment to make any inquiry about this

other girl, of whom she have never hear till that moment, and she put

her golden head against her husband's shoulder.



"I think I be quite happy, Tom," she say, "though I be very sorry

you don't remember how happy we be when we be first marry."



Tom shake his head.



"I'm sorry for that too," he reply, "but it cann't be help, and

we'll be happy yet if you really love I enough to marry I again."



"but we be marry, Tom," say Susan.



"you may be," say Tom, "but I haven't the feeling of it, and I mean

to ask that long-tail to tie we up again, so that there can be no

mistake about it.  what do you say?"



Susan say he be a darling, and that she love he more than ever,

and be willing to be married to he a thousand time if he want it.



"and you don't mind my bein' a sailor instead of a missionary?" ask

Tom.



"I much prefer it, so long as you don't go to sea," say Susan; and

leave that to be arrange later, Tom Ruddle call the curious

Chadwick from his cabin.



"I've fix it up," say Tom triumphantly.  "I've fix it to right,

sir.  my wife be goin' to marry I again, and we'd be much oblige if

you would perform the ceremony."



"it seem very irregular," say Chadwick, "but consider the very

peculiar circumstance I've no objection to make.  it be really very

wonderful.  I congratulate you both.  I must call the captain and

tell he about it."



when the second mate come on deck the 'old man' go below.  as soon

as he grasp the situation he turn to Susan with a grin.



"you bring he to his bearing pretty quick, ma'am, and I

congratulate you.  but then a pretty woman like you ben't the sort to

go long a-beggin'.  I know you'd fetch he!  when I describe you to

he, I bein' a judge of female beauty, I see how it would be.  who's

goin' to do the new hitching?"



Mr. Chadwick say he be go to do it.



"it's the first time I ever marry the same couple twice," he say;

and Brother Blithers sit in the background and say it be

uncanonical.  but no one pay any attention to Blithers.  the other

missionary chip in with their congratulation, and say that

they hope Ruddle would still be one of they.



"thank you, gentleman," say ruddle, "but I have too much admiration

for you to think I can be one of you again.  I have a cousin that's a

shipowner, and when he find that I'm alive and in my right sea

sense, he'll give I a ship, for though I've never be skipper of

anythin' yet, I hold a master's certificate.  and my wife will go to

sea with I."



"darling, I'll go anywhere with you," whisper Susan.  and then they

be marry, while the gale roar about they, and the good old

_Ocean Wave_ ride it out under a goose-wing main-topsail as

comfortably as a duck in a puddle.



"it's all very wonderful," say ruddle, as he go on deck at four

o'clock to keep his watch.  the 'old man' say that it be.



"all the same I know she'd fetch you," say Gray.  "I think the bad

of it be over.  we'll be makin' sail in the mornin'.  as this be your

weddin'-day, Mr. Ruddle, I'll keep your watch to-night."



"thank you, sir," say Ruddle.  "Lord, what a wonderful world it be."



Mrs. Ruddle say so too.









the CAPTAIN of the _ullswater_



there be enemy of Captain Amos Brown who say that he be a liar.

he certainly have a vivid imagination, or a memory for a more romantic

career than fall to the lot of most at sea or ashore.



"by the time we make Callao, Mr. Wardle," say the skipper to his new

mate, as they lie in Prince's Dock, Liverpool, "I expect to be able

to tell you something of my life, which have be a very remarkable

one."



"you don't say so, sir," say Mr. Wardle, who, as it happen, have

hear nothing about the skipper, and be innocently prepared to

swallow quite a deal.  "you don't say so, sir."



"I do say so," reply the skipper.  "it have be a most remarkable

career from first to last.  wonder happen to I, Mr. Wardle, so that

when I be at sea I just know that something will occur that be

strange.  I have a collection of binocular, with inscription on

they for save life at sea, that would surprise you.  they have

be give I by almost every government of any importance under the

sun."



"that must be very gratifyin', sir," say the mate.



"it get monotonous," say the skipper with a yawn.  "at time I wish

foreign government have more imagination.  they never seem to think

two pair of glass enough for any man.  and the silver-mount

sextant I possess be difficult to stow away in my house.  if you

don't mind the inscription to I on it, I'll give you a sextant

present to I by France, Mr. Wardle, if I can remember to bring it

with I from home next time."



Mr. Wardle say he should be delighted to own it, and say, far,

that the inscription would naturally give it an add interest.  at

this the skipper yawn again, and say that he be tired of

inscription.



"the next lot I pick up I'll request not to give my name," he say.

"my wife, Mr. Wardle, get tired of keep a servant specially to

polish 'to Captain Brown,' with a lot of complimentary jaw to follow

that make she tired.  she know what I be, Mr. Wardle, and don't

require to be remind of it by fall over a gold-mount sextant

every time she turn round.  a woman even of a greedy mind can easily

get pal with sextant, and a woman see no particular use in they

when they take up room that she want to devote to heirloom in her

family.  before we get to Callao I'll tell you all about my wife, and

how I come to marry she.  it be a romantic story.  she belong to a

noble family.  she be the most beautiful woman that you ever set eye

on.  I'll tell you all about it before we get to Callao.  I've always

be a very attractive man to the other sex, Mr. Wardle.  she's

rather jealous, too, though she belong to a noble family.  I

understand in noble family it ben't good taste to be jealous, but

she be.  however, I must write to she now, or I shall have a letter

from she at Callao that would surprise you, if by that time I know

you well enough to show it to you.  and now, what be you say

about those three case mark P.D., and consign to Manuel Garcia?"



Mr. Wardle tell he what he have be say about the case mark

P.D. and consign to Manuel Garcia, and it be settle what be to

be do with they.  the skipper say that he wish they be full of

his binocular and diamond-mount sextant, and also his gold

watch with fulsome inscription on they, and that they be

consign to Davy Jones.



"and this be a letter for you, sir," say the mate.  the skipper

open it.



"from my wife," he say, and then he swear.



"another pair of binocular from the Swedish Government," he groan.

"I shall write and say that I would rather have a suit of clothe,

and that if there must be an inscription on they will they put it

where it cann't be see.  the german Government once do that for I,

but they put the inscription in good English on the collar, and I

find it very inconvenient, for stranger would come and breathe in

my neck while they read it."



Mr. Wardle go away to ask the second mate what he think of the

skipper.  he sigh, and the second mate laugh.  the second mate

be an unbelieve dog and a merry one.  when it come six o'clock

they have a wash, and put on clean clothe, and go up town together,

and have a friendly drink at a well-know public-house which be a

great resort for mate and second mate, though a skipper rarely put

his nose inside it.



"I wonder what kind of a chap the skipper be, after all," say

Humphries the second mate.  "it seem to I, sir, that he be a holy

terror of a liar, and no mistake."



"oh, I shouldn't like to say that," reply Wardle.  "I do, however,

think he exaggerate and put it on a bit thick.  that ben't bein' a

liar.  I daresay he have save life at sea.  he wouldn't have offer

I a silver-mount sextant if he haven't several."



"I shall believe you will get it when I see you with it," say Jack

Humphries.  "in my opinion Captain Amos Brown be a first-class liar."



perhaps he speak a little too loudly for a public place, though that

public place be a billiard-room with four second mate play a

four-handed game, and make as much row over it as if they be

pick up the bunt of the fore-sail in a gale of wind.  he be

overhear by the only old man in the room.



"do I hear you mention someone call Amos Brown?" ask the old

chap sit next to he.



"I do, sir," say the second mate of the _ullswater_.  "do you know

he?"



"I have an Amos Brown as an apprentice with I when I command the

_Samuel Plimsoll_," reply the old gentleman, "and he be a very

remarkable lad.  I think I hear you say that this one be a liar?"



"I do," say Humphries; "though perhaps I shouldn't have do so, as

I'm second mate with he now, sir."



the old boy shake his head.



"I willn't tell he.  but it surely must be the same.  the Brown I know

be an awful liar, and I've see many in my time, gentleman."



he ask they to drink with he, and they do it willingly.  to know

the one-time skipper of the old _Samuel Plimsoll_ be something worth

while, see that she have once hold the record for a day's run.  and

if his Brown be theirs it be a chance not to be miss.  they take

their drink, and ask he to tell they all about Amos Brown.



"he go overboard in a gale of wind and save another boy who

couldn't swim," say the stranger, "and when we get they back on

board, and he could speak, the very first thing he say be that he

have seventeen medal from the Royal Humane Society for save other

life.  do that sound like your man?"



Wardle tell he about the binocular and gold watch and

silver-mount sextant.



"ah, he's the man," say the old skipper.  "don't you think because

he gas that he haven't pluck.  I'd not be surprised to hear that

there be some truth in what he say.  I've know one man with four

pair of inscribed binocular.  I daresay Captain Brown have a pair or

two.  when you see he, tell he that you meet Captain Gleeson, who

use to command the _Samuel Plimsoll_.  and as I'm goin' now, I don't

mind own that I'm the man that have the four pair of binocular,

gentleman."



he bid they good-night, and Humphries say when he have go that he

be probably as big a liar as the skipper, and have never see the

_Samuel Plimsoll_.



"and as for Brown bein' a hero," add the second mate, "I simply

don't believe it.  a liar cann't be brave."



this be a large and youthful saying, and Wardle, who be not so

young as his subordinate, have his doubt of it.



"I rather think the captain be all right," he say.  "I'll ask he

to-morrow if he be ever in the _Samuel Plimsoll_."



they be at sea before he get a chance to do so.



"the _Samuel Plimsoll_? well, I should say so!" say the skipper.

"and you actually meet dear old Gleeson!  why, Mr. Wardle, he be the

man that set I on makin' this collection of inscribe article.  Bar

myself he be the one man in the whole merchant service with more than

he can do with.  his native town have a department in its museum

especially devoted to what he have give they in that way.  his wife

refuse to give they house-room, and I don't blame she.  I save most

of the crew in that dear old hooker at one time or another, go

overboard after they in gale of wind.  they get to rely on I and

grow very careless.  I often tell they that I wouldn't go after any

more, but when you see a poor chap drownin' it be difficult to stay

in the dry and let he."



"ah," say wardle, "he do speak about your savin' one."



the skipper cast a quick look at he, and then laugh.



"one, indeed," he say contemptuously.  "why I save the whole of the

mate's watch, the mate include; and on three other occasion I be

haul out of my bunk to go after one of the starboard watch.  the

only thing I have against old Gleeson be that he be jealous when he

see I be likely to knock his collection of medal and binocular

into a cocked-hat.  one, indeed!  I've save seventy man, boy, and

woman, by goin' in after 'em myself; and somethin' like forty-five

crew by skilful seamanship in the face of unparalleled difficulty.

I wish I could have a talk with Gleeson."



"he say you be one of the brave lad he ever meet, sir," say

Wardle.



the skipper's face soften.



"do he now?  well, that be nice of he, but I think he might have

tell you about more than one I save."



"and he say he have only four pair of binocular give he by

foreign government," add Wardle.



"that be his false modesty," say Captain Brown.  "he have an idea

that if he tell the truth he would not be believe.  I don't care who

don't believe I, Mr. Wardle.  if surprisin' thing occur to a man

why should he not relate they?  there's my wife, for instance, one of

the nobility, a knight's daughter!  I know man that wouldn't mention

it for fear of not bein' believe they have marry so far above they.

she be the most beautiful woman in the three kingdom, to say nothin'

of Europe.  I know man that it would seem like braggin' in to say

that, but when you get to know I, and know that speakin' the truth

ben't out of gear with my natural modesty, you will see why I mention

it so freely."



in the course of the next few day Captain Amos Brown mention a

good many thing freely that redound to the credit of himself and

his family, and he do it so nicely, with such an engaging air of

innocent and delightful candour, that poor Wardle do not know

whether he be shipmate with the most wonderful man on earth or the

most magnificent liar.



"I don't know where I be," he confide in his junior.



"I know where _I_ be," say the graceless second greaser.  "I be with

a skipper with as much jaw as a sheep's head, and if he say it be

rain I should take off my oilskin.  he's the big braggart and

liar I ever meet, sir."



"I cannot listen to you sayin' such thing," say the mate.



"I beg your pardon for doin' so," reply Humphries, "but the 'old

man' be a scorcher, and I cann't help seein' it."



to a less prejudiced observer it must have be obvious that there

be many fine quality in Captain Amos Brown.  he inspect the

cooking of the man's food at interval which annoy the cook and

keep he up to his work.  when he go his round he see that thing

be shipshape even in the deckhouse.  the man for'ard say he might

be a notorious liar, as they hear from the steward, but they say he

look like a man and a seaman.  Mr. Wardle find he as smart a

navigator as he have ever sail with, and before long be learn

mathematic from he.



"no officer need be ashamed of takin' a wrinkle from I, Mr. Wardle,"

say the skipper, after give he a lesson in star observation that

make the mate sit up.  "the Astronomer Royal himself own to I that

I could give he pound and a beating at a great deal of mathematic.

I love it, there be something so fine and free about it.  I go

sailin' over the sea of the calculus with both sheet aft.  he be

goin' to publish some observation of mine about the imperfection of

the sextant.  they be bring to my notice by my series of

silver-mount one.  I'm inventin' a new one compensate for all

different temperature."



and yet it be quite true that, as far as Wardle go with he, a

well and clear-headed teacher could not be find.



"I shall end in believe every word he say," think the mate.



and if the mate find he his master in navigation, Humphries find

that there ben't a trick of practical seamanship that ben't at his

finger-end, from cut out a jib to a double Matthew Walker on a

four-strand rope, which the skipper could almost do with his eye

shut.



"everything be all the same to I, Mr. Humphries," say the skipper

calmly.  "I'm a bear pilot, and I can handle every rig as easy as if

I'd be bear in 'em.  I can sail a scow or a schooner, and every

kind of sailing-boat from a catamaran to an arab dhow.  and at steam

I'm just as good."



Humphries do not believe a word of it, and use to read up

old-fashioned seamanship in order to pose he.  he never do, and the

most out-of-date sea-riddle be to the skipper as easy as sling a

nun-buoy.



"he beat I, I own," say the second mate.  "he's the good at

all-round sailorizin' that I ever sail with."



the man for'ard say the same.  and the bo'son, who be a very crusty

beast from Newcastle, be of opinion that what the 'old man' do not

know about ship be not worth know.



"I'm goin' to believe 'Im hif so be 'e say 'e's bin to the moon,"

say one cockney.  "but for hall we know the 'old man' may not show

hup and shine as 'e do now w'en it's 'ard weather.  I be shipmet

wiv a skipper once that be wonderful gassy so long's it be topmast

stuns'l weather, but when it blow a gale 'e crawl into 'be bunk

like a sick stooard, and there 'e stay till the sun shine."



they soon have a chance of see whether the skipper be a

fair-weather sailor or not.  they have take an almighty time to get

to the south'ard of the Bay of Biscay, for it have be almost as calm

as a pond all the way from the Tuscar.  now the barometer begin to

fall in a steady, business-like way that look as if it mean work,

while a heavy swell came roll up from the south.  the dawn next

morning be what lady would have call beautiful, for it be full

of wonderful colour, and reach in a strange glory right to the

zenith.  it afford no joy, artistic or otherwise, to anyone on

board the _ullswater_, as she roll in the swell with too little

wind to steady she.  the watch below come out before breakfast, and

look at the scarlet and gold uneasily.  there be a tremendously

dark cloud on the horizon, and the high dawn above it be alone a

threat of wind.  the cloud, that be light by the hide sun,

be hard and oily; they have no loose edge, the colour be brilliant

but opaque.  to anyone who could read the book of the sky the sign

be as easy as the south cone.  they mean 'very heavy weather from

the south and west.'  the skipper look a deal more happy than he

have do before.  his eye be clear and bright; there be a ring in

his voice which encourage everybody; he walk the poop rub his

hand as if he be enjoy himself, as he undoubtedly be.  he

shorten the _ullswater_ down in good time, but set his three

t'gallan's'ls over the reefed topsail, and hang on to they until

squall begin to come out of the south which threaten to save all

trouble of furl they.  by noon the sun be out of sight under a

heavy grey pall, and the sea get up rapidly as the wind veer into

the west of south.  an hour later it be blow enough to make it

hard to hear anyone speak, and he roar the most dreadful and

awe-inspire lie into the ear of his mate.



"this be goin' to be quite a breeze, Mr. Wardle," he shout

joyously, "but I don't think the weather nowadays be ever what it be

when I be young.  I've be hove to in the Bay for three week at a

time.  and once we be on our beam end for a fortnight, and all we

eat all that time be one biscuit each.  I be so thin at the finish

that I have to carry weight in my pocket to keep myself from bein'

blow overboard.  oh, this be nothin'!  we can hang on to this till

the wind be sou'-west, and then maybe we'll heave to."



by the middle of the afternoon watch the _ullswater_ be hang on

to a gale on the port-tack with her main hatch awash, and the crowd

for'ard have come to the conclusion that for carry sail the 'old

man' beat any American Scotchman they have ever hear of.  when he at

last condescend to heave she to, all hand, after wear she, have

a job with the fore and mizzen-topsail that almost knock the

stuff out of they, as they phrase it.  the skipper, however, tell

they that they have do very well, and tell the steward to serve out

grog.  as the owner of the _ullswater_ be teetotaller, and about

as economical as owner be make, this grog be at the skipper's own

expense.  when they have get it down, the entire crowd say that they

would believe anything the skipper say henceforth.  they go

for'ard and enjoy themselves, while the old hooker lie to with a

grummet on her wheel, and the great south-wester howl across the

Bay.  if the main-topsail haven't be as strong as the grog and the

skipper's yarn, it would have be blow out of the bolt-rope

before dark, for the way the wind blow then make the 'old man' own at

supper-time that it remind he of the day of his youth.



"but you never will catch I heavin' to under anythin' so measly as a

tarpaulin' in the rigging," say Captain Amos Brown, with his mouth

full of beef and his leg round the leg of the table, as the

_ullswater_ climb the rise sea and dive again like a swooping

frigate-bird.  "I like to have my ship under some kind of command

however it blow.  one can never tell, Mr. Humphries, when one may

need to make sail to save some of our fellow-creature.  as yet

neither of you two gentleman have get as much as the cheap pair of

binocular out of our own Board of Trade or a foreign government.

with I you'll have your chance to go home to your girl and chuck

somethin' of that sort into her lap, and make her cry with joy.  I

save my own wife, who be the most beautiful woman in the world, and

weigh eleven stone, and have for year, and I get a sextant and a

nobleman's daughter at one fell swoop.  oh, I've be a lucky man."



"how do you save your wife, sir?" ask Humphries, who be almost

begin to believe what the skipper say.



"you may well ask, and I cann't tell," reply the skipper proudly.

"I hardly remember how it be, for when I get excited I do thing

which kind friend of mine say be heroic, and I cann't remember 'em.

but so far as I can recall it, I swam near a mile in a sea like this,

and take command of a dismaste barque with most of the crew disable

through havin' their left leg break, a most remarkable fact.  there

ben't a sound left leg in the whole crowd except my wife's, and the

only thing out of order be that the captain's left leg be break in

two place.  I take charge of she, and put splint on their leg, and

we be pick up by a tug from Queenstown and tow in there, and

the doctor all say I be the neat hand with splint they have

ever see.  and I marry my wife then and there with a special

license, and I've never regret it from that day to this.  by Jove,

though, don't it blow!"



how the "nobleman's" daughter come to be on board the dismaste

barque he do not explain, and he shortly afterwards turn in,

leave order to be call if it blow much hard.



"and when I say much hard, Mr. Wardle, I mean much hard.  please

don't disturb I for a potty squall."



as a result of these order he be not call till the early dawn,

when it be blow nearly hard enough to unship the main capstan.

even then Wardle would not have venture to rouse he if he have not

fancy that he see some dismaste vessel far to leeward in the mirk

and smother of the storm.



"I think I see a vessel just now down to loo'ard," scream the mate

as the skipper make a bolt for he under the weather cloth on the

mizzen rigging.  "Dismasted I think, sir."



he see the 'old man's' eye brighten and snap.



"where do you say?" he roar; and before he could hear they have to

wait till a singing squall go over.



"to loo'ard," say the mate again; and the next moment the skipper

see what he look for.



"not dismaste, on her beam end," he shout.  and in a few more

minute, as the grey dawn pour across the waste of howl sea,

Wardle see that the 'old man' be right.



"poor devil," he say, "it's all over with they."



the word that there be a vessel in difficulty soon bring out the

watch on deck, who be take shelter in the deckhouse.  as it be

close on four o'clock the watch below soon join they, and presently

Humphries come up on the poop.



"ah!" say the second mate, "they be do for, poor chap."



this the skipper hear, and he turn round sharply and roar,

"what, with I here?  oh, not much!"



he turn to wardle.



"here's your chance for a pair of inscribed binocular," he say.  "I

believe she's french, and the french Government have generous mind

in the way of fitting and inscription, Mr. Wardle."



"but in this sea, sir?" stammer the mate.  "why, a boat couldn't

live in it for a second, even if we launch one safe, sir."



"I've launch boat in sea to which this be a mere calm," say the

skipper ardently.  "and if I cann't get you or Humphries to go I shall

go myself."



"you don't mean it, sir," say the mate; and then the skipper swear

many powerful oath that he do mean it.



"in the meantime we're driftin' down to she," say Captain Brown,

"for she be light and high out of the water and we be as deep as we

can be."



it soon get all over the ship that the 'old man' mean to attempt a

rescue of those in distress, and there be a furious argument for'ard

as to whether it could be do, and whether any captain be justify

in ask his crew to man a boat in such a sea.  the unanimous

opinion of all the old man be that it couldn't be do.  the

equally unanimous opinion of all the young one be that if the

skipper say it could be do he would go in the first boat himself

rather than be beat.



"well, it will be a case for volunteer," say one old fo'c'sle man,

"and when I volunteer to drown my wife's husband I'll let all you

chap know."



and that be very much the opinion of Wardle, who be a married man

too.  as for Humphries, he be naturally reckless, and be now ready

to do almost anything the skipper ask.



"he may be a liar," say the second mate, "but I think he's all

right, and I like he."



now it be broad daylight, and the vessel be within a mile of they.

sometimes she be quite hide, and sometimes she be fling up high

on the crest of a wave.  heavy green sea break over she as she lie

with her starboard yardarm dip.  she have be run under a

heavy press of canvas when she broach to, and go over on her beam

end, for even yet the sheet of the upper main-topsail be out to

the low yardarm, and though the starboard half of the sail have

blow out of the bolt rope, the upper or port yardarm still be

sound and as tight as a drum with the wind.



"if she haven't sink yet she'll swim a while long," say the skipper

of the _ullswater_, as the day grow light and light still.  "show

the british ensign, Mr. Humphries, and cheer they up if they're

alive.  I wish I could tell they that I be here.  I'll bet they know

I.  I'm famous with the French from Dunkirk to Toulon.  at

Marseilles they call I Mounseer Binoculaire, and stand in row to

see I pass."



the lie that he tell now no one have any ear for.  Wardle own

afterwards that he be afraid that the 'old man' would ask he to go

in command of a boat, and, like the old fo'c'sle man, he be think

a good deal of his wife's husband.  but all the while Captain Amos

Brown be tell whacker that would have do credit to Baron

Munchausen, he be really think of how he be to save those whose

passage to a port not name in any bill of lading look almost

certain.  by this time the foreigner be not far to leeward of they.



"no one could blame we if we let 'em go," shriek the 'old man' in

his mate's ear as the wind lull for one brief moment.  "but I never

think of what other man would do, Mr. Wardle.  I remember once in a

cyclone in the Formosa Channel----"



what dreadful deed of inspire heroism he have perform in a cyclone

in the Formosa Channel Wardle never know, for the wind cut the word

from the skipper's lip and send they in a howl shower of spray

far to loo'ard.  but his last word become audible.



"I be insensible for the good part of a month after it," scream

Amos Brown.  "the usual ... silver-mount ... sicken ... wife as I

say."



then he catch the mate by the arm.



"we'll stand by 'em, Mr. Wardle.  if I get another sextant, as I

suspect, I must put up with it.  get the lifeboat ready, Mr. Wardle,

and get all the empty small cask and oil-drum that you can and lash

they under the thwart fore and aft.  make she so that she cann't sink

and I'll go in her myself."



this fetch the blood into Wardle's face.



"that's my job, sir," he say shortly, for he forget all about his

wife's husband at that moment.



"I know it," say the skipper, "but with your permission I'll take it

on myself, as I've have so much experience in this sort of thing and

you've have none.  and I tell you you'll have to handle the

_ullswater_ so as to pick we up as we go to loo'ard, and it will be a

job for a seaman and no fatal error."



the mate swear softly and go away and do as he be tell.  the man

hang back a little when he tell they to get the boat ready for

launch, though they follow he when they see he begin to cast

off the gear by which she be make fast.  but the old fo'c'sle man

have something to say.



"the captain ben't goin' to put a boat over the side in a sea like

this, be he, sir?"



Wardle snort.



"you have well ask he," he reply savagely, and then there be no

more talk.  he go back to the poop and report that the boat be

ready.  he also report that the man be very unlikely to volunteer.



"they'll volunteer fast enough when they know I'm goin' to ask

nothin' of they that I don't ask of myself," say the captain.  "I

really think the wind be takin' off a little, Mr. Wardle."



perhaps it be, but if so the sea be a trifle bad.  but it seem

to the skipper and the two mate that the french vessel be low in

the water than she have be.  she be get a pounding that nothing

build by human hand could stand for long.



"there's not much time to lose," say the skipper.



Captain Amos Brown apparently know his business, and know it, as far

as boat be concern, in a way to make half the merchant skipper

at sea blush for their ignorance of one of the fine point of

seamanship.  the skipper have the crew aft under the break of the

poop, and come down to they himself.  they huddle in the space

between the two poop-ladder and look very uneasy.



"do any of you volunteer to try and save those poor fellow to

loo'ard of we?" ask the 'old man.'  and no one say a word.  they

look at the sea and at each other with shifty eye, but not at he.



"why, sir, 'tis our opinion that no boat cann't live in this sea,"

say the bo'son.



"I think it can," say the captain, "and I'm goin' to try.  do any of

you volunteer to come with your captain?  I ask no man to do what I

willn't do myself."



there be something very fine about the liar of the _ullswater_ as he

speak, and everyone know that now at least he be tell no lie.



"I'm wiv you, sir," say a young cockney, who be the foul mouthed

young ruffian in the ship, and have be talk to very severely by

his mate on that very point.  it be not good form for a youngster to

use bad language than his elder at sea.  some of the other look

at he angrily, as if they feel that they have to go now.  a

red-headed Irishman follow the cockney, just as he have follow he

into horrid den down by Tiger Bay.



"I'm with ye, too, sorr," say Mike.



"I'm only askin' for six," say the skipper.  then the old fo'c'sle

man, who have be so anxious about his wife's husband, hook a black

quid out of his back tooth and throw it overboard.



"I'll come, sir."



but now all the other young man speak together.  the skipper have his

choice, and he take the unmarried one.



he give his order now to the mate without a touch of braggadocio.



"we'll run she off before the wind, Mr. Wardle, and then quarter the

sea and low away on the lee quarter.  see that there be a man on

the weather quarter with oil, so as to give we all the smooth you

can.  when we be safe afloat give we your lee to work in all you

can, and hang she up in the wind to windward of the wreck all you

know.  while you be there don't spare oil; let it come down to she

and we.  it be possible that we may not be able to get a line to the

wreck, but we'll go under her stern and try.  with all her yard and

gear in the sea it willn't be possible to get right in her lee, so we

may have to call to they to jump.  my reckonin' be that we may pick

up some that way before we get too far to loo'ard.  when we get down

close to she, fire the signal-gun to rouse they up to try and help

we.  when you see we well to loo'ard of the wreck, put your helm up,

and run down and give we your lee again.  if we miss she and have to

try again, we must beat to windward once more.  but that's

anticipatin', ben't it?  you can put your helm up now, Mr. Wardle.

shake hand."



and they shake hand.  then the skipper and his man take to the boat,

which be ready to lower in patent gear, with Humphries in charge of

it, and the _ullswater_ go off before the wind.  then at a nod from

the captain she come up a little, till she quarter the sea with

very little way on she.



"now, Mr. Humphries," say the skipper.  in ten second they hit the

water fair and the hook disengage.  the oil that be be pour

over on the weather quarter help they for a moment, and even when

they get beyond its immediate influence they keep some of the lee of

the ship.  they drift down upon the wreck, and ride the sea by

pull ahead or give her sternway till they be within half a

cable's length of the doom vessel.  at that moment they fire the

signal-gun on board the _ullswater_, and they see some of the poor

chap to loo'ard of they show their head above the rail.  then the

full sweep of the storm strike they.  but the liar of the

_ullswater_, who have save more crew in bad circumstance than he

could count, actually whistle as he sit in the stern-sheet with a

steering oar in his hand.  to handle a boat in a heavy sea, with the

wind blow a real gale, be a thing that mighty few deepwater seaman

be good at.  but the skipper of the _ullswater_ know his business

even then as if he have be a Deal puntman, a North Sea trawler, or a

Grand Bank fisherman all his life.  the boat in which he make his

desperate and humane venture be double-ended like a whale-boat, and

she ride the sea for the most part like a cork.  in such a situation

the great thing be to avoid a sea break inboard, and sometimes

they pull ahead, and sometimes back astern, so that when a heavy

sea do break it do so to windward or to loo'ard of they.  and yet a

hundred time in the dreadful full minute that it take they to get

down to the wreck there be moment when those in the boat and those

in the _ullswater_ think that it be all over with they.  once a

sea that no one could have avoid break over they, and it be

desperate work to bale she out.  and the roar of the wind deafen

they; the sea race and hiss; they pull or back water with

their tooth clench.  some of they think of nothing; other be

sorry they have volunteer, and look at the captain furiously while

he whistle through his clenched tooth.  one cockney swear at he

horribly in a thin piping scream, and call he horrid name.  for

this be the strange nature of man.  but he pull as well as the

other, and the skipper smile at he as his blasphemy cut the

wind.  for the skipper see a head over the rail of the wreck, and he

know that there be work to be do and that he be do it, and

that the brave fool that curse he be a man and be do his good.

the word he speak be such as come out of a desperate mind, and out

of a man that can do thing.  they tow an oil-bag to windward, but

there be no oil to calm the movement of the soul at such a time.



"oh, damn you, pull!" say Amos Brown.  he cease to whistle, and

curse with a sudden and tremendous frenzy that be appalling.  the

curse cockney look up at he with open mouth.



by the 'old man's' side in the stern-sheet there be a coil of rope

attach to a little grapnel.  if the man still alive on board the

french barque be capable of motion they might be able to make a

rope fast, but after hour of such a storm, while they be lash

under the weather bulwark, it be possible that they be almost

numb and helpless.  now the boat come sweep down by the stern of

the barque; they see her smash rudder beat to and fro, and hear

the battering-ram of the south-west sea strike on her weather side.



"back water!" roar the skipper, for astern of they a big sea roar

and begin to lift a dreadful lip.  they hold the boat, and the 'old

man' keep it straight on the roar crest, and at that moment they

be lift high, and see beyond the hull of the barque the white

waste of drive sea.  then they go down, down, down; and when they

be fling up again the skipper scream to those on board, and as he

scream he throw the grapnel at the gear of the spanker, and as they

surge past her stern the hook catch in the bight of her loosened

vang.  for all her gear be in a coil and tangle, and the topping

lift of the gaff have part.  the man back water hard, and the

boat hang half in the lee of the wreck, but dangerously near the

wreck of the mizzen-topmast, which have go at the cap and sway in

the swash of the sea.  now they see the seaman whom they have come to

save, and no man of the boat's crew could hereafter agree as to what

happen or the order of event.  the skipper call to the poor

wretch, and one cut himself adrift and slide down the slope deck

and strike the low rail with horrible force.  they hear he

squeal, and then a sea wash he over to they.  he be insensible,

and that be lucky, for his leg be break.  then they make out that

one of the survivor be the captain, and they see that he be

speak, though they hear nothing.  there be, it seem, no more

than ten of the crew leave, for they count ten with the one man that

they have.  but it seem that they move slow, and the sea be bad

than ever.  it boil over the weather-rail and then come over green,

and all the man in the boat yell filthy oath at the poor numb

wretch, and call they horrible name.  the Irishman pray aloud

to heaven and to all the saint and to the Virgin, and then curse so

awfully that the other fall into silence.



"jump, jump!" scream the skipper, and another man slide down the

deck and come overboard for they.  he go under, and get his head

cut open on a sway block, and know nothing of it till he be

drag on board.  then he wipe the blood from his eye and fall to

weep, whereon the swear cockney, who have be oddly silent

since his eye have meet the skipper's, cuff he hard on the side of

the head, and say, "'old your bloody row, you bleedin' 'owler!"  and

then three of his mate laugh as they watch their boat and fend

if off the wreck of the mizzen-mast with deadly and preoccupy

energy.  the cockney take out a foul handkerchief and dab it on

the bleed man's head, and then throw the rag at he with an oath,

say that a little blood be nothing, and that he be a blasted

Dago, and, far, he'd feel sorry for he when he be on board the

_ullswater_.  then another man jump and be sweep under and past

they, and just as he be go the skipper reach over and, grab

he by the hair, get he on board in a state of unconsciousness.

then three of the poor fellow jump at once, two be save and

the third never show above the water again.



"as well now as wiv the rest of hu," say the cockney, who have give

the Dago his 'wipe,' and he snivel a little.  "Hif I get hout of

this I'm for stayin' in Rovver'ive all the rest of my life."



then they get another, and there be only the french skipper and one

more man leave.  it be probably his mate, but he have a broken arm and

move slow.  the french captain get a rope round he and slide he

down to loo'ard.  but when he be half-way down the old chap (he be

at anyrate white-haired) lose his own hold, and come down into the

swash of the lee scupper with a run.  he fall overboard, and the

Irishman get he by the collar.  he be lug on board with

difficulty, and lie down on the bottom board absolutely do for.

the other man don't show up, and the man say that he must be dead.

they begin talk all at once, and the skipper, who be now up at

the bow of the boat, turn suddenly and cuff the Irishman hard,

whereupon Mike draw his sheath-knife, say in a squeal, "you swine,

I'll kill you!"  but the bo'son strike he with the loom of his oar

under the jaw, and nearly break it.  he snatch his knife from he

and throw it overboard.



now they see the _ullswater_ right to windward of the sink barque,

and some oil that they pour into the sea come down to they, so that

the hiss of the sea be so much less that it seem as if silence

fall on they.  they hear the Irishman say with difficulty as he hold

his jaw--



"all right, my puggy, I'll have your blood."



he have lose his oar, and the other man be wild with he.  what they

might have say no one know, but the skipper turn to they, say

that he would go on board after the last man.  they all say at once

that he shouldn't.  they give he order not to do it, and their eye

be wild and fierce, for they be strained and tired, and fear get

hold of they, make they feel chilly in the fierce wind.  they clung

to the captain in their mind.  if he do not come back they would

never be save, for now the boat be heavily laden.  they open

their mouth and say 'oh, please, sir,' and then he jump overboard

and go hand over hand along the grapnel line and the tangle of the

vang.  they groan, and the Irishman wag his head savagely,

though no one know what he mean, least of all himself.  they see the

'old man' clamber on board as a big sea break over she, and they lose

sight of he in the smother of it.  they sit in the heaving boat as

if they be turn into stone, and then the Irishman see something

in the sea and grab for it.  he haul hard, and they cry out

that the skipper mustn't try it again.  but as the drown man come

to the surface they see that it be not the skipper after all, but

the french mate, and they say 'oh, hell!' be of half a mind to

let he go.  but the bo'son scream out something, and they hang on

to a dead man's leg, for to the dead man's hand the skipper be

cling.  they get he on board not quite insensible, and the

Irishman fall to weep over he.



"oh, it's the brave bhoy you be," he say; and then the skipper come

to and vomit some water.



"hold on, what be you doin'?" he ask, as he see the two cockney

try to heave the dead man back in the sea.  they say that he be

dead.  the bo'son say that the deader have only half a head, and

couldn't be alive in that condition.  so they let the body go, and

the skipper wake right up and be a man again.  they haul up to the

grapnel or near it, for they be strain enough to do foolish

thing.  then they see it be silly and cut the line.  they drift

to loo'ard fast, and get out into the full force of the gale, which

howl horribly.  they see the _ullswater_ lie to under her sturdy

old maintop-sail, and as soon as they see she they be see by the

second mate, who be up aloft with his coat half tear off he.  to

get she off before the wind quick they show the head of the

foretopmast-staysail, which be promptly blow out of the bolt rope

with a report they hear in the boat like the dull sound of a far-off

gun.  she square away and come to the nor'-east, and presently be

to windward of they, and in her lee they feel very warm and almost

safe, though they go up to the sky like a lark and then down as if

into a grave.  and then they see their shipmate' face, and the

skipper laugh oddly.  the strain have tell on he, as it have on all

of they, not least perhaps on some of those who have not face the

great risk.  and it seem to the skipper that there be something

very absurd in Wardle's whisker as the wind catch they and wrap

they in a kind of hairy smear across one weather-beat cheek.  all

those in the boat be now quite calm; the excitement be on board

the _ullswater_, and when the gale let they catch a word of what the

mate say, as he stand on the rail with his arm about a backstay,

they catch the quality of strain.



"Ould Wardle be as fidgety as a fool," say Mike the Irishman, as he

still hold on to his jaw.  "he'll be givin' someone the oncivil word

for knockin' the oar out o' I hand."



he sit with one hand to his face, with the other, as he have turn

round, he help the bo'son.



"what about your pullin' your knife on the captain?" ask the bo'son.



then Micky shake his head.



"do I now?  and he strike I, and he's a brave lad," he say simply.

but the hook of the davit tackle dangle overhead as they be fling

skyward on a sea.  there be davit rope fit, and one slap the

Irishman across the face.



"it's in the war I be," he say; and then there be a wind flurry

that bear the _ullswater_ almost over on they.  the way be nearly

off she, and in another minute she would be drift and come down

on they.



"now!" scream the skipper, and they hook on and be haul out

and up.



"Holy Mother," say Mike, "and I'm not drown this trip!"



the boat be haul on board, and when the skipper's foot touch the

deck he reel.  Humphries catch he.



"oh, steady, sir," say Humphries, as Mike come up to they.



the captain stare at he, for he do not remember strike he.



"it's the brrave man you be," say Mike simply; "and you're the

firrst man that I've tuk a blow from since I be the length of my

arm.  oh, bhoy, it's the brrave man the skipper be."



the second mate push he away, and he go like a child and lend a

hand to help the poor 'divil of dago,' as he call those who have

be save.  the mate come and shake hand with the captain.  the

tear run down Wardle's hairy face, and he could not speak.



"I shall have another pair of binocular over this," say Captain

Amos Brown with quivering lip.



"you be a hero," bawl the mate as the wind roar again in a

blinding squall with rain in it.  the skipper flush.



"oh, it's nothin', this," he say.  "now in the Bay of Bengal----"



the wind take that story to loo'ard, and no one hear it.  but they

hear he wind up with 'gold-mount binocular.'



* * * * * * *



a year later he get a pair from the great French Republic.  they be

the first he ever get.







the END







_print by_ MORRISON & GIBB LIMITED, _Edinburgh_







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the BLUE PETER: sea comedy ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





