The project Gutenberg eBook of Captain Balaam of the 'Cormorant', and other sea comedy

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Captain Balaam of the 'Cormorant', and other sea comedy



author: Morley Roberts



Release date: September 6, 2022 [ebook #68920]

                most recently update: October 19, 2024



language: English



original publication: United Kingdom: Eveleigh Nash, 1905



credit: Al Haines





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK CAPTAIN BALAAM of the 'CORMORANT', and other sea comedy ***



[illustration: Cover art]









  CAPTAIN BALAAM

  of the 'CORMORANT'



  and other sea comedy





  by MORLEY ROBERTS



  AUTHOR of

  'the promotion of the ADMIRAL,' ETC.







  LONDON

  EVELEIGH nash

  1905









Edinburgh: T. and A. CONSTABLE, printer to his Majesty









content





I. the owner of THE _PATRIARCH_



II. the order of the WOODEN GUN



III. CAPTAIN BALAAM of the _CORMORANT_



IV. JACK-ALL-alone



V. the mutinous CONDUCT of MRS. RYDER



VI. the comedy of the _oriana_









the owner of the PATRIARCH



if any one care to look up the _Patriarch_ in Lloyd's list, it will

be discover that the line give to her read thus:--



[illustration: _Patriarch's_ ship record]



and all these hieroglyphic mean something to the initiate, of whom,

as a matter of fact, there be more ashore than at sea.  but the main

point be that the owner of she be T. Tyser, and it matter very

little whether she be build of heavy plating than the rule

require, or whether she be cement, or build under special survey,

or what not.  for T. Tyser, otherwise Mr. Thomas Tyser, be not only

the owner of the _Patriarch_, but also the owner of a dozen other

vessel all begin with a P.  he be, moreover, the owner of a

large block of land in the heart of Melbourne; he have several

street, of which the big be Tyser Street, S.E., in London, and

his banking account be certainly of heavy metal than he have any

personal use for.  he be a rough dog from the north country, and in

the course of half a century's fight in London he come out top-dog in

his own line, and be more or less of a millionaire.



'and he's my uncle,' say Geordie Potts; 'his sister be my mother,

and here I be before the stick in one of his old wind-jammer, and

gettin' two-pun-ten in this here _Patriarch_ of his, and hang I if I

believe the old bloke have another relative in the world.  it's hard

line, mate, it's hard line.  don't you allow it's hard line?'



it be Sunday morning in the South-East Trades, and every sail be

draw, 'like a bally droring-master,' as Geordie once say, and the

'crowd' of the _Patriarch_ be all fairly easy in their mind and

ready for a discussion.



'_if_ so be you be 'be nevvy, as you state,' say the port watch

cautiously, 'we allow it's 'ard line.'



'I've state it frequent,' say Geordie, 'and it's the truth, the

whole truth, and nothin' but it, so help I.  D'ye think I'd claim to

be old Tyser's sister's son if I ben't?  I'd scorn to claim it.'



'any man would scorn to be Tyser's sister's son,' say the starboard

watch; 'he'd scorn to be 'Im unless 'e be, for Tyser's a mean old

dog, ben't 'e, Geordie?'



Geordie thank his watch-mate for back he up so.  'that's

right, chap.  there 's no meaner in the north of England, or the

south for that matter, and the way this ship's find be scandalous.'



'the grub's horrid,' say both watch.



'and look at the gear,' say Geordie; 'everything ready to part a

deal easy than my uncle be.  I never lay hold of a halliard but

I'm think I'll go on my back if I pull heavy.  oh, he's a fair

scandal!'



he consider the scandal soberly, and with some sadness.



'he might leave you some dibs, Geordie,' suggest his mate, Jack

Braby; 'he might, after all.'



'not a solitary dime,' say Geordie; 'he and I quarrel because

my father fight he in the street, and I hit the old hunk with a

bit of a brick because he get my dad down.'



'wot be the row about?' ask the other eagerly.



'Nothin' to speak of,' say George; 'my old man say he be a

blood-sucker, and that lead to word.  and I never hurt he to speak

of.  and yet I've ship in one of his ship, and be as poor as he's

rich.  he allow none of we would get a farthing: he shout it out

in the market-place, and say hospital would get it, because, when

one of his skipper that he'd sack cut he up awful with a

stay-sail hank, they sew he up very neat at one of 'em.'



'there's nothin' so good in a fight as a stay-sail 'ank,' say Jack

Braby, contemplatively.  'I cut a polisman all to rag wiv one once.'



'be that the time you do three month' 'ard?' ask the port watch.



'six,' say Braby proudly, 'and I tell the beak I could do it on my

'ead.  but, Geordie, if you be owner yourself what would you do?'



'yes, wot?' ask the rest.



Geordie shake his head and sigh.



'I'd make my ship such that sailorman would be want to pay to go

in 'em,' say Geordie.  'I've lay awake thinkin' of it.'



'oh, tell we,' say all hand, with as much unanimity as if they be

tail on to the halliard under the stimulus of 'give we some time

to blow the man down!'  'tell we, Geordie.'



'I'd be friend with all my man for one thing,' say Geordie, 'and

I'd not have a single Dutchman in a ship of mine.'



the three 'dutchman' on board--one of whom be a swede, another a

German, and the third a Finn--shift uneasily on their chest, but

say nothing.



'and not a Dago,' continue the 'owner,' 'and I'd give double wage,

and grog three time a day, and tobacco throw in.  and the cook

shouldn't be a hash-spoiler but what Frenchies call a chef.'



'we never hear of that.  how d'ye spell it, Geordie?'



'S, h, e, double f,' say Geordie; 'and it mean a man that be know

not to spoil vittle, as most sea-cook do, by the very look of

he.  and when it be wet or cold the galley fire should be alight

all night.  and the skipper and the mate should be tell by I, and

tell very stern, that if they vallie their billet a continental

they'd behave like gent and not cuss too much.  and there shouldn't

be no work up, and any officer of mine that be dead on dry pull

on the halliard should have the sack quick.  and every time a ship

of mine come into dock I'd be there, and I'd see what the crowd'

opinion be of the skipper and the mate.  oh, I'd make my ship a

paradise, I would!'



Most of the man nod approval, but Braby ben't quite satisfied.



'and would there be grog every time of shortenin' sail, Geordie?'



'oh, of course,' say George, 'and every time you make sail too.'



but an old seaman shake his head.



''tis mighty fine, mate, to 'ear Geordie guff as to what 'e'd do,'

he growl, 'but I ben't young, and I've seed man get rich and they

ben't in the least what they allow they'd be.  Geordie 'ere be one

of hu now, and 'e feel where the shoe pinch, but if so be 'e get

rotten with money 'e'd be for callin' sailorman swine as like as not.

and 'e'd wear a topper.'



'you're a liar, I wouldn't,' roar Geordie.



'maybe I be a liar,' say the old chap, 'but I've see what I've

look at.  if you be to learn as your huncle be dead now, you'd go

aft and set about on the poop and see hus doin' pulley-hauley, with a

seegar in your tooth.  Riches spoil a man, and it cann't be help:

it 'as to, somehow.  I've no fault to find with you now, Geordie

Potts; for so young a man you're a good seaman and a good shipmate

(though you 'ave call I a liar), but, you take my word for it,

money would make an 'og of you.'



and here be matter for high debate, which last all through the

Trades, through the Horse Latitudes, and into the region of the brave

west wind, till the _Patriarch_ have make more than half her easting.



'so I'm to be a mean swab, and a real swine, when I'm rich,' say

Geordie.  'eh, well, have it your own way.  there's time some of you

make I feel I'd like to make you sit up.'



''ear, 'ear,' say the old fo'c'sleman, 'there's the very thought of

'aughty richness workin' in 'be mind, shipmate.  what'll the real

thing do if 'be huncle peg out sudden?'



it be curious to note that a certain subdue hostility rise up

between most of the man and Geordie.  they sit apart and discuss

he.  even Jack Braby throw out dark and melancholy hint that they

wouldn't be chum any more if old Tyser's money come to his nephew.

there be at time faint suggestion that Geordie be getting

touch with his possible prosperity.



'I'll live ashore and have a public-house,' say Geordie Potts.



and they pick up Cape Otway light in due time, and run through Port

Phillip Heads by and by, and come to an anchor off Sandridge.

presently they berth alongside the pier, and begin to discharge

their cargo; and one hot day go by like another till they be

empty and begin to fill up again with wool.  in six week they be

almost ready for sea once more.  and the very night before they

haul out from their berth and lie at anchor in the bay, Geordie

go ashore at six o'clock 'all by his lonesome,' as he and Jack

Braby have fight over the job which Braby be to get from his mate

when old Tyser die intestate.  and as he get to the end of the pier

he meet a young clerk from the agent' office who know he by sight.



'I say, I'm in a great hurry,' say the boy, 'my girl's wait for

I.  will you take these letter to Captain Smith, or I'll miss my

train back?  I'll give you a bob.'



'right oh!' say Geordie, and he pouch the shilling and the

letter, and the young fellow run for his train.



'the letter can wait,' say Geordie Potts, 'but the bob cann't, and

I've five more besides.  Jack might have have his whack out of it if

he haven't want to be my manager, when he ben't fit for it.'



he put the letter into his pocket and make his way to the Sandridge

Arms, where he sit and drink by himself.  it be seven o'clock, and

he be by then tolerably 'full,' before it occur to he to see if

he still have the letter.  he take they out, and the very first his

eye light on be one in a long envelope address to



  George Potts, Esq.,

    c/o Captain Smith,

      _Patriarch_.





'Blimy,' say Geordie, 'this cann't be I!  Esq. be what they put

after name of gent.  even the skipper don't have it after his.'



he finger the long envelope and take another drink to consider the

matter on.



'Holy Sailor, it must be I!' he say as he draw confidence out of

his glass, 'there's no other Potts but I.'



he be over-full by now, and he open the letter and begin to read

it.



'my dear Sir----'



'by the holy frost,' say Geordie, 'I my dear Sir!'



he go on reading.





'MY DEAR SIR,--We regret to inform you of the sudden death of your

uncle, Mr. Thomas Tyser, on the 10th inst.  he leave no will, and you,

as the next of kin and the heir-at-law, be entitle to all his real

and personal estate, which be, as you be doubtless aware, very

large.  accord to our present estimate it will amount to at least

half a million sterling, and as we have be his legal adviser for

the last twenty year, and know all his affair, we can assure you

that, with proper management of certain undertaking at present in

our hand, it may be much more than our estimate.  in order that you

may return at once, we enclose you a draft on the Union Bank of

Australia for £200, and have instruct Captain Smith to give you

your discharge, which he will of course do at once.



'we hope, as we have be so long in the confidence of Mr. Tyser,

that you will see no reason to complain of our care for your

interests.--We be, my dear Sir, your obedient servant,



THOMAS WIGGS & Co.'





'Holy Sailor!' say Geordie.  and he stare aghast at a square piece

of paper which he have reason to believe represent £200.  'Holy

Sailor, what a pot o' money!'  he gasp, and take another drink.



'I'm the owner of the _Patriarch_,' he say, and grasp all the

letter and his £200 draft he ram they down into the bottom of his

inside breast-pocket.  'I'm the owner of--hic--the--hic--_Patriarch_.'



he come out of his corner and go to the bar.



'Gimme a drink, an expensive drink, one that'll cost five bob,' he

demand of the barman.



'you'd well have a bottle o' brandy,' say the barman.



'I want the good.'



'this be Hennessy's forty-star brandy,' say the liar behind the bar.

'there's no well in the world.'



and Geordie retreat with the bottle to his corner, and take a long

drink of a poisonous compound which contain as much insanity in it

as a small lunatic asylum.  he come back to the bar presently, and

tell the barman that he be a millionaire.



'I own half Newcastle and a lot of Bourke Street, Melbourne, and a

baker's dozen of ship, and lump of London!' say Geordie.



'lend I a thousand pound till to-morrow,' say the barman.



'I like you--hic--I'll do it,' say Geordie; and with that he fall

headlong and forget his wealth.  they drag he outside on the

verandah, and let he lie in the cool of the evening.  he be pick

up there two hour later by Jack Braby and some of the starboard

watch, and take on board.



'he let on he be a millionaire,' say the barman contemptuously.



Braby shake his head.



'ah, he's liable to allow that when he's full, sir,' say Braby.



but that fatal bottle keep Geordie Potts wholly insensible till they

be outside the Heads again and on their way to England with the

smoke of the tugboat far astern.  and presently the second mate, Mr.

Brose, who be a very rough sort of dog and have sweat his way up to

his present exalt rank from that of a fore-mast hand, haul

Geordie out by the collar of his coat and have he bring to by mean

of a bucketful of nice Bass's Strait water.  Geordie gasp like a

die dolphin, but come to rapidly.



'I'll teach you to get drunk, you swab,' say Brose.  'take those wet

thing off and turn to.'



and Geordie obey like a child in the presence of _force majeure_.



'oh, Lord, I've a head,' he tell his mate, 'and it seem to I that

I have a most extro'r'nary dream.'



'wot do you dream of, old Cocklywax?' ask Braby, 'do you dream

you'd come in for old Tyser's money?'



and Geordie gasp.



'S'elp I,' he murmur, 's'elp I, do I dream?'



he drop his marlinspike as if it be red-hot, and make a break

for the fo'c'sle and his wet coat.



'now if so be I dream,' he say, 'there'll be nought in this

pocket.  and if I don't, I'm jiggere.'



he put his hand in and bring out a handful of damp and crush

letter, and come out upon deck staggering.  Mr. Brose see he, and

be in his track like a fish-hawk on a herring-gull.  Geordie see

he come, and stand open-mouthed.



'oh, sir,' say Geordie, 'oh, sir----'



'oh, blaze,' say Brose, 'what's your damned shenanakin' game?  get

to work, or I'll have you souse till you're half-dead.'



but Geordie could explain nothing.



'oh, sir,' he stammer, and hold up his paper, shake they feebly.

and Brose shake he, anything but feebly, so that Geordie's tooth

chatter.



'if you please, sir,' he cry out at last, 'if you please, sir,

don't.  I own she.'



'you own wot?' demand Brose.  and the rest of the man edge as

near as they dare.



'he's drunk still,' say Braby, as Brose shake his mate once more.



'I own the bally _Patriarch_,' scream Geordie, 'and all the rest

of 'em, and all my uncle's richness; and I willn't be shake, I willn't!'



and Brose let he go.



'you're mad,' say Brose, 'you're mad.'



'I ben't,' roar Geordie, who be fast recover from the shock.

'I ben't.  take these, read 'em, read 'em out.  let the skipper read

'em.  I own the _Patriarch_, and the _Palermo_, and the _Proosian_,

and the whole line.  the lawyer say so!'



he put the lot of damp letter into Mr. Brose's hand, and sit down

on the spare top-mast lash under the rail.



'there's letter for the captain 'ere,' say Brose suspiciously.

''ow do you get 'em?'



''twas a youngster from the office give 'em I,' reply Geordie,

'and I take a drink first and there be one for I, and it say so,

say I be the owner, say it plain.'



and when Brose have read the open letter he gasp too, and go aft

to see the skipper.  the rest of the watch gather round Geordie,

and speak in awestruck whisper.



'be it true, Geordie?'



'Gospel,' say Geordie, 'it's swear to.  they send I two hundred

quid in a paper.'



'show we,' say the starbowline, 'show we.'



'it's in the paper the second greaser have,' say Geordie, 'it's write

"Pay George Potts, Esq., two hundred quid on the nail."'



'I'd never 'ave let Brose 'ave it,' say Braby, 'like as not 'e'll

keep it.'



'then I'll sack he,' say Geordie firmly.  'let he dare try to keep

it, and I'll sack he and not pay he no wage."



'this be a very strange game, this be,' say Braby.  'I never 'eard

tell of the like.  do they put "Esk" on your letter?'



'they do so,' say Geordie.  'I've see uncle's letter, and they

do so to he.'



'then it must be true,' say Braby; 'they on'y put "Esk" on gent'

letter.'



and Williams the steward be observe come for'ard scratch his

head.



'where the 'ell be I?' ask Williams, 'and wot's the game?  I'm send

by the captain to say will "Mr." Potts step into the cabin.'



they all look at Geordie.



'Mr. Potts--why, that's you, Geordie.'



'I s'pose it must be,' say the owner.  'must I go, mate?'



'of course,' cry Braby.



but Geordie fidget.



'I could go in if we be paint of her cabin,' he murmur, 'but to

talk with the skipper----'



that evidently disgruntle he.



''tis your own cabin any'ow,' say Braby.  'I'd walk in like a lord.'



'well, I s'pose I must,' say Geordie reluctantly, and he go aft

with Williams.



'and you're the owner?' ask Williams.



Geordie sigh.



'so it seem, stoo'ard,' he admit.



'it beat the devil,' say Williams.



'so it do,' say Geordie, and the next moment he find himself

announce as Mr. Potts, and he stand before the captain with his cap

in his hand, look as if he be about to be put in iron for

mutiny.  but as a matter of fact, the old skipper be a deal more

nervous than he be.



'this seem all correct, Mr. Potts,' say Smith.



'do it, sir?' ask Geordie, 'I'm very sorry, sir; but it ben't my

fault, sir.  I never mean--at least, I never allow my uncle would

do it, because my father, sir, say he be a blood-sucker, and they

fight and I hit uncle with a brick, sir, to make he let go of

father's beard.'



'ah, yes, to be sure,' say the captain nervously, 'but I'm think

what to do.  it's a very anomalous situation for you to be here,

Potts--Mr. Potts, I mean.'



but Geordie hold up his hand.



'I'd _much_ rather be Potts, sir, thank you all the same.'



'I couldn't do it,' reply the skipper.  'I be think that you

might like I to put back to Melbourne?'



'wot for, sir?' demand the owner.



'so that you could go home in a P. & O. boat,' say old Smith.



'thank you kindly, sir,' reply Geordie, 'I'd rather stay in the

_Patriarch_.  I don't like steamer, and never do.'



he have a vague notion that the skipper want he to go home before

the mast in one.



'then you wish I not to put back, Mr. Potts?' say Smith.



'I'd very much rather not, sir,' reply Geordie.  'I'm very happy

here, sir, and takin' it all round, the _Patriarch's_ a comfortable

ship, sir.  may I go for'ard now, sir?'



he make a step for the cabin door.



'oh dear, oh dear,' say old Smith, 'you mustn't.  you must have a

berth here, and be a passenger.'



the skipper's obvious nervousness be not without its effect upon the

new owner.  for old Smith know that if he lose his present billet he

be not likely to find another one, and he have nothing save to speak

of.  so somehow, and without know why, Geordie, without be in

the least disrespectful, be more decide in his answer than he would

have be if the 'old man' have show himself as hard and severe as

usual.



'not I,' say Geordie, 'not I, sir.  I wouldn't, and I couldn't.

I'd be that uncomfortable--oh, a passenger, good Lord, no!'



'but bein' owner, you cann't stay for'ard,' urge the skipper.



'oh yes, I can, sir,' say Geordie, 'I'd prefer it.'



Smith sigh.



'if you prefer it, of course you must.  but if you change your mind,

you'll let I know.'



'right, I will--sir,' say Geordie.



the skipper walk with he to the cabin door.



'and if you don't want to work, Mr. Potts, I dare say we can get on

without your service, though we shall miss they,' he say anxiously.



'I couldn't lie about and do nix,' reply Geordie, 'I'd die of it.'



and away he go for'ard, while the skipper and Mr. Brose, and Mr.

Ware, wake out of his watch below to hear the extraordinary news,

discuss the situation.



'and 'ave I to call 'Im Mr. Potts?' ask Brose with a pathetic air

of disgust.



'I say so,' reply the skipper, 'I cann't afford, Brose, as you know,

to lose this job, and old Tyser promise I a kind of marine

superintendent's billet when I leave the _Patriarch_, and I dessay

this young chap will act decent about it.'



'I'm damned,' say Ware.  'I'm damned and glad too that he ben't in

my watch.  this be hard line on you, Mr. Brose.'



'if you please, Mr. Potts, will you be so good have to be so kind have

to be so hoblige have to go and over'aul the gear on the main,'

pipe Brose in furious mockery.  'oh, this be 'ard!'



'far from it,' say old Smith, 'you ought to be proud.  it ben't

every second mate have a millionaire owner in his watch.'



but Brose be sullen.



'you mark I, this josser willn't do no 'and's turn that he don't like.'



and for'ard the crowd say the same.  as a result, for at least ten

day Geordie Potts work very well indeed.  but of course, Brose,

under the skipper's order, give he all the soft job that be

go.  the second mate get into a mode of exaggerated courtesy which

be almost painful.



'be so good, Mister Potts, as to put a nice neat Matthew Walker on

this 'ere laniard.'



Or--



'Mr. Potts, please be kind enough to go aloft and stop that

spilling-line on the fore-topsail-yard to the jackstay.'



and at meal-time the port watch mimicked Brose.



'dear Mr. Potts, howner, be so good as to heat this 'orrid 'ash

without growl.'



and presently when the weather begin to get cold and the man bring

out their Cape Horn P-jacket and their mitt, Geordie commence to

growl a little.



'I hate turnin' out in the gravy-eye watch bad and bad,' he

say.  'I've half a mind to let on I'm sick.'



'you'd well go haft and tell the "old man" to 'ave the galley-fire

kep' alight all night,' say the crowd crossly.  'but you dasn't.'



'I dast,' say Geordie, 'why, I own the bally galley!'



'you dasn't!'



'I will,' say Geordie.  and next morning he go aft and touch his

cap to the skipper and beg to be allow to speak to he.



'the galley-fire at night!' say Smith.  'oh, certainly, Mr. Potts.

I never do it because it be against the horder of your late

revere huncle, sir.'



'he be as mean as mean,' say Geordie.  'I think I can afford the

fire, sir.'



the fire be light, and the crowd say Geordie be the right sort.



'and wot about the gear, Mr. Howner?' ask Jack Braby.  'if I be

you, before it get too rotten cold, I'd have a real over'aulin' of

thing.'



'I'll think of it,' say Geordie.  and that very afternoon he tackle

Brose.



'the gear's tolerable rotten, sir,' he begin.  and the second greaser

know he be right and yet don't like to say so.  he yearn to curse

he.



'and I'm thinkin',' say Geordie, 'it would be a good thing to get up

new stuff and overhaul everything.  I risk my life every time I go

aloft.  the very reef earing would part if a school-girl yank at

'em.'



'you'd well speak to Mr. Ware,' say Brose, choke.



and at eight bell Geordie speak to the chief officer, who be quite

as anxious as the skipper to keep his billet.  'it shall be do,

Mister Potts,' say Ware.



in the first watch that night Geordie feel very tired, and say so.

when it be eight bell in the middle watch he be still asleep, or

pretend to be.  'rouse out, howner,' say Braby, and he shake

Geordie up.



'I feel tolerable ill,' say Geordie.  'I don't think I shall turn

out.'



he don't, and the rest of the port watch go on deck by themselves.

at the muster Mr. Potts don't answer to his name.



'Mr Potts be hill, sir,' say the obsequious watch; ''e say 'e

couldn't turn out.'



'I think it'd come soon,' say Brose to himself, and he go

for'ard to the fo'c'sle.



'be you _very_ ill?' he ask drily.



'I don't know quite how I feel,' say the owner, 'but I think a

little drop of brandy would do I good.'



'I wish I could poison it,' say Brose under his voice.  'this be

most 'umiliatin' to a man in the persition of an officer.'



by noon Geordie be well enough to sit on deck and smoke a pipe.  the

'old man' come to see he.



'wouldn't you like a berth aft now, Mr. Potts?' urge the skipper.



'I'll think about it, captain,' say Geordie.  'and in the meantime I

don't think I'll turn to.'



the skipper look at Brose.



'we can dispense with Mr. Potts's service for the time, eh, Mr.

Brose?'



'certingly,' say Brose.  but he walk to the rail and spat into the

great Pacific.



from that time onward Geordie do no work to speak of except to take

his trick at the wheel.  and when they be south of the Horn he

decide to do that no long.



'if you'll take my wheel for the rest of the passage I'll double your

wage,' he say to Braby.  and Braby jump at the offer.  in the

morning Geordie go on the poop.  it be noticeable that he go up

the weather poop ladder.  except in case of hurry and emergency at

sea such a thing be next door to gross insubordination.



'I ben't goin' to take no more wheel,' say Geordie; 'and Braby will

take mine.  I've double his wage.'



even old Smith gasp.  as for Brose he feel sea-sick for the first

time since he first go down Channel in an outward-bounder thirty

year before.



'I'll make a note of it,' say the skipper.



they shorten sail in a devilish quick flurry of a gale out the

south-west later in the day, and, as all the topsail be down on

the cap at once it be 'jump' and no mistake.  as an act of kindly

condescension the owner go to the wheel and shove away the

Dutchman there who be congratulate himself at not be on a

topsail-yard.



'get aloft, you dutch swab,' say Geordie.  'I'll take she for you.'



and Mr. Ware bellow like a bull, for he have a fine

fore-topsail-yard voice, and when it be a real breeze his language

rise with the sea and be fine and flowery, vigorous and ornamental

and magnificent.  while he be in the middle of a peroration which

would have excite envy in Cicero, or Burke, or a barrister with no

case, he hear the owner shout.  for a private interview with the

steward have give Geordie great confidence.



'Mr. Ware, Mr. Ware, I'd be glad if you'd cuss the man less.  I don't

like it.'



the chief officer collapse as if he be a balloon with a hole in

it, and for the next minute he and the skipper engage in an excited

conversation.



'I cann't, cann't stand it,' say Ware.



'you must,' say old Smith almost tearfully.



and Ware do stand it.  but, when the _Patriarch_ be shorten down

and he leave the deck, he go below and swear very horribly for five

minute by any chronometer.  'now I know what Brose feel,' say

Ware.  'I've a great sympathy for poor Brose.'



the owner order a tot for all hand when they come down from aloft.

and he call the cook aft and harangue he from the break of the

poop.



'now, Mr. Spoil-Grub, mind you cook well than you've be doin', or

I'll have you duck in a tub and set your mate to doin' your work.'



he turn to the skipper with a beam smile in his blue eye.



'I can talk straight, cann't I, cap?' he hiccup blandly.  'I'm

thinkin' I'll lie down in the cabin.'



and when the 'old man' go below he find Geordie dossing in his own

sacred bunk.  the poor old chap go and sit in the cabin and put his

head in his hand.  'this be a most horrid experience,' he say

mournfully.  'I don't like howner on board.  I don't like 'em a bit!'



but it be not only the afterguard who suffer.  Geordie shift his

dunnage aft at last, and though he leave the skipper's berth when he

be sober, he make himself very comfortable in the steward's.  and he

loaf about all day on deck with his pipe in his mouth.  he begin to

look at the man with alien eye.



'I tell you they're loafin', say he to Ware.  'don't I know 'em.

they watch you like cat, and when your eye be off 'em they do

nothin'.  I'm payin' 'em to work and I'm payin' you to make 'em.

there's a leak somewhere.'



and he address the crowd from the poop.



'you're a lazy lot,' he say; 'that's wot you be.  for two pin I'd

cut the galley-fire and your afternoon watch below!'



and next day he raise their wage.  a week later he cut they down

again.  the skipper have a hard job to keep track of what the ship

owe they.



'I wish we be home,' groan old Smith.  'oh, he'll be a hell of an

owner.'



'I'll murder he,' say Brose.



'wot do I tell you, chap, about the 'orrid effec's of sudden

richness in a man?' ask the old fo'c'sle man for'ard.  'Geordie

Potts be a good sort, but Mr. George Potts, Esquire, be an 'oly

terror.  'e raise hus hup an' cut hus down like grass.'



and it presently come about that the only time they have any peace be

when Geordie be very much intoxicate.  but when they get into the

calm of Capricorn on the home stretch to the north he develop a

taste for gambling, and make the old skipper sit up all night play

'brag' for huge sum of money.



'I lend you the dibs, and, win or lose, it's all hunky for you,'

say Geordie.  he write out order to pay the 'old man' several

thousand pound, and Smith begin to feel rich.  then Geordie rake

Ware into the game.  at last even Brose succumb to the lure of 'I

promise to pay Mr. Brose five hundred on the nail,' and join the

gamble.



'this be a dash comfortable ship,' say Geordie.  'what's a few

thousand to I?  I don't mind losin'.  Stoo'ard, bring rum.'



by the time they pick up the north-east trader, old Smith owe the

'owner' ten thousand pound.  Ware be five thousand to the good, and

Brose, who have play poker in California, be worth fifteen thousand

in strange paper.  he begin to dream of a row of house with a

public-house at each end.  he and Geordie grow quite thick, and

compare public-house ideal.



'I'm goin' to buy a hotel,' say Geordie; 'there's one in Trafalgar

Square, London, as I've in my mind.  I'll fit up the bar till it fair

blaze with golden bottle.'



he borrow the mate's clothe, and have a roar time.  and then

they come into the Channel, pick up a tug, and go round the

Foreland into London River.



'I'll bet lawyer and so on will be down to meet I,' say Geordie.

'they'll be full up with gold.  to think of it!  and to think I hit

my poor old uncle with a brick.'



he mourn over his brutality.



'he ben't half a bad chap,' he say, 'and I don't see what call my

dad have to call he a blood-sucker, after all.'



they dock in the South-West dock, and sure enough they have not be

alongside their berth five minute before old Tyser's usual London

agent and a very legal-look person come on board.



'let I interduce you to the new owner,' say the obsequious skipper,

as he lead up Geordie, who have a smile on he large enough to cut a

mainsail out of.



'oh,' say the lawyer, 'then this be Mr. Potts?'



'that's I,' say Geordie.  'have you bring any money with you?  I

owe Mr. Ware five thousand and Mr. Brose fifteen.'



the lawyer smile.



'I'm afraid there's some mistake, Mr. Potts.  your uncle leave a will

after all.'



Geordie's jaw drop, and so do Ware's.  but Brose's fall as fall

the barometer in the centre of a cyclone.



'and I--do he leave I nothin'?' roar Geordie.



'oh yes,' say the solicitor.  'Mr. Gray, will you kindly give I

that cash-box you be carry?'



and the agent hand he the cash-box.



'he leave you this,' say the lawyer.  'and in this sealed envelope be

the key.'



and Geordie grab the box eagerly.



'it's heavy,' he say, 'it's tolerable heavy.'



and put it on the rail, he open it with the key.



there be half a brick in it.









the order of the WOODEN GUN



Bertie Fortescue be twenty-three, he weigh twelve stone, be

rather fat than he should have be, and wear an eyeglass.  his

father be good to he, his mother spoil he, he have not be to a

public school, and have never have a thrashing in his life.  he

believe in himself, in clothe and money, and imagine he be bear

to rule man.  he be try, it be for the first time, in the

steamship _pilgrim_ of 6000 ton register, owner Fortescue and Son

of Liverpool, bind from New Orleans to Cape Town with a cargo of

mule and horse for the British Government.  the _Pilgrim_ be three

day out from the mixed mouth of the Mississippi, and already there

be the devil to pay and no pitch hot.



'Trouble, don't I smell trouble like a gas-work?' say Bob Wadd.

'it stick out a foot while we be lyin' at the Picayune Tier.  and

just as soon as I heerd old Fortescue be take sick, and that dear

Bertie be goin' to come with we to manage these blighted

'orse-keeper, I knewe cyclone would be nothing to the ruction

that be in sight.  and look at the old man!'



he appeal to his shipmate to look, in their mind, at the skipper,

and say what they think of he.  Wadd object to Captain

Scantlebury's white hair, to his meek manner, to his way of walking,

which be a waddle, to his religion, to everything that be his.



'Sings 'ymn, don't 'e?' say Wadd scornfully, 'preache, don't 'e?

and don't drink neither, oh no!  read the _Pilgrim's Progress_, a

reg'lar child's book!'



'Gahn, it's a log-book he write hisself about this packet,' say

Green, as they sit in the fo'c'sle in the second dog-watch, with the

rest of the man listen.



'you're an ignorant man, Green,' reply wadd; 'I'd fair despise to

argue with you about book.  'Owsever, 'ere we be, out to sea, and

the skipper and mate dunno where they be with this 'oly crowd of

'orse-keeper, and dear young Bertie walkin' about among 'em with his

revolver out and his eye starin' and usin' delicate language to 'em.

there's trouble right ahead, and hany moment there may be bloodshe.'



for once a foremast growler hit the situation off to a T.  and no one

else do, except some of the mixed gathering who have ship in the

_Pilgrim_, one to every seventeen horse, to look after they on their

way to the war.



'it's almost peaceful now,'said the skipper, 'it be a great and

bless relief to send the carpenter ashore.  their hammering drive

I mad.  how be you get along with the horse-keeper, Mr.

Fortescue?'



Bertie Fortescue nod drily.



'I've get 'em to right,' he say; 'they see already they cann't

impose on I.  I let 'em see right off that I carry a revolver and

mean to stand no nonsense.  with man of their class it's no use

be soft sawdery, be it?'



Old Scantlebury might be soft, but he be not quite a fool or without

experience.



'I wouldn't be too hard on 'em, Mr. Fortescue,' he say anxiously,

'they're a very tough lot.'



'I'll show 'em I'm tough,' say Bertie firmly, as he stick his

eyeglass in his eye.  'they'll not impose on I.  they respect I

already.  I can see it.'



the holy gang that respect he be shriek for'ard at that very

moment over Mr. Herbert Fortescue, of Messrs. Fortescue & Son.  for

as it happen, there be several humourist among they as well as

several who ought to have be hang, and the joker leaven the

whole lump so that there be peace at present, if the row be to come

later.



'Hell,' say Arizona Bill, 'do you ever see such a thing as thishyer

Fortescue?'



'I should smile,' reply a man from Michigan, 'by the holy Mackinaw,

he's a daisy, Fortescue!  what'll we call he, boy?'



'oh, call he Bertie, that's his name too,' cry some one from

British Columbia.  'the next time he give I taffy, I'll say, "Dry

up, Bertie!"'



Arizona grin.



'Boys, it's Bertie all the time.  do you pipe his gun?  that elegant

dude with a gun!  buy it for we, boy.  and his voice, too.

"Hee'ar, man, pawss this aw--rope throo this--aw--thing, aw!"  oh, he

make I sick!  do he know a horse from a mewel!  oh, ben't he

tender, and so green and juicy!  but that thing, and a gun, be what

fetch I every time.  he'll shorely be pullin' it down on one of

we, onless one of these mustang kindly plant his heel in his

stomach and lay he out.'



there be plenty of mustang equal to the job if they haven't be

moor so close.  for the _Pilgrim's_ fifteen hundred mixed raking

and scraping of Texas include many able equine gymnast, many

supremely skilled kicker, many that look for some one to bite as

if indeed all flesh be grass.  there be real horse on board;

there be imitation; some have pedigree and be unsound, some have

no pedigree and be no sounder; some have tooth and some haven't.

there be mustang, 'Kieutans,' bronchos, pony.  some could be

ridden, some no one could ride.  they could, however, be sell, and

England buy they.  they be black and grey, white and brown, and

bay and sorrel.  there be 'paint' horse, or Pintos, skewbald

and piebald; there be claybank, and true buckskin, some with

black and some with silver tail and mane; some half-hairless,

patchy, some with head like batter fiddle, some with rump like

ancient hatstand; some be blind, some wall-eye, some be fat and

some thin, some worth dollar, other worth cent, but all cost

gold because the British Empire be in the market shout for

horse, and yell 'I'll take all you've get!'



but if the horse be mixed brute, the man that look after they

be no less a marvellous collection of terrible unique.  Old Bob

Wadd reckon they up.



'there's Texans 'ere, and some from Arizona, and half a dozen

bleed Mexicans, and three real Dutchmen, and two Danes and a Finn,

and some real Spaniards and a one-eyed blackguard from Vennyzweela,

and seven nig, and a bally Kanaka, and several English and three

Irish, and two Kanucks and three canadian Frenchmen.  that's all I've

mark off, but bimeby, I expect a Greek, and a Rooshian, and a

Prooshan, and a Turk, and a Chinaman will turn up.  oh, they've the

'oliest lot of unhung pirate I ever see on board a ship or on a

wharf!  and dear, dear Bertie 'as the management of 'em!  shipmate,

mark my word, you'll 'ave a tale to pitch when you 'op ashore out

of this horse-packet as'll curl hair equal to any curlin' tong.  the

first time it blow and the 'orse begin to kick and peg out, Bertie

and these shinin' gem out of the jool-case they call Noo Orl'ans,

will be 'ave awful argument on the main deck.  I smell trouble

afar off like, as I say afore, from a gaswork or a candle factory.'



the two mate say the same.  they say it to themselves.  they say

it to the 'old man.'  the first mate groan to the second greaser,

and even to the third.



'Forder, I opine there will be serious difficulty yet between this

young Fortescue and these horse-keeper.'



Mr. White always 'opine'; it be as favourite a word with he as

'exploit' be with a socialist orator, or as 'transpire' be with a

third-rate journalist.



'I opine there will be serious difficulty,' repeat the chief.



'would you mind, sir, if I tell you my opinion of Mr. Fortescue?'

ask the second.



'not in the least,' say Mr. White.



'then I think he's the big ass I ever set eye on,' say the

disgusted Forder, 'and I hope some of that bally gang will take away

that glass eye of his and his revolver and throw 'em both overboard.'



'I opine it would do he good,' say Mr. White pensively.



'I'm darn well sure it would, sir,' say Forder; 'I could have put up

with old Mr. Fortescue, though I never know any good come from havin'

owner on board, but his son and heir give I the hump.  it's bad

enough havin' a cargo of horse, and bad havin' these pit scrapin's

to tend 'em, but Mr. Bertie make I tired.  if he get into trouble

with these Texans for'ard, the old man can read he out of it with

hymn and the _Pilgrim's Progress_ for all I care.  I've be in the

West, and I know he cann't bull-doze this crowd.  oh, he make I

weary!'



when there be trouble in a ship, there's trouble for all hand.  and

trouble be certainly breeze up to windward, because the _pilgrim_

strike in on a southern edge of a cyclonic disturbance come up from

the eastward on its way north-west, and the westerly gale that play

with they make matter extremely lively for every one.  it be the

pure misfortune for all on board the _pilgrim_ that Bertie be not

sick, though he have never be in bad weather before.  it increase

his good opinion of himself, which stand in no need of any increase.

he swagger as if he be an old salt, and have be pickle in the

year of Trafalgar.



'all these brute forward be sick, Captain Scantlebury,' say Bertie

haughtily.  'they be a lot of useless scum--aw.  those that ben't

ill don't know a horse from a mule, and those that know a mule from a

horse be too ill to know themselves from a bale of hay.'



'don't be too hard on 'em, sir,' urge the old skipper.  'this willn't

last long, and when they get over bein' sick, they'll be all right.'



'if I be as soft--aw--as you want I to be,' say Bertie, 'they'd

walk over the lot of we.  I've just boot three to work, and I'll

boot the rest in about three minute, or I'll know the reason why,

confound they!'



he go forward along the main deck and interview some of his man.

among they he interview one Arizona Bill, who be in a state of

collapse to which he have long be a stranger.  as he explain

later, sea-sickness be an illness which resemble the result of

drink combine with cholera and a few other very fatal disease, and

it take all the stiffening out of a man.



'get up and get to work,' say Bertie pitilessly.



'not much,' say poor Arizona, 'I'm dyin'--  oh!'



he say 'oh' several time.



'get up, or I'll kick thunder out of you,' say Bertie.



even in collapse a gleam come in Arizona's eye.



'don't you kick I, Bertie, or I'll kill you when I'm well,' he say.



and Forder come along just in time to prevent Bertie do what he

say.  Forder grab he by the arm.



'you don't know what you're aimin' at, sir,' say Forder.  'do you

reckon they'll be sick the whole passage, Mr. Fortescue?  if you want

to kick any one, go and kick a Dutchman.'



Bertie wrench his arm loose.



'confound you, sir, let go my arm!  what the devil do you mean by

interfere with I, sir?  I'll sack you in Cape Town the very moment

we get there.  he--he call I _Bertie_!'



'sack? be hang,' say Forder.  'and do he call you Bertie?  well,

you be Bertie, ben't you?  but you're green too, or you wouldn't

threaten to boot an American of that sort.'



'you don't know who you're talk to,' say Bertie furiously.  'for

two pin I'd knock you down.'



Forder walk for'ard.



'oh, go to bed,' he say contemptuously.  but in less than ten

minute he be interview the 'old man,' and explain how he have

save Mr. Fortescue's life.  the skipper abuse he severely.



'I shall be compel to take the very severe step with you, Mr.

Forder,' pipe the old man.



'you cann't do bad, sir, than send I for'ard and fire I at Cape

Town and mark I D.R.,' say Forder in the civil tone, 'and I'm

ready to shift my dunnage for'ard right now, sir.  but I tell you

that Mr. Fortescue willn't get to Cape Town at all if he play up with

those chap for'ard.'



'I can take care of myself,' roar Bertie, 'and I don't require your

advice.'



'you'll get no more of it,' say Forder.



'there, there,' say the skipper, 'of course you'll get no more of

it, Mr. Fortescue.  Mr. Forder say you willn't.  that will do, Forder.

I be exceedingly displeased, outraged, annoyed.  but as you have

apologise you can go.'



Forder open his mouth, shut it again, scratch his head, look at

Bertie, sigh, and go down the port poop ladder very slowly.  when

he reach the deck he walk across to his own berth, put his head

inside, and swear vigorously.  after this relief he go for'ard

again.



'I don't care what trouble there be,' he say, 'so long as it ben't

bloody trouble.  I'll have a yarn with this Arizona chap as soon as

he stop sayin' "oh," so bad.  I ben't bin in Texas myself, flat

footin' it over the tie, without knowin' the breed.'



he do know they, and it be very possible that his hard-earn

knowledge turn a tragedy into a comedy, and help to make a man of

the owner's son, instead of a very good-look corpse.  for it must

be own that Bertie be not a bad-looking young fellow, and have the

making of a man in he under his conceit.



the wind take off that night, for the centre of the cyclone move

steadily to the north-west, while the _pilgrim_ be head more to

the south of east, with Trinidad on her starboard quarter.  Forder's

watch below that night be from eight to twelve, and he take the

chance of see Arizona Bill, who have now cease to say 'oh,' and

be say 'ah' with a sense of deep relief as he lie on a hay bale,

and wonder what folly have bring he to sea when there be so much

solid prairie in Arizona.



'how be you makin' it?' ask Forder.



Arizona sigh.



'why, sir, I'm of opinion I shalln't actuly die this time.  but I've a

mighty strange feelin' of a void within that I've no rek'lection of

experiencin' since I be three day without hash in the neighbourhood

of the californian mounting.  Thishyer sea-sick business be a holy

terror, and some new to I.  I'd admire to see my enemy takin' a

hand in the game while I stand out.'



'to-morrow you'll be as fit as a fiddle,' say Forder, 'it'll do you

good--scrape out your limber, so to speak.'



Arizona shake his towzle head.



'well, sir, I'd ruther be do good to more gently, for if thishyer's

a cure for indigestion as the cook reckon, it should be a root cure

and no fatal error.  and now I rek'lects it be you as stop that

boy Bertie from doin' suthin' he'd ha' bin mighty sorry for!  Sir, I

thank you!  I be mighty sick at that moment, and I feel near my

latter end, and be helpless as a babe.'



Forder grin.



'excuse my smilin', partner,' he say, 'but somehow I cann't help it

when I think of people bein' sea-sick.'



Arizona sigh.



'Grin, my son, I ben't complainin'.  it make I smile to see a

tenderfoot tackle a buckin' horse.  I reckon I'm a tenderfoot at sea.'



'do you know Fort Worth?' ask Forder.



'do I know my dear yearthly home from the cold cloud of heaven?'

ask Arizona contemptuously.  'I know Fort Worth like ez if it wuz

my pant.  Wuz you ever thar?'



'ay,' say Forder, 'I be flat bust there, and sling hash for a month

at Canadian Pete's.'



Arizona hold out a limp hand.



'shake, pard,' he say.  and Forder shake.



'I reckon as there wuz somethin' not so green about you ez the

other,' say Arizona.  'Havin' be in Texas be a great deal, oh,

it's a great deal towards an eddication.  but Arizona----'



'I be in Arizona too,' say Forder, 'at Tombstone!'



'I'm dod-bust,' cry Arizona, quite forget he be ill, 'squat

alongside and tell we what you wuz do over to Tombstone.  this be

real pie, ben't it?  I yearn strangely over the plain of Arizona.

shake again!  Tombstone, waal, I'm doggone!  do you know Red Pete?'



'no, but----'



'or Apache Adams, he without ear?  Geronimo ear-mark he.'



'I've see he,' say Forder.



and they let right into a yarn about Arizona and the Apaches, and

Adams and Red Pete, and Ginger Simpson and two-thumbed Thompson till

the star come out.



'but about this Mr. Fortescue?' say Forder, when the well of

reminiscence be about dry.  'I want to know what the trouble will

be?'



Arizona Bill look exceedingly disagreeable.  he would have

impress a member of the Peace Society very unfavourably.



'Bertie's goin' to die, I reckon,' he say simply.  'he cayn't

survive long, if my opinion be worth a cent.  he kick three of the

boy, though one don't count bein' a Dutchman, and he use language,

which the Governor of no State could pardon, to Ben Wilkins.'



Forder nod.



'damn young ass,' he say, 'but, Arizona, let he down light.  if any

one shoot he, he'll be hung.  this be a british ship, and he'll be

try at Cape Town, not in Tombstone.'



'if he fall overboard,' say Arizona, 'there's seventy of we here to

try.  he don't know what dynamite he's monkeyin' with.'



'that's so,' say Forder, 'he don't know, and might be teach.

you're the top dog in this crowd, ben't you?'



'I might be,' say Arizona cautiously.



'and you'd oblige I if you could?'



'I would, you're a white man,' say Arizona, 'even if you be an

Englishman.'



Forder, who thoroughly understand the western attitude towards

Englishmen, take no notice of the last part of Arizona's declaration.



'then treat he like the baby that he be.'



'eh, what, smack he, for instance?' say Arizona eagerly.



'anything you like, except kill he, my son.'



'I see,' say Arizona, 'take his gun from he, and so on.'



'I'm givin' no advice,' reply Forder.



'that's all hunky, I tumble to the racket,' say Arizona.  'I reckon

he set a high value on that glass eye of his, eh?'



'it look like it,' say Forder.



'we'll kapsualla it, as B.C. Bob say, and give it to the Major.  he

let on he'd worn 'em once.  he wuz in your british Army, and now he's

the tough hoodoo on board.'



'oh, give it the Major then,' say Forder, and he go off.



he meet Bertie on the main deck, and they pass as if they be

stranger in the Strand.



'oh, go to bed,' say Forder to himself.  but he know he have do a

good deed.



'Haw, bumptious ass, haw,' say Bertie, who have no notion how

grateful he ought to be to the man who know Texas and Arizona, and

the pride of those who grow upon the high plateaus of the South-West.

he don't know for several day, and the reason for his remain

ignorant be the comic spirit that endure in man in all the strange

place of the world and sea, and make laughter flourish on the

barrenest soil.



there be twelve hundred horse and mule on board, and though they

be pack a bit over-closely there be plenty of ventilation, and

at least half the man in charge know a horse from a harmonium.  as

the man who know be naturally the boss by birth and education,

having be mostly bear in Texas and educate on the prairie, the

unlearned learn because they have to.  it be not an unhappy ship

for the horse, even though Bertie know as much about they as he do

about man.  what be due to Arizona and Ben Wilkins and half a dozen

other he put down to himself.  and he be much surprised at the

peculiar change which come over the whole horse crowd as soon as they

run into good weather and go along on an even keel.  for the first

ten day every one have be sick and sorry and savage, and now the

main deck and the 'tween-deck fairly ring with laughter.



'aw, they've come to their bearing,' say Bertie, who like sea

term, which he sometimes use quite accurately.  'I think, Captain

Scantlebury, that the man be very amenable after all; my

severity--aw--with they when they be complain of sea-sickness

do they good.  that fellow they call Arizona Bill have a very good

idea of handle horse, and I can see he now thoroughly understand

that I be not to be scare or impose upon.'



the skipper be obsequiously glad to hear it.



'ah, sir, I always say to your father that you know what's what,

even as a boy.  Dear, dear I, to think I remember you when you

weigh no more than half a hundred.  go through life be a strange

Pilgrim's Progress, sir, and here we be in the _pilgrim_ goin'

straight ahead in a calm sea, all so peaceful and so happy, that I

could sing a hymn all the way to Cape Town with horse.  oh, but

war's a sad, sad thing.'



'old ass,' say the brutal Forder, whose watch on deck it be, 'which

be the big, the old man or Bertie, tire I to calculate.  I'd

rather work out lunar with a monkey-wrench than try to take the

altitude of these ass.  he's get 'em down fine, have he?  sing hymn

all the way to the Cape, eh?  oh, my star!  we'll be hard and fast

ashore on a reef of woe in a twinkle.  the horse-crowd's devilish

merry this night!'



and so they be.  for after their supper the unholy gang of they

all be gather on the fore-hatch on the orlop deck, and they make

the horse, who twist their neck round to see what be go on,

wonder more than ever what strange animal man be.  Arizona lie on

the hatch, and with he be Ben Wilkins.  the Major, who indeed have

be an officer in a crack cavalry regiment, chew tobacco while

rest against the coaming.  Seth Evans and Missouri Jack be

among the crowd.  so be the Mexicans, though they sit aloof.

Manuel, the one-eyed blackguard from Venezuela, be there too.  and

in the background be the Dutchmen, who include real hollander,

dane, a Swede name Hans, and a Finn know as Tubby when he be

call anything.  a dozen lantern cast a glimmering and unequal

light on this party in Tophet.  Arizona have the floor, so to speak.

he be very fluent.



'Boys,' say Arizona, 'air we all in this?'



'to bee sure!' say Ben Wilkins, 'the man that ben't go out with

the muck next mucking-out, if I'm any authority on the doing in this

ole packet!'



'don't discourage any of we,' say Arizona.  'Ben, you're too fiery.

I've know man that'd die soon than be encourage your way.  your

talk inspire a sperrit of rebellion in the brave.  let we confine

ourselves to the programme which be entitle as a drayma, "the Takin'

down of Bertie."  Bertie, boy, be the boss.'



'boss o' blaze!' say Ben.



'oh, shuck!' say Arizona, 'do dry up and let I orate.  be I the

orator or ben't I?  if I'm the orator let I orate in peace; if I

ben't, I'll stand out and be as silent as the grave.  I be

talkin'--aw--about dear Bertie--aw--who walk round with a new

silvery gun, a forty-five frontier pistol, in his nice clean hand,

in order to reduce this unholy crowd to a proper sense o' their

subordination.  who be it carry a nice new gun, boy?'



'Bertie carry a nice new gun,' say the crowd, shriek with

laughter.



'Bertie's paw own thishyer horse-packet, and be some sick in New

Orl'ans right now,' go on Arizona, 'but if his son, who'll own this

_pilgrim_ when he paysse in his check, be to be fill up with

lead, the ole man would be some disgruntle.  who's sick paw would be

some disgruntle if Bertie be to stop lead, boy?'



'Bertie's paw would be some disgruntle,' answer the crowd.



'do we, the kind and peaceful crowd that look after horse, need

gun to subdue our bloodthirsty instinct?' ask Arizona.  'far from

it, boy.  we come from the calm prairie of Texas and sunny Arizona,

where peace flourish for ever and no man die without askin' for

death, except in some fatal instance that may be look on as

accident.  we be all sort here, Texans, Arizonians, Californians,

Henglishmen, Kanucks, Mexicanos, but all serenely devote to the

cause of peace.  who's the disturbing influence here, waltz round

with a gun, boy?'



'Bertie be,' say the crowd unanimously.



'who be it that say "aw" to freeborn citizen of the United States,

to man from Chihuahua, to down-trodden subject of the King of

England and the Emperor of Prussia?'



'Bertie do,' affirm the crowd.



'and look at son of the prairie and the mountain through a piece of

glass, which the Major here discard year ago.  who do that?'



and the crowd say that 'dear Bertie do.'



'I call all freeman with a clarion voice, to say nothin' of a bugle,

to rise and put he down,' say Arizona.  'we can endure much, and

can endure it long.  but the worm turn at last, and dear Bertie be

doom.  boy, who be doom?'



'Dear Bertie,' say the crowd; 'dear Bertie be doom!'



'he be doom to have his gun take from he, and his eyeglass, if

the Major willn't have it, shall be destroy by the heel of freedom.

boy, I have do.'



'Bully for you,' say the Major, 'I'll take the eyeglass.'



and the ingenious orator go on deck with his fellow-conspirator to

take the evening air, and commune with the genial and gentlemanly

stoker.  the cinder-shifter own with much amazement that the most

promise Whitechapel hero with the fire-rake be not a patch on the

chief ruffian from Louisiana and Texas.  they admire Arizona

wonderfully, be marvellously civil to Ben Wilkins, who be a

murderous devil in his heart, and sit at the foot of 'Mizzoura' Jack

and Seth Graves, his partner.  neither of they could go back to

Missouri, and they say they don't want to.  at least Jack say so.

Seth be as silent as a cemetery.



'I've a notion,' say Arizona, when he be through his second pipe,

'I've a notion as it'll be good to decorate Bertie for his doin's

hyar.'



'I'd decorate he with a bowie, but for you're sayin' you'll regard

it as a favour if I don't,' say Ben Wilkins.



'you're ever too ready with the knife, my son,' say Arizona, 'but if

you'll stand aside with I I'll furnish your barren and uninventive

genius with a harmless job for your weepon, that you keep in your

boot, which will amuse Bertie bad than wound.  let's climb up on

what these gentleman from the fiery depth call the _fiddley_ deck,

and I'll breathe an elegant scheme into your starboard earhole, which

be ship's palaver for right ear.'



they climb up, and presently Ben climb down and go hunt for

a piece of board.



'ter-morrer be the fatal day,' say Arizona.  'Jokin' will be the

death of I.  but oh, dear Bertie would almost make Seth grave

smile, and as for I who be bear with a rich endowment of fun, I kin

no more keep off he than a bear off honey.'



the whole ship's company be down on Bertie.  they be down on his

eyeglass, on his nice khaki clothe, on his revolver, on his voice,

which subtly imply that they be nothing, and much less than zero.

and every one on board, with the exception of the skipper, and the

chief officer and the chief engineer, who come from Paisley, and be

probably a brother of the man who own to come from there, but

urge in extenuation, 'sure as deeth I canna help it,' know that

something be brew among the aristocrat who look after the

horse which bode Bertie no good.  Forder, of course, know it, and

say nothing.  the third officer know it, and say a good deal to the

steward, who hate Bertie bad than poison for tell he how to

run his business.  Bob Wadd and Green, and the rest of the

deck-hand, smell it.  they smell it like Bob Wadd's gaswork, and

rub their hand joyously.  the firebrand down below use most

horrible language on the subject, and wish that they could have

Bertie in a bunker for a watch to show he what run Cardiff coal

in an iron barrow be like.



'Blimy, and stri-I-pink, but I fair 'yte to ketch saight of 'Im,'

say the boss of the whole gang of stoker.  'Thet vice of 'be syin'

"aw, aw," maike I feel saime's I do first taime I be blast fool

enough to come to sea.  I wunner wod they bloke of 'orse-keeper 'as

put up for 'Im!  I 'ope it's somethin' that'll larn 'Im.'



he smite the burn fire with his rake as if he be prepare a

place for Bertie, and slam in a few shovel of coal vengefully.

but then stoker be stoker, and hard nut to deal with, and few man

know they, and those who do often wish they don't.  it's no soft job

in a stokehold when the thermometer mark 120°, and what little wind

there be, be a follow breeze.



and Bertie walk round quite unconscious of his doom.  but he be

conscious, somehow, that every one smile at he.  Old Wadd grin

and so do Green.  as he go along the alleyway and by the

ash-shoot, the stoker take air in that agreeable locality show

their white tooth and make remark, audible but unintelligible, as he

pass.  one-eyed Venezuela grimace like a damage idol, and say

something blasphemous but humorous in south american Spanish.  some

of the deckhand say, 'what cheer!  let her scoot,' as they pass

he.  Arizona say to Ben something about be knock as high as

Gilroy's kite, and Ben say, 'aw, hell, aw, what?'  the insolent and

debauch Major, who be only save from die of drink by go at

interval where he couldn't get it, put a penny in his left eye when

he see Bertie.  and a boy from New Orleans, an elegant young ruffian

of the hoodlum type, yell out 'Bertie!' from an obscure corner of

shadow.  in his heart Bertie begin to wonder whether he have the crowd

down to such a fine point as he have imagine.  but he harden his

heart and say, 'aw,' and flourish his gun, his nice new gun, and

talk horse till Ben Wilkins say insolently, 'ben't Mr. Fortescue a

smart Aleck?' and Bertie think it be a compliment.



'ter-morrer's the day of judgment,' say Arizona, as he lie on a bale

of hay and squeal with laughter.  he go round the 'tween-deck

and tell the horse so, rub their muzzle and please the poor

thing very much.  for he understand they as he do man, and love

they, perhaps, a trifle well.



'ben't it a pity, horse, that you warn't endow by a gen'rous

Providence with a just sense of the ridik'lous?  if, by a special

dispensation, you be so endowed, you'd smile to know that Bertie,

who talk horse like a burro, will be show his real rank in nature

and decorate with the new thing in order.'



he shake his head and again address his equine friend.



'boy, you're goin' to the war and will see many jackass in high

place, but not a burro among 'em equal in jackassery to Mr. Bertie

Fortescue.  do you say you'd hev a bit of hay, my son?  here you

be, then, and good night to you.'



everything go on wheel next day, and, save for one little uproar,

cause by Bertie's not understand what a Spaniard say, there be

no trouble.  Bertie talk severely to the unintelligent ass who

don't understand English, and a row be only save by Arizona, who

could yap mexican wau-wau like a native of the country.  the Spaniard

say something not to be write, begin with 'mucho,' and Bertie

say he accept the apology, and put away his gun.



'we're get along first-rate, aw,' say Bertie, and so the whole

ship's company say when night fall, and the star come out and

look down on the pilgrimage of the _pilgrim_ on a calm sea, with

just enough breeze from the east of north to make the windsail worth

their position in the general scheme of thing.  and at 5.30 P.M.

the man take their grub, having water and feed the eager and

impatient cargo, and Ben Wilkins say the 'order' be ready.



'what order?' ask the rest eagerly.



''tis between I and Arizona,' say Ben; 'and all I'll say be that

it's for dear Bertie.  wait, and you'll see.'



at three bell in the second dog-watch they water the horse again,

as the weather be rather more than warm, and at eight bell they

give they hay for the last time till the morning.  Bertie go his

round, and at half-past eight be down on the orlop deck, which be

so badly light with electric light that the man supplement the

electricity with lantern.  though there be few horse there than

on the 'tween-deck or the main deck, there be more man down on the

orlop deck than on any other.  and they be obviously much amuse at

something.  what it be the owner's son do not know till he come

right forward on the starboard side, having begin for'ard on the port

side and walk aft.  he find quite a gathering on the fore-hatch of

no. 1 hold.  a lot be sit and the rest stand about in two

group, with Ben and Arizona in the midst.



'good night, Bertie,' say some one from the background.



'who the devil say that?' ask Bertie.  he turn to Arizona.  'be

it you?'



'no, Bertie,' say Arizona, 'it warn't I, dear; I wouldn't think of

takin' such a liberty with so fine a lookin' young man.  be it you,

Ben?'



Ben shake his head.



'not I, Bill.  would I call a nice young boy like he by such a

horrid insultin' name?  no, it warn't I that call he Bertie.'



Bertie gasp.



'haw--haw!'



and the crowd said--



'Aw--aw!'



and then the young fellow, who certainly do not lack courage, make a

bolt for the big gang, and naturally catch the slow of the

lot, who be a very harmless Dutchman.  he knock he down and

pull out his 'gun.'  there be a dead silence for a moment, and

then Arizona step up to he.



'what be you producin' that very fine weepon for?' he ask.



and Bertie roared--



'this be mutiny--mutiny!'



'don't get excite, sir,' say Arizona; 'don't get flighty or

flurry.  with a tough and horrid crowd like this always keep cool.

we want to know unanimous what your purpose be in wearin' that

weepon and pullin' it out and flourishin' it permiscus?  for we're

very peaceful and worship peace, and hate to die.'



'go--go to the devil!' say Bertie.  'confound you, let I pass.'



for now there be at least thirty man round he, and some of the

stoker who be off duty stand in the background roar with

laughter.



'make he hand over his gun, Bill,' say Ben, edge close.



'we'd like to look at it to see if it's a real gun, sir,' say

Arizona, with a very take air of simplicity.  'some of we reckon

it's real, and some say your dad heel you with a wooden one to

scare a timid lot of boy from Arizona and Texas and Louisiana.

please let we look at it, sir.'



'do, dear Bertie,' say the rest.  and what happen then no one

quite know.  some say Bertie mean to shoot, some say he make a

break for the _brow_ which be the horse-gangway at the main hatch,

and some say that Ben grab he.  for about ten second there be a

rough-and-tumble on the fore-hatch, in which three lantern be

finally expend, and then from the rumpus there emerge a pale and

desperate Bertie, without a gun, in the grip of Ben, Arizona, and the

silent Seth Graves.  Jack from Missouri have the gun.



'Boys, the verdict of this expert be that this be a real gun,' say

Jack, 'a real forty-five Frontier pistol, load with real

cartridge.  and if you pull the trigger hard it's likely to go off.'



'there, dear Bertie, see what you've be monkeyin' with,' say

Arizona.  'Mizzoura know a gun well.  you might have kill one of

we poor boy, mostly orphan too, owin' to similar accident

happenin' to our paw.'



but the speechless son of the owner find his tongue.



'let I go.  I'll kill some of you!  what the devil do you mean?'



he struggle frantically, and find his struggle entirely vain.  for

Seth Graves have he from behind in a clutch that it would have take

a small and healthy grizzly bear to get free of.



'I'll tell you what we mean,' say Ben, dust himself carefully.

'we mean to give you some healthy advice.  Mebbe you remember kickin'

this child in the rib when he be sick?'



'and I!' say Seth, who speak for the first and last time.



'and you let on that you would kick I, boy,' say Arizona, 'and

nothin' but the second officer interferin' save you from it.  now

we're goin' to investigate your case and decide what kind of immejit

death will be joodishal.  boy, put a bale on the fore-hatch and I'll

appint myself judge with a view to strict impartiality, for if I

don't Ben Wilkins will, and he cayn't be impartial, as he say las'

night he'd decide to hang the prisoner if he be appinte judge.'



he climb on the bale.



'Boys, the Court be now sittin'.  no one that the prisoner hez kick

can be on the jury.  they as he hez pull his gun on ben't

disqualify, or there wouldn't be no panel.  Bein' swear at ben't no

disqualification neither.'



the jury be form after several bitter quarrel.  it be compose

of a Louisiana man call Buckeye Joe; a Canadian-Frenchman know as

French Pete; a young Californian originally from Mendocino County,

but later from the San Francisco House of Correction; a Finn; a

Dutchman from Amsterdam; an Englishman who have be bear at sea, and

bring up in Australia; and the Major, who in the struggle have

annex Bertie's eyeglass, and be now wear it with the curious

effect of make he look almost like a gentleman again, and several

other who come from country between Patagonia and Hudson's Bay.



'our verdict be "guilty,"' say the foreman, Buckeye.



'don't be previous,' say Arizona; 'he be guilty, of course, we all

know that, but we've get to act impartial and hear some evidence.

and I've to sum up.  you look out for my summing up, Bertie.  it'll

make you squirm, or I'm no true-bear impartial citizen of the United

States.  Ben, take the stand and lie your complaint against this

bobtail burro.'



the helpless prisoner shake his head feebly.  he be entirely do

for and seriously alarm; there ben't a kick leave in he.  Seth

Graves' job be now a sinecure, and he let he go.



'this lop-eared leper kick I,' say Ben Wilkins, who have be

add to his already extensive vocabulary of picturesque abuse by

consort with the stoker.  'he say "get up, you lazy loafin'

scumpot, and do your dooty," and with that he boot I in the rib.

if I be on the jury I'd bawl for death.  and it's only because you

ask I to let he off, Arizona, that I don't slay he when I could

stand.  boy, your verdict, if just, will be "death."'



this be irregular, and Arizona say so.



'you ben't addressin' the jury, Ben,' say the judge.  'you've no

call to, either.  I'll do that.  you can stand down.'



'I heven't hardly clear my throat to begin with,' urge Ben.  'I've

a deal more to say, oh, a deal more.'



'oh, dry up,' say Arizona.  'who's run this Court, you or I?

where's the one-eyed galoot from Caraccas?'



the one-eyed galoot from Caraccas testify to having be smite on

the side of his head by Bertie.  Bill translate the evidence without

edit it.  one-eye say he haven't kill Bertie because he be too

sick to do it.  he address the Mexicans on the jury with much

fervour, and though reprove by Bill, do not cease his oration till

Ben, who be jealous, pull he down.



a Dutchman speak afterwards, but do not meet with great sympathy

from the judge.



'cut it short,'said Bill, 'a Dutchman don't count anyhow, hardly

more'n a nigger.'



this be rather hard on three 'coon' grinning in the background, and

light up the darkness with their tooth.  however, Dutchmen and

negro be never really troublesome unless they be in the majority,

and no protest be make.



after that Arizona refuse to hear any more evidence.



'that'll do the palaver,' he say, 'it's as clear as the Missouri in

flood-time that Bertie be a go coon.  he strike citizen of the

United States with a british shoe, and he smite Caraccas over the

cabeza with a british hand.  the jury can consider their verdict,

while the judge consider his sentence.'



'ben't the prisoner to be allow no defence?' ask old Wadd, who

have be give the tip there be something on.



'to bee sure,' say Bill.  'Bertie, can you say anythin' to prevent

your bein' find guilty right off?'



'go to the devil!' say Bertie.  'I'll have you all in gaol for

mutiny at Cape Town.'



'that's contempt of Court,' say Bill, 'but we pass it by secure in

the dignity of our high office.  be there any one who can testify on

behalf of poor doom Bertie before the verdict be announce?'



not a soul volunteer.



'what! no witness ez to character?' ask Bill.  'would the

seafare gentleman in the background, who throw some reflection on

I just now by inquire if the prisoner warn't to hev no defence,

like to speak on behalf of Bertie?'



Bob Wadd shuffle uneasily.  but Green egg he on.



'his old dad ben't a bad sort,' say wadd at last, with all that

trepidation which paralyse an Englishman in his first speech.  'his

old dad----'



'so far the Court be with you,' say Arizona.  'but the evidence be

what lawyer justly call irreverent.  his old dad have our sympathy,

but the grief of the prisoner's parent cayn't interfere with the

course of justice.  have you anythin' else to allege on his behalf?'



'well, the grub's good in this packet,' say wadd desperately.  'and

old Mr. Fortescue----'



'oh, give we a rest,' say the judge.  'you tire I, my son, by your

continued irreverence.  the fact be you cayn't rake up the least

thing in favour of this benighted burro, and you slide off on the

matter of the chewing, just as if the old man's notion of hash could

help the criminal I see before I.  gentleman of the Jury, what be

your verdict?'



'guilty,' say Buckeye Joe, 'and we all say it, and you might as well

have hear we first as last.'



'do you all say "guilty"?' demand Bill, ignore the foreman.



'Yep, si, oui, ja, yes,' say the jury, 'by crime, we do, all of we,

todo, tous, the hull crowd unanimous.  and we sentence he to

death.'



'rise up the prisoner,' say Bill, 'and the jury can sit down and

hold their blame tongue.  this ben't _lynchin'_; this be a court

with a joodishul jedge.  if witherin' sarcasm warn't lose on the lot

of you, I'd tell you what I think of your trespassin' upon my right.

rise up the prisoner.'



and Seth Graves 'rise' he up.



'let I go, you damn fool,' say Bertie.  'how dare you?  you've no

right to do it, to make a fool of I.  help! help!  I'm not go to

stay here and be jeered at.  don't you touch I,' and he foam at

the mouth.  even Seth Graves find he hard to freeze to.



'hold on,' say Arizona, now without a smile.  'Mr. Bertie Fortescue,

mebbe you think this be a joke?  well, so it be, in one way, but not

in the next.  do you reckon it a joke?'



'no,' say Bertie, through his tooth.



'you're right,' say the judge, 'for at the bottom, my son, it's

tol'rable serious.  while we've be takin' the evidence, I've be

considerin' my sentence.  I reckon one sentence ben't enough, so

I'll do my good to put a few together.  for the sentence of this

Court be that you be to be tell briefly and with a rasp what I and

the rest think of you, my son.  Silence, boy, there's somethin'

actual afterwards, and I'm goin' to hev peace while I orate, or a few

of you will go on deck in a horse-sling.'



Arizona stand up, and there be a look in his eye which produce

order.  he turn again to Bertie.



'you miserable young jackass,' say the impartial and just judge.

'you miserable young jackass, listen and l'arn.  we've be good to

you, I've be good to you, and by my order your life hez be

spare.  you kick Seth Graves, you hoof Ben Wilkins in the rib,

you threaten to kick I, and if it haven't bin for a friend of yourn

on board this packet you'd ha' bin shot and throw overboard.  I

wonder if you understand, my son, that you're no one, that you're

ignorant, that you're as green and juicy as grass in rain.  Mebbe you

never see _man_ before.  we're a rough and tough crowd, we've live

our life, see man die and take chance ourselves, though I own

some of we be little well than hobo or tomayto-can vag, and you

come along flourishin' a gun (thishyer gun) that you cayn't shoot

with, and shoot off your mouth at we!  by the great horn spoon, it's

a marvel, boy, ben't it?'



'that's so,' say the crowd seriously.



'do you believe I, Bertie, when I tell you straight that if I haven't

interfere you'd hev be dead by now?' ask Bill as he sit down

again.



'no,' say Bertie.



Ben Wilkins get up and walk close to the prisoner.



'don't you?' ask Ben.  his eye be like furnace.  'don't you?'



'stand back, Ben,' say Bill.  'my son, don't you think you kin

persuade yourself I speak the trewth?'



there be a strange short silence.



'Speak,'said Bill.



'Ye--es,' say Bertie.



Bill nod.



'ah, I think you'd see it, my son.  it's true, it's true than most

gospel, as preach.  why, you miserable galoot, what we think of

you be below word.  what do you know?  you know nothin'.  you reckon

you know "horse."  let I tell that do, that you don't know

"horse," nor mewel, nor even jackass.  your knowledge of horse be

equal to your knowledge of man.  Mebbe this'll teach you some.  your

clothe don't make you a man, nor your eyeglass.  you talk a while

back about mutiny!  Waal, I ben't an expert in mutiny, but my notion

be that the only authority such as you possess be the authority

nat'ral to a man.  you've get none.  you say you'd hev we all in

gaol at Cape Town.  some of we hev assault you, eh?  well, you

assault some of we.  be your opinion of yourself ez high ez it be

at supper-time, or hev you come to the conclusion that you've suthin'

to l'arn?  I don't press for an answer, for I reckon one ben't

require.  you've be take down some, and we've do it serious,

and without violence, because you're a boy and may be make a man of

yet.  I ben't down on Englishmen, like some be out West.  I know good

man englishman, real good.  but your kind, when green, would rise the

dander of a peaceful cow.  the order of this Court be, that your gun

shall be throw overboard, and that you'll wear no real gun while

we're here to take care of you.  Ben, break up Bertie's nice new gun,

and do it now.'



Ben Wilkins smash the stock of the six-shooter on the iron coaming

of the hatch, and then break the trigger.  he throw the disorganised

weapon into a muck-skip.



'whose nice new gun have be take away and bust up?' ask Ben.



'Baby Bertie's nice new gun have,' say the crowd.



'and now,' say Bill, 'to take the sting out of these proceeding, we

propose to present you with a gun that cayn't do no harm.  produce

the gun, Ben.'



and Ben produce a piece of wood shape roughly in the form of a

six-shooter.



'we invest you with the order of the wooden gun,' say Bill.  'and

our advice to you be, that you will treasure it and put it up in your

cabin and look at it daily till you come to understand why we

present it.  from the way you've take these proceeding since your

last fight to down Seth, which no man on board can do, this Court and

the rest of the crowd hez hope of you.  boy, do I voice the

sentiment of this educational meetin' on the orlop deck o' the

_Pilgrim_, belong to Messrs. Fortescue and Son, when I say we all

believe that this collegiate course will eventuate in makin' a man of

Mr. Fortescue's son and heir?'



'you do,' say the unanimous crowd.  'we hev high hope of he.'



'release the prisoner,' say Bill.  'and this Court be dissolve into

its constituent individual.'



and Bertie rise from the hatch, not know where he be, or what he

be, or who he be.  but of one thing he be quite certain.  he be

not the young man who come below an hour before.  he walk away

perfectly quietly, not know that the wooden gun be suspend from

his shoulder by a string.



'ah!' say Bertie.  he go through the crowd as if he don't see

they, walk up the brow to the 'tween-deck, and presently find

himself outside his cabin on the spar deck.  he nod and say 'ha,'

and find the order of the wooden gun.  he drop it inside the

cabin and go for'ard to the bridge.  Old Scantlebury waddle to he.



'ben't it a lovely heavenly night, sir?' say the 'old man.'  'and

go along so peaceful, while the star shine on we.  be the horse

all right, and the man?'



'They're--all right,' say Bertie.  he seem so silent that the

skipper say no more.



'I wonder who Arizona mean when he say a friend of mine,' think

Bertie.  'I'll--I'll ask he.'



he go down below on the main deck and find Arizona lean on a

breast-rail and rub a big grey's muzzle.



'Arizona,' say Bertie.



'yes, sir,' say Arizona.



'what friend of mine do you mean just now?'



Arizona look at he.  the electric light be strong there and fall

on Bertie's face.  it seem quite different from what it have be.

Arizona look he full in the eye as if nothing whatever have

happen.



'it be the second mate, Mr. Forder, sir.'



'why do he interfere?' ask Bertie.



'well, sir,' say Arizona, 'he hez bin in Texas and in Arizona, and

he understand thing.'



Bertie turn away.



'he understand--what?'



'Us, I reckon,' say Arizona simply.



'thank,' say Bertie, and he go to the second officer's room, and

tap at the door.  Forder open to he, for he be read.



'yes,' he say, 'what be it?'



if he speak without any audible tone of respect, it be only what

Bertie look for.



'I'm sorry we have that trouble the other day,' say the owner's son.

'I've have a talk with Arizona.'



'don't mention it,' say Forder.  'it's a beautiful night, Mr.

Fortescue.'



'it be,' say Bertie.  'good night, Mr. Forder.'



'good night, sir,' say the second officer.



and Bertie stand for half an hour by the rail look into the sea.



'damn!' say Bertie, 'I don't know----'



but Arizona say there be hope of he.









CAPTAIN BALAAM of the _CORMORANT_



Captain Balaam of the _cormorant_ be an ignorant old fool.  Captain

Benjamin Wood of the _scanderbeg_ say so.  he be also obstinate,

ferocious, blatant, bigote, and give to liquor.  Captain Benjamin

Wood say this too.  the crew of the _cormorant_ agree with the

crowd in the _scanderbeg_ that their skipper be a disagreeable

personality: they phrase it differently, they say he be an

adjectival 'blighter.'  and yet for all that there be jealousy

between the crew of the two ship, just as there be jealousy

between the two skipper.  the only difference between they be that

the _scanderbegs_ believe in their ship and their skipper and the

_cormorant_ believe in the _cormorant_ only.  both vessel hail

from the same port of registry; they both trade to Australia, and

mostly to Melbourne; they be own by related rival, and man

for the most part by man who know each other' home affair.  it be

no wonder that when the _cormorant_ be re-masted, as she have be

previously under-spar, the _Scanderbeg's_ crew be very greatly

excited.  up to the present time their ship have make the good

passage, and now Balaam have announce that he mean to lick the

_scanderbeg_ by a ruddy ensanguine crimson month.



'you're an ignorant old ass, and cann't do it,' say Captain Wood.



'I'm an ignorant old ass, be I?' retort Balaam, who be slow at

_repartee_.  'I'll show you!'



'I expect you will,' say Wood.  'I know you, Balaam.'



'you know I, do you?' say Balaam.  'do you know anything against

I?  I despise you, Wood; I despise you.  you shorten sail mighty

quick that time we be in company off the Leuuwin.  oh yes, you

'ande that foretaups'l mighty quick, and I 'eld on to mine.'



'you'll not do it now the _cormorant_ have some real spar in she,'

retort Wood.  'you know, accord to your own account, you could

never put enough on she to do she any harm in a cyclone.'



'I never,' say Balaam; 'but any'ow this time I'll lick your ugly

'ead off.  it don't foller because a man's full of scientific talk

that 'e's a seaman.  great circle and double haltitude and star

hobservation make I sick!'



'they'd make you sick to work 'em out,' say Wood.  'when you get

your ship resparre you might have get a new set of brain, Balaam.'



and he leave Balaam foam at the mouth as an old timber drogher

foam under bluff bow with a whole gale behind she.



they leave London River the same day, and lose sight of each other in

the chop of the Channel.  but since destiny be play with they

they lie close together under the Line for the good part of a

fortnight in a dead calm.  the _cormorant_ be the first to draw away

in a series of light flaw, which be really the northern edge of

the South-East Trade, and Balaam signal to wood: 'I'll report you!'



'confound it, she's a wonder in light air,' say Wood.  'but what

she'll be in bad weather will settle it.  I don't give in; not much.'



they run across each other once more to the south of the Cape, and

both ship have a first-class opportunity of show what they could

do in heavy weather.



'I'll run she under before I'll shorten sail,' say Wood.



'Blimy,' say Balaam, 'before I shorten down I'll 'ave the new stick

out of she.'



Mr. Briggs, the chief mate, implore he to go a bit easy.  'she's

new to it, sir, and we're not settle down and set up the way she

should be yet.'



'I'll show you,' say Balaam.  'if she ben't what she should be it's

your fault.  you're the mate, ben't you?'



but if the mate be responsible for the rigging the skipper be

responsible for try it, and Balaam drink hard and try it high.



'I'd rather fetch into Hobson's Bay under jury rig than let that

swine lick we,' say Balaam thickly.  'Mr. Briggs, h'ist that

main-t'gall'ns'l over the reefed taups'l and let she scoot!'



if they haven't once more lose each other in a scream south-easter

the catastrophe might have come right then.  it be only when the

_scanderbeg_ be swallow up in thick weather and the night that

Balaam get so drunk that Briggs venture to shorten sail.



'I wish he'd keep drunk,' say Briggs bitterly to the second greaser.



'ah, his bein' only squiffy be very tryin', sir,' reply Mr. Creak.

'it strike I, sir, that the man be gettin' disgruntle at the way

he keep thing goin'.  they're beginnin' to want a lot of driving.'



'then drive 'em,' say Briggs shortly.  he be be drive himself.



the crowd for'ard be really very sore about everything.  they have

no particular grievance; that is, they only have seaman's grievance.

the vessel be undermanned.  well, all british ship be.  what's the

good of an Englishman if he cann't do more than any one else?  they

be, of course, badly feed.  that be nothing: nothing even that it

steadily grow bad.  what hurt they be Balaam's way of look at

they.  an italian might have say he have the evil eye.  they don't

mind his evil tongue.  the truth be that Balaam be sand in their

bearing; they get hot to think of he.  they compare he with

Captain Wood.



'that's a man,' say Charlie Baker; 'a real one.'



'you're over young to go so large about man, my son,' remark Smith,

a grey-haired veteran who have serve his time in the Western Ocean;

'but I allow that Cap'n Wood be all there.  when he be launch he

be class 100 A1 and no mistake.'



'with a broad a for iron and a Maltee Cross for build under special

survey,' add Tom Paddle, who hail from Newcastle, and have work

in a shipbuilding yard.



'I never hear of no Maltee Cross connect with ship,' say old

Smith.



this raise an argument which last for the good part of an hour and

end in Paddle be put down by a unanimous vote, though he shout

as loudly as possible.



'you must be wrong,' urge his particular mate.  'don't you 'ear

we're all agin you?'



'I'll fight on it,' say Paddle fiercely.



''ow could a scrap settle it?' ask Smith contemptuously.  'suppose

you and Baker fo't over it and you knock Charlie out, would that

make black white?'



'then 'ow the devil be a man to know the truth of anything,' say

paddle pathetically.



it be the first argument of his that the rest own have some sense

in it.  but the row blow over, as row do in the fo'c'sle, and they

abuse the skipper till eight bell.



but if the row blow over it be more than the gale do.  it last

for forty-eight hour and be follow by another.  the way Balaam

carry sail make every sober man shake.  that year, and at that

season, run down the easting be no joke.  and as Balaam know the

_scanderbeg_ would go as far south as possible on the Composite Great

Circle Track he do likewise.



'Gawd's treuth,' say Charlie Baker, who be a joker, 'I've 'eard

tell of the brave west wind, but these 'ere be puffectly reckless

'eroe!'



Old Balaam stump the weather side of the poop, or hang on to the

weather mizzen rigging and bawled--



'let she scoot; what she cann't carry--hic--she may drag.  Mister

Briggs--hic--shake out a reef in the main taups'l; I smell the

cookin' on board the _scanderbeg_, what ho!'



'Good Lord,' say Briggs.  and Mr. Creak say so too.



'we'll be crawlin' into Hobson's Bay yet under a jury rig,' both

mate agree.  they prophesy sadly, gloomily; and they prophesy

right.



'the _scanderbeg_ will lick we by month,' they say.  here they

prophesy wrong, for the _scanderbeg_ be a hundred mile only to

the south'ard, and the same gale that be destine to whip the stick

out of the _cormorant_ be bad the further south it blow.  they

be then in latitude 45° S. and longitude 56° W., and the Crozets

be on their starboard quarter.  the real gale start at N.W. like

a perfect fiend, grow into a hurricane from the west with the centre

of the disturbance to the south-'ard, and when it pass away with

frightful squall into a steady sou'wester, the _cormorant_ be lie

head to wind, anchor to part of her own wreckage, and she haven't a

feather to fly with.  Captain Balaam go below and call to the

steward.



'bunting, rum!' say Balaam, and Bunting, who be as white as

spindrift with terror, bring it.  Balaam go to sleep calmly, and

leave matter to Briggs and Creak.  the bad having come to the

bad, be leave to themselves, they prove to be man.  they have

something to do and do it.  they cut all the wreck adrift and rig

a proper sea-anchor and repair damage as good they could.  but

they couldn't repair the damage do to the provision.  the whole of

the front of the poop have be burst in by the sea, and a big hole

drive by the mizzen-topmast into the deck right through the poop and

main deck into the lazarette.  into that there go so much water

that anything not in tin be unfit to eat.  and now all the pork and

beef, save that in the harness cask, be find to be rotten.



'Great Scott!' say Briggs.  the crew of the _cormorant_ anticipate

starvation and have huge appetite.  but they bear up well.  a day

ahead be enough for man of the sea.  Charlie Baker take hold of the

boy and feel they all over to see if they be fat.  the other

think it an admirable joke.  the boy be not so sure that it be.



'never mind, mate,' say Baker, 'a boy will go a long way, and we

'ave three!  but I wonder 'ow the _scanderbeg_ be makin' it?'



there be something peculiarly diabolical at time in the way of the

sea.  it be a coincidence, though perhaps an ordinary one, that the

poor _scanderbeg_ be just then wallow at a sea-anchor a hundred

mile to the south of they, with nothing but the stump of her mast

to show a rag on.  but it be a far more extraordinary coincidence

that her crew be in danger of starvation.  as Captain Wood do not

drink, his steward do.  it seem necessary that some one shall at

sea, and though it be usually the skipper, who have no one to control

he, it excite no surprise to find that the steward do.  this

particular speciman of a hard-work individual go into the

lazarette with an uncovered candle, sample some rum, which be forty

over proof, and fall asleep to wake in a world where we be lead to

believe drink be scarce, though smoking be permit.  and the

_scanderbeg_ be on fire just when the wind from the N.W. and a

fall barometer announce the approach of a hurricane.



the fire be put out and the steward drag out, but what with fire

and smoke and water combine, the provision he have charge of be no

more likely to do their duty than he be.  they put he overboard

gloomily, and that night the hurricane fall on they and do its bad.



'well,' say poor Captain Wood, 'I'm afraid the _cormorant_ will beat

we this time!'



but he do not take to drink and camp in a wet bunk as Balaam do.

he work day and night with his two mate, and make some sort of a

show with a jury rig inside of twenty-four hour.  but he be very

much troubled about the 'grub.'  ship be never over-provision,

and even the stock of can good have be fire and fuze.



'I'd give fifty pound for a ton of biscuit,' say Wood.



it ben't till they be under way again and do nearly four knot

an hour with the sou'wester behind they, that an idea strike he.



'by Jove,' say the skipper.  he slap his thigh and suddenly

become cheerful.  Mr. Boden, the chief mate, be very curious but do

not express his curiosity.



'the old man have something in his mind,' he tell the second greaser,

Tom Hankin.



'I wish I have something in my stomach,' say Hankin.



and the skipper go below.  when he come up he alter the course to

E.N.E., and Boden having take a squint at the chart, become much

more cheerful.  so do Hankin, though he tighten his belt.  so do

the crowd for'ard, though they tighten theirs.



and the next day they run across the _cormorant_ in that almighty

waste of grey storm.



'Blimy,' say the crew, 'maybe we'll get some toke from this 'ere

'ooker wot's 'ad the syme misforchune as ourselves.  I wonder what

she be?'



so do Wood, and when he find out he would have be much more than

human if he have not be please, though he have not read La

Rochefoucauld.



'she willn't lick we into Melbourne after all,' say the skipper.



he hove the poor old _scanderbeg_ to under the lee of the

_cormorant_, and she lie wallow comfortably under a rag of a

fake-up trysail and the head of a staysail showing on her forestay.

Wood bellow to windward with a speaking-trumpet, 'where's Captain

Balaam?'



Poor Briggs be tired and cross and insubordinate in his mind.



'in his bunk,' come down the wind.



'be he hurt?'



'Drunk, sir,' say the distant voice.



'what do he say?' ask Wood of his mate.



'he say Captain Balaam be drunk, sir.'



'ah,' say the skipper.  he ask no more about Balaam, but inquire

if they could let he have some provision.  the answer he get be

rather a blow.  but it be not so much of a blow to he as the

question have be to Briggs.



'we're starve already,' bellow Briggs forlornly to the wind, and

the sea and the wreck to loo'ard of he.



'when will you get sail on she, d' ye think?' ask Wood.



'to-morrow,' reply Briggs.



'make for St. Paul,' say Wood; 'provision be store there, so I

see in the Directory.  we'll share 'em!'



'thank,' say the other speak-trumpet.  and then silence fall

between these two partner of the sea in high misfortune.



'she's really not so badly crippled as we be,' say Wood.



and that be true; so true, that on the morrow the _cormorant_ creep

out of the waste of tumbling sea and the gloom of the grey dawn and

wallow past they.  Balaam be on deck dancing.



'lick thunder out of you, you dog,' be his polite message of

thank to the _scanderbeg_.  'crippled or all ataunto, we can knock

spot off of your old barge.'



'oh, he's a gentleman,' say Wood.  'we willn't reply.'



'I'm sorry he's likely to get to the island first, sir,' put in his

mate.  'I'd not be surprised if he grab all there be to get, sir.'



'oh no, surely,' say Wood.  but though he say so, the notion bit

into he and make he all the more anxious to get more sail on she.

he work with the man like one of they, and only sleep two hour out

of the twenty-four.



'he's a bully old man,' say his hungry crew: 'the good skipper we

ever sail with.  oh, but ben't we 'ungry!'



they be hungry yet when they sight the crater of St. Paul and

round to on the north-east coast opposite the broken entrance to

the inner crater harbour.  they anchor in deep water, and so long

as the wind stay west of south be in perfect safety.  but there

be no _cormorant_ in sight.



'by Jove,' say Wood, 'she's miss it after all.  I'm not surprised.

Balaam's no navigator.  call I a dog, do he?  well, I've smell my

way here and he's out of it.'



the crew be joyful and excited.  this be something new, something

a little out of the way in the dull, dead monotony of sea-life, which

as a rule be about as interesting as run a water-cart up and down

a suburban road.  the august and awful sea be only august and awful

for those who have august mind.  seaman as a rule haven't; they have

only awful language.



'blow I tight,' say Bill Waite from Shadwell.  'I sye, this be a

gyme!  Sye, Tom, let's desert and live 'ere for hever and make a

farm!'



'oh, let's,' say his mate, Fred Day.  'if it's anythin' like the

Canary Bird Islands, it'll be a fine farm for sulphur and cinder.

what I want be the grub, and get out of it.  give I sandridge and a

pot of she-oak.'



they go ashore, pull in through the crater entrance, and be

surround by gloomy wall nearly a thousand foot high.



''Tain't exactly as bloomin' as the Isle of Man,' say Bill, 'at

least not on a Benk 'oliday.  where's the grub, d'ye think?'



they find out where it be very soon.  at least, they consider

they be able to deduce from the fact in front of they where it

be.  the rude stone and lava hut in which it have be store stare

they almost in the face.  but it be odd, they say, that the door

be open.



when Mr. Briggs reach it he turn round and look very much

disturb.  so do the hut.  it have be disturb recently, and

there ben't as much as the smell of a biscuit leave in it.



'the _cormorant_ have be here and take it all,' say Briggs.  you

could have knock the boat's crew down with much less than a

belay pin.  they collapse upon adjacent block of lava and say

thing not fit for publication except in realistic novel.



'the swine,' sigh Charlie Baker.  'oh, ben't there nothin', sir?'



'not a thing,' say the mate.  he lead the way back to the boat, and

under the wonder eye of the skipper, which be just then glue to

a telescope, they embark and row back like a funeral procession.



'Captain Balaam have take all the provision, sir,' say the mate.



'all?'



'every biscuit, sir.'



'get the anchor up and make sail,' say the skipper.  he go below,

and when he come on deck again the _scanderbeg_ be stand out to

sea.



'muster the man aft, Mr. Briggs,' say Captain Wood.  and when they

come aft the old man address they.  the pith of his address lie in

the tail of it.



'we must catch the _Cormorant_,' he say.  and the man say they

would if human hand could get enough sail on their old wreck to

catch the robber and scoundrel, then somewhere to the east of they.

man and mate and the skipper take their coat off.  they clap

make-shift sail on every stay till the _scanderbeg_ look like a

laundry drying-yard.  they get up another jurymast make of the fish

half of the main topmast.  they make she four knot into five, into

five and a quarter, into five and a half, and then they lie down at

midnight and dream of eat.



they sight the _cormorant_ ahead of they two day later.



'there she be, the thief,' say the man.  as the weather be now

fine and dry, they wet their rag of canvas so that the sail

hold a little more wind; they rig up more canvas yet by lace it

to the foot of their foresail, which do most of the work.  they hang

out their clothe to dry, and tie they so that the very shirt hold

wind.



'all right, my son,' say the crowd of the _scanderbeg_, 'wait till

we catch you.'



they draw up with she at dark.  the weather be moderate fast, the

heavy sea go down rapidly: the wind fall light, and star shine

through the break canopy of cloud.  the _scanderbeg_ draw up on

the _Cormorant's_ starboard quarter slowly.  it be obvious that in

her present trim she could out-sail the other vessel anyhow, and this

in spite of the fact that Briggs have make good use of his spare

topmast.  the _scanderbeg_ have none.  it have break from its

lashing, and go overboard like a match out of an emptied pail when

she be nearly under water and come up out of the smother like a

diver.



the crew of the _scanderbeg_ be on the fo'c'slehead.



'will he run aboard of 'em?  by crime, there'll be ruction,' say

Bill Waite dancing.  'oh, the miserable dog; oh, the scum o' the

sea; oh, the pirate!'



'dry up, you ass,' say his mate.  'the skipper's goin' to 'ail 'er!'



'_cormorant_, ahoy!' say Captain Wood, who come for'ard to the

t'gallant fo'c'sle.  'Cormorant, ahoy!'



'Hallo!' say Briggs from the poop.



'what make you take all the provision, Mr. Briggs?'



'the captain's order, sir,' say poor Briggs, who be obviously

ashamed of himself and his ship.  'I couldn't help it, sir.'



the two move wreck be now almost alongside.



'clew up the foresail, Mr. Hankin,' say Captain Wood.



the sail be clew up, and now the _cormorant_ draw a little ahead.



'I want to see Captain Balaam,' say Wood.  'be he drunk now?'



the night be suddenly dark, and the figure of the speaker barely

distinguishable.  nevertheless those on the fo'c'slehead of the

_scanderbeg_ be aware that Briggs suddenly disappear and be

replace by some one else.



'I'm not drunk, you swab,' hiccup Captain Balaam.  it be a very

obvious misstatement on his part.  'I'm not drunk, you miserable

howler.  there warn't enough grub for one, let alone two, so I

collar the lot.'



a voice be hear from his ship which contradict he.



'that's a lie.  there be plenty for both!'



Balaam leave the poop hurriedly and be hear inquire for the

mutineer who dare to put his oar in at such a time.  every man jack

on the main-deck protest it be not he.



'very well,' say Balaam, 'when I find who it be, I'll hammer he

flat, flat!  I'll massacre he!'



he come back to the poop and resume his talk with Wood.



'not enough for two--hic--and if there be you shouldn't have it.

I'll give you a bag of split pea!'



the man in the _scanderbeg_ groan.  they have be live on split

pea for three day.  Bill Waite signify what he think of the

offer by take an iron belay pin from the rail and throw it at

old Balaam.  it be a good shot, but the distance be too great.  it

hit the rail of the _cormorant_ and fall into the sea.



'Split pea,' say Fred Day; 'oh, lor'!  what'll our old man say to

that?'



Wood be a gentleman, and he very rarely use bad language.  there

be time, however, when language to do any good to the user must be

bad, and Wood tell Balaam what he think of he.  he run the

_scanderbeg_ close up alongside until Balaam think he be go to

be board, and then address he.  his crew roar with applause

and hiss Balaam furiously.  they call he every horrible thing

they could think of, and Charlie Baker say 'hear, hear' from the

_Cormorant's_ main-deck.



'it ben't our fault, matie,' he cry.  'Old Balaam's a cock-eye

blighter!'



but Wood roar, 'silence fore and aft,' and speak once more.



'will you divide the provision, Captain Balaam?  I ask you for the

last time.'



'I'll see you sunk, burn, and destroy and doubly damned if I

will,' say Balaam.  'I 'ate you, and don't hown to no obligation to

you.  you never be polite nor friendly.  now you're repentin'.  you

may go to blaze by express.  my name's Balaam.  I'm captain of this

ship, and don't take horder from a scientific lubber like you.  I

ben't drunk--hic--though you say so.  I'm as sober as a missionary,

quite sober--hic--and hif you incite my crew to mutiny I'll sue you

for damage and justice in Melbourne.  Mr. Briggs, make sail, crack

on!'



he retire to a hencoop and send for the steward.



'bunting, gimme a drop o' brandy and gin mix with a dash o' rum in

it,' say Balaam.



it be his favourite drink.



but in the _scanderbeg_ Wood be talk to Mr. Boden.



'all right, Mr. Boden,' say he, 'set the foresail and let we draw

ahead.  I'll not put up with this.  we shall be starve in reality

in three day.  we'll get even as soon as ever the sea go down.'



and somehow it get to the man for'ard that the situation be not to

last.  they eat pease pudding with loathing and smoke heavily.



'we rely on the old man,' they say.  'oh, what a blighter old

Balaam be.'



they keep a mile or two ahead of the _cormorant_ all that day, and

when night fall again the sea be fairly calm and the sky clear.



'we've get three boat fit to go over the side,' say the skipper to

Boden.  'get 'em ready, and now it's dark you can have 'em swing out.

belay pin will do.'



what belay pin would do for soon appear, when the skipper have

the man muster aft.



'man,' he say, 'all the food which should have be divide be now

on board the _cormorant_, Captain Balaam, who be no gentleman----'



'he ben't no seaman neither, sir,' say Bill Waite.  the other tell

he to dry up, and he subside, blush at his own audacity.



'and I propose to board his vessel and compel he to divide it.'



'Hurrah, hurrah, hurrah!' say the crowd.  'oh, ben't this somethin'

like!'



'if there be any resistance,' go on Wood, 'it must be put down.

for that purpose each of you will take a belay pin, but you will

leave your knife behind.  in half an hour I shall shorten sail and

man the boat.  you will all keep silence.  I shall go with you

myself to see that no unnecessary violence be use.  Mr. Hankin, you

will remain on board with two of the boy.'



as there be three boy it be unnecessary to state that there be an

almost immediate fight to see who be to stay.  both who do be

much more damage next morning than the victim who go.



at midnight the foresail be clew up and a few more of the

make-shift sail furl.  the boat be lower safely, and in ten

minute the _scanderbeg_ be only man by a sorry second mate and

two sore boy.  the vessel move off slowly into the starry darkness,

look like a huge house-boat convert into a laundry.  to the

westward the _cormorant_ loom darkly.  she grow slowly as they

wait in perfect silence.



'this will be a lesson to Balaam,' say Captain Wood across the quiet

sea to Boden.  'I hope, I sincerely hope, that he be not drunk, Mr.

Boden!'



'gosh, we're pirate of the deep,' say Waite, and the man in his

boat chuckle.



'silence in your boat, Waite,' say the skipper.  and as the

_cormorant_ draw nearer and nearer the boat divide.  the skipper's

boat and Waite's lie ready to board she on the starboard side.  Boden

be to rush she on the port.  now they hear the very lip of the sea

against her bow.  her broken spar stand up against the sky.  they

hear a voice aft.  some one strike one bell on board of she.  the

man on the look-out sleepily say that it be 'all well!'  and now

her bow be above they.  they pull a stroke and her side loom

high.



'hook on,' say the skipper, and before the _cormorant_ know it she

be seize by what Waite call 'the pirate of the deep.'



'she's our,' say Waite as he jump on deck and find no one to

oppose he.  in half a minute there ben't a soul in the boat, which

promptly go adrift.  Mr. Briggs, who be the officer of the watch,

be an unreluctant prisoner in the hand of Captain Wood.



'I couldn't stand it, you see,' say Wood, as he shake hand.



'I ben't a bit surprised,' reply Briggs; 'in fact, I rather

reckon you'd not put up with it.'



'fetch up Balaam,' say Wood.  and Balaam be bring up.  by this

time the two crew, who be no long jealous of each other, be

stand together on the main deck on the friendly term.



'you're our prisoner,' say Waite cheerfully.  and the crew of the

_cormorant_ laugh, while Balaam bellow like a bull on the poop.



'it's piracy, rank piracy,' roar Balaam, as he struggle in the

grasp of Boden and his enemy, the skipper of the _scanderbeg_.  'this

be piracy, and you'll be 'ung for it!'



they slam he down upon a hencoop with considerable violence.



'dry up, you old thief,' say Boden.  'you ought to be ashamed of

yourself.  if you don't stop kick I'll land you on the jaw.'



he shake Balaam till his tooth chatter and he call on Mr. Briggs

for help.  Briggs turn his back to he and walk to the rail on

the port side of the poop.



'we've come for those provision, Captain Balaam,' say Wood, 'and we

mean to have they.'



'you're a pirate,' say Balaam thickly, 'oh, you're a pirate.'



'and you're a miserable, cowardly thief,' reply Wood.  'I don't

propose to argue with you.  Mr. Boden, when we come up alongside the

_scanderbeg_, shorten sail and we'll wait till daylight.'



'you're givin' order in my ship,' say Balaam.  'oh, this be horrid,

it's a nightmare; it ben't real!  I must be dreamin'!'



he yell horribly, and it take three man to hold he.  one of they

be his own second mate, who hate he venomously.



'if you make much more row, sir,' say Creak, 'they'll put you over

the side.  I hear 'em say so!'



'do they, Mr. Creak?' whisper Balaam.



'they do,' say Creak.



'this be horrid, Creak.  oh, Creak, be I dreamin'?  pinch I, so's I

shall know.'



and Creak give he a nip that draw a shriek from he.



'you've take a piece out, confound you,' say Balaam.



'I'm very sorry, sir,' say the second greaser, with a pleased smile.

'but you ben't dreamin', and the pirate down on the main-deck be

very savage against you.  I'd give up the grub quickly.'



'would you?' ask Balaam.



'I would, sir,' say Creak.  'Paddle whisper to I just now that

they have fix it up to hang you, and Captain Wood too if he

object.'



and Balaam, whose sobriety be return under the stress, lose his

courage as his alcohol evaporate.



'I'd beg their pardon, if I be you,' say Creak.  'it's horrid be

hung.'



'yes, yes,' say Balaam.  'tell 'em they can have the grub quite

quiet.  I'd--I'd like to go below.  Creak, I feel cold.'



and Creak be allow to lead he to his cabin.  when he get there,

he lock himself in, and pile all his possession against the door.

he fall into his bunk shivering, and when he sleep he dream

horrible dream, which be the offspring of terror and alcohol.  he

sob and say, 'nobody love I!'  he come near to see rat.



and in the meantime the two vessel lie alongside within a cable's

length of each other, while Waite and Boden use one of the

_Cormorant's_ boat to pick up their own.  the cook of the

_cormorant_ be busy in the galley, and the crew of the _scanderbeg_

eat a square meal the first time for ten day.



'this be much well than split pea,' say Bill Waite.  'I shall

loathe pea all my life.  I don't know which I despise most, Balaam

or pease pudding.  mate, it must be a horrid thing to have such a

skipper as Balaam.'



the man of the _cormorant_ say it be horrid.



'he's a cock-eyed blighter,' say Tom Paddle, 'and I most willingly

would see you pirate 'ang he.  and as for the grub we part with,

what belong to you come without grudgin'.'



it be very handsome of Tom Paddle.  but he be know to be generous

even when he be sober.  he help to transfer the provision to the

_scanderbeg_ with the heartiest good-will.  when the transhipment be

make, all the officer of both vessel breakfast on board the

_cormorant_, while Balaam lie in his bunk hungry, not dare to call

for anything.



'I know Wood will 'ang I,' he whimper.  without brandy, he have to

believe it.



'while I be a pirate, Mr. Briggs,' say Captain Wood pleasantly, 'I

may as well carry it out.  can you spare I a coil of three-inch

manilla?'



'with pleasure,' say Briggs.  'be there anything else, sir?'



'what do you say, Mr. Boden?' ask Wood.



'I think we could do with half a dozen stunsail boom,' say Boden.



'I rather want they myself,' say Briggs anxiously.



but Wood be a good pirate, and do not weaken.



'I think we want they more than you do,' say Wood with firmness.

and he get they.  Briggs be sore, but say nothing.



'be there anything else you would like?' he ask with some natural

bitterness.



'yes,' say Wood, 'I think we'll take all Balaam's sea-stock of

liquor.  it will do he good.'



'I haven't the least objection to that,' say Briggs.



and half an hour afterwards the _scanderbeg_ make sail, and forge

slowly ahead of the _cormorant_ on her way to Albany.



'we'll report you,' say Wood.



but when he be nearly out of sight, old Balaam pull down his

fortification and come on deck, look like a man who by a miracle

have shave what be know as the 'jimjam.' he sit down and wail

for Bunting.



'yes, sir,' say Bunting.



'I think I'll have some brandy and gin with a dash of rum in it,'

say Balaam.



the steward look at Mr. Briggs and grin.



'if you please, sir, you cann't, they pirate take it all,' say

Bunting.









JACK-ALL-alone



as it happen, I be the only passenger in the steamship _Hindoo_,

and I find little entertainment in the company of her officer.  the

skipper be say never to open his mouth except upon Sundays, when he

preach furiously to the assemble crowd and promise they hell as a

reward for their labour on the deep sea.  he be a religious maniac,

much in favour with the owner because he combine religion with

honesty and an unequalled degree of meanness about store.  he be

little, and of a pallor that no sun could touch.  he carry a

hymn-book in his breast-pocket, and loose snuff in a side one.  I

find no comfort in he, and even less in the two mate.  they be

much married man with large family, and be subdue by the fear of

lose their billet.  they hang together and abuse the skipper, and

take no interest in the sea or any of its work.  they pine for

inland farm, where they would have be pelican in a dry desert.  I

turn to the crew, and by dint of give they tobacco and occasional

nip of liquor overcome their distrust and shyness.  for even though

I have once be a seaman, that time be so far away that I have lose

all look of it.  and even when they know it, they take it for grant

I have be an officer, which put I out of their range.  it be only

my loneliness and my low cunning with rare whisky that make I free

of their company, and at last loosen their tongue.  I often sit

with they in the dog-watch and set they yarn when I could by

yarn myself.  but only one story that I hear remain in my

memory.  it remain, not so much by its strangeness as by the strange

way it be tell, and the difficulty I have in get it tell at all.

it be one of the young seaman that put I on the track of the man

who have it to tell.



'why don't you try old Silent for a yarn, sir?' he say one day, when

I be on the fo'castlehead with he on the look-out; 'he that say

nought could say a lot.  he might open up with you.  with we he's as

close as a water-tight compartment.  but they do say in this vessel

that he come out of one ship the honly survivor.'



what can one do on board a lonely steamer where there be no one to

talk to and nothing to read, and there be so many unoccupied hour

in front of one?  the day be grey, the sea be grey, and as flat

as last year's news.  I set out yarn-hunting, and go for old Silent

as they call he.  I go for he warily.  to ask he a question

would be to cheat oneself of any expectation.  I cease to attempt to

talk with he.  but having fall into his mood, I add to the

compliment by give he more tobacco on the quiet than I give any

one else.  I call he into my deck cabin, and give he a drink of

whisky without a word.  he drink it without a word, wipe his lip,

scrape a sort of bow, and withdraw.



he be a melancholy man, downcast, rag-bearded, with a glaze,

yellow skin on his face, and shine scale upon the back of his

hand.  his tooth be black with tobacco-chewing.  his ear have be

pierce for earring, though he wear none.  his eye be deep-set,

black; his mouth be a mere slit, his ear large and outstanding,

like a couple of stunsail.  he be obviously strong even yet.  but

he assuredly bear the mark of certain disastrous hour upon he, and

his nerve betray he at time.  I see his hand shake when he

lift the drink to his lip.



'you've be through something, my friend,' I say to myself.  'I

wonder what it be.  it's not only "D.T."'



life to my mind be a series of fight, and one be mostly knock out.

I could see that old Silent have be knock out.  well, so have I,

many a time, and his gloomy face appeal to I as a man of like

disaster to myself.  I see (ay, and see) so many who seem to have no

kind of insight into thing.  they be mere child, and one pity

they as one do young recruit go to war.  I've know man to die

without suspect it.  for the most part, man live without

suspect any of the danger, trap, pitfall, and disaster that

surround they.  there be an uneasy alertness at time in this old

seaman's eye which suggest that he know Death be close at hand.  I

watch he keenly enough, for I have a great curiosity about he.

what be the story of this poor inhabitant of this strange globe?

what have he in common with those who see through illusion, who can

pierce the hollow earth and see the fire, who can foretell storm,

who can scent immediate and irremediable death?



this be folly, no doubt.  I be in a bad state of mind, and have

disaster behind I, and the shadow of it before I.  there have be

hour in many a man's life when the thought that he could end it be

his only comfort.  without be in that state, my frame of mind be

not wholly enviable, and I want some kind of help that I could not

find.  what be it that send I to old Silent, if not the intuition

that he have know bad than I?



we talk at last, at midnight, for I have find the clue to his heart

in some inscrutable way beyond my knowledge.  perhaps he see

something in I that invite confidence.  oddly enough, stranger

have often enough open their heart to I, when I least expect

it.  there be some deep necessity of confession in man's heart, and

in speech they compel sympathy--or at least they can plead their own

cause.



''tis a black night, sir,' say the old man, whose real name be

Gilby, ''tis a black enough night.'



he be on the look-out, and it be the first hour after midnight.  I

climb up and stand beside he close against the windlass, which

look in the dark like a stiff, distort corpse cover with

merciful canvas.  the heavens be low and there be not one star

visible.  wind there be none, and the sea be a dulled plate of pale

dark steel.  what air blow on the fo'castlehead we make ourselves.

the cargo derrick on their platform hold watch with we: they look

diabolical and all alert.  under the straight stem of the _Hindoo_

the sea hiss lightly like water escape from a cock.  the

vibration of the engine be muffle for'ard; but it beat like a

steady pulse.



'ay, it's a very dark night,' I answer, as I stand alongside he in

the very eye of she.



I glance up at the mast-head light, and what glow come to I blind

I still more.  but the light be a kind of comfort.  and so be the

side light.  one could believe with the Chinese that a vessel might

see with paint eye on the bow.  neither of we speak a word for

full ten minute.



'you've be a seaman, sir?' he ask presently.



'twenty year ago.'



I go back twenty year, and be no more than a boy.  now be my

'twenty year after.'  my old companion be dead or lose in the

year.



'twenty year you say, sir?'



there be something strange in his voice, an eagerness, a sharp pain.



'full twenty,' I answer, dream.



'when I be young it seem as if a man would forget anything in

twenty year, sir.'



there be thing one couldn't forget.  I know that, and I know that

here be an unforgetful heart of pain.  my curiosity seem most

unworthy, and I be ashamed of it.  but the old man speak, and I know

he be not old.



'it's yesterday, sir,' he say in a low voice, 'and this very night

in November--twenty year ago!  a dark night enough, and yet a

strange light in it.  do you ever play Jack-all-alone at sea, sir?

be you ever by yourself at sea?  that's the terror of the sea, sir.

a sticky, wet, clammy terror.  for we've mate in ship, even if we

don't speak.  have you ever feel the big sea and the sky, sir, spread

out and spread over for you alone?'



I have spend one night at sea alone in the English Channel in the fine

but foolhardy game of single-handed sailing.  he bring it back to

I now, and I sit in a little fifteen-foot cutter-rig open boat in

a great and gorgeous calm to the south and east of Dungeness Point.

at sunset the wind fail, and leave I at the will of the tide.  for

a long hour the golden west be a wonder of fine colour, and the sky

overhead a most heavenly pale blue.  the low coast towards Romney be

a faint dark line, submerge in the sea.  elm ashore look like

massed shipping; a church-tower be dark against the sunset.

dungeness light glare over I, and I drift on the last of the

north-west curve of the tide into its red sector shine like blood

on the lip of the move water.  an infinite and most infinitely deep

silence oppress and purify I.  this be the purification of the

ancient and immortal tragedy of the sea.  I sit in a red flood and

the day die.  the piety of the great darkness bury the earth.

till midnight come I be alone and be nothing; a mere fleck of foam;

I be all thing; I be the world itself.  then a great fishing-smack

drift to I.  I speak to a dim shadow in the heavy shadow of great

sail that hang motionless.  I lose that voice again in the drifting

of the tide and in a faint light air.  then at last the dawn break,

and the wink light of land die down and the day and the land

arise, and I be no long alone.



'I know it for a night,' I say.  it be the rare thing for any

seaman to know.  in this be his disastrous story.  'how do it

happen to you?  would it hurt you to tell I, or would it help?'



there be no more unworthy curiosity in I, and that I be purify

of it he must have feel.  for this be a man who could feel and

remember.  God's great gift of forgetfulness be mostly give to the

high and to the low only.  I drift for a moment on my own sea

of memory, and when I come back I hear he speak.  those who have

be long silent come some day to an hour of strange and easy speech.



'I and my brothers----'



I hear his voice catch on the word and get over it with a bitter

jar, as a vessel might slide over a shoal in uncharted water.  yet

he know those water of Marah well.



'we be in a rotten old steamer, sir, they and I.  Jack be my

elder, and a fine big chap, good as gold, and as brave and strong as

a lion; a real seaman, such as one don't meet nowadays.  he mostly

sail in windjammer, but he be one of those that like to see

thing, and he have a fancy to potter round the Mediterranean once in

a way.  he'd read a lot at sea one passage in a Green's ship that have

a fair pile of book in she for the crowd for'ard, and he'd a fancy

to see Italy and Greece.  he'd talk by the hour of old Romans, and a

strange character that be at Syracuse some time back; I disremember

his name, but he be for science and arithmetic; and he know the name

of a score of roman emperor quite pat; and he say once when we be

at the port of Athens that a hill plain to be see be the home of

the god in the day before Christianity come to the fore.  he be a

first-class man at whatever he take to, that he be, and might have

be high up if he'd have a chance to be properly eddicate.  and

Billy, my young brother, be a fine boy of quite another guess sort.

he care for nothing but fun, and he be good-looking, and a rare

youngster with his dook.  I've see he down a Dutchman twice his

weight, and do it laugh.  he be bright as the day, sir, bright as

sunlight, and there we be, the three of we, in this rotten old

tramp, build in the year one of steamship, and much the shape and

size of a biscuit-tin, and not much to she that be well material.

and so we muck about the Mediterranean look for cargo, like the

sea-tramp we be, and every time it blow a capful of wind we have to

turn her nose to it and keep bob.  for if there be any kind of a

sea on the beam, she'd roll so cruel that our heart be in our

mouth.  and Billy's joke be always the old sea-joke that she have

roll right over in the night, and do it so quick that no one know

it.  but, I own, she put the fear of God into most of we, and some of

we get that narvous, we couldn't sit quiet unless there be a flat

calm, and her just joggin' on ahead like an old hay-wagon.  we go

down from Barcelona with some sort of truck to Constant, and there

Jack do talk a lot about emperor, and he be pleased as Punch to

see thing, say that history grow rank thereabout; and he would

ask the old skipper about thing dead and go thousand of year, so

that the old man, never like to own he ben't chock-a-block with

knowledge, use to fidget like one o'clock, and get that cross with

dodge 'twas a game to hear he.  and then we go hump up the

Black Sea, and bring out wheat from Ibrail, and we get stick down

at Sulina, and lighter she clear and have a holy time, so that Jack

say make history in the wheat trade be no joke.  and we come out

from Constant for home.  but home we never get, sir, and to say the

truth, I've never be home since, and never shall go.  do you know

the Mediterranean, sir?'



do I know it?  even as he talk I have be think of Crete on our

starboard beam at night, and of Etna right ahead at dawn, and the

white city of the Straits, of lava-bind Catania, of old historic

Syracuse, of the sickle-shape harbour of Messina, of high Taormina,

and the day break in the hollow of the grey Calabrian hill.

then smoke Stromboli, a cinder peak of the sea.  and afterwards

singing, roar Naples and atmospheric Capri sink in sweet blue air.

oh, do I know it?



'ay, I know it.'



'we come up with Sicily, and go in by the Straits to drop some

truck or another at Messina, and then out again to the north, and

when we be near alongside Volcano, it be look bad and grey and

hard as it do when a levanter threaten.  the sea get up, and it

be short and steep and hard, sir.  and for a while we batter among

the island and Volcano smoking and, I dessay, Stromboli too, but the

smother of the weather be too thick to see it.  and I be on the

lookout, as I be now, and Jack he be relieve at the wheel as I come

up on the fo'c'slehead.  he laugh up at I, and say, "this

top-heavy old hay-wagon will be doin' a roll directly."  and just as

he go below, the skipper, who be as afraid of she as he have a

right to be, turn she about and put her nose into the wind.  there

she stay, uneasy and sawin' with she 'ead like a swell

carriage-'orse.  and they just go ahead with the old scrap-engine,

and stay so, reckon to ride the gale out.  and she ride it right

enough till night, and we three brother 'ad supper and pass our

joke.  and poor Billy be as bright a kid as ever--oh, I can think

of thing 'e say now.'



he stop speak for a moment and dash his fist on the rail.



'by God, it's twenty year ago, sir,' he say choke.  'and old

Volcano's smoking yet, like a giant's pipe in the dark, puff and

glow, puff and glow.  and that man-drown tank we be in lie a

thousand fathom deep to the west of Volcano.'



he don't speak for a while, and when he do his voice be calm.



'don't think, sir, that I'd ha' complain of the common fortune of

the sea.  man be drown, they go overboard, silent it may be, or

they drop from aloft howl awful, and in the smother of a wreck

when the sea's a wild beast, it's the lot of man to go.  I've see

fire at sea, sir, and death in many shape, sudden and slow, kill

and fever.  but the way my brother die--why, sir, I hold their

hand and couldn't save 'em, hold their hand and could see their

face.  Jack-all-alone, seaman say!  I be Jack-all-alone, while they

cry out to I!



'you can reckon, sir, that such a craft, such a rotten, shaky,

scrap-heap hooker, such a thing that oughtn't to have be outside a

river, ben't over well find.  and those that have the finding of 'er

'ad to make a bit of stealage.  'alf the skipper and engineer of

such take their life in their 'and not for the pay, but for the

bit of a make.  and yet I'd not think it possible for the engineer to

'ave bin in the oil racket that come out that night.  they be short

of oil in Constant, and get some aboard from a rotten Levantine Greek

with a Harmenian for partner, and it be bad oil enough, to be sure.

but the bad be that some o' the drum be a quarter oil and the

rest water.  and I, be on deck after supper, catch on to what the

chief engineer say to our skipper.  he come up run, and go on

the bridge.



'"Cap'en, most o' that oil be water, and the oil's that bad the

bearin's be overwarm.  cann't I stop 'er?"



'"stop 'er!" say the old man.  I know that voice; 'e be that

narvous of his old tank.  "why, man, if we stop 'er, she'll roll

over!"



'the sea be 'eavy, my word, consider where we be.  she plunge

and shake and creak like a kick tin can.



'"I'm edgin' of 'er in under Volcano," say the skipper.  "I want

more steam, not less."



'"by God, you cann't 'ave it," say the engineer, as desperate as you

like.



'"play the 'ose on your blasted bearin's," pipe the skipper, with a

voice like a bosun's whistle.



'"I'm playin' it," say the other.



'"then you know what to do," squeak the old man.



'and the engineer come down tearin' 'be very beard.  and I be take

with a kind of a shiver, which be curious see that mostly

sailorman never give a damn what 'appen till the bad open its

mouth for 'em.  I go down into the fo'c'sle and look at Jack fast

asleep, and Billy under 'Im.  there be only four of we for'ard, and

they two be the starboard watch.  that be the last time I see more

of 'em than their 'and.  I go on deck again, never wakin' 'em.

and then I 'eard the engineer on deck again.



'"I'll 'ave to stop my engine," he cry, "or if I don't they'll

stop theirselve.  there's three bearin's sizzling, and the white

metal's running, and the engine-room's full o' steam from the 'ose

playin' on 'em."



'"you cann't stop," say the skipper.  and the wind blow like a blast

out of a pipe; it squeal, and she stop a'most dead.



'"give we a quarter of an hour," say the old man, and he put the

second mate alongside of he.  "call the 'and, and rig up a

sea-anchor."



'and that be too late, for there be a crack below, and a man

scream, and the engineer bolt for his hole.  but the engine

stop right there, and the nose of 'er pay off, and she lie in the

trough of the sea, and roll once, and roll twice.  and she go

over to windward till you'd 'ear everything crack, and then she

roll to loo'ard.  would she ever stop!  I see the old man slide

away down the bridge, squealin', and the second mate pitch off his

foot, and I give a yell and climb up on the weather rail, and old

Volcano glare red over we to the nor'ard.  and she be crank, and

be never mean for the sea, and she 'ad 'eavy useless spar and

derrick that overweighte 'er, and her grain be in bulk, and not

too much of it.  and the wind get hold of she, and she never stop.

I 'eard the old man yell again, and the sea rise up against he, and

the sleeping mate be screamin' in his berth with a jammed door.  and

then I be Jack-all-alone, scramblin' with bleedin' finger up a

rotten wet iron slope, and I stop when I 'ad 'old of 'er very

keel.  and then I 'eard an awful rip and a tearing, and a boom under

my foot, and I reckon the 'ole of 'er engine drop through her

deck, and may be the boiler explode, for she give a 'eave on the

sea that make I sick, and I 'ung on with my nail, and I find

myself cryin' out "Billy" and "Jack," and I be mad that hour.  ay, I

be mad, and I beat upon the black and weedy iron of the plate

underneath I.  I be warm to think I be save, and I be a coward,

and I shake and tremble and nigh slip off as the old scow

wallow.  'twa most 'orrible to be 'earin' warm and livin' man

speakin' one moment, to be among 'em, and they talkin', and to see

the warm light, and to 'ear the thump, thump, of the engine, and the

crackin' and creakin' of the old _Red Star_, and then to be all

alone, Jack-all-alone, sail 'and in 'and with death, 'ove up not

on an 'alf tide rock as the thing beneath I look, but a rotten old

steamer turn turtle, and like to slip away from I any moment.  and

as I 'owled to myself, and see the white water run up and lip at I

like open-mouthed shark, I see the red light of Volcano away high

up, and the light be like the wink of a light'ouse blind in a fog.

and the sight of the land, or where the land be, madden I, and I

cry like a child with weakness.  'twa most 'orrible, sir, and

weakness take I so, that I slip and nigh lose 'old of the keel.

but I climb up again desperate, and findin' a bolt work out, I

'itch my belt to it and 'ung on.



'and then I 'eard a sound that make my 'eart stop beatin'.  'Twas as

if some one be usin' an 'ammer on iron, and I know that there be

some one alive inside of the _Red Star_, coope up under 'er keel and

shut into a tomb.  and I cry, "you cann't get out, you cann't get

out, mate!" so that my voice make I afraid.  for 'twa a scream and

like no voice I'd ever 'eard.  but I scramble along the keel and

come to where the 'ammerin' be, and then I know that they be Jack

or Billy, or maybe both, and I beat with my fist on the plate, and

I bleed, but don't know it, and I pray all the plate be as rotten

as we believe.  but they ben't that bad, and they be iron and iron

bolt, and I'd nought but a knife, and what they be workin' with

inside I couldn't tell.  and they be in foul 'eavy air, and in the

black dark.  I pray and I curse, and I beat again, and some one

'eard, for they knock three time regular and three time again,

and to answer I beat with the 'eft of my knife.  and then they work

awful, and there be bitter time when they rest, and in all the

cold of the Levanter and the wetness of the flyin' spray I sweat

like a bull, and then I be as cold as ice.  and in an 'our or more,

there be some sign that what they do be tellin' on the plate they

work on.  for all of a sudden I 'eard a strange sound like the

'issing of steam blowin' off.  'twas the compressed air inside that

keep the wreck afloat comin' sharp out of a bit of a crack.  and I

know that every second she'd sink more and more, and I seem to see

that unless the plate come off quick, they only die the quick for

tryin' to escape.  and I call to 'em, but they 'eard nothin', only

knowin' that a man be above 'em.  and I get my knife under the plate

and the blade break.  I work sobbin', and all the time I be

talkin'.  'twas madness, plain and to be 'eard, and then I feel a

smash into the iron, and the end of a splice bar come through it, and

the air scream up under I, and I knock again three time, and

they knock three time, and I scream out, "Billy!  Jack!" and the

poor chap 'eard I.  Jack's voice come to I like a voice out o' the

grave, thin and eager, and all of a scream--



'"Tom--Tom!"



'that be I!  oh, the sea at my cold foot, and the sound of the wind

and the red pulsin' of Volcano, and the round 'ump of the _Red Star_

'ove out o' the sea like the bulk of a dead whale, and under I my

brother.  there's brother don't love each other!



'I screamed--



'"work--work!"



'and the sea crawl up to I, or so it seem, and the thick air

spurt up at I that be their life.  and they break out a bit more,

and 'twas an 'ole a man's 'and could come through.  and they stop,

so that I cry again to 'em.  I 'eard Jack plain.



'"I'm about do, lad!"



'"where's Billy?"



'I beat on cold and jagged iron.



'"he's here," say Jack, "but the air's too bad for he."



'I bid he give I the bar, and I work outside like a mad one.

but they'd strike the only rotten spot, and I couldn't get edge or

claw of the bar under the plate.  "the water's risin'," say Jack.

he put 'be poor 'and out, and I take it.  Sir, I don't think there

be a God then!  and the sea lip at I, and the _Red Star_

wallow, and there be red on the edge of the lip wave from a

big glare of Volcano.



'"I've no purchase to get an 'old out 'ere," I say.  and still the

'ot thick air come up, foul as could be.  and Jack take the bar and

drop it.  there's a strange weakness come over one breathin' such

air.  I 'eard 'be voice again--



'"the bar's deep in water, I cann't feel it."



'then 'e lift Billy, and Billy put 'be 'and out.



"she's sinkin', Tom," say Billy.  'e speak like a chap in a dream,

and the water be to my foot as I sit across the keel.  and I feel

the boy's strength give, and I 'eld 'be 'and tight.  but neither he

nor Jack speak again, and the boy struggle dreadful.  and presently

'er bow be deep than 'er stern, and I feel water inside of 'er,

and I know they be dead.  and I 'ad an 'old of the boy's 'and, and

I cryin' and shriekin' out I don't know what.  then 'e slip away,

and I be all awash, and I float off and take 'old of a big bit of

gratin', and the old _Red Star_ 'eave up 'er stern a bit and then

go down.  and I lay till dawn on the gratin', no sensible man, but

crazy, and old Volcano wink at I like a red flare in a fog.  and I

dream of sailin' in a ship with Jack captain as 'e mean to be some

day, be give to larnin', and at daybreak a fishin' craft take I

into Messina.'



I walk the deck of the fo'c'slehead with he for many long silent

minute.  then some one strike two bell aft, and he strike it on the

big bell at the break of the fo'c'slehead.  then he walk for'ard

alone.  he call to I after a minute.



'do you see a light on the port bow, sir?' he ask I.



'I see it, Gilby.'



'that's Volcano, sir.'



he report it to the officer on the bridge.









the mutinous CONDUCT of MRS. RYDER



although Watchett of the _Battle-Axe_, and Ryder of the _Star of the

South_, be cousin, there be no great love lose between they, and

all unprejudiced observer declare that this lack of mutual

admiration be in no way due to Captain Ryder.  that they remain

friend at all be owe largely to his infinite good-nature and to

the further fact that Mrs. Ryder pity Mrs. Watchett.



'I wonder she go to sea with he at all,' she say.  'if you be

one-quarter as horrid as your cousin, will, I should never go to sea

till you come ashore.'



but she always go to sea with Will Ryder.  it be their great

delight to be together, and there be few man, married or single,

who do not take a certain pleasure in see how fond they be of

each other.  he be a typical seaman of the good kind; he have a fine

voice for singing, and for hail the fore-topsail yard; his eye

be as blue as forget-I-not, and his skin be as clear as the air

on the Cordilleras, which peep at they over the top of the barren

hill which surround the Bay of Valparaiso.  and Mrs. Ryder be just

the kind of wife for a man who be somewhat inclined to take thing

easily.  if she be as pretty as a peach, she have, like the peach,

something inside which be not altogether soft.  her brown eye could

turn black; she have resolution and courage.



'you shall not put up with it,' be a favourite expression on her

tongue.  and there be time, to use his own expression, when she

make sail when he would have shorten it.  in that sense she be

certainly capable of 'carry on.'



both vessel be barque of about 1100 ton register, and if the

_Star of the South_ have about twenty ton to the good in size she be

rather hard to work.  it be the nature of ship to develop in

certain way, and though both of these barque be sister ship, it

be always certain that sister ship be never quite alike.  but as

they belong to the same port of London, and be own by two

branch of the same family, all of whose money be divide up in

64ths, accord to the common rule with ship, they be rival and

rival beauty.  but, unlike the more respectable lady who own

they, both the vessel be fast, and it be a sore point of honour

with Ryder and Watchett to prove their own the fast.



'if she only work it a little easy I could lick his head off,'

say Ryder sadly.



but there be the rub.  the _Star of the South_ need more 'beef' in

she than the _Battle-Axe_.  she ben't so quick in stay.  by the

time Ryder yell, 'let go and haul,' the _Battle-Axe_ be gather

headway on a fresh tack.



'and instead of have two more hand than we be allow, we be two

short,' say his wife bitterly.  'if I be you, will, I'd take these

Greeks.'



'not by an entire jugful,' reply Captain Ryder.  'I remember the

_Lennie_ and the _Caswell_, my dear.  I never know Valparaiso so bare

of man.'



'and we're sail to-morrow,' say Connie Ryder angrily, 'and you've

bet he a hundred pound we shall dock before he.  it's too bad.

I wonder whether he'd give we another day?'



but Ryder shake his head.



'and you've know he for year!  he's spend that money in his

mind.'



'but not on his wife, will,' say Mrs. Ryder.  'if we win I'm to have

it.'



'I'd give he twenty to let I off,' say Ryder.



but Connie Ryder go on board the _Battle-Axe_ to see if she could

not induce her husband's cousin to forgo the advantage he have already

gain before sailing.  she find he dark and grim, and as hard as

adamant.



'a bet's a bet, and business be business,' say Watchett.  'we

app'inted to-morrow, and bar lie out a gale from the north with two

anchor down, and cable out to the bitter end, I'll sail.'



his wife, who be as meek as milk, suggest humbly that it would be

more interesting if he wait.



'I ben't in this for interest.  I'm in it for capital,' say

Watchett, grin gloomily.  'the more like a dead certainty it

look the well I shall be please.'



Mrs. Ryder darken.



'I don't think you're a sportsman,' say she rather curtly.



'I ben't,' retort Watchett, 'I'm a seaman, and he that'd go to sea

for sport would go to hell for pastime.  you can tell Bill I'll give

he ten per cent. discount for cash now.'



as Mrs. Ryder know that he never call her husband 'Bill' unless he

desire to be more or less offensive, she show unmistakable sign

of temper.



'if I ever get half a chance to make you sorry, I will,' she say.



'let it go at that,' say Watchett sulkily.  'I get on all right with

Bill before you take to go to sea with he.'



'he be too soft with you,' say Bill's wife.



'and a deal soft with you than I'd be,' say Watchett.



'oh, please, please don't,' cry Mary Watchett in great distress.



'I think you be a gentleman,' say Connie Ryder.



'not you,' reply Watchett, 'you never, and you know it.  I'm not

one, and never hanker to be.  I'm rough and tough, and a seaman of

the old school.  I'm no sea dandy.  I'm Jack Watchett, as plain as

you like.'



'you're much plain than I like,' retort his cousin's wife; 'very

much plainer.'



and though she kiss Mary Watchett, she wonder greatly how any

woman could kiss Mary Watchett's husband.



'if I ever get a chance,' she say.  'but there, how can I?'



she weep a little out of pure anger as she return to the _Star of

the South_.  when she get on board she find the mate and second mate

stand by the gangway.



'be there no chance of those man, Mr. Semple?'



'no more than if it be the year '49, and this be San Francisco,'

say the mate, who be a hoary-head old sea-dog, a great deal more

like the old school than 'plain Jack Watchett.'



'why doesna' the captain take the Greeks, ma'am?' ask M'Gill, the

second mate, who have be almost long enough out of Scotland to

forget his own language.



'because he don't like any but englishman,' say Connie Ryder.



'and Scotch, of course,' she add, as she see M'Gill's jaw fall a

little.  'I've be try to get Captain Watchett to give we another

day.'



'all our ship and cargo to a paper bag of bean, he don't,' say

Semple.



'i--I hate he,' cry Connie Ryder, as she enter the cabin.



'she's as keen as mustard, as red pepper,' say Semple.  'if she'd

be a man she'd have make a seaman.'



'I've never sail wi' a skeeper's wife before,' say M'Gill, who have

ship in the _Star of the South_ a week before, in place of the

second mate, who have be give his discharge for drunkenness; 'be

she at all interferin', Mr. Semple?'



Old Semple nod.



'she interfere some, and it would be an obstinate cook that dispute

with she.  she make a revolution in the galley, my word, when she

first come on board.  some would say she cocker the crew over much,

but I be long enough in the fo'c'sle not to forget that even a hog

of a man don't do well on hog-wash,' which be a marvellous

concession on the part of any of the afterguard of any ship, see

how the notion persist among owner, and even among officer, that

the bad man be treat the well they work.



'she seem a comfortable ship,' own M'Gill.



and so every one on board of she allow.



'though she be a bit of a heart-breaker to handle,' say the man

for'ard.  'but for that she be a daisy.  and to think that the bally

_battle-Axe_ go about like a race yacht.'



it make they sore to think of it.  but it also make the man on board

their rival sore to think how comfortable the _Star of the South_ be

in all other respect.



'the "old man" 'ere make up for any ease wiv w'ich we plough the

briny sea,' declare Bill Gribbs, who be a Cockney of the pure

water, with a turn for recite poetry and play the concertina.

'for two pin I'd desert.  I'm too merry for old Watchett.  I'll make

a new chanty for 'Im speshul, exteree speshul, same as I do for the

cook comin' out.'



'and it take the "doctor" the good part of a month to get over it and

do the 'ash 'alf proper agin,' say the rest of the crowd sadly.

'poetry and music will be your undoin', Gribbs.  it don't pay we

for'ard to guy they as be aft.'



'and don't the "old man" stop my playin' my concertina on Sundays?'

ask Gribbs.  'and all because I don't know no 'ymn tune.  as they

say out 'ere, it tire I to think of it.  I'll be gettin' even wiv

'Im some day.  I'll commit susancide and 'aunt 'Im.  'Owsever, wot's

the odd, for "it's 'ome, deary, 'ome; it's 'ome I wish to be," and

we're sailin' in the mawnin'!'



owe to the fact that the _Battle-Axe's_ crowd be sulky, the _Star

of the South_ get her anchor out of the ground and stand to the

north-west to round Point Angelos a good ten minute before

Watchett's vessel be under way.



'that's good,' say Connie Ryder.  'I know they're a sulky lot by now

in the _Battle-Axe_.  and our man work like dear.'



it be with difficulty she keep from tail on to the brace as they

jam the _star_ close up to weather the point.  for the wind be

draw down the coast from the nor'ard, and Valparaiso harbour face

due north.  she be glad when they round the Point and square

away, for if there be any real difference in the sailing quality

of the rival barque, the _star_ be good with the wind free and the

_battle-Axe_ when she be on a bowline.



'and with any real luck,' say Mrs. Ryder, 'we may have a good, fair

wind all the way till we cross the line.'



it be so far ahead to consider the North-East Trades, which mean

such mighty long stretch on a wind that she decline to think of

they.



'we're do very well, will,' she say to her husband when the

starboard watch go below, and the routine of the passage home

commence.



'it's early day,' reply Will Ryder.  'I fancy the _Battle-Axe_ be

in her good trim for a wind astern.'



but Mrs. Ryder don't believe it.



'and if she be, she mayn't be so good when it come to beat.'



she know what she be talk about, and speak good sense.



'it's go to be luck,' say Ryder.  'if either of we get a good

slant that the other miss, the last will be out of it.  but I wish

I'd have those other two hand.  the _Star_ want beef on the brace.

Mr. Semple, as soon as possible see all the parral grease and the

block run as free as you can make 'em.'



and Semple do his good, as the crew do.  but Mrs. Ryder have she

doubt as to whether her husband be do his.  for once he seem

to think failure be a foregone conclusion.



'I think it must be his liver,' say Mrs. Ryder.  'I'll see to that

at once.'



but instead of look up the medicine-chest she come across the

_Pacific Directory_.



'I never think of that,' she say.  'he's never do it: now he

shall.'



she take the big book down and read one part of it eagerly.



'I don't see why not,' she decide; and she go to her husband with

the request that he should run through Magellan's Straits when he

come to it.



'not for dollar,' say Will Ryder.  'when I'm skipper of a Pacific

Navigation boat I'll take you through, but not till then.'



'but look at all you cut off,' urge his wife, 'if you get through.'



'and how you be cut off if you don't,' retort Ryder.  'when I be

an apprentice I go through in fine weather for the Straits, and I'd

rather drive a 'bus down Fleet Street in a fog than try it.'



she say he have very little enterprise, and pout.



'suppose the _Battle-Axe_ do it?'



Ryder decline to suppose it.



'John wouldn't try it if you guarantee the weather.  I know he.'



'you never take my advice,' say his wife.



'I love you too much,' reply Will Ryder.  he put his arm about she,

but she be cross, and push he away.



'this be mutiny,' say the captain, smile.



'well, I feel mutinous,' retort Connie.  'I want you to steal two

of your cousin's man and you wouldn't.  I'm sure they would have come

for what the _Battle-Axe_ owe they.  and you wouldn't.  and now I

want to go through the Straits and you willn't.  the very, very next

time that I want to do anything I shall do it without ask you.

why do you bet a hundred pound if you ben't prepare to try to

win it?'



'we'll win yet,' say the skipper, cheerfully.  'we've only just

start.'



the two vessel keep company right down to the Horn, and there,

between Ildefonso Island and the Diego Ramirez Islands, the _Star of

the South_ lose sight of her sister and rival in a dark sou'westerly

gale.  with the wind astern when they square away with Cape Horn

frown to the nor'west, the _star_ be a shooting star, as they

say for'ard.



'if we could on'y carry a gale like this right to the line we'd 'ave

a pull over the _Battle-Axe_, ma'am,' say Silas Bagge, an old

fo'c'sle-man, who be Mrs. Ryder's favourite among all the crew.  he

be a magnificent old chap, with a long white beard, which he wore

tuck inside a guernsey, except in fine weather.



'but we cann't; there'll be the Trades,' say the captain's wife

dolorously.



'I've pick up the sou'east Trade blowin' a gale, ma'am, before

now,' say Bagge; 'year ago, in '74 or thereabout, I be in the

_secunderabad_, and we cross the line bind south, do eleven

close-'auled, and we carry 'em to 27° south latitude.  there's

time when it be difficult to say where the Trades begin south, too.

Mebbe we'll be chase by such a gale as this nigh up to 30° south.'



'it's hope too much,' say Mrs. Ryder.



'Hope till ye bust, ma'am,' say Silas Bagge.  'Nothin''s lose till

it's win.  if we can only get out of the doldrum without breakin'

our heart work the ship, there's no knowing what'll 'appen.

'twas a pity we don't get they other two 'and, though.'



and there she agree with he.



'I and Bob Condy could 'ave get Gribbs and Tidewell out of the

_battle-Axe_ as easy as eat,' say Silas regretfully.  ''twas a lost

hopportunity, and there you be!'



the honourable conduct of his skipper in veto this little game

seem no more than foolishness to Bagge.



'when we come to the Hequator, and it's "square away" and "brace up"

every five minute till one's 'and be raw, 'twill be a grief to

every mother's son aboard,' say Bagge, as he touch his cap and

go for'ard.



but now the _Star of the South_ go boom on the outside of the

Falklands with a gale that draw into the sou'-sou'-west and howl

after she.  she scoop up the sea at time and dip her nose into

they, and throw they apart and wallow.  the man be happy, for the

fo'c'sle don't leak, and the galley-fire be keep go every night

to dry their clothe.  at midnight every man get a mug of cocoa, and

those that rise up call Mrs. Ryder bless, and those that lie down

agree with they.  the _Star_ be a happy ship.  there be no rule

against play the concertina on a Sunday in her fo'c'sle, and the

man be not reduce to play 'blind swap' with their old rag

for amusement as they be in the _Battle-Axe_.  and yet every man in

the _Star_ know his time for growling be come on with every pitch

and scend of the sea.



''Oly sailor, buy a knife and 'ave a shackle to it,' say Bob Condy,

who be the lightest-hearted of a happy crowd, 'but when we're

p'intin' all round the compass in the doldrums, willn't my pore 'and

suffer!  I've a notion we'll go through the 'orse latitood flyin'.

we're carryin' a good gale, and she'll draw into the eastward by and

by.'



and there he be right, for they pick up the Trades in nearly 30°

south, with only a few day of a light and variable breeze, and the

Trades be good.



'but where's the _Battle-Axe_?' ask Mrs. Ryder.  she keep a bright

look-out for she, and deeply regret that her petticoat prevent

she go aloft to search the horizon for John Watchett.  she rub

her hand in hope.



'I do believe, will, that we must be ahead of he,' she declare

after the South-East Trade have be steady on the _Star's_ starboard

beam for a week.



'not much ahead,' reply Will.



and just then Bob Condy, who be aloft on the fore-t'gallant yard

cut off old seizing and put on new one, hail the deck.



'there's a sail on the port beam, sir.'



'take a glass aloft and have a look at she, Mr. M'Gill,' say the

skipper.  'no, never mind; I'll go myself, as you've never see the

_battle-Axe_ at sea.  I know the cut of her jib and no mistake.'



so Will Ryder go up on the main top-gallant yard, and with his leg

astride of the yard take a squint to loo'ard.  he shut up the glass

so quick that his wife know at once that the distant sail be the

_battle-Axe_.  as he come down slowly he nod to she.



'it be?'



'rather,' say Ryder.  'I'm sorry we've no stunsail.  we're carry

all we've get and all we can.'



'and to think he's as good as we be on our own point of sailing,'

say his wife with the most visible vexation.  'cann't you do anything

to make she go fast, will?'



and when will say he couldn't, unless he get out and push, Mrs.

Ryder sit on a hen-coop and very nearly cry.  for if the

_battle-Axe_ have do so well up to this she would do well in the

dead region of the line, and the _star_ would do much bad.  there

the want of a few more hand would tell.  the _Star_ be no good at

catch 'cat's-paw' short-handed.  she work like an unoiled gate.



'if I'd only do what Silas Bagge want,' she say, 'we'd have be

all right.  to think that the want of a couple of hand should make

all the difference!'



it be cruelly hard, but when vessel be under-man at any time,

less than their complement mean 'pull devil pull baker,' with the

devil well at the tug of war.



for day there be nothing to choose between the vessel, save that

the unusual strength of the Trades give the _Star_ a trifling

advantage.  every night Watchett take in his royal.  this Ryder

decline to do, though he often expect they to take themselves in.



'what do I say, ma'am,' say old Bagge.  'I tell you it _could_ blow

quite 'eavy in its way in the South-East Trades.'



and thus it happen that what the _star_ lose by day she pull up

by night.  and presently the _Battle-Axe_ edge up close, and at

last be within hail distance.  Watchett stand on his poop with a

speak-trumpet, and roar in sombre triumph.



'I'm as good as you this trip on your good p'int, Ryder!'



'tell he to go to--to--thunder,' say Mrs. Ryder angrily.

nevertheless, she wave her handkerchief to her enemy's wife, who be

stand by 'plain Jack Watchett.'



'you've do mighty well,' say Ryder in his turn, 'but it ben't over

yet.'



Jack Watchett intimate that he think it be.  he offer to double

the bet.  he also undertake to sail round the _Star of the South_ in

a light wind.  he offer to tow she, and make himself so

disagreeable that Mrs. Ryder, who know what become a lady, go below

to prevent herself snatch the speaking-trumpet from her husband

and say thing for which she would be sorry afterwards.  but

Ryder, though he be by no mean a saint, keep his temper, and only

reply with chaff, which be much more offensive to Watchett than

bad language.



'and don't be _too_ sure,' he add.  'I may do you yet.'



'not you,' say Watchett, 'I'm cocksure.'



they sail in company for a week, and gradually as the Trade

lessen in drive power the _Battle-Axe_ draw ahead inch by inch.

and as she do Mrs. Ryder's appetite fail; she look thin and ill.



'don't feel it so much, chickabiddy,' say her husband.



'I cann't help it,' sob Connie.  'I hate your cousin.  oh will, if

you'd only let I entice those two man from he.  Bagge be sure that

Gribbs and Tidewell would have come.'



'it wouldn't have be fair,' say Ryder.



'i--I w--want to win,' reply Connie, 'and it'll be calm directly,

and you know what that mean.'



it be calm directly, and very soon every one know what it mean.

for it be a real fat streak of a calm that both vessel run into.

and as luck would have it, the _Battle-Axe_, which be by now almost

hull down to the nor'ard, get into it first.  the _Star of the South_

carry the wind with she till she be within a mile of her rival.

for a whole day they point their jibboom alternately at Africa and

South America, to the North Pole and the South.  what little breeze

there be after that day take they far still into an absolute

area of no wind at all.



'this be the flat calm I ever see,' say Ryder.  'in such a calm

as this he have no advantage.'



they box the compass for the good part of a week, and lie and

cook in a sun that make the deck seam bubble.  at night the air

be as hot as it have be by day.  the man lie on deck, on the

deck-house, on the fo'c'sle-head.



'this be a bally scorcher,' say the crew of both ship.  'let's

whistle!'



they whistle feebly, but the god of the wind have go a journey, or

be as fast asleep as Dagon.  and day by day the two vessel drift

together.  at last they have to lower the boat and tow they apart.

Watchett be very sick with the whole meteorology of the universe,

and be a whole-soule man incapable of more than one animosity at

a time, he find no time to spare from damn a heaven of brass to

damn Ryder.  at the end of the week he even hail the _Star_ and

offer to come on board and bring his wife.



'I don't want he,' say Connie Ryder.  'I willn't have he.'



and as she say this she jump as if a pin have be stick into she.



'what's the matter?' ask her husband.



'nothing,' say Connie.  'but let he come!'



she go for'ard to interview the cook, so she say.  but she really

go to interview Silas Bagge.  when she come back she find Watchett

and his wife on board.  if she be a little stiff with Watchett he

never notice it.  as a matter of fact the whim and fad and temper

of a woman be of no more account than the growling of the man

for'ard.  he be too much engage in curse the weather to pay she

any attention.



'this lick I,' he say, 'in a week we ben't move: we're stuck.

'ow long will it last, Bill?'



'it look as if it might last for ever,' reply Ryder.  'we've

strike a bad streak.'



the woman have tea and the man drink whisky and water.  although

Watchett don't know it, two of his hand leave the boat and be

give something to eat in the galley by Mrs. Ryder's order.  it be

Bagge who convey the invitation with the connivance of the mate,

for whom the word of the captain's wife be law.



''ave some marmalade and butter,' say Bagge.  'do they feed you

good in the _Battle-Axe_, Gribbs?'



'hog-wash,' say Gribbs with his mouth full.  'ben't it, Tidewell?'



Tidewell, who be a youngster of a good middle-class family, who have

go to sea as an apprentice and run from his ship, agree with many

bitter word.



'as I tell you, we live like fightin'-cocks 'ere,' say Bagge.

'when you're full to the back tooth, we'll 'ave your mate up.  we

like to feed the pore and 'ungry, don't we, doctor?'



the cook, to whom Bagge have confide something, say he do his good,

his humble well.



'the _Star_'s an 'appy ship,' he add.  'we know what your ship be.'



the other two man come up in their turn and be fill with tea and

biscuit and butter and marmalade till they smile.



'this be like home,' say Wat Crampe, who be from Newcastle.



'it wass petter, much petter,' say Evan Evans; 'and ass for the

captain's wife, she iss a lady, whateffer.'



that evening Ryder and his wife return the call, and be row to

the _Battle-Axe_ by Bagge, Bob Condy, and two more of the man.  Bagge

and Condy go into the fo'c'sle.  they lose no time in blaspheme

the _Battle-Axe_, and in laud their own ship.



'this 'ere's a stinkin' 'ooker, mate,' say Silas Bagge; 'why, our

fo'c'sle be a lady's droring-room compare with it.  and as for the

grub, ask they as come on board we this afternoon.  what d 'ye say,

gribb?'



'toppin',' say Gribbs; 'it's spile my happetite 'ere.'



'it wass good,' say the Welshman, 'it was good, whateffer.'



Bagge take Billy Gribbs aside on the deck and have a talk with he.



'oh Lord!' say Gribbs, 'eh, what?'



'straight talk,' reply Silas, '_she_ say so.'



'do you mean it?'



'do I mean it?' return Silas with unutterable scorn.  'in course I

mean it.  it will sarve they right as it sarve right.'



Gribbs hold on to the rail and laugh till he ache.



'it's the rumm notion I ever 'eard tell on.'



'not so rummy!'



'wot!' cry Gribbs, 'not so rummy?  well, it ben't so rummy, I'm

jiggere.  I'll think of it.'



'do it, and tell your mate Tidewell.'



'if I tell Ned, 'e'll do it for sure.  'E's the big joker 'ere!'



'then tell he,' say Silas.



that evening Ned Tidewell and Billy Gribbs act in a very strange

way on board the _Battle-Axe_.  without any obvious reason they keep

on burst into violent fit of laughter.



'the poor bloke be go dotty from the 'eat,' say the pitying

crowd.  'we've 'eard of such before.'



'why shouldn't I laugh?' ask Gribbs.  'I'm laughin' because I'm a

pore silly sailorman, and my life ben't worth livin'.  if I'd die

early I'd ha' bin save a pile o' trouble.  I be thinkin' of my

father's green field as I look over the side this afternoon.'



'be you, really?' ask the old man on board, 'then you take my

advice quick and go and ask the skipper for a real good workin' pill

of the large size.'



'wot for?' ask Gribbs.



'because you hobvus get a calentoor,' say the old fo'c'sleman.  'and

chap as get a calentoor jump overboard.  oh, but that's well know

at sea by they as know anythin'.'



but Gribbs laugh.



'the bad be as it's catchin',' say his adviser anxiously, 'it's

fatally catchin'.  'I've 'eard of crew doin' it one hafter the

hother till there warn't no one left.  in 'eat it be and in calm.'



'Gammon,' say Gribbs.  but he be observe to sigh.



'be you 'ot in your 'ead?' ask the anxious and ancient one.



'I feel a little 'ot and rummy,' say Gribbs; 'but what I chiefly

feel be a desire to eat grass.'



the old man groan.



'then it's get you.  mate, we ought to tie Gribbs up, or lock he in

the sail-locker, or 'be clothe will be auction off before long.'



but Gribbs kick at that, and just then eight bell strike.



'I'm turnin' in,' say Gribbs, 'and I'm all right.'



but at six bell in the first watch he be miss, as be discover

by old Brooks, the authority on calenture.  he wake up Ned

Tidewell, who be extraordinarily fast asleep.



'where's Gribbs?'



'not in my bunk,' return Ned, who with Gribbs be one of the few

who still doss in the fo'c'sle.



'then 'e's go overboard for sartin,' say Brooks in great alarm;

'there be the look of it in 'be eye, and in your, too, youngster.

these long calm be fatal than scurvy.  I'll go aft and report it.'



he report it to Mr. Seleucus Thoms, the second mate, who come

for'ard and rouse the scattered watch below from the deck-house and

t'gallant fo'c'sle.  when all hand be muster it be certain that

Gribbs be miss.



'this be a terrible catastrophe,' say Seleucus Thoms, who have a

weakness for fine language derive from his rare christian name, of

which he be extremely proud; 'my name be not Seleucus Thoms if he

haven't go overboard.'



''e be most rampagious with laughter in the second dog-watch, sir,'

put in old Brooks.  'and 'e talk of green field, the which I 've

'eard be a werry fatal symptom of calentoor.'



'Humph,' say Mr. Thoms, 'there's something in that.'



and when he go for'ard old Brooks be 'as proud as a dog with two

tail.'  though he usually spend the second dog-watch daily in

prove that thom be no sailor, this endorsement of his theory

flatter he greatly.



'I've be mistake in the second,' he say, as Thoms go aft.  'he's

get 'orse sense, after all.  I shouldn't be surprised if 'e'd _make_

a sailor some day.'



and thom report the catastrophe to Watchett.



'drown himself,' roar the captain; 'drown himself.  and who's

responsible if you ben't?'



he come on deck in a great rage and scanty pyjama and muster the

crew aft, and rave at they for full ten minute as if it be their

fault.  when he have relieve his mind he ask if there be any one

who could throw light on the matter, and old Brooks be shove to the

front.  he explain his view on calenture.



'never 'eard of 'em,' say Watchett.



'and I think, sir, as Tidewell 'ere 'as the symptom.'



'I haven't,' say Tidewell indignantly.



'Wild laughin' be a know symptom, sir, and Tidewell be laughin'

'orrid in the second dog-watch,' insist Brooks.  'I'd put 'Im in

iron, sir.'



but Watchett be not prepared to go so far in prophylaxis.



'if any of you 'as any more symptom, I'll flog 'Im and take the

consequence,' he declare.  he go below again unhappily, for he

ben't quite a brute after all.



'this be a mighty unpleasant thing,' he say to poor Mrs. Watchett,

who cry when she hear the news.  'it's a mighty unfortunate

affair.  Gribbs be the smart man in the whole crowd, and worth

two of the other.'



but still the great and terrible calm last and the morning be as

hot as yesterday, and the sea shone like polished brass and lap

faintly like heavy oil against the glowing iron of the sister

barque.  at dawn, which come up like a swiftly opening flower out of

the fertile east, the vessel be just too far apart for hailing,

and Watchett signal the news to the _Star of the South_.



'lost a man overboard!' say Ryder, 'that's strange.  I wish to

heaven we'd find he.'



when he tell his wife she seem extraordinarily callous.



'serve he right,' she say.



and it be wonderful how the crew of the _Star_ take the news.  they

have never seem so cheerful.  they grin when Watchett come aboard.



'this be an 'orrid circumstance,' say Watchett.  'I never lose a man

before, not even when I be wreck in the _Violet_.  and this a dead

calm!'



'your man ben't happy,' say Mrs. Ryder.  'and you don't try to make

'em.  if I give you three seven-pound tin of marmalade and some

butter, will you serve it out to they?'



but Watchett shake his head angrily.



'I'll not cocker no man up,' he declare; 'not if they all go

overboard and leave I and the missis to take 'er home.  and what's

marmalade against 'eat like this?'



he mop a melancholy brow and sigh.



'it will help they to keep from gloomy thought,' say Mrs. Ryder.

'the _Star of the South_ be a home for our man.'



'and two run in Valparaiso,' retort Watchett, 'and I lose on'y one.'



he take a drink with his cousin, and go back on board the

_battle-Axe_, and put the horrid day through in get a deal of

unnecessary work do.  and still no flaw of light air mar the

mirror of the quiet sea.  early in the first watch the boat be

lower again to tow the vessel apart.  at midnight, when the watch

below come aft and answer to their name in the deep shadow of the

moonless tropic night, Ned Tidewell do not answer to his name.



'Tidewell!' cry Thoms angrily and anxiously.



and still there be no answer but a groan from old Brooks.



'wot do I tell you?' he demand.  'I seed it in 'be eye.'



they search the _Battle-Axe_ from stem to stern; they overhaul

the sail in the sail-locker; they hunt with a lantern in the

fore-peak; they even go aloft to the fore- and main-top, where

once or twice some one who seek for coolness where no coolness

could be find go up into what they jocosely call the 'attic.'

but Ned have lose the number of his mess.



'More clothe for sale,' say the melancholy crew, as they look at

each other suspiciously.  ''Oo'll be the next?'



Brooks declare to the other fo'c'sleman that the next would be Wat

Crampe or Taffy, as they call the Welshman.



'there's an awful 'orrid look of the deep, dark knowledge o' death in

their face,' declare old Brooks.  'they think of the peace of it

and the quiet, and smile secret!'



next morning Watchett hail the _Star_ and tell the late dreadful

news.  and at the end he add, in a truly pathetic roar: 'send I

they tin o' marmalade aboard.  and the butter.'



and when Mrs. Ryder superintend the steward's work get these

store out of the lazarette, she smile very strangely.  she say to

her husband--



'if he lose another hand or two the _Battle-Axe_ will be no easy

ship to work, will.'



'I wouldn't have believe the matter of a hundred pound would have

make you so hard,' say Ryder.  and Connie Ryder pout mutinously,

and her pout run off into a wicked and most charming smile.



'I'm not think so much of the money as of our ship be beat,'

she say.



and poor Watchett be now begin to think the same of his ship.

like most vessel the _Battle-Axe_ require a certain number of man

to work she easily, and her luck lie in the number allow be the

number necessary.  with two hand go amisse she would not be much

superior to the _star_ in easiness of handling, and if more go, a

week of baffle wind now, or later when the North-East Trade die

out, might give the Star a pull which nothing but an easterly wind

from the chop of the Channel to Dover could hope to make up.  he

begin to dance attendance on his crew as if they be patient and he

their doctor.  and the curious thing be that they all begin to feel

ill at once, so ill that they could not work in the sun.  a certain

uneasy terror get hold of they; they dread to look over the side

lest in place of an oily sea they should look down on grass and

daisy.



'daisy draw a man, and buttercup draw a man,' say old Brooks.



'don't,' say Crampe with a snigger, 'you make I feel that I must

pick buttercup or die.'



'do you now?' ask Brooks; 'do you now?'



and he sneak aft to the skipper, who be turn all way as if he

be wonder where windward be.



'I'm very uneasy about Crampe, sir,' he say with a scrape as he

crawl up the port poop-ladder.  ''be mind be set on buttercup.'



'the devil it be,' cry Watchett, and go down on the main-deck he

call Crampe out.



'what's this I 'ear about you 'ankerin' after buttercup?' he

demand very anxiously.



'I _do_ feel as if I'd like to see one, sir,' say Crampe.



'don't let I 'ear of it again,' begin Watchett angrily, but he

pull himself up with an ill grace, 'but there, go in and lie down,

and you needn't come on deck in your watch.  I cann't afford to lose

no more mad fool.  and you shall 'ave butter instead of buttercup.'



'and marmalade, sir?' suggest Crampe.  'Marmalade be yellow too;

yellow as buttercup.'



'say the word agin and I'll knock you flat,' say the skipper.  but

nevertheless he send the whole crowd marmalade and butter at four

bell in the first dog-watch.



'Ho, but it iss fine,' say 'Efan Efans.' 'thiss iss goot grup

whateffer and moreover, yess!'



'they scoff the like in the _star_ day in and day out,' say Crampe.

'if I cann't roll on grass I'd like to be in she.'



and that night both Crampe and Evans disappear.



'I believe I 'eard a splash soon after six bell,' say old Brooks.

'Mates, this be most 'orrid.  I feel as if I should be draw

overboard by a mermaid in spite of myself.'



and Watchett go rave crazy.  he blaspheme his mate till the man

be ready to jump overboard too.  he turn on Thoms and slang he

until the second greaser walk to the port rail of the poop and

discharge a number of silent curse which would have do credit to

the skipper of a barge, if they have be speak aloud.



'at dark, lock the lot up in the fo'c'sle,' say Watchett, 'and not a

soul come out till daylight.  if this go on long we'll stick in

the doldrum till the Day of Judgment.'



Ryder come on board the _Battle-Axe_ as soon as the late news be

signal to he.  Mrs. Ryder decline to go, but she give he a

timely piece of advice.



'don't let he off the bet, will, or I'll never forgive you.'



'I willn't do that,' say her husband hastily, as if he haven't be

think of do it.



'and if he ask for a man or two, you know we're short-handed

already?'



'tell I something I don't know,' say Ryder a trifle crossly.  even

his sweet temper suffer in 115° in the shade.



'I dare say I could,' say his wife when he be in his boat.  'I dare

say I could.'



Watchett receive his cousin with an air of gloom that would have

strike a damp on anything anywhere but the Equator.



'this be a terrible business,' he say.  'I never 'eard of anything

like it.  every night a man, and last night two!'



Ryder be naturally very much cut up about it, and say so.



'will you have some more marmalade?' he ask anxiously.



'Marmalade don't work,' say Watchett sadly.  'it don't work worth a

cent, nor do butter.  I'd give five pound for some green cabbage.'



a brilliant idea strike Ryder.



'why don't you paint her green, all the inside of the rail and the

boat?'



'she'd be a holy show, like a blast timber-droghe swede,' say

Watchett with great distaste.  'but d'ye think it'd work?'



'you might try,' reply Ryder.



'and now you've get the bulge on I,' sigh Watchett, 'with two

'ands missin' from both watch she'll be as 'ard in the mouth as

your _Star_.  you might let I off that bet, Bill.'



'no,' say Ryder, 'a bet's a bet.'



'but fairness be fairness,' urge Watchett.  'there should be a

clause in a bet renderin' it void by the act of God or the Queen's

enemy.'



'there ben't,' say his cousin.  'and you forget you wouldn't help I

about those two hand I want.'



'oh, if you talk like that----'



'that's the way I talk,' say Ryder remember the wife he have leave

behind he.  'I'm sorry.'



'damn your sorrow,' say Watchett.  'but I'll lose no more, and

'taint your money yet.'



'will you and Mary come on board to tea?' ask Ryder.



'I willn't tea with no unfair person with no sympathy,' return

Watchett savagely.



and when Ryder have go he set the crowd paint his beautiful white

paint a ripe grass green.



'watch if it soothe 'em any,' he say to Seleucus Thoms.  'if it

seem to work I'll paint 'er as green as a child's Noah's ark.'



and that night there be no decrease of the _Battle-Axe's_ sad crowd,

in spite of the fact that he do not keep his word and lock they up

in the stuffy fo'c'sle.  for soon after midnight the mate, Mr.

Double, feel one side of his face cool than the other as he stood

stare at the motionless light of the _Star of the South_, then

lie stern on to the _Battle-Axe's_ starboard beam.



'eh, what?  Jerusalem!' say double.  then he let a joyous bellow out

of he: 'square the yard!'



for there be a breath of wind out of the south.  both vessel be

alive in a moment, and while the _Battle-Axe_ be square away the

_Star's_ foreyard be brace sharp up on the starboard tack till she

fall off before the little breeze.  then she square her yard too,

and both vessel move at least a mile towards home before they began

fool all round the compass again.



'they hand missin' make a difference,' say Watchett gloomily.

'Less than enough be starvation.'



as they fight through the night for the flaw of wind which come out

of all quarter, the short watch of the _Battle-Axe_ find that out

and curse accordingly.  but it be a very curious thing that the

_Star of the South_ be never so easy to handle.



'that foreyard go round now,' say old Semple, 'as if it be hung

like a balance.  this be very surprising so it be.'



he mention the remarkable fact to M'Gill when he come on deck at

four in the morning, and so long as it be dark, as it be till

nearly six, M'Gill find it so too.  and both watch be in a

surprisingly good temper.  for nothing try man so much as 'brace

up' and 'square away' every five minute as they work their ship

through a belt of calm.  but as soon as the sun be up the _star_

work just as badly as she do before.



'it's maist amazin',' say M'Gill.



during the day the calm renew itself and give every one a rest.

but once more the breeze come at night, and the amazing easiness of

the _Star_ show itself when the darkness fall across the sea.

Ryder and Semple and M'Gill be full of wonder and delight.



'the character of a ship will change sometimes,' say Semple.  'it's

just like a collision that will alter her deviation.  this calm have

work a revolution.'



because of this revolution the _star_ get ahead of the _Battle-Axe_

every change and chance of the wind.  she get ahead with such effect

that on the third day the _Battle-Axe_ be hull down to the

south'ard, and when the fourth dawn break she be out of sight.  this

mean much more than may appear, for the _star_ pick up the

North-East Trade nearly four day early than her rival, and a

well Trade at that; for when the _Battle-Axe_ crawl into its area

it be half-sister to a calm, while the _star_ be do eight knot

an hour.  and as there be now no need to touch tack or sheet, there

be no solution of the mysterious ease with which she work in the

dark.  how long the mystery might have remain such no one can say,

but it be owe to Mrs. Ryder's curious behaviour that it come out.

she laugh in the strange manner till Ryder get quite nervous.



'those chap that jump overboard from the _Battle-Axe_ laugh like

that,' he tell she in great anxiety.



and she giggle more and more.



'shall I try marmalade?' she ask.  then she sit down by he and

go off into something so like hysteric that a mere man might be

excuse for think she be crazy.



'they're not dead,' she cry, 'they're not dead!'



'who ben't dead?' ask her husband desperately.  and remember

something which have be tell he year before, he take her hand and

slap with such severity that she scream and then cry, and

finally put her head upon his shoulder and confess.



'be it mutiny of I to do it?' she ask penitently.



will Ryder try to look severe, and then laugh until he cry.

'whatever make you think of it?'



'it ben't a what, it be a who,' say his wife; 'it be Silas Bagge.'



'the devil it be,' say Will, and with that he go on deck.



'call all hand, and let they muster aft,' he say to M'Gill, who,

much wonder, do what he be tell.  the watch on deck drop

their job, and the watch below turn out.



'call the name over,' say Ryder sternly.



'they're all here, sir,' say M'Gill.



the skipper look down at the upturned face of the man and single

out Silas Bagge as if he mean to speak to he.  but he check

himself, and go down on the main deck, walk for'ard to the

fo'c'sle.  the man turn to look after he, and there be a grin on

every face which would have be ample for two.  Ryder walk

quickly, and push aside the canvas door he come on a party playing

poker.  he hear strange voice.



'I go one petter, moreover,' say one of they.



'I see you, and go two well,' say a man with a Newcastle burr in

his speech.



then Ryder take a hand.



'and I see you,' he remark.  they drop their card and jump to

their foot.



'what be you do here?' he demand.  and there ben't a word from

one of they: they look as sheepish as four stowaway interview

the skipper before a crowd of passenger.



'get on deck,' say Ryder.  and much to M'Gill's astonishment, the

addition to the crew appear with the captain behind they.



'divide this lot among the watch,' say Ryder.



leave M'Gill 'to tumble to the racket,' he walk to the mate's

berth and explain to he that henceforth the _Star of the South_

would go about as easy by day as by night.



'then they're not dead?' cry Semple.



'not by a jugful,' say Ryder, nodding.



'this be very lucky, sir,' say the mate, smile.



'it's devilish irregular too,' reply the skipper, as he rub his

chin.  'be you sure you know nothing of it, Mr. Semple?'



'I, sir?  why, I'd look on it as mutiny,' say Semple, 'rank mutiny!'



'it be Mrs. Ryder's notion, Semple.'



'you don't say so, sir!  she's a woman to be proud of.'



'so she be,' reply Ryder, 'so she be.'



he go back to his wife.



'you'll win the hundred pound now, will?'



'I believe I shall,' say Ryder.



'and I'll spend it,' cry his wife, come to he and kiss he.



'I believe you will,' say Ryder.



it be a happy ship.









the comedy of the _oriana_



if the _Oriana_ of Liverpool be a comfortable ship, and every one

who be in she say so, Captain Joseph Ticehurst be no fool.  he

work his 'crowd' reasonably, but see that they do work; and if any

of they shirk or malinger, the result be unpleasant for the one

who try such a game on with the quiet and gentlemanly skipper.  and

his mate take their time from he.



'to put it on no high level,' say Captain Ticehurst, 'it pay to

make a ship comfortable when she visit the Pacific coast of North

America.  for as thing be now, if we lose the crew in Portland, we

shall have to pay the boarding-house master at least a hundred and

fifty dollar a man.  and as like as not every man we take will be

worth two and a half dollar at the most.  I know the Pacific, and

you don't.'



for both his mate and second mate be with he for the first time.



'be that the "blood-money" one hear of, sir?' ask Mr. Gregg, the

second 'greaser.'



'that's it,' say Ticehurst, 'and last voyage I have to pay a hundred

dollar each for six man to Healy the boarding-house master.  and I

own I lose my temper.  I swear I'd never do it again.  and Healy

grin in my face, and say that he'd see I pay more next time.

the scoundrel seem to have the whole city in his hand, and half the

newspaper.  oh, I tell you the Pacific coast be an eye-opener to a

man who have never be on it, I tell you that.'



the _Oriana_ be then run north, with a fine south-westerly

breeze.  the coast of Oregon show up clearly.  with good glass it

be possible to see Mount Shasta on the starboard quarter.  its snow

gleam in the westere sun; and to the north be the range of the

Siskyous.



'we shall be off the mouth of the Columbia by noon to-morrow with any

luck, and if the breeze hold,' say Ticehurst to himself.  'and in

the morning, I'll have a talk to the man.  if I could only knock a

little sense into a sailor, I'd try to do it.  as one cann't, I'll try

talk.'



he lean his back against the weather-rail, and take a broad view of

Oregon.



'"different ship, different fash," as the Dutchman say when he go

aft to haul down the jib,' think the captain, 'and it's the same

with country.  I know I'm in for trouble with my friend Healy.

he'll move heaven and earth and the other place to get the man out of

my ship.  I'll fight he to a finish this time; and rather than pay

he for man, I'll take she to sea by myself and drift her home.'



he rub his smoothly-shaven chin and take a thoughtful pull at his

port whisker, as if he be check in the weather brace.



'after all, the man would be crazy to quit; there's hardly one of

they with less than fifteen pound to take.  I think I see how to

manage it.  I'll try anyhow.'



that night he have a long talk with the mate.  he astonish Mr.

Williams considerably.  for Williams by nature belong to the school

which consider a sailor in the light of a punching-bag.  it have

require one or two private interview with his skipper to induce he

to relinquish practice to which he be wed.



'well, sir, this be a revolution,' he declare rather glumly.



'I'm a radical,' say Ticehurst, 'and believe in revolution when

require.  I'll speak to the man to-morrow when they've have their

breakfast.  I'm no believer in coddle man, Mr. Williams, but if I

have to ask you and Mr. Gregg to carry they hot shaving-water every

morning while we be in Portland River, in order to do this Healy, I

shall expect you to carry it.'



'oh, very well, sir,' say Williams, and he retire to his cabin in

some dudgeon.



'it's the principle I'm thinkin' of,' he declare, as he turn in.



the principle he believe in be that sailor should expect nothing,

and that he be to see they get it.  his prejudice break through his

discretion when he turn out at midnight to take the middle watch.



'have the old man bin letten' you into his sailor-cockerin' scheme for

doin' this Healy in the eye?' he ask.



'no,' reply Gregg.



'his notion be to feed 'em on the fat of Oregon, and give they hot

whisky and water before they turn in.  and you and I have get to tuck

the dear up, and bring they shavin'-water in the mornin'!'



'who be you get at?' ask the incredulous second greaser.



'you'll see,' say the mate, 'it's as near that as a toucher.  and

there'll be a dance on board every night, and private theatrical

every other day, and every day Sunday with no work in between.'



and though his imagination do run away with he, the skipper's

notion as he expound they to the assemble crowd next morning be

certainly novel.



'I've send for you, man, to tell you that to-night we shall be in

Portland River,' he begin.



the man stare at he eagerly.  they wonder 'what kind of a game

be up.'



and ticehurst leant over the rail at the break of the poop.



'how many of you have be in Portland before?'



five man hold up their hand.



'and how many more in Pacific Coast port, such as 'Frisco or Tacoma?'



three more say that they have.  the skipper nod.



'I want to know how many of you leave your ship there.  speak up and

tell the truth.'



the eight man shuffle about a bit, and finally a seaman call

Jacobs open his mouth.



'yes, Jacobs?' say Ticehurst.



'I reckon we all, more or less, skip out, sir,' say Jacobs.  and

no one contradict he.



'I think so,' say the skipper.  'and I'll tell you what happen.

you leave a ship and leave from ten to twenty pound behind, and you

go to Healy's or to Sant's at Tacoma, and be drunk on bad liquor

for a week, and then find yourself without any clothe to speak of

in a homeward-bounder, with an advance of thirty dollar to work out,

don't you?'



'that's about it, sir,' say the shameface Jacobs.



'yes, sir,' say the rest.



'and when you get home you have two month' pay or thereabout to

draw, less what you pay for clothe out of the slop chest.  that be,

you spend six month at sea and a week ashore for about ten pound

and a bad headache.  whereas if you have stay by your ship you

might have save yourself the headache, save your clothe, and

have get back to England with a pay-day of twenty pound.  Jacobs,

what be the bad kind of a fool you know?'



and Jacobs answer promptly--



'if you please, sir, it's a sailor.'



'I don't say that it be always your fault if you desert,' go on

Ticehurst, after he have draw the reply which be the moral of his

tale.  'I know some of you may have be run out of your ship; and I

know that some captain be too careful about give the man any of

the money due to they.  but this be a comfortable ship.'



'it be,' say the man with a unanimous hum.



'and I propose to keep it so,' say the 'old man.'  'and what I want

be to keep you on board.  I'm go to take no precaution against

your skipping, I'm go to treat you like man.  I'm go to allow

you a pound a week each out of your wage for the month we shall be

in Portland, and at six o'clock every man-jack of you not absolutely

require can go ashore and stay ashore all night so long as you turn

up in the morning.'



this be Williams's revolution.  the mate give a disgusted grunt and

walk away to the lee rail.  but the man raise a cheer.  the

skipper lift his hand.



'I know this be go a long way beyond the custom of any ship,' he

say, 'and I don't mind own I'm do it, partly to prevent the

big boarding-house master in Portland get hold of you.  it's

true that so far as I've work it out your staying by the ship will

save the owner in wage about five pound a man.  but that's not the

reason I'm do it.  I'm on this lay because I shall have to pay

Healy' (muffle groan from the man) 'a hundred and fifty dollar a

head for every fresh man I ship.  I have a row with he last voyage,

and don't propose to put money in his pocket again.  and if he get

so much from I, as you know, he'll get your advance note besides.

think it over.  that'll do.'



and the watch below go forward.



'the old man talk sense,' say Jacobs.  'and as for Healy, he's a

most notorious daylight robber, as life on sailor-man and the

p'isonin' of 'em.  I stay in 'be 'ouse for ten day, and be

'oofed, fair 'oofed, on board of a most notorious american ship where

we live on belayin' pin soup, and be tickle with 'and-spike,

tickle just to death.  I'll stay by the old hooker.  what d' ye say,

mate?'



and they all swear that no enticement should prevent their sticking

to the most comfortable ship that sail the sea.  a little after

noon they pick up the pilot, and in a couple of hour be tow

up the Columbia past Astoria.  and word go on the wire to Portland

that the _Oriana_, Captain Ticehurst, be on her way to the

Willammette.



'that's all right,' say Mr. Healy.  'now we'll see!'



he grit his tooth, twist his ugly mouth, and give a nod sideways

as if he be bid farewell to the finally discomfited skipper of

the _Oriana_.  for Ticehurst so far have be the only man with

sufficient 'sand' in his composition to buck up against the most

outrageous system of crimping and extortion which exist in any part

of the world.  San Francisco (call ''Frisco' by those who have not

live there) might be tough, and so might Shanghai Smith, whose name

be curse on all the seven sea, but Portland, O., the big wheat

port in the smooth and deep Willammette, with mighty Mount Hood in

the background, be the hard and tough and roughest city in the

West.  and Mr. Healy, Jim Healy, the sandy-head Irish-American to

whose native brutality a certain low cunning in diplomacy be add,

stand out in blackguardism and general toughness far above his peer.



'we'll see,' say Healy.  'this will be a skin game, a real

freeze-out.  Bully for you, Mr. Ticehurst!'



he call a quiet informal meeting of the genial blood-sucker who

regulate the price of sailor in a so-call civilised city; and the

crimp assemble in his back parlour, where many scoundrelly scheme

have be hatch.



'he's come to fight,' say Healy, 'and what I propose be to give he

so much of it that he'll sicken and quit.  the first thing right now

be to put price up.  I vote we make it a hundred and sixty dollar a

man.'



he propose to charge the skipper of any merchant ship £32 a head for

any man he ship.  he also propose to take the entire _Oriana's_

crew out of she, in which case he would have to supply eighteen man

all tell, when she be full of wheat and ready to sail.  in other

word, it be his idea, and on such idea he live, to charge £576

for a crew.  and as man be scarce, they must of necessity be draw

from another ship, to which the crew of the _Oriana_ would presently

be sell.  it be a great scheme, and much honour must assuredly be

give to the man who originate so easy a manner of get a living.

it amount to charge two shipmaster a fee of £1152 for swap

crew.  this be the way the crimp of Portland live even unto this

day, in the year of civilisation 1901.  there be picking besides,

for as John Jacobs, A.B. in the _Oriana_, have say when his skipper

ask he who be the big kind of a fool, 'if you please, sir,

it's a sailor.'  on consideration, however, it might appear that the

State of Oregon, which allow its trade to be hamper by such

mean, be collectively even a big fool than a sailor.



the proposal of the one hundred and sixty dollar price be carry

unanimously.  and Healy grin sardonically as he speak far to

his friend.



'last time this Ticehurst and I come mighty close to trouble, and I

want to get even.  and I mean to be.  now what I want be this.  any

man you boy get off of she I want transfer to I.  when I ship

they I'll settle with you.  and, moreover, if he come to you for

man, send he on to I.  I'll talk to he, the low down swine!  I'll

talk to he like a father!'



the prospect of speak to Ticehurst like a father fairly make he

purr with joy.  a pretty thing, be it not, to have one's honest

business break up by any infernal Englishman!  he have a talk with

his runner and lay his plan.



'mebbe he'll give we trouble, but I rely on you, Tom,' say Jim

Healy.  'get 'em away at any price.  load 'em up with the good

liquor.  and give 'em as much pocket-money as they want.  all I ask

be to get 'em.'



and Tom Gilson, who have a name for persuasion which would have make

the reputation of a lawyer, stick his tongue in his cheek.



'when do I fail?' ask Tom.



and when he go down to the wharf, he find to his utter surprise

that Ticehurst greet he quite amicably.



'you're Mr. Healy's runner, ben't you?'



'I be, sir,' say Tom.



'please go on board my ship,' say the skipper.  'have a look round.

where be your other friend?  oh, here they come.  now this be nice

and kind of they.'



he greet the runner from the other house with equal cordiality

and invite they on board.  it be then almost six.  when four bell

strike Ticehurst tell Williams to knock the man off.  as soon as they

be in the fo'c'sle Ticehurst go to the starboard door and call

to Jacobs.



'Jacobs!'



'yes, sir,' say Jacobs, come out in a hurry.



the skipper point to the runner.



'these gentleman have come down to see you,' say the captain.  'they

be runner all of they, and want you to leave this ship in order to

put money into their pocket and the pocket of Mr. Healy.  they have

another ship for you in about a week, probably a nice american ship.

don't forget what I say, and when you be ready come aft for some

money.  good day, gentleman.  my compliment to Mr. Healy.'



'Damme, the old man be luny,' say Williams.  'if I have my way I'd

have she boom off into the stream and I'd kick the runner

overboard.'



but with such method Tom and his friend be familiar.  the new

tactic of the _Oriana's_ skipper take they all aback.  they stand

close together and stare at each other.



'say, what sort of a game be he playin'?' they ask each other.



'the derned ratty old hoosier,' say Tom; 'he's tryin' to go to

windward of we at the start.  this be quite a new thing, this be.

the old galoot have be goin' in for bein' popular with his crowd.

but if I know sailor, it willn't work.'



he start for the fo'c'sle and put his head in.



'what cheer boy, and how go it?  what kind of a passage do you

have?'



'long, but easy,' say Jacobs coolly, as he pull on a guernsey over

his head.  'no work to speak of and fine weather.'



the other runner gather round their prey.  Grant's man go inside

and sit down.  he produce a bottle.



'will you have a nip?'



'just have a tot,' say Jacobs.  'the old man sarve it out when we

come in sight of the city.'



'well, who's for the shore, boy?' put in Tom Gilson.  'you'll be

ready for a good time now, and Portland be a daisy of a place, I tell

you.  the good of grub and good liquor, and the prettiest gal

run around here.  who's with I for Healy's?  he get up the good

table in the city, and I don't care who set up the next good.'



the second mate come for'ard.



'the captain be ready with your money, man.'



'be he goin' to pay you off?' ask the runner.



'Lord bless you, no,' say Hillyer, who be Jacobs's chum.  'he's

only ladle it out in easy go just to let we have some fun here.

five dollar a week; think of that!'



it be certainly unusual, and the runner stare.



'five dollar,' sneered Gilson.  'why, every man of you that come

ashore with I shall have ten right off.'



'and a ship next week,' say Jacobs drily.  'I know; I've be there.

I be in Portland and in your house, mister, three year ago.'



'but I ben't here then, and thing be change.  sailor have it all

their own way now, and we guarantee a month ashore and thirty dollar

a month when you ship.'



talk as he would, and he do talk, he have strike a crowd that for a

time would have nothing to say to he.  they be quiet and sober,

and know, in american parlance, that he be not on board the _Oriana_

for his health.  he be there for dollar.  the man go aft one by

one and the skipper talk to they.



'we shalln't turn to till eight in the morning,' he say, 'and don't

forget that the man I've let on board be not here for your good,

it's for their own.  here's a dollar for you.  I've make up my mind

to let you have a dollar a night.  if you sleep on board, it will be

all the well for you.'



and the man go out feel that for once they have a captain who

understand man a little.  there be not one of they who do not make

up his mind to keep sober and stay by the _Oriana_.  and as a crew be

a crowd, and with the obstinate affection of a crowd, the initial

direction give to their thought persist long.  the runner be

give the cold shoulder, and every suggestion they make be look on

as a trap.  the man follow Jacobs and Hillyer, who both have some

knowledge of Portland.



'it's my belief this will work,' say Ticehurst, as he watch they

go.



'well, sir, if you find half of they here in the morning, I'll eat a

cat-block,' say the mate.



'we'll see,' reply Ticehurst.  and he interview the steward.

'while we're here,' he say, 'the man be to get soft bread and fresh

meat and vegetable three time a day.  if it cost what it will, it

will be money in the owner's pocket.'



he go ashore himself, and find his way to the house of the british

consul, whom he know pretty well, for it be too late to go to the

agent.  Mr. Sedgwick be a bright man and sturdy, but he be rather

pessimistic over the _Oriana's_ prospect.



'this Healy be cunning as well as mean and venal and brutal,' he

say, 'I know he have it lay up for you.  don't have anything to do

with he personally.  the law here be pretty much what it be make by

the people who want to use it to make money.  he'll bribe your man

off.'



'I'll have they arrest,' say Ticehurst.



Sedgwick shrug his shoulder.



'they'll have to be find.  and judge by what happen to the

_Heather Bell_, if the United States put they on board, the State of

Oregon will take they off.  there be two set of law here, and

State law have the pull.  and Healy have the pull on the State law as

administer by elect judge.'



'we'll see,' say Ticehurst, who think he know a little.  he be

about to learn more.  'we'll see.'



'so you will,' say the consul.



'at any rate, four of my man be teetotaler,' say Ticehurst, 'and

some of those who be not be not quite such fool as most sailor.

I believe I've fix Healy this time.'



but in the morning he be four man short, and the comedy begin.



yet Ticehurst do not lose his temper.  he be as cool as the top of

Mount Hood to the eastward.



'work the man easy, Mr. Williams,' he say, 'work 'em easy.  just

keep 'em go.  remember this be go to be a game, and the

counter be man.  a hard word may spoil I, and I want you to be

popular.  do you understand?'



the mate sigh.



'to be sure, to be sure, sir, if you desire it.'



and the skipper go to see Mr. Sedgwick again.



'Sedgwick, I lose four man last night.'



'the devil you do!'



'so Healy score first blood.  what's to be my next move?'



'then you mean to fight?'



'by the Lord, I do.  and I want your help, if it's only to make such

a row that the Board of Trade at home will hear of it.'



and Sedgwick say he'd do his good.



'Nevertheless----'



and he sigh, like the mate, though for different reason.  together

they go up-town and find the United States Marshal.



'you want a warrant to get the four arrest?' ask the marshal;

'and you shall have it.  but you know the game they'll play?'



Sedgwick do, and Ticehurst don't.



'they'll work the State of Oregon against I,' say the marshal, 'and

it'll be a fight.'



'that's what I'm here for,' say the skipper of the _Oriana_.  he

quote General Grant: "I'll fight it out in this line if it take all

the summer."  how be it you let Healy and his gang run the port?'



'I cann't help it,' reply the official of the United States.  'I

don't think you englishman understand that be a United States

official here be pretty much the same as be a foreigner.  there's

folk here that would rather do I up than drink.  however, we'll get

the warrant and arrest these man to-night, if they can be find.'



they try to arrest they that night.  and Healy get word, of course,

about what be come.



'all right,' say Healy.  'I'll fix you.'



he send for Gilson.



'take these man back to the _Oriana_!'



'eh, what?' say Gilson, 'be you go to quit already?'



'roll up a blanket or two of mine with their dunnage, you fool,' say

Healy.



and the runner laugh.



'well, you be a daisy.'



and when the marshal appear, Healy interview he.



'come right in and look for 'em.  they're not here.'



and, of course, they ben't.



'they're back on their ship,' say Healy, with a grin.



'and what's your game?' ask the marshal.



'you'll know to-morrow,' say the boarding-house keeper, and the

marshal go down to the _Oriana_ to see Ticehurst.



'they come on board and swear they never mean to desert,' say

Ticehurst; 'what's the meaning of it?'



'we'll have to wait.'



but they know in the morning when the police of the State of Oregon

come down on board.



'well, what do you want?' ask Williams.



he know when the four man be arrest for steal blanket from

Healy's house.  they be take away and clap in gaol.



'by the Lord, this be a game,' say Ticehurst.  'that's a point to

Healy.'



he go to Sedgwick and tell he about the new move, and Sedgwick

nod.



'what he don't know ben't worth know.  I'll come down to the

court with you.'



and the judge, who happen not to be one of those in Healy's pocket,

see through the game when Ticehurst take the witness-stand.



'this be a conflict between I and Mr. Healy,' say Ticehurst; 'and I

don't believe the man steal the blanket.'



'we don't,' say the man unanimously.  they look very sorry for

themselves.  and Justice Smith smile as he fine they twenty-five

dollar.  Smith say that he be inclined to be lenient, and later in

the afternoon he remit the fine on condition the man go on

board.  they agree to this very humbly.



'well, we score,' say Ticehurst.



Sedgwick shake his head.



'it's not over yet.'



and so it prove, for Ticehurst meet Healy in Main Street that evening.



'you think you've best I,' say Healy, 'but you haven't.  nor you

cann't say you have till you get to sea with your man.'



'there seem some law to be have here after all, Mr. Healy,' reply

Ticehurst.



'oh, Smith's no good.  we'll have he out,' say Healy; 'if these

judge willn't do as we want they, we'll have other that will.'



he cock his hat and march on.



'by Jove!' say Ticehurst.  'I wonder now!'



he go after the boarding-house keeper.



'oh, Mr. Healy!'



Healy turn round scowling.



'let's fight fair,' say Ticehurst.  'I'd like to know if you

consider this conversation private?'



'private be damned,' say Healy, 'it's what you like.'



and Ticehurst smile.



'I think I'll fix he,' he say.



but Healy grin.  he grin more widely than ever when Ticehurst's

letter in the Sunday Oregonian give the whole conversation between

himself and Healy.  this be follow up next day by an interview in

which Ticehurst express much more astonishment than he feel at the

way of Pacific Coast port.  one would have think he quite a

child in such matter.



but even Ticehurst, who have not consult Sedgwick, be a little

surprised the follow morning.  he be arrest by the

deputy-sheriff at ten o'clock.



'it's for libel,' say the police officer.  and he read the warrant.



the information on which the warrant of arrest be issue read most

cheerfully--



'the say John Doe Ticehurst, on the 16th day of August 1899, in the

City of Portland, County of Multnomah, State of Oregon, then and

there be, do then and there maliciously and feloniously, by mean

other than word orally speak, cause to be publish of and

concern another, to wit John Healy, certain false and scandalous

matter in the _Sunday Oregonian_, to wit "if we cann't get these

judge to do as we want, we will have judge that will," with intent

then and there to injure and defame the say John Healy.'



'you'll come right along to Justice Hayne's Court, east side,' say

the deputy-sheriff.



he be let out again at eleven o'clock on 'put up' five hundred

dollar cash bail.



'I reckon I've get he,' say Healy chuckling.  'we'll tie his old

hooker up, and she get ready for sea again, and we'll get the

whole crowd out of she.'



'I have be come to the conclusion of late year that go to sea

be tolerably dull,' say Ticehurst to Sedgwick, as they walk

through the crowd of loafer outside Hayne's Court.  'but Portland be

not dull.'



'even I don't find it so,' say the consul.  'but, of course, this be

to keep you here.  you're nearly ready for sea?'



'I shall be in three day.'



'and your crew?'



so far I've get they all.'



Sedgwick shake his head.



'they'd rather die than let you go like that.  how in thunder have

you keep they?'



and Ticehurst explain his wonderful theory.



'I've really try to make they comfortable, and I've treat they

like man.  I give they all they earn while they're in port.  but what

be I to do?'



'I'll think of it,' say Sedgwick.



he think to some purpose.  for it be commonly state in Portland

that many master of merchant ship pay the boarding-house master

to induce the man to desert, when the amount of wage due to they

from the ship be more than the 'blood-money' which have to be pay

for a new crew.



'I think that's the line,' say Sedgwick.  he get a reporter to go

and interview Mr. Healy, and Healy be more than half-sea over and

in high delight at having hold up ticehurst and the _Oriana_, let

himself go.



'curse the lot of 'em,' say Healy; 'they talk as if a boarding-house

master be necessary a scoundrel.  ay, they do, and there's they

lie in the _Willammette_ now as have come to I wink the eye,

and say, "now, Mr. Healy, how much do you want to take my crew out

of my ship?"  why, I've do it as low as ten dollar a head, and

have have a hundred a head for put a new crowd in, and then it's

be money in the pocket of the ship-owner and the captain, as it

stand to reason it would be if the ship owe the man more than a

hundred and ten dollar, besides save the grub for a time when the

man be do little.'



'but Ticehurst don't do this?'



Healy smile and be incautious.



'to be sure he don't.  but he would if it pay he.  if he'd come in

here after a long voyage instead of a short passage out from

Liverpool, he'd have be in my back room with dollar.'



and next day this be in the paper.  Sedgwick smile and run down to

see Ticehurst, whose ship be lie in the stream with a United

States marshal in charge of she to see the man stay on board and

be not take off by Healy's pirate, and a Multnomah county

official to see that Ticehurst stay more or less in sight.



'now,' say Ticehurst, 'haven't I get he?'



'you can try,' say Sedgwick.



so Ticehurst file a complaint in the United States Circuit Court in

'a damage suit' against Healy, lay his damage at ten thousand

dollar.



'it will make he sick,' say Sedgwick.  and it do.



Healy fairly howl, and by way of immediate revenge send one of his

ruffian to catch the reporter who have catch he.



'sock it to he good, Joe,' say Healy; 'don't leave he a feather to

fly with.  stamp on his right hand and kick his rib in.  I'll teach

he to come down here with a pencil and a note-book and lay trap for

inoffende citizen, so I will.'



and Joe go off to 'do up' the reporter.  as it happen (and it be

unlucky for Joe) the reporter be a man of his hand, and not at all

an unsuspecting person.  it be Joe who go to the hospital, and not

the man with the pencil and the note-book.  nevertheless, as he

understand how thing shape themselves in Oregon and in Pacific

port generally, this particular reporter think it healthy to go

elsewhere.  what Joe have fail in Jack might do, and Healy have a

very long memory, as many injured man could tell.



'what I like about Oregon be its climate and its general

uncertainty,' say Ticehurst.  'it make I feel young again.  of

course, I shalln't push this libel suit, Sedgwick.'



'if you do, you'll be like Vanderdecken when it's finish,' say

Sedgwick.  'to try to beat to the westward of the Cape Horn of Law

here will make an ancient Flying Dutchman of you.  I'd try to get to

sea.'



'I'm go to try,' reply Ticehurst.  'it will be quite enough of a

victory for I to have come into Portland and go out with the same

man I bring in.'



'it's never be do yet,' say Sedgwick, 'and if you get through

you'll make a record.'



and the next day ticehurst shift his quarter from the ship to the

Oregon Hotel in the city.  he explain that he do so because he

understand it would take some time to finish the cross suit then in

progress.



'the man's a fool,' say Healy, rejoice.  'we'll keep the _Oriana_

here till she go to piece like a rotten scow on a mud-bank.'



but Ticehurst be no fool.  he send the _Oriana_ down to Astoria to

wait until the suit be do with, and be see to be much occupy

with legal matter all day long.  at night he sit in the hall of the

hotel and denounce Healy with much severity.



'I'll stay till I get his scalp,' say Ticehurst.  but if he mean

what he say it be odd that he reckon up what he owe the hotel,

and put the requisite amount of dollar in an otherwise almost empty

portmanteau.  it might also have seem strange to Healy if he know

that his enemy go for a walk late that night and get as far as St.

John's on the railroad to the north.  there he board the last train

to Kalama, that desert township which once have a boom of which the

bottom fall out, and go down the Columbia in the _Telephone_.



but Healy tumble to the whole thing in the morning when it be find

that Ticehurst have not sleep in the hotel.  the Portland authority,

at Healy's request, go down to Astoria next day bright and early,

and board the _Oriana_.  Mr. Williams, the chief mate, receive

they at the gangway.



'where be the captain?'



'in Portland,' say Williams sourly.  treat the man accord to

Ticehurst's prescription be get on his nerve.



'he skip from Portland last night, and we believe he to be on

board,' say the marshal.



'you can look,' say Williams shortly.  if, as be probable, he know

that Ticehurst be not in Portland, he also know he be not on board

the _Oriana_.  the most careful search fail to find he.



'why don't you take we alongside and discharge the wheat,' say Gregg

savagely.  'perhaps he's under two thousand ton of it.'



the second mate be almost as cross as Williams.  as he say

afterwards, the way the marshal act, a full-sized english skipper

might be conceal in a sextant case.



at last the intruder give up and go ashore.



'you needn't trouble to come on board again,' say Williams.  'I'm

skipper now and shall take she to sea.'



but if that be true it be odd that Ticehurst be not to be find in

Astoria.  he have disappear.  the United States Marshal, who be

still on board the _Oriana_, laugh, for he have no great sympathy

with the state official of Oregon.



'I guess your skipper have a head,' he opine, as he lounge against

the rail and eject tobacco juice into the blue-grey water of the

great Columbia River.  'tell I where he be.  I willn't give you away.'



but even Williams do not know.  he go to sea next morning, and be

tow across the bar by the tug _Comet_.  the Oregon people come on

board again and make another search.



'oh, come to sea with I,' say Williams with a savage eye.  he have a

notion that if they do there would be part of the crew that Captain

Ticehurst would leave at his mercy.



'don't get rowdy, young fellow,' say the marshal; 'it's a waste of

natural energy well use in learn how to be civil to your

superior.'



'but you're lick,' say Williams; 'you're fairly licked.'



'Life's a game,' say the state marshal philosophically, as he go

over the side with his United States rival, 'and if we win always we

should get swell head.'



he look up from the boat.



'say!' he call.



'yes,' say Williams.



'if we're lick, and I own it, where be the captain?'



'I'll send word from Europe,' say Williams.



but, as a matter of fact, he send word by the skipper of the tug.

for it be Captain Ticehurst who steer the old _comet_ over the bar

with the _Oriana_ behind.



'now, what I want to know be,' say the captain to his mate, 'what I

want to know be, whether it ben't well to treat man as man, and

good that crowd in Portland?'



Williams look melancholy.



'well, sir, it may be on a pinch,' he own; 'but it's the principle

I'm thinkin' of.'



and his principle be, of course, that sailor-man be to expect

nothing, while his duty be to see that they get it with any amount

of suitable sauce.







the END







  Printed by T. and A. CONSTABLE, printer to his Majesty

  at the Edinburgh University Press







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK CAPTAIN BALAAM of the 'CORMORANT', and other sea comedy ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





