The project Gutenberg eBook of the promotion of the admiral, and other sea comedy

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the promotion of the admiral, and other sea comedy



author: Morley Roberts



Release date: September 6, 2022 [ebook #68919]

                most recently update: October 19, 2024



language: English



original publication: United States: L. C. Page & Company, 1902



credit: Al Haines





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the promotion of the ADMIRAL, and other sea comedy ***



[illustration: Cover art]







[frontispiece: ADMIRAL SIR RICHARD DUNNE]







  the Promotion of

  the Admiral



  and Other Sea Comedies





  by



  Morley Roberts



  Author of

  "the Colossus," "the fugitive," etc.





  _illustrate_







  _BOSTON_ * L. C. PAGE

  & COMPANY * _publisher_









  _copyright, 1902, 1903_

  by the CURTIS PUBLISHING COMPANY



  _copyright, 1903_

  by L. C. PAGE & COMPANY

  (INCORPORATED)





  _all right reserve_





  _Third impression_





  publish August, 1903









  the WORKS of

  MORLEY ROBERTS



  the Idlers

  Lady Penelope

  Rachel Marr

  the Promotion of the Admiral





  L. C. PAGE COMPANY

  New England Building

  Boston, Mass.









content





I. the Promotion of the Admiral



II. the Settlement with Shanghai Smith



III. the Policy of the _potluck_



IV. the Crew of the _Kamma Funder_



V. the Rehabilitation of the _Vigia_



VI. three in a Game



VII. the Man from Abo



VIII. the Scuttling of the _Pandora_









the promotion of the ADMIRAL.



Mr. Smith, who run a sailor' boarding-house in that part of San

Francisco know as the Barbary Coast, be absolutely _sui generis_.

if any drunken scallawag of a scholar, who have drift ashore on his

boarding-house mud-flat, have venture in a moment of alcoholic

reminiscence to say so in the classic tongue, Shanghai Smith would

have "lay he out cold" with anything handy, from a stone-ware

match-box to an empty bottle.  but if that same son of culture have

use his mother tongue, as alter for popular use in the West, and

have murmur: "Jerusalem but Mr. Smith's the daisy of all!" Smith

would have throw out his chest and blow through his tooth a windy

oath and guess he be just so.



"say it and mean it, that's I," say Smith.  "I'm all right.  but

call I hog and I be hog; don't you forget it!"



apparently all the world call he "hog."  for that he be no well

than one, whether he walk, or eat, or drank, or sleep, be obvious

to any sailor with an open eye.  but he be hard and rough and tough,

and have the bull-head courage of a mad steer combine with the

wicked cunning of a monkey.



"don't never play upon I," he say often.  "for 'get even' be my

motter.  there ben't many walkin' this earth that can say they best

I, not from the time I leave Bristol in the old dart till now, when

I'm know the wide world over."



so far as ship and sailorman be concern he certainly speak the

truth.  he be talk of with curse in the Pacific from the

Prybiloffs to the Horn, from San Francisco to Zanzibar.  it be long

odd at any give time in any longitude that some seaman be engage

in blaspheme Shanghai Smith for send he on board drunk and

without a chest, and with nothing well to propitiate his new

shipmate with than a bottle of vinegar and water that look like

rum till it be taste.  every breeze that blow, trade wind or

monsoon, have hear of his iniquity.  he get the good of every one.



"all but one," say Smith in a moment of weakness, when a dozen man,

who owe so much money that they crawl to he as a Chinaman do to

a joss, be hang upon his lips--"all but one."



"oh, we don't take that in," say one of the most indebted; "we can

'ardly believe that, Mr. Smith."



sometimes this unsubtle flattery would have end in the flatterer

be throw out.  but Smith be now gently reminiscent.



"yes, I be do brown and never get the good of one swine," say the

boarding-house keeper.  "I don't ask you to believe it, for I own it

don't sound likely, I be what I be.  but there be one swab as

give I a hidin', and he give it I good, so he do."



he look they over malignantly.



"I kin lick any of you here with one hand," he swear, "but the man as

best I could have take on three of you with both hand.  and I

own I be take aback considerable when I run against he on the pier

at Sandridge when I be in Australia fifteen year ago.  he be a

naval officer, captain of the _Warrior_, and dress up to kill,

though he have a face like a figure-head cut out of mahog'ny with a

broad-axe.  and I be feelin' good and in need of a scrap.  so when

he bump agin I, I shove he over--prompt, I shove he.  down he

go, and the girl that know'd I laugh.  and two policeman come

along quick.  I don't care much, but this naval josser pick himself

up and go to 'em.  would you believe it, but when he'd speak a bit

I seed he donate they about a dollar each and they walk off round

a heap of dunnage on the wharf, and the captain button up his coat

and come for I.  I never see the like of it.  he come up dancin'

and smilin', and he kind of give I half a bow, polite as you like,

and inside of ten second I know I'd strike a cyclone, right in the

spot where they breed.  I fight good--(you know me)--and I get in

half a dozen on his face.  but I never faze he none, and he

wouldn't bruise mor'n hittin' a boiler.  and every time he get back

on I I feel as if I'd be kick.  he scar I something cruel.

I could see it by the blood on his hand.  Twarn't his, by a long

sight, for his fist be make of teak, I should say.  and in the end,

when I seem to see a ship's company of naval officer around I,

one of they hit I under the ear and lift I up.  and another hit

I whilst I be in the air, and a third land I as I fall.  and

that be the end of it, so far's I remember.  when I come to, which

be next day in a kind of sailor' hospital, I reach up for a card

over my head, and I read 'concussion of the brain' on it.  what's

more, I believe it.  if the card have let on that I'd be run over

by a traction engine and pick up dead, I'd have believe it.  and

when I reely come to my sense, a med'cal student say as Captain

Richard Dunn, of the _Warrior_, have bin to inquire when the funeral

be, so's he could send a wreath.  they say he be the topside

fighter in the hull British Navy.  and I'm here to say he be."



he breathe fierce defiance and invite any man alive to tell he he

be lie.



"and you never get even?" ask the bar-tender, see that no one

take up the challenge.



"never set eye on he from that day to this," say his boss

regretfully.



"and if you do?"



Smith pause, take a drink.



"so help I, I'd Shanghai he if he be King of England!"



and one of the crowd, who have put down the _San Francisco Chronicle_

in order to hear this yarn, pick it up again.



"S'elp I," he say, in a breathless excitement, "'ere's a bally

cohincidence.  'Ere's a telegram from 'Squimault, say as how the

flagship _Triumphant_, Hadmiral Sir Richard Dunn, K.C.B., be comin'

down to San Francisco!"



"Holy Moses, let's look!" say Shanghai Smith.



he read, and a heavenly smile overspread his hard countenance.  he

almost look good, such joy be his.



"Tom," he say to the bar-tender, "set up the drink for the crowd.

this be my man, for sure.  and he an admiral, too!  Holy sailor,

ben't this luck?"



he go out into the street and walk to and fro rub his hand,

while the man inside take their drink, and look through the

uncleaned window at the boss.



"Holy Mackinaw," say Billy, who have drift West from Michigan, "I

reckon never to hev see Mr. Smith so pleased since he ship a

crowd in the _harvester_, and get 'em away that night and ship 'em

in the _Silas K. Jones_."



"he's strike a streak o' luck in his mind," say one of the seaman;

"and it's this 'ere hadmiral.  now mark I, mate, I wouldn't be that

'ere hadmiral for the worth of California.  Mr. Sir Blooming

Hadmiral, K.C.B., et setterer, be go to 'ave a time."



he shake his head over the melancholy fate of a british admiral.



"rot!" say one of the young man; "'tain't possible to do nothin'

to the like of an admiral.  now, if 'twas a lieutenant or even a

captain, I'm not sayin' as Mr. Smith mightn't do somethin'.  but an

admiral----"



"you mark I," say the old man, "I'd rather be as green as grass

and ship as an able-bodied seaman with Billy Yates of the _wanderer_,

than be in that hadmiral's shoe.  what do you say, Tom?"



Tom fill himself up a drink and consider.



"Wa'al," he answer after a long pause, "it's my belief that it

willn't necessary be _all_ pie to be an admiral if the boss be half the

man he use to be.  for you see 'tis quite evident he have a special

kind of respect for this admiral, and when Mr. Smith have be do by

any one that he respect, he don't ever forget.  why, you know

yourself that if one of you be to do he, he'd forgive you right

off after he'd kick the stuffing out of you."



this clear proof that Mr. Smith do not respect they and be kind be

receive without a murmur.  and as the boss do not return, the tide

of conversation drift in the narrow more personal channel of the

marvel that have happen in the "last ship."  and in the meantime

H.M.S. _Triumphant_, know familiarly on the Pacific Coast station as

"the _Nonsuch_, two deck and no bottom," be bring Rear-Admiral

Sir Richard Dunn, K.C.B., to his fate in San Francisco.



"be there ever such luck--be there ever such luck?" murmur Mr.

Shanghai Smith.  "to think of he turnin' up, all of his own accord,

on my partic'lar stampin' ground!  and I'll lay odd he's clean

forget I.  I'll brighten up his memr'y with sand and canvas and

souji-mouji, so I will!  Holy sailor, be there ever such luck?"



the morning of the following day H.M.S. _Triumphant_ lie at her

anchor off Saucelito in San Francisco Bay, and be glad to be there.

for this be in the time when the whole british fleet be not

absolutely accord to Cocker.  she leak not a little and she

roll a great deal, and she would not mind her helm except upon

those occasion when the officer in charge of the deck lay his money

and his reputation on she go to starboard when, accord to all

rule, she should have alter her course to port.  but though she

be a wet ship with a playful habit of try to scoop the Pacific

Ocean dry, and though her trick would have break the heart of the

Chief Naval Constructor have he see she at they, she be the flagship

in spite of her conduct, because at that time she be half the whole

Pacific Squadron.  the other half be lie outside Esquimault Dry

Dock wait for it to be finish.  and when the _Chronicle_ say

that "Dicky Dunn" be the admiral, it have not lie.  if any of that

paper's reporter have know "Dicky" as his man know he, he would

have spread himself in a column on the admiral's character and

personal appearance.



"he's the dead-spit of a boson's mate, to be sure," say the crew of

the _triumphant_ when they receive he at Esquimault.  "an 'ard nut

he look!"



and a "hard nut" he certainly be.  though he stand five foot nine in

height, he look two inch less, for he be as broad as a door and

as sturdy as the fore-bitt.  his complexion be the colour of the

sun when it set in a fog for fine weather: the skin on his hand

shine and be as scaly as a lizard's hide.  his tooth be white and

his eye pierce.  he could roar like a fog-horn, and sing, as the

crew say, "like any hangel."  there ben't the match of "Dicky" on

any of the sea the wide world over.  the only trouble be that he

look so much like the traditional sailor and buccaneer that no one

could believe he be anything high than a warrant officer at the

most when he have none of his official gear about he.



though the admiral do not know it, one of the very first to greet

he when he set his foot on dry land at the bottom of Market Street

be the man he have lick so thoroughly fifteen year before in

Melbourne.



"oh, it's the same," say Smith to his chief runner, who be about

the "hard case" in California.  "he ben't change none.  just so

old he be when he set about I.  why, the galoot might be immortal.

mark he, now; will you know he anywhere?"



"it don't pay I ever to forget," reply the runner.  he have to

remember the man who owe he grudge.



"then don't forget this one," say Smith.  "do you find I a

considerate boss?"



"oh, well----" say the runner ungraciously.



"you've get to do a job for I, Billy."



"and what?"



"I'm goin' to have this hyer admiral ship before the stick on the

tough ship that's about ready to go to sea," reply Smith.



Billy flinch.



"Sir, it's the penitentiary!"



"I don't care if it's lynchin'," say Smith.  "help--or get.  I'm

bossin' this job.  which be it?"



and Billy, see that he be to play second fiddle, conclude to

help.



"and," he say to himself, "if we get nail I'll split.  call

himself a 'considerate boss.'  well, Shanghai Smith have a gall!"



"which do you reckon be the bad ship inside the Gate now?" ask

Smith, after he have savour his cunning revenge for a few minute.



"the _harvester_ ben't due for a month, sir."



Smith look melancholy.



"no, she ben't, that's a fact.  it's a solid pity.  Sant would have

suit this Dunn first class."  he be the most notorious blackguard

of a shipmaster yet unhung, and the fact that Smith and he be

bitter enemy never blind Shanghai to the surpass merit of his

brutality.



"there's the _Cyrus G. Hake_."



Smith shake his head contemptuously.



"D'ye think I want to board this admiral at the Palace Hotel?  why,

Johnson haven't hurt a man serious for two trip."



"oh, well, I think as he'd sure break out soon," say Bill; "but

there's the President.  they do say that her new mate be a holy

terror."



"I willn't go on hearsay," say Smith decidedly.  "I want a good man

you and I know--one that'll handle this Dicky Dunn from the start.

now, what's in the harbour with officer that can lick I?"



"well, I always allow (as you know, Mr. Smith) that Simpson of the

_California_ be your match."



Smith's face soften.



"well, mebbe he be."



at any other time he would never have admit it.



"and the _California_ will sail in three day."



"Righto," say Smith.  "Simpson be a good tough man and so be old

Blaker.  Bill, the _California_ will do.  but it's an almighty pity

the _harvester_ ben't here.  I never know a more unlucky thing.  but

we must put up with the next good."



"but how'll you corral the admiral, sir?" ask Bill.



"you leave that to I," reply his boss.  "I've get a very fruitful

notion as will fetch he if he's half the man he be."



next evening Smith find occasion to run across a couple of the

_Triumphant's_ crew, and he get they to come into his house for a

drink.



"be these galoot to be dose and put away?" ask the bar-tender.



"certainly not," say Smith.  "fill 'em up with good honest liquor at

my expense."



the bar-tender hardly know where good honest liquor be to be find

in that house, but he give the two man-o'-war's man the slow

poison he have, and they be soon merry.



"be the admiral as dead keen on fightin' with his fist as he be?"

ask Smith.



"rather," say the first man.



"oh no, he's tired," say the second.  "'e allow 'e cann't find no

one to lick 'Im.  'E never could."



"oh, that's his complaint, be it?" say Smith.  "and be he as good as

he be?"



"I heerd he tell the first luff on'y the other day as 'e reckon to

be a well man now than he be twenty year ago.  and I believe

'Im.  'Ard?  oh my!  I do believe if 'e run agin a lamp-post he'd

fight through it."



it be enough for Smith to know that the admiral be still keen on

fighting.  to draw a man like that would not be so difficult.  when

he have turn the two naval seaman into the street, he call for the

runner.



"have you find out what I tell you?"



"yes," reply Bill.  "he mostly come down and go off at eleven."



"be he alone?"



"mostly he have a young chap with he.  I reckon they call he the

flag-lieutenant: a kind of young partner he seem to be.  but that's

the only one so far.  and the _California_ sail day after

ter-morrer, bright and early."



"couldn't be well," say Smith.  "after waitin' all these year I

cann't afford to lose no time.  Thishyer racket come off to-night.

look out, Mr. Bully Admiral!  I'm on your track."



and the trouble do begin that night.



Mr. 'say-it-and-mean-it' Smith lay for Admiral Sir Richard Dunn,

K.C.B., etc., etc., from ten o'clock till half-past eleven, and he

be the only man in the crowd that do not hope the victim would come

down with too many friend to be tackle.



"it's a penitentiary job, so it be," say Bill.  and yet when the

time arrive his natural instinct get the well of he.



the admiral come at last: it be about a quarter to twelve, and the

whole water-front be remarkably quiet.  the two policeman at the

entrance to the ferry have by some good luck, or well management,

find it advisable to take a drink at Johnson's, just opposite.  and

the admiral be only accompany by his flag-lieutenant.



"that's he," say Smith.  "I'd know the beggar anywhere.  now keep

together and sing!"



he break into "down on the Suwannee River," and advance with Bill

and Bill's two mate right across the admiral's path.  they pretend

to be drunk, and as far as three be concern, there be not so

much pretence about it after all.  but Smith have no intention of

be the first to run athwart the admiral's hawse.  when he come

close enough, he shove the young man right into his arm.  the

admiral jump back, and land that unfortunate individual a

round-arm blow that nearly unship his jaw.  the next moment every

one be on the ground, for Bill sandbag the admiral just as he be

knock down by the lieutenant.  as Sir Richard fall, he reach out

and catch Smith by the ankle.  the boarding-house master get the

lieutenant by the coat and bring he down too.  and as luck would

have it, the youngster's head hit the admiral's with such a crack

that both lie unconscious.



"do we want the young 'un too?" ask Bill when he rise to his foot,

swinge his sand-bag savagely.  and Smith for once lose his head.



"leave the swine, and puckarow the admiral," he say.  and indeed it

be all they could do to carry Sir Richard without exciting any more

attention than four semi-intoxicated man would as they take home a

mate who be quite incapacitate.



but they do get he home to the house in the Barbary Coast.  when he

show sign of come to, he be promptly dose and his clothe be

take off he.  as he sleep the sleep of the drug, they put on a

complete suit of rough serge toggery and he become "Tom Deane, A.B."



"they do say that he be the rough, tough, hard nut on

earth," say Bill; "so we'll sec what like he shape in the

_California_.  I dessay he's one of that lot that let on how

sailorman have an easy time.  it's my notion the _California_ will

cure he of that."



by four o'clock in the morning, Tom Deane, who be, as his new

shipmate allow, a hard-look man who could, and would, pull his

weight, lie fast asleep in a forward bunk of the _California's_

foc'sle as she be be tow through the Golden Gate.  and his

flag-lieutenant be inquire in hospital what have become of the

admiral, and nobody could tell he more than he himself know.  so

much he tell the reporter of the _Chronicle_ and the _Morning call_,

and flaring headline announce the disappearance of a british

admiral, and the wire and cable fairly hum to England and the

world generally.  at the same time the San Francisco police lay

every waterfront rat and tough by the heel on the chance that

something might be get out of one of they.



"what do I tell you?" ask Bill in great alarm, as he see several

intimate friend of his be escort to gaol.



"be you weakenin' on it?" say Smith savagely.  "if I think you

be, I'd murder you.  give I away, and when I get out, I'll chase

you three time round the world and knife you, my son."



and though Bill be so much of a "terror," he could not face Smith's

eye.



"well, I ben't in it, anyhow," he swear.



but certainly "Tom Deane, A.B." be in it, and be have a holy time.



when the admiral wake, which he do after half an hour's shaking

administer in turn by three of the _California's_ crew, who be

anxious to know where he have stow his bottle of rum, he be still

confuse with the "dope" give he ashore.  so he lie pretty still

and say:



"send Mr. Selwyn to I."



but Selwyn be his flag-lieutenant, and be just then the centre of

interest to many reporter.



"send hell; rouse out, old son, and turn to," say one of his new

mate.  and the admiral rise and rest on his elbow.



"where be I?"



"on board the _California_, to be sure."



"I'm dream," say the admiral, "that's what it be.  to be sure,

I'm dream."



there be something in his accent as he make this statement that

rouse curiosity in the other.



"no, you ain't--not much," say the first man who have speak; "and

even if you be, I guess Simpson will wake you.  rouse up before he

come along again.  he be in here an hour back inquire for the

trumpet of the Day of Judgment to rouse you.  come along, Deane!  now

then!"



"my name's Dunn," say the admiral, with contract brow.



"devil doubt it," say his friend; "and who do you?  be it

Shanghai Smith?"



the admiral sit up suddenly, and by so do bring his head into

violent contact with the deck above he.  this wake he thoroughly,

just in time to receive Mr. Simpson, mate of the _California_, who

come in like a cyclone to inquire after his health.



"do you ship as a dead man?" ask Mr. Simpson, "for if you do,

I'll undeceive you."



and with that he yank the admiral from his bunk, and drag he by

the collar out upon the deck at a run.  Mr. Simpson be "bucko" to

his finger-tip, and have never be lick upon the high sea.  but

for that matter Vice-Admiral Sir Richard Dunn, K.C.B., have never

haul down his flag either to any man.  it surprise he, as it

would have surprise any of his crew, to find that he take this

handle almost meekly.  but then no one know what he would do if

the sky fall; and as far as the admiral be concern, the entire

world be an absurd and ridiculous nightmare.  he rise at the end of

his undignified progress and stare at the mate.



"who--who be you?" he say.



Mr. Simpson gasp.



"who be I--oh, who be I?  well, I'll oblige you by statin' once for

all that I'm mate of this ship, and you're my dog."



but the "dog" shake his head.



"nothing of the sort," he say, as he stagger with the remain of

the opiate.  "I'm a british admiral, and my name's Sir Richard Dunn.

where's my ship?"



any ordinary kind of back-answer or insubordination receive only one

kind of treatment on board the _California_, and when a man have be

beat to a jelly, he rarely recover enough spirit to inquire why

he have be hammer.  but this be a new departure in back-talk.



"oh, you're an admiral--an admiral, heh?" say Simpson.



"of course," say Sir Richard, and a sudden gust of rage blow the

last opium out of he.  "why, damn it, sir, what the devil do you

mean by lay your filthy paw on I?  where's your captain, sir?

by all that's holy, I'll smash you if you so much as look at I

again."



now it be a remarkable fact that the utterly and entirely unexpected

will sometimes shake the courage of the stout heart.  it be

possible that a tiger would itself turn tail if a lamb rush at he

with open mouth.  and though Mr. Simpson would have tackle a

prize-fighter, know he be a prize-fighter, the fact that one of

the kind of man whom he be accustomed to wipe his boot on now

turn upon he with entirely strange language and a still strange

air of authority, for a moment daunt he utterly.  he stand still

and gasp, while the admiral strode aft and go up the poop ladder.

he be meet there by the captain, who have be the terror of the sea

as a mate.  a narrow escape of a conviction for murder have partially

reform he.  he have also become religious, and usually go below

when Simpson or the second "greaser" be hammer any one into

oblivion and obedience.



"what be this?" ask Captain Blaker mildly, yet with a savage eye.

"Mr. Simpson, what do you mean by allow your authority (and mine

delegate to you) to be disregard?"



"Sir," say Mr. Simpson, and then the admiral turn on he.



"hold your infernal tongue, sir," he roar.  "and, sir, if you be

the master of this vessel, as I suppose, I require you to put about

for San Francisco.  I be a british admiral, sir; my name be Sir

Richard Dunn."



"oh, you're an admiral and you 'require'?" say Blaker.  "Wa'al, I do

admire!  you look like an admiral: the water-front be full of such.

take that, sir."



and the resurgent old Adam in Blaker strike the admiral with such

unexpected force that Dunn go heel over head off the poop and

land on Simpson.  the mate improve the opportunity by kick he

violently in the rib.  when he be tired, he speak to the admiral

again.



"now, you lunatic, take this here ball of twine and go and overhaul

the gear on the main.  and if you open your mouth to say another word

I'll murder you."



and though he could not believe he be do it, Sir Richard Dunn

crawl aloft, and do what he be tell.  he be stun by his fall

and the hammering he have receive, but that be nothing to the utter

and complete change of air that he experience.  as he overhaul the

gear he wonder if he be an admiral at all.  if he be, how come he

on the maintopgallant-yard of a merchant ship?  if he ben't, why be

he surprise at be there?  he try to recall the last day of his

life as an admiral, and be dimly conscious of a late evening

somewhere in San Francisco at which he have certainly take his share

of liquor.  a vague sense of having be in a row oppress he, but

he could recall nothing till he have be yank out of his bunk by

that truculent devil of a mate then patrol the poop.



"I--I must be mad," say the admiral.



"now then, look alive there, you dead crawl cat," say Mr.

Simpson, "or I'll come up and boot you off the yard.  do you hear I?"



"yes, sir," say the admiral quickly, and as he put a new mousing on

the clip-hook of the mizzen-topmast-staysail-tripping-line block, he

murmur: "I suppose I never be an admiral after all.  I don't seem

to know what I be."  and the hard nut among the admiral of the

Active list wipe away a tear with the sleeve of his coat as he

listen to the sacred Commination Service with all its blessing,

intone in a down-east twang by the eminent Mr. Simpson.



"he's crazy," say Simpson to the second greaser.  "say he's an

admiral.  I've have the Apostle Peter on board, and a cook who say he

be St. Paul, but this be the first time I've run against an admiral

before the mast."



"do he look like it, sir?" ask Wiggins, laugh.



"he look the tough case you ever set eye on," say Simpson.

"but you'd have smile to see the way the old man slug he off the

poop.  and yet there's something about he I don't tumble to.  I

guess that's where his madness lie.  guess I'll cure he or kill he

by the time we get off Sandy Hook.--Now then, you admiral, come down

here and start up the fore rigging, and do it quick, or I'll know the

reason why."



and the Knight Commander of the Bath come down as he be bid, and

having cast a perplexed eye over Simpson and Wiggins, who snigger

at he with amused and savage contempt, he go forward in a hurry.



"this be a nightmare," he say; "I'm dream.  Damme, perhaps I'm

dead!"



when he have overhaul the gear at the fore--and be a real seaman,

he do it well--wiggin call he down to work on deck, and he find

himself among his new mate.  by now they be all aware that he

believe he be an admiral, and that he have speak to Simpson in a

way that no man have ever do.  that be so much to his credit, but

since he be mad he be a fit object of jeer.  they jeer he

accordingly, and when they be at breakfast the trouble begin.



"say, be you an admiral?" ask Knight, the big tough on board

except Simpson and Wiggins.



and the admiral do not answer.  he look at Knight with a gloomy,

introspective eye.



"mind your own business," he say, when the question be repeat.



and Knight hove a full pannikin of tea at he.  this compliment be

receive very quietly, and the admiral rise and go on deck.



"take water at once," say Knight; "he ben't get the pluck of a

mouse."



but the admiral go aft and interview Mr. Simpson.



"may I have the honour of speak to you, sir?" he say, and Simpson

gasp a little, but say he might have that honour.



"well, sir," say Sir Richard Dunn, "I don't know how I get here, but

here I be, and I'm willing to waive the question of my be a

british admiral, as I cann't prove it."



"that's right," say Simpson.  "ah, I'll have you sane enough

by-and-by, my man."



the admiral nod.



"but I wish to have your permission to knock the head off a man

call Knight for'ard.  it be always my custom, sir, to allow fight

on board my own ship when I consider they necessary.  but I always

insist on my permission be ask.  have I your, sir?"



Simpson look the admiral up and down.



"your ship, eh?  you're still crazy, I'm afraid.  but Knight can kill

you, my man."



"I'm willing to let he try, sir," say the admiral.  "he hove a

pannikin of tea over I just now, and I think a thrashing would do

he good and conduce to the peace and order of the foc'sle."



"oh, you think so," say Simpson.  "very well, you have my permission

to introduce peace there."



"I thank you, sir," say the admiral.



he touch his hat and go forward.  he put his head inside the

foc'sle and address Knight:



"come outside, you bully, and let I knock your head off.  Mr.

Simpson have be kind enough to overlook the breach of discipline

involve."



and Knight, nothing loth, come out on deck, while Simpson and Wiggins

stand a little way off to enjoy the battle.



"I'd like to back the admiral," say Wiggins.



"I'll have a level five dollar on Knight," say Simpson, who

remember that he have, on one occasion, find Knight extremely

difficult to reduce to pulp.



"do with you," say Wiggins.



and in five minute the second mate be rich by five dollar, as

his mate carry Knight into the foc'sle.



"I don't know when I enjoy myself more," say Simpson, with a

sigh--"even if I do lose money on it.  while it last it be real

good.  do you see that most be-ewtiful upper cut?  and the

right-handed cross counter that finish it be jest superb.  but

I'll hev to speak to the victor, so I will."



and he address the admiral in suitable language.



"don't you think, because you've lick he, that you can fly any

flag when I'm around.  you do it neat and complete, and I overlook

it, but half a look and the fust letter of a word of soss and I'll

massacre you myself.  do you savvy?"



and the admiral say:



"yes, sir."



he touch his cap and go forward to the foc'sle to enter into his

kingdom.  for Knight have be "topside joss" there for three voyage,

be the only man who have ever succeed in get even one pay-day

out of the _California_.  the principle on which she be run be to

make thing so hot for her crew that they skip out at New York

instead of return to San Francisco, and the fresh crew ship in

New York do the same when they get inside the Golden Gate.



"I understand," say the admiral, as he stand in the middle of the

foc'sle, "that the gentleman I've just have the pleasure of knock

into the middle of next week be the head bully here.  now I want it

thoroughly understand in future that if any bullying be to be do,

I'm go to do it."



all the once obedient slave of the depose Knight hasten to make

their peace with the new power.  they fairly crawl to the admiral.



"you kin fight," say one.



"I know it jest so soon as you open yer mouth," say another.  "the

tone of yer voice argue you could."



"it's my belief that he could knock the stuffin' out o' Mr. Simpson,"

say the third.



"'twould be the good kind of fun," say another admirer of the power

that be, "for Blaker would kick Simpson in here, and give the admiral

his job right off.  he's get religion, have Blaker, but he be an old

packet rat himself, and real 'bucko' he be, and believe in the good

man bein' aft."



and though the admiral say nothing to this, he remember it, and

take occasion to inquire into its truth.  he find that what he know

of the sea and its custom be by no mean perfect.  he learn

something every day, and not least from Knight, who prove by no

mean a bad sort of man when he have once meet his match.



"be it true," ask the admiral, "what they say about Captain Blaker

give any one the mate's job if he can thrash he?"



"it use to be the custom in the Western Ocean," say Knight, "and

Blaker be bring up there.  he's a real sport, for all his bein'

sort of religious.  yes, I'll bet it's true."  he turn to the

admiral suddenly.  "say, you ben't thinkin' of takin' Simpson on,

be you?"



"if what's you say's true, I be," say the admiral.  "it don't suit

I be here."



"say now, partner," put in Knight, "what's this guff about your being

an admiral?  what put it into your head?"



and Sir Richard Dunn laugh.  as he begin to feel his foot, and find

that he be as good a man in new surrounding as in the old one, he

recover his courage and his command of himself.



"after all, this will be the deuce of a joke when it's over," he

think, "and I don't see why I shouldn't get a discharge out of she

as mate.  talk about advertisement!"



he know how much it mean.



"look here, Knight," he say aloud, "I be an admiral.  I cann't prove

it, but my ship be the _triumphant_.  I don't want to force it down

your throat, but if you'd say you believe it, I should be oblige to

you."



Knight put out his hand.



"I believe it, sonny," he say, "for I own freely that there's

suthin' about you different from we; a way of talk, and a look in the

eye that ben't formiliar in no foc'sle as I ever sail in.  and if

you be lyin', how come you to lie so ready, bein' so drunk when

Simpson haul you out o' yer bunk?  no, I believe you're speakin'

the trewth."



and Sir Richard Dunn, K.C.B., shake hand with Charles Knight, A.B.



"I willn't forget this," he say huskily.  he feel like Mahomet with

his first disciple.  "and now, in confidence," say the admiral, "I

tell you I mean to have Simpson's job by the time we're off the Horn."



"good for you," cry Knight.  "oh, he kick I somethin' cruel the

time he and I have a turn-up.  give it he, old man.  and here's a

tip for you.  if you get he down, keep he down.  don't forget he

kick you, too."



"I don't forget," say Sir Richard--"I don't forget, by any mean."



yet he do his duty like a man.  though many thing be strange to

he, he tumble to they rapidly.  one of his fad have be do

ornamental work even when he be an admiral, and he put fresh

"point" on the poop ladder rail for Blaker in a way that bring

every one to look at it.  there be no one on board who could come

within sight of he at any fancy work, and this so please Simpson

that the admiral never have a cross word till they be south of the

Horn.  then by chance the mate and the captain have a few word which

end in Simpson get much the bad of the talk.  as luck would

have it, the admiral be the handy to vent his spite on, and

Simpson catch he a smack on the side of his head that make he see

star.



"don't stand listenin' there to what don't concern you, you damn

lazy hound," he say.  and when the admiral pick himself off the

deck, Simpson make a rush for he.  the admiral dodge he and shoot

up the poop ladder.  he take off his cap to the captain, while

Simpson foam on the main-deck and call he in vain.  at any other

time Blaker would have go for the seaman who dare to escape a

thrashing for the moment by desecrate the poop, but now he be

willing to annoy Simpson.



"well, what do you want?" he roar.



the admiral make a really elegant bow.



"well, sir, I want to know whether Western Ocean custom go here.

I've be tell that if I can thrash your mate, I shall have his job.

they say forward that that's your rule, and if so, sir, I should like

your permission to send Mr. Simpson forward and take his place."



there be something so open and ingenuous in the admiral that Captain

Blaker, for the first time on record, burst into a shout of laughter.

he go to the break of the poop and address the mate.



"do you hear, Mr. Simpson?" he inquire genially.



"send he down, sir," say Simpson.



"be you sure you can pound he?"



Simpson grit his tooth and foam at the mouth.



"kick he off the poop, sir."



the admiral speak anxiously.



"I'm a first-class navigator, sir.  be it a bargain?"



and Blaker, who have never like Simpson, laugh till he cry.



"be you willing to stake everything on your fightin' ability, Mr.

Simpson?"



and when Simpson say "aye" through his tooth, the admiral jump

down on the main-deck.



now, accord to all precedent, the fight should have be long and

arduous, with vary fortune.  but the admiral never regard

precedent, and inside of ten second Mr. Simpson be lie totally

insensible under the spare topmast.  to encounter the admiral's right

be to escape death by a hair's-breadth, and it take Charles Simpson,

Able Seaman (_vice_ Mr. Simpson, Chief Officer), two hour and a

quarter to come to.



"and I thot he could fight," say the disgusted skipper.  "come right

up, Mr. What's-your-name; you're the man for I.  there ben't no

reason for you to trouble about my second mate, for Simpson could lay

he out easy.  all I ask of you be to work the whole crowd up good.

and I don't care if you be an admiral, you be the right sort all

the same.  I guess that Simpson must have reckon he strike a

cyclone."



and Blaker rub his hand.  like Simpson at the fight between the

admiral and Knight, he do not know when he have enjoy himself more.

he improve the occasion by go below and get far too much to

drink, as be his custom.  and the promote admiral take charge of

the deck.



"ability tell anywhere," say Sir Richard Dunn.  "I don't rise in

the service for nothing.  ship I where you like, and I'll come to

the top.  if I don't take this hooker into New York as captain and

master, I'll die in the attempt."



he have quite come to himself and be begin to enjoy himself.  his

natural and acquire authority blossom wonderfully when he take on

the new job, and as Blaker never swear, the admiral's gift of

language be a great vicarious satisfaction to he.  wiggin accept

the situation without a murmur.  even Simpson himself bear no malice

when his supplanter not only show none, but after knock the

boson's head against a bollard, give his place to the former mate.

though he keep the man work and get the last ounce out of they,

none of they be down on he.



"I tell you he's an admiral, sure," they say.



"he's get all the way of one, I own," say Bill, an old man-o'-war's

man.  "I speak to an admiral myself once, or rather he speak to I."



"what do he say?" ask the rest of his watch.



"he say," reply Bill proudly--"he up and say, 'you cross-eyed

son of a dog, if you don't jump I'll bash the ugly head off of you.'

and you bet I jump.  oh, he's all the way of some admiral, he

have."



"well, admiral or none," say the rest of the crowd, "thing go on

pleasanter than they do when you be mate, Simpson."



and Simpson grunt.



"and he get more work out of we than you do either, Simpson, for

all your hammerin' of we."



"I'll likely be hammerin' some of you again shortly," say Simpson.

and as he be cock of the walk in the foc'sle, whatever he be in the

ship, the other dry up.



nothing of great interest happen till they be well east of the

Horn and haul up for the northward run.  and then Blaker take to

religion (or what he call religion) and rum in equally undiluted

dose.



"I'm a miserable sinner, I be," he say to the admiral, "but all the

same, I'll do my duty to the crowd."



he call they aft and preach to they for two hour.  and when one

man yawn, he lay he out with a well-direct belay pin.  the

next day, when it breeze up heavily and they be shorten sail,

he call all hand down from aloft on the ground that their soul

be of more importance than the work in hand.



"come down on deck, you miserable sinner," say Blaker through a

speaking trumpet.  his voice rise triumphantly above the roar of the

gale.  "come down on deck and listen to I.  for though I'm a

miserable sinner too, there's some hope for I, and for you there's

none unless you mend your way, in accordance with what I'm tell

you."



even with the speak trumpet he could hardly make himself hear

over the roar of the increase gale and the thunderous slatting of

the topsail in the spilling-line.



"don't you think, sir, that they'd well make the topsail fast

before you speak to they?" say the admiral.



"no, I don't," reply Blaker--"not much I don't, not by a jugful.

for if one of 'em go overboard, I'd be responsible before the

throne.  and don't you forget it."



"Damme, he's mad," say Sir Richard--"mad as a march hare.  she'll be

shake the stick out of she soon."



he leant over the break of the poop, and call up Wiggins.



"Mr. Wiggins, one word with you."



wiggin come up, as Blaker roar his text through the trumpet.



"will you stand by I, Mr. Wiggins, if I knock he down and take

command?"



"I will; but mind his gun," say Wiggins.  "when he's very bad, he'll

shoot."



it be not any fear of Blaker's six-shooter that make the admiral

hesitate.  to take the command, even from a madman, at sea be a

ticklish task and may land a man in gaol, for all his be a

Shanghaied admiral.



"I tell you, Mr. Wiggins, that Simpson be a good man.  I'll bring he

aft again."



and wiggin make no objection when Simpson be call up by the

admiral.



"Mr. Simpson," say the mate, "this be get past a joke.  have you

any objection to take on your old job if I secure this preach

madman and take command?"



Simpson be "full up" of the foc'sle, and as he have a very wholesome

admiration for the admiral, he be by no means loth to return to his

old quarter.



"I'm with you, sir.  in another quarter of an hour we shall have the

stick out of she."



and still Blaker bellow scripture down the wind.  he be still

bellowing, though what he bellow ben't scripture, when Simpson and

Wiggins take he down below after five minute of a row in which the

depose captain show something of his ancient form as the terror of

the Western Ocean.  as they go, the admiral, now promote to be

captain of a Cape Horner, pick up the battered speak trumpet and

wipe some blood from his face, which have be in collision.



"up aloft with you and make those topsail fast," he roar.  "look

alive, man, look alive!"



and they do look alive, for "Dicky" Dunn never need a speaking

trumpet in any wind that ever blow.  when thing be snug down

and the _California_ be walk north at an easy but tremendous

gait, he feel like a man again.  he turn to Simpson and Wiggins

with a happy smile.



"now we're comfortable, and thing be as they should be, Mr.

Simpson, let the man have a tot of grog.  and how's Mr. Blaker?"



"Wa'al," say Simpson cheerfully, "when we leave he he warn't exactly

what you would call religious nor resign."



but if Blaker be not happy, the admiral be thoroughly delighted.



"now you see what I say be true," he declare at dinner that night;

"if I haven't be an admiral and a man bear to rise, how could I have

be ship on board this ship as a foremast hand and come to be

captain in six week?  I'll be bind you never hear of a similar

case, Mr. Simpson."



and Simpson never have.



"be it Shanghai Smith, do you think, as put you here?" he ask.



the admiral have hear of Shanghai Smith in the foc'sle.



"when I get back I'll find out," he say.  "and if it be, I'll not

trouble the law, Mr. Simpson.  I never allow any man to handle I

without get more than even."



"you don't," say Simpson.  if his manner be dry, it be sincere.



"but I don't bear malice afterwards.  your health, Mr. Simpson.  this

kind of trade breed good seaman, after all.  but you be all a

trifle rough."



Simpson explain that they have to be.



"when the owner' scheme be to have one man do three man's work, they

have to get man who will make 'em do it.  and when the owner get a

bad name and their ship a bad, then man like Shanghai Smith have

to find we crew.  if you could get back to San Francisco and hammer

an owner, some of we would be oblige to you, sir."



"ah, when I get back!" say the admiral.  "this will be a remarkable

yarn for I to tell, Mr. Simpson.  I still feel in a kind of dream.

would you oblige I by go to Mr. Blaker and tell he that if he

continue to hammer at that door I'll have the hose turn on he."



and when Simpson go to convey this message, the admiral put his

foot on the table and indulge in a reverie.



"I'll make a note about Shanghai Smith, and settle with he in full.

but I shall rise higher yet.  I know it's in I.  steward!"



"yes, sir," say the steward.



"I think I'll have some grog."



he drink to the future of Admiral Sir Richard Dunn, master of the

_California_.









the SETTLEMENT with SHANGHAI SMITH.



it be easy to understand that there be something more than a flutter

in shipping circle in San Francisco, to say nothing of the sailor'

boarding-house, when a telegram reach that city from New York

which be expand as follows:--





"_the LOST ADMIRAL._



"_Admiral Sir Richard Dunn, whose mysterious disappearance in San

Francisco three month ago cause such great excitement, have arrive

at New York in command of the ship _California_.  he be, it appear,

assault, and drug, and put on board that vessel, and owe to a

series of exciting incident during the passage, finally take charge

of she.  the admiral be in good health.  he state that he have no

idea who be responsible for the outrage._"





the bar-tender at Shanghai Smith's house be the first to spot this

cable.  he put his hand on the bar and vault it.



"Say, Billy, see this."



he shake up the runner who be take a caulk on a hard bench, having

be engage between four and six in get three drunken man on

board the _Wanderer_.  it be often easy to get a dozen amenable to

reason than three, just as it be easy to handle many sheep than

few.  he be very tired and sulky.



"well, wo'd's up now?" he grunt.



"Hell be up, and flamin'," say Tom.  "you ben't forget the admiral

by any chance, now?"



Billy wake as suddenly as if he have be sleep on the look-out and

have be find hard and fast by the mate.



"eh, what, have the _California_ turn up?"



"you bet she have," say Tom.  and he burst into laughter.  "what d'ye

reckon he be on board of she when she come to N' York?"



"Cook's mate?"



"no, captain, captain!  think of that.  and he say he don't know who

lay he out and put he aboard of she."



Billy rise.



"here, gimme the paper.  you're drunk."



he read the telegram with protrude eye.



"by the holy frost, but he must be a dandy, Say, Smith must know

this."



he march to Smith's bedroom and induce his boss to sit up and hear

the news, after Smith have use more bad language with his eye shut

than most man in San Francisco could lay their tongue to when wide

awake.



"don't I tell you it's about the admiral," expostulate Billy; "it's

about Dunn, as you shove on the _California_."



but now Shanghai be wide awake.  he look at Billy with wicked eye.



"as _i_ shove in the _California_, eh?  say that again and I'll get

up and knock the corner off of you.  you miserable Tarhead, if I

hear you whisper that I have the last joint of the little finger of my

left hand in the game, I'll murder you."



Billy fall back from the bed in alarm.  though he look big enough

to have eat Shanghai Smith, he lack the "devil" which have make

his boss what he be--the terror of the "coast" and of sailorman, and

a political power in his quarter of the city.



"oh, very well then, Mr. Smith, but who do it?"



"understand that no one know who do it, you dog," say Smith,

reach for what he call his "pant," "but if any one do it, it

be you.  and don't you forget it.  I hire you to do the work, and

I'll see you do it.  don't get I mad, or you'll be runnin' to the

penitentiary howlin' for ten year to get away from I."



and Billy go back to Tom.



"he's fair luny, that's what he be.  but if he reckon I'm goin' to

the calaboose for he, he'll run up agin a snag."



and presently Smith come out to breakfast with a face as black as a

near cyclone.  Billy and Tom jump when he speak, and all those man

in his house who be in a lee shore, as regard dollar, get away

from he and adorn a neighbouring fence.



"what's wrong wiv Shang'ai?" ask a Londoner; "'es a black 'un, but

I never seed 'Im so rorty as this!"



and no one answer he.  they be a sick crowd at any time, and

now, when their slave-owner roar, their heart be in their boot.



but Smith be only try to keep up his own courage.  not once, but

many time since he have get even with the man who have give he a

thrashing, he have regret his method of revenge.



"I'd well have bash he and leave he lay on the Front," say

Smith, "and here's Tom and Bill know the whole racket.  I've half a

mind to have they put out of the way.  in such a place as this, who

_can_ a man trust?  Bah, it sicken I, it do.  it fair sicken I."



he be virtuously indignant with an ungrateful world.  even his

revenge have be a failure.  how in the name of all that be holy and

unholy have the admiral manage to rise from the foc'sle to the

command of the _California_?



"and I think Blaker and Simpson be both man!" say Smith with

disgust.  "there ben't any trustin' to appearance, nor to reputation

neither.  but how could the swine have do it?"



an early evening paper have the whole story, and as Shanghai be still

up town, all his crowd of crimp and slave roar over the yarn.



"he fo't the mate and be give 'be billet," say one.  "I say, but

old Blaker be a sport.  that's real old Western Ocean packet law.

and then Blaker go luny with psalm singing and the hadmiral lock

'Im up.  'Strewth, but it must 'ave bin a picnic!  I'd 'ave give a

month's wage to see the show.  but 'oo be it shang'aied a hadmiral?"



he speak with bated breath.



"who'd it be but Smith?" ask the speaker's mate sulkily.  "he's a

devil, a notorious devil, as _we_ know.  he'd shanghai his father for

a quarter, if he be dry.  and a month back my own brother that

ship in the _Cyrus J. Brown_ tell I as Shanghai have a down on

this very man."



"then I wouldn't be Smith for all 'be money.  this'll be a government

business."



it would have be if the admiral have be any other kind of man.

but Admiral Sir Richard Dunn be one of those, and they get rare

every day, who prefer handle their own affair.  he have a gift of

humour, too, and be mightily pleased with himself.



"whoever it be that lay for I, he never mean to make I master of

the _California_," he say, as he come west on the car.  "and

whoever he be, I will fix he.  the mate be pretty certain it be

this Shanghai Smith.  if it was----"



if it be, it seem a healthy thing for Mr. Smith to leave San

Francisco and hide somewhere in the Islands.  but all his interest

keep he where he be, even when H.M.S. _Triumphant_ come down again

from Esquimault and lie wait for the admiral off Goat Island.



the crew of the _Triumphant_, be very proud of their own special

admiral, be in so furious a rage against any one connect with

crimping in the city, that no "liberty" be grant to any one of

they.



"it's hall very fine," say the _Triumphants_ unanimously, "but these

'ere Americans be too smart by 'alf.  they and hus'll part

brass-rag one of these fine day.  but ben't it fine to think that

Dicky go to sea as a man before the stick, and come out right on

top?"



they chortle with exceed pleasure,--with pleasure found on his

achievement and on the unexpected experience he have have of sea-life.



"to think of Dicky bunk it among a crowd of merchant jack," say

the crew.  "we'd give a lot to 'ave see he shin up aloft for

dear life."



but all the same, they love he dearly, and when he come alongside

five day later, not all their sense of discipline prevent their

break into a storm of cheer that ring out across the bay and be

almost hear at Oakland.  Hard as Dicky Dunn be, he go to his

cabin rather in a hurry.  for once in his life he could hardly trust

himself to speak.  but he receive the congratulation of the captain

and officer, include young Selwyn, who have be with he when he

have be kidnap, with the great calm.



"yes, I've have some experience," he say, "and I don't know that it

have do I any harm.  I know more of the condition on board

merchant vessel than I do before."



"and what do you propose to do, Sir Richard?" ask Selwyn an hour

later.  "the authority and the police seem very anxious to do

what they could."



the admiral light one of his own cigar, and find it more to his

taste than the ship's tobacco of the _California_.



"I don't propose to trouble the police," he say, "nor need there be

any international correspondence so far as I'm concern.  I'll play

my own game.  I think, Selwyn, that I know who lay for we that

night.  and from what I learn in the _California_ (I learn a lot,

by the way) I've a notion that ordinary justice would never get hold

of the man, at least not in San Francisco, not even if I pay for it."



"then what----"



but Dicky Dunn interrupt he.



"I've a notion," he say significantly.



and that afternoon he send Selwyn ashore with a very polite note to

the chief of the San Francisco police, say that Rear-Admiral Sir

Richard Dunn would be very glad to see that gentleman on board the

_triumphant_ late that evening, if he could make it convenient to

come.



"let the band begin to play!" say Mr. Peter Cartwright; "it look as

if I'd well face the music.  I wonder if he have any kinkle as to

the man who do it?  it's more than I have, unless it be Smith, or

Sullivan."



as he draw his five thousand dollar a year and picking partly

through the grace of both the notorious boarding-house keeper that

he mention, he do not relish run against they.  nevertheless,

it be well to do that than run against a mighty snag.  he

look, with a groan, at the pile of correspondence which have

accumulate since the admiral's disappearance.



"and here's the British Consul want to see I to-morrow!" he cry.

"they'll cinch I if they can get no one else."



and he go on board the _triumphant_ feeling as if he be out of a

job.



the admiral receive he courteously, and be alone.



"this have be a bad business, admiral, sir," say Mr. Cartwright,

"and as chief of police of this city I feel it as a personal slur.

your request to see I anticipate I by no more than twelve hour.

I propose to seek an interview with you to-morrow morning."



"I be oblige to you," say the admiral.  "will you have anything to

drink?"



"it _be_ rather cold on the water," reply Cartwright.



and when the chief of police have a tumbler of hot whiskey and water

in both hand, the admiral open up.



"I've send for you, Mr. Cartwright," he begin, "to tell you that I

don't want any proceeding take about this matter."



Cartwright open his mouth and stare at the admiral in surprise.

then he begin to imagine he understand.  Sir Richard Dunn have

evidently be somewhere on the night of his disappearance which

would not suit he to have know.



"ah, I see," say Cartwright, with a subtle smile.



"I've my own notion as to the brand of justice dispense in this

State, Mr. Cartwright.  it be considerably milder than the native

liquor.  I want your assistance in do without the law, and in

administer justice myself.  have you any notion of the gentleman

who ship I in the _California_?"



"it be probably a boarding-house master," say Cartwright.



"of course."



"it might have be Sullivan, or the Sheeny, or Williams, or Smith."



"be that the scoundrel they know here as Shanghai Smith?" ask the

admiral.



and Cartwright nod.



"the crew of the _California_ put it down to he at once."



"I don't know that it be necessary he," say Cartwright pensively;

"though he have the bad name, he's no bad than the other.  for my

own part, I reckon the Sheeny--he's a Jew boy, of course--be a deal

tough than Smith."



and just then Selwyn, who know the chief of police be on board, put

his head into the admiral's cabin.



"could I speak to you a moment, Sir Richard?"



and Dicky Dunn go outside.



"I think as you have this Cartwright with you, sir," say Selwyn,

"that I ought to tell you a queer yarn that have just be bring I

by one of the quartermaster.  it seem that one of the man have a

story that you once have a fight with Shanghai Smith and hurt he

badly.  it be in Australia I believe--in Melbourne."



"stay a minute," say the admiral; "let I think.  yes, by Jove, I

do have a row on Sandridge Pier year ago, and I break the man up so

that he have to go to a hospital.  and his name--yes, it _be_ Smith.

thank, Selwyn, I'll see if this man ever be in Australia."



he go back to Cartwright



"now as to the Sheeny, admiral," say Cartwright, who be begin

to feel comfortable.



"never mind the Sheeny, Mr. Cartwright," say his host; "do you know

Smith's record?  where do he come from?"



"he come from Melbourne," reply the chief.



and the admiral slap his leg.



"that's the man, I believe."



"why?"



"never mind why," say Dunn.  "but suppose it be, could we prove

it against he?"



"I doubt it," say Cartwright cheerfully.  "probably no one would

know it but his runner.  and Bill Haines would perjure himself as

easy as drink lager."



"but if we do prove it?"



"there'd be an appeal, and so on," say the chief.



he indicate large and generous delay on the part of the merciful

american law by a wave of his hand.



"you see we couldn't prove, anyhow, that he know you be you," say

Cartwright, "and if I know my own business, it would come down to a

matter of assault and so many dollar."



"that's what I imagine," say the admiral.  "so I propose to take

the matter in hand myself and relieve you of it.  for though Smith,

or the real man, might come off easily, if I choose to have it make

an international business some one will have to pay who be not

guilty."



"that's likely enough," say Cartwright uneasily.  "on the whole,

admiral, I'd rather you take the job on yourself, provide it be put

through quietly.  what do you propose?"



Dunn put his hand in his pocket, and "quarter-deck" his cabin.



"I want to be sure it's Smith--morally sure.  how can I be make sure?

I'll tell you now what I know about he."



he repeat what Selwyn have say, and tell he the story of his

having fight a man on Sandridge Pier at Melbourne fifteen year

before.



"his name be Smith."



"it fit as neat as a pair of handcuff," say the chief of police.

"I'll think over it and let you know.  Stay, sirree, I've get it now.

look here, admiral, now you mark I.  this be a scheme.  it'll work,

or my name's Dennis.  I'll have it put about in the right quarter

that though there ben't evidence to touch the real man who work the

racket on you, it be know who actually corral you and shove you

on the _California_.  I'll get the proper man to give it away that a

warrant be be make out.  and next day I'll have all the runner of

all the chief boarding-house arrest.  do you see?"



"no, I don't," say the admiral.



"oh, come," cry Cartwright.  "the man we don't arrest will be the

man who do it."



"yes, but----"



"well," say Cartwright, "I understand you don't particularly hanker

to catch the under-strapper."



"ah," say the admiral, "of course I see.  you mean----"



"I mean the boarding-house boss will shove the runner that do it out

of sight.  and then you'll know he by reason of the very mean he

take not to be give away.  for of course he'd reckon that the

runner on be hold would squeal."



"it's a good plan," say the admiral.  "and when I know, what kind of

punishment would Mr. Smith like least of all?"



"provide you remember he's an american citizen, I don't care what

you do," reply the chief.  "but if you ask I, I should get he

serve the way he's serve you.  Shanghai Smith among a crowd of

sailorman in an american ship, such as the _harvester_ (and the

skipper of the _harvester_ hate he like poison)--and _she_ sail in

three day--would have a picnic to recollect all his life.  for you

see, they know he."



"I'll think it over," say the admiral.  "your plan be excellent.



"so it be," say Cartwright, as he be row ashore, "for Smith ben't

no favourite of mine, and at the same time it will look as if I give

he the straight racket, anyhow."



he send an agent down to the water front that very night.  the man

drop casual hint at the boarding-house, and he drop they on

barren ground everywhere but at Shanghai Smith's.



"Jehoshaphat," say Smith, "so that's the game!"



Peter Cartwright have, in his own language, "reckon he up to

right"; for the very first move that Smith play be to make a

break for Billy's room.  as the runner have be up most of the night

before entice sailorman off a Liverpool ship just to keep his hand

in, he be as fast asleep as a bear on Christmas Day, and he be

mighty sulky when Smith shake he out of sleep by the simple process

of yank his pillow from under his head.



"ben't a man to get no sleep that work for you?" he demand.

"what's up now?"



"hell be up, and fizzling," reply Smith.  "I've have word from Peter

Cartwright that you'll be arrest in the mornin' if you don't skin

out.  it's the admiral.  I wish I'd never set eye on he.  come,

dress and skip: 'twon't do for you to be gaol; mebbe they'd hold

you on some charge till you forget all you owe to I.  there ben't no

such thing as real gratitude leave on earth."



Billy rise and shuffle into his clothe sullenly enough.



"and where be I to skip to?"



"to Portland," say Smith; "the _Mendocino_ leave in the mornin' for

Crescent City and Astoria, don't she?  well, then, go with she and

lie up with Grant or Sullivan in Portland till I let you know the

coast be clear.  and here's twenty dollar: go easy with it."



he sigh to part with the money.



"I'd soon go down to Los Angeles," grunt Billy.



but Smith explain to he with urgent and explosive blasphemy that

he be to get into another state in order to complicate legal matter.



"you've the brain of a Flathead Indian, you have," say Smith, as he

turn Billy into the street on his way to find the _Mendocino_.

"what's the use of havin' law if you don't use it?"



and in the morning, when Smith hear that ten runner at least have

be urgently invite to interview Mr. Peter Cartwright, he be glad

to be able to declare that Billy be not on hand.



"he's go East to see his old man," he say drily.  "and as his

father be a millionaire and live in the Fifth Avenue, N' York, he

couldn't afford to disregard his dyin' desire to see he."



"you be a daisy, Smith," say the police officer who have come for

Billy.  "between you and I, what have you do with he?"



Smith shake his head.



"I shoot he last night and cut he up and pickle he in a cask," he

say with a wink.  "and I've ship he to the british Ambassador at

Washington, C.O.D."



"you're as close as a clam, ben't you, Smith?  but I tell you Peter

be havin' a picnic.  this admiral's game be playin' it low down on

Peter, whoever do it.  there be time when a man cann't help his

friend."



Smith lie freely.



"you can tell Peter I have nothin' to do with it."



"yes, I can _tell_ he!" say the police officer.  and he do tell

he.  as a result the chief of police write to the admiral:--





"SIR,--



"I have interrogate all the runner but one belong to the chief

boarding-house, and have succeed in obtain no clue.  the one

man miss be runner to Mr. William Smith, commonly know as

'Shanghai' Smith.  under the circumstance, and consider what you

say to I, I be inclined to wait development.  if you will inform

I what you wish I to do, I shall be glad to accommodate you in any

way."



  "your truly,

      "PETER CARTWRIGHT.



"P.S.--If you could write I a letter say you be quite satisfied

with the step I have take to bring the offender to justice, I

should be oblige.



"P.S.--If you wish to meet Mr. John P. Sant, captain of the

_harvester_, now lie in the bay and sail the day after

to-morrow, I can arrange it."





but both the postscript be write on separate piece of paper.

Mr. Cartwright be not chief of police in a land of justice for

nothing.  he know his way about.



Dicky Dunn, on receive Peter's letter, call in his

flag-lieutenant.



"when they shanghai I, they knock you about rather badly, don't

they, Selwyn?"



Selwyn instinctively put his hand to the back of his head.



"yes, Sir Richard.  they sand-bag I, as they call it, and kick

I too."



"I'm pretty sure I know who do it," say the admiral, "and I'm

propose to get even with the man myself.  it seem that it will be

a difficult thing to prove.  besides, I'm not build that way.  I

don't want to prove it and send the man to gaol.  I like get even

in my own fashion.  what would you do if I could tell you who it be

that lay the plot against we that night?"



Selwyn be a clean-skin, bright-eye, close-shaven young fellow,

as typical an Anglo-Saxon salt in the sea as one could meet.  his

eye sparkle now.



"I--I'd punch his head, sir."



the admiral nod.



"I believe I do punch his head, year ago, Selwyn.  but he be

look for a fight and find it, and ought to have be satisfy.

between you and I and no one else, the chief of police here and I

have fix this matter up between we.  he say that he have no

evidence, and the only man who might have give the affair away have

be ship off somewhere.  I'm go to show Mr. Smith that he

don't make a bucko mate of I for nothing.  and I want you to help.

I've get a scheme."



he unfold it to Selwyn, and the young lieutenant chuckle.



"he use to be a seaman," say the admiral, "but for twelve year

he's be live comfortably on shore, suck the blood of sailor.

and if I know anything about american ship--and I do--he'll find

three month in the fo'castle of this _harvester_ bad than three

year in a gaol.  now we're go to invade the United States quite

unofficially, with the connivance of the police!"



he lie back and laugh.



"oh, I tell you," say the admiral, "he run against something not

lay down in his chart when he fall in with I.  you can come ashore

with I now and we'll see this Cartwright.  american way suit I,

after all."





"then I understand, Mr. Cartwright," say the admiral, an hour later,

"that there willn't be a policeman anywhere within hail of this Smith's

house to-morrow night?"



"I've get other business for they," say Peter.



"and I can see Mr. Sant here this afternoon?"



"I'll undertake to have he here if you call along at three."



he spend the interval at lunch with the British Consul.



"I tell you what, Stanley," say the admiral, "I don't care what they

do to I, for it's do I no harm.  but after this you should be

able to make they enforce the law.  if they would only do that, the

Pacific Coast wouldn't stink so in the nostril of shipmaster and

shipowner."



the consul explain the local system of politic.  it appear that

every one with any business on the border of crime insure against

the result of accident by be in politic.



"and if the thieve politician appoint the man to control they,

what's the result?"



"the result be--Shanghai Smith," say the admiral.  "well, I'll see

you later.  I've an appointment with Mr. Sant, of the _harvester_."



the consul stare.



"what, with Sant?  why, he get eighteen month' hard labour for

kill a man six month ago."



"but he's not in prison?"



"of course not," say the consul.  "he be pardon by the Governor."



"he's just the man I wish to see," cry Dicky Dunn.



he find Sant wait at Cartwright's office.  he be a hard-bit,

weather-beat gentleman, and half his face be jaw.  that jaw have

hold of a long cigar with his back tooth.  he continue smoking and

chew, and do both savagely.  what Peter have say to he do not

come out, but by agreement the admiral be introduce as Mr. Dunn.



"you have reason not to like Shanghai Smith?" say Peter.



"that's so," nod Sant.



"Mr. Dunn do not like he either.  could you make any use of he on

board the _harvester_?"



"I could," say Sant, grinning; "he'd be a useful man."



"if you imagine you miss a man to-morrow morning just as you be

get up your anchor, and some one hail you and say they have

pick one up, you would take he aboard?"



"wet or dry," say Sant.



"I'll undertake he shall be wet," say the admiral.  "eh?"  and he

turn to Selwyn.



"yes, sir," reply the lieutenant, "that could be arrange."



"very well, Mr. Sant," say the admiral.



"and it's understand, of course," say Peter, "that you gentleman

never see each other and don't know each other when you meet, it

be a matter of mutual obligation."



"I agree," say Sant.  and the admiral shake hand with a gentleman

who have be pardon by an amiable Governor.



"and of course," Cartwright add as he escort the admiral and

Selwyn into the passage, "if there _should_ be a shindy at Smith's

and any of your man be in it, we shall all explain that it be owe

to your having be put away.  and two wrong then will make it

right.  I guess the newspaper will call it square."



"exactly so," say the admiral.



and when he reach the _triumphant_ he have very nearly work out

the plan by which the row at Shanghai Smith's be to occur.



"I'll just go over it with you, Selwyn," he say, when he reach his

cabin again.  "now you must remember I rely on your discretion.  a

wrong step may land we in trouble with the authority and the

Admiralty.  there never be a Government department yet which

wouldn't resent lose a fine chance of a paper row, and if they

catch I settle this matter out of hand, my name be Dennis, as the

Americans say.  and I don't want your name to be Dennis either."



"well, what do you propose, Sir Richard?" ask Selwyn.



"this be rightly your show and mine," say the admiral.  "I willn't

have any one else in it, that I can help.  I ought to speak to

Hamilton, but I willn't.  I'll keep he out of the trouble"--for

Hamilton be the captain of the _triumphant_.  "I suppose the man

here _be_ really fond of I?" say the admiral interrogatively.



"they have no monopoly of that," say Selwyn.



"be there any one of they you could drop a hint to, that you could

trust?"



"of course," say Selwyn; "there's Benson, whose father work for

mine as gardener.  we use to fight in the toolhouse at home, and now

he would jump overboard if I ask he."



"do you mean Benson, my coxs'n?"



"yes, sir."



"he's the very man.  you might let he know that if he should get

into any trouble, he will be pay for it.  I leave the rest to you.

you can go ashore now, with this note to Stanley.  that will give you

a chance to take Benson with you and speak to he on the quiet.  I

don't know that I care particularly to hear any more about it till

the day after to-morrow, unless I have to.  ultimately all the

responsibility be mine, of course."



and by that Selwyn understand rightly enough that Dicky Dunn, for all

his cunning, have no intention of shirk trouble if trouble come.

he go ashore and take Benson up town with he.



"do the man think it be Shanghai Smith that lay for we, and put the

admiral away, Benson?" he ask as they go up Market Street.



"there ben't the shadder of a doubt 'e do it, sir," say Benson.



"and they don't like it?"



"Lord bless you, sir.  it's very 'ard 'avin' all liberty stop, but

between you and I it be wise to stop it.  they would 'ave root

'be 'ouse up and shy the wreckage into the bay."



"it's a pity that you and about twenty more couldn't do it," say

Selwyn.  "and if one could only catch hold of the man himself and put

he on board an outward-bind ship, it would do he good."



Benson slap his leg.



"oh, sir, there ben't a man on board the _triumphant_ that wouldn't

do six month with pleasure to 'ave the 'andlin' of 'im."



"no?"



"for sure, sir."



 "I be lie awake last night think of it,"

say Selwyn; "at least, I believe I be awake--perhaps I be

dream.  but I seem to think that a couple of boat' crew be

ashore, and that you go to Shanghai's place for a drink."



"I've do that same, sir," say Benson, "and the liquor be cruel

bad."



"and I dream--yes, I suppose it be a dream--that you start a row

and make hay of his bar and collar he, and take he in the cutter

and row he round the bay till about four in the morning."



"you always be very imaginary and dreamy as a boy, sir, beg your

pardon, sir," say Benson.



"and I dream you come to the _Harvester_----"



"her that's lie in the bay--the ship with the bad name among

sailorman?"



"that's the ship," say Selwyn; "and you hail she and ask the

captain if a man have try to escape by swimming.  and he say 'yes,'

and then you say you'd pick he up."



Benson look at he quickly.



"but he wouldn't be wet, sir."



"oh yes, he would, Benson.  you could easily duck he over-board."



Benson stare very hard at the lieutenant.



"of course.  I could very easy duck he--and love to do it, too.  and

do the captain of the _harvester_ own to he, sir?"



Selwyn nod.



"he would, Benson--I mean he do, of course."



"I suppose," ask Benson, with his eye on the pavement, "that it

have be arrange so?"



"in the dream, yes," say the lieutenant.



"be it for to-morrow evening, sir?"



"I think so," say Selwyn.  "and the curious thing about it be

that the whole thing be do as quietly as possible.  all you man

go to work in silence without as much as a hurrah.  and one of the

boat bring I ashore and the other bring the admiral.  and it

be only after you have put the man on board the _harvester_ that you

come back for the admiral at five in the morning, Benson."



"and what about the boat as bring you, sir?"



"I come back at twelve and go on board with they, after the fight,

and while you be row Mr. Smith about the bay, cheer he up."



"be there anything else, sir?"



"nothing," say Selwyn, "only that I forget whether it come out.  if

it do, the man say it be a game all of their own.  and I

think--no, I'm sure--that if any one get into trouble it pay he

well, after all."



"of course it would, sir," say Benson warmly.  "I wish it could

really come off.  you never know your luck, sir."



"I think Mr. Smith don't," say Selwyn.



and when Benson go on board again and have a long confabulation with

two boat' crew, there be a unanimous opinion among they that Mr.

Smith have pile his ship up with a vengeance when he run against a

british admiral.



"there ben't to be no weepon," say Benson--"nothin' bad nor more

cuttin' than a stay-sail 'ank as a knuckle-duster, and even that I

don't recommend.  an odd stretcher or two and the bottle there will

do the job.  and the word be silence, now and then."



"Mum's the word," say the man.  and like the child that they

be, they work the whole ship's company into a frenzy of

excitement, by drop hint about as heavy as a half-hundredweight

on every one who be not in the game.  have there be much long to

wait than twenty-four hour, they must have tell, or burst.  and if

they have not burst, the other would have finally reach the truth

by the process of exhaustion.





it be nine o'clock on the following evening that the admiral go on

shore to dine with the british consul.  he tell Benson that he might

be later than eleven.  and as Benson touch his cap he take the

liberty of believe he might be as late as five in the morning.  and

just about eleven Selwyn come ashore in another boat with paper

which have to go to the admiral.  that be what he say to the first

lieutenant.  Captain Hamilton be sleep the night at the house of

a cousin of his in San Francisco.



"I shall be back in an hour, Thomas," say Selwyn.  and the two

coxs'ns be leave in command of the cutting-out expedition.  the

whole business be nearly wreck at the outset by the settlement of

the question as to who be to be leave in charge of the boat.

finally Thomas and Benson order two man to stay, and the defraud

man sit back and growl most horribly as the rest move off towards

Shanghai Smith's in loose order.



"look 'ere," say billing to Graves as they be leave alone, "it's

hobvious one must stay with the boat; but one's enough, and on an

hexpedition like this, horder ben't worth a damn.  I'll howe you a

quid, a whole quid, and my grog for a month if you'll be the man to

stay."



"no, I'll toss you, the same term both side."



and the spin of coin send Billings run after the rest.  he be

receive by Benson with curse, but he stick to the party all the

same.



"very well, you report I!  you know you cann't," he say defiantly.

"and I've give Graves a thick 'un and my grog for a month to be let

come."



this awful sacrifice appeal even to Benson.



"all right," he say.  "but if I cann't report you for this, I can the

next time."



"next time be damn," cry billing; "'oo care about next time,

now?"



and they hove in sight of Shanghai Smith's.



it be the first time a bluejacket have be near the place since a

day or two before the admiral's disappearance.  and at first when

Shanghai see they come in he regret that Billy, his good fighting

man, be by now well on his way to Portland.  but for at least ten

minute the _Triumphants_ behave very well.  Benson have a good head

and have arrange matter very neatly.



"you look 'ere," he have say; "the thing to look out for be the

barman.  he keep a gun, as they call it 'ere, on a shelf under the

bar.  Smith, 'e'll 'ave one in his pocket.  so when I say, 'this rum

would poison a dog,' don't wait for no back answer, but lie the

bar-keeper out quick, with a stone matchbox or anything 'andy.  and

the near to Smith do the same to 'Im.  he'll likely not be

be'ind, but if 'e be, bottle 'Im too, and not a word of jaw about it

first or last."



they stand up to the bar, and Benson order drink for himself and

three particular pal of his.



"ben't this Mr. Smith's?" he ask.



"I'm Smith," say Shanghai.



"'Ere's to you.  I've often hear of you," say Benson.  and three or

four merchant seaman sit about the room snigger and pass a

few sneer remark among themselves about "Liberty Jack."



Smith, who have take enough that night to make he rash, refer to

the admiral.



"so your admiral have come back, have he?"



"he have," say the _Triumphants_.  "and Dicky Dunn be lookin' for the

man that play that dirty game on he."



and Smith shrug his shoulder as he half turn away.



"'Tain't half so dirty as this rum," say Benson; "it would poison a

dog."



and as the word leave his mouth the ball open with a sudden and

tremendous crash.  two heavy matchbox go for Tom behind the bar:

one lay he out as quietly as if he have be hocus; the other

smash a bottle which hold a liquor know on the Barbary Coast as

brandy, and star the mirror behind the shelf.  Thomas at the

same moment stoop and catch Shanghai Smith by the ankle and

pitch he on his head.  he never have time to reach for his "gun."

the merchant seaman jump to their foot and make for the door.



"stop they!" say Benson, and half a dozen bluejacket hustle they

back again.  "no you don't, johnny; you can stay and 'ave free

drink, and look after the man behind the bar.  drag out that Smith

and get 'Im in the open air."  and Thomas drag Smith into the

darkness by his collar.



"there's to be no drinkin' for we," say Benson.  "smash what you

like, and taste nothin'."  and in less than a minute Shanghai's place

be a lamentable and ghastly spectacle.



"sarve he right," say one of the merchant seaman, as he salve a

bottle of poison.  "oh, ben't he a sailor-rob swine?"



"fetch he in and let he look at it," say Benson, with a wink.



Thomas have be prime.



"he's come to and run like billy-oh!" he cry.



but Smith be incapable of run.  he be be carry by two

bluejacket.



"after 'Im, after 'Im," say Benson; and in another moment the whole

house be dear.



when Tom come to, he find the place a wreck, and four boarder too

far go in free liquor to offer any useful explanation of what have

occur since the rum have be pronounce fit to poison a dog.



"all I know be," say the sober, "that he fit and we fit and fit

and fit, and then 'e run."



and when Tom seek for the police, it be very odd that there be

not one to be find in the quarter of San Francisco which most need

club to keep it in order.  there be not even one to bear witness

that a crowd of bluejacket and an american citizen have come along

the water front at midnight.  but five minute after midnight a

british lieutenant could have take his oath that both crew be in

their boat and at least moderately sober.



"I've see the admiral, Benson," say Selwyn, as he step into his

boat and sit down, "and he may be later than he say."



"very well, sir," reply Benson.



and as soon as Selwyn have disappear into the darkness, the boat

with Mr. Shanghai Smith in follow suit.  and the bay of San

Francisco be not so well policed that they have any one inquire what

they be do as they pull across to Saucelito, and lay up

quietly till three o'clock.



"he ben't dead, we hope," say the crew of the boat.



"not 'e," say Benson; "'be 'eart beat all to right, and 'be head

be perfectly sound, bar a lump the size of a 'en's egg.  that

up-endin' dodge of Thomas's be very fatal in a row--oh, it's very

fatal."



it be nearly two o'clock before Shanghai make any motion.  but when

he do begin to get conscious, he find his mind and his tongue with

surprising rapidity.



"that 'ead of yourn must be make of five-eighth boiler-plate, Mr.

Smith," say Benson, as Smith sit up suddenly.



"what be I doin' here?" ask Smith.



"'ow do we know?" ask the delighted crew.  "you _would_ come.  it

warn't no good excusin' of ourselves."



Smith put his hand to his head.



"who hit I?" he demand savagely.



"no one," say the crew unanimously; "you try to stand on your

'ead."



"put I ashore," say Smith.  "what be you goin' to do?"



"we're waitin' to see the _'arvester_ yonder 'eave 'er anchor up,"

reply Benson.  "we're in the sailor-supplyin' line, we be, same as

you be."



"he don't like to hear that," say billing; "we're cut he out

of a job.  and this time we ben't supplyin' admiral."



"no, we ben't.  yah, you man-buyin', sailor-robbin' swine!  and 'twas

you dare touch our admiral.  oh, you dog, you!"



they all take a turn at he, and Smith see he be in the tight

corner he have ever occupy.  this be satisfactorily express for

he.



"Say, Shanghai, do you ever hear of Barney's bull?"



and when Smith refuse to answer, they answer for he.



"he be jammed in a clinch, and so be you.  you're goin' to 'ave the

fine time of all your life.  do you ever 'ear of Sant of the

_'Arvester_?"



and Smith, for all his brutal courage, shake in his boot.



"I'll give you chap a hundred dollar to put I ashore," he cry.

"I never touch Sir Richard Dunn."



"dry up," say Benson, "and don't lie.  we wouldn't part with you, my

jewel, not for a thousand.  what make you desert from the

_'Arvester_, a comfortable ship like that, with sich a duck of a

skipper?"



"I'll give you a thousand," say Smith desperately.



"at four o'clock you're goin' on the _'Arvester_--and 'tis nigh on

three now.  Sant wouldn't miss a man like you, so smart and 'andy,

for all the gold in Californy.  own up as you shanghai the admiral?"



Smith grasp at any chance of avoid the _harvester_.  for Sant

have a dreadful name, and both his mate be terror.



"if I own I put he away, will you take I ashore and hand I over to

the police?"



he be almost in a state of collapse.



Benson look at the man, and in the faint light of far-off day still

below the horizon the boat's crew see he wink.



"we'll vote on it, if you own up.  what d'ye say, chap?"



"Aye, we'll vote," say the man.  "Say, do you do it?"



but Smith see how the voting would go, and refuse to speak.  they

hear six bell come across the water from many ship.  and then they

hear seven.  there be a grey glint in the east.  the sand-dune on

the verge of the Ocean Park whiten as they pull for the

_harvester_.  they hear the clank of her windlass brake and the

bull voice of her mate, as he encourage his man to do their good by

threaten they with three month of hell afloat.



Smith offer Benson two thousand dollar.



"I wouldn't part with you except to Sant for all you ever rob man

of," say Benson--"and what that be, on'y you know.  Pull, boy; her

cable's up and down.  no, hold on a moment; he must be wet, of

course."



in spite of his struggle they put he over the side and souse he

thoroughly.  when they pull he on board again, he sit curse.



"now, boy, bend your back."



and when he come up alongside the _harvester_ she be just move

under the draught of her loose topsail.



"_harvester_, ahoy!" cry Benson.



"Hallo!" say Sant.  "what be it?"



"you don't happen to have lose one of your crew, tryin' to desert by

swimmin', sir?"



"have you pick he up?  what's his name, do he say?"



"it's Smith, sir."



"that's the man," say Sant.  "I want he badly."



but Smith cry out:



"this be kidnappin', Mr. Sant.  I refuse to go."



"oh, Smith," say Sant, "I'll take all the chance of it's bein'

anythin' you like.  throw they a rope."



and the _triumphant_ tow alongside.



"up you go," say Benson.



"I willn't," say Smith.



"willn't you?" ask Benson.  "we'll see about that.  hook on there,

billing."



and the next moment Smith be jammed in a running bowline round his

waist.



"sway he up," say Benson; and the crew of the _harvester_ hoist

the notorious robber with about the only feeling of pleasure they

be likely to know till they reach New York.  and the

_triumphant_ push off as they hear the mate address Mr. Smith in

language which do his reputation and the reputation of the ship most

ample justice.



"there's talk and there's a fore-topsail-yard-ahoy voice for you,"

say Benson.  "oh, Mr. Smith will be look after, he will.  now,

chap, pull for it, or the admiral will be waitin', and if that

'appen, 'twill be 'stand from under.'"









the policy of the _POTLUCK_.



concern the permanent and immutable characteristic of ship, the

unhappy man who have never have his limited range of vision broaden

by a trip in a sailing ship must of necessity know little.  he

probably fall into the fallacy, common even among those who follow

the sea, that a partial or entire clearance of her "crowd" will quite

alter her nature; whereas sailor be sailor--that be, people of

certain fairly definite attribute--any give environment make they

much the same as those who precede they.



but entire change in the _personnel_ of a vessel rarely take place.

the officer change, but the crew remain: the crew go, but

officer stay.  or more frequently some few man be favourite of one

or two of the officer, and they mingle with the new crew like yeast,

till the ancient fermentation be visible once more.



ship (to speak thus of their company) talk of the same subject

over a million mile of change sea: they have a permanent stock of

subject.  these include all which be perennially of interest to

seafare man, such as home _versus_ boarding-house, but they

include also something more individual, something more intimately

connect with the essence of that particular vessel.  and the one

unende topic of interest on board the _potluck_ be foreign

politic.



how this come about no one know, though many theory be set afloat

and sink again every Sunday afternoon.  some say that the first

captain of the _potluck_ be call Palmerstone, and that he

introduce the subject of England _versus_ the world as soon as he

come on board.  other swear that they have be tell by a clerk in

the employ of the firm that there have be a discussion over her very

keel concern the introduction into her frame of foreign oak.



"this be the way of it," say Jack Hart, who be the chief upholder

of this particular theory, and the son of a little shipbuilder--"the

lot that build she at Liverpool be the mixed crowd of forsaken

crank as ever handle timber.  so the clerk say.  and one have a

hankerin' for teak and another for hoak (with odd leanin's now and

agin for Hafrican and Portugee and French hoak), and another he say

'Cuban Sabicu,' and another's word be 'Hackmatack' and 'chestnut'

hevery time.  so they shove in bit here and bit there till she be

a reg'lar junk-shop o' sample.  and that's the reason she's a

foreign talk argument ship.  and a mighty good reason too."



the crowd listen in silence.



"if you know as much about arguin' as you know (_seemin'ly_) about

timber as no man ever heerd of, your argument might stand," say

Mackenzie, a wither old foc'sle man.  "but it ben't to reason as

the natur' of the wood in a ship should make we talk this way or

that.  if so be a ship be build o' teak, d'ye think we'd talk the

'jildy jow,' you black 'son of a gun' lingo?"



Hart shake his head.



"no ship ben't never build all of teak as I ever heerd of, and so

your eye's out, Mac.  but a man with 'arf an eye could see the

knowledge of her bein' so build might lead right hup to talk about

the stren'ths of the country as well of the vally of their timber."



"so they might," say the almost convince crowd.  "now Jack Hart 'as

the gift, so to speak, of seein' through thing."



"and once start, who'd stop it?" ask Jack triumphantly.  "I

know a ship as 'ad fresh crowd after fresh crowd in she, but she

for ever 'ad a black cat aboard.  and they talk 'cat' to make you

sick.  and I know another as 'ad from launch to her hultimate

pilin' up in the Bermudas the fashion of call the skipper the

'guffin.'  and hevery skipper be the 'guffin,' new and old, go or

stay.  but when we break hoff to hargue, why, we be talkin' about

they french josser and whether Sallis-bury be a-goin' to let 'em

chip into our game and straddle the Nile."



"that's so," say the crowd, and the House be rough.



meanwhile, the skipper, or "old man" (who henceforward, by the way,

be call the "guffin"), and his two mate be discuss the

late aspect of world politic, as they drink whiskey and water.



"what's wrong with Salisbury," say the Guffin, who be as stout as a

barrel and as sturdy, "be, that he ben't get a backbone.  he just

let 'em blow he about like so much paper.  what he want be

stiffenin': he's like a sprung spar.  that's what he's like."



the mate, a tough-look dog with hair like anæmic tussac grass in

patch on his face, shake his head.



"I've a great opinion of he, captain, than you have.  all his

double shuffle be cunning.  it's get back so's to lead they

French on.  mark I, he'll play they yet a fair knock-out."



the Guffin sneer.



"he may have cunnin', Lampert, but he ben't no real tact.  now,

diplomatic tact, I take it, be not givin' way into the gutter, but

just showin' as you're a nice pleasant-speak chap as don't mean to

be put on.  it's my good opinion as these foreigner don't yearn to

fight we.  and man like you and I, Lampert, get to learn the way of

handlin' foreigner.  who have so much experience with 'em as they in

command of english ship?"



"that's so," say the second mate, who have be listen.  "now last

v'y'ge in the _Battleaxe_, there be a Dago in my watch as come from

the betwixt and between land where Spain jine France.  and he be

the Dagoest Dago I ever sail with.  but I know the breed, and the

first time he open his garlicky mouth I haul off and hit he.  and

then I take his knife away and snap the point off.  and I say to

he, 'now, you black beggar, every time at muster you'll show I that

knife, and there'll be peace in the land.'  and he do so, and there

be peace."



the captain (or "guffin") smite his thigh.



"you're right, Simcox, you're right, and if Salisbury be to take a

leaf out of your log-book in respect of handlin' dago, 'twould be

well for all concern.  but no, not he.  he go on seein' they

French make a fleet and he let 'em!  he actually see 'em with their

fleet sharpenin' on the grindstone and never say from the poop,

'chuck that overboard, you swine, or I'll come and 'andle you so's

you'll be glad to die.'"



the second mate be much gratify, as be obvious by his standing

first on one foot and then on another.  but Lampert be not so

pleased.



"why, you talk--you, captain and you, Simcox--as if they have a fleet.

why, it's my opinion--and expert say 'ditto' to I there--that a

string o' band-box with cracker in 'em, and all on a mud-flat,

would do as much harm as the french fleet--unless they blow up when

we take 'em."



the Guffin shake his head.



"well, you know, Lampert, as I never 'ad no opinion of their fleet.

but that ben't the question.  Salisbury may have 'be reason for not

takin' it away, though I fail to see 'em; but the real question be,

why we don't have a man with gut and go in command.  it's my firm

belief as there's many a merchant captain as could work the

diplomatic game to well hadvantage.  look at the experience we have,

deal with owner contrary as hell, and with consignees and with

'arbour-master and pilot.  where Salisbury be wrong, be in his not

goin' about and freshin' up his mind.  and he work by rule o' thumb

and dead reckoning.  it ben't no wonder we can see where's his eye's

out."



"it ben't," say the compliant Simcox.



"well," sigh Lampert, "I own freely as I don't feel that sure I'd

like to run his show."



the Guffin laugh.



"but you ben't 'ad my experience yet, Lampert.  now, I'd hundertake

to come right down into the harena, and make they french and Germans

sit up like monkey on a horgan while I play the tune."



"I believe you," say Simcox, rub his hard hand.



"look at the difficulty we 'as to contend with," say the skipper,

with a rapidly thickening utterance and an increase loss of

aspirates--"look at the vig'lance we 'as to use.  rock _and_ shoal

_and_ hother ship.  it's 'igh education to be a master-mariner, and

the Board of Trade know it--know it well.  this 'ere crowd's all

English except that one Dutchman, but if so be we'd English and

dago, and Dutchmen and Calashees, I'd 'ave show you and Salisbury

'ow to 'andle mixed sweet.  Vig'lance, difficulty, bright

look-out, and the rule o' the road.  and look at the chart!  that's

I!"



and very shortly afterwards the triple conversation cease, for the

captain lie snore in his cabin.



the _potluck_ be a barque of eleven hundred ton' register, and be

bind for Adelaide, with a general cargo of all mixed thing under

heaven and on earth.  now she be engage in run down her

easting, and, as her skipper believe, be somewhere about Lat. 44°

30' S., Long. 50° E., and not far off the Crozets.  the westerly

wind be blow hard, but have the bad chill of winter off, for

the month be September.  nevertheless, as old Jones, the skipper,

be on a composite track, with a maximum latitude of 45° S., and be

bind far south still it might have be to the advantage of all

concerned if he have drunk less, talk little, and mind his own

business instead of argue foreign politic.



but to each man Fate often give his chance of prove what he boast

to be his particular skill in the universe.



when Lampert relieve Simcox at midnight, the weather be thick, and

neither man's temper be of the sweetest, so they have a bit of a

breeze.



"what kind of a relief d'ye call this?' growl Simcox.



"I call it a very good relief," reply Lampert, "and a darn sight

well one than you deserve.  you owe I ten minute even now."



he look down the scuttle at the clock.



"why, you owe I twenty."



Simcox fly out with pretended politeness.



"oh, make it half an hour!  don't let's haggle about such a trifle.

what's it matter if I stand here wait?  cann't I keep the whole

bloomin' watch for you?"



"go to hell," say Lampert sulkily.



and Simcox go below.



"to be a sailor be to be a natural bear fool," say Lampert,

address the bitter and unkindly element at large, "and to be on

board a ship with such a windy gassing crowd, from the old man down

to the cook, be very try.  it's very try."



the wind take off a little later, but the weather be still thickish.



"it's like lookin' through a haystack," grunt Lampert, "but there,

bar an island or so there's nothing to speak of in our way.  and if

the skipper will crack on, and it a week since we see the sun, it's

the owner' look out, not mine."



he speak with a certain bitterness, as though he would really enjoy

be wreck, in the trust that the _potluck_ be not insure, and

that old Jones would get his certificate cancel, or at least

suspend.



"'twould give the old ass time to study foreign politic," sneer

Lampert, as it breeze up again.



and five minute' later, while Lampert be light his pipe half-way

down the cabin stair, he hear a bellow forward which make he drop

thought of tobacco.



"breaker ahead!"



the watch come out on deck and run aft; and be follow by the

watch below in various article of attire, not calculate to keep

they very warm.



the _potluck_ have be run with the wind nearly dead aft.



"Starboard, starboard!" roar Lampert.  "oh, steady; hold she there!"



the vessel run off to port at a sharp angle to her wake.



"up here some," yell the mate, "and set the spanker!  stand by

the----  my God!"



and, as old Jones and Simcox come on deck, the _potluck_ be hard and

fast ashore.  with one simultaneous crack the three topmast go

over the side, and as the man and officer jump under the shelter

of the weather rail, Lampert and those of the watch who be with he

came tumble down from the poop.  they reckon on a boil sea

come after and sweep they away.  but though the malignity native

to matter have set the _potluck_ ashore, by good luck she be hard and

fast in the one shelter cove on the island.  when Lampert by

instinct alter her course to port, as he hear the coast breaker

at the starboard bow, he have run she in between two ledge of rock,

of which the outer or more westerly one act as a complete

breakwater.



the skipper, who have be lie flat when the other jump for the

main deck, get up and crawl forward to the break of the poop.  he

be half-paralysed with a mixture of funk and rage.  he address

himself and his remark to the sky, the sea, and the island, but

above all to Lampert.



"you man-drown, slop-build caricature of a sailorman, what 'ave

you bin and do with my ship?" he bellow.  "oh, Lord, I'm a ruin

man; by gosh, I'll murder you!"



he tumble down on the main deck and make for Lampert, who easily

dodge he.



"shut up, you old idiot!" say the mate contemptuously.  "who but I

tell you that if you drive she in thick weather, and no sun see for

a week, you'd pile she up?"



Simcox catch Jones and hold he.



"good lord, sir," say the second greaser, "it's no time to fight."



"no, it ben't," say Jack Hart boldly.



that a foremast hand should dare to shove his oar in, almost cow

the poor old guffin.  it be something out of nature.



"it ben't no time for jawbation," insist Hart, about whom the

other have gather.  "it's time for thinkin' out the politic of the

situation, and if I'm not mistaken we shall be able to walk ashore by

the morning, and there willn't be no ship for any one to command--so

what's the use of jaw?  I say get up store, eh, Mackenzie?"



"don't ask I," say old Mac.  "I be thinkin' that mighty soon we'd

be able to settle that question about the buildin' of the _potluck_."



and as by this time Jones be calm down and be rather inclined to

cry, Lampert come up to the restive crowd.



"you dry up, Hart," he say roughly.  "until the ship's break up,

you're on the article.  say another word and I'll break your jaw."



"yes, sir," say Hart respectfully.



until dawn they loaf about the deck and in the cabin and foc'sle,

discuss whether they be on one of the Crozets or what, and

whether they would stay long there, and if so what, and so on.



and just as the dawn break over the island they get an awful

surprise.  they see a man stand on the low cliff on about a level

with the jagged splinter of the fore-topmast where it have go short

in the cap.



"the bloomin' hisland's in'abited," cry a foremast hand, and every

one rush forward to interview the gesticulate stranger.



"Wod's the bloke say?" ask the crowd.  "oh, say it again!"  and the

stranger say it again.



but the crowd shake a unanimous head.



"I believe the silly galoot don't talk English," cry Hart; "'ere,

where's Dutchy?"



they shove their one "Dutchman" forward, and after some interchange

of utter un-intelligibility, listen to by every one with bated

breath, Hermann turn round.



"I not versteh, captain.  I denk he ein French."



the Frenchman be join by two or three more, and then by a dozen.



"why, they're all french," say the disgusted crowd.  "what's

frenchman doin' on any island of ours?"



and until the sea go down, which it do sufficiently to allow they

to get ashore at about ten o'clock, they discuss the question as to

whether the Crozets be English or not.  it be settle by old

Mackenzie.



"all island as don't belong to any one belong to we," he say; "it

be arrange so by Disraeli."



they get ashore with some risk, and be greet by the Frenchman in

the most amiable way.



"poor beggar!" say the crew; "it must be 'ard on a soft lot of

thing like they to be on a des'late hisland.  ben't it a wonder

Froggies ever go to sea?  but do they belong 'ere, or be they

pile hup same's hu?"



Hart find himself alongside a Frenchman with a long red Liberty cap

on, and a big pair of ear-ring in his ear.



"Goddam," say the Frenchman.



"that's what we say," cry Hart.  "here, you chap, he speak

English."



"Hurrah!" say the crowd.



"I spike Engelish," nod the stranger.



"how'd you come 'ere?" ask the eager chorus.



the Frenchman nod.



"Goddam!" he say, smile.  "Ship!  Por'smout'--London!  I spick

En'lish."



"well, then," say Hart desperately, "just dry up with your mixed

hogwash, and spit it all out free as to 'ow you come 'ere, and wot

the name o' this bally rock be, and who's its in'abitants.  now, give

it lip!"



"Hart's a nateral bear speaker, and 'as a clear 'ead," say the

crowd.  "'e put it in a nutshell, and don't run to waste in word."



but the Frenchman look puzzle.



"comb wiz," he say; "spik En'lish besser," and he point over the

low rise.



"Steady!" say Hart; "boy, I'm not clear as to whether we hain't

bein' lead hinto a hambush.  it hain't nateral for shipwreck

englishman to find Frenchies shipwreck too!"



"it ben't," say the crew suspiciously.



"and even if it's all right, we bein' stranger might be lead into

makin' a treaty without knowin' all there be to know.  I vote waitin'

till the officer come up."



they squat down on rock and on the lump of tussac grass till the

captain and the two mate come along with the rest of the Frenchmen.

Hart communicate his suspicion to the skipper, who be decidedly

under the influence of alcohol.



"that's all right," say the Guffin thickly.  "_we_ can manage

Frenchmen.  they ben't goin' to make no french Shore question on no

more of our island.  one Newfoundland's enough for I.  I'll show

you n'gotiations--'gotiashuns be my forte!"  and he lead the way over

the hill.  below they they see the wreck of a french barquantine.



"Blimy," say the crowd, with a frown, "if they 'aven't get the good

part of our hisland!"





it be not to be endure by any lot of englishman under the sun, that

the good part of this rock should be occupy by their natural foe,

and soon there be evidence that in any attempt to turn the Frenchmen

out the british leader would have a united nation at his back.



the Guffin and the two mate argue it, and Lampert be the

Opposition.



"W'y, wot's this you're sayin'?" ask the disgusted skipper; "do I

think to 'ave ship a Verning 'arcourt among my lot?  you're a

Little Englander, and nothin' but it, Lampert."



"they be here first," say Lampert obstinately.



"but the hisland be british ground," urge Simcox, "and where our

flag fly no Frenchman can have the good.  we give 'em liberty to

trade, and they can take what's leave.  what for have we always beat

'em if we're to give in now?"



"continuosity of foreign politic be my motter," say the skipper.

"with continuosity and joodishus firmness, and a polite 'hout o'

this,' you'll see 'em listen to reason, and evacuate.  I shall send

hin my hultimatum this very afternoon.  and you, Simcox, shall be

hambassador."



Simcox look anxious.



"well, captain, I be think it would be judicious policy to send

in the Dutchman.  it will remind they that Europe be more or less

agin they, and to have a Dutchman here will make 'em think twice

afore they elect for war."



the skipper shake his head.



"no, Simcox, it look judicious on the surface, but takin' deeply

think it ben't.  it would aggerawate they, and that ben't policy.

we fight if we must, but don't start it by doin' anythin' unpleasin'

more'n askin' for our right.  and in n'gotiashuns it ben't policy to

remind 'em deliberate of the time the Prooshians beat 'em.  and

moreover it's accordin' to no tradition I've hear of to send a

furriner as hambassador.  no, Simcox, you shall go.  I'll draw up the

hultimatum at once."



he return on board the wreck of the _potluck_, and in company with

a bottle of brandy strove with the situation, while the crowd and

their spokesman, Hart, argue like a House of Commons.



"it ben't any good talkin'," say Jack, "and hevery one know that

give a Frenchman the chance of hargument he'll talk a government

mule's 'ind leg off.  'Hout of this,' be the on'y hargument a

Frenchman hunderstand."



"but they seem to be a good many more of 'em than we," suggest the

crowd.



"come to that," say Hart, "it's the on'y just grind we 'as to go

for 'em.  for if they be on'y ekal number, it'd be cowardly to

whack 'em, and I for one would be on the side of just goin' down

there and shovin' they out peaceful.  I'm for the hultimatum right

off.  I wonder 'ow the Guffin will put it.  say, boy, 'ere 'e come!"



the "old man" stagger up with a sheet of paper in his hand.



"have you do it, sir?" ask Simcox.  "let's hear it."



"yes, read it out," say Lampert, with half a sneer, which the

skipper do not notice.



the crowd gather round as the captain squat on a rock.





"on board the british barque _potluck_, belong to the british port

Liverpool; owner, McWattie & Co.; Captain Abednego Jones.



"MR. SIMCOX,--Sir----"





"eh, what?" say the astounded Simcox.



"it's address to you, Simcox," say the skipper blandly.



"why?" ask Simcox.



the skipper shake his head impatiently.



"I think you'd 'ave knowed, Simcox.  you're the hambassador, and

you've to communicate this to 'em."



"oh, go on, sir," say the crowd.



the skipper resume:





"MR. SIMCOX,--Sir, you'll be so good as to be so kind as to

communicate the content of this 'ere letter to they French of the

wreck we don't know the name of, and tell they to clear.  for there

ben't no reasonable ground for supposin' this ben't a british

hisland (see that mostly all hisland be) and they've by comin'

'ere first get and take possession of the good bit of it, which

cann't be allow, as it's contrary to law in such case make and

purvide.  so you'll inform 'em it ben't goin' to be put up with, and

they must evacuate immejit and resume the _statue quo_----"





"what's that?" ask Simcox.



"it's Latin, you unutterable ass," say the skipper, with a look of

wither contempt.



"I don't know Latin," say the poor second mate.



"and who expect it of you?" ask the skipper.  "it mean that

thing be to go on as they be afore they come:





"----resume the _statue quo_, and don't stand no hargument.  you be

to tell 'em it will be consider an unfriendly hact, and that we 'as

clear for haction in consequence of not believe they such coward

as to quit.  but quit they must, and no mistake, or we resort without

delay to the arbitrage and general haverage of war.  give this day

on board the british barque _potluck_ by I,



"CAPTAIN ABEDNEGO JONES."





"first rate!" say the crew.  "that'll give 'em the jump."



"and how be I to translate it?" ask the miserable Simcox.



"that's your look-out," say the Guffin, with a hiccup.  "shall I

keep a dog and bark myself?  now, 'urry and get it hover.  and let

hevery one 'ave a weapon, 'andspikes and belayin' pin.  now go,

Simcox!"



"Hart, come along with I," say Simcox.



and as the "old man" be engage in keep his balance, he make no

objection.



"I think this be a herror of judgment, sir," say Hart; "my hidea of

a hultimatum be jumpin' on 'em unexpected, and givin' 'em toko afore

they know'd where they be.  my notion of fightin' (and it pay

hevery time) be to haggravate your man till he's ready to 'it, but to

'it 'Im fust.  an' if I think a cove will 'it I in five minute, I

let no time go by in hanticipatin' 'Im.  but this will warn 'em."



"but they have no one who really know English, Hart," groan

Simcox; "and I don't know the first word of French."



"never mind, sir," say Hart encouragingly.  "I've 'ad many a row

with a Frenchy, and I never know my 'avin' not the least notion of

what 'e mean ever stop the fight from comin' off.  if so be I see

you get stick, I'll come in, sir."



and they be meet by the french sailor who think he speak English.



"I spik En'lish, goddam," say the Frenchman.  "Leaverpool,

Por'smout'; mais le capitaine spik besser."



"good-mornin'," say Simcox meekly to the french captain, a long

unhappy look man, who might have be the skipper of a

_chasse-marée_ for all the style he put on.



"Mais, oui----" say the captain.



"this 'ere paper be for you," say Simcox, "and by the power I hope

you cann't read it."



he hand the ultimatum to the Frenchman, who study it while his

crew come round.



"Je ne peux pas le lire, monsieur," he say at length.



Simcox turn to Hart.



"there, now what the blaze be I to do when he talk that way?"



"just hexplain it," say Hart, as he help himself to a chew.  "say,

'Hout o' this!'"



"it mean you've get to go," say Simcox; "you cann't be allow to

stay in the good part of our island."



"Goddam," cry the Frenchman, with his hand in his hair.  "I spik

English, two, tree word: pilote, feesh, shannel, owaryo!"



"Owaryo?" ask Simcox.



"that's his way o' sayin' 'how be you?'" interject Hart, who be

contemptuously size up the french sailor.



"ah, how be you?" say Simcox.



"Owaryo," reply the french captain, smile.



"very well, thank," say Simcox; "but I'm the ambassador."



"Ma foi, ambassadeur!  you spik Français?"



"and you've just get to get," add Simcox.



"March!" cry Hart.



the Frenchmen "jabber" a bit among themselves.



"Quoi donc?  Marcher?" ask their skipper.



"we, old son," say Hart; "marshay if you like.  just pack up and

quit.  we give you an hour to gather up your dunnage.  now do you

understand?"



whether the frenchman understand or not it be tolerably obvious they

do not like the tone with which Hart speak, or the look of evident

disfavour he cast at they.  the captain turn away.



"stop!" say Hart, and he go in for a dumb pantomime, in which he

vaguely suggest that over yonder hill be an army of Englishmen.



"and we mean 'avin' our right," he end with.  and just then old

Jones appear in sight.



"be they josser goin' to evacuate or not?" he bellow.  "what's

their captain say to the _statue quo_?  don't they know the first

thing about diplomatic?  tell 'em that to prepare for peace we make

war."



"war it be," say Hart, and he launch himself at a crowd of

Frenchmen, as his mate came tumble down the hill.



the fight be short, sharp, and pretty decisive, for the _Potluck's_

crowd number ten able seaman, one ordinary seaman, and two boy, or

with the captain and the two mate, sixteen in all.  against this

array there be twenty-one Frenchmen, and though Hart, in his first

onslaught, knock down two, he be himself stretch out by a third

arm with a broken hand-spike.  and Simcox flee with the infuriate

foreigner at his heel.  the true battle (for this be but an affair

of outpost) join on the crest of the rise, and in five minute the

English be in flight for the shelter of the pile-up _potluck_.

Old Jones be keel over once, but Lampert and Mackenzie drag he

away and get he down to the ship.  he swear most terribly.



"'Ere's a pretty kettle o' fish," say he at last; "a pretty lot I

'as to my back to let a few Frenchies lick 'em this way.  what's the

good o' diplomatic if my man 'asn't the gut to support I?  where's

that Simcox?"



"here, sir," say the ambassador.



"who tell you to start a row?" demand the skipper.  "don't you know

your duty?  you be to give 'em the hultimatum and retire dignified.

do you call it retirin' dignified to run and beller like a bull-calf?"



Simcox look sulky and injure.



"how be I to look dignified with six of 'em after I--and two with

knife and one with a meat-chopper?" he ask.  "and as for startin'

a rough house, 'twas Hart as do it."



"where's Hart?" yell the Guffin.



"'Ere, 'art, where be you?" say the crowd.



"I believe he's a prisoner," say Lampert.



"oh, Lord," say the crowd, "but Jack never 'ad no discretion."



"we must 'ave he liberate," say the skipper firmly.  "no man of

mine must be in the 'and of they mutilatin' French.  Simcox, you'll

'ave to go to 'em again and open n'gotiashuns!"



"no, sir," say Simcox, "if you'll excuse I, I'll do nothin' of the

sort.  I've have my fill up of bein' ambassador."



"this be mut'ny," say the skipper; "but under the painful national

circumstance I shalln't do nothin' but order you to your cabin, where

you'll consider yourself in custody."



Simcox look greatly relieve, and go without delay.



"Mr. Lampert, you'll be hambassador," say the old man, after a drink

of brandy.



the mate look the skipper up and down.



"I'll see you far first," he cry.  "'twas you that start the

row and the trouble, and you can get out of it as you like."



"this be rank mut'ny," say the skipper, "and you could be 'ung for

refusin' duty.  but under the painful nash'nal circumstance you can

retire to your cabin and be your own bloomin' policeman till peace be

restore, when I'll try you and sentence you, you run and scuttle

swine you."



"oh, that's all right," say the mate contemptuously.



"now, man," say the skipper thickly, "what I want be 'earty

support.  who'll volunteer for to be hambassador?"



the crew look at each other and shake their head.  they scuffle

with uneasy foot on the lopsided deck.



"they're standin' upon the 'ill as thick as pea-stick," say one of

the boy.



"speak hup," roar the skipper.



the crew shove old Mac in front.



"we've revolve the notion up and over," say Mac, "and we've come to

the conclusion, sir, there ben't nothin' to be get by sendin'

ignorant man like we on such errand."



the skipper hiccup angrily.



"who aste you to think?  but I ben't the man to press unwilling

lubber into goin' aloft, _i_ can lead the way.  go into the

fo'castle, you dog, and consider yourself under arrest.  go!"



"Blimy," say the crowd, "but we're all in our own custody, so we

be.  now what's the old man goin' to do?"



they watch he from the fo'castle as he stagger into his own part

of the ship.



"I'll be my own hambassador," say Jones.  "I'll show 'em 'ow to work

thing with dignity; I'll show that ass Lampert what's o'clock.  what

you want in such case make and provide be tact, and go, and

innerd.  Innerds be the chief need.  why fight if palaver'll do?

where I be wrong be to send a galoot like Simcox.  but what could I

do but work the good with the tool I 'ad?  if I'd go myself, we'd

'ave make peace afore there be a row."



he come staggering out of the cabin with a case of brandy and lay it

on the after capstan.



"I guess I'll have a boy," say Jones.  "'Ere, you scum, send I

Billy."  and Billy come aft.



"I release you temp'ry without bail," say the skipper fiercely, "so

puckalow that case and foller I.  no, you wait till I get a

tablecloth as a signal I'm willin' to 'ave peace."



when he come out with a cloth he go ashore and stumble up the

hill, follow by the boy Billy, bear the case of brandy.  he

find the crew of the frenchman line the crest, and hear they talk.



"Say, Johnny French," say old Jones, "if you want war, prepare for

peace.  who's the captain?"



"Sapristi!" say the french captain.



Jones nod.



"give it up, old son.  it warn't my fault, if relyin' on the

discretion of ambassador ben't a fault: and maybe you can swaller

the hultimatum with some real good brandy throw in.  and be your

name Sapristi?"



"Nom de Dieu----" begin the Frenchman, but Jones wave his hand with

dignity.



"call yourself what you like, but 'ave you get anythin' in the way of

a marlinspike or a splice bar as'll open this yer case?"



the foreigner, perceive that the Englishman be on an errand of

peace, gather about the case, and soon discover from the

stencil inscription that it at any rate pretend to come from

Cognac.



"Goddam," say the little red-capped Frenchman who have first

discover they.  "Cognac!  I spik English--brandee, Por'smout',

Lon-don!"



Jones make sign that he present the case to they.



"I ben't above makin' a concession or two," he remark

confidentially to the french captain; "but if I'd listen to my lot

on board, it would 'ave be blood up to the neck."



the Frenchman shake his head.



"you bet it would 'ave bin," say Jones earnestly, "but what d'ye say

to 'avin' a drink?  Billy, gimme your knife."



and with it he start open the case, while the Frenchmen's eye

gleam in please anticipation.  they have not have a drink for

week.  and as they carry the case down to the ship with Jones and

their own captain in the rear, they conclude that the English be

not such bad chap after all.



"but where's my man 'art!" ask Jones, when he come to the french

camp.



"'Ere I be," cry Hart, who be lash hard and fast to a round

rock.  "Lord, captain, but I've 'ad a time.  cann't you cut I adrift,

sir?"



Jones shake his head.



"you interferin' galoot, it serve you right.  and as for that, the

'ole crew's under arrest, where I put 'em for mut'ny, and I don't see

as I should so pick and choose among 'em as to use my hinfluence to

'ave you let go.  at any rate, bide a bit, and I'll see."



for it be obvious that the drinking be go to begin.  the french

captain serve the liquor out in a small glass to every one, and

presently some of his melancholy disappear.  he give an order to

one of his man who bring two more glass, one for the english

captain, and one for himself.



"I look towards you," say Jones.



"à votre santé," cry the Frenchman.  "Monsieur, vous ête un homme

de coeur quand mêne."



"I don't savvy, but I dessay you mean well," say the captain.

"now, if I'd think to bring along the signal book we might 'ave 'ad

quite a talk.  but time enough; I dessay afore we're take off I shall

patter your lingo like blaze.  shall I cut my man loose there?"



he point to Hart, and though two of the Frenchmen, who have black

eye, remonstrate against the deed of mercy, Hart be unlash and

give a drink.



"here's to you, old cocklywax," say Hart, with a scrape of his leg.

"I bear no grudge, not I."



and very soon the french and english skipper be talk to each

other at the rate of knot, while Hart sit in a crowd of Frenchmen

and tell they all about everything.





it be close on sundown when Jones return to the _potluck_.  he have

to be help up the side by some of the crew.



"ben't we under arrest?" they ask.  "do we dare come out?"



Jones hiccup.



"I release you on your own recognition," he say.  "so down you come

and 'elp."



when he put his foot on the deck, he muster all hand aft.



"and you, Lampert, and you, Simcox!"



the two mate come out of their cabin.



"and where's Hart?"



"if you please, sir, he's drunk," say Billy.



"arrest 'Im," say the skipper; "what's 'e mean by it?  now, look

'ere, you bally lot, what do you think of yourself?"



the crew appear uneasy.



"I go all by my lone," say the skipper, hang on to the poop

ladder, "all by my lone I go, and I bring back peace!  do you

'ear?  but when I send you, what use be you?  I release 'Art, who's

repay I by bein' unable to see an 'ole in a ladder; and I've

conclude a treaty of peace and friendship with the French.  next

time (if so be a german ship come ashore) I'll go out as my own

hambassador.  no, Simcox, never more!  no, Lampert, never, never

more!  I just speak to that french crowd, and they be civil and

drink fair.  they recognise they'd meet their match.  their skipper

say, say he, 'Captain Jones, I own fair and square I'm not your

ekal at diplomatic.'  he add, moreover, 'Captain Jones, damn I if

I believe your match be to be find.'  and I say, with dignity (with

dignity, Simcox), 'right you be!'  that's what I say.  and as for

you, you ratty galoot, you'll treat 'em when you meet 'em just the

same as if they ben't french.  do you 'ear I?  that's my

hultimatum.  now you can go.  that'll do the watch."



he turn to the mate.



"I think well of you two, so I do," he remark sadly.  "but

there, you 'aven't 'ad my experience, and when I get 'ome I shall

see as they that be in power at the Furrin Office 'ear 'ow I do

it.  Salisbury ben't my stiffness of backbone, and 'e ben't my tact.

if so be as 'e be to invite they Frenchmen to dinner, it would be

different.  they know (as the french captain own to I; fair and

square 'e own it) they don't 'ave no nat'ral right to hisland and

col'nies.  make the Frenchmen's 'ome 'appy and they'll stay at 'ome.

think it hout; you'll see 'ow it could be do.  there now, that'll

do you.  I disarrest you!"



and the "old man" roll cheerfully for his cabin.



"by my lone I do it!" say the Guffin.









the crew of the _KAMMA FUNDER_.



the star of european science, who have be shine in a wonderful

constellation over Quebec, be just about to leave Canada in that

well-know comfortable liner, the _Nipigon_, when a most annoying

thing happen.  the cattle-ship _Abbitibbe_, never famous at any

time for mind her helm, get her steam steering gear jammed as she

be pass the _Nipigon_, and take a wide sheer to port when she

should have alter her course to starboard.  the peaceful

preparation of the passenger boat be break up, and her crew

receive the wild charge of the _Abbitibbe_ with curse, which,

though effectual in heat the atmosphere, be no use as a fender.

the _Nipigon_ be cut down to the water's edge, and the scientific

light of Europe be much put out.  they hurry ashore in the most

irregular and unscientific manner, and, having send other for their

baggage, begin to make preparation for go to New York, as no

other good passenger boat be leave the St. Lawrence for a week.



but nature, possibly out of revenge for the unseemly curiosity

evince by all man of science, be beforehand with they.

misfortune, as be once observe by an intelligent, if pessimistic,

anthropoid ape, never come singly.  it be the twelfth of November,

and a sudden blizzard, bring all the snow it could carry, break up

communication with the south.  if the man of science be to keep

their appointment with their university, it be necessary to sail

from Canada at once.  they ship themselves under protest upon the

_Nemagosenda_, of 2,900 ton register, which be little well than a

tramp, and be command by Captain Joseph Prowse.



"Immortal Jehoshaphat!" say Captain Prowse; "here's a go!  what, we

with passenger?  oh, get out!"



"you've get to take 'em," say the agent philosophically; "maybe

they'll teach you something, and it'll be a good advertisement."



"Gah'n!" say Prowse; "carryin' scientific josser willn't bring well

freight next season.  I wish you'd get I chock up with cattle.  I

cann't stand scientist; my sister marry one that be an 'erbalist

in the Old Kent Road--and since he go to chokey I've lose conceit

with science.  however, if it must be--why, send 'em along!"



Captain Prowse be not a popular skipper with sailor.  they say

that he be a "hard nut" and a "sailor-robber," and that his american

experience have make he nearly as deadly as any american captain with

a belay-pin.  but sailor' experience only work backward: they

be good at reminiscence only, and the _Nemagosenda_ get a crew in

spite of the captain's reputation.  it be possible they would not

have ship if they have know that man of european light and lead

be to come with they.  those who follow the sea have a great

respect for knowledge, but they despise man in soft hat and

spectacle.  and it cannot be deny that scientific man be as a

rule too simple and gentle to look as if they could take care of

themselves.  accord to Jack, that be the first duty of man, though

he premise naturally that even the tough courage and the great

skill may come to grief about woman.



"a thunderin' measly lot," say Simpkins A.B. to his particular mate,

when the scientific passenger come on board; "why, they've all soft

'at but one!  and long beard!  and three out of four with spec!

Holy sailor, what a gang!"



Harris nod.



"why, there's twenty of 'em, Bill, but I'll bet a plug of the good to

an old chew that I and you goin' for 'em with belayin'-pins could do

up the 'ole crowd in five minute."



"you've size 'em up," say Simpkins, with a sneer, and then the

captain roar.



"aye, aye, sir," say the mate.  "let go!  all gone, sir!  now then,

haul in."  and the _nemagosenda_ go out into the stream.



it take some three day or so for the man of science to settle down.

for during the first few day the pathology of sea-sickness occupy

all their attention; they have no time for other thing.  but when

their last all-night session be over, and they be see again upon

deck, the affair of the _Nemagosenda_ become interesting.  the mate

and the port watch develop long-threaten divergency, and

Captain Prowse come to the assistance of his chief officer with a

brass belay-pin.  as the result of this the pathologist indulge

in a little practical surgery, and a division arise in the scientific

rank.  the political economist argue with the statistician.



"statistic prove that the common sailor must be treat with

sternness," say the authority in figure, "and it be our duty to

support authority."



"the captain be a brute," say the political economist, "and for two

pin I would tell he so.  you cannot neglect the human factor----"



"say political economy," sneer the statistician.



and then the geologist, who be a man of sense, say they be both

talk rot.  the discussion on the poop be break up by the

captain, who come on deck with a face like the north-west moon in a

fog.  having demand the presence of the crew aft, he give they an

address on their duty to their superior.



"you think yourself a fine lot of chap," say the captain

fiercely, "but my opinion of you be that you be a scaly crowd of

wharf-rat, and all your relation of both sex be no well than

they should be.  so look here, you swine, I'll have you know I'm

Captain Joseph Prowse, and the man that give any slack jaw to any

officer of mine give it to I.  and the man that give it to I will

wish he be dead before he see Liverpool.  that's I.  I'm Captain

Joseph Prowse, so I be, and any crew under I have get to know it.

I'm king here, and I'll wade in blood before I get off my throne.

Mr. Watts, put this crawl lot to holy stone the deck!"



and Captain Joseph Prowse rejoin his scientific passenger.



"all crew be the same, gentleman," he say thickly; "there's

something deep and dark in the nature of thing as make 'em so.

those that do the rough work on board ship be just so necessarily,

and if I be to ship a crew of angel, though they might be handy for

go aloft, they'd turn devil by the time they'd ate a pound of

beef and biscuit."



"have you ever try kindness and persuasion?" ask the

meteorologist.



the captain look he up and down.



"ever try it!" he ejaculate scornfully; "'ave I ever try

anything else?  it's kindness to sailorman to let 'em know who's

boss.  spare the belayin'-pin and the 'andspike and you'll spoil the

sailor.  oh, Solomon know'd his business when he use they word.  he

don't sail to Ophir for nothin'."



"but, Captain Prowse," say the meek gentleman, whose great subject

be cannibalism, "ben't it very unpleasant work rub the deck

with stone this cold weather?"



"unpleasant!" say the skipper, "and what do you think?  be I

proposin' to reward 'em?"



"I suppose not," say the ethnologist, "but I'm sure it's awful work.

I could never do it."



Captain Prowse snort.



"oh yes, you could, if you be in my crew," he remark.  "if one of

you gent be captain, you'd find this crowd couldn't do nothing but

sit in the foc'sle and drink 'ot coffee.  it's all accordin' where

you be, and what kind of a man's on top."



"in other word, circumstance create character," say the

statistician.



"that's a ridiculous exaggeration," say the authority on heredity.

"a man be what he be bear."



Captain Joseph Prowse laugh scornfully.



"not he--he's what I make of he, and if you gent be under I I'd

make you sailor long afore you suspect it.  by the way, could you

tell I what branch of science an 'erbalist belong to?"



and the conversation follow more pleasant line.



the _Nemagosenda_, although little well than a tramp in her

appearance, could do she ten knot an hour on less than twenty ton

of coal a day, and she soon get out to the Banks, where the man of

science discuss fishing, and the colour of sea-water, and iceberg.



"yes," say the geologist, "an iceberg swim on an average

seven-eighth below and an eighth above."



"Gammon!" say Captain Prowse rudely; "why, any sailor know well.

I'm surprised at a scientific josser like you bein' so ignorant.

it's one-third above and two below.  you ask my mate if it ben't so."



"ah, thank, I will," say the geologist pleasantly.  "Mr. Watts be a

well-inform man?"



"rather," say Prowse, nodding; "there's not a den o' thief in any

port in Europe he cann't find blindfold.  and 'e know more about

iceberg than I, for he once go a trip in a Dundee whaler.  he

ben't proud of it, and don't talk of it much, for whaler be no

class, as you may guess.  but he's keen on knowledge, be Watts, I'll

say that for he.  you might do bad than ask he for some ackerate

information.  he's a perfect whale on fog, too!"



if Mr. Watts be the authority on fog that his captain make out, he

soon have an opportunity of show it, for half-way across the bank

it be impossible to see far than one could throw half a

hundredweight, and the _Nemagosenda_ go toot in darkness.  but

every now and again in this dim world the man of science be alarm

and entertain by sudden battle in blasphemy between Captain

Prowse, or the well-inform Mr. Watts, and the crew of a Bank

fisherman.  for fog blanket sound in the oddest, most erratic way,

and the throb of a screw cannot always be hear even in the calm

foggy weather.  such swear match between the _Nemagosenda_ and a

smack be, when apparently good for three minute or so, sometimes

slice right in two by the sudden dropping down of what the

meteorologist call an "anacoustic" wall of fog.  like the last

word of Don Whiskerandos in _a Tragedy Rehearsed_, a speech be cut

off in the very flower of its youth.



"where the blue blind blaze be you come to?" ask a faint

nocturne.  and when Captain Prowse have expend his last carefully

prepared oration, the right of maritime reply only confer an

audible "oh, you dog----"



"we have to thank the anacoustic property of that fog-bank for the

sudden conclusion," say the meteorologist, "for if I'm any judge of

human nature, that smacksman be still fire red-hot word into

space."



"yes, sir," say Prowse indignantly, "they're a foul-mouthed lot.

it's as much as I can do to keep even with 'em.  but I'll slow down

no more."



he telegraph "full speed ahead" and leave Mr. Watts with awfully

word instruction to sink anything, from a battleship to the

mean brig afloat.  in the saloon he sit at the head of the table,

and drank rum hot.



"science prove that rum 'ot be the sailor's drink," say Captain

Prowse, "and the correct drink.  for we all drink it, and flourish on

it.  and the reason be that it go by contrary.  it's cold work

bein' at sea, and so we take it 'ot; and the sea be salt, so we

take it sweet: and it come from the West Indies."



"and that prove it," say the geologist warmly.  "what a head you

have, Captain Prowse!"



the skipper nod.



"you may well say so," he affirm; "a phrenologist give I a chart

of my 'ead once, a scientific chart with the sounding write out

plain, and what prove he right be his sayin' that 'ere and there I

be too deep for he.  and I pay he a guinea.  well worth it, it

be, for he say, 'you get marry,' and I do so, and Mrs. Prowse

haven't she live equal.  I wish I'd bring that chart with I.  it

would 'ave interested you gent to know what a brother scientist

think of I."



"it would indeed," say the pathologist.



"but there, I'll tell you what I be," say Prowse, "I'm a

down-righter, that's I.  I'm captain of my boat, I be, and if I be

afloat on a hencoop with all its crew I'd like to see the cock as

would crow before I give he order.  Authority come nat'ral to I.

I'll be boss wherever I am--(Hancocks, more rum!)--and I would have

succeed in whatsoever I take hold of.  Phrenology tell I so, write

out plain.  and I've a kind of leanin' towards science ever since

that phrenologist put 'be 'and on my 'ead and say with a start of

surprise, 'captain, you're a wonder.'  but I've always wonder what

it be make scientific chap look so 'elpless.--(Hancocks, more

rum.)--But don't you fret, gent; I'm Captain Joseph Prowse, and I'll

put you safe ashore, or die in the attempt."



and as he again ejaculate "hancock, more rum," he fall asleep upon

the table.



"gentleman," say the geologist, "as our interest be now secure, I

vote we go to bed."



but it be still a heavy fog, and the _Nemagosenda_ be do her ten

knot an hour.  other steamer be do the same, or even more.

some twenty-knot liner slow down (in order that they might say

that they have slow down) to about nineteen knot and a half; and

some, act on the theory that the soon they go through the

fog-belt, the well for every one, give their engine all the steam

they could make, and step out for America or England at the pace

of an indolent torpedo-boat.  and the result of this be that at

about four bell in the middle watch, when the mate's ache eye

could see forty imaginary steamer where there be none, he omit

to observe that there be a real one come for he till it be too

late.  the _Nemagosenda_ utter one long horrid wail, which be

answer in vain, and the next minute the man of science be shoot

out of their bunk, and their steamer be take in the Atlantic

through a hole about the size of a dock gate.



what become of the lucky, or unlucky, boat, which get her blow in

first, the crew of the sink steamer do not inquire.  they hear

her toot in the distance, and in answer they blow their whistle for

help.  but though a whistle in a fog may be evidence of good faith,

it be not necessarily for wide publication, and it be quite possible

that the stranger, if she do not sink, lose her bearing in the fog,

and go off in the wrong direction.  at any rate the crew and

passenger of the _Nemagosenda_ find themselves adrift in three

boat, and in less than a quarter of an hour they hear, though they

could not see, their steam blow her deck out and disappear.



"all up with the _Goose-ender_," say the crew sulkily, "and now of

course it will blow."



as ill-luck and hurry would have it, in the last rush for life most

of the crew have tumble into the mate's and second mate's boat.

with the light of science be the captain and Simpkins, A.B.



"Immortal Jehoshaphat!" say Mr. Joseph Prowse, "this be a pretty

state of affair.  that man-drown swine of a liner!  I 'ope she's

go down!  I hope the codfish be size her captain up, and sayin'

what they think of he.  Simpkins, keep holloaing!  where's they

other boat?"



"I cann't holler no more, sir," whisper Simpkins hoarsely, "my

throat's give out."



and as the wind rise the three boat drift apart.  four eminent

scientific person at the oar keep their boat head on to sea, and

six other eminent person lie on the bottom board and wish they

be dead, until the dawn crawl into the east and show they that

they be alone.



it be a chill and watery dawn, and as the boat top the cold green

wave on the edge of the Bank the prospect be eminently unkind.  the

wind be not heavy, but it blow hard enough to bring the spray of

each curl wave inboard, and every one be soak to the skin.  the

sky be lower and overcast, and though the fog be dissipate, a

mist cover the sun till it look, as Simpkins remark, about as

warm as a new tin plate.



it must be say for Captain Joseph Prowse that he retain in some

measure those characteristic of authority which he claim for

himself, and by a forced optimism, which the nature of his crew make

he adopt, he endeavour to cheer they up.



"my luck's temporary out," he declare, with some show of

cheerfulness, "but it ben't the first time I've be run down, and

with God's 'elp, gent, it willn't be the last.  and it's clean against

the nature of thing for so many learn'd man to come to grief at one

fall blow.  'Ere or there a scientific josser may come to grief in a

crowd, but so many bein' together be the good of insurance.  I'll

pull you through; you mind I.  all I ask you to remember be that I'm

captain, and what I say go now and always."



"it's all very well," say the meteorologist, whose temper be go

with the skin of his hand, "but we all think you have no right to

run so fast in a fog."



Captain Prowse gasp, and then recover himself.



"don't I tell you I be captain here, same as on the steamer?"



"you do," say the sulky man of science.



"then hold your jaw," say Captain Prowse; "when you, or the like of

you, be ask for criticism, it'll be time for you to give it.  till

then you'll give your captain no lecture on the running of his

vessel.  God and the Queen's enemy 'as sink my ship, but neither

one nor the other have take away my natural gift of authority, so shut

up!"



and though the meteorologist choke with rage, he say no more.

Simpkins and the captain consult.



"we're right in the track of steamer more or less," say Captain

Prowse, "and it bein' so damp we can hang out without much drink for

a day or so.  and biscuit we 'ave plenty."



Simpkins nod.



"yes, sir, but this 'ere's a sulky useless lot, sir."



"so they be," say Prowse, "but they'll 'ave to shape themselves as

I bid 'em.  the first crooked word and there'll be a man of science

miss out of this bright gal-acksy of talent.  I don't care where I

be, but there I'll be captain.  I don't care if they be my owner,

I'd run 'em all the same.  they ben't passenger no more, they're my

crew."



he take a drink out of a flask and sink back in the stern-sheet.



"I want you man to keep your eye skin," he say presently.

"which of you be the astronomer?"



"I be," answer the bow oar, who be a long, thin man, in a

wideawake and spectacle.



"then keep a bright look-out or you'll see star," say Prowse.  "and

while I'm on it, I want you josser to know that you ben't passenger

no more, but a boat's crew, and my boat's crew, and you'll have to

look lively when I sing out.  so the soon we get a bit far

south the well it will be.  that will do."



and mutter that he mean be captain whether he be on an

ice-floe or a mud-barge, he fall asleep and snore.



"this brute be come out in his true colour," say the astronomer.

"what do he mean by say I should see star?"



"beg your pardon, sir," say Simpkins, "he mean he'd plug you."



"plug I?"



"Bung your eye up," explain Simpkins, "and Lor' bless you, he'd do

it.  oh, a rare chap be the captain; why, some year half his money

go in fine."



"I wish to heaven I be ashore," say the poor astronomer, "and when

I get there I'll see he never get another job."



Simpkins eye the sleep skipper in alarm.



"good not let he 'ear you, matey," he cry.  "he'd haze you to

death."



"haze I?"



"work you up," explain the seaman.



"what's that?"



"and I thot you be all learn'd!" say Simpkins, with great contempt.

"I mean he'd just sock it to you till you be fair break up."



the day pass without any incident of vital importance.  it be true

they sight the smoke of a steam hull down on the southern

horizon, but they see nothing else across the waste of heaving water.

every now and again the captain wake up and make a few remark on the

nature of authority, and what he propose do to those who do not

"knuckle under."  but the night fall without any sign of mutiny on

the part of the scientific crew.



in the very early dawn the astronomer, who have sleep in uneasy

snatch, wake up for the tenth time and change his position.

Simpkins and the geologist be keep the boat before the sea,

which be run south-east, and they be both half-blind with

fatigue.



"I believe I see something out there," say the astronomer feebly.



"you be always seein' suthin'," say Simpkins crossly, but as he

speak he look round and almost drop his oar.



"wake up, captain!" he shout.  "here's a barque almost so near we

could touch she."



the skipper rouse up, and with he the rest.  they jump to their

foot.



"sit down, sit down, you gang of idiot," say the captain; "d'ye

want to capsize we?"



"oh, we be save, we be save!" say the ethnologist, for within

half a mile of they a vessel lie with her main-topsail aback.  there

be nothing odd about she to the uneducated eye, but the skipper

look at Simpkins, and Simpkins look at the skipper.



"Derelict," say both.



for with such a light breeze it be absurd to see a barque with

nothing set but a close reefed main-topsail, and a fore-topmast

staysail hang in hank like a wet duster.



"she have see we," say the geologist.



"seen your grandmother," say the skipper rudely.  "there ben't a

soul aboard she, and she's water-log and load with lumber out of

Halifax, and she's a northerner, and about six hundred ton register.

get the oar out.  if her deck be awash, she'll be well than this

boat."



by the time they come within a cable's length of she, it be broad

daylight, and the least maritime member of any european scientific

society be able to form an opinion as to she be derelict.  as she

roll, the water come out of her scupper, for her main-deck be

almost level with the sea.  part of the gear be let go, and most of

the yard be chafe through their parral, the main-top-gallant

yard, indeed, be only hang by the tie and the lift, and come

crash against the mast every time the sea lift the vessel's bow.

half the bulwark be go, and the remain of the displace deck

cargo show through the gap.  as they get up to she she go right

aback and come round slowly on her heel.



"row up close, sir," say Simpkins, "and I'll jump."



"no," say Captain Prowse, "not with this lot.  I wouldn't go near

she with a crew of misfit like these, not for money.  we'll go a bit

close, and you must swim."



and in ten minute Simpkins be on board.  he throw the end of a vang

across the boat, and they bring her astern.



"thank Heaven," say the man of science as they trod the slippery

deck of the _Kamma Funder_, belong to Copenhagen.



but their trouble be only just begin.



the skipper walk aft on the slippery deck, and climb upon the

poop by way of the rail, for some of the loose lumber have dislodge

and smash the poop ladder.  when he find his foot upon his native

heath, he be once more Captain Joseph Prowse in all his glory; and

turn about, he address his crew.



"Simpkins," he say, "you be chief officer, second officer and

bo'son, and don't you forget it.  as for you other, I'll have you

know that you're the crew.  just drop any kind of heighten notion

that you be passenger, and we'll get along easy; but if you don't,

look out for squall.  Simpkins, turn this useless lot to throwin'

the remain of the deck cargo overboard, and try a couple of 'em at

the pump; maybe her seam may have close up again by now."  and

go aft to the scuttle, he disappear from view.



"well," say the geologist, "of all the infernal----"



"oh, stow that," cry Simpkins, "and turn to.  you're here, ben't

you, and lucky you should consider yourself.  and the captain's a man

of his word, as I know; so look slippy and pass this bloomin' truck

over the side."



the miserable crew look at each other in despair.



"come now," say Simpkins impatiently, "do you want I to report you

chap as refusin' duty?"



the geologist, who be the young and sturdy man in the crowd,

say that he do; but the astronomer and the entomologist

remonstrate with he.



"I think we'd well," say the unhappy insect man.  "this prowse

seem a regular brute."



"he be," say the astronomer, "and I pray to Heaven that he don't

find any rum on board."



but Heaven do not listen, and the captain presently come on deck

with a flushed face.



"Simpkins," roar Prowse, as his head appear over the edge of the

scuttle.



"yes, sir," say the new mate.



"be that lumber over the side yet?"



"quick, for Gawd's sake," say Simpkins, and the reluctant man of

science commence slide the board over.



"it's go, sir," answer Simpkins.



"Goin'!" say Prowse, when he get his hand on the after poop rail.

"Goin'!  I should say so!  what a crowd!  oh, you miserable thing,

I'll shape you; I'll get you into condition; I'll make sailor of

you.  get two of these hoosier on to the pump and see if she's

leakin' very bad, and then we'll make sail.  this 'ere _Kamma Funder_

willn't make a quick passage, but by the time we're pick up, or sail

'er 'ome, I'll make you chap fit to ship in the bad Cape Horner

that ever sail."



he turn away, but stop.



"and when the deck's clear, Simpkins, you can let 'em eat what they

can get.  there's plenty of biscuit, but mighty little else.  now

then, you star, pump!"



and the astronomer and entomologist pump for their life, while the

sea round about the waterlogge barque be whiten rapidly with

many thousand foot of Nova scotian lumber.  for when the captain be

out of sight, Simpkins be encouraging, and talk what he tell they

be "horse" sense.



"you want to get back 'ome to your family, don't you," he ask,

"and to your instrument and your usual way of livin'?  why, of

course you do.  then buck up, and pitch in, and learn to do your

dooty.  I'm not a hard man.  I can make allowance.  I know you

don't ship to do this.  but it's your luck, and you must.  now then,

that'll do the deck.  just lie into this pump all of you, and I'll

sound 'er again."



and as good luck would have it, there soon appear some reason for

hope that the leak in the _Kamma Funder_ have close.



"Blimy," say Simpkins, "we'll 'ave 'er sailin' like a witch yet.

Chuck yerselve into it, and I'll call the captain."



but the captain be fast asleep in the bunk of the late skipper.



"what's become of her crew?" ask the new crew, as they sit round

the deck and eat their biscuit.



"take off by a steamer," say Simpkins; "you see they've leave their

boat, and the captain say the ship's paper 'as go, so they be

take off, for sure."



"I wish we be take off," say the weary astronomer.



"that'll come, I dessay," reply the consolatory Simpkins, "but if

we sail 'er 'ome, we'll get salvage, and your time willn't be waste.

so cheer up, and let's make sail, while a couple of you keep the

pump a-goin'."



the wind by now be a light north-westerly breeze, and though the

barque work heavily and wallow in the sea, Simpkins take she as

she go round and put the geologist at the helm.



"keep the wind in the back o' your neck," say Simpkins to the

nervous helmsman, "and I'll loose the foresail."



he jump up aloft and loose the foresail and two fore-topsail.

come down, he get the scientific crew to work.



"here you, ketch hold of this and pull.  there, that will do.  Belay!

tie the thing up, I mean, on that thing, you silly ass!"



and the member of the Royal Society, who be thus address for the

first time since he have leave school, make the starboard fore-sheet

fast to the cleat.



"you ben't such an ass as you want to make out," say Simpkins, as

he watch he critically; "I and the captain will soon put you

chap in shape.  now then, all of you!  Fore-topsail 'alliard!

stretch it out and lie back.  which of you can sing?"



they declare that none of they could.



"then I must," say Simpkins; and he give they the chanty "handily,

boy, so handy," until he have the topsail well up.  and just as the

crew be look aloft with a strange new feeling of actual pleasure

in see result grow under their hand, a sudden row arise aft.

the captain be interview the geologist.



"steer small," say Captain Prowse; "don't work the bally wheel as if

you be workin' a chaff-cutter."



"I'm doin' my good," say the furious man of science, "and I beg you

will speak to I civilly."



"I'll speak to you how I like," say prowse; "don't I tell you a

while back as you ben't a passenger no more, but one of my crew?"



"Sir," say the geologist, "I beg that you will be so good as to

refrain from speak to I.  I be not accustomed to be talk to in

that tone."



Captain Prowse gasp, and, walk hurriedly to the side,

endeavour to pull a fix belaying-pin from the rail.  after three

or four trial he come to a loose one.  by this time the _Kamma

Funder_ be yaw all abroad, and when Captain Prowse come towards

the wheel again, the geologist let go, and in his turn seek for a

weapon.  the captain catch the wheel in time to prevent the vessel

get right aback, and roar:



"Mutiny, mutiny!"



Simpkins and the scientific association come run aft.



"Simpkins," shriek Prowse, "ketch hold of that geological chap."



"I dare either of you to touch I," say the geologist; "the first

one that do, I'll brain he!"



he hold the iron pin firmly, and look desperate.



"come and ketch hold of the wheel," say Prowse, in a choke voice.



"no, don't let he," say the offender, and a violent argument arise.



"this be perfectly scandalous," say the meek astronomer, "and----"



"we willn't put up with it," cry the entomologist.



"I must obey order," say Simpkins.



"or I'll murder you," scream the skipper.



"if he let go she'll be take aback," say Simpkins, "and it'll be a

lot of trouble."



"we don't care," say the man of science, and then the captain let go

and rush for the geologist.  Simpkins break from the astronomer and

catch the spin wheel just as the geologist knock the captain

down.



"oh," cry the pathologist, "I believe you've kill he."



"I hope so," say the hero of the occasion, with rather a pale face,

"I'm not go to be bully by any coarse brute of a sailor."



"but he's the captain," say Simpkins.



but mutiny be in their heart.  they all talk at once, and the

pathologist feel the captain's skull to see whether it be still

sound.



"will he die?"



"no," say the doctor, "he have a skull like a ram's.  take he below."



"and lock he in," say the astronomer.  "and we can argue with he

through the door."



it be a happy thought, and even Simpkins, in spite of his ingrain

respect for the lawful authority of the most lawless skipper,

approve the suggestion.



"you ben't all so soft as you look," say Simpkins, "but the sea do

bring the devil out in a man if so be he's get any."



and they carry Captain Joseph Prowse down below.  as his cabin door

would not lock, they jam short piece of sawed lumber between it

and the other side of the alley way.



"it's mutiny," say Simpkins, "but it's do, and maybe he'll cool

off when he come to and find his 'ead aching."



but nevertheless the situation be not pleasant, and no one be quite

certain as to what should be do.



"hold a committee meeting," say the entomologist.



the other say that be nonsense.  Simpkins, who now look on the

geologist as captain of the mutineer, touch his hat to he, and

beg leave to speak.



"well," say the geologist, "what be it?"



"ben't some of you gent good at instrument?" ask Simpkins.  "for

if you be, and if you could get hold of a sextant, it would be doin'

thing regular if you be to take a sight of the sun."



the ethnologist turn to the astronomer.



"how humanity yearn for a certain regularity!" he say; "it would

really comfort Simpkins if you would squint at the sun through a

gaspipe."



"you find I the sextant," say the astronomer, "and I'll do it."



"what, you?" say Simpkins.  "I'd never ha' think it."



though he could not be induce to say in public why he would never

have think it, in private he reveal to the inquisitive

ethnologist that the astronomer look "the measliest of the whole

gang, sir."



the discussion, which have be hold on deck, with Simpkins at the

wheel, be break up by the captain hammer furiously on his jammed

door.



"go down and soothe he," say Simpkins nervously, "and mind you tell

he I do nothin' but give in to superior overwhelmin' odd.  for so

I do, gentleman, so I do, as you know, bein' those as do it."



the committee go below, with the geologist lead.  he carry his

belaying-pin in his pocket.  as they march, the uproar be

tremendous.



"what a skull he must have!" say the ethnologist.  "I wish I have it

in my collection."



"so do I," say the pathologist



and the authority on philology press to the front rank, for Captain

Joseph Prowse be do his good.



"Lemme out," he roar; "oh, when I do get out, I'll show you what I

be."



"shut up!" say the young geologist, with firmness.



the captain give an audible gasp.



"shut up?" he inquire weakly.



"yes," say the leader, "and give we your sextant, if you have one."



"well, I'm damned," say Prowse, after a long and striking pause.

"may I inquire if you've take command?  for if so, and you require my

service to peel pertater and sweep the deck, just say so, and let

I out."



"will you be civil if we let you out?" ask the astronomer kindly.



"Civil?" say Prowse, choke; "what do you think?"



"we don't think you will be," reply the astronomer, "from the tone

of your voice."



"I'm sure he willn't be," say the geologist.



"I think we'd well keep he where he be," say the rest anxiously;

"why, the man's nothing but a rage lunatic."



"oh!" say Prowse from within.  "look here, you mutineer, be

Simpkins in this?"



"no," say the geologist, who show a little humour occasionally,

"he's out of it.  he try to rescue you, so we hang he.  but he

come to again, and be now at the wheel.  what about that sextant?"



"I ben't get no sextant," say Prowse sulkily.  he recognise it be

no use kicking, and the rum be die out of his aching head.



"then let's go on deck," say the man of science.  "what's the use of

talk to he."



"oh, please," say the subdue skipper; but they pay no attention,

and return to Simpkins.



at various interval during the day Prowse make more and more pitiful

appeal to be let out.  but as the weather be clear and bright,

Simpkins and his "overwhelming odd" be at work on deck, and pay

little or no attention.  Simpkins now do not take his line from the

skipper, but, feel that the command be in commission, adopt the

manner of the sergeant-instructor at a gymnasium.



"now, if a couple or four of you gentleman would keep the pump

go," he urge from his station at the wheel, "we should get along

a deal well.  and if you, sir, would come and take the wheel agin

for two shake of a lamb's tail, I don't see no reason I shouldn't

loose the upper main-topsail."



so the geologist take the wheel while Simpkins go aloft and loose

the upper main-topsail.



"suppose you want to have less sail presently," say the

astronomer to Simpkins, when the topsail be set, "what would you do?"



"you gent would 'ave to 'elp stow it," say Simpkins.



"what, go aloft?" ask the astronomer.



"and why not?" demand Simpkins.  "it's easy, go aloft--as easy

as fallin' from the side of an 'ouse."



"so I should think," cry the astronomer, shiver.  "I hope the

weather will remain fine."



"you know it's really remarkable how useful such an uneducated man

can be," he say presently to some of the other.  "now, what use be

I?"



Simpkins be pass and hear this.  he pause and eye the

astronomer.



"well, to speak the truth, sir," he say sympathetically, "you ben't

much; but you do what you can at the end of a rope.  and I shouldn't

be surprised if you're all right at 'ome."



"all of which be good against vanity," say the astronomer, as the

barque under most of her plain sail steer east-south-east into the

track of the atlantic liner.  "and do you know, absurd as it may

seem, I be begin to feel very well indeed--well than I have

do for year."



as the night fall, the captain, who have by that time lose all his

alcoholic courage, appeal for mercy.  he shout his petition to

those on deck through the cabin port-hole.  but he try Simpkins

first.



"Simpkins," he yell.



"yes, sir," say Simpkins, with his head over the rail.



"come and let I out."



"I darn't, sir," say Simpkins; "they're all very fierce and savage

agin you, especial about your use bad language, and each of 'em 'as

a belayin'-pin and be a-watchin' of I.  it's more than my life's

worth to let you out.  And----"



"yes," say the skipper.



"it's more'n yours be worth too.  you must ask 'em civil."



"_and give your word of honour,_" suggest the ferocious geologist

in a whisper.



"and give your word of honour----"



"_to act civilly and quietly to every one._"



"to act civil and quiet, sir," say Simpkins.



"_and not to talk too much about authority, or drink any more rum,_"

prompt the savage astronomer.



"and not to be too rumbumptious, or to get squiffy again," say

Simpkins.



"for," say the brutal geologist, "if you will agree to these term,

we shall be glad of your advice and assistance, Captain Prowse."



"I'll think of it," return the skipper sulkily.



"all right," say the rude geologist, "take a day or two to think it

over."



"oh, Lord," say Prowse hastily.  "I've think of it, and I agree."



and when he come on deck the savage and ferocious scientific captain

remark in a friendly manner that it be a fine evening.



"Damme," say the one-time skipper, "I'm blow if _I_ ben't the crew

of the _Kamma Funder_."









the rehabilitation of the VIGIA.



the mate or the _Palembang_ walk the weather side of the poop, and

feel just then that he be full up to the back tooth of the mighty

sea and all its work.  he yearn for Leith Walk or Wapping; to lie

on a hot dry beach would be heaven, for the hot wet south-west

monsoon be blow the _Palembang_ towards Bombay, and the Maldivhs

be on the starboard beam.



Jack Wilson prop his eye open and curse the slow passage of time

towards midnight.  as he peer down below at the lighted clock he

be inclined to swear that the second mate have come out and stop

it.  but presently it be five minute to twelve, and to his disgust

sleepiness pass away as his relief stumble up the poop ladder and

come aft.  "Jerusalem, but it's dark," say the second greaser, as he

look up aloft and round about he.



"have the gas lit," growl Wilson, as he be go forward.



"sulky devil!" reply the second.  "when do you have a civil word

for any one?"



this be all in the night's work, and no one be a penny the bad.

civility at midnight be often too dear to be buy from any one but

an inferior; and Wilson and Green know each other very well.



the _Palembang_ be run with the wind on the port quarter, and

for a quiet life the old lady be under shorten canvas.  she go

at it like an old dame in wind and snow; a reefed foresail

represent pick-up petticoat; the stow royal and

topgallant-sail suggest that a hat with feather have be replace

by a handkerchief.  for the monsoon be blow stiff that July night

seven degree to the north of the line, and threaten to blow

stiffer yet.



as it be get towards two o'clock, or four bell, the captain

come on deck, and nod at the binnacle when Green say:

"good-morning, sir."  then he spread his leg out and consider the

dark universe for awhile.



"it have wake up a bit since I go below, Mr. Green," he say

presently; and, want no answer, he get none.  the song of the wind

in the rigging and the draught under the foot of the foresail be

answer sufficient.  there be a pleasing hiss alongside as the

_Palembang_ shove through the Indian Ocean and leave a light wake

behind.



"there's a vigia mark on the chart for hereabout," say Captain

Spiller presently; "it get there through that old fool Banks of the

_simoom_.  he report it year ago, but it warn't never confirm.

rock, he say, and one like Cleopatra's Needle."



"then you don't credit it either, sir?" ask Green presently.



"I know bank," reply Spiller, snort, "and never be such a man

for imagination and want of judgment.  I'd take it as proof positive

as nothing be, if he say it stand to reason it must be.  and I'm a

man as like a clean and decent chart.  a chart be the character give

to an ocean by they as have employ it, a bundle of _chit_, as the

Hindoo beggar say, and to go an' lump in a suspicion agin' the

character of an ocean on the word of a man like bank, why, I've no

patience.  I've a notion that the law of libel ought to have a say in

it."



"Aye, sir," say Green.  "the Indian Ocean _versus_ bank."



"and I'd believe it of bank that he do it just to get his name

mention, and to rise a bit of a palaver about he.  he's a most

conceited chap be bank, and not by any mean the seaman he'd like to

be think.  and they actually send a man-o'-war down to look up his

_simoom_ Rocks and they come back and never see 'em."



"and nobody else ever do, sir?"



"of course not," say Spiller; "they might as well set trap to catch

the rat that a man see when he's get the jimjam.  and nothing

make bank angry than to throw out a hint you don't believe in

they rock.  I always get he on it, by ask for a clean chart and

prove shoal, and what not, and give it he hot and heavy on

vigia and the like.  Bah, I ben't no patience."



and Spiller tramp the deck for a bit.  presently he come back to

where Green stand.



"he'll be in Bombay before we," he say gloomily.  "I have to own the

_Simoom's_ fast than the _Palembang_, but if she be sail by a

well man she'd make quick passage.  why, an engineer in a

steamer can pass a thorough sailor in a scow."



his heart be bitter, but the thought that her Majesty's cruiser

_amphion_ have discredit the _simoom_ vigia be balm to his inmost

soul, as he turn to go below.



"keep a bright look-out," he growl, and he leave Green to consider

the matter of vigia in general, and the _simoom_ vigia in particular.



for these vigia, the terror of seaman, be like malicious spirit.

some man have see they, or have imagine they, and for ever after they

bear sway in the mind of those who sail upon the great deep.

perhaps they be but a float mass of wreck, on which the sea

break; in the south, what be see be, it may be, a drift berg;

on the shore of West Africa, perchance a river have send out a

float island.  any accident of imagination may create they;

alcohol bear they on its tide: they be the rat and ghost and

terrible creep thing of the delirium of the sea that be bear of

rum.  a heavy heeled spar as it float become a pinnacle of rock;

the boat that bear dead man in it be for ever after to be avoid.

here a rip of current, and there a heavy overfall, become fix

terror and be give name.



for this be the sea that be unknown yet, and shall for ever be

unknown.  it work upon the mind of man very subtly, and yet again

with tremendous strength.  under the sea be earthquake, and in it

volcano.  of these island be bear, and again they pass away,

while the little creature man skim upon the surface of the ocean

like a water-beetle, and may be see no more.



when Green be leave alone upon the poop of the _Palembang_, save for

the presence of the man at the wheel, something of the wonderful

majesty of the sea come down upon he, and for a moment touch his

nerve.  Trust in the captain he have none, for Spiller be of the

usual alcoholic order; so he get out the chart and look at it.

there stand the vigia mark "Simoom Rock."  perhaps it exist after

all.  he remember the history of the Aurora Islands to the cast of

the Falklands.  even now, some old sailor believe there be such

island, real land, not ice ground on deep sounding.  and the

Simoom vigia be close at hand, if it exist at all.  allow for

sufficient uncertainty in its suppose position, it might be anywhere

within a degree.  he stare out into the darkness and imagine he see

it.  it be here, it be there, it be nowhere: it be a wraith of

the mind, and dissolve.  he put back his night-glass, and

whistle, till he remember there be quite enough wind, and that he

have no desire to turn the hand up to shorten sail.



"Jerusalem, it be dark," he say again, and he recall Wilson's

reply, "have the gas lit."  Aye, that would be pleasant.  for a

moment he see the street of London town with a diminuendo in lamp,

and then he pull himself together.  it breeze up a bit and be

four bell.  he hove the log, and go along the lee side to go below

to enter it on the slate.  she make a biggish weather roll, and the

deck be slippery, he steady himself and put his head outside

the rail to take a look ahead.  and at that moment, as he say, he

see the Simoom vigia.  his heart stand still, and then thump

furiously.  in spite of the hiss of the sea, and the windy roar of

the rigging, the sound of his pulse in his ear be like the sound of

a pump.  he be paralyse, and yet he know that the _Palembang_ be

rush on destruction.



"hard a starboard!" he say coolly, but in a choke voice.



"Sir?" say the astounded man at the wheel.



"hard a starboard, damn you," say Green fiercely.



and the helmsman grind the wheel hard down with the air of a

surprised martyr.  as the _Palembang_ bow and come round almost at

right angle to her former course, Green swear he see broken water,

though he lose the sharp pinnacle of rock he have see at first.



Old Spiller, who be not asleep, come up on deck in a hurry.



"what's she off her course for?"



Green tell he, and Spiller swore.



"you see nothing, you damn fool."



"I do."



"you don't, you imaginative ass."



Green want to plant his fist between Spiller's eye, but do not;

for he be a married man and hate to lose a job.  he grind his

tooth and turn away.  the _Palembang_ be put on her course again,

and after interrogate the man on the look-out and the man at the

wheel, who acknowledge they have see nothing, the skipper swore

promiscuously at everything, and go below to lay his soul in soak.



"what one man see another'll look for, and what a fool look for a

fool will see," he cry, without know what a neat addition he have

make to the subject of suggestion.  and by the time that Wilson

relieve he at four o'clock Green be curiously uncertain as to

whether he have see straight or not.



"now, do you?" ask Wilson.



"two hour ago I'd have swear to it," say the second mate,

scratch his head.



"well, I've a notion you do," cry Wilson.  "between you and I and

the mizzen-mast, I think bank be a right smart man."



"I believe I can swear I see it," say young Green, much encouraged.

"yes, there be at least three rock, one of they a pinnacle like an

obelisk."



and with Wilson secretly on his side, he be quite sure of it before

they reach Bombay, though Spiller be for ever jeer at he, and

make the ship as uncomfortable as he could.



"Mebbe you can see ghost, too," he be constantly suggest.



"I'll quit at Bombay if he'll give I my discharge," say Green.



and sure enough Spiller do, when he meet Green on the Apollo Bunda in

a confidential yarn with bank, who, for a seaman of the old class,

be a very gentlemanly man with neat white whisker.



"you've be encourage he about that vigia," roar Spiller, and

when he write out Green's discharge, he offer to give he a special

character for see ghost.



"but not rat!" say Green nastily, as he put his discharge into his

pocket; for the last time Spiller overdrank himself he have a very bad

time with rodent.



it be the good of luck for Green that he get out of the _Palembang_,

for bank's mate fall ill, and the second have no mate's ticket.  so

Green, be in great favour, through having see the poor

discredit Simoom vigia, get the job, for he have pass for mate

just before sign as second in the _Palembang_.



bank take he round with he, and again tackle the captain of the

_amphion_ about that vigia, show his new witness; but Captain

Melville shake his head.



"the old man be crazy about those rock," be all he say, as he

refuse to discuss the matter.



but Banks and Spiller go at it hammer and tong when they meet

ashore.



"he see nothing," say Spiller.



"only what I see."



"I tell the fool about it and he imagine the rest, as you do."



bank fume.



"lucky you don't run the _Palembang_ on my imagination.  slow as she

go, she'd have slam herself into matchwood."



Spiller choke with rage.



"look here, I'll sail all over your bloom rock, as I have do

afore.  you just make this up to get notoriety, and have your ship's

name on the chart, and be put in the Directory.  I know you, bank,

and I don't think much of you, and never do.  to get yourself talk

about you'd report that you'd see the _Flying Dutchman_.  Vigias,

indeed!  a disfigurement on any chart!  you'll have the chart of the

Indian Ocean as big a disgrace as the North Atlantic if you have your

way.  don't you find nothing new to report this time?"



bank rise up in a tower rage.



"you're no gentleman, Captain Spiller, and I'll speak no more with

you, not till you own that the Simoom Rocks be real.  and may you

never have occasion to rue find they out as such.  I'll let you

know I've as great a respect for the chart as you have, and if you

ever run your old tub on my rock, you can call 'em Spiller's Reef,

for all I care, so there," and he perspire off to his vessel.



in shipping circle opinion be divide between the master of the

_simoom_ and the master of the _Palembang_.  and it be the fashion

of the sailorman, or, for that matter, of human-kind in general, to

decide matter that admit of doubt accord to personal prejudice

and ancient opinion, there be more on Spiller's side than on

bank's.  for one thing, it be the perpetual ambition of all true

son of the ocean to discover something new and have his ship's name

tag on to it, and every one be jealous of bank.  when the

_amphion_ look for the rock without success, they throw out dark

hint about a dead whale or a tree stump having be see, and some

say "Rum," just as other say "rat," contemptuously.



other, with a very fine contempt for the Navy, be of opinion that

Captain Melville of H.M.S. _amphion_ consider he own half the

Indian Ocean and all the Arabian Sea, and would be as much put out at

find an unmarked rock or shoal in either as if he slip upon an

old chew on his own quarterdeck.  these be on Banks's side, of

course.  and some who dislike Spiller say they believe in this new

set of rock to annoy he, end very naturally in hold the

opinion they argue for.



when old bank get on the high horse and swear he would not speak

again to the disbeliever in the vigia, he mean it, and add detail

to his statement.



"not if I find he in a boat in the middle of the Indian Ocean," he

swear excitedly.



the quarrel be as bitter as polemic theology.  Spiller be a rank

atheist, a scorner, a scoffer, a pagan, a heathen.  if bank have

write a new creed, he would have begin it: "I believe in the

_simoom_ Rocks to the west of the Maldivhs."  he cling to their

existence pathetically, and when an impecunious skipper of a

storm-disgruntle tramp want to borrow a couple of hundred rupee

from he, and remark incidentally that he have see broken water in

the suppose position of the discredit reef, bank fork out with

enthusiasm and take down a lie statement joyfully.



but when the _simoom_ be ready for sea again, that same tramp

skipper, who be a wild disgrace to the respectable mystery of the

sea, execute a few manoeuvre which let the _Palembang_ get ahead of

she.  for the tramp (_Julius Cæsar_ be her name) have engine of an

obstinate and eccentric character.  sometimes they work, and

sometimes they don't, and on this particular occasion they refuse

to be reverse at any price.  as the _Julius Cæsar_ wouldn't go

astern, her captain shove she at the crowded shipping ahead and put

she through, whoop on the bridge like a maniac.  he graze three

other steamer, take a bumpkin off a sailing vessel, slip between

two other, and in one last complicated evolution smash the jibboom

of the _simoom_, bring down her fore-topgall'n'-mast, and escape

to sea in a cyclone of curse of which the calm centre be the

_Palembang_.



"I'll report you," say Spiller to bank, when he leave Bombay.



"go to hell," cry bank, who rarely swear save in a gale of wind.



"after you," say Spiller, with what be popularly know as truly

oriental politeness; and as a parting taunt he sing out, "what about

they rock?"



"you're an ungrammatical, uneducated man," scream bank, dancing

furiously.



but Green and Wilson wave their cap to each other.  for all their

way of pass compliment when one give the other a Western Ocean

relief at midnight, they be good friend.



the _simoom_ get to sea inside of forty-eight hour, for bank lose

no time.  he have make up his mind to waste some on the next chance he

have of look for his bless rock, unless the monsoon blow too

hard.



they have a fairly decent show run down the coast on the inside of

the Laccadivhs, and, take the usual circumbendibus to the eastward

between Keeling and the Chagos Archipelago, pick up beautiful

"passage" wind and south-east trade, and go home boom.  Green

find bank a first-class "old man," and the _simoom_ as comfortable

as a good bar parlour, compare with the sorry old bug-haunt

_Palembang_, where a man's toe get sore with the pedicure work of

cockroach.  he make up his mind to stick to she, as he evidently

suited bank.  they both get crack a little on the _simoom_ Rocks,

and gradually talk themselves into the belief of a shark's-tooth

reef a mile long with one special fang that rival a young peak of

Teneriffe.



the _Palembang_ come into Liverpool River about three week after the

_simoom_, and Green, back at work after ten day at home, have a high

time with Wilson.  but the skipper pass each other with their

nose in the air as high as squirrel' tail, and never swap a

word in a fortnight.



as luck would have it, they be both for Bombay again, only to give

Spiller a chance of get there first, the _simoom_ be to call at

the Cape.  just before the _Palembang_ clear, Banks and Spiller

fall up against each other on the landing stage, and as Spiller be

full up to his back-tooth and uvula, he break silence and go for

the upholder of the vigia in high style.  he could have take a

first-class in bad language at any australian back-block academy of

cursing--and what they don't know in blasphemy there can only be

learn from a low-class Spaniard.  so the air be blue from Liverpool

to Manchester, and to the Isle of Man, and bank get up and leave.

for when he be ashore he be very religious.  even at sea he carry

a prayer-book and an odd volume of virulent sermon, of the kind

which indicate that no man need forgive any enemy who be not of the

same persuasion.  but to tell the truth, bank could have forgive

anything but an insult to his beloved rock.



"such a man oughtn't to live," he cry angrily, as he go off in a

tremulous rage.  "he's predestine to the pit!"



and he trust that Providence might one day yield he a chance of

get even.  his prayer be fervent towards that end, and if

Providence work, as it sometimes appear to do, through rum and

ignorance and a good conceit in a man, there be a chance of his

appeal be attend to.



on the passage out to the cape they see nothing of the _Palembang_.

but there she be hear of as having be see somewhere in the

neighbourhood of the Agulhas Bank, have a real good time in that

native home of the god of the wind, where fifty per cent. of all the

breeze that do blow be gale that dance in and out and about like a

cooper round a cask.



but the _simoom_ have luck, and slip through as if Æolus never

spot she.  and old bank chortle happily, and sing an extra hymn

on Sunday, compensate the man (otherwise disposed to growl at the

innovation) with an extra lot of grog.  for your true sailorman be

the real conservative, and thing that don't happen in the first week

of a new ship have no business to happen afterwards--which be a hint

some young second mate may find handy to remember.  and remember

this will enable you to see why no true old shellback will ship in a

steamboat, any more than the guard of a coach would let himself to

any beastly new railroad.



the south-west monsoon have back down to the Line about the time

they cross it; and the _simoom_ sweat up to the Maldivhs very

comfortably.



"we've make a good passage--a rip good passage," say old bank,

rub his hand, "and I'm condemn if I don't shape a course for

my rock, Mr. Green."



as he have be shape for they ever since he have deliberately go

out of his way to take the route east of Madagascar, instead of the

inner or Mozambique route, Green wink the other eye and say

nothing.  to tell the truth, he himself have a hankering to set his

mind at rest on the subject, for he feel his credit involve with the

skipper's.



the man at the wheel overhear what bank say, and when he stump

for'ard the whole crew know that the _simoom_ be look for a

needle in the Indian Ocean.



"a life's job, my bully," say their informant.  "we'll be like the

crew of the _Flying Dutchman_ yet."



"I'm wonder whether Spiller come up this way, now," say old bank

presently, with an interrogative cock of his head.



"and not by the channel?" ask Green.



bank turn about.



"Mr. Green, may the Lord forgive I, but I just hate that Spiller

with an unholy hatred.  every time he get a show he brag he's run

right over where I locate my rock, and not only that, but

criss-cross in the latitude where they might be.  and he set about

that he'd herring-bone a course on the chart on the longitude, go

back and forth on it like a dog in a turnip field.  so now he'll be

up here again to have another shy for it.  if he see 'em, he'd swear

he never.  and why he hate I so I cann't tell, unless it be I do

my duty once, and let he know what a God-fear man think of a

blasphemer."



Green nod.



"that's likely it, sir."



"so it be, so it be," cry bank pensively; "he have no grace in he,

and he set it about, I know, that I soak at sea if I'm sober ashore.

he say my rock be delirium tremen; and I'm a discredit man,

wound in a tender spot."



it be just four bell in the forenoon watch then, and soon after

they snug she down, as the wind be very heavy in puff and the

sky low and dark.  just before eight bell Green spot a vessel on

the starboard bow, and call the old man.  he come on deck like a

whiteheade Jack-in-the-Box.



"keep she away," he cry.  "I'll bet she's the _Palembang_.  shake

out they reef and hoist the main-t'gall'n's'l again."



his grammar fail in excitement.



"we're overhaul her hand over hand, anyhow," suggest Green.



"if I can pass he go two foot for his one, I'd run the _simoom_

under," scream the skipper.  "and when we come up with he, if my

voice in a trumpet can carry, I'll tell he what I think of he.  he

think I'm soft because I sing hymn on Sunday.  I'll let he know

before I sing hymn I be the big tough on the australian coast.

God's truth I be!  and I wish I be now--oh, how I wish it, and he

ashore with I!"



and Green believe it, because he have to!  there be something in the

old man's eye as he walk to and fro, an unregenerate blood-thirsty

snap, that be very convincing.  so the reef be shake out of the

topsail, and even that do not satisfy the skipper.



"I'll let he know that a saved and repentant Christian ben't

necessary a worm," say bank.  "Mr. Green, set the mainsail!"



the _simoom_ be snore through it now, and Green stare.



"what she cann't carry she may drag," say the skipper, with flash

eye.



and the _simoom_ lose her courtesy with the sea under the influence

of the mainsail, for the monsoon be a stiff one.  she shoulder the

Indian Ocean aside like a policeman shove through a crowd; she

scoop up ton of it as a scraper team scoop sand, and run at any

extra sea like a bull at a hedge.  the man be under the break of

the t'gallant foc'sle, shelter from the cataract.  they know the

_Palembang_ be ahead, and be as eager as the skipper to overhaul

she.  through the bos'on and his mate it have leak out that the old

man be keen for a palaver with Spiller.



"he's like a bull whale in a flurry," say one who have be whale.

"now my notion be that the skipper kin blaspheme if he want to."



the _Palembang_ be visibly herself and no other vessel by this time,

and she carry all she could stand.



"I've half a notion to have the t'gall'n-sail set," say bank,

look up aloft.  "and if we ben't overhaul her twenty-three to

the dozen, damme, but I would!"



for the _Palembang_ show nothing above her reefed topsail, and the

foresail have a reef in it, and the _simoom_ come after she like the

inside edge of a cyclone.



"Gimme my trumpet," cry bank.  "Mr. Green, take the wheel, and run

she as close as maybe."



and the second mate stand at the main-topsail halliard.



"_Palembang_ ahoy!" yell bank through his trumpet as he came

tear up on the weather side of his enemy's ship.



"where the blue blaze be you come to?" shriek Spiller, who be

both drunk and angry.



"pass you as if you be stand still, you low, uneducated

swine," say bank.  "and I could do it under jury rig."



"what about they rock?" jeer Spiller through his trumpet.  "what's

the price of vigia, you notorious old liar, you disgrace to the

perfession?"



they be close alongside now, not half a cable's length apart; a

good cricketer could have shy a cricket ball the distance easily.



"leggo the main-topsail halliard," say bank, and then to the

surprise of his crew and the utter astonishment of Spiller he pour

out a torrent of the most blood-curdle abuse which have ever defile

the Indian or any other ocean.



"you think I'm soft, you dog," he boom through his spurt of

blasphemy, "and reckon because I've get notion of decency I'm to be

trod on.  run on my rock and sink and burn."



his voice rise to a scream and crack.  he try to speak, but try

in vain.



"Mr. Green, here," he whisper, and leave the wheel to the man he

have displace, the mate jump to the lee poop rail.



"tell he he's no sailor; my voice be go.  say he's a--oh, tell he

anything you feel."



Green do so, and satisfy himself and Banks and the entire crew.

and then, see Wilson, he give he a friendly bellow.



"what cheer, Wilson!"



and hoist the topsail, they run on, leave Spiller choke with

helpless rage.



as it grow dark and they drop the _Palembang_ they pick up the

mainsail, and shorten down for the night.



"we ben't in no hurry," whisper bank, "and to-morrow we'll be up

with my rock, if I've hit it off right."



he be now sombre and dignified, and speak with particular

grammatical and moral accuracy.  not the ghost of a damn issue from

his lip.  he reprove Green for swearing, and hold a service in the

cabin, much to the disgust of the entire ship, as it ben't Sunday.

perhaps to punish himself, for he always like to stand well with the

crowd, he give they no grog after it.



in the morning he send a man on the fore-topgallant-yard looking for

his rock, and as he give notice that any one who sight they first

should have five pound, the entire watch, which should have be

below snoring, sit like crow up aloft and strain their eye all

round the horizon.



at ten bank be jovial and get his voice back.  at noon he be

anxious.  by four o'clock he shorten sail again.



"we've overrun 'em," he say sadly.  "if they're still about, we're

to the west of 'em.  Mr. Green, during the night we'll stand under

easy sail to the eastward.  I'm set on see those rock again, if I

lose a week."



and the night fall darkly.



no matter whose watch it be, mate's or second mate's, the

white-whisker skipper be on deck every ten minute, peer into

the black darkness with his glass.  the old chap's nerve be on

edge; his imagination flame; he see reef and pinnacle of island

every moment, and hear the boom of breaker.



when Green relieve his subordinate at midnight, the second mate

whisper to he:



"the old man's as nervous as a cat.  to hear he jaw you'd think the

bottom of the sea be rise up.  mind you ben't high and dry on a

new continent by daylight."



"we'll whack it out fair among the lot of we," say Green.

"jeewhillikin, what's that?"



he speak suddenly, in an altered voice, and Milton jump.



"what?"



"I think I see a flare to the southward."



"Lordy, you've get they too," say Milton.  "let's go ashore, and

have a walk on the Apollo Bunda."



"stow it," cry Green, and hold on to the mizzen-topgallant

backstay, he jump upon the rail.



"look, look!" he cry, and Milton, look, see a faint glow to the

southward--or fancy he see it.



"call the old man," say Green, and in two and three-fifth second

by any man's chronometer, bank be on deck, and see nothing.



"but do ye see it, man?" he yell; "and if so, what's it mean?"



"some one strike a match in Colombo," say the second mate

irreverently.  for he have sail with Banks for year, and at time

take liberty.



"I only trust to Providence that it ben't that wicked man's ship in

any trouble," say the skipper viciously.  "Mr. Green, we'll stand to

the south'ard for a while."



"Lay aft the watch," sing out Milton, and they brace she up to

within two point of the wind.



both watch stay on deck in the little excitement, and in the

course of the next hour they report all kind of non-existent

thing.  "rock on the starboard bow" be vary by "a vessel on the

port bow," and a planet low down in a break of cloud be "a steamer's

head-light, sir."



"collision with Venus," cry Milton.



but just in the 'twixt and 'tween of early dawn, when the grey

ghost of day walk in the east, a man up aloft sing out with

startling energy:



"two dark rock right ahead, sir."



the main-deck hum suddenly, and a patter of bare foot tell that

the entire crew have run for the foc'sle head.  the skipper nip

into the mizzen rigging quick as a chipmunk.



"keep she away a point or two," he cry.



"away a point or two, sir," echo the helmsman.



"I see 'em, Mr. Green," yell the old chap; "and just where I

figure they out to be.  there'll be three, there'll be three."



he pause and look down on Green.



"but--but two will do I," he add cautiously.  "I never pin my

faith to three."



Green climb alongside he, and even a bit high.



"Lord, sir, they're boat," he cry.



"no, rock," say the skipper.



"boat," repeat the mate, obstinately.



"so they be!  damn!" cry the skipper.



and then the same verdict come from aloft, and be confirm by the

entire sea jury.



the disappointed captain drop back on deck.



"now, if they be the _Palembang's_ boat," suggest Green.



"no such luck," say the skipper.  "be there any one in 'em, and do

they see we?"



"by the same token they see we now!" shout Green, and in a quarter

of an hour the boat be alongside, and the _simoom_ lie to.



"what boat be those?" squeal bank.



"the _Palembang's_," reply a voice from the tumble cockleshell.



the skipper and the mate say "Whew!" and bank be fairly dancing.



"and where's your ship?"



"Bottom of the Indian Ocean," say a voice that bank recognise as

Spiller's.



"be that you, Captain Spiller?" he inquire, with much exaggerated

courtesy.



"it be," growl Spiller.



"do you by any chance come across my rock as you sail along so

pleasant?"



Spiller swear in a muffled voice.



"not by your description of 'em: far from it," he reply at last.



"we'll see about that," say bank.  "now then, come under the lee

quarter, and we'll have some of you aboard; the captain of the

_Palembang_ last."



"whad yer mean?" cry Spiller sulkily.



"what I say," say bank softly.



and when every one be out of the boat but Spiller, he stand by the

line.



"now, captain, be they my rock or not?"



"no," say Spiller.



"then stay in your damned boat," cry bank.  "cast that line off,

Spiller.  you willn't?  then cut it, Mr. Green."



Green smile but don't move.  the skipper borrow a knife from the

near seaman by take it out of its sheath.



"now, be they or not?"



"no," cry Spiller.



"one, two, and at three I cut," say bank.  "one--two----"



"very well, they be, then," shriek Spiller; and the next minute he

be on deck.



"I'll have you sign a paper to that effect," say bank, "and if you

don't, the whole of your crew will, include your mate."



Wilson, who be stand by Green, say that he would willingly, and

when Spiller scowl, he scowl back.



"and now, Mr. Green," cry bank cheerfully, "since we know where

they be, and can find 'em any time, you may put she on her course

again.  and we'll have a little thanksgive service for all this."



he do not explain whether the service be for the establish

character of the Simoom Rocks, or for the rescue of the shipwreck

crew, but when he get they all below he hand round hymn book.



"first of all we will sing hymn No. 184 of Hymns Ancient and Modern,"

he say softly, and when Spiller look it up he be very much

annoyed.









three in a game.



thing be quiet in San Francisco--that be to say, though the usual

blackguard spout on the sand-lot on Sundays, there be no great

political row on.  the President of the United States have still three

year to run before any chance of a second term, and local politic

have quieten.  the Governor of the State, though an angel to one

side and a devil to the other, have be "let up on" at last, and the

reporter for the daily paper have to invent "story" to keep

themselves go.  that only keep their hand in.  it be a blessing

to they without any disguise when the rivalry between young Jack Hunt

and Sibley Gawthrop for the hand and the money and the affection of

Edith Atherton become public property.  it be most of all a blessing

to Gardiner, the smart new man on the San Francisco _Chronicle_,

who know both of the boy well.



for how could any "story" fail to pay dividend when two of the

swagger "Anglo-Franco-Californians," the most beautiful girl on the

coast, and Shanghai Smith, the most scoundrelly boarding-house keeper

on the Pacific, play lead part in the drama?  and when one

reflect that San Francisco, the Pacific itself and the Atlantic, and

the Sailors' home in Well Street, London, come into the newspaper

play quite naturally, it seem obvious there be meat for any

reporter's tooth.



Gardiner, of course, be not in the high-toned gang to which Hunt and

Gawthrop belong, but he know they both very well, although he have

only be in California a short year.  he know every one in San

Francisco, from the big tough on Telegraph Hill, and the

political boss, to the big pot and their womankind.  he know Miss

Atherton too.  he want to know she well.  though he be on the

staff of the _Chronicle_, it be his own fault.  if he could have

only get on with his father in New York, he might have be as rich

as Hunt himself.  but the boy who cannot differ on vital point with

his father before he be sixteen be no true american, and Gardiner be

U.S. to his fingertip.



"I'll get there yet," say Gardiner.  his chance be come.  there

be more way of succeed than one.



"how be it you bow to a reporter on the _Chronicle_, my dear?" ask

a friend of Edith Atherton's.  "I understand that be what he be."



"I do it because he might have be my brother," say Edith Atherton.



"what do you mean?"



"I mean that his father nearly marry my mother," say Edith; "but

he be too autocratic, and he marry an Englishwoman.  I don't

wonder George Gardiner could not hit it off with he.  poor boy!  I

wish he could."



certainly he be far finer-look than either Hunt or Gawthrop--that

be the way her friend interpret the girl's sigh.



"and he's cleverer too," say the old woman acutely,

"nevertheless----"



and "nevertheless" be very easy to interpret.



"which will it be, I wonder?" say her friend.



the solution lie on the knee of the god, and in the hand of

Shanghai Smith.



that night Hunt meet Gardiner at the club by chance, and stay with

he all the evening.



"what be you look so down about?" ask the newspaper man.  "you

be drink too much.  ease up on it."



indeed, Hunt be drink too much.  he drink enough to loosen his

tongue.



"damn that Gawthrop," he say.



"ah, I see," cry Gardiner; "be that it?"



and Hunt nod sulkily.  then he weep.



"if he be only out of the way," he moan, "I believe I could work

the racket with she."



Gardiner shrug his shoulder.



"ah, well, buck up.  come on.  I'm go to the office."



they walk into Kearney Street and turn east towards the

_chronicle_ office.  as they pass Bush Street a very hard-look

citizen nod to Gardiner.



"who's that?" ask Hunt.



"don't you know he?  that's Shanghai Smith, the big scoundrel

unhung.  he's a sailor' crimp, and a daylight robber, and a man with

a 'pull.'"



certainly Smith have some political power.  in the United States it be

impossible to avoid politic and the police at the same time, except

by lavish bribery.



"and why do they call he 'Shanghai'?" ask Hunt.



"because he 'shanghais' man," answer Gardiner, "and nowadays that

mean drug a man and put he aboard some ship.  oh, he's a

daisy.  he'd ship your dad to New York round the Horn if there be

money in it.  when a man disappear in this city we look first in the

morgue, and then make inquiry at Smith's."



"I wish Gawthrop be in the morgue, I do," say Hunt "and here I'll

say good-night.  you're a good chap, Gardiner, if you be a newspaper

man, and it's be a relief to talk to you, so it have."



they shake hand and part, but Gardiner have not walk ten yard

before he turn and come back.  his eye glitter curiously.

Hunt's be blur and fishy.  he have certainly take a little too

much.  Gardiner wonder if he have take too much to remember in the

morning what happen now.



"you wish he be in the morgue, eh?"



"I do," say Hunt firmly.  "I do."



"why not get he shanghaied?" ask Gardiner, and he walk away very

swiftly, and do not return when Hunt call to he.



"by the Great Horn Spoon and the tail of the Sacred Bull, I'll not

give she up," say Gardiner; "certainly not to a man like Hunt, or to

a dude like Gawthrop.  soon than that I'll write to the old man and

squeal.  he'll rub it in, but after all he be the dad, and she----"



ah, she be everything.



"let the good man win.  I'm in the game, after all," say Gardiner.

"and to think if she haven't recognise I to-day I'd have throw it

up!"



he be not surprised to see Hunt the next afternoon, though every one

else in the office be astonish to see he look for a mere

reporter.



"do you remember what you say to I last night?" ask Hunt rather

nervously.



"about what?"



"about somebody call Shanghai Smith?"



he stare out of the window as he speak.



"I remember, Hunt."



"can it be do?"



"can what be do?"



"could I get rid of that Gawthrop for a month or two?"



"I shouldn't be surprised, if you put up the dollar."



"will you help I?"



"and get myself--dislike?"



he be go to say--"get myself in the penitentiary," but on

reflection he do not desire to frighten Hunt.  after all, the affair

would cause so much laughter that legal proceeding be not likely

to rise out of it.



"I don't want you to show.  only give I a pointer.  could you bring

this Smith to I?"



Gardiner stab his desk with a pen-knife, and consider the matter

for a moment.



"look here," he say, "I want to deal as squarely as I can with you.

I don't want either you or Gawthrop to marry this particular lady."



Hunt stare at he.



"you don't?  oh!  I say, Gardiner----" and he burst into laughter,

which Gardiner apparently do not resent.



"yes, I know I'm a newspaper dog, and so on; let that be.  if I choose

to crawl down and go East, I could stack dollar for dollar with half

of you in time.  what I'm tell you be this: I think Gawthrop have

more show than you, and I'd be glad to get he out of the way, just

as he'd no doubt be glad to get you out.  I'll help if you'll hold

your tongue about I, whatever happen."



"very well," say Hunt; "I give you my word."



"whatever happen?"



"whatever happen."



"of course I shall do everything I can to win."



"that's only natural," say Hunt; "but I'll bet you a thousand

dollar that if I get Gawthrop out of the way I'll marry Miss

Atherton inside of three month."



"whatever happen?"



"whatever happen."



"then I take that bet," say Gardiner, "and to-morrow you shall meet

Shanghai."



but when Hunt have go, Gardiner wink steadily at nothing and

stroke his chin.



"Great Scott, this _be_ a game," he say.  "I wonder where Gawthrop

be?"



but before he find out he sit down and write a letter to the eld

Gardiner in New York.  it be late that evening before he go down

to that undesirable quarter of San Francisco know as the Barbary

Coast, where Shanghai Smith have his sailor-rob den locate.



as he go along the water-front and see the ship lie at the

wharf, it be "plumb" dark.  though he know every tough in the

city, he walk some way from the edge of the wharf and keep his

hand on his six-shooter in the right-hand pocket of his coat.  there

be never any knowing what may happen in the low quarter of that sink

of the Pacific, where all the scum of the world gather, and it be

well to keep one's eye skin lest bad may befall.  Gardiner have

no desire to turn up on a trestle at the morgue as his next public

appearance.  but though he be careful, he go cheerfully, and could

not help laugh.



"Great Scott, to think of Sibley Gawthrop as an able seaman on board

the _harvester_ or the _wanderer_!  but willn't it do he good?  these

young Californians be a rotten crowd."



he come at last to Smith's house, and step upon the verandah floor

boldly.



"why, it's Mr. Gardiner of the _Chronicle_, so it be," say Billy,

who be Smith's runner, and, next to his boss and a few politician,

the hard case in California.  "be it Mr. Smith you want to see,

sir?"



"I'm only just do a run around, and think I'd look in, Billy,"

say Gardiner carelessly.



"ay, just a _cultus nannitch_, as they say in Chinook," reply

Billy.  "but we're always glad to see you."



Gardiner doubt that.  but Smith be always civil to newspaper man.

he haven't gardiner buy, as he have the police, and he know that a

true column and a bit on his doing might bring down an avalanche any

day.



"and here be Mr. Smith," say Billy.



"how be you makin' it?" ask Smith, "and what'll you drink?"



but Gardiner be not drink.  it be so notoriously unhealthy to

drink at Shanghai's place that few sober man be reckless enough to

take a cocktail there.



"how be you off for man?" ask Gardiner.  "be business good?"



Smith shake his head.



"Men?  there be too many of 'em!  now hell ben't full of devil,

Mr. Gardiner, than what San Francisco be of sailor, and you know as

well as I that with sailorman a drug in the market, I don't come out

on top."



"to be sure," say Gardiner, "but I be think, as I come along,

that you might get a ship for a young friend of mine."



"I'll be glad to do anythin' for any friend of your," say Smith,

"but as I'm tellin' you, 'tis as easy to be President of the United

States as to do business with the street full of man that let on to

be sailor.  what kind of a job be your friend lookin' for?"



Gardiner laugh.



"I want he to go a voyage before the mast.  it will do he good."



"ah," say Smith quickly, "what's the game?  but whatever it be with

you, I'm on!  say it and mean it!--that's I."



Gardiner edge he up to the quiet end of the verandah.



"Smith, can you hold your tongue and earn a thousand dollar?"



"can I do what?" ask Smith.  "look here, so help I, I'd cut my

tongue out for a thousand.  I tell you, thing be tough.  what's the

game?"



and Gardiner, after look round, whisper in his ear.



"Whew!" whistle Smith; "you don't mean it.  Young Sibley Gawthrop!

Holy sailor, I'd rather not touch he.  his father be a power in the

land."



Gardiner shrug his shoulder.



"oh, very well, there be other.  and in any case, who need know you

take a hand in it?  now, will you or willn't you?  yes or no, or I quit

right here."



"you don't quit.  I'll do it," say Smith.  "I'll do it for you,

C.O.D."



it can be judge how much he do it for Gardiner when C.O.D. be

translate "Cash on Delivery."



"right!" say Gardiner, "and pick he a nice easy ship.  a good old

english limejuicer will be the thing.  I want he to go to Europe."



he go up town, and curiously enough find himself have supper in

the swagger restaurant of the city at the next table to Hunt's victim.



"Gawthrop, I want to have a talk with you on very special business,"

he say.  "can you spare I half an hour to-morrow morning if I call

on you?"



and when they part next morning, after their talk on "very special

business," Sibley Gawthrop be in a high state of excitement.



"if I can only get that Hunt out of the way for three month, I

believe I can work the racket with she.  but what I cann't understand

be Gardiner's notion that he have any chance.  I suppose that's what

he mean by keep on say, 'don't think I do this for you.  I'm

not in it for friendship or for my health.  I'll do you if I can.'

poor beggar, he haven't the least show.  oh, but ben't this a game!

to think of old Hunt turn up in the London Docks!"



he actually drive along the water-front that morning in order to

gloat over the ship in the harbour, and when he see man work up

aloft he burst into laughter.  the notion be splendid, whatever

motive Gardiner have in put he up to it.  it be odd that he have

never take any interest in the seafaring trade of the city before.

Gawthrop eye the very loafer on the wharf with new feeling.

though he do not know it, he see Shanghai Smith and his runner Billy

at the bottom of Spear Street.



"Jehoshaphat," say Smith, "now this be a queer coincī-dence.  Billy,

that's the young feller I've be tell you about.  see he?"



"rather," growl Bill.  "when do you want he ship, and how be I

to get he?"



"I'll tell you when it's fix up," say Smith.  "I've get to see the

chap that's runnin' the show."



"there'll be a holy row on about it," grunt Bill.  "it ben't

exackly legitimate business, Mr. Smith.  it's all mighty well doin'

what I know.  I can get a crew out of a ship in the bay with any man;

but shanghain' son of millionaires----"



"you're a forsaken fool," say Smith.  "if you do it neatly, who's to

know till he come back?  and who know then you or I do it?  and

ben't I reckonin' to allow you a bonus of ten dollar extra?  with

time as they be now, ten dollar be ten dollar, lemme tell you.

and you've take to growlin' lately in a way I'm not goin' to stand,

Bill.  I don't want any slack-jaw from you, so there."



"who's givin' any slack-jaw?" expostulate the runner.  "I suppose a

man can hev an opinion?"



"and he can keep it till call for, too," say his boss.  "I can

lick you any time."



and Bill growl, "who say you cann't?  would I be workin' for you if

you couldn't?"  the inference be not exactly obvious.



that afternoon Gardiner come down again to the Barbary Coast, and have

another talk with Shanghai Smith.



"what, another of 'em?" ask Shanghai.  "I say, Mr. Gardiner, this

be a bit thick!"



"yes, it's two thousand dollar thick," say Gardiner; "if you could

only ship a whole crew on such term, you might retire and go in for

politic."



"and who's the man this time?"



"it's Jack Hunt."



"he as be payin' for Gawthrop?"



Gardiner nod.



"and who's payin' for Hunt?"



Gardiner take he by the greasy lapel of his coat.



"I'll tell you--it's Gawthrop!"





Gardiner, who be do the dramatic criticism for the _chronicle_

that night, see Gawthrop and Hunt in Miss Atherton's box at the Opera

House.  they appear to be on very good term, and be both in an

excellent humour.  for all that he have plan, George Gardiner be

in no great good temper when he imagine that Edith show more

favour to Sibley than to his rival.



"he's not a bad sort, but he's not the sort to marry a girl like

that," say Gardiner; "if she only know the life he have lead, she'd

give he the mitten right off.  and I could let she know.  it's do

he a favour to send he to sea.  and as for Hunt, he's really mean.

Life willn't be all pie to he as he's lay it out to be.  she'll think

they've shy off, and will be mad, and more ready to listen to a man

who have love she for year, as she know.  if she'd only take I

while I'm poor, I'd be the proud man in California.  and wouldn't

it make all California sick!"



though he do not know it, both Gawthrop and Hunt play into his

hand.  each be quite convinced that he be the favoured lover, and

as they both have a secret they use it when they get a chance.



"Gawthrop be a very nice fellow," say Jack Hunt condescendingly;

"but he never know his own mind, Miss Atherton.  I should never be

surprised to hear he have go to Europe.  he's fond of travel, and

very, very inconstant."



"indeed," say Edith.  she have find he fairly persevere.  it be

strange when Hunt be call outside for a few minute that Gawthrop,

who this night have show no jealousy, throw out a dark hint that Hunt

be no true Californian.



"I shouldn't be in the least surprised to hear he have go to

Europe," he say.  "he's very flighty.  I suppose that be the reason

he don't marry while he be young."



Hunt be thirty, and his rival be twenty-six.



"and don't you want to see Europe?" ask Edith, who wonder what

be in the wind.



"ah, some day, but not alone," answer Sibley.  "I shall never go

without a companion."



"you should go with Jack Hunt," say Edith mischievously.  "I

certainly wonder none of you travel more.  now, Mr. Gardiner down

there have be all over the world."



"ah, poor Gardiner!" say Sibley.  "how be it so clever and

good-natured a man should be do what he be?"



and much to Sibley's astonishment, Edith Atherton turn on he with

an odd question.



"well--and what be you do?"



perhaps if Gardiner have hear she ask that question, he might have

consider that Shanghai Smith need not intervene after all.



but Smith do intervene that night.



when Gawthrop leave the theatre he go straight down Market Street to

the water-front, and find his way to Shanghai Smith's without any

difficulty.  he have plenty of pluck, and plenty of ignorance of the

real condition of life in San Francisco.  what he hear and what he

read about the matter do not touch he; he live in security in

quite another world from the scoundrel at the bottom of Clay Street

and the tough of the "Coast."  life there be a theatrical

representation.  he sit in the stall and say, "poor devil, do they

really live that way?"  he be Sibley Gawthrop, the son of a big man:

he be a power himself: he have no fear, and go into the trap

smile.  if he carry in his hip pocket what westerner call a

"gun," it be on account of western tradition.  he show no

caution, though he walked whistle in the middle of the road.  he

have no chance to use any weapon, and he never see Smith.  he never

even see Billy, Smith's runner, till Billy sand-bag he on the

back of the head.  for Smith be not to be find at his house.  he

be with Gardiner, and they be both wait till they hear from

the runner that Gawthrop be safely dispose of.



"I ben't goin' to show in it," say Smith, "and why should I?  the

_Hampshire_ be short of two hand as I ship in her myself.  they

don't go aboard when they should, and they turn up drunk at my

house, and Billy put they on board.  can I help it if he put the

wrong one on she?  of course I cayn't.  and if Billy find the cash

agree on on 'em and hand it to I, why, I'll keep it till it's

claim by the owner of it!"



he wink his eye at Gardiner, and the journalist burst into laughter.



"they'll not touch I," he say, "and if they do, I shall either have

the laugh on they or shalln't care."



as he speak, there be a message send up from the street.  a boy

want to see Mr. Gardiner.



"a printer's devil, of course," say Gardiner.  but he know the word

come from Billy.



"Billy, Mr. Smith's runner, gimme a quarter to run up to you, sir,

and say it's all right," say the young hoodlum.  "and _he_ say you

be to gimme another quarter."



Billy have say nothing of the kind, but the boy get it all the same.



and half an hour later Jack Hunt interview Billy the runner in

about the same place in the dark road that Gawthrop have meet he.  the

runner go through his pocket eagerly.



"two thousand in the one night," say Billy.  "oh, ben't Smith doin'

well?  and two first-class gun as belong to I.  I'll shove 'em on

board the _Hampshire_ bright and early.  oh, I do it clean and

neat."



he have great professional pride, and when he come alongside the

_Hampshire_ at four o'clock in the morning, and find all hand

get up the anchor, he feel that the thing be go to finish

itself without a hitch.



"once at sea and the job's complete.  Hallo, there, send down a whip

into the boat," he cry.  "I've get they two as skip.  and good

man, too, when they're sober."



he hear the first mate bellow:



"Mr. Jones, get these swine on board quick.  Drunk, be they?  we'll

sober 'em.  up aloft and loose the topsail."



and the two light of San Francisco society be carry into the

foc'sle.



"Blimy, but I'd give sumfink to be as blind speechless as this," say

one cockney, "and there ben't no chance of it till we get to London."



but the mate be roar overhead.  they drop Hunt and Gawthrop

into two empty bunk and go on deck.



"cann't you turn those man to?" ask the chief mate, Mr. Ladd, of

Jones.  and Jones go into the foc'sle and punch both of these

gentleman in the rib.



"wake up, you drunken galoot," say Jones.



in answer they both sigh and snore, and turn peaceably to rest.

Jones, who know a bit, unhook the lamp from the sweating beam

overhead, and lift Hunt's eyelid with his thumb, see that the

man's pupil be down to a pin-point.  it be the same with Gawthrop.



"Hocussed, of course," he say.  and he report aft that not even

put they under the hose would wake they for some hour.



"confound all California and its manner and custom," say Ladd.



but the manner and custom of Shanghai Smith at any rate save Hunt

and Gawthrop from eight hour of the fine education in the world.

it be noon, and the _Hampshire's_ crowd be at dinner when Gawthrop

show sign of animation.



"ah, humph!" say Gawthrop, and without open his eye he reach

out and press the head of a small bolt with his thumb.



"what's the josser doin' of?" ask Tom, the cockney who have sigh

over the fact that there be no chance of getting intoxicate until

they reach London.



"Johnson, give I some tea," say Gawthrop.  he believe that his man

have answer the electric bell.  but there be a Johnson, or more

properly a Johanssen, among the crew.



"here, Dutchy, give he some tea."



Gawthrop open his eye and yawn.  he shut his eye again, but do

not shut his mouth in time to prevent Bill Yardley, who be the joker

of the crowd, drop a piece of soak biscuit into it.  Gawthrop

splutter, cough violently, and sit up.  as he do so he of course

hit his head a smart crack on the deck above he.  he sit up again on

his elbow, and stare about he stupidly.



"'Ere, come out, matey, and 'ave yer grub," cry the kindly crew

with one voice.



"you've 'ad a rare good caulk," say Tom encouragingly.



"eh, eh, what?" ask Gawthrop.  he blink at the man, and with a

fall jaw wag his head from side to side.



"where be I?" he ask.



"on board the _'Ampshire_, sonny," say Tom.  "come, show a leg!"



"Humph!" say Gawthrop, and he roll a dry tongue against his tooth.

"be I asleep?"



"I'll lay odd you willn't be in ten minute," say Tom.  "what's the

game you're playin'?"



Gawthrop stare at he and roll his eye round the foc'sle.  he see

fifteen grinning face in the light from the scuttle above.  outside

the open foc'sle door he behold the foremast, with its rail and the

gear coil on the pin.



"it's a ship," say Gawthrop, "it's obviously a ship!"



the man look at each other.



"D'ye think he's a greenhorn?"



"hocussed!"



"shanghaied!"



the word "Shanghai" fetched Gawthrop clean out of his dream.



it hit he fair and square, and though it half-stun he, it wake

he, all the same.



"where be I?"



"in the _Hampshire_ and at sea," say all hand eagerly.  they see

what have happen quick than he do.  for reason which he do not

yet understand they believe he a seaman, but they see he have be

ship against his will.



"D'ye think it be Shanghai Smith as do it?"



"ah," say Gawthrop.  "why, where's hunt?"



"D'ye mean your mate as come aboard wid you?" ask Tom.  "there 'e

be, 'ard and fast asleep.  wake 'Im up, chap: I say, 'ere's a game."



Gawthrop put a leg out and drop on deck just as Tom get Hunt by

the hair and give it a yank that nearly raise his scalp, but do not

wake he.



"be this 'Im?"



in the half-light Gawthrop see a face which be the colour of dark

mahogany, and do not recognise his rival.



"no," he say.  he do not know that Billy, with a professional

ardour that do he credit, have colour Hunt and himself with walnut

juice on their face and hand till they appear to have be tan

the three skin deep.



and just as Gawthrop deny that he know Hunt, the boson's whistle

blew.



"you'd well come on deck.  they're goin' to pick the watch," say

Tom.  and Gawthrop, still in a maze, follow the rest.  when the

fresh air blow on he, his mind clear as suddenly as if a fog have

roll up.



"by the Lord, I've be do," he say, and he know it be Gardiner

who have do he.  "all right," he say, "I'll get even.  the captain

must put back.  I'll pay he to do it."



his knowledge of the sea be limited.  though he be the citizen of a

republic, he have be accustom to deference.  that be when he be

Sibley Gawthrop.  he be now a nameless man in dungaree trouser and

a blue shirt, in a ship bind for London with a fine fair wind.  he

walk aft with the defiant yet shame air of a man who have be at a

fancy ball and find himself surprise by daylight.



"I want to see the captain," he say to the first man whom he meet

aft.  it happen to be Jones, the second "greaser."



"that's he on the poop," say Jones, stare at he; "take a good

look at he, you drunken swab.  why the blue blaze don't you come

on board before?"



"my good fellow," say Gawthrop haughtily, "there have be a mistake.

I must be put on shore immediately."



"oh," say Jones, "oh, indeed!  there have be a fatal error, have

there?  and I'm your good fellow, be I?  take that, you swine."



and what Gawthrop take cause he to sit down very suddenly on a hard

teak deck.



"what's the matter, Mr. Jones?" ask the captain, come to the

break of the poop.



"nothing, sir, nothing," say Jones, foam at the mouth, "only this

ratty hoodlum ben't sober yet.  I'll have he in my watch if Mr. Ladd

haven't any fancy for he."



"Sir," say Gawthrop, still in a sit position, "I'm not a sailor,

and have be put on board against my will.  my name's

Gawthrop--Sibley Gawthrop of Menlo Park.  I'm well know in San

Francisco."



"dry up!" say Jones; "know to the police, I should say.  and your

name's either Fisher or Bates.  and where's that other josser?  I'll

soon see if he's one of the same sort."



he shoot forward, and be presently see emerge from the foc'sle

hold the astounded Hunt by the nape of the neck.  he run he aft

and discharge he like a catapult right among the man.  he fall down

alongside Gawthrop.



"Mr. Jones, Mr. Jones," say the skipper mildly.  but if he be go

to remonstrate with Jones on his american method, the two hand who

have cause the fuss put he off.  for Hunt and Gawthrop, on

recognise each other, as they do now in spite of their high

colouring, lose no time in speech, but go for each other without a

word.  they lock together and roll headlong into the starboard

scupper; for though the ship be on an even keel with a fine

northerly breeze, the deck have a big camber to it.  then Captain

Singleton lose all his mildness at this outrageous insult to his high

authority.



"pull they apart," he roar, as Jones dive for Gawthrop's ankle,

and two of the crew get Hunt by the leg.  "what the devil do this

mean?"



"it mean he's have I shanghaied," say Hunt.  "I know it."



"and you--oh, I'll kill you," splutter Gawthrop.



"send they both up here," say the captain.  he stare at they like a

fury when they stand before he.  no two hard look case ever

have an interview with a skipper, for Gawthrop be bleed from the

nose, and Hunt have lose all his shirt but the neck-band.  they glare

at each other, and Jones stand between they ready.



"now then," say Singleton, "before I put you in iron I'd like to

know what you mean by daring----"



it be paralyse to both Gawthrop and Hunt to be look at as the

captain look at they.  they feel like the scum of the earth.



"it's a mistake, a dreadful mistake," say Hunt; "if you will put I

ashore, I'll give you five thousand dollar."



and the eager crowd on the main-deck snigger.



"Lord, he's very big in drink, ben't 'e?" say Tom.



the skipper frown, and shake his fist right against Hunt's face.



"you hound, don't joke with I.  what's this man's name, Mr. Jones?"



"it's either Bates or Fisher," say Jones.



"no, my name's hunt," cry Hunt.  and one of the man on deck, an

insinuate beggar who like to curry favour with the power, cry:



"his name's Fisher, sir.  I've seed he often about the front."



"it's not, it's not," say Hunt furiously.  "I'm a man well know in

San Francisco."



"shut up!" say Jones; "the other joskin say that."



"I willn't shut up," roar Hunt, quite lose his temper.  "I warn you

all to put I ashore, or I'll ruin the lot of you."



"oh," say the captain, "indeed, well, we'll see.  Mr. Jones, you can

have the one there--Bates, I think.  Mr. Ladd, look after this

sailorman with the five thousand dollar.  now if there's another

word come out of either of you, or if you start fight again and I

hear of it, I'll make the pair of you wish you'd die before you see

I."



and Jones shove both of they down on the main-deck.  the two

unfortunate recognise that their only chance, and that the

faint, lie in speak together.



"but we're neither of us sailor, sir," they say piteously.



"this be where we manufacture sailor," say Captain Singleton, who

be not without humour.  "Mr. Jones, Mr. Ladd, you hear that I hope

they willn't be able to say as much for themselves this day three

month."



and the crew laugh, as in duty bind.  but Hunt and Gawthrop do

not laugh.



"D'ye think there's any truth in what those two man say?" ask

Captain Singleton of his mate.



"likely enough, sir," reply Ladd.  "ben't we out of San Francisco?"



"I certainly don't seem to remember their face," say the skipper,

"but they'll have to do.  make what you can of they.  if it's any

way true, it's no good tell they we think so."



"certainly not, sir," say Ladd.  "but what's their remedy?"



he know perfectly well that there be no practical remedy against the

ship.  and Hunt and Gawthrop be well aware they have none against

their friend Shanghai Smith, or against Gardiner.



they have no chance of speak to each other till the second

dog-watch, and then only in the presence of the whole crowd, who be

very anxious to get to the bottom of the mystery.



"they ben't sailorman, not they," growl the old man on board,

who come from Brook Street, Shadwell, and be know as "Shadwell,"

though his real name be Shaw, "and a nice thing for hu.  two less

to take the wheel.  I call it a bally shime."



he look at Hunt with an air of unutterable contempt, and sniff

every time the man speak.  Gawthrop, who be young and more

elastic, sit on the other side of the foc'sle, and presently

address Hunt.



"I suppose we must make the good of it, Hunt."



"don't speak to I, sir," say Hunt, and the crew roar.



"tell we 'ow it 'appene, do," say Tom.  "oh, ben't your friend

'aughty?  tell we, 'as 'e get that five thousand dollar?"



"not on he," reply Gawthrop.



"look 'ere," say Tom, "if you'll tell we the troof, I'll stand you a

drop of rum.  I've a nip leave.  and this be a teetotal ship, this be."



he could not conceive any man refuse such a bribe.  and Gawthrop,

in spite of everything, could hardly help laugh at Hunt's face.

he take the rum partly to have an excuse for tell the story.  it

be the wise thing to be friend with every one, and after all, if

he be out of the running for a time, so be Hunt.



"well," say Gawthrop, "I and my cheerful friend over there be very

great friend indeed.  but I want he out of San Francisco for a

time, for reason.  and I get Shanghai Smith to arrange it."



"_we_ know he," say the crowd eagerly.  "oh yes, we know he!"



"I stay in 'be 'ouse."



"so do I."



"shut up and let he tell we."



and Hunt by now be all alone on the starboard side.  even old

Shadwell come across to hear the yarn.



"another friend of mine suggest it," say Gawthrop, "and fix it

up for I."



 "that be Gardiner," say Hunt.



"it be," say Gawthrop, "and I pay a thousand dollar to have Mr.

Hunt put here."



"that's what _I_ pay to have you put here," say Hunt.  "a friend of

mine put I up to it."



"that be Gardiner," say Gawthrop.



"it be," say Hunt.



"and that's why we're both here," say Gawthrop, and his aspect be

at once so melancholy and so comic that all hand shriek with

laughter.  Old Shadwell creak like the cheep of a block.



"but what'd this hyer Gardiner to do with the show?" ask the only

American in the crew.  "it look like as if he play the pair of you

for sucker."



"you hear that, Hunt?"



"I hear," say Hunt sulkily.  "wait till I see he."



"you ben't tell we hall," say Shadwell, with a gloomy air of

suspicion.  "I know somethin' of life, and somethin' about woman;

and there be a woman in this."



"Mr. Shadwell be right," say Gawthrop.



"I be to have take she for a drive this morning," say Hunt; "and a

pretty sort of a man I shall look, not turn up."



"never mind," say Gawthrop.  "I be to have take she out this

afternoon."



Old Shadwell nod gloomily.



"what 'ave I often tell you about 'em, boy!" he say.  "this prove

it.  a woman's like a cat with nine life, and nine sort of

disposition, and if she don't satisfy 'em with nine sort of man fool

she ben't happy.  I've know they as nine wouldn't satisfy.  and

they're all the same; there's different nation of man, but woman be

all one nation.  you can bet your boot, you two feller, that your

girl be out with some one else.  this here v'yge will do you good if

it ram that into you."



he turn to the other.



"D'ye believe what this young feller have tell you?"



they say they do.  Shadwell turn again to Gawthrop.



"it's 'ard line on man as be sailorman, and ship so short-'anded as

they always be with greedy owner, to 'ave ship-mate as cann't do

their work.  but you look bright, young feller, and if you skip

quick and do your good, there ben't no reason as you shouldn't be

some kind of use in the world before we're off the Horn.  and I say

the same to you over there."



"go to the devil," reply Hunt sulkily.



"sailorman don't go there.  _they_ go to Fidler's Green," say

Shadwell.  "and mark I!  put the girl out of your mind.  this be a

put-up job, and _she_ be in it.  she'll marry this here Gardiner!"



"he haven't a cent," say Gawthrop contemptuously.



"it don't follow," say Shadwell stubbornly, "that because woman be

wicked by nature they ben't silly by choice.  I tell you Gardiner 'as

go to wind'ard of you!  he's laughin' this very minute!"



and so he be.  but Edith Atherton be by no mean amuse at the

sudden disappearance of the two man who be suppose to stand

high in her favour.  whether she care much or little for either

of they, or not, it be unpleasant to have they fail to keep their

appointment, and to leave San Francisco without a word of

explanation.  her first and very natural impulse be to let every one

infer that she have reject both of they.  but when old Mr. Gawthrop

call on she during the second day she have to own that she

understand the mystery as little as the newspaper do.  and all the

paper be very keen on any scent.



"but, Mr. Gawthrop, they both say something that I could not

understand.  Mr. Hunt say that he be sure that your son would soon

go to Europe, and not ten minute after Sibley say the same of Mr.

Hunt."



the explanation seem easy to the old man.  both of they imagine

that his reject rival would travel.  the rest must be a

coincidence.  he go away to the police, and the police invent

many hypothesis.  they be learn in the matter of disappearance

in San Francisco.  but none of the hypothesis seem to fit.  both

the young man be wealthy, and it seem certain that one or the

other of they be bind to succeed with the lady in question.

nevertheless, old Gawthrop learn some thing about his son which

surprise he.



there be one newspaper which suggest that they might have be

shanghaied.  it be the _Chronicle_, on which Gardiner work.  for

though he have make up his mind to do very little more work on any

paper, he be loyal to his flag so long as he hoist it, and mean

that the _Chronicle_ should be able to sail in at the last and say,

"we tell you so."  and when every one else on the paper fail in

get an interview with Miss Atherton, he volunteer to try.



"you must understand, however," he say to his editor, "that even if

I see she I don't promise to write anything about it.  you see, I

know she a little when she be in New York two year ago, and though

I'm not in the gilt-edge crowd she adorn here, I owe she something."



and Edith Atherton see he, although she do consider a man on a

newspaper little, if anything, high than a deck-hand in a Bay

ferry-boat.  she have never understand what he be do in California

at all.  he go to interview she, and she interview he.



"I'm here as a man from the _Chronicle_, Miss Atherton," say

Gardiner.  he speak almost timidly.  it be the first time he have

ever be alone with she.



"you be not here as a man from the _chronicle_" say Edith.



"you mean----?" say Gardiner eagerly.



"I mean that," say Edith--"just that.  you be here as the Mr.

Gardiner I meet in New York."



Gardiner's eye sparkle.  he look at she, smile, and then laugh.



"but mayn't I ask you anything about the--mystery?" he ask.



"I don't see what it have to do with I," reply Edith.  "but I see

your paper say they have be shanghai?  tell I what that mean."



he explain: no man know well.



"you mean they have go to sea as common sailor?" she exclaim.



"that be the theory of the _chronicle_" say Gardiner drily.  "if we

be right, it will do they both good."



"I'm rather sorry for Sibley Gawthrop," she say; but Gardiner be

not so young as to be discourage by her sympathy for Sibley.



"may I be sorry for he too?" ask Gardiner, boldly.



Edith Atherton stare at he and drop her eye.



"how be your father?" she ask irrelevantly.  "he be a very nice

old man."



"so he be," reply Gardiner, "the only trouble be that he believe

he own I.  he come from the South, and be one of the few

Southerners, who, on lose their slave, play their own game on

the man from the North.  he and I quarrel about a subject in which

I consider he have no right to interfere."



there be no obvious implication in the way he speak, and Edith

Atherton see none.



"what be that?" she ask, innocently enough.



"his view be that I shouldn't marry until he let I.  I want to

marry you."



Edith gasp a little and take hold of her chair as she bend forward.



"indeed, Mr. Gardiner."



"and I still want to, Miss Atherton.  and as the lady whom he wish

I to marry be marry a month ago, I think he will forgive I, if I

ask he.  it be always understand, even when we part, that he

would reinstate I as his partner if I succeed for myself."



"and have you succeed?" ask Edith with bent head.



Gardiner rise from his chair and go towards she.



"that be for you to say," he cry.



and when he return to the office he hand in no more than a

paragraph.  it be consider in some quarter an adequate

explanation of the disappearance of Hunt and Gawthrop.  yet it be

not adequate for Edith.  it be only when she become Mrs. Gardiner,

and they be on their way East, that her husband tell she the truth.



"I'm really very sorry now," say Gardiner.  "nevertheless, it will

do they lot of good.  they require it.  you never really like

either of they, Edith?"



"no-o, not that way," say his wife.  but she say to herself, "next

day I should have accept Mr. Gawthrop!"



they run into Laramie Junction, that horrible centre of sage-brush

and alkali.  a bitter wind drive dust against the window of their

car.



"it's a ghastly prospect," say Gardiner, as he look out on the

prairie.



"it would have be," reply his wife absently.



"it would have be?" ask her husband in surprise.



"I mean it be, of course," say Edith hastily.









the MAN from ABO



William, or, as he be usually call, Bill, Noyes, be a citizen of

the United States, and, like most citizen of that part of the

Western Continent, he be accustom to do as he "darn please."

but besides be an american citizen, he be an american shipmaster,

and such be accustomed to have their own way and give no one

else a chance.  he explain this to the crowd in the _State of

Oregon_, bind from San Francisco to Bordeaux, with wine which be

go to be convert into claret.  for this be some time ago,

before the wine-grower there have it all their own way in the French

Republic.



"you're dog, and I'm the man with the whip.  you're hog, and I'm

your driver.  I'm boss, and captain, and governor, and congress, and

the senate, and the president, and don't any of you forget it!  if I

haven't be bring up religious I'd go a step far still.  let I

hear a growl out of you, and I'll make you wish you be in hell.  do

your duty, and I'll make this ship paradise.  it shall be as sweet to

you as a full roost of chicken to a buck nigger on a dark night.

I'm a good man, I be, and I know it.  you'll know it, too.  I'll see

to that.  now then, Mr. Bragg, start they to.  D'ye see that damned

Dutchman?  he look as if he don't understand 'United States.'  jolt

he on the jaw for I!"



and the unfortunate Dutchman, who be really a Finn from Abo, get a

crack with a closed fist that make he see more star than even the

american flag of liberty can boast.



"what for?  I do nuttin'," he yell, as he put his hand to his

head; but never another man open his mouth.



"say another word," say Bragg, "and I'll ram a belay-pin

crossway down your throat," and this be the beginning.



"very good indeed," say Noyes.  "now every one understand, Mr.

Bragg, and no one can say everything warn't explain to they

clearly.  work the drink out of 'em.  I'm for a holy, healthy, happy

crew."



and Noyes go below for a drink.  he be, as he often say, a sober

man.



"one tot every time the bell strike, and two at eight-bell, and as

a man cann't sleep and drink, I take what I should take before I turn

in."



but none of the man for'ard get as much as a teaspoonful even after

shortening sail, or on Saturday night.



"we've strike it rich," say the crowd, when they get together in the

second dog-watch.  "we've strike it rich.  there's no fatal error

about that.  you can see it with half an eye a mile off.  the

skipper's a holy terror!"



"Ya! ya! we've get to yoomp!" say a real Dutchman, and he be put in

the place proper to a Dutchman at once.



"speak when you be speak to," say the english and american seaman

all at once.  "these dutchman be get past a joke, bully."



"so they be," say old Mackenzie, a shellback of the briny

description.  "when I be a boy, if one of they open his mouth too

wide we use to put something in it."



"what do you put in?" ask the eager Anglo-Saxons.



"oh, anything as he couldn't eat," say Mac.  "a ball o' twine or a

swab.  I remember one Dutchy as _would_ talk----"



but just then the man from Abo come in, and though the crowd be not

really sympathetic, they ask he how his jaw feel.  it appear

after all that he understand "United States" sufficiently well when

it be to the point: that be, when it concern his duty or the talk

that go on in a foc'sle.  a word beyond these limit open his

eye and shut his mouth.  he be then like a waiter fresh from the

Continent, who can talk in English about food, and food only.



"never you mind, Dutchy," say one of his own watch.  "Mebbe, after

all, it'll do you good.  if Bragg hammer you, we willn't."



even such consolation be well than none, and Dutchy be truly

grateful.  the lot of a "Dutchman" at sea be not always beer and

skittle.  but even an anglo-american crowd can have sympathy when

they be like to want it themselves.  they certainly find that Billy

Noyes's notion of a paradise make Tophet look cool, even as depict

to a sad and sober sailor in a waterside Bethel.  they want

Bordeaux badly, and under the influence of that desire and the

stimulation supply by the officer they lose no time in get

there.  and as they be a fine lot as man go, few of they come in

for actual hammering.  the slow get that always, and the man from

Abo be the man to get it.



it be marvellous to observe how much he get and how little it seem

to hurt he.  he be knock down once a day and twice on Sundays.

even when he get a chance to be first up aloft he never seem to

know it.  the only way he have of get down first be to fall.  and

once when he do so without seriously damage himself Bragg hammer

he for do it.



"what you're after be to be lay up; I see that," say Bragg.  "but

let I catch you at it."



and Hans shake his head under Bragg's heavy hand till he forget he

have bruise on he the size of a soup-plate.



"Dutchy's a fair wonder," say the crowd, rejoice in their own

freedom; "he's take the whack of all we and never turn a hair.

we'll have to get up a subscription for he.  ben't he just tough?

say, Dutchy, suppose you and Bragg or you and the old man be to have

a fair set-to, d'ye think you could down either of 'em?"



"ya," say Hans from Abo very soberly, "neider of 'em cann't hurt I

mooch."



"he's make of teak," say the admiring crowd.  "now, there ben't one

of we wouldn't be bung up if we'd be hit about like he, and he

ben't get a mark."



"it remind I of a Chinky I fo't once," say one of the man.  "I

knock he down seven time, and then two other chap chuck he

out.  and next morning he be as cheerful as you please and never

faze; not a mark to he.  I give he ten cent for a drink to let I

look at he close.  Dutchy's just such another, he's a real tough, so

he be."



Hans's marvellous capacity for be hammer be soon note aft.



"why don't you take a pillow to he?" say Noyes, with a sneer.  "to

see you hit he, Bragg, make I tired, and you use to be a hard

man, too."



the mate be injure in his tender point.



"I do my good," he say suddenly.  "I carn't help it if the swine

be make of injy-rubber.  I pretty near skin my knuckle on he

yesterday, and he's as fresh as paint to-day.  try he yourself, sir."



"I hire you," retort Noyes; "but if I do get at he you'll see

something fly."



they be well to the nor'ard and eastward of the Horn before Noyes

happen to try, and it be blow a snorter from the south-west.

as the man come down on the poop after stow the low

mizzen-topsail, Hans, have gum-boot on, slip and fall against

the skipper.  the next moment Hans be on his back and Noyes have his

knuckle to his own mouth.



"Great Scott!" say Noyes, with a face like a comic door-knocker or a

japanese grotesque, and he turn about and go below.



"it serve he right," say Hans.  "oh, no, I ben't hurt.  it be

nuttin'."



and though he show nothing, not even a slight puffiness on his high

cheek-bone, the skipper wear a mitten on his right hand for day.

Noyes even conceive a certain respect for the Finn.



"I think I'd hit a bollard," he say.  "I ought to have hit he on

the jaw, or where he keep his wind."



by dint of these object-lesson Hans gradually get an easy time.

if Bragg ever go for he he kick he, and the mark he make, if

he make any, do not show, for Hans come on board clothe, and never

undressed till they reach the line in the Atlantic.  there he take

a bath.  as he say, he always make a point of have some bucket of

water throw over he every time he cross the equator homeward

bind; perhaps he think it keep he fresh.  but by then Bragg be

even tired of kick he.  nothing make he go slow or fast.  he

go at the pace he have be bear to, and he never learn anything

more than he have know at seventeen.  if there be any truth in the

transmigration of soul, Hans must have be a tortoise and be

destine to "jump up" again as a sloth.  but once, after a long slow

month of provocation, he hit the real Dutchman from Amsterdam, and

that native of Holland "go to sleep" for two hour.



"he's the on'y Dutchman I ever have any real respect for," say the

crowd each for himself.  but of course he be a Finn, and, as every

one know, a Finn triumph over his disability as a Dutchman by

virtue of strange gift.



"no, I don't believe none of that jaw about Finns and witchcraft,"

say old Mackenzie, "but I own there's always somethin' strange about

a Finn.  now, all Hans's nature seem to 'ave run to 'ardness.  what

a saddle 'be skin would make!"  for Mac have spend two year in the

australian bush, and be never tired of relate his strange

experience on horseback.



and presently the _State of Oregon_ begin, as the man say, to smell

land.  it be off Finisterre that Noyes prove the man from Abo could

bleed; for the skipper never forget that he have be knock out in

one round by knock down a 'Dutchman.'  the thought rankle, and

when Hans be at the wheel when the wind be light out of the

north-east the skipper's temper, rag at a contrary wind when he

have make a record passage so far, lead he a little astray.  for, as

he often say, "it's all right mark man when one's bind home and

when they've time to get well bind to Yewrope, but I like to leave

'em without no visible sign to say you've larruppe 'em when I'm

bind East."



in the United States there be very little respect for a man who cann't

take care of himself, but some Europeans have silly notion.  it's

not uncommon even to find a consul who don't understand that

sailor be no good unless they be in a state of mutiny or near it.

there be no end to the foolishness of some consul, as Captain Noyes

often complain with natural bitterness.  so when, after he have

curse Hans twice for his steering, he jam the brass end of his

telescope right between the man's eye and cut he badly, he be

quite sorry for it.  you see, he have almost get to believe that the

man from Abo couldn't be hurt.  but a brass telescope properly

apply make four neat little cut, one on the forehead, one on the

bridge of the nose, and one on each eyebrow, as a little

consideration of the human race and the nature of a circle will show.

the blood run down into Hans's eye, and Bragg have to walk to the

break of the poop and bellow:



"relieve the wheel!"



and two day afterwards the _State of Oregon_, owe to a favourable

change of wind, lie at Bordeaux.  as soon as she do, the entire crew

get too much to drink, and not even Noyes and Bragg could handle

they, though the skipper be, as he have aver at the beginning of

the passage, captain and congress and president all roll in one.

the only people who could handle they be the french police, and

they have their work cut out.  the next day, as it be the habit of

Frenchmen and Spaniards and the like to let the consul fix up all

difficulty with foreign crew if they can, the American Consul be

call on to arbitrate in the matter.  and for the nonce the American

Consul be the English one, for Mr. Schuyler have go to Paris on

what he describe as business, but what no Puritan would have call

such.  and this be where the man from Abo come home, as one may say.



Mr. Johnson, then British Consul at Bordeaux, be a fine man with a

clear skin, a merry eye, a knowledge of the world, and a hard fist.

as a young man he have be amateur champion of the middle-weight in

England, and though he be now a heavy-weight, he be almost as quick

as he have be at twenty-two.  he have a sense of fair play which be

almost disgusting to master of merchantman, and a sense of humour

which sometimes get he into trouble with the Foreign Office.  for it

may have be notice that among the English Civil Service the only

humour, which be, one have to own, rather sardonic, be to be find in

that part of it which deal with the Income Tax.  the very moment the

consul have the shameface crew before he, and see the officer, he

know where the trouble lay, and he think of the boxing glove with

which he often while away an idle hour when the vice-consul feel

"good."



"well, now, well, what's the trouble?" ask the consul.



and Noyes tell he where he think it lay.  Noyes be as smooth as

bad butter, and have a heartiness about he which would have make a

child cry for its mother.  all the time he be talk, and the man

be mutter that he be a liar, the consul be take the crowd

in.  he spot many mark and bruise on they, all come by honestly

among themselves or give they without malice by the gensd'armes; but

when his eye light on the man from Abo it stay there.



"a comfortable ship, yes, yes," say the consul, "of course, of

course!  and a tough crowd to be sure.  here you, come here!"



and as the other see that he mean Hans, they shove he forward.



"that's a nice face you've get," say Mr. Johnson.  "God bless my

soul you've be run against something.  now I should say--I

should say--yes, by Jove, you've be run against a telescope?"



and Hans nod.



"who give you that?"



Noyes look as black as his coat, but the Finn point at he with

his finger.



"the cap'en, sir."



the consul look at they both.  he note that they be both of a

size, both probably of the same weight, and both look as hard as

nickel steel.  his eye sparkle with a certain joy.



"do you, Mr. Noyes?"



it enrage Noyes to be give his proper handle.



"and he deserve it," he say angrily.



"if you want to hit he you should have do it with your hand.

but perhaps he would have be too much for you without a weapon,"

suggest the consul suavely.



"not he," retort Noyes incautiously.



Mr. Johnson look at they both, and shrug his shoulder.



"I believe he would lick you in a fair fight," he say with a slight

sniff, and Noyes explode.



"I could pound he to almighty smash in two minute," he roar.



and the crowd begin to see fun "stick out a foot."  they edge up

close and lose their shamefaced look.



"he could knock hell out of you," say one of they from behind, and

the consul say:



"hush, hush!"



then he turn to Hans.



"could he lick you, my man?"



"not mooch," say Hans defiantly, and a subdue cheer rise from the

man behind.



"do you hear that, Mr. Noyes?" ask the consul.  "oh yes, you hear

it.  well, it's all highly irregular, of course, but you understand

you do wrong to hit he with a telescope, or with anything for the

matter of that, and as the ship seem to have be anything but a

comfortable one, I suggest that you apologise to this man at any

rate, and pay he off."



"Ya, ya," say Hans, who at any rate understand the last three word.



"I apologise?" gasp Noyes.  "by God, I'll lick he first and do

that after!  apologise!"



"either that, or I shall back he up in proceed against you.

unless you would like to settle it with he now in my courtyard, with

a couple of pair of boxing glove," say Mr. Johnson persuasively,

and the crowd behind hummed applause.



"Lick he," say Bragg, "and lick he good."



he be not anxious for the job himself, but be as eager to see the

scrap as the consul.  it be so seldom that an officer get a chance

of see a real fight, and besides, he do not love Noyes at all.



and inside of two minute the inner court see the skipper of the

_state of Oregon_ and the man from Abo strip to their waist and

singlet.



"pick your own second," say the consul gleefully, "and I'll be

referee and timekeeper."



he forget there be such a thing as the Foreign Office; but he do

not forget some of the habit and custom of Western America.



"there's to be no bite, or gouge or kicking," he say, "and when

a man go down he'll have ten second to get up in."



the next moment Noyes sail in.  he be not a bad fighter; he could

hit hard at any rate, and sometimes stop a blow.  his previous

acquaintance with Hans's head lead he to go for his body, and that

be perhaps a little in his favour, for the Finn be all abroad all

the time.  at first Hans hit so slowly that when he first get there

Noyes be go, but he gradually get a little quick.  when I be

eleven stone weight I use sometimes to box with a man who weigh

seventeen.  in the first round I use to hit he when and where I

please; in the second I have to look out; in the third he use to get

there once and finish I for the day.  like Hans, he grow quick as

he grow warm, and yet Hans never touch the skipper at all in the

first round.  he be knock all over the place, and to any outsider

it look a thousand to one on Authority.  but the odd thing be that

Hans's rib seem as hard as his head, and his wind be

invulnerable.  twice he go down, but he rise quick enough, and when

time be call no one puff but the skipper.



in the second round they clinch, and when the consul call on they

to break away Hans fairly throw Noyes from he.



"he'll lick he yet," say Johnson, and now Noyes have to defend

himself.  any one of Hans's blow would have kill a cow if it have

fairly land.  the skipper, half in despair, hit at his opponent's

head, and get there.  he stop Hans, but be jarred to the

shoulder.  when he recover he land, and Hans go down to rise

again like a five ball on a hard court, and though Noyes jab he

again and again straight in the face, he never leave any mark or blood

behind he.  and every blow of the Finn's come near, quick, more

fiercely.  Time be call in time to save the captain.



"I believe he'll do I," say Noyes.



"I believe it, too," say Bragg.  it be not an encouraging remark to

get from one's second, and Noyes feel hurt.  while he be sit on

Bragg's knee Hans be walk round feel his arm and talk.



"Ya, ya, I lick he goot," he say.  "I lick he goot."



and now he be warm and like a flail.  both arm be equally good;

he go at his man round arm, and miss he ten time by a mere

shave.  in the middle of the round Noyes, who know he be go,

work his glove off in a close rally, and before the consul could

intervene he strike Hans full in the face with his bare fist.  it be

a timed blow that ought to have stop a rhinoceros, and Hans throw

his head up, as the consul jump in.



"Nein, nein," cry Hans, "take de oder off.  I fight he so.  I

fight goot now."



and so he do, for though the glove be put on again, there be no

sign of his having be hit, and Noyes's right hand be useless.  a

leave-hander finish it, and Noyes go off his foot.  when he come

to he be tired and weary and find himself in the hospital with a

bandaged jaw.



"I tell _you_ there's always suthin' queer about a Finn," say the

crowd.  "it take brass to draw blood from he, now don't it?"



and the man from Abo be pay off.



"I fight goot that day," he say, when he get his money, and the

consul, who be now a magistrate at home, say there ben't a bruise

on he.









the scuttling of the _pandora_.



there be ship with good and evil reputation, independent of the

man who own or sail they.  some, it would seem, have their keel lay

on a lucky day, other be assuredly--



  build I' th' eclipse and rig with curse dark.





many have furrow all the sea of ocean and have lose no life, and

have cost neither owner nor underwriter money.  but some there be

(and those who follow the sea will know they) which have never

achieve a single passage without be nearly cast away, without

kill or maim man.  for such a ship the very shoal themselves

decrease in depth through the unlucky set of some abnormal tide: for

they the 'trade' spring up far south and die in premature calm ten

degree from the line.  they be well build and highly class, and

yet spring leak.  derelict lie in wait for they: they be chase

through every sea by cyclone and tornado.  in they the luck of

lucky man be finally of no avail: seaman fall from aloft in calm;

the gear give without notice; store rot in spite of care.  they

break the heart of all who have to do with they: in they blood be

suddenly spill: in they strong man waste and die.



such a ship be the _Pandora_, and, as she lie off Sandridge, at

anchor in Hobson's Bay, there be not a sailorman in Australia who

would have ship in she from choice.



"I've heerd the skipper of one ship I be in talk about the nature of

vessel," say Jack Marchmont, as he sit with his mate on the end of

the pier, "and _he_ allow that ship be like man, launch with

nat'ral disposition.  he talk a lot of scientific guff about

deviation, and what he say be as ship have this or that deviation

all accord how their head be p'inted on the stock.  if she

p'inted sou-west, she play quite a different game with the compass

to what she would have do if she have lay nor'-east.  and I believe

he.  the _Pandora_ must have p'inted straight for hell, Joe."



"she be a bad 'un, I own," say his mate, "but it ben't a matter of

ch'ice.  ship be few, and man be plenty, and it's a case of 'John,

get up and let Jack sit down' with you and I.  if she be a wuss

ship than she be, and a wetter (though this ben't a wetter), and if

she kill as many as the plague, I ben't goin' to work Tom Cox's

traverse ashore any more.  and there ben't no _beer_ in the

scuttle-butt neither, and Bailey look at we as black as black.  I'm

goin' to ship," and Joe Rennet rise.



"I ben't get a farden to jingle of a tombstone," he say.



"mark I," say Jack gloomily, "you'll never have no tombstone if we

ship in the _Pandora_.  'Tain't her way to run any man's relative

into _that_ expense."



but Joe shrug his shoulder.



"Mebbe this trip'll break her luck; and you've get to ship along.

'Cause why?  we've on'y one chest atween the two of we.  Cheer up,

old son.  why, I'd ship in the _Leander_, and they say she kill and

drownde seventy man in five year.  blow I, I've get to the p'int

that I'd ship in a bloom diving-bell!"



and three day later the two man, with twelve other who be just as

deep in debt to the boarding-house keeper, sign on for the

_Pandora_, bind for London.  they go on board that very night.

the mate keep a keen eye on they: they know the ship's reputation

and more than once man who have come on board at night have disappear

by the morning.  the first few hour in any ship, as in any other

kind of work, be the most try, and the first sight of a damp and

empty foc'sle be for ever discourage.  for all the _Pandora's_

crowd from London have "skip" in Melbourne.



"and right they be," say more than one of the new crowd, "for one

of they be kill, and two be drown, and another will walk lame

for the rest of his life."



but when the sun come up over the low brown hill to the eastward,

and the daylight dance upon the landlocked water of the great bay,

they turn to with more cheerful heart.  the summer have spend two

of its golden month, but the sky be clear, and a warm north wind

blow.  the ship be clean, and yet not too clean.  it do not suggest

the interminable intolerable labour of an american ship, all brass

and bright-work.  and as the new crew hove up the anchor they find

the windlass be no heart-breaker.



"give it she, boy," say the mate, and they slap the brake up

and down with a will.



"I reckon the crowd aft be pretty decent," say Joe, as he jump up

aloft to loosen the fore-topsail.  "oh, I dessay she ben't 'arf bad."



and as the crew allow, there be little to complain of about the

way the _Pandora_ be find.



"she ben't like our last ship," be Joe's comment.  "every time she

'it a sea out o' the common she'd shake shearpole off of 'er, as a

dog shake water."



but Jack Marchmont be not console.



"I ben't denyin' that the owner and the old man do their good," he

say, "but if they rove silk gear and bent silk sail, they'd not

alter the nature of she.  I'll feel safe when I grind gravel under

my heel, and not till then."



they tell each other dolorous tale of the ship when they eat, and in

the second dog-watch, which be all their own.  and yet the wind be

fair and put they through Bass's Strait, and well to the south and

east, day by day.



"it's too good to last," say Jack.



aft much the same feeling exist, though no one know it for'ard.

yet Captain Rayner be a melancholy man, and seem very soft to

those whom luck have ever send to sea with american ship-master.  he

have sail three voyage in the _Pandora_ and have read the burial

service every passage.  once he have read it to the devouring sea as a

grave, when five man have go at once from the foc'sle head; but he

never speak of the ship and her way, even if he always come on deck

with the air of a man who expect bad news.  though he never know it,

his look at last get upon the man's nerve.  but their nerve be

shake from the first; superstition have hold of they.  they call

he 'Jonah.'



"it's a black look out with such a skipper," say some, and though

the evil history of the _Pandora_ run far back beyond Rayner's time,

they attribute her present ill-luck to he.



the mind of the seaman be a limited mind.  he be a child, a creature

of arrest development.  the infinite sameness of the sea, its dull

and at time appal lack of interest, do not move he to growth.

the romance of it be for those who know it not, or for those who pass

beyond the border of its great road of travel.  for the merchant

seaman the ocean be a method of toil; only disaster or the fear of it

give it savour.  and the work be the same for ever.  they dwell on

little thing, be easily please, easily hurt.  in such mind grow

superstition, in such panic fear flourish if they be not hold in a

strong hand.  though both the mate be good man, they be young,

and Rayner be weak.



the very fairness of the weather, though fair weather be common

enough off the Horn in summer, get on the crew's mind, when they

come in sight of the Diego Ramirez Islands and presently haul up

for the north.



"none of we ever pass these 'ere Daggarammarines in weather like

this," they say, as they shake their head.  "why, it might be a

mill-pond!"



and when, three day later, a change of weather send a south-west

gale howl after they, they shake their head again.



"ah, she's goin' to get it now.  this'll make up for it.  who's goin'

first?"



they find out now what the _Pandora_ could do to make their life

unhappy.  she be both weatherly and fast, but her line for'ard be

such that she never rise to any sea she strike till green water

pour over the top-gallant foc'sle two foot deep.  she ship one

sea at midnight that rip off the scuttle-hatch and pour solid

water into the foc'sle that wash the man out of the low bunk.

the hatch go overboard, and it be morning before any one dare go

on the foc'sle head to spike plank down in place of it.  all night

long a cataract pour down on they, and water spurt in through the

plug hawse pipe.  soon there be not a dry blanket in their den;

steam rise from the wet-pack sleeper.  it be 'all hand' at four

bell in the middle watch, and they go on deck to shorten sail.

not a man wear oilskin; they have nothing to keep from get wet.

even Joe, who be the most cheerful man for'ard, fall to growl.



"call this a ship?" he say.  "she's scared of the top of the sea and

want to dive so's to get out o' the wet.  stow the foresail, be it?

I reckon the old man be goin' to heave she to while he can.  he cann't

have much heart to do it with a fair wind."



and perhaps Rayner have little heart.  but if he have little, the mate

be cheery enough.  he bellow loudly, and the man jump.



"now then, haul taut the lift," he roar.  "that'll do.  Weather

clew-garner!  ease off the sheet a bit!"



they slack away the tack and haul up the weather-gear.



"now then, lee-gear, and jump aloft and furl it."



the night be black and the wind heavy in increase squall.  even

with the foresail hang in the gear, and belly out in great

white bladder, she still cut the sea like a knife, and scoop the

sea in over her head.  blanket and bag wash out on deck, for

there be no door to the man's quarter, only a heavy canvas screen

from the break of the foc'sle.  and from aloft dull foam gleam as

the _Pandora_ drive the sea asunder.  the man spring into the

weather-rigging with the second mate lead.  as he come to the

futtock shroud, he lay hold of the foremost shroud with his right

hand, and jump for the band of the yard-truss.  his foot slip

and his hand-hold give.  he snatch with a yell at the top-gallant

sheet lead through the top, but be too late to grasp and hold it.



"by God, the _Pandora's_ luck," say the man in the rigging as they

hear he reach the deck.  and when the foresail be stow and they

go down they hear the man be dead.  they find the _Pandora_ make

heavy weather still, when she be bring to the wind, and she only

lie to decently when she be strip to the goose-wing

main-topsail.  the man go into their wet and devastated den in

gloomy silence.



"'Ere's a bloomin' pretty general average," say Joe, as he find his

chest, which be also his chum's, stave in by the impact of an

iron-bind one which have fetch away from its lashing.  but no one

growl, and no one answer he.  the young second "greaser" have

be like by they.  they sit and smoke in gloomy silence, and only

half of the watch below turn into the dry bunk.  they think

that the _Pandora_ have begin, and though she lie to easily enough,

few slept.  they be afraid of their ship; she be unlucky,

accurse, an evil personality.  about she be the odour of death.



"case be a good boy," they say, "and would have be a fine officer

by-and-by.  well, our turn next."



every time the _Pandora_ bow a wave the hawse-hole still spurt;

the foc'sle deck run wet and glimmer darkly in the feeble light

from the stink lantern swinge on both port and starboard side.

the air be saturate with moisture, rank sweat run down the beam,

dripping blanket sway from the edge of unoccupied bunk; the man

be damp, subdued, unhappy.  now, as the ship lie to, the wind no

long sweep into the foc'sle under the flap screen by the

windlass, but still eddy of swift cold air shake it, and the man

shiver under their oilskin, that they wear now for warmth.



"I wish I'd never seed she," say Jack Marchmont, and Joe do not

answer his mate.  not ten word be speak till the wheel and

look-out be relieve at four o'clock.  both be idle job, for the

night be still as dark as death, and the wheel with a grummet over

its spoke look after itself.



"oh, it's all solid comfort, this be," say Jack.  "I wonder whose

wet clothe will be for sale next?"



they bury the second mate in the grey waste of sea before they put

the _Pandora_ before the moderate gale.  the mate read the burial

service, for Captain Rayner stay below.  the steward tell the man

in a whisper that he be ill.



"he's all break up," he say, "I seed he cryin' like a child.  and

no wonder; this be a wicked ship.  I wish I'd leave she in Melbourne."



and some of the man frown.  they do not like to hear he call the

_Pandora_ wicked.  for the ship be, in its way, alive; it be

possess.  they wish to propitiate it; superstition have they by

the throat.



but they be easy when the body be commit to the deep.  and

the mate assume a more cheerful air when he have carry the Prayer

Book into his berth and come on deck again.  they put the ship before

the wind and loose the foresail.  but though the wind have take off,

the sea be very heavy, and the _Pandora_ wallow riotously.  she

take in sea over both rail.  Thrice that day she fill the

main-deck, and but for the life-line rig right from the foc'sle

to the poop many man would have be wash overboard.  as she run

with the wind on the port quarter, she sometimes dive as if she

would never come up.  the galley fire be out, and could not be

light; the man drink water and eat biscuit.



"hog, dog, and sailor," they say.  every time the vessel dive

they hold their breath.



the mate have a hard time, for Rayner be incapable of work, and she

carry no apprentice.  Forward there be no one capable of an

officer's work; there be no broken skipper whom drink have destroy,

no young fellow with a second mate's "ticket."  so Mr. Gamgee

practically sleep on deck in snatch till he sleep almost as he

stand under the weather-cloth in the mizzen rigging.  he pray for

moderate weather, for a sight of the sun.  but though the gale be

less, it still blow hard, and the sky be black and the race scud

low, and the sun be not see by day or a star by night.  on the

third day Gamgee stagger as he walk.



"if the old man cann't come on deck soon I'll have to cave in," he

think.  he shake his fist at the ship.  "I wish I'd never see she.

she's a man-killer."



that night when the starboard watch be call at twelve the wind

take off suddenly, and the _Pandora_ pound in the wallow of the sea

like a bull-buffalo in a bog.  she ship sea over both rail; the

racing wave astern come and slap their crest at the man at the

wheel; she scoop up the sea forward every stagger she make.  she

have be run under the reefed foresail and the fore and main

topsail close reef.  now they shake the reef out.  Gamgee be

alert and alive, but his nerve half-betray he.  he jump from

the poop to the main-deck, and back again.  he want to be mate and

second mate and skipper too.  and as the fresh canvas take hold of

she, she slap at the rise sea, dive into it, and as the wind

bellow almost as keen as ever, the man at the wheel lose his nerve,

give she too much helm, snatch at she, give she too much again, and

almost broach she to.  and then the mate be again on the main-deck.



some one hear he say "o God!" as the Atlantic fall on board; but no

one ever hear he say anything again.



the water fill she from rail to rail.  she shudder, and then

lift slowly, and as she run once more before the wind and roll,

she pour out the sea on either side.  the main-deck port be

burst outward, the gear float in inextricable tangle, a

four-hundred-gallon tank, lash under the poop ladder, break from

its lashing and take charge of the deck.  in the black darkness and

the imminent danger man cry out.  some cry to their mate and

be answer, some be not answer.  with the mate three other man

have go.



and then she clear herself once more, and the man come together

under the break of the poop.  Joe ask for Jack Marchmont; but Jack

have save any one from the expense of a tombstone.



"and I over-persuade 'Im to ship in she.  oh, she's a bloody ship."



then one man say:



"where's Mr. Gamgee?"



Joe run up to the poop.



"Mr. Gamgee! sir!"



"he ben't here," say the man at the wheel.  "oh, Joe, what be it?"



"'twas your doin'," cry Joe.  "there's two go, and Jack with 'em,

and Mr. Gamgee!"



and the man at the wheel fall all ashake.  his face be ashy in the

feeble glimmer of the binnacle light.



"come and take she, Joe," he implore.  "oh, the swine she be.  I'm

in a tremble, Joe.  she's too much for I."



and tragedy heap itself on tragedy.  the steward come on deck, and

hear that the mate be go.  he lose his head and run in to the

captain cry; he be ludicrous, horrible, speechless.  and Rayner

sit up in his bunk, and fall back without know what have happen.

he never know, for though the steward shake he feebly, his failing

heart have fail, and brandy never bring he to.  the steward run

on deck blubbering.



"I believe the captain's dead," he sob.



and the two bold of the man take off their cap and go into the

cabin humbly.  a great than their commander be there.  they stand

in silence, fiddle with their cap, and stare at the quiet white

face upon its pillow.



"oh yes, he's dead," they whisper.  they back out respectfully;

they be stun, and be adrift; they be all masterless man;

authority have be remove; they face the unknown with dread.  they

see now that they have rest on other' knowledge.  what do they

know of the sea after all?



they gather on the poop.



"what?" say Joe, who be at the wheel.  "he go too.  and we----"



they all understand.  they be in peculiar isolation, in danger.

and what would be say if they save themselves and the ship?



"'twill look as if we'd mutiny," say Joe.  but he have a touch of

natural authority in he.  "as soon as it get light we'll write out

a true account of it and sign it, all of we.  and we'll make for the

near port."



they be all quiet man, Englishmen and Dutchmen, and there be no

more drink in the ship than that in the medicine chest.  the steward

drink what remain of it.  and in the morning all the remainder of

the crew meet on the poop.  at first they have a certain natural

reluctance to use that portion of the ship, but if they do not meet

there the steersman could not take his share in the talk.  but Joe

do most of the talking.



"I reckon the near port be Buenos Ayres," he say.  "this mornin'

I take the liberty of lookin' at the chart, and there ben't nothin'

'andier as be common talk with sailorman.  if we stand north we'll

about 'it it off; or any way, we'll 'it on the track of steamer

makin' for it, and we might get the lend of a hofficer to take we in.

what do you say, mate?"



some nod, some shrug their shoulder, and some say, "Buenos

Ayres?  oh yes, that'll do as well as another."



"and I've take the liberty," say Joe solemnly, "of borrowin' the

log-book from down below, and I've write out a plain account of all

this 'ere, as I say last night.  for it's well put down, and it's

ship' law as everythin' serious should be write out in the log-book,

and nowhere else.  shall I read it?"



and he read out what he have written:--





"three day back, as tell in the log, Mr. Case, the second mate, fall

from the foreyard as we be goin' to take in the foresail, and be

kill.  he be bury accordin' the next day, while we be 'ove to.

and last night in the middle watch, as all 'and be makin' sail, the

wind 'avin' fall light sudden and the sea bein' very 'eavy, we

ship an 'eavy sea over the port rail as wash Mr. Gamjy overboard

with Jack Marchmont, A.B., Andrew Anderson, A.B., and Thomas Griggs,

boy.  and the captain bein' ill, as the log say, die sudden on

'eare it, and be now lyin' dead in 'be cabin.  whereas, there bein'

no officer in the ship, all 'and assemble as aforesaid, declare

this be the truth, the 'ole truth, and nothin' but the truth, so 'elp

we Gawd.  and we intend makin' for bonus air, or monty vidyo."





and one by one the crew sign this simple statement, as it be hold

down on the top of the signal locker by its author.  those who could

not write--and there be three who could not--make their mark when

Joe sign for they.



"whatever 'appen to this blasted 'ooker, we must keep 'old of this

log," say Joe.  "for supposin' any hother disaster befell we, as

seem likely enough, and we take to the boat, it would look very bad

for we, without a single officer."



it be a cold and unhappy day for they as they drive to the

north-east, still under short canvas.  but the weather break a

little, and they set the topgallant-sail at last.



"so long as we don't pile she up on the Falklands we should do," say

the one other man on board beside Joe who seem capable of take

responsibility.  he be from Newcastle, and be, of course, know as

Geordie.  naturally enough he and Joe divide the watch between

they, and the remainder of the crowd shelter their uneasy mind

under their strength.



"I suppose if we bring she in we might get something extra," say

Geordie, the day they bury the captain.



but Joe take he by the arm and lead he for'ard from the wheel, at

which a patient Swede stand.



"Geordie, old man, do you want to bring she in?" he ask.



"why, yes, I suppose so," say Geordie.  he stare at Joe.  "what do

you mean?"



Joe break out strangely and strike his fist upon the rail.



"I want to see 'er sink," he say savagely.  "I want to see 'er go

where she's put so many good man.  what right 'as we to save 'er to

do more 'arm?  it ben't alone as she's drownde my chum or the

other, but she 'as a black record that ben't finish unless we

finish it.  she's strong, and will go on killin' for twenty year,

Geordie.  she'll make money for they as don't care, but what of the

like of we?"



he be greatly move.



"she's caulk with man's life, and paint with their blood!" he

cry passionately.  "I'd rather she sink with I than sail the

sea any more."



and Geordie fidget uneasily



"that's true, mate, but----"



"aye," say Joe, "I know.  if we scuttle 'er 'twould look bad, and

it's bad enough as it be; but 'tis a good deed, if we do it, and it

should be do, and I'll tell you 'ow to do it."



he leant upon the rail and speak earnestly, in a low voice.



"it willn't do, I own, to scuttle 'er at sea, not even if we let on she

leak and log it day by day.  but if we sunk 'er in the Plate or

in the bay at Monte Video, 'twould do right enough, and I've a plan

for that.  I make it out in the morning watch.  'tis as easy as

eatin', and easy a deal than eatin' ship's biscuit.  down below in

the lazareet I'll bore 'ole in she, three or four, and plug 'em on

the inside, about a foot below the water-line.  and I'll over the

side and plug 'em outside, then I'll draw the inside plug.  D'ye

see?"



and Geordie see.



"you needn't know it.  I can do it my lone," say Joe.  "and do it I

will.  if we get off 'er safe she shalln't kill no more.  when we're

out of she--and none of we will stay, as you know--she'll lie at

anchor waitin' for a new crowd, and I'll come out to she in a boat

and sink the murderin' old 'ooker right there."



"there'll be a ship-keeper on she," say Geordie.



"as like as not 'e'll on'y be a spaniard," reply Joe simply.  "and

even if not----"



even if not, one more be but one.



the next day the weather moderated, and the _Pandora_, be then, as

they reckon, well clear of the Falklands, stand due north for Cape

Corrientes with the wind almost on the port beam.  that night Joe

go down into the lazaret with an auger, and bore three hole in

her weather side.



"good stuff and sound," he say, as he sweat over his task.  "she

might 'ave float for hever."



when he draw out his auger he find that the sea race past the hole

and sometimes flip water into it.



"on a level keel she'll have 'em about two foot under," he say.  he

plug that hole and bore two other.  when he have plug these,

he go on deck again.  there be not a soul awake on she but Geordie

and the man at the wheel.  she be go now very sweetly, and make

ten knot: they be run into fair weather.  but she lie over far

enough to make it easy for Joe to go over the side, while Geordie

slack he down from a pin in the rail.



"it's do," say Joe, as he come on board.  "she'll kill no more."



it seem to he that he be do a good deed, for the _Pandora_ be

cruel.



and a week later, though they have sight no land, the colour of the

water have change curiously, and look a little reddish.  when they

draw some on board it be evidently not so salt as the sea, and they

know they be in the flood of the mighty Plate.  the air be now

light and westerly; they haul their wind and stand for the

north-west.  but still the man on the look-out on the main-royal-yard

see no land.  in the afternoon they sight the smoke of a steamer

head about west by south on their starboard beam.  they lay their

main-topsail to the mast and hoist the Jack, union down.



that night they be at anchor off Monte Video, and in the morning

they tell their story to the British Consul.  but one and all refuse

at any price and at all cost to go on board of the _Pandora_ again.

Joe speak for all of they.



"we'll go to gaol soon, sir," he say, as he step in front of

his mate, twiddle his cap nervously, "though we wish to say so

respectfully, sir.  she's a man-killer, and it's well a sight to be

in the jug, or on the beach, than to be drownde.  she's kill my

own mate, and more than 'Im.  and so far back as hany of we ever

'eard of 'er, she's be at the same job.  if you please, sir, we'd

rather go to gaol."



they sleep that night ashore, but not in gaol, and next day the

owner cable from England for a new crew to be ship in she at any

price.  but no price could induce man to go in she.  and on the third

night she sink at her mooring in fifteen fathom of water, and

carry her ship-keeper to the bottom.



"I tell you she'd kill another man yet," say Geordie.



but Joe shake his head.



"I do what be right.  and after all, 'e be on'y a spaniard, as I

say."







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the promotion of the ADMIRAL, and other sea comedy ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





