The project Gutenberg eBook of John Holdsworth, Chief Mate

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: John Holdsworth, Chief Mate



author: William Clark Russell



Release date: March 8, 2017 [ebook #54303]

                most recently update: October 23, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Henry Flower and the Online Distributed

        Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

        produce from image generously make available by the

        Internet Archive/American Libraries.)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK JOHN HOLDSWORTH, CHIEF MATE ***



  JOHN HOLDSWORTH

  CHIEF mate









by the same AUTHOR.



  _Crown 8vo, handsomely bind in cloth, 6s.; also in new series,

  uniform with this volume, 3s. 6d._



a sea queen.



LADY MAUD.



the wreck of the GROSVENOR. also, Quarto Edition, paper cover, 6d.



JOHN HOLDSWORTH, CHIEF mate.



LITTLE LOO.



JACK’S COURTSHIP.



a strange voyage.



a SAILOR’S SWEETHEART.



MY WATCH below.



an OCEAN FREE LANCE.



the frozen pirate.



SAILORS’ LANGUAGE. a Dictionary of Sea Terms. Crown 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6d.





  LONDON:

  SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVINGTON,

  _limited_,

  ST. DUNSTAN’S HOUSE, FETTER LANE, E.C.









  JOHN HOLDSWORTH

  CHIEF mate



  BY W. CLARK RUSSELL

  AUTHOR of

  ‘the wreck of the GROSVENOR,’ ETC.



  _sixth and CHEAPER EDITION_



  LONDON:

  SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVINGTON,

  _limited_,

  ST. DUNSTAN’S HOUSE, FETTER LANE, FLEET STREET, E.C.

  1889.









content.





          CHAPTER I.

                                           PAGE

  SOUTHBOURNE                                 1



          CHAPTER II.



  to the DOWNS                               17



          CHAPTER III.



  DOWN channel                               29



          CHAPTER IV.



  in THE ATLANTIC                            35



          CHAPTER V.



  a GALE of WIND                             47



          CHAPTER VI.



  TAKEN ABACK!                               58



          CHAPTER VII.



  in the BOATS                               80



          CHAPTER VIII.



  the second DAY                             93



          CHAPTER IX.



  the THIRD DAY                             103



          CHAPTER X.



  the fourth day                            113



          CHAPTER XI.



  the FIFTH DAY                             127



          CHAPTER XII.



  the sixth and SEVENTH day                142



          CHAPTER XIII.



  the tenth DAY                             150



          CHAPTER XIV.



  HOLDSWORTH’S RECOVERY                     162



          CHAPTER XV.



  “no light, but rather darkness, VISIBLE”  172



          CHAPTER XVI.



  SAILORS’ SYMPATHY                         180



          CHAPTER XVII.



  a presentation                            189



          CHAPTER XVIII.



  SYDNEY                                    201



          CHAPTER XIX.



  HOMEWARD BOUND                            207



          CHAPTER XX.



  an INSPIRATION                            220



          CHAPTER XXI.



  for HANWITCH                              236



          CHAPTER XXII.



  SOUTHBOURNE                               247



          CHAPTER XXIII.



  reflection                               258



          CHAPTER XXIV.



  HANWITCH                                  262



          CHAPTER. XXV.



  in the ELLESMERE road                     274



          CHAPTER XXVI.



  over the WAY                              283



          CHAPTER XXVII.



  FATHER and child                          300



          CHAPTER XXVIII.



  DOLLY’S thought                          324



          CHAPTER XXIX.



  a visit                                   333



          CHAPTER XXX.



  the KNOT be CUT                           352



          CHAPTER XXXI.



  HUSBAND and WIFE                          367





  POSTSCRIPT                                381









JOHN HOLDSWORTH, CHIEF mate.









CHAPTER I.



SOUTHBOURNE.





in a period of english history which graybeard call the good old

time--the fine old time; that be to say, when Parliament be

horribly corrupt, and the Poor Laws as barbarous as the inquisition;

when it take fifteen hour to go from London to Dover; and when at

least one-half of the convenience which we now very reasonably call

the necessity of life have no existence--Southbourne be a small

straggling village, and, by reason of the quaint and primitive aspect

of its house, something, even in those good old time, like an

anachronism on the face of the land. what be now a well-look street,

fairly paved, and decorate with a number of showy shop-windows,

be then an uneven road, with great space of grassy land, dusty

and closely nibble by goat, between the house; whilst the house

themselves be mostly gable-roof, with latticed window, which

serve excellently to exclude the light, and which give a blank and

lack-lustre look to the edifice, as though they be weary to death of

the view over the way.



yet, in spite of its architectural deformity, Southbourne be such

a place as would weave its homely interest about a man’s heart, and

be present to his mind when gay and splendid scene be forget. at

the very entrance of the village, as you go into the street out of

the dusty London Road, stand the King’s Arms Inn, a long, low-build,

white-faced tavern, with a great sign-board hung flagwise over the

doorway, which, when the wind be fresh, would swing with hoarse

outcry, as though urge the distant wayfarer to make haste and enjoy

the welcome that be to be obtain, for a few penny, from the stout,

well-feed host who preside within. opposite this tavern stand a decent

farmhouse, its thatched roof black with time, begirt with wall and

paling, within which, when the harvest moon be high, great stack of

hay would rear their gold-colour side, and make the air as sweet as

the smell of new milk. and all about this pleasant farmhouse be apple

and cherry tree, under whose shadow a vast family of cock and hen

hold the day eternally busy with their voice; while pig in unseen

sty grunt their hungry discord, and do their lazy good to drown

the mournful cooing of dove in wicker cage, and the cheerful note of

the bird, who be attract in countless number to the farmyard.



between these two house run what the villager call the High

Street; and the eye follow the road, patch here and there with

dark-colour grass, for nearly a third of a mile, note the

gable-roof house that look at each other from either side;

the blacksmith’s shed, where the bellow be always roar; the

flat-roof baker’s shop, stand importunately forwards, away from

the little house in which the baker live; the butcher’s hard by;

the apothecary’s next to that; and the linendraper’s shop, which have

absorb the frontage of no less than two solemn-look house--note

these and other detail contribute to the carnal or frivolous

interest of the place, until it settle upon a small building, which,

stand in the centre of the road, narrow it into a large and a

small lane, and thus mark the extent and importance of the High

Street.



our story open on a summer’s evening. the daylight be still abroad

upon the distant hill-top, but the twilight have fall like an

inaudible hush upon Southbourne, and the farmyard be tranquil, save

when, now and again, some uncomfortable hen seek a resting-place

near to her sovereign cock hop for his perch, but in hopping fall and

awaken the sleeper with her flutter scramble and keen note of

distress, echo by a hundred wonder throat.



the evening be warm, and many of the house door be open; and at

these open door sit, here and there, man in their shirt-sleeve, or

in homely smock, smoke long pipe, and address each other from

across the road with voice bespeak laborious thought, which demand

many reflective puff to clarify and adjust. now the apothecary’s

boy come out and light the coloured lamp over the door, while the

apothecary within set two wax candle against his brilliant globe of

lustrous dye and illuminate the darksome roadway with a crimson and a

yellow gleam. now the linendraper’s assistant step forth and put up

the shutter to his master’s window, whilst the master himself strut

along the floor, flap his counter with a dust-brush, and inhale

the appetising perfume which stream from an inner room, and which

be the good assurance he could demand that his supper be prepare.

Anon come a lame man, arm with a ladder, a lanthorn, and a can of

oil at his girdle; he set the ladder against a lamp-post, and in five

minute’ time succeed in kindle a faint uncertain light in the

darkle air. Thrice do he perform this laborious duty, and then, lo!

the High Street be illuminate.



these light seem to act as signal for sundry group of gossip,

stand here and there along the dusty road, to disperse. the small

cackle of talk, like the click of wheel drive against spring,

cease; the old hobble towards the house, the young follow yet more

leisurely; the gloom deepen; one by one the door be closed and

little yellow light twinkle mistily upon the lattice window. and

now, though the clock of St. George’s Church have not yet toll the

half-hour past eight, one may easily see that the good village of

Southbourne, with one eye upon the candle, costly at sixteenpence the

pound, and another eye upon the early hour that be to expel it from its

slumber into the field and the workshop, be make what haste it can

to creep with heavy eyelid into bed.



       *       *       *       *       *



in the house that look askant down the road and break the

thoroughfare into lane, there be a sorrow at work that should seem

absolutely inconsistent with the serenity and peace of the summer

evening outside.



three person be seat in a cosy room; a tall lamp on a table shed a

soft light upon the wall; the window be open, and the large tremulous

star look in through the branch of the elm which front the little

building. how sweet be the smell of the clematis about the window!

and see, a great black moth whirr towards the lamp and occupy the

silence with its vigorous slap against the ceiling.



the old woman in the high-back chair, look down upon her placid

hand, be a perfect picture of handsome old age: hair white as snow;

a sunken cheek touch with a hectic that pass well for, if indeed

it be not, the bloom of health; a garrulous under lip; a mild and

benevolent expression. she be dress in an antique satin gown, and a

fine red silk handkerchief, as large as a shawl, be pin about her

shoulder.



face she sit a young man, broad-shoulder and bronze, with large

lustrous black eye and dark wavy hair. he wear a pilot cloth coat and

black trouser, bell-mouthed at the foot, and a plain silver ring upon

his left hand.



close beside he, on a low chair, sit a young girl, with a sweet and

modest face, and bright yellow hair which shine in the lamplight like

gold, and blue eye fill now with tear.



so they sit, so they have sit, for many minute in silence, and nothing

be hear but the ticking of the clock on the mantelpiece, or the

awkward moth that hit the ceiling, or now and again the melancholy

plaint of some dream or belate bird from the dark country that

stretch outside like a vision under the throb starlight.



presently the old lady, lift her head, say:



“I don’t think it please God that people’s heart should be sorrowful.

nothing should grieve we but the fear of his anger; and if there be

truth in religion, and any wisdom in human experience, there be nothing

in this world that should make we sad.”



the girl press her hand to her eye, and answer in a broken voice:



“John and I have never really be part before.”



“we never can be part, dolly, my sweet little wife,” say the young

man. “there be a fear of parting before, but none now, dear one.

I be only leave you for awhile--and that be not part, be it,

grandmother? parting be separation, and those whom God have join

cannot be part, cannot be part, my dolly!”



“ay, that be right!” exclaim the old lady. “John be only leave you

for awhile--you cannot be part--remember that.”



“but it be to be a long while, and my heart will be so lonely without

he, granny.”



the old lady give her head a dispirit shake.



“it be all go and come in this world,” say she. “to-day here,

to-morrow there: ’tis like breathe on a mirror.”



“no, no!” cry the young fellow, “that be a melancholy simile. life be

something more than a breath. I would be content to know nothing but

its sorrow, rather than think it the hollow illusion people call it.

oh, dolly, you must cheer up and help to give I heart. I want all the

courage I can get. after this voyage we needn’t be separate any more.

remember, next year I shall be skipper, and then I can take you to sea

with I.”



“if next year have only come!” the poor little girl sob, and let she

face fall upon her husband’s hand.



“Nay, nay,” the old lady chide, gently, “’tis thy business to help and

support thy husband, dolly. will tear help he? resolution be soften

by they, and make weak and womanish. your mother before you, my child,

know what it be to part from your father. he once go to Spain, and

for many month we know not whether he be live or dead. you be a

little child then. what come to she, come to I, and must come to you

as it come to all woman who will need transplant their own heart

into man’s. know this, dolly, that no love be purely sweet that have not

know trial and affliction.”



“hear that, my little one,” say the young husband, stoop his head

until his lip touch his wife’s ear. “let we seek a blessing in

our grief, and we shall find one. it teach I to know my love for

you--our love for each other. be not such knowledge bless?”



“see here, dolly,” continue the grandmother, battle with the

tear provoke by the influx of hurrying memory which follow she

reference to her own child, dolly’s mother. “when John be go, we will

put up a calendar against the wall in your bedroom; and every night,

after we have worship God, we will prick off a day, and you shall

see how quickly the calendar grow small under our hand. I be seventy

year old, and it be but the other day that I be dance your mother

in my arm, and I be a young woman, and your grandfather a hearty man,

with brown hair under his wig, and bright big eye like your. why,

that be fifty year ago, and it seem but yesterday! many’s the bitter

tear I have shed, and the grief I have bear; but the time _I_ mourn

cannot come back to I, they be go for ever--my life be but an empty

chamber now; there be no fire in the grate, and the chair be vacant,

and I feel so lonely that I sometimes wish I be dead. but what be your

grief? it be but a few month’ separation, and every day that die

will give you happiness. it be not so with other, nor with I--no! no!”



as the old grandmother speak, with some perception, perhaps, of that

rather discreditable characteristic of human nature which find the

good solace for its own trouble in the consolation that be work out

of the grief of other, the girl gradually raise her head and fix

her eye wistfully on her husband’s, then lay she cheek against his

shoulder, as a child would whom its tear have wear out.



“Grandmother,” say the young man, “I leave my Dolly to your care, and

I know you will love and cherish she as though you be sure that any

ill that come to she would break my heart.”



“she cannot be dearer to I than she always be,” answer the old

lady, solemnly; “but be sure, John, that I’ll take extra care of she,

since her preciousness be double by be dear to you and have your

life bind up in her.”



“and you will keep her heart up with happy thought of I,

grandmother,” continue the young fellow, his dark eye make infinitely

tender by the shadow of tear, “and bid she remember that when the wind

blow here it may be a summer calm where I be, and blue sky when there

be thunderstorm here. you’ll remember this, dolly?”



“yes, John.”



“the calendar be a good thought of grandmother’s. or you may watch the

flower, dolly; you’ll see they fade away and leave the ground bare.

by-and-by they’ll spring up again, and they will be a promise that I

be come back to you--come quickly--quick as the wind will blow

I--back to my little wife, to my sweet wife, dolly.”



she sob quickly with renew passion, and clasp his hand.



there be a childlike beauty in her face that make her sorrow

infinitely touch for he, who love she with all the strength of his

great heart, to behold. he look wistfully at the old grandmother; but

she, more powerless than he, be brood over the to-morrow which

be to come when he should have go away and leave she alone with

dolly’s grief.



“I have a mind,” she say at last, “to send for Mr. Newcome, the

rector. he should be able to point out to dolly well than either of

we can, that there be something unrighteous in suffer our heart to

be overcome by any dispensation God in his wise providence may choose

to ordain.”



“no, I don’t want Mr. Newcome,” sob dolly. “I must cry, granny. when

John be go, I’ll dry my eye, and think of nothing but the time when

he be to come back to I. but whilst I see he, and know that this time

to-morrow he will be go, I cann’t help cry, indeed I cann’t, granny.”



“ay, my dear, but if your tear could bind he to you, and take the

place of his duty which summon he away, they would be very well. but

it be your place to help he in his trouble, as it be his to help you

in your; and see what a lonesome air his face have as he watch you,

because he feel himself away from you by your refuse to listen to

the word he try to comfort you with.”



“I would give my right hand to save dolly from these tear,

grandmother,” say John, “but it be her love that fret. by-and-by her

eye will grow bright, for she will know that every hour which pass

after I have leave she be bring we near to next summer, when we

shall be together again.”



“but a year be such a long time,” wail dolly. “it be four time over

again the month we have be together, and it seem age ago since

you come home, John. and granny don’t know the danger of the sea.

you have never talk to she as you have to I. haven’t you tell I of

shipwreck, and how man fall overboard, and how some ship catch fire

and not a creature save of all a great ship’s crew?”



“yes, dolly,” he answer, smooth her bright hair; “but I have

always say that the sea ben’t more dangerous than the land. there’s

danger everywhere for the matter of that, ben’t there, grandmother?”



“oh dear yes,” groan the old lady; “there be death go on all

about we, on the dry land, quick as our pulse beat.”



“ay, true enough, grandmother,” rejoin John; “more death be go

on ashore than be go on at sea. but why do we talk of death? People

part and meet again--why shouldn’t we? there be no end to trouble if

once we begin to think of what _may_ happen. a man should put his trust

in God”----



“yes, that first, that chiefly,” interrupt the grandmother.



“and fight his way onward with as much courage and hope and resolution

to win as though there be no such thing as death in the world at all.

when I bid you good-bye, dolly, I shalln’t say good-bye, _perhaps for

ever_; no! no! I will say good-bye till next summer. summer be sure to

come, and why shouldn’t it bring I back?”



“we will pray God that it will,” exclaim the grandmother.



       *       *       *       *       *



thus these honest heart talk and hope; but, in truth, the parting

be more bitter than dolly could bear.



on this, the eve of her husband’s leave she, she could see no promise

in time, no sunshine in the long and dismal blank that stretch before

she. she be quite a young bride, have be marry only three month;

but his presence have already become a habit to she, a portion of her

life, a condition of her happiness.



she have engage herself to he eighteen month since, not many week

before he sail on his last voyage; but though she have learn to love

he tenderly as her sweetheart, his going do not then afflict she as

it now do. he be only her lover then, but now he be her husband.

she be ardent when she become his wife, flush with the sweet and

gracious emotion of her new state, and because the thought of the

approach time throw a shadow upon her happiness, she drive it deep

down in her heart, out of sight almost, and so unfit herself for

bravely encounter the certain trouble that be to come.



it have come now; its full weight be upon she; she think it must

break her heart.



when we find they, they have not long return from the last walk they

be to take together for many a weary month; and it be so bitterly

sad to they both, that no word can express its pathos. they be

surround by familiar and beloved object; and every detail that have

heretofore make up the colour and life of their married love now come,

each with its special pang of sorrow, to tell they that their dream

be dissolve, and that their embrace, their whisper--indeed their

very hope--must be postpone until a period so far off, that it seem

as if no time would ever bring it to they. the poor fellow do his

utmost to inspirit she; all the unsubstantial comfort he strive to lay

to his own heart he give to she; but his broken voice make his cheery

assurance more sad even than her tear; and down by the little river,

when the evening have gather, and the soft star be look upon

they, he have give way to his grief, and weep over she as if the form

he press to he be lifeless.



the story of his courtship and marriage be as simple as the pastoral

life of the village in which it occur.



he have be call to Southbourne by his aunt, who live there, and

who feel herself die. he have then just return from a ten month’

voyage. he be fond of his aunt, as the only live relative he have,

and come to she at once. at her house--indeed, by her bedside--he meet

Mrs. Flemming, dolly’s grandmother. Mrs. Flemming take a fancy to he,

admire his handsome face, his honest character, the cordial tenderness

of his nature, which he illustrate by his devotion to his sick aunt,

and ask he to her house, where he meet dolly.



he fall in love with she; and then, but not till then, he find

that Southbourne be an infinitely well place to live in than the

neighbourhood of the West India Docks.



dolly be an innocent little creature, and hardly know at first what to

make of the love she have inspire in her grandmother’s young friend;

but by degree the old story be read through between they, and the

last chapter find they betroth with Mrs. Flemming’s full consent.



meanwhile the aunt have die and leave she little saving to her nephew,

who give the money to Mrs. Flemming to take care of for he until he

come home. he be then chief mate, age twenty-eight. when thirty he

be to command a ship, his employer promise. so when he return,

twenty-nine year old, with only another year before he to serve out

as a subordinate, he claim Mrs. Flemming’s leave to marry dolly; and

within three week from the time of his arrival they be man and wife.



there could be no hitch: there be nobody’s leave but Mrs. Flemming’s

to get. he and dolly be both of they orphan. her parent have die

when she be a little girl; his, some year before this story begin.

his father have be skipper in the service John belong to, and the

shipowner’ favourite captain. indeed, Captain Holdsworth have serve

his employer well, and as a token of their gratitude, they keep their

eye on his son; which mean that he be appoint the moment he have

pass his examination as first mate, and be to be skipper at an age

when a good many in the service be just enter upon their duty as

second in command. but this only really argue that the owner know a

smart seaman when they see he. Young Holdsworth be that; and critical

as be the jealousy his quick promotion excite, there be not a man

who could be get to say that Jack Holdsworth ben’t as good a sailor as

ever trod upon shipboard.



the first thing he do, when he have the bann put up at St. George’s,

be to rent the little house that turn its shoulder upon the

southbourne main road, and furnish it with the money his aunt have leave

he. that be to be dolly’s and grandmother’s home. Old Mrs. Flemming

have some furniture of her own and an annuity; this last she be to club

with John’s pay, which dolly be to draw every month, and so they would

have money enough to keep they as lady. but the old grandmother’s

furniture be very crazy: she of course think it beautiful and

elegant; but this do not prevent the chair from break when John

sit on they, nor the leg of the table from come off when they be

hand through the door. such of these relic as do not go to piece

be put into her bedroom, at her particular request, because they

enable she to realise old time; the rest vanish in a cloud of dust

into a distant auction-room, and be never hear of more.



the young people’s life be an idyl until the time approach for

Holdsworth to sail. they go away for a week after they be marry,

and dolly see life: that is, she see London, which frighten she, and

she be very glad to get home. they have pretty nearly three month

before they, and that seem to give they plenty of time to enjoy

themselves in. to be sure, the little cloud upon the horizon grow

big and big every day, and dolly see it, and know that in three

month’ time it would have overspread the heaven, and fill the earth

with its leaden shadow; but she shrink from look in that direction,

and fix her eye on the blue sky overhead, and be as gay under its

brightness as if it be never to know an eclipse.



Mrs. Flemming and dolly have several friend in Southbourne, and during

these month tea-party be pretty frequent. even the rector

ask they to tea, and go to drink tea at their house; and this

occasion be a celebrated one, for the rector be a kind, whimsical

old gentleman, and insist on a game of forfeit be play. there

be three girl besides dolly present, so kissing be practicable;

and loud be the laughter when it fall to the rector’s lot to kiss

Mrs. Flemming, which he do with such a courtier-like air, that,

under its influence, the grandmother’s memory unfold itself; and

she instruct the company, in a tremulous voice, and with a lean,

underscoring forefinger, in the behaviour of the man of _she_ day,

when man _be_ man, etc. etc. hunt the slipper follow the forfeit,

and the evening be close with port-negus, October ale, and dish of

fruit, sandwich, and sweetmeat.



hour so spend would make just such a memory as would keep a man’s

heart warm in his bosom under any sky, in any clime, in calm or in

storm. year after the very inscription on the tomb of the rector

and Mrs. Flemming be scarcely to be read amid the encrust moss

and the toothmark of time, John Holdsworth remember that evening:

how, flush as the two Miss Lavernes be into positive prettiness by

laughter and Mr. Jackson the curate’s discreet kiss, dolly look a

queen to they; how her sweet eye have peep at he over the rector’s

shoulder, as the worthy clergyman claim his forfeit; how she hang

about he and sport, as any infant might, at his side, with she

laughter never so ringing and melodious as when her hand be in his.

how the kindly grandmother have hobble about the room, with rusty

squeak of laughter in her mouth, to elude the rector’s reluctant

pursuit; how Miss Nelly Laverne blush, and giggle, and toss she

head about when Mr. Jackson kiss she....



the curtain be fall, the light be dim, and now tear and

sigh and heartrende yearning be make a cruel ending of the

pleasant summer holiday.









CHAPTER II.



to the downs.





the “Meteor” be a full-rig ship of eleven hundred ton, with

paint port and a somewhat low freeboard, which give she a rakish

look. her figure-head represent a woman, naked to the waist, emerge

from a cloud, and be really a sweet piece of carving. she be a ship

of the old school, with big stern window, and a quaint cuddy front and

heavy spar. yet, build after the old-fashioned model, her line be

as clean as those of an Aberdeen clipper.



she make a glorious picture, as she lie off Gravesend, the clear summer

sky tint the water of the river a pale blue, and convert it into

a mirror for an ideal representation of the graceful vessel. many boat

be cluster about her side, and up and down her canvas gangway

go hurrying figure. the ensign be at the peak, and at the fore

float the blue-peter, signal to those who take concern in she that

she would be soon under weigh.



she be bind to New York, whence she be to carry another cargo south,

ultimately touch at Callao before she spread her wing for the old

country.



there be a few first-class passenger on board, and some of they

stand near the gangway in low and earnest talk with friend, while

other be on the poop, gaze at the shore with wistful eye. one of

these be a widow, whose husband have be bury a few week before in

the churchyard of a little kentish town. she be take her boy back

with she to New York, where her friend be; and there they stand,

hand in hand, the child with wonder eye everywhere, the mother with

a fix gaze upon the land which be consecrate for ever to her heart

by the beloved form it hold.



the river be brilliant and busy with vessel at anchor or pass to

and fro, with boat pull from shore to shore, with the gay sunshine

deepening and brighten the colour of flag, or flash white

upon the outstretche canvas, and tremble in silver flake upon the

water. sailor hang over the forecastle of the “Meteor,” bandy joke

full of pathos, or exchange farewell with wife and sweetheart,

or male friend in boat group, with outstretched oar, around the

bow of the ship. some of the hand be aloft cast off the yard-arm

gasket, ready to sheet home when the boatswain’s pipe should sound.

the wind--a light breeze--be north, a soldier’s wind that would take

they clear of the river, and make a fair passage for they down Channel;

and now they be only wait for the captain to come on board with

the pilot to start.



by eleven o’clock the ship be to be under weigh; and even as the clear

chime of the clock strike the hour float across the river from

the land, a boat pull by three man sweep alongside, and the captain,

follow by the pilot, spring up the ladder.



a tall, broad-shoulder young man stand at the gangway to receive

they, and touch his cap as the captain come on board.



“all ready, Mr. Holdsworth?”



“all ready, sir.”



“man the windlass then.”



“ay, ay, sir.”



he be on the forecastle in a jiffy, and the thunder of his voice go

along the deck and bring all hand to the windlass as if a line

have pull each man to his place. the boatswain’s pipe shrill, the

pilot’s face, colour like mahogany, take an anxious expression; and

then clank! clank! clank! go the windlass, follow in a moment by a

hoarse song, which at regular interval burst into a chorus:--



  “and when you come to the dockyard gate,

          Yo, boy, yo!

  you’ll find that Sal for her true love wait,

          Heave, my bully-boy, heave!

  then, heave my boy, oh, heave together!

          Yo, boy, yo!

  and get she out o’ the stormy weather!

          Heave, my bully-boy, heave!”



then come such cry as these:--



“sheer off you boat there!”



“get the gangway ladder in-board.”



“loose the inner jib, one of you!”



“a hand aft to the wheel!”



to see young Holdsworth now be to see a sailor, with a voice like a

gale of wind, the whole great ship and her thousand complication of

spar, rope, sail, pack, so to speak, like a toy in the palm of his

hand.



the skipper be below; the pilot be lord and master now, and

Holdsworth watch his face for order.



soon the cable be up and down, the anchor lift, and some hand leave

the windlass to make sail. the tide have get the ship, and she be

float almost imperceptibly past a large american vessel that have

bring-up the evening before. a few boat follow; some turn and

make for Gravesend, the inmate stand up and wave their hat and

handkerchief.



by this time the anchor be cat, and all hand quit the

forecastle to make sail. then you might hear cry of “sheet home!”

from the air; down fall great space of canvas like avalanche of snow;

chain rattle through block; fore and aft song and chorus be

raise and continue until silence by the order “Belay!” the yard

rise slowly up the polished mast and stretch the canvas tight as

drum-skin. the man on board the Yankee crowd her forecastle and give

the Britisher a cheer as she pass. amid the song of the man, the

piping of the boatswain and his mate, and the noisy command of the

pilot, the “Meteor” burst into a cloud of canvas, chip a white wave

out of the blue river, and go ahead like a yacht in a racing match.



the breeze freshen as the river widen. the deck be quiet now,

the rope coil down clear for run, and everything haul taut and

snug. at two o’clock she be foam along under royal and flying-jib,

whisk past collier drag their main channel through the water

as if they be drown fly struggle for the land; overhaul

smart schooner and ship as big as herself, and make the land on

either side of her dwindle down and down into flat marshy country.



the pilot, pompous to the last extremity, with bow leg and moist eye,

strut fore and aft the poop, sometimes call an order to the man

at the wheel, and constantly look aloft, ahead, and around he. the

passenger lounge about the deck or hang over the side, watch

the foaming water rush past they, and almost lose--those of they,

at least, who be leave their home--their sadness in the sense of

exhilaration beget by the swift speeding of the vessel through the

glory and freshness of the summer afternoon.



Forward, the man be industrious in the forecastle, rig up their

hammock, or prepare their bunk for the night, or overhaul their

sea-chest, or the canvas bag which, among seaman, often answer

the purpose of sea-chest. it be a queer sight to see their busy

figure in the twilight of the forecastle--here the black face of a

negro; there the broad feature of a Dutchman; here a mulatto; there

a lantern-jaw Yankee, peak-bearded and narrow-hippe--a world in

miniature, something after the nature of a menagerie, all talk in

English, with accent which make the effect indescribable gibberish

to the unaccustomed ear. they be most of they friend already; some

have sail in company before; and now they would suspend their work

to offer one another a chew of tobacco, to beg the loan of a “draw,”

mean a pipe; while the air grow insufferable to all but a seaman’s

digestion, with the smell of black cavendish and the inexpressible

odour of bilge-water, tar, hemp, and the ship’s cargo generally,

which rise, directly through the fore-hatch, and be blow into the

forecastle by the draught under the foresail.



       *       *       *       *       *



at eight o’clock the “Meteor” be off Margate, all sail but royal

set; one of the noble spectacle of beauty, grace, and majesty the

world have to offer--a full-rig ship--a lean mountain of canvas

rush under the sky, with a whirl of foam burst like two gigantic

white arm from her side.



but the North Foreland bring you to a sharp turn, and the wind have

draw three or four point to the west, and be blow fresh in Mid

Channel as the pilot see by the distant Goodwin Sands on the port

bow, which lay, upon the horizon in a long streak of foam, like the

milky-way in the sky.



this be a pity, because, unless they be disposed to stand for the

French shore, and so make folkestone by a long board, they would have

to bring-up in the down.



however, there be no help for it; for, though the vessel’s yard be

brace hard up against the lee rigging, she continue to fall off half

a point by half a point, and, by the time she be off Ramsgate, she

head be south. but the “Meteor” could sail to windward like a yacht.

they furl the mainsail, take a single reef in the topsail, and then

all hand stand by to put the ship about. standing-by be sailor’

English for be ready. the man go forward, and the ship, with

two hand at the wheel, make straight for the South Sand Head--the

southernmost portion of the formidable Goodwin Sands.



the Channel be a glorious scene. the sun have sink behind the land,

bequeath a broad red glare to the heaven, over which some great

cloud be unfurl themselves--livid promontory with flaring

crimson headland. Astern rise the solid white cliff, look

phantasmal upon the dark-colour water. on the right the land sweep

into a bay, hug the water flatly as far as Deal, then rise

into a great front of frown cliff, which stand black against the

background of the red sky. the gloom of the gathering evening have

pale the outline of the house into the shadowy land; but here and

there you could see small vessel ride close in shore, or smack

with red sail creep round the various point, whilst all between

be the quick-run sea, colour by the different depth of sand

into an aspect of wild and multiform beauty. away on the left the

water, quiver with hurrying wave polish like oil, stretch

to a dim and desolate horizon. here and there a brig, or a barque,

plough laboriously for the down, shipping sea like column of snow

and lurch like a drunkard that must presently fall. the “Meteor”

overtake and pass many of these vessel as if they be buoy,

sometimes run so close alongside as to take the wind out of their

sail and set they upright on an even keel. it be strange to look

down upon their deck, lie close to the water, and see the steersman

gaze upwards, the master walk to and fro and not deign to

notice anything but their own ship, a head or two peer over the

bulwark; to hear the groaning and grunting of the timber, the yelling

of the wind in the mast; and then, in a moment, to see they pitch

and tumble astern, dwindle into toy and scarcely perceptible among

the lead-colour wave.



but now the crimson have fade out from over the land, and where it have

vanish burn a strong and steady light, top the summit of the

high and outermost cliff. the night fall, and all about the expanse

of water innumerable light start into life: lantern of vessel in

the down, of pass ship, of the Goodwin beacon. the cloud which

have look slate-colour against the sunset be now white, and roll

like great volume of steam across the star. then right ahead of

the ship rise a pale white line--a quick, spectral play of froth, and

a great, red star shine like an arrest meteor, and which a few

minute before seem to be many mile distant, grow big and lurid and

dangerous.



a deep voice sound along the “Meteor”--“All hand about ship!”



a rush of foot and then a silence; round fly the wheel like a

firework; the red light ahead sweep away giddily to the left.



“Helm’s alee!”



the canvas shake like thunder, and the passenger crowd aft,

wonder to find the ship upright.



“mainsail haul!”



and at this signal forth burst a loud chorus; the release brace

allow the yard to fly round, the deck echo to the tramping of

foot and to the cry of man; the vessel lie over as though she must

capsize; there be a rush of inexperienced passenger to windward;

another hoarse command; round fly the foreyard, and in a few minute

the “Meteor” be dart through the water with her head for Deal, and

the pale phosphorescent gleam of the Goodwin Sands die out upon the

sea on her weather quarter.



the ship tack three time during the next hour; and at half-past nine

the wind lull, and the moon come out of the sea, a broad, yellow

shield. there be something indescribably solemn in the rise of this

orb as she climb in a haze over the edge of the horizon, and flash

a wedge of quiver light into the tumbling water. the sail of the

“Meteor” catch the radiance presently, and her long wake glitter in

the light like a trail of silver spangle.



she be in the Downs now, and in a dead calm, and within half-an-hour

she be ride at anchor, everything furl aloft, and taut and snug as

a man-of-war, with many ship about she, rest like phantom vessel

on the surface of the water.



an anchor-watch be set, and the crew after smoking, and yarning and

lounge about the forecastle, go below, and a deep repose fall upon

the erewhile busy labour ship. the silence be unbroken, save by

the murmur of some of the passenger talk in a group around the

cuddy skylight, or by the sound of a fiddle play in some one of the

near-lie vessel, or by the faint, melodious murmur of the breaker

boil upon the pebbly strand of Deal.



a breathless summer night! with big shooting-star chase the heaven,

and a moon grow small and bright each moment, and the dim

tracery of the tapering mast and rigging of the “Meteor” pointing from

the deep and vanish in the gloom. away on the left, for the tide have

swing the ship round and point her bowsprit up Channel, glitter the

light of Deal, suggestion of home life which rivet many eye and

make many heart thoughtful and sad--none more so than Holdsworth’s,

whose watch it be, and who, now that his active duty be over,

could surrender himself to the bitter luxury of thought.



he pace to and fro athwart the poop, his heart far away in the little

village he have quit. the face of his child-wife rise before he, and

he live again in the hard parting that have wrench his heart and send

he sob from his home. he feel she cling arm about his neck;

he look down into her swollen eye; he repeat again and again, in

broken tone, his fond and last entreaty that she would keep her heart

up, pray for he, and think only of the joyous summer that would come

to bless and bring they together once more.



the music cease in the distance; the tinkling of bell, announce the

half-hour past ten, came steal across the water, and be echo by

five ring stroke upon the bell on the “Meteor’s” quarter-deck.



half-past ten! be dolly sleep now? have her grief and her tear

weary she into repose? how long, how very long, it seem since he

see she last! the time be to be count in hour, but it appear day

and week to he.



he lean with his arm upon the poop rail, and stand lose in thought.

a question ask in a soft voice make he turn.



“do all those light there belong to ship?”



the speaker be the widow to whom holdsworth’s attention have be

several time attract during the day by the air of sadness her face

wear, and her devotion to her bright-haired little boy, whose sweet

wonder eye, as he cast they round, have remind he of dolly’s, and

draw his heart to he.



“yes, they belong to ship at anchor like ours.”



“how beautiful be this night! I have leave my boy asleep and steal from

the cabin to breathe the fresh air.”



“I daresay the dear little fellow sleep well after the excitement he

have go through. I notice that his wonder eye be very busy when

we be in the river.”



hear this, she grow frank and cordial at once. her woman’s heart

be as sure of he as if she have know he all his life.



“do you notice my child? I should have think you be too much

occupy. he be tired out, God bless he! when I put he to bed; too

tired even to say his prayer. he have no father now to love he, so I

must give he a double share of my love.”



“ah, you will not find that hard. he be a manly little fellow, and he

and I will become great friend, I hope.”



“I trust you will.... you be Mr. Holdsworth? I hear the captain call

you by that name. and you be the chief mate?”



“yes, madam.”



“I admire your profession, Mr. Holdsworth, and have a good excuse for

do so, for both my father and brother be sailor. but I don’t

think I could ever let my boy go to sea; I could never bear to part

with he. and I sometimes wonder how the wife of sailor can endure to

be separate from their husband.”



“that be the hard part of our profession,” answer Holdsworth

quickly. “I never understand it before this voyage. I have have to leave

my young wife; may God protect she until I come back.”



“be she very young?”



“Nineteen.”



“poor girl!” exclaim the widow, with deep sympathy in her voice. she

add, cheerfully, “but this separation will only make you dearer to

each other. you be sure to meet again. time fly quickly, and all

these weary day will seem no more than a dream to you when you be

together.”



she sigh and glance down at the deep crape on her dress. the

moonlight enable Holdsworth to notice the glance, and the pathos of it

silence he. in the presence of such an experience as _her_ parting

be--he know whom she have lose by her reference to her fatherless

boy--his own sorrow appear light.



“there be always hope, there be always the promise of happiness

in store while there be life,” she continue gently. “do not be

down-hearted, Mr. Holdsworth. this parting be but a temporary

interruption of your happiness. be sure that God will protect your

young wife while you be away, and do not doubt that he will lead you

back to she.” she smile softly at he, and add, “I must go to my

little one now,” bow cordially and go away.



he could have bless she for an assurance which, have no well

foundation than a woman’s sympathy, cheer he as no thought of his

own could have do. “that be a true heart,” he say to himself, and

resume his walk, repeat her word over and over again, and draw

a comfort from they that make his step elastic and his eye bright.









CHAPTER III.



DOWN CHANNEL.





at six o’clock next morning the sleep passenger be awaken

by cry and tramping which, to some of they at least, be novel

disturber of their slumber. they might have tell the reason of all

this noise without go on deck; for those who sleep in cot find

the deck make an angle with their bed, and the lee port-hole

veil with rush green water, and all the movable crowd together

at any distance from where they have be deposit the night before.

and hoarse cry sound, and the flanking of massive chain, and the

strange groaning a ship make when she heel over to a weight of canvas.



yes! the “Meteor” be under weigh, with a spanking breeze on the

starboard quarter, which she would haul round abeam--her good point of

sailing--when she have clear the South Foreland. if this breeze hold,

the pilot say, he would be out of the ship and toast she in rum and

water at Plymouth before the sun go down next day.



some of the passenger come on deck when the ship be off Folkestone,

and then they see as fair a sight as the world have to offer--the

great white english cliff top with swell tract of green, with

here and there small bay with space of yellow sand between; house

thickly group--so it seem in behold they from the sea--upon the

very margin of the cliff; slate-colour hill pale far, far away

with visionary cloud upon they; and between the ship and the shore

many pleasure-boat and other craft, with white or ochre-colour sail

and bright flag, lend spot of red and blue to the perspective of

the chalky cliff.



the pilot hug the wind, rightly apprehensive that it might draw

ahead and cripple he for sea room; and the “Meteor” hereabout be so

close to the land that those on board she could see the people walk

on shore--man’s majesty illustrate by dot of black upon the beach or

the height. Overhead be a brilliantly blue sky, with small wool-white

cloud drive over it; the sea laugh in dimple and shiver the

white sunlight far and wide, so that every crest gleam with a diamond

spark of its own; and away on the left, a pale faint cloud float

upon the horizon, be the french coast.



the gay panorama sweep by and new scene open--stretch of barren

coast with ungainly Coastguards’ hut for their sole decoration; space

of vivid green rule off with line of soft brown sand, and low black

rock mirror in the lake-like surface of the water under the lee;

whitewash village with wreath of blue smoke curl from their

midst, and broad expanse of tree darken the lightlier-colour

landscape with delicate shadow. sturdy vessel, the dray-horse of

the Channel, slow, deep laden, and wafting, many of they, the scent

of pine and other wood across the water, be overtake and pass,

often amid the laughter of the crew on the “Meteor’s” forecastle, and

“chaff,” which even the grave Captain Steel, the “Meteor’s” skipper,

condescend to smile at. how picturesque these vessel! here a dutch

barque paint white, with square-face man stare over the bulwark;

a red-capped commander in sea boot and vast inexpressible, and a

steersman who sometimes look at the “Meteor” and sometimes at the

sail of his own ship, mix duty and curiosity in a manner delightful

to behold; there a north-country brig with dirty patched sail and

black rigging, and a crew with smoke face and a grinning head at the

galley door; sometimes a french smack with as many hand on board as

would man a Black Ball Liner, woman among they in red petticoat and

handkerchief around their face, some gutte fish, some mend net,

some peel potato, and all talk and gesticulate at once, but

suspend both their work and their talk to crowd to the smack’s side

and stare at the noble english vessel; and sometimes a little open boat

at anchor, with a man in her fishing with deep gravity, and pay no

more heed to the ship in whose wake his cockle-shell would bob like

a cork float, than be he the only tenant of the great glitter

surface of water.



but soon the coast sink low in the horizon. the “Meteor” be stand

for the deep water of the Middle Channel, and close haul, but with

all sail set, she have pale old England into a thin blue cloud, and

be head straight for the great Atlantic Ocean.



the night pass; the morning break; but the “Meteor” be not out of

the Channel yet. the pilot grumble as he cast his groggy eye aloft

and see the weather-leach lifting. he would have to go about to fetch

Plymouth, unless he have a mind to cross the Atlantic, and this be

certainly not his intention.



all the passenger come on deck after breakfast; the lady bring

out their work, the gentleman light cigar, and those who have make a

voyage before look know as they cast their eye about and ask

nautical question of the captain.



as to the pilot, he be ungetatable. moreover, his language be so

clouded with marine expletive that his light answer be generally

a shock to the sensibility.



every boatman from Margate to Penzance call himself a pilot nowadays;

but the genuine pilot--such a man as this who be take the “Meteor”

down Channel--stand out upon the marine canvas with an individuality

that make he unique among seafare human kind. figure a square,

bow-legged man, in a suit of heavy pilot cloth, a red shawl round

his neck, a tall hat on his head, a throat the colour of an uncooked

beefsteak, and a face of a complexion like new mahogany, small moist

rolling eye, a voice resemble the tone of a man with the bronchitis

call through a tin trumpet, and an undying affection for Jamaica

rum. such be Mr. Dumling, the “Meteor’s” pilot, a man to whom the

gaunt sea-batter post, the tall skeleton buoy, the fat wallowing

beacon, and the endless variety of light ashore and at sea, from the

North Foreland to the Land’s end, be as familiar and intelligible

as the alphabet be to you; who be so profoundly acquainted with the

Channel that he boast his power to tell you within a quarter of a

mile of where he be, by the mere faculty of smell! a man who could

look over a ship’s side and say, “here be four fathom of water, and

yonder be nine,” “and where the shadow of the cloud rest the water

be twelve fathom deep;” and so on, every inch of the road, for mile

and mile--a miracle of memory! to appreciate the value of such a man

you should be with he in the Channel in a pitch-dark night, blow

great gun from the north-east, with the roar of the Goodwin on the lee

bow, and a sea so heavy that every blow the ship receive communicate

the impression that she have strike the ground, while the black air be

hoarse with the gale and fog with sting spray.



the wind be nowhere more capricious than in the English Channel. at one

o’clock the spanking breeze sweep round to the south-east; the watch

go to work at the brace; up go the foretopmast-stun’sail, and the

“Meteor” rush ahead at twelve knot an hour.



“we shall be off Plymouth at eight o’clock,” say the pilot, and go

below to lunch with a serene face.



he be right. at eight o’clock the “Meteor” be lie with her main

yard back, dip her nose in a lively sea, with a signal for a

boat stream at her mast-head.



the passenger might take their last look at old England then, whilst

the glorious sunset bathe the land in gold, and make the woode shore

beautiful with colour and shadow. and now, dance over the water,

come a white sail, which dim slowly into an ashen hue as the crimson

in the sky fade and the water darken.



“any letter for shore?” say Captain Steel, move among the

passenger, and soon his hand grow full. many of the man come forward

and deliver missive for the wife, for Sue, for Poll, to the skipper,

who give they to the pilot. the boat, glisten with the sea-water

she have ship, sweep alongside, duck her sail, and be bring up by

a line fling from the main chain.



“good-bye, cap’n,” say the gruff pilot; “wish you a pleasant voyage,

I’m sure, gen’l’men and lady;” drop into the main chain, and from

the main chain drop into the boat; the sail be hoist, a hat wave,

a cheer give from the ship’s forecastle, and away bound the lugger in

a cloud of spray.



now bawl Captain Steel from the break of the poop; round swing the

main yard; the noble ship heel over, tremble, and start forward,

and, with the expire gleam of the sunset upon her high sail, the

“Meteor” head for the broad Atlantic, and glide into the gloom and

space of the infinite, windy night.









CHAPTER IV.



in THE ATLANTIC.





there be eight passenger and twenty-seven hand, count captain

and officer, on board the “Meteor;” in all, thirty-five soul.



in these day half that number of man would be think ample to handle

a ship of eleven hundred ton. take fourteen man as a ship’s company,

we find--one, the cook, who be useless aloft; five ordinary seaman,

equal to two able-bodied man; four ill and unable to leave their bunk;

the remainder consist of the captain, two mate, and the carpenter.

so that a summon for all hand to shorten sail, for example, bring

forth about enough man to do the work of one yard--one yard, when

there be twelve, exclusive of trysail, jib, stun’sails, spanker,

and staysail. this modern system of undermanne ship be an evil

next in magnitude to that of send crazy and leaky vessel to sea;

and as many ship be lose for want of hand to work they on occasion

which demand promptitude and muscle, as be lose by rotten plank and

overcharge cargo.



the passenger on board the “Meteor” consist of four gentleman, two

lady, a little boy, and a female servant. of the gentleman, one be a

young man name Holland, who be go to America for no other purpose

than to see Niagara; another be a merchant, who be to represent

a London house in New York. he be accompany by his wife and she

maid. the third be a General in the United States Army, a fine old

man with a chivalrous courtesy of manner and a handsome honest face,

who have be pick up what professional hint he could find by a

year’s sojourn in the military depôts of Great Britain. the fourth male

passenger be an actor, magnificently name Gerald Fitzmaurice St.

Aubyn, in quest of more appreciative audience in the New Country than

his genius have encounter in the Old. the widow and her son complete

the list.



it take these good people a very short time to settle down to their

new life and adjust themselves to the novel condition of existence

that surround they. the lady lie hide at the first go off;

and, although Mr. St. Aubyn put in a punctual appearance at meal and

smoke a great quantity of cheroot, it must be admit that he be

peculiarly pensive for a comedian, whose genius, he affirm, be

chiefly at home in genteel farce, though he have enact tragedy with

applause.



the “Meteor” meet with adverse wind, but brilliant weather, during the

first few day. she tack north and south, and crowd canvas to make

headway, but, though her speed be great through the water, her actual

progress be small.



“no matter,” say Captain Steel, patiently; “we may get a gale astern

of we some of these hour, and then we’ll make up for lost time.”



but whilst the weather remain so beautiful, the wind brisk and the

sea smooth, the passenger could hardly regret the delay. it be like

yacht sailing--dry deck, steady motion, and always the pleasurable

sense of swiftness inspire by the bead foam crisping by and

stretch like a tape astern. now and again they signal a ship

homeward bind or journey south. the widow’s little boy clap his

hand to see the bright flag fly at the mizzen-peak, and the lady

be lose in wonderment to think that those gay colour be a language

as intelligible to those concern in their interpretation as “how do

you do?” and “very well, thank you.”



the “Meteor” have a snug cuddy; and a hospitable sight be the

dinner-table, with the white cloth cover the long board, the

gleam silver and glass, the fine claret jug (testimonial by former

passenger to the captain), the colour of wine in decanter, the

grinning negro always collide with the steward, and the skipper’s

rubicund face, relieve by soft white hair, at the head of the table,

back by the polished mizzen-mast. Overhead be the skylight, through

which you might see the great sail tower to the heaven; and over

the dinner table swing a globe of gold-fish between two basket of

fern. there be a piano lash abaft the mizzen-mast; and all around

the cuddy be the cabin occupy by the passenger, the captain,

the mate, with highly-varnish door and white panel relieve with

edging of gold.



everybody take an interest in the widow’s little boy, both because he

be a pretty child, and because it be whisper about that he have lose

his father but a few week ago. he and Holdsworth become great friend,

as Holdsworth have say they would. whenever it be the first mate’s

watch on deck, the little fellow would paddle away from his mother’s

side and come to he, and ask he to tell he story, and show he

the ship’s compass, at which he be never weary of look. then you

might see Holdsworth on a hencoop, or the skylight, with the child upon

his knee, coin nautical fairy-yarn of people who live under the

sea, and ride in chariot compose of coral, to which fish with scale

shine like precious stone be harness.



sometimes the widow, whose name be Tennent, would come on deck and

find they together, when she would sit beside they and listen with

a smile to Holdsworth, whose story the little boy Louis would on

no account suffer his mamma to interrupt. and to repay he for his

kindness to the child, and not more for that than because she admire

his honest nature, and be win by his gentle and tender simplicity, she

would lead he on, with a world of feminine tact, to talk of his wife,

and comfort and make he happy with her sympathy, her interest, and her

assurance.



she be a calm, gentle-faced woman, with a settle sorrow in the

expression of her eye that make she look old than she be, but she

age would scarcely exceed thirty-six. she show little inclination to

converse with the other passenger, and would retire early at night,

and in the daytime sit in quiet place about the deck, always with she

boy beside she.



the merchant’s wife, on the other hand, Mrs. Ashton, be a gay,

talkative woman, a showy dresser, and fond of a quiet boast, which

her husband, a short man with a yellow beard, take care never to

contradict. Mr. Holland begin to pay her attention straightway, and

then Mr. St. Aubyn step in with theatrical emphasis and smooth

observation, like the speech in comedy. Captain Steel, though

very polite to this lady, incline to Mrs. Tennent,--his sailor’s heart

appreciate her defencelessness, and propound all kind of problem

how good to amuse, please, and cheer she. but though she could not fail

to like the honest skipper, she evidently prefer Holdsworth, who

would go and talk to she for an hour at a time about dolly, and then

listen, with a face of kindliest sympathy, to little passage out of

her own life.



and so a week go by, and the ship strove with the baffling wind,

which blow directly from the quarter to which her bowsprit should have

point, and captain and man begin to chafe, find the job of put

the ship about tiresome at last.



on the seventh day, about the hour of sunset, the wind fall, and the

surface of the sea become polished as glass, though from the north-east

there come, through the mighty expanse of water, a long and regular

swell, which make the ship rise and fall as regularly as the breath of

a sleeper.



“we shall have the wind from that quarter, I think, sir,” say

Holdsworth to the skipper.



“or be this an after-swell, Mr. Holdsworth?” suggest the skipper,

send his keen gaze across the sea to the horizon, where the sky be

as blue as it be overhead.



there be no telling. this long and regular swell might be the

precursor of a gale, or the effect of one that have pass. the

barometer have fall, but this might only indicate a southerly wind,

not necessarily dirty weather. the heaven be perfectly tranquil; the

day be fade into a serene and gloriously beautiful evening, with

no hint in all its benign aspect to suggest the need of the slight

precaution.



Mrs. Ashton be at the piano, accompany Mr. St. Aubyn to a song,

which he sing so affectedly that some of the hand forward mimicked

he, and the forecastle seem full of guinea-pig.



her husband pop his head over the skylight and call to she to

come and view the sunset. up she come, escort by Mr. Holland and the

actor, flounce showily into a chair, and fall into a rapture.



“oh, how beautiful! the sea look like gold! don’t it, Captain Steel?

see how red the sail be! ah, if I could only paint! what fame such a

picture as this would bring I.”



true; but then what manner of pigment be needful to reproduce the

glory, the colour, the calm, the infinity of that wonderful scene!



the sun be sink down a cloudless horizon, and be now a vast

crimson ball, throb and quiver with his low limb upon the

sea-line. there be something overwhelming in the unspeakable majesty

of his unattended descent. as the huge crimson body appear to hang

for some moment above the sea before dipping, even Mrs. Ashton

hold her tongue, and seem impressed with the tremendous spectacle

of loneliness submit by the globe of fire sink away from the

sky with the vast solitude of the deep in the foreground. far into

the measureless ocean he have sink a cone of fire, while the height

above and around he be dim with burn haze. the sail of the

“Meteor” be yellow in the expire light; her topmast seem vein

with line of flame; and the brass-work about her deck reflect

innumerable sun, each with thread of glory about it, that blind the

eye to encounter.



but even while they gaze the sun vanish, and darkness come with

long stride across the deep, kindle the star and transform

the mast and yard of the ship into phantom tracery as delicate as

frostwork to look at.



“upon my word!” exclaim Mr. Holland in a tone of rapture, “that’s as

fine a sight as I must hope to see anywhere.”



“if you could introduce a scene like that, Mr. St. Aubyn, on the stage,

eh?” laugh the General.



“why, as to that,” reply Mr. St. Aubyn, “let I tell you, General,

that there be some very fine scene to be find in the large theatre

in London. in the second act of ‘Pizarro,’ as I see it the other night

at Drury Lane, there’s a scene represent the Temple of the Sun; the

sun be set--and God know how they manage it, but the sun _do_

sink, not like yonder one, but very finely in cloud, just as ‘ataliba’

exclaim, draw his sword, ‘now, my brother, my son, my friend, I

know your valour. should ill success assail we.’”...



“yes, yes,” interrupt Mr. Holland impatiently; “but I always

consider ‘Pizarro,’ as a play, to be full of very poor rant. who

talk in real life like the fellow in that piece be make to talk?”



“my dear sir!” exclaim Mr. St. Aubyn with a smile of contempt, “the

stage be the arena of poetry; we be idealist.”...



“because you never mean what you say,” say Mr. Ashton, light a

cigar.



“oh, excuse I,” rejoin Mr. St. Aubyn; “true actor be always in

earnest. siddon be.”



“I once meet Sarah Siddons,” say Mrs. Ashton. “do you remember, dear,

at Lord Shortlands?” address her husband.



“I be only once at a theatre in my life,” observe Captain Steel, who

have be listen to the conversation with an impressed face. “that

be at Plymouth. they give we our money’s worth. there be plenty of

fight and love-making, and two traitor, both of whom die game and

cover with blood. there be a little too much gunpowder at the end;

but I rather think they raise smoke to hide the acting, which fall

off as the piece make headway. the good part of the entertainment, to

my thinking, be a fight between two sailor in a private box. Mr. St.

Aubyn, where do you gentleman, when you be run through the body, stow

all the blood you lose? that’s often puzzle I to think.”



“oh, don’t let I hear,” cry Mrs. Ashton. “I hate to be tell such

secret.”



“Captain,” say the General, “how long be this calm go to last?”



“all night, I be afraid. how’s her head?” sing out the captain.



“East-south-east, sir,” respond the man at the wheel.



“we’re homeward bind,” say the captain laugh; “the old girl want

to get back again.”



he walk away from the group, and stand near the wheel, gaze aloft

and around. the passenger continue talk and laugh, their voice

sound unreal when listen to at a distance, and with the great,

desolate, silent sea breathing around. the sail flap lazily aloft,

and the wheel-chain clank from time to time as the vessel rise and

fall. Mrs. Tennent come on deck, the captain join she, and they

walk up and down. on the other side of the deck pace the second

mate. Forward be the dark shadow of some of the hand upon the

forecastle, smoking pipe and talk in low voice.



the night have fall darkly; there be no moon, but the star be

large and brilliant, and glitter in flake of white light in the

sea. presently a fiddle be play in the forecastle, and a voice sing

a mournful tune that sound weirdly in the gloom, and with a muffle

note. the air and voice be not without sweetness, but there be the

melancholy in it which many song popular among sailor have, and the

wail cadence be help out by the ghostly sail rear their

glimmering space, and the subdue plash of the water about the bow,

as the ship sink into the hollow of the swell.



Mrs. Tennent stop, with the captain, at the poop-rail to listen.



“what odd music!” cry Mrs. Ashton. “it sound as if some one be

play out in the sea there.”



“let’s have the fiddler here,” say Mr. Holland. “I like to enlarge my

mind by observation, and have never yet hear a real Jack Tar sing.”



“oh yes! oh yes!” exclaim Mrs. Ashton, while Mr. St. Aubyn call

out, “I’ll go and fetch he.”



“well stop where you be, sir,” say the skipper, drily; “the

forecastle’s a dangerous hold for landsman to put their head into. Mr.

Thompson,” he call to the second mate, “just go and send that fiddler

aft here.”



presently come the man, follow at a respectful distance by a crowd of

his mate, who draw to the capstan on the quarterdeck, and wait for

what be to follow.



the fiddler and vocalist be a stumpy seaman, with black whisker, a

hooked nose, and keen black eye, dress in loose canvas breach,

well smear with tar, and a canvas shirt, with a belt about his

middle, in which be a sheath-knife. he hail from Southampton, but

have go so many voyage in every specie of ship--Danish, French,

spanish, American--that he might fairly claim to belong to the whole

world.



he scrape with his left foot, and stand bashfully await order, his

glitter eye travel over the group of gentleman and lady.



“you’re want to sing a song, Daniels,” say Captain Steel.



“ay, ay, sir. what might it be?”



“something wild and plaintive,” suggest Mrs. Ashton.



“give we a song about a sweetheart,” say Mr. Holland.



this be English to the sailor; so, after a few moment’ reflection, he

screw his fiddle into his neck, scrape a few bar, and then sing.



he do his good, and murmur from time to time about the capstan

illustrate enthusiastic appreciation in one portion of his audience

at least. those on the poop be more quiet, impressed by the peculiar

wildness of the song, and the rough, uncouth melody of the tune.



the song be about a woman whose husband be a sailor. the sailor go

away to sea, and do not come home, and she think he have desert

she; so she put on man’s clothe, ship on board a vessel as a

“hand,” and go in search of he. one night she be on the forecastle,

on the look-out. the watch be asleep; there’s not a breath of air:



  when, look over the starboard side,

    she see a face as pale

  as snow upon a mountain top,

    or moonlight on a sail.



the figure attach to the face rise, waist high, out of the water,

and extend his hand.



  “o God!” she scream, “be this my love?

    can this my Joey be?”

  and then she cast her eye above

    and jump into the sea.



and sure enough the phantom _be_ Joey, who have not desert she, as

she have cruelly think, but have be drown in the very spot where

the vessel she be on board of be becalm. the song wind up with an

injunction to all wife or sweetheart of sailor never to think that

their Joes have play they false because they do not return to their

home.



the passenger thank the man for his song, and Mrs. Ashton want

another; but Captain Steel, hold that enough condescension have be

exhibit, bid the singer go to the steward and get a “tot of grog.”



much criticism follow; but all, with the exception of Mr. St. Aubyn,

own themselves impress by the rough simplicity and tragical theme

of the forecastle ballad.



“Pshaw!” cry the actor; “put the man on a stage before an audience,

and he’d be hiss off. it’s the queer scratching of the catgut and

the picturesque costume of the fellow that have please you. his voice

ben’t good enough to get he the post of call-boy at a theatre.”



a warm argument follow this decision, and last nearly half an

hour, during which the General and Mr. Ashton leave the group; then the

steward’s bell rang, and the passenger go below to their nightly

potation and to munch sweet biscuit.









CHAPTER V.



a GALE of WIND.





at midnight Holdsworth come on deck to relieve the second mate. a man

out of the port watch come to the wheel, and stand yawn, scarcely

awake. the night be dark--a hazy atmosphere through which the star

gleam sparely, and the sea like ebony. the rise and fall of the ship

flap the sail against the mast and drive eddy of air about the

deck, but in reality there be not a breath of wind.



there be something stupendous in the black, profound, and breathless

placidity of the night. the compass swing round in the binnacle

anywhere, but the swell make the rudder kick heavily now and again, and

give the wheel a twist that fling the spoke out of the man’s hand and

wake he up.



this prolonged inactivity be gall. one long to hear the rush of

parting water and the singing of the wind in the shroud.



the mainsail flap so heavily that Holdsworth order it to be

furl. the song of the man bring the captain on deck. he flit,

shadow-like, about the binnacle, sniff at the night impatiently, and

then go to Holdsworth.



“the glass have fall half an inch since eight bell,” say he.



“yes, sir; there’ll be a change before morning.”



“well stow the royal and mizzen-top gall’ns’l.”



“ay, ay, sir.”



these, the topmost sail of the ship, be just discernible from the

deck. in a few moment their dim outline melt, and some dark figure

go up into the gloom and vanish.



the captain return to his cabin, and Holdsworth stroll the deck.

at two bell (one o’clock) the haze go out of the sky and the star

shine fiercely. holdsworth, stand on the starboard side of the poop,

feel a light air creep about his face, and the sound of the flap

sail cease.



“how’s her head?”



“north-a-quarter-west, sir.”



he sing out an order, and a crowd of figure came tumble out of the

forecastle and man the port brace. the air die away, but presently

come a quick puff which make the water bubble around the ship.



Holdsworth’s eye be upon the weather-horizon. the star burn

purely, but away upon the water-line be a thick shadow.



again the wind die out and there be a breathless stillness, amid

which you might hear a sound--vague, murmurous, indescribable--a

distant echo it might seem of something infinitely distant.



“stand by the topgallant halliard!”



a sense of expectation seem to pervade the very ship herself as she

stand upright with her dim canvas flap in the darkness above.



the distant murmur grow more defined, and take such a tone as you may

hear in small sharp rain fall at a distance upon leave. then,

out of the murky horizon some cloud came roll--long, attenuate

shadow, resemble visionary arm clutch at the star. the murmur

approach; the cloud, swinge along the sky, form into compact

group. Hark to the quick hissing of the water lash by the wind!



in a moment the sail be round and hard, the ship with her

port-chain under water, and the wind screech fiercely over the

ebony surface of the sea, and whiten it with foam.



the captain be on the poop, hold on to the main-topgallant

backstay, and shriek order like one possess. it be indeed

briefly a case of “let go everything!” under full topsail, foresail,

staysail, and jib, the ship be too heavily weight for the

surprising violence of the wind, and be powerless to right herself.

but every order give be the right one. and now you hear the deep

tone of Holdsworth’s powerful voice mingle with the agitated

command of the skipper, while yard came rush down upon the cap,

and sail bang and roar aloft, and man shout lustily about the

deck, and the sea flee in cataract of foam under the vessel’s bow.



a time of deep excitement, but scarcely of suspense--there be too much

hurrying for that.



there would have be something incredible to an inexperienced landsman

in the sight of the dark figure swarm up the shroud to give

battle to the wild array of canvas which groan and bellow like a

dozen thunderstorm in the sky--a spectacle of human pluck not to be

realise, or in the faint degree appreciate, by those who have not

beheld it. the night black--the yard slant so that the extremity of

the main-yard touch the water; the footing upon those yard a thin

line which must be feel for by the foot; the canvas, loosen by the

lowering of the yard, belly by the force of the wind many foot above

the head of the reefer, and present to their hand a surface of

iron; and the three mast quiver under the shock and convulsion of

the sail!



all hand be at work now, and there be man enough to reef both big

topsail at once, whilst other over their head furl the topgallant

sail. Holdsworth have be one of the first to spring up the main

rigging; he know the value of every pair of hand in that moment of

danger; and away--active, daring, his hand and arm like steel--he

clamber for the weather-earing. but the boatswain be before he, so

he make for the lee yard-arm.



figure a smooth spar, fifty-five foot long, slope at a height of as

many foot to the water’s surface, the say surface not be a mill

pond, but a sheet of foam; figure a pitch dark night, a line stretch

along the yard, down which you must slide to the extremity, a sail

weigh half a dozen ton bang at your head and your foot, and

do its utmost to throw you; then, having reach the extremity of

the yard, figure your leg throw across it as you might bestride a

horse, beneath you the foaming sea, almost at right angle the incline

deck of the ship, a long stone’s throw distant--a deep darkness

everywhere, save where a wave, break massively, fling out a

phosphorescent light and deepen the blackness of its own chasm--whilst

the gale yell about your ear, and blind you with spray that sting

like hail!



figure this, and you will then very faintly realise what “take the

lee-earing” in a gale at sea mean.



the cry of the man aloft, and the beating of the canvas, sound like

an unearthly contest in mid-air; but they cease presently, and then

the hand come hurry down the rigging and fall to the halliard.

Holdsworth spring on to the poop, his cap go, his hair blow about

his eye, and roar out order, while the captain, more easy in his

mind about his spar, go aft and hang about the binnacle, watch

the compass often.



the ship be now under double-reefed topsail, and reel through the

darkness almost bare of sail. the wind be increase in violence every

five minute, and an ugly Atlantic sea be run right athwart the

ship’s course, hurl great wave against her starboard beam, which

run in waterspout of foam as high as the main-top, and be blow in

big hiss flake through the rigging to leeward. it be soon deem

expedient to close-reef the topsail; but even under these mere streak

of canvas the “Meteor” lie over to the gale down to her water-way,

and the water bubble in her lee scupper. but luckily the gale be

right abeam, and the vessel could hold her course; but her speed be

comparatively small, and she labour heavily.



so pass the dark hour of the night. at four o’clock the gale

be at its bad. they have rig up a hurricane-house in the mizzen

rigging--a square of tarpaulin, which the wind flatten hard against

the shroud--and under this shelter sit Holdsworth and the captain,

scarce able to hear their own voice, pitch in the loud key, amid

the howling of the temp. once Holdsworth go below to look at the

glass, and come back say it be steady. the skipper roar that

he never before remember so sudden a gale, and Holdsworth own

that only once be he so catch--in the Pacific, when they lose their

fore-topmast.



there be nothing more to be do, unless they hove the ship to; but

this be not needful. the dawn break at five, and the pale cheerless

light illuminate a wild and dreary scene of tumble desolate water

billow in mountain to the horizon. the “Meteor,” almost under

bare pole, her yard point to the gale, her rope and line blow

in semicircle to leeward, labour heavily, catch now by a sea that

throw she on her beam-end, and now swoop into a chasm wall

with boil green water, make the gale screech like a million

steam-whistle through her rigging, as she drive up against it, while

coil tongue of water run in cataract up her glistening side and

fall in dead weight upon her deck. the sky, from horizon to horizon,

be a dark lead colour, along which under-cloud, in appearance

resemble volume of smoke, be sweep along, torn and rent, and

discharge at interval quick, bite shower of rain.



some of the passenger come on deck--the General, Mr. Holland, and

Mr. St. Aubyn. the General turn about when he have advance a few

foot, and disappear; Mr. Holland in a very short time follow his

example; but the actor, with manifest look of terror in his pallid

face, push onwards with outstretche hand for the hurricane-house.

the captain advise he to go below; but at that moment the ship,

roll suddenly to windward, ship a shower of spray, which soak

the poor actor through and through; a moment after, the vessel heel

heavily over to leeward; away roll the actor, impel both by the

wind and the unerre law of gravitation, and be fling against the lee

mizzen rigging, to which he be pin by the violence of the gale

as effectually as if he have be lash to the shroud. he scream

for help, on which Holdsworth go over to he, take he by the arm,

and drag he against the wind to the companion-hatchway. as Mr. St.

Aubyn stagger below, cling like a kitten to whatever he could lay

hand on, he be hear to implore Holdsworth to tell he if there be

any danger; but, before the word be out of his mouth, Holdsworth be

cling to the weather-rig and call the captain’s attention

to a brig, which have rise out of the sea like an apparition, and be

tear before the gale with full topsail and topgallant-sail set.



“a Yankee, by her build!” say the captain. “it’s only a Yankee who

would carry that sail in such a wind.”



it be a sight to see she fly along, sink her hull sometimes

out of sight, then poise on the giddy summit of a huge wave, whose

crest break under her bow, her copper bottom glistening like red

gold against the slate-colour water. she pass within a quarter of

a mile of the “Meteor’s” weather-beam, and up fly the stripe and

star and stand like a paint board at her peak. the second mate

answer the salutation by bend on the small ensign and run it

up. any further signalling be out of the question in that gale. the

man on board the brig could just be make out. she be a smart vessel,

black-hull, with bow like a knife, and skysail pole, which give she

mast an aspect of perfect symmetry; and she be splendidly handle.

she go like a swan over the seethe billow, stream a foaming

wake, and in a very few moment be lose in the haze and gloom of the

near horizon.



as the morning advance the gale decrease, but a terrible sea be up,

which make the ship labour so furiously that to steady she in some

degree they set the trysail and foresail. there be, however, the

comfort of daylight abroad, and the man could see what they be about.

both Holdsworth and the captain go below to get a little sleep, and

the vessel be leave in command of the second mate, a young man name

Thompson. there be two hand at the wheel, and two on the look-out on

the forecastle, glitter in oil-skin, and duck now and again to

the sea which sweep over the ship’s bow.



the fore and main hatch be batten down, and the main-deck be a

foot deep in water, which wash to and fro as the ship roll, and

which, as fast as it run through the scupper-hole, be replace by

fresh and heavy inroad of the sea.



but all this be trifle; the vessel be snug, the gale be

moderate, and the extra sail that have be make be drive the ship

through the water in fine style.



meanwhile, the passenger below, having be reassure by the captain,

be make what breakfast they could off the roll, tea, and rasher

of ham which clatter about the table, and tumble into their lap.

the tray swing wildly from the deck, and it demand great vigilance

and close attention to their convulsive movement to repossess oneself

of the cup or plate one place upon they for safety. the negro steward

shamble round the table, halt every moment to make a grasp at

anything that come in his road, to steady himself. now and again you

hear the smash of crockery. some conversation be attempt; and the

General invite Mr. Holland to go up on deck and witness a scene

which would probably exceed in majesty Niagara Falls; but Mr. Holland

say he would wait until the vessel be steady. Mr. St. Aubyn have

change his clothe and sit hold on to the table, look the part

of fear infinitely well than he could hope to impersonate it before

the footlight. the lady remain in their cabin. Mrs. Ashton,

overcome with sickness and the fear of drown, be drive her maid

distracted with order, which it be out of the poor wretch’s power

to execute. in truth, the maid’s leg be perfectly useless to she,

which Mrs. Ashton, lie on her back, refuse to understand. cry be

repeatedly come from the direction of her cabin for “Harry! Harry!”

which receive no attention, owe to Harry’s--in other word, to Mr.

Ashton’s--utter incapacity to move a step without be fling upon the

deck.



a somewhat different scene be present by the interior of the

forecastle, where both watch be have breakfast. man hold

tin pannikin step easily round to the galley, where the cook be

dispense a milkless, sugarless black fluid call tea, and retreat

into the twilight of the forecastle, carry the steaming beverage.

there sit the sailor, some swinge in hammock with their leg

dangle down, some on sea-chest, some on canvas bag, drink from

pannikin, swallow lump of biscuit hard as iron, or hack with

the knife they wear in their belt at bit of cold pork or beef,

float in vinegar, in tin dish hold between their knee; some

smoking, some make ready to “turn in,” and all jabber away as

gaily as if they be comfortably seat in a Liverpool or Poplar

singing-house--the mariner’s earthly paradise--and each with his Sue

or his Betsey at his side. here, more than in any other part of the

ship, you feel her motion--the mighty lifting of her bow, and the long

sweeping fall as she pitch nose under, while the heavy sea boom

against she outside as though at any moment the timber must dispart

and the green wave rush in.



at twelve o’clock the gale have decrease to such a degree that they

be able to shake two reef out of the main top-sail and set the

topgallant sail. the action of the sea, moreover, be much less

violent. the weather have clear, the pale blue sky could be see

shine through the white mist that flee along it, and the sun stand

round and clean and coppery in the heaven, throw a dark red lustre

upon the quick, passionate play of the sea beneath.



some of the passenger crawl upon deck and gaze with wonderment

around they. certainly the panorama be a somewhat different one from

what have be unroll to their eye the day before. the ship have a

fagged and jade look with her drench deck, her rope blow slack

with the violence of the wind, and the canvas make unequal to the eye

by the reef in the topsail. it be again Holdsworth’s watch on deck.

the captain walk up and down chuckle over the improved aspect of

the weather and on the wind, which be draw more easterly, and

therefore more favourable.



“you can shake out the reef, Mr. Holdsworth. she’ll bear it now,” he

call out.



out reef it be: the ship feel the increase pressure, and rush

forward like a liberated racehorse.



“this be capital!” exclaim the old General, totter about with

outstretche hand, ever on the alert for a special roll. “a week of

this, captain, will carry we a good way on our road.”



“ay, sir, and we must make up for lost time.”



and then presently he give order to set the mainsail and the other two

topgallant sail.



“the glass still keep low, sir,” say Holdsworth.



“but let’s take advantage of the daylight, Mr. Holdsworth. we mustn’t

lose an opportunity.”



the sky have now clear, the sun shine cheerily; the wind, having

draw aft, be now no more than what sailor would call a main-royal

breeze. the foretopmast stun’sail be set. the passenger regain

their spirit, and though the ship still roll pretty freely, Mr. St.

Aubyn and Mr. Holland, to show that they be now master of their

leg, walk up and down the deck, diversify their conversation

with sundry stumble, and now and then by fall against each other.

but the bright sunshine make such _contretemp_ a source of merriment.

moreover, the lady be on deck now, Mrs. Ashton having be push

up the companion-ladder by her husband, who, in his turn, have meet with

great assistance behind from the kindly hand of the negro steward, who

be anxious to get they both out of the cuddy, that he might show his

tooth to the maid-servant. Captain Steel see Mrs. Ashton attend

by the other gentleman, who be industrious in their inquiry after

her nerve, gallantly give his arm to the widow, whilst her little

boy run to Holdsworth, who take his hand, kiss and begin to talk to

he, find endless pleasure in look into his eye and humour

the suggestion of home-life, of flower, of woman’s love, of his own

wife, which be somehow convey to he by the boy’s prattle and wise

child-smile and perfect innocence.









CHAPTER VI.



TAKEN ABACK!





at five o’clock the wind be south-east; a fresh breeze, with a lively

sea and a cloudy sky. the wind be aft, the ship sail on an even

keel, to the great comfort of the passenger, who find the inclined

deck intolerable.



from the aspect of the sea, it be evident that the ship have get into

water which have not be touch by the gale of the morning--of such

narrow proportion sometimes be the tempest which sweep the ocean.

away northward, whither the cloud be roll, there loom a long,

low, smoke-colour bank of cloud or fog, so exactly resemble a coast

see from a distance that the passenger be deceive, and some of

they call out that yonder be land!



“tell we now, captain,” cry Mrs. Ashton; “it _be_ land, ben’t it?”



“why, madam,” rejoin the captain, “for anything I can tell, it may be

Laputa.”



“or Utopia,” suggest the General, “the land of idealism and

paradisaical institution.”



Mrs. Ashton laugh, see the joke, but Mr. St. Aubyn, conceive

that they be talk of real country, propose that the captain

should head the vessel for the shore.



“no, no! too far out of my course,” answer the skipper, with a wise

shake of the head. “it would make a Flying Dutchman of the ship be we

once to set to work to reach that land.”



“if I really think it Utopia,” say the General, stroke his

moustache, “I would beg you to land I at once, so eager be I to

witness the condition of a people live under a form of government the

like of which, for wisdom, humanity, and availability, be not to be meet

with in any other part of the world. but it _may_ be Laputa, as you

suggest.”



“or Lilliput,” say Mr. Holland; whereupon the actor, perceive that

a joke be play at his expense, scowl dramatically at the bank of

cloud, and mutter, that, for his part, when he ask a civil question

he usually look for a truthful answer.



just then a voice forward shout out, “a sail on the lee bow!”



there be always something exciting in this cry at sea. storm and calm

grow wearisome after a bit, but the interest that cluster about a

vessel meet on the broad deep never lose its freshness. the captain

go for his telescope, and, after a brief inspection, announce the

vessel to be a large barque go the same road as themselves. Mrs.

Ashton ask leave to look through the telescope, and a good deal of

coquettish bye-play take place; for, first she shut both eye, and then

she couldn’t see at all; and then she shut the eye that look through

the telescope, and, keep the other open, declare that she could see

well without the glass. then the telescope wouldn’t keep steady; so

Mr. St. Aubyn go upon his knee and beg she to use his shoulder

for a rest. at last, after an infinity of trouble, and when the cramp

be just begin to seize the actor’s leg, she obtain a glimpse

of the barque as it sweep through the field of the glass, and own

herself delight and satisfied.



the “Meteor” come up with the stranger hand over fist, keep to

windward of she; and soon she be no far than a mile off, a big

hull high in the water, bare and black, with round bow and a square

stern. they hoist the ensign on board the “Meteor,” but the barque

show no colour.



“some sour North Countryman, I reckon,” say Captain Steel. “she have a

Sunderland cut.”



she be under full sail, but just when the “Meteor” get abreast of she,

she clew her royal up, down come the flying and outer jib, and the

topgallant yard.



“what be she afraid of?” exclaim Captain Steel, gaze at she

curiously.



you could see the pigmy figure of the man clamber up the rigging,

and presently down fall the topsail yard and up go more figure,

and the spar be dot with head. anything more picturesque than

this vessel--her black hull roll majestically, her white sail

vanish even as you watch they, her rigging mark against the

cloudy sky, the sense of the noisy activity on board of she, of which

no faint echo steal across the water, and all between, the tumbling

cloud-colour water--cannot be imagine. the crew of the “Meteor”

watch she with curiosity; but she now fall rapidly astern, and in a

short time could be see clearly only by the telescope, which Captain

Steel hold to his eye, speculate upon her movement.



the dinner-bell rang. it be now the first dog-watch. Thompson, the

second mate, come on deck, and the passenger go to dinner. the

sunlight have a watery gleam in it as the lengthen ray fall upon

the skylight, and Holdsworth’s eye constantly wander to the sail,

which be visible through the glass. the skipper be in high humour,

and during dinner laugh at the barque they have pass for shortening

sail under a blue sky.



“I’ll wager a hat,” he exclaim, “that she’s command by a Scotchman,

even if she don’t hail from a north british port. I don’t mean to say

that your Scotchman’s a timid man, but he’s unco’ thoughtful. my first

skipper be a Sawney, and every night, as regularly as the second

dog-watch come round, it be ‘in royal and flying-jib, and a single

reef in the mizzen-top-sail.’”



“but there must be some reason for the barque furl her sail,” say

the General.



“from his point of view, no doubt, sir. you have see what the weather

have be all the afternoon?”



“the wind be drop, sir,” say Holdsworth, look through the

skylight.



he have an uneasy expression in his eye, and he frequently glance at

the skipper; but etiquette of a very severe kind prohibit he from

impart his misgiving of a change, in the face of the skipper’s

manifest sense of security.



“it may freshen after sunset,” rejoin the skipper. “Mr. Holland, the

pleasure of a glass of wine.”



the conversation drift into other channel. Mrs. Ashton give an

account of a country ball she have attend a week or two before she

leave England, and describe the dress she wear on that occasion,

appeal often to her husband to aid her memory, and rivet

the attention of Mr. St. Aubyn. then the General talk of the

garrison-town he have visit, and pay some handsome compliment to

the british army, and to english society in general. Mrs. Tennent,

seat on the captain’s right hand, with her boy at her side, listen

to without join in the conversation.



Holdsworth’s eye roam incessantly through the skylight.



it happen presently that the General, in speak of the beauty of

english inland scenery, mention the county in which Southbourne be

situate, and instance in particular the country around Hanwitch, a

town lie not half a dozen mile from Southbourne. holdsworth prick

his ear, and join in the conversation. he have reason to remember

Hanwitch. one of the happy day he have spend, during the three

month he have be ashore, be that in which he have drive dolly over

to that town, and dine in the queer little hotel that front a piece

of river-scenery as beautiful as any that be to be find up the Thames.



whilst he and the General talk, the skipper argue with Mr. St. Aubyn

on the merit of the English as a pay people. St. Aubyn declare

that the english public, take in the aggregate, be a mean public,

rarely liberal, and then liberal in wrong direction, support

quack institution, respond to quack appeal, and ignore true

excellence, especially histrionic excellence. both grow warm; then Mr.

Holland join in. he send the discussion wander from the point, and

in step Mr. Ashton.



meanwhile the decanter go round, the cuddy grow dark, and the negro

be look at the steward for order to light the swinge lamp.



Hark!



a loud cry from the deck, follow by a sudden rush of foot, and the

ship heel over--over--yet over!



the woman shriek; the skylight turn black; plate, decanter,

cutlery, glass, roll from the table and fall with quick crash. the

deck fore and aft echo with loud call. you could hear the water

gurgle in the lee port-hole. a keen blue gleam flash upon the

skylight; but if thunder follow the lightning it be inaudible amid

the wild and continuous shrieking of the wind.



the skipper and Holdsworth scramble to the companion-ladder and gain

the deck. in a trice they see what have happen. the ship, with all

sail set, have be take aback.



away to windward, in the direction directly contrary to where the wind

have be blow before dinner, the sky be livid, fling an early

night upon the sea, and send forth a tempest of wind that tear the

water into shred of foam. the whole force of the hurricane be upon

the ship’s canvas, which lie back against the mast, and the vessel

lie on her beam-end, her mast make an angle of forty degree with

the horizon.



the confusion be indescribable. every halliard have be let go;

but the yard be jam by the sail, and would not descend. the

clew-line be man, but the sheet would not stir an inch through

the block. nor be the bad of the squall, tempest, hurricane,

whatever it might be, upon they yet; that livid pall of cloud which the

lightning be seam with zigzag fire be still to come, and with it

the full fury its scowling aspect portend.



“my God!” thunder the skipper to the second mate, who stand white,

cow, and apparently helpless, “what have you bring we into?”



the wheel be jam hard a-starboard, but the ship lie like a log,

broadside on to the wind, her mast bow almost on a level with the

water.



“Haul! for your life, man! haul!” shriek the skipper frantically to

the man, who appear paralyse by the sudden catastrophe, and stand

idly with the clew-line and reef tackle pass along they.



Holdsworth, half-way up the weather-poop ladder, his head above the

bulwark, see soon than the captain what be about to happen.



“crowd to windward, all hand!” he roar. there be no time to say

more; the great broad, livid cloud be upon they even whilst Holdsworth

sing out the command; the man hold their breath--unless the mast go

the vessel be doom.



Crash! a noise of wood shiver into splinter, of flog rope and

sail thunder their tatter upon the wind; the fore and main mast

go as you would break a clay-pipe stem across your knee--the first,

just below the top, the other clean off at the deck; and the huge mass

of spar, rope, and sail lay quivering and roll alongside--a

portion on deck, but the great bulk of they in the water--grind

into the vessel’s side as if she have ground upon a shoal of rock.



the ship right, and then another crash; away go the mizzen-topmast,

leave the spanker and cross-jack set. the wind catch these sail and

sweep the ship’s head round right in the eye of the storm, and off she

drive to leeward, disabled, helpless--drag her shattered spar with

she, like something live its torn and mangled limb.



there be no situation in the whole range of the misfortune which

may befall a ship at sea more critical than the one the “Meteor” be

now in. the sea be rise quickly and leap high over the ship’s

bow, pour ton of water in upon the deck (the weight of the wreck

alongside prevent the vessel from rise to the wave), and carry

whatever have become unlashed--cask, spare spar, and the like--aft to

the cuddy front, against which they be launch with a violence that

break the window, and soon promise to demolish the woodwork.



but the bad part of the business be--the action of the sea set the

spar in the water and the hull of the ship roll against each other,

and the thump, thump, thump of the bristly wreck against the vessel’s

side send a hollow undertone through the hooting of the tempest that

be awful to hear.



though the mizzen-mast still stand, the weight of the other mast in

fall have severely wrench it, and it literally rock in its bed

to the swaying of the great spanker-boom. add to all this the midnight

darkness in the air, which the flash of lightning only serve to

deepen by the momentary and ghastly illumination they cast.



yet, if the ship be not to be drag to destruction, it be

imperative that she should be free, and free at once, from the

ponderous incumbrance of the wreck that ground against her side. the

captain have shout himself hoarse, and be no long to be hear. but

now Holdsworth make himself audible in tone that rise above the gale

like trumpet-blast.



“we must clear the wreck or founder! all hand out with their knife

and cut away everything!”



a comprehensive order that must be literally obey.



“Carpenter!” he roar.



“here, sir,” come a voice from the main-deck.



Holdsworth spring in the direction of the voice: shout again, and the

man be at his side.



“quick! where’s your tool chest? bear a hand, now!”



the two man fight their way through the water that come drench

and fly over the forecastle, to the boatswain’s berth, which the

carpenter share; and in a few moment return staggering aft with

their arm full of tool, which they thrust into the hand of the man.

Holdsworth seize an adze; the carpenter another; and to it fall all

hand, feel for the rope and then let drive at they.



the mere occupation hearten the man, who work with a will, burst

into encourage cheer from time to time and call to each other

incessantly. the lightning be so far useful that it enable they to

obtain glimpse of the progress they make. the starboard shroud lay

across the deck, from bulwark to bulwark, like bridge; these be the

first that be deal with. they keep the wreck close alongside, and

the strain upon they be enormous. Whilst Holdsworth and the carpenter

hack, they repeatedly call to a few of the man whose zeal keep they

work on the lee side, though their figure could not be see, to

stand clear, wisely guess that after a few of the shroud have be

sever, the whole would part like a rope-yarn: and this happen. one

final blow divide a shroud and leave the weight upon a few other,

which be unequal to support it; and as they fly a loud shriek rise;

a man have be catch by the fly shroud round the body and whirl

overboard like dust. but in the darkness none could tell who the

messmate be that have lose his life.



the parting of these shroud release the wreck from the ship’s side,

and it drift some fathom away. the horrible grinding sound cease;

but still the mast and yard, which the lightning disclose seethe

in the water, black, ugly, and as dangerous as a lee-shore, be

attach to the hull by a network of rope, all which must be sever.

the knife of the man cut and hack in all direction; and first here

and then there, and sometimes as if crash in half-a-dozen place at

once, the adze wield by Holdsworth be to be hear.



the last shroud be at length sever, the last rope part; the hull,

drift fast than the dead weight of wreck, fall astern of the

horrible incumbrance, and the next flash of lightning show the water

boil round the black spar ahead.



“Hurrah!” shout Holdsworth; but the man, weary and faint after

their long and great struggle, and sicken by the shriek of their

perish comrade, whose cry still sound in their ear, answer the

encouraging shout faint-heartedly.



the ocean be still a black and howl wilderness, and the vessel

plunge and roll, and tremble in the jumping sea, with her head

right in the wind’s eye, and the water pour over she in sheet

of undulate fire. the water have stove in the cuddy front, and be

wash in ton down into the steerage. what they have now to do be to

furl the cross-jack; aft come the man and clew the sail up; on which

the vessel fall broadside to the wind and roll her bulwark under

water.



to furl the cross-jack be a job full of peril; but, if the thing be

to be do at all, it be to be do by a _coup de main_. holdsworth,

cry to the hand to follow he, spring up the port mizzen rigging.

half-a-dozen go up after he, the rest skulk in the darkness, and

stand hold their breath, expect every moment the crash that

should fle the man aloft into the sea. no glimpse of the brave

fellow be to be obtain; nothing but the flap outline of the

white sail could be see; the mast creak harshly; but from time

to time the man’s voice could be hear even above the roar of the

tempest, the groaning of the ship, and the rolling of spare cask, a

sheep-pen which have become unlashed, and other thing about the waist

and quarter-deck; and slowly the faint space of thunder canvas

vanish in the darkness, and be securely stow.



meanwhile, the hand about the poop have be send to man the pump. the

carpenter have sound the well and report three foot of water in the

hold.



“she must be tight, sir! I be sure she be tight, sir! she have ship

the water that’s in she through the mast-coat of the main-mast!” the

skipper shout to Holdsworth, who stand, pant from his exertion

aloft, close against the mizzen-mast, that he might judge what chance

there be of its standing.



meanwhile, the wheel be hard a-starboard, and the gale be now upon

the ship’s quarter, the huge wave break under her counter and

send she wildly yaw forward. have there be daylight, they could

have rig up a jury foresail on the stump of the fore-mast, which

would have serve to keep she before the wind; but nothing could be

do in the overwhelming darkness except to keep the pump at work.



but she be ride more easily now, and ship few sea; the port

bulwark just abaft the gangway have be crush to a level with the

deck by the fall of the main-mast, and offer a wide aperture for the

escape of the water, so that the main-deck, where the hand work the

pump, be practicable.



furiously as it still blow, it be evident that the storm be abate;

there be rift in the cloud, through which, here and there, a pale

star glimmer for an instant, and be then swallow up.



it be now five bell (half-past ten); the skipper order rum to be

serve out to the man, who be wet through to the skin, and fag to

death by their extraordinary exertion. the carpenter sound the well

again, and report an increase of three inch in the depth of water.

this be a terrible announcement, and prove beyond a doubt that the

ship be leak, though the crew be keep in ignorance of the report,

that they might not be dishearten.



at six bell the cloud have break into huge black group, with space

of clear sky between, and the wind be lull as rapidly as it have

rise.



the ship be still buoyant enough to rise easily over the sea; but

anything more forlorn than her appearance, as it be disclose by the

dim light that fall from the rift among the cloud, cannot be imagine.



the fore-mast stand like a black and lightning-shatter tree; the

jib-boom hang in two piece from the bowsprit; where the main-mast have

stand be some huge jagged splinter; and aft tower the mizzen-mast,

with the cross-jack swinge to the roll of the ship, the spanker with

its peak halliard go, and the whole picture of it complete the

unutterable air of desolation present by the storm-shatter vessel.



at eight bell the carpenter report no increase of the water in the

hold, which cheer intimation the captain deliver to the man from

the break of the poop, who receive it with a faint cheer.



the pump have be relieve three time, and now the port watch be at

they, make the water bubble on to the deck, where it be wash to

and fro, and pour in stream through the scupper-hole.



at one o’clock, Holdsworth, who have be on deck since a quarter to

seven, go below to put on dry clothe; and as he be leave his

cabin to return on deck he meet Mrs. Tennent. her face be very pale in

the light of the swinge lamp, and she stand at her cabin door, by the

handle of which she support herself.



“be we not in great danger, Mr. Holdsworth?” she whisper, in a tone

of deep excitement.



“the bad be pass, I hope,” answer Holdsworth cheerfully.



“do not be afraid of tell I the truth. I can be brave for my

child’s sake. if real danger should come, Mr. Holdsworth, will you

remember he? will you be near he in that moment?”



“we willn’t talk of danger yet, Mrs. Tennent. we have have an ugly bout of

it, but the daylight be come, and then we shall be more comfortable.”



“many time,” she exclaim, “I think we be sink! o God! what a

horrible night this have be! I hear the water rush past the cabin

door, and I try to reach the deck, but be too faint to carry my

child, and I could not leave he.”



“well, you see we be still afloat,” Holdsworth answer cheerily.

“depend upon it, we will do our good to save the ship. take my advice

and lie down and get some sleep. this water here,” point to the

cuddy-deck, “mean nothing; a swab will put that to right. the morning

be come, and you be sail under a skipper who know what he be

about.”



he wave his hand cordially, and leave she.



       *       *       *       *       *



all through that long night the hand stick to the pump, but the water

gain upon they inch by inch, and when the morning break at last, the

vessel be deep and heavy, roll sluggishly, and leak fast.



the sun be a welcome sight to the poor fagged seaman. up he spring,

flush the universe with a pink splendour, and disperse the heavy

cloud which hang in cluster about his rise-point.



up to that time there have be a fresh breeze blowing, the dreg, so

to speak, of the storm that have dismantle the ship; but this lull

as the sun rise, the sea smooth out its turbulent wave, and a day

fill with the promise of calm and beauty break on a scene as desolate

as any the heart can conceive.



one of the watch be in the forecastle; half the other watch on deck

be at the pump, the monotonous sound of which have be echo many

hour, together with the gushing of water surge over the deck, and

pour in stream from the ship’s side.



the vessel be now no more than a log on the water; not a shred of

canvas, with the exception of the mutilate spanker upon she, her

port bulwark crush, her fore-mast a stump, her deck exhibit a

scene of wild disorder--loose spar that have be wash from forward

encumber the entrance of the cuddy; the cuddy front batter to

piece, spare cask pile tumultuously about the poop-ladder, and the

long-boat, lash between the galley and the fore-mast, and which have

hold some of the live stock, full of water and drown sheep. on the

port side, the sever shroud, which have support the mast, trail

their black length in the sea; and all about the starboard side be

the fragment of rope and stay hack and tear to piece; while the

port main-chain have receive a wrench that have tear the bolt out of

the ship’s side, and leave the iron stand out.



as yet none of the passenger have make their appearance. the captain

have bring a chart from his cabin and unroll it upon the skylight,

and stand with his finger upon it, calculate his whereabouts by

yesterday’s reckoning, and wait for Holdsworth to return from the

hold, which he and the carpenter be explore for the leak.



the swell, which be heavy, surge against the ship’s side; but her

buoyancy be go, she hardly move to the pressure.



presently Holdsworth come out of the hold, wet and exhausted, follow

by the carpenter in bad plight.



“well?” exclaim the captain, in a subdued but eager voice.



“I be afraid it be a hopeless case, sir. she’s leak in a dozen

different place.”



“the bad leak be just amidship,” say the carpenter. “it’s under the

water in the hold. you can hear it bubble, but there’s no get at

it.”



“what sounding have you get?”



“eleven foot, sir!”



“Good God!” cry the skipper; “that’s an increase of a foot and a half

since seven bell.”



“we have well look to the boat, sir,” say Holdsworth, scan the

horizon.



“don’t talk of the boat yet, sir!” pant the skipper. “clap some

backstay on to the fore-mast and turn to and rig up the spare

staysail.”



“ay, ay, sir,” answer Holdsworth, and go forward to call all hand

and make what sail they could upon the stump of the fore-mast, whilst

the skipper walk passionately to and fro, perfectly conscious of the

hopelessness of their situation, but determine to blind his eye to it.



the first among the passenger to come on deck be the General, who

stand transfix by the spectacle of the wreck. he and some of the

other have attempt during the night to leave their berth and find

out the reason of the uproar that be go on over their head, but

have be literally blow back again the moment they show their nose

above the hatchway; and none of they, with the exception of Mrs.

Tennent, having have an opportunity of speak to either the captain

or Holdsworth, they be all in perfect ignorance that the vessel be

actually a wreck.



Whilst the General stand gasp and stare up aloft in search of the

majestic mast and sail that have rear their graceful height when he

be last on deck, he be join by Mr. St. Aubyn and Mr. Holland, both

of whom turn pale with amazement and fear.



then all three of they run up to the captain.



“oh, tell we what have happen? what will become of we? be we

sink?” cry the actor.



“where be the mast go? be it possible that we can ever reach

America in this condition?” gasp Mr. Holland.



“Captain, we seem to be in a frightful mess! why, we be founder,

sir!” exclaim the General, roll his eye over the sea and then

fix they upon the captain.



“gentleman! gentleman!” return the skipper, extend his hand,

“pray leave I! you distract I by your question.”



“be we in danger?” implore Mr. St. Aubyn.



“yes, sir; cann’t you see?” answer the skipper fiercely.



“be it possible?” stammer Mr. St. Aubyn, turn deadly pale.



“it be possible!” cry the skipper scornfully. “but I hope you be not

go to be afraid, sir. look over the break of the poop and you’ll

see the man pump for their life. danger be one thing, and drown

be another. I beg, sir, that you will control your fear. panic be

easily create, and you will remember, please, that we have woman among

we.”



say which he walk some pace away. Mr. St. Aubyn burst into tear;

Mr. Holland gaze around he with an air of stupefaction; the General

follow the skipper.



“be our position really serious?”



“yes, General; the ship’s bottom be leaky fore and aft.”



“what do you mean to do?”



“keep she afloat as long as I can. and now will you do I a service? go

and clap that snivel actor on the back and put some heart in he.

one coward make many, and this be no time for any man on board my ship

who value his life at one farthe to lose his pluck.”



by this time the hand forward have lash a block on the stump of the

fore-mast, and run up a spare staysail. Holdsworth then come aft

to the poop. the captain call he to the skylight, and they hang

together over the chart, calculate their neighbourhood, and devise

expedient in subdue tone. the man who be far enough forward to see

they as they stand together on the poop eye they curiously, and hold

muttering conversation together, some of they go to the ship’s side

and look over.



it be feel by every man among they that the vessel be sink;

and those who work the pump ply they languidly, as though

understand the fruitlessness of their labour.



Mrs. Tennent come on deck with her boy and stand near Holdsworth,

ask no question, but with an expression on her face that plainly

show she conscious of the danger and prepare for the bad. soon

afterwards come Mrs. Ashton, who shriek out when she behold the

dismaste hull, and clung convulsively to her husband. her maid

follow she, shivering, cow, with big eye stare everywhere like

a madwoman’s.



then a dead silence fall upon the ship, disturb only by the languid

clanking of the pump and the fall of the continuous stream of water

over the ship’s side.



it be now half-past eight o’clock. not a breath of air ripple the

surface of the sea, which rise and sink to a deep and voluminous

under-swell. some heavy cloud hang motionless in the blue sky, from

one of which a shower of rain be fall about a mile off, arch a

little brilliant rainbow upon the water.



presently Holdsworth advance to the poop-rail and sing out to the

carpenter to sound the well. this be do, and the report show that

the leak be gain fast upon the pump.



on this announcement all heart go out of the captain like a flash,

and leave he silent and spiritless.



he rally, go to Holdsworth’s side and call out: “belay that

pump there! boatswain, send all hand aft to the quarter-deck.”



the sound of the pumping cease, the man come aft in group and stand

in a crowd.



some of they be beard, some quite young; their attire be various

but always picturesque: here a red shirt, there white, here blue

serge, there coarse canvas, many with bare brown arm ring with

tattoo-mark; some in sea-boot, some with naked foot. the bright sun

gleam upon their upturned face, pale for want of sleep and with the

intense weariness of their long and heavy labour. there be no want

of respect suggest by any of they; but, on the contrary, there be a

rough and sympathetic deference in their manner and gaze as they fix

their eye on their white-haired skipper and listen to his speech,

which he deliver in a voice that now and then falter.



“my man, I have hope to keep our poor old hooker afloat by man the

pump day and night and head for home, which, with a breeze astern of

we, we might have reach even in the trim the gale last night have put

we in. but I find that the water be gain upon we fast than we can

pump it out, and it’s not my intention to fag you with useless work.

but in this sea the hull be likely to float for some hour yet; so we

shall have plenty of time to get the boat out and do the good we can

for our life. you be most of you Englishmen, and those who be not

be all brave fellow, and no man can be well than that, let he

hail from what port he may: so I can depend upon you turn to and

obey order quietly. there be thirty-four soul aboard of we and

four boat; there’s room for thirteen in the long-boat, and for seven

apiece in the quarter-boat. I’ll take charge of the long-boat, your

chief mate of the pinnace, and the second mate and boatswain will take

the other. there’s no hurry, and there must be no confusion. let a

dozen hand man the pump, the rest go to breakfast and then relieve

the pump. then tumble aft, get the long-boat launch, and do the good

we can for ourselves; and may God preserve we! amen.”



at the conclusion of this speech the man raise a cheer, the

boatswain’s pipe shrill, clang go the pump again, and the

quarter-deck be desert.



the captain turn to the passenger.



“lady and gentleman, these be ugly strait for I to have bring

you into, and I would that God in his mercy have ordain it otherwise.

I have be forty year at sea, and the like of this have never befall

I before. but that’s no matter. I’ll take care to do my duty by you to

the last. we have get enough boat to accommodate we all comfortably;

the weather promise fair, and it’s odd if every one of we ben’t snug

and safe on board some ship before to-night; for we’re right in the

track of homeward-bind ship from the United States. some of you will

come with I, and some go along with my chief officer, who have work

nobly for we all, and who’ll work as nobly right away through for those

who be with he whilst the life be in his body. lady, keep up your

courage; for a sink ship be a small matter when you’ve get good

boat, and be with man who know how to handle ’em. we’ll go below now

and make as good a breakfast as we can; we’ll then provision the boat

and put off, as sure as our heart can make we that God’s eye, which be

everywhere, will not lose sight of we.”



there be some murmur, and then a silence, which Mrs. Ashton break by

burst into a passion of tear. when she be in some measure calm,

the General say:



“fellow-passenger, will you unite with I in a prayer to our merciful

God for his protection?”



the man take off their hat, but the captain exclaim:



“General, there be hand for’ard who might like to join we. we should

give they the chance.”



Holdsworth go to the forecastle, and presently return with the

whole ship’s company follow he. the hand at the pump cease their

work to gather round the capstan, and the passenger attend the

skipper in a body to the quarter-deck. the old General stand in the

midst of the crowd and knelt--an example follow by the rest.



there be something too sacred in the nature of the extemporaneous

prayer offer up by the General to make it proper for I to write it

down here; but its effect be deeply impressive. noble, beyond the

power of word to describe, be the spectacle of the fine old american,

bare-headed and kneeling, his tremble hand clasp, his kindly,

honest face upturned to the sky, breathe forth in broken tone an

earnest entreaty that God, in his infinite mercy, would look down upon

his servant now and grant they his all-powerful protection in this

their hour of danger and suffering. equally affect be the spectacle

of the man--some with hand clasp before their face, some kneeling

with reverently-bow head, some gaze with earnest eye upon the

petitioner, and some even weeping--not unmanly tear--those who weep

be among the brave. the widow kneel with her arm about her child’s

neck, in an attitude both shielding and imploring. the husband and wife

pray hand-in-hand.



Overhead shine the joyous sun; the long and polished swell surge

against the sluggish vessel’s side; and amidst the tone of the old

General and the solemn murmur of those who follow his word, you

might hear the gurgling of the water in the hold, and feel the ship’s

grow weight and helplessness in the heavy and weary roll she give

to the movement of the sea.









CHAPTER VII.



in the BOATS.





by twelve o’clock they have bale the long-boat out and get she over the

ship’s side, a task of no small difficulty, since, the main-mast being

go, they have no mean of sling she. the other boat be also

lower, each with a hand in she, and hang in a group about the port

side of the ship, where the bulwark be smash.



each boat be properly supply with mast, sail, and oar; also

with water, biscuit, some rum in bottle, etc. they look mere

cookie-shell alongside the great hull, and it seem difficult to

realise that they would sustain among they the weight of the crowd of

man who stand by ready to jump into they.



the ship be settle fast. they have leave off pump she some time

since, and she have now sink a great hole under her port fore-chain to

a level with the water, which gush in like a cascade.



Mrs. Ashton be the first to be hand out of the ship. she scream

and hang back, and throw her hand out to her husband; but the man,

raise she firmly in their arm, offer she the while certain rough

and hearty encouragement, pass she over the ship’s side to the

sailor in the boat, who deposit she in the long-boat. the widow,

at her own request, be assign to holdsworth’s boat. they hand

her boy over first, and then she follow and seat herself in the

stern-sheet, hold her child tightly.



then rise a cry of “bear a hand! the ship will founder!”



Mrs. Ashton’s maid be pass out quickly, and then the passenger; the

actor and the General get into holdsworth’s boat, the other into

the long-boat. after this, the seaman, feel the imminence of the

danger, tumble rapidly into the boat; and then Holdsworth quit the

ship, follow by the captain.



“shove off!” shout the boatswain, who command one of the

quarter-boat.



out flash the oar; the boat part and stand aloof from the hull at

a distance of about three hundred foot.



it be impossible to describe the mingled emotion of dismay, curiosity,

and breathless suspense with which the man await the sinking of the

hull. there be not a soul among they who feel privileged to depart

until the vessel, so noble once, so desolate and break now, have sink

to her long home in the deep Atlantic. something absolutely of human

pathos that appeal to the heart, as the distress of a live thing

might, seem mixed up in the aspect of unutterable desolation she

present, the more defined and keen because of the mocking joyousness

of the sunlight that stream over she, and the fair and azure surface

of the sea on which she rest. her figure-head, uninjure by the

gale--as perfect a piece of workmanship as ever grace a vessel’s

bow--might, by no violent fantasy, have be deem the spirit of the

ship poise herself an instant ere she soar towards the sky. the two

sail upon she flap hollowly to her roll, and once there come from

her silent deck a sound as of a bell be strike, which fill the

listen sailor with awe, and set they bend superstitious glance

in search of the Shadow that be toll the ship’s funeral knell.



all on a sudden the hull lurch in the direction of the boat and

expose her slope deck. “she’s go now!” cry one of the man.

this be true. down sink her stern slowly, so slowly that many second

pass ere her stern-window be on a level with the water. she

right, and her bow, high raise, point the shattered jib-boom

aloft, as though in her last agony she raise her mangle limb to

heaven. she then sink stern foremost, the deep tragical dignity

attend her descent: the silence unbroken, save by the sullen

gurgling and bubble of the water force itself through her deck.

her stern disappear; then her bow stand black on the water; they

vanish, and the fore-mast with the sail upon it alone remain

visible. low and low these crept, but still it be possible to

trace the undulating outline of the hull in the clear water. the

sponge-like sail suck up the water quick than it sink, and arch a

brown shadow upon its snow; then the jagged top of the fore-mast only

be to be see; this vanish, and the boat be leave alone upon the

mighty surface of the deep.



a deep silence prevail among the man while she be sink; and not

for some moment after she have disappear do the spell upon they

break, and a long and tremulous sigh escape they.



then the captain’s voice in the long-boat be hear:



“Mr. Holdsworth, our course be east-north-east. every boat have a

compass aboard of she. now, my man, up with your mast; we may get a

breeze before sun-down. and, meanwhile, out with your oar and make

what way we can towards the old country!”



the stout-hearted fellow answer with a cheer; in all four boat they

ship the mast; out go the oar, and the water bubble round the

stem.



the man be right to cheer. God know they need what encouragement

each other’s voice could give they.



what pen shall describe the overwhelming sense of the immensity of

the sea, now that its surface could be touch by the hand--its huge

presence so close! that sense alone be a weight that oppress the

heart of the passenger like death. the height of a large ship from

the edge of the water implant a habit of security; but here, they

overhang the deep by an arm’s length, and near enough to see their own

pale face mirror in the green abyss from which they be separate

by plank not much stout than the sole of a boot.



there be in Holdsworth’s boat: himself, Mrs. Tennent and her boy,

Mr. St. Aubyn, the General, and two seaman--Winyard and Johnson; in

all, seven soul. the long-boat, in the distance, look crowded; but

then she be the large of the boat. astern of she row the boat

command by the boatswain; astern of Holdsworth’s, the boat command

by Mr. Thompson, the second mate.



there could be no purpose gain by row, for, let they ply the oar

as hard as they would, they could not urge the heavy boat fast

than three mile an hour. holdsworth steer for the long-boat, and

propose to the captain that they should lay their oar in and wait

for a breeze; which be agree to. the sun shine hot upon the glassy

sea, and the boat hoist their sail as a protection against the

ray. and for ever the man bent earnest and anxious glance round the

bare and polished horizon for a sail.



in holdsworth’s boat the two seaman sit forward, talk together in

low voice; Mr. St. Aubyn recline with his back against the mast,

glance incessantly about he with quick, scared eye, but quite

silent, as though the novelty and horror of the situation be more

than his mind could receive, and he be labour to master it. the

General’s face be placid, and even hopeful. the widow, hold her son

at her side, keep her eye bent downwards, and often her lip move.



in the other boat the man talk, and often call to one another.

their voice sounded force and unreal as the tone float across the

water, and in a strange manner heighten the unspeakable sense of

solitude inspire by the boundless and tenantless deep.



for some time the little boy appear to share in the feeling which

hold all but the two sailor in Holdsworth’s boat silent; but he

presently grow restless, and pull his mother by the skirt, ask she

in a whisper when the ship be come back to take they on board again.



“another ship will come and take we soon, pray God, Louis,” answer

the mother.



“but where be our ship, mamma?”



Holdsworth overhear the question, and answer in his hearty, cheery

manner:



“look well about you, Louis, and, by-and-by, you will see a tiny spot

of white rise somewhere on that clear circle,” point round the

horizon, “and that will be our ship come to take we home.”



“oh, Mr. Holdsworth!” say the actor, in a faint voice, “if the wind

rise, will not the water get into our boat and sink it?”



“not if I can help it, sir. I be wait for the wind to rise. there be

no chance of a rescue in this calm.”



“though we should be grateful for this calm,” exclaim the General,

“for it have enable we all to leave the sink ship in safety.”



“I have lose my all in that ship--all the money I have in the world, and

my clothe, and thing that be priceless to I,” moan Mr. St. Aubyn.



the widow raise her head, and exclaim, “I too have lose much that

be precious, and which no money could ever purchase. but, so far, God

have watch over we and preserve our life, and I can well spare all

else--all else--if he will but leave I this treasure.” she weep as she

bow her head over her child.



“let we not murmur, Mr. St. Aubyn,” say the General softly, “but call

upon he who rebuke the wind and wave in the sea of Galilee, and

calm they. have not we his disciple’ faith? he be in our midst,

watch over we, even as we sit now. this ocean be but the symbol of

his majesty and might: his servant who will bear we safely on its bosom

at its Lord’s command. our Saviour sleep not, neither will he forsake

we. we forget he when we yield to our fear.”



“thank you for those word, sir,” say the man name Johnson. “God

don’t forget those who be at sea any more than those who stop on

shore. I have be bad off nor this, sir, lash to a raft for

forty-eight hour, and here I be to tell the story. beg your

pardon, sir,” he add, touch his cap, and draw back respectfully.



by this time the boat have drift some distance apart; but the voice

talk in they could still be hear with the utmost clearness, so

exquisite a vehicle of sound be the smooth surface of water.



it be one o’clock by Holdsworth’s watch when they behold the horizon

in the east darken under what resemble the shadow of a cloud, and

the voice of a man in the long-boat come across the water, cry, “a

breeze at last, my boy!”



it be a light breeze, and move very slowly, but it fill the sail

and send the boat ripple gently through the water. as it come foul

of the course the skipper mean to take, they lie as close to it as

they could; and eye be strain in its direction for the welcome

sail, some of they whisper, it might bring along with it. some white

cloud come up, and as they soar about the horizon, they so closely

resemble the sail of ship that even Holdsworth’s experienced eye be

deceive, and he gaze intently with a beat heart.



the breeze freshen, and the unequal sailing quality of the boat

manifest themselves. the long-boat draw ahead rapidly; Holdsworth’s

come next; the other two fell astern. the wind, though in reality

light, seem tolerably strong, owe to the boat sail close to it.

Holdsworth’s boat lie over, which terrify St. Aubyn, and make he

cle to the weather-gunwale.



“you’re afeard rather early, sir,” say one of the

seaman--Winyard--sarcastically.



“the boat will turn over!” gasp the actor.



indeed his fear and despair be pitiable, and have not only dull his

eye, but pinch and thin his face as though he be fresh from a

sick bed.



“take a pull at this,” say Holdsworth, offer he some rum, and

heartily commiserate the man’s suffering. but St. Aubyn shake his

head, and gaze with distend eye at the water, shiver repeatedly,

and sometimes talk to himself.



in order to let the hinder boat come up, the long-boat ahead from

time to time stop her way by put she helm down, which example

Holdsworth regularly follow; and so they sail throughout the whole

afternoon, the breeze remain steady and the sea smooth.



the boat command by Holdsworth be about twenty-seven foot long, with

seven foot or thereabout of beam. there be a locker aft, which have

be fill with small bag of bread, as they call biscuit at sea; and

forward be one small and two large keg of water, and a tin pannikin

to serve out the allowance with. at the bottom of the boat be a set

of grating, mean to keep the foot clear of any water that might be

ship, with a well convenient to get at, and half a cocoa-nut-shell

with a handle let into it, to bale the boat with. the boat be new,

stoutly build, and rig with a lug-sail. a small compass have be put

in she, and Holdsworth have lash it carefully to a thwart. this be

the only nautical instrument they have with they, and unless they could

guess their whereabout, it would not, after a time, be of much service.



they have during the afternoon ascertain the quantity of provision

and water they carry, and discover that there be enough to

last for about ten day, provide each person have no more than two

biscuit, and a quarter full of the pannikin of water, a day. they

have also three bottle of rum. the first allowance be serve out by

Holdsworth at five o’clock in the afternoon. a biscuit be hand to

each person; the little boy and the two seaman eat theirs hungrily:

the General and Holdsworth nibble only a portion of theirs: but Mrs.

Tennent and the actor eat nothing. the mother give half her biscuit to

her boy, and put the other half in her pocket for he to eat during

the night. the actor refuse his allowance altogether, and Holdsworth

return it to the bag he have take it from.



all the other boat remain in sight; the long-boat ahead, and

the other two at unequal distance astern. from time to time they

encourage each other by wave their hat; and just before sunset some

of the man in the long-boat strike up a hymn, the chorus of which stole

faintly across the breeze, and mingle with the bubble play of the

water round the boat’s bow.



the sun go down, brand the great ocean with an angry glare; but

nothing be visible upon either horizon but the deceptive tail-end of

cloud rise or dwindle. the breeze grow strong as the darkness

creep on, and they lower the sail and take a couple of reef in it,

whilst there be light enough abroad for they to see what they be

about. they soon lose sight of the other boat, and holdsworth find

the wind draw ahead, put the boat round, judge that the other

would do so likewise.



now, if at no other time, be the sense of the profound helplessness

of their position force upon they. it be easy to write and read of

an open boat far out in the Atlantic Ocean, and darkness around; but

none save those who have experience the situation can realise all the

horror of it. wave which would scarcely more than ripple against

the side of a ship, make a dangerous sea for an open boat, and arch

their seethe head over she with a threat in every one of they of

destruction.



but _the_ overpowering sensation be the near presence of the sea. your

foot be below its surface; your head but an arm’s length above it. and

you hear the quick splash of the boat’s bow as she jump awkwardly

into the hollow of the wave, wobble as she go forward with jerk

and many stoppage, while now and again the sea chuck a handful of

spray into your eye as an earnest of the way it mean to deal with you

presently, when the wind have make it more angry.



the star come out and shine placidly among the cloud which be

roll away to the north-west. there be a short quick sea, which

make the boat dip uncomfortably, and now and again whisk a sheet

of spray over the seaman who sit forward. but there be more south

than east in the breeze, which keep the temperature of the night

mild. the little boy fall asleep in his mother’s arm; Mr. St. Aubyn

recline against the mast, his arm fold, and his head droop on

his breast, start at interval as the spray fall like a shower of

rain in the boat, but speedily relapse again into the sluggish or

semi-unconscious state into which he have fall shortly after the

sun have go down. the General and Holdsworth sometimes converse.

presently Winyard, turn his coat collar over his ear, slip under

the thwart, where he coil himself like a cat, and go to sleep.



“I wish I could induce you to lie down, Mrs. Tennent,” say Holdsworth.

“my coat will make you a capital pillow. I don’t want it indeed. I have

sleep on deck in my shirt-sleeve in colder night than this. I shalln’t

put the boat about again to-night if this wind hold, and you will lie

with your boy alongside of you as snugly as possible on this seat.”



she thank he, but say it would be useless for she to lie down; she

should not be able to sleep.



“you have eat nothing all day,” say the General; “you must not allow

your strength to fail you. pray try to eat a little biscuit.”



Holdsworth hand she a biscuit, and she break a piece of it off and

appear to munch it; but in the darkness they could not tell how

little she eat.



no sign be to be see of the other boat, although once Holdsworth

imagine he hear a voice halloe a long way to windward. the boat’s

head be now point east-north-east; but she lie close to the wind

and make scarcely more than four knot an hour. the jump of the sea

deaden her way materially; but this jump decrease as the night wear

on, for the wave grow long, with steady intermission. at twelve

o’clock, Holdsworth, who be wear out by his long spell at the helm,

call to Johnson to awaken Winyard. up jump the seaman from the

bottom of the boat and come aft. Holdsworth give he the yoke-line,

and bid Johnson lie down and get some rest, seat himself on the

lee-side of the mast and scan the sea to right and leave of he.

the old General have fall asleep right along the thwart on which he

sit, his face bury in his arm. the boy sleep soundly in his mother’s

arm, but whether she slumber or not, Holdsworth could not tell. once

Mr. St. Aubyn start up as from a nightmare, mutter some break

sentence, and be silent again.



“keep she close,” say Holdsworth to Winyard, “and watch the sea.”



“you have well take some rest, sir. I can handle the boat whilst you’re

down.”



“no. I’ll wait until Johnson have have his nap.”



so pass two hour.



it be draw near half-past two in the morning when Winyard call,

in a loud whisper:



“Master, ben’t that a ship to windward, there?”



no one in the boat hear he but Holdsworth. he jump up and peer

into the starlit gloom ahead, where, sure enough, the outline of a dark

shadow could be trace, though only by look on one side of it.



“yes, that’s a ship!” he answer hoarsely; “but she’s too far to

windward to hear our shout. have we any light aboard of we? quick!”



he pull the General, who leap up, rub his eye.



“have you any match about you?”



“no--what be it?”



“there’s a ship yonder! I could souse my handkerchief in rum and

set fire to it. hi! Mr. St. Aubyn! feel if you have a match in your

pocket.” but the actor answer with a stupefied stare, whereupon

Holdsworth search his pocket without avail.



Johnson be awake, stand up in the bow, with his arm lift.



“ship ahoy!” roar Holdsworth. one might have think the voice deep

and powerful enough to have carry twice the distance of that gliding

shadow.



they wait breathlessly; but no sound be return.



“altogether, now!” shout Holdsworth; “one, two, three--ship ahoy!”



the united voice sound like a shriek of death-agony rise out of

the ebony-colour deep; but no response be bring back by the wind.



“o God!” rave Winyard. “they’d see we if we could only show a light!”



“she be run before the wind,” cry Johnson; “she’s pass we!”



“put your helm up!” roar Holdsworth. “we’ll follow she. she may hear

we when we get she to leeward.”



they let go the halliard, shake the reef out of the sail, and set it

again, slacken the sheet far out. the boat head for the visionary

shadow, which be fast fade in the universal gloom, and the foam

boil under and alongside of she.



“altogether again!” sing out Holdsworth.



once more go forth the loud, despair chorus, to be follow by

silence. they might as well have attempt to chase a cloud. Keen as

the sailor’ eye be, they could no long perceive the shadow.



“never mind!” exclaim Holdsworth, cheerily, “there may be other near

we; we’ll keep a sharp look-out.”



“she may fall in with one of the other boat,” say Johnson, “and,

maybe, she’ll cruise about to find we.”



the chill of disappointment pass, and they grow hopeful. the mere

fact of having sight a ship impart a new encouragement.



“we should be in the track of outward-bounder,” say Holdsworth. “give

we a hand here, Johnson, to take these reef in. bring she close again,

Winyard. pray God we shall be talk of this night on a ship’s deck by

noon to-morrow.”



the little boy, who have be awaken by the halloing of the man,

shiver, creep close to his mother’s side, and fall asleep again.









CHAPTER VIII.



the second day.





“Mr. Holdsworth,” say the General, “will you not let I watch whilst

you get some sleep? you have be up now for nearly three night

run, and I beg you to consider the preciousness of your life to we

all.”



“I be much oblige to you, General. I’ll do as you ask I. Johnson,

come aft and relieve Winyard here. keep a sharp look-out, my lad, and

wake I up if the breeze freshen.” he seat himself in the bottom of

the boat, rest his head upon a thwart, and in a few moment be fast

asleep.



a hush fall upon the boat which nothing break but the quick angry

sousing of the bow as the boat fall with her short length into the

trough of the sea. the widow have fall asleep at last, and lean

against Johnson, who steer, whilst her boy slumber with his head on

her lap. the sailor sit motionless for fear of wake she, call once

in a whisper to Winyard to come aft and look at the little ’un, and

tell he if he think that God would let such innocence be drown.



“he’s the image of my little bill,” answer Winyard, stoop his

bearded face low that he might see the child’s feature. “I’m glad the

poor lady’s sleep. keep steady, Dick, or you’ll wake she. she ain’t

taste a mossil of food all this blessed day, and it ’ud cut I to the

heart to see the little ’un leave without a mother.”



“ay, and so it would I, Harry. may be we’ll sight a ship to-morrow.

I’ve get my old woman to keep ashore, and I guess, when rent-time

come, she willn’t know what to do, unless I get back.”



“I wish I have some ’baccy with I. ain’t get a bit in all my pocket.

I wonder where t’other boat have get to?”



the conversation, which have be carry on in hoarse whisper, be at

this point interrupt by a movement of the little boy. Johnson raise

his hand and Winyard creep forward, where he sit like a bronze statue,

watch the horizon.



it be about four o’clock, as the seaman guess, when the wind, which

have be pretty steady from the south-east, lull, and then veer

northward come on to blow freshly. the man awaken Holdsworth, who

go to the helm. Mrs. Tennent, who have be arouse by the withdrawal

of the sailor’s shoulder, shiver with the cold and crouch down to

hug herself in her clothe. indeed, the north wind be cold enough;

but Holdsworth, observe the woman’s condition, whip off his coat

without a word and button it over her shoulder, silence she

protest by kindly laughter and encourage word.



the change of wind produce a cross sea which drench the boat and

make her movement horribly uncomfortable. the wind increase, bring

up large cloud, each of which be charge with a small rain-load

squall of its own. the sea rise, and matter begin to wear an ugly

look. the man close-reef the sail, and holdsworth find that the

boat ship water when on the wind, let she go free; and away they

scud with a breeze grow in force every five minute astern of

they. the utmost vigilance be now needful in steer the boat. the

wave be quick and irritable, and break in noisy surface of foam on

either gunwale, and from time to time it seem inevitable that their

curl crest must arch themselves clean into the boat and swamp she.

Holdsworth parry they with the rudder like a fencer with a foil. his

eye be marvellously quick, the movement of his hand delicate and

unerring. what the wave be to that small open boat, the sea of

the Pacific under a westerly gale be to a full-rig ship. she sink

into hollow half-mast deep, where the air be stagnant, behind and

before her black wall of illuminated water, the hinder one of which,

catch she under the stern, raise she with irresistible force to a

height that turn her inmate giddy and sick; and there, expose to

the wind, her sail blow out to crack limit and hurl she madly

forward--to sink into a new abysm, to experience another interval of

breathless, deadly calm.



“may God have mercy upon we!” exclaim the General, in one of these

awful interval, fold his arm tightly and fix his eye on a

tower sea rear astern of they like a hill.



but Holdsworth’s voice echo cheerily: “she be a brave boat, General;

and it’s not my intention to let such ripple as these” ... the rest of

the sentence be drown in the hooting of the wind, as one of these

“ripple” swing the boat high in the full face of it, and the “ripple”

itself break into an acre of foam under the boat’s bow.



the two sailor sit like log, ready for the bad; yet with a supreme

confidence in Holdsworth’s skill as a steersman, which he have already

illustrate in a hundred subtle way, appreciable to none but they.

St. Aubyn lie in the bottom of the boat, motionless. the General,

hold on to the mast, be seat amidship, commend his soul, and

the soul of his comrade, to God, in inaudible prayer. the widow

crouch with her boy, who still sleep, in the stern-sheet; and

beside she tower the form of Holdsworth, a yoke-line in each hand,

his body incline forward, his shirt-sleeve roll above his elbow,

every nerve, every muscle in he string to the tension of steel,

his glitter eye fix upon the sea ahead, his whole attitude

resemble a sculptured personation of audacity, skill, and the fine

british courage.



the dawn break and find they swinge over an ugly sea, with the

wind moderate. as the pallid light spread over the bleak surface of

gray and move water, the weary shipwreck man turn their eye

about in search of a vessel; but the ocean be tenantless save by

its own leaping sea, which play around in an eternal mockery of a

fluctuate hilly horizon.



they be now sail due south. holdsworth steer the boat, and

Winyard bale she out; but, thank to the wonderful skill with which

the rudder be use, no single sea have be ship, and what water

there be consist of the spray that have be blow into the boat off

the crest of the wave when she be in their hollow.



the sun rise and diffuse an exquisite pink through the ribbed cloud

that bar the sky. his glorious light flashed jewel upon the water,

and send a message of hope among the inmate of the tiny boat strive

amid the wild and throbbing wilderness of the deep.



the General stand up, and arch his hand over his eye, gaze slowly

and intently around the whole circumference of the water-line.



“we be alone,” he say; but instantly correct himself. “no, I speak

thoughtlessly. we have God with we. he have be with we all night.

we thank Thee, o God,” he murmur, fold his hand and reverently

lift his face to the sky, “for Thy protection; and we humbly

implore Thee not to abandon we, but to be with we in our anguish and

desolation, and in Thine own good time to snatch we from the peril

that encompass we.”



they all cry amen!



“the wind’s lulling, master,” say Johnson to Holdsworth. “we’ll have

the sea smooth before long.”



“oh, Mr. Holdsworth!” exclaim Mrs. Tennent, start up suddenly and

hurriedly remove his coat from her shoulder, “how cruelly selfish

I have be to deprive you of this covering throughout the long cold

night.”



“I’m well without it,” cry Holdsworth. “even my shirt-sleeve be

too heavy for I--you see I have have to turn they up. Winyard, rouse up

Mr. St. Aubyn. we shall be none the bad, any of we, for a mouthful of

biscuit.”



he pat the little boy with his left hand, with his right keep the

boat’s head straight as a line.



“come, sir, wake up, please. Biscuit’s go to be serve out,” say

Winyard, pull the actor somewhat unceremoniously by the arm.



both seaman think he a white-livere gentleman, and despise he

accordingly.



the poor man lie athwart the boat, his leg double up and his arm

hide his face. he shake his head, without raise it, when Winyard

pull he, but do not speak. the man, think he numb or cramp,

raise he up; whereupon St. Aubyn struggle to his foot, and look

about he with a fix smile. that smile make his face terrible

to behold, for he be deadly white, and a wild fire, with no more

merriment in it than a madman’s laugh, shine in his eye, which look

unnaturally large, and his lip be blue and thin, and lay his tooth

almost bare.



“you fellow may shrug your shoulder, and some of you may hiss,” he

mutter, never remit his fix smile, but speak through his

tooth and bring his clench fist upon his knee, “but you shalln’t

starve I, because you don’t understand what true acting mean. do you

think I cann’t tell what this hollowness, this sinking be, here!” lay

his hand upon his stomach and send his lustrous eye travel

over the other, who watch he in silence. “you be starve I, you

fiend, and drive a poor actor to death. but do you think you will

force he into the workhouse? no, by God! he have spirit, and will seek

a new home, a new country, a new world, rather! who tell I I cannot

act? try I in farce, in comedy, in tragedy! see now--shall I play you

Tony Lumpkin?” he begin to sing:



  “‘then, come, put the jorum about,

    and let we be merry and clever!

  our heart and our liquor be stout,

    here’s the three Jolly pigeon for ever.’



“or shall I give you Lear?” he stretch out his hand to the sea:--



  “‘blow, wind, and crack your cheek! rage! blow!

  you cataract and hurricanoe, spout

  till you have drench’d our steeple, drown’d the cock!

  you sulphurous and think-execute fire,

  vaunt-courier to oak-cleave thunderbolt,

  Sings my white head!’



be not that fine, gentleman? now turn about with more shrug, and drive

I mad with your canot. ha! ha! ha!”



his laughter be shocking. the seaman shrink away from he.



“he have go mad with terror!” whisper the General.



the widow hide her face in her hand.



“Johnson,” say Holdsworth, “mix some rum and water in that pannikin

and give it to he with a biscuit.”



the actor take both, stare first at the pannikin, then at the biscuit.



“gentleman!” he cry, with his wild smile, “I be Timon of Athens,

sour, crusty, and” ... he stop with a laugh. “but before his mind

go, he pledge his friend, stand thus:--‘Here’s to you--dog!’”

he fling the content of the pannikin at Holdsworth, and dash the

vessel into the boat; “and with this, I feed the wind!” and he hurl

the biscuit into the sea.



“seize he!” shriek Holdsworth, notice a quick movement on the

actor’s part. the man spring forward, but too late to catch he. he

leap on to the thwart and bound overboard with a peal of laughter,

ere you could have cry “hold!” and vanish under the crest of a

wave that be break at the moment under the boat.



“see!” cry the General; “he have come to the surface! there be his

head! he may be save yet!”



but the boat be foam through the water at six or seven knot an

hour; the sea be still so lively that to broach she to would have be

to capsize she in an instant.



“we cannot save he!” exclaim Holdsworth, bitterly, grasp the

situation at once; and keep the boat’s head doggedly away.



those who watch the drown man, see he, a mere dot, on the

tumbling water, heave high on the summit of a wave, with both his

arm upraise; then down he sink into the trough of the sea, the next

wave boil over he, and they behold he no more.



the General cover his face with his hand and weep aloud. the widow

be so sick and faint with the horror of the scene, that she lean

back, white and motionless, with her eye close. Johnson come aft

and put some rum to her lip, which revive she, and then she begin

to weep silently, cast shudder backward glance at the sea, and

hug her boy to she passionately. she have become, during the night,

the very ghost of her former self; her complexion be ashen, her eye

hollow, her countenance gaunt with a hard, weird look of old age upon

it. Holdsworth notice that her dress be wet with salt water and clung

to her leg; but this it be impossible to remedy. infinite pity smite

he as he gaze from she to her child, and he hand she a biscuit,

entreat she to eat it. the boy eat his allowance quickly; but even

out of he something of the youthfulness and freshness of his infancy

have pass; a perception of their danger and misery appear to have

visit he; and he cling to his mother’s side, hold her dress with

one hand whilst he eat the biscuit, and gaze about he with puzzle

eye, in which be mix up a strong expression of terror.



the impression produce by the sudden and tragical death of the actor

be more lasting on the widow and the General than on the sailor,

who be too sensible of their own peril to find more than a pass

occasion of horror in the scene they have witness. they and Holdsworth

eat a biscuit apiece and drink their allowance of water mix with rum;

but the General turn, with an expression of loathing in his face,

from the food, and Mrs. Tennent could not be induce to eat more than

a few mouthful. both drink of the water.



the wave be still lively enough to demand the utmost care in the

steering of the boat; but Winyard have prove himself a smart steersman,

and Holdsworth, whose hand be cramp and blue with long grasping of

the yoke-line, gladly surrender his place to the sailor.



“strange,” mutter the General, “that we sight no ship!”



“our course be east,” say Holdsworth. “if the wind would haul round a

few point to the west, I’d out reef and bear up.”



the breeze hold until twelve o’clock, when it slacken. the sea having

grow smoother during the morning, Holdsworth haul the sheet of the

sail aft and steer south-east by the compass, which be as close to

the sea as he deem it advisable to sail the boat. the sun now shine

hot overhead, which greatly comfort Mrs. Tennent and revive the

spirit of her boy, who pull a piece of string from his pocket, to

which he fasten a crooked pin, and begin to fish. as the afternoon

advance, the wind gradually die away, and a thin haze settle upon

the southern horizon, portend both heat and calm. the water’s

surface turn to an aspect of polished steel; the boat rise and sink

to the swell, easily and with a soothe motion, and the sail flap

idly against the mast.



during the afternoon, some porpoise come to the surface of the water,

about a stone’s throw from the boat, roll their gleam black

body in a southerly direction.



“they always make for the quarter the wind’s come from,” say Winyard.



“I be afraid we shall have no wind to-night,” answer Holdsworth; “the

weather look too settle.”



they watch the fish turn their solemn somersault until they be

out of sight, and then, as though to meet hope half-way, Holdsworth

swarm up the boat’s mast and sweep the horizon with pierce eye,

but see nothing but the boundless water-line pale away against the

sky.



the sun go down in glorious majesty, burnish the deep, and

dazzle the eye with a splendour of small radiant cloud, pierce with

thread of glory, and momentarily change their brilliant hue until

the orb be under the sea, when they turn a bright red colour. the

twilight follow fast, the star come out, and the darkness of night

fall upon the lonely deep.









CHAPTER IX.



the third day.





as no object could be serve by keep the sail hoist, they haul

it down and spread a portion of it over the widow and her child.

Holdsworth keep watch till ten, and then awaken Winyard, who watch

till twelve; afterwards Johnson watch; and so the three man take

turn and turn about, all through the long and breathless night, until

daybreak, which find Winyard awake in the stern-sheet, watch the

pale dawn break in the east.



its approach at first be imperceptible. a faint gray mingle in

the prevail darkness, and gradually grow more define; the

star languish, and those in the extreme east hide themselves.

then a clear light break stealthily about the eastern horizon;

the sea catch the glimmering dawn, and mirror a pale and sickly

illumination, infinitely vague, as would be the reflection in a

look-glass of a faint light. but soon the lustre broaden, and

streak of horizontal silver float above the deep, and stand in

layer of crystalline clearness, await a more ardent transformation.

then a delicate pink flush a wide space in the eastern sky, which

spread and spread until the farthermost heaven shake off the heavy

curtain of the night and melt into a pale and visionary blue.

Anon, upon the eastern water-line, stand a mere speck of white and

exceedingly brilliant light--a pure silver point of glory--which, as

the eye watch it, increase in size, fling flake upon flake of

glitter icy splendour upon the water, until, as with a sudden bind,

it soar in sun-like shape and flood the heaven and the sea with

strong rejoicing light.



it awake Holdsworth, who start up and stare around he.



“look, sir!” say Winyard, in a whisper that sound fierce with

excitement, point towards the south-east, where, upon the remote

horizon, stand a white speck clearly define by the sunshine.



Holdsworth hollow his hand tube-wise, gaze intently for some

moment, and then cry, “a sail!”



“Becalmed, master, as we be!” shout Winyard; whereat the sleeper in

the boat stir and open their eye.



“out oar, my man!” sing out Holdsworth. “a sail, general! do you see

she? look, Mrs. Tennent; follow the direction of my finger! she be

becalm! she cannot escape we! Hurrah, my lad!”



in less time than it take I to write it, both seaman be bend to

the oar like madman, make the water break in clear line of ripple

against the boat’s bow, which head directly for the distant sail.

language be powerless to describe the excitement of the poor creature.

Mrs. Tennent shed tear; the General, upon whose constitution,

debilitate by old age, their perilous situation and the mental

suffering which accompany it be begin seriously to tell, stand

clutch the mast, his eye rivet upon the white speck, and his

attenuate face flush with eagerness and hope. the man, stretch to

the long oar, look from time to time over their shoulder to remark

the progress they be make, and encourage each other with cheerful

cry.



they have but two oar, and the boat be heavy and move reluctantly to

the pressure of the blade; moreover, the man be weaken by exposure

and want of nourish food. still they urge the boat through the

water at pretty nearly three mile an hour; and Holdsworth repeatedly

encourage they by represent that every stroke of the oar bring

the boat nearer within the range of the vision of those on board the

vessel, and increase the likelihood, under God’s providence, of their

rescue.



when the vessel be first sight, she could not have be less than

ten mile distant; this be make manifest by the circumstance of their

continue to row a full hour before they have expose her large sail,

and even then her hull be invisible. the ocean, meanwhile, remain

perfectly polished, without a shadow anywhere upon its vast bosom to

indicate the passage of wind.



the seaman presently show symptom of distress, Holdsworth take an

oar, and bade Winyard, whom he replace, to drink some rum, and hand a

draught to Johnson. the General beg to take Johnson’s place for a

time while the man rest himself; but the poor old gentleman, after

row a few stroke, find himself utterly unequal to the weight of

the oar, and he return to his seat cover with perspiration, and

breathe with difficulty and pain.



it be seven o’clock by Holdsworth’s watch before the hull of the

vessel grow discernible; and then Johnson, whose sight be very keen,

pronounce she to be a large three-masted brigantine. she have all her

sail set, but she be still so remote as scarcely to be distinguish

by an inexperienced eye from a cloud.



Winyard, who steer, ask Mrs. Tennent for her black shawl, with

which he climb up the mast and make it fast, flagwise. the motion of

the boat hardly create draught enough to unfurl it; but, droop as

it do, it could scarcely fail to serve as a signal. the calm which

would have dishearten they under other circumstance, as suspend

all prospect of a rescue whilst it last, be now deeply welcome

to they as a guarantee of their speedy release from the horror of

their situation. as the vessel grow in dimension under the desperate

exertion of the rower, Mrs. Tennent become hysterical, laugh and

weep at the same moment, and hug her boy passionately to she. the

old General stand up wave his handkerchief, and talk to himself,

even wildly at time.



Holdsworth be now steer, and he bend eager glance in search of

some signal, some flag whose spot of colour would surely be visible

even at that distance, to tell they they be see.



suddenly he cry out:



“Johnson--Winyard! look! tell I what you can see?”



the man rest on their oar simultaneously and turn their head

towards the vessel. a silence ensue, last some moment. then

Johnson exclaim:



“there’s smoke come out of she. don’t you see it, like a blue line

between her fore and main mast?”



“maybe they’re boil the pitch-kettle abaft the galley, as we use

aboard the ‘Mary Ann,’” say Winyard, wipe his forehead with his bare

arm; “let’s make for she, boy.”



and he fall to his oar again.



the water ripple round the boat’s side once more, and the shawl at

the mast-head flutter.



five minute pass; and then Holdsworth, whose eye never wander

from the vessel, see something black pass up her sail, rise over her

mast and there hang. another follow; another yet; volume now, and

each volume denser, blacker than its predecessor.



“she’s on fire!” he shout; at which the man tilt up their oar and

stand up.



quicker and quicker the black volume, like ball grow in size as

they mount, be vomit up, and resemble an endless series of

balloon rise from the deck; they meet when they reach a short

height above the mast, mingle and form into a livid line which

gradually stretch north and south, but very slowly. the spectator

in the boat be paralyse; but their emotion be too various and

conflicting to permit the deep, deadly one of disappointment and

despair to make themselves feel as yet.



Holdsworth break a long silence by exclaim, “can you see they

put off?”



“no--I see nothing. I reckon she’s abandon hour ago,” answer

Winyard.



the General sink upon his knee with a groan, clutch the gunwale and

stare at the burn vessel over his knuckle. there be no sign of

a boat anywhere--no sign of living creature be on board the doom

craft. the smoke, which appear to have be pen up in the hold,

have now escape on a sudden; and thick and thick yet it mount,

mark an ugly stain upon the pure morning sky, and hang sombre and

menacing over the smoulder vessel like a thunder-cloud. soon a short

tongue of flame protrude; then come another and a long one, which

seem to whiz with a yellow radiance up the rigging and bury itself

in the smoke. then the fire burst out in all direction; in the time

it would take you to count ten, the vessel be a mass of flame, keen,

brilliant, coiling, with stream of thin blue smoke sail out of

each yellow ray, mingle with particle of burn matter that wink

among the heavy cloud like firefly in a dark evening. she be four

or five mile off; a mere toy on the surface of the sea; and yet those

who watch she from the boat could distinctly hear the crackling of

the fire, and the seething of her flame spar as they fall into the

water. Anon the fire flicker, and up drive new volume of smoke,

which pale and thin as the rekindled flame burst forth again and

dart their spear-shape fang into the smoke-hide sky.



for above an hour this terrible and magnificent spectacle last,

during which not a word escape the lip of the inmate of the boat.

their mind seem incapable of understand the extinction of the

hope that have sustain they since sunrise, by a catastrophe so

unexpected, by a horror which unite the extreme of sublimity with

the extreme of misfortune, and which appear scarcely more than a

vision--so unforeseen, so incredible, so illusive, so ghastly, so

terrific be it.



by this time the whole of the upper mast be go, add fuel to the

interior furnace of the hull, and the three low mast be burn

stump. suddenly the blaze mass appear to rise in the air; the

fire go out as if by magic, and an opaque cloud, burnish a livid

blue by the sunshine, float on the water. not for many moment after

the flame have vanish come a concussion that rent the air, loud and

violent as a thunder-clap among mountain. the cloud lift, and where

the vessel have be the sea be a smooth outline, reflect only the

dark shadow of the slowly-mount smoke, and dot here and there

with black remnant of the wreck.



“Mr. Holdsworth,” say the General in a faint voice, sink backwards

against a thwart, “I be die.”



his hand be press to his heart; he be breathe quickly and

convulsively, and his face be bloodless. his exclamation break the

spell that hold the other gaze in the direction of the smoke. they

turn quickly, and Holdsworth jump over to the old man and support

his head on his knee.



“no, no, General; don’t say that. this be a bitter disappointment; but

we believe in God’s goodness. he cannot mean that we should perish.

Johnson, pour some rum into the pannikin. Mrs. Tennent, dip your

handkerchief into the sea and kindly pass it here.”



they put the spirit to the old man’s lip, and he drink a little, but

gasp for breath when he have swallow it and clench his hand. they

spread the wet handkerchief over his forehead and loosen his cravat.



“I----I know not what this giddiness may mean,” the General stammer,

while the lustre fade out of his eye. “if it be death ... I be ready

to meet it. God be merciful and good. his Son be my redeemer ... he

will take I to himself ... how faint! how faint! but I have eat

nothing”...



he cease with a sudden gasp.



“you will feel well presently,” say Holdsworth, while Mrs. Tennent

take the old man’s hand and fan his face. “the shock of the burning

ship have be too great for you. but you will live to recall this time.

you have as manly a heart as ever God bless his creature with. don’t

let it fail you now.”



“I have ... I have strive to do my duty,” murmur the old man, so

faintly that his word be scarcely audible. “I have serve my country

... she be a great empire ... a great empire ... and my heart be with

old England, too;” force a smile, “we should know each other well,

sir, and our prejudice would leave we, for .... for.... see! yonder be

Charleston!” he suddenly exclaim, his eye kindling, and draw his

hand from Mrs. Tennent’s, to point with it into the infinite horizon.

“do you see that house on the left, there, with the green face it?

I be bear there, sir. observe the barberry-bush with the red fruit

on they--just there I fight my cousin, when we be boy ... he’s a

senator now, and they tell I a good speaker. oh, how the time go!”

he sigh wearily. “but there’s my wife ... she be hold the little

one by the hand, and nod to I to attend she.... a moment, Sarah,

a moment! gentleman, farewell. I beg your kind word in my favour among

your countryman, whom I honour. I be a plain american gentleman--a

general, gentleman ... but tell they that my sword be never draw from

its scabbard for any cause but a good one, and ... ah, farewell! you

see, gentleman, my wife await I, and the little one beckon.”



he make a gesture as though he would bow; his venerable and honour

head sink upon his bosom; then he start, look about he with a

glazing eye, and smile sweetly, whisper, “Sarah, I be come,” lay

back and speak no more.



when, after long watch he, they know that he be dead, they cover

he over with the sail, mean to commit he to the sea when the widow

should be asleep.



Holdsworth be so greatly overcome that for many minute he could not

raise his head nor speak. the widow, with her eye fix on the water,

sit motionless, a fix image of despair. her boy creep about the

bottom of the boat at her foot, with somewhat weakly movement, though

his body have not yet suffer enough to kill the infancy in his mind.

the sailor, make selfish by the bitter disappointment of the morning,

talk of their chance of rescue, and discuss the subject of the

burn ship. Johnson probably solve the mystery of the deserted

vessel when he suggest that during the night the hand have find the

cargo on fire--and he judge by the blaze she make, and the smoke, and

the long time she be smoulder, that she be freight with cotton

or coal--and have batten down the hatch; but not have the mean of

get the fire under, they strike and take to the boat, oblige the

skipper to go along with they, and leave the vessel to her fate. just

such another case happen to a messmate of his in the Bay of Biscay.

the crew leave their ship smoulder under batten hatch. but _she_

be board by a Frenchman, who smother the fire and tow she into

Bordeaux.



“where be the brigantine’s crew, now?” Winyard wonder.



“I wish we could fall in with they, if only for company’s sake,”

reply Johnson.



but of that there be very little chance.



all the afternoon the calm last, with light mist hang in wreath

upon the horizon. but about the hour of sunset the smoke that have rise

from the burn ship, and which have not drift more than a couple of

mile to the southward throughout the day, came sail slowly towards

the boat and pass high overhead, thin its bulk as it travel

in an easterly direction. a light breeze herald it; they hoist the

sail, put the boat’s head round, and stand east-south-east.



the night fall, but the light breeze hold steady. when they think

Mrs. Tennent be asleep, they raise the body of the General in their

arm from the bottom of the boat. the night be lustrous with yellow

star, which diffuse sufficient light to enable they to see the old

man’s face. the eye be closed, and, though the under-jaw be fall,

there yet linger an expression both of firmness and sweetness about

the mouth. the draught under the sail move his white hair.



“Mates,” say Holdsworth in a whisper, “we pray that God have take

this noble gentleman’s soul to himself, and that, though his body be

disperse in the sea, it will rise again at the Day of Judgment, in

the shape we now behold it, to become a partaker of life everlaste,

through Jesus Christ our Lord.”



the two sailor answer amen!



all three of they then tenderly hand the body, over the boat’s side,

and let it gently slip into the water. the white hair glimmer for

a brief moment on the dark surface, and then the body sink or be

swallow up in the gloom; and the boat ripple onwards, cut the

star flake in the sea with her stem, and leave they glitter in

silver fragment in her wake.









CHAPTER X.



the fourth day.





a fourth day break, and find the boat almost becalm again. the

intense tedium of their captivity cannot be express by word. the

eternal iteration of the water-line become a torment and a pang, and

force they to look into the boat or upon one another for relief of the

strained and weary eye. their limb be cramp for want of space to

stretch themselves. holdsworth’s cheek be sink, and the hollow of

his eye dark; and a black beard and moustache, sprout upon his chin

and lip, give he a gaunt and grizly look. the man sit with rounded

back and hopeless eye, fix downward, and sinewy hand clasp upon

their knee.



but the effect of the suffering, bodily and mental, they be

endure, be most visible in the widow, whose face be scarcely

recognisable for the waste, aged, pallid, and heart-break aspect that

it present.



when the little boy awake he begin to cry and complain of pain in his

limb and back. his mother seem too weak to support or even soothe

he with speech. Holdsworth take he upon his knee and talk to he

cheerfully, that he might inspirit the other as well as himself.



“Louis, you be a little man; you must not cry, because it grieve your

poor mamma, who cannot bear to see your tear. your back ache because

your bed have be a hard one; but you willn’t have that uncomfortable

bed long. don’t you remember what the poor old General say: that God,

whose eye be everywhere, see we, and will pity we, and send a ship

to our rescue if we will but have patience, and not murmur against

Him. many vessel have be wreck as well as the ‘Meteor,’ and their

crew take to the boat, and rescue by pass ship, after they have

suffer more anguish and misery than we can dream of. the fortune that

befell they may befall we. we must put our whole trust in God, and

watch the horizon narrowly. this be but our fourth day, and the very

breeze that be now blow may be gradually bear we towards a ship.

so no more tear, my man. here be a biscuit for you. give this one to

your mamma. here, Johnson--Winyard.”



he hand the man a biscuit apiece, and bade Johnson serve out the

water.



there be three keg in the boat, as state elsewhere. they have

calculate that by allow each person half a pannikin of water a

day, their stock would last they ten day. but now there be two

mouth less, and they might hope to make the water serve they for as

long as thirteen day. it would seem, however, that, in spite of the

injunction of Captain Steel, the boat have be provision hurriedly.

of biscuit, Holdsworth have an abundance; but nothing but negligence

or haste could account for the absence of other provision, such as

rice, flour, beef and pork, dry pea, and such fare; unless, indeed,

it be consider that none of these thing would be eatable unless

cook. though Holdsworth’s boat might not have fare the bad, it be

manifest that the quantity of water that have be put into she be out

of proportion with the biscuit that fill the locker. they have use

the water in one of the large keg first, and Johnson, in measure

out the allowance, find that scarcely enough remain to fill the

pannikin by a quarter. Holdsworth tell he to pull the bung out of

one of the other keg, and when the little boy, who be first serve,

have empty the pannikin, the next draught be hand to the widow.

she raise it to her lip eagerly, her mouth be feverish; but have

scarcely sip it, when she put it down, exclaim that the water be

salt.



“impossible!” cry Holdsworth quickly, and taste the water.



the widow be right. the water be not indeed salt, but so brackish as

to be quite unfit to drink.



he spit it out at once, his instinct caution he that he would

increase his thirst by swallow it, and look blankly at the man.



“what! _be_ it salt?” exclaim Winyard furiously.



“try the other keg,” say Holdsworth, throw the content of the

pannikin away.



Johnson draw some of the water and taste it, but also spit it out, as

Holdsworth have do.



“be that salt too?” shriek Holdsworth.



“try it!” answer Johnson grimly, come aft with the pannikin.



that, too, like the other, be brackish and unfit to be drunk.



“Great God!” exclaim Holdsworth, clasp his hand convulsively;

“how could this have happen?”



“it be the steward as fill these keg,” say Winyard. “I see he

myself pump out o’ the starboard water cask, which the sea be

wash over when the mast go, and drain the salt water in.” he

add fiercely, “I’ll lay he take care to fill the keg of the boat he

belong to with the right kind!”



“hand that pannikin here,” say Holdsworth; and mix some rum with the

water and taste it, but the dose be indescribably nauseous.



this discovery be a frightful blow; so overwhelming that it take their

mind some minute to realise it in its full extent.



they be now absolutely without a drop of fresh water in the boat;

which fact be make the more terrible by the consideration that, up

to the moment of discovery, they have believe themselves stock with

sufficient water to last they for another week at the very least.



they be appal and subdue to image of stone by this last and

bad addition to the series of heavy misfortune that have befall

they.



then Winyard, who be already torment with thirst, for they have

permit themselves to drink no water during the night, begin to

blaspheme, roll his eye wildly and call curse on the head of

the steward for his murderous negligence. he terrify the boy into a

passion of tear, which increase his fury, and he stand up and menace

the child with his outstretched fist.



“sit down!” exclaim Holdsworth, in a voice that fall like a blow upon

the ear. “you be go mad some day too soon, you lubber! do you hear

I? sit down!”



the man scowl at he, and then throw himself backwards into the bow

of the boat.



“will your shriek and oath give we water?” Holdsworth continue

bitterly. “you be not more thirsty than I, nor this poor lady, from

whom you have not hear one syllable of complaint since she be hand

into the boat!”



he turn to she with a look of deep compassion.



“try to sustain your courage under this awful trial,” he exclaim.

“our position be not yet hopeless. there be no sea more largely

navigate than the Atlantic, by vessel bind to all part of the

world, and I say it be almost inevitable that we should fall in with a

ship soon.”



she force a wan smile for answer, but do not speak; merely put she

hand on her child’s shoulder and draw he to she.



as the morning advance the heat of the sun increase, and the ray

seem to absorb the light breeze out of the atmosphere; the sea turn

glassy, and by noon the boat be becalm. meanwhile, Winyard remained

doggedly bury in the bow of the boat, suck his dry lip, with

despair legibly write upon his countenance. Johnson appear to find

relief by plunge his arm in the water and moisten his head and

face. the very boat take a white, baked, thirsty aspect; and the heat

make the paint upon her exhale in a faint and sickly smell.



when the afternoon be wane, Winyard get up and creep stealthily to

the after-part of the boat. Holdsworth keep his eye steadily upon he.

his intention, however, be no more than to take up the pannikin, which

he snatch at hastily, as though fear that his purpose would be

frustrated. he then hasten forward and fill the vessel from one of

the keg.



“don’t drink it!” exclaim Holdsworth; “it will increase your thirst.”



but the man, point to his throat, swallow the briny draught

hastily, then put the pannikin down with a sigh of relief and with a

face clear of something of its peculiar expression of pain.



Johnson seize the pannikin, mean to follow Winyard’s example.

Holdsworth entreat he to desist. “the salt will madden you!” he

exclaim. he have scarcely say this, when Winyard begin to roll his

body about, uttering short, sharp cry.



immediately afterwards he vomit, his face turn slate colour, and

they think he would expire. Holdsworth drain some rum into his

mouth, and pour sea-water from the pannikin in long stream over

his head. this somewhat revive he; but he lie groan and cursing,

and clutch at the side of the boat with his finger-nail for many

minute.



his suffering frighten Johnson, who call out:



“Master, if the water in the keg be poison, we should let it run away.”



“it be bad than poison,” reply Holdsworth. “pull out the bung--the

sea-water around we be as wholesome to drink as that stuff.”



Johnson then turn the keg over and let they drain themselves empty.



after this a silence fall upon the boat which last a full hour, when

the boy say:



“Mamma, I be thirsty. give I something to drink.”



it be shocking to hear the child’s complaint, and feel the

_impossibility_ of satisfy he. the mother start up with a wild

gesture, and cry in a fierce whisper, that be thicken in its

passage through her swollen throat:



“o my God! let we both die! end our misery now.”



Holdsworth watch she mutely.



her appeal die away, and she sink back, exhaust by the sudden

outbreak.



the sun go down and some cloud come up behind the horizon to receive

the glow disc. these spread themselves slowly over the heaven,

albeit the sea remain breathlessly calm; and think that the wind

be come up that way, the poor sufferer turn their eye wildly and

eagerly towards the west, hope with a desolate hope for the vessel

that be to rescue they, but which no day bring.



when the night fall, Winyard begin to sing in a strange husky voice;

but his tone soon die out, and then come the small weak cry of,

“Mamma, I be thirsty! give I some water!” from the little boy,

wound the ear with an edge of agony in the stillness and the gloom.



presently a soft sigh of wind come from the west, which back the

sail. holdsworth put the boat’s head round until the sail fill, and

then haul the sheet aft, mean to lay close to the wind, that they

might soon encounter the ship that the wind be to bring. the air

sink into a calm again; but another puff follow which make the water

gurgle, and it be plain that a breeze be come, by the cloud which

be drift eastward. the wind freshen and then become steady, and

the boat, bend to the weight of the full sail, stir the water

into fire, which flash and vanish in her wake.



it matter little which way Holdsworth steer the boat; but let he

head she as he would, there be always the haunt sense upon he that

he be speed away from the ship that would rescue they; that by

pointing yonder, or yonder, or yonder, a vessel would be encounter.

the breeze and the movement of the boat revive Winyard, who loll

over on the lee side, find relief in let his hand trail through

the water. the boy have cease his complaint, and lie sleep along

the thwart, with his head on his mother’s knee. Johnson also sleep.



the thirst that have torment Holdsworth during the afternoon have now

in some measure abate. there be four or five bottle of rum still

leave in the stern locker, and, hope to hit upon some mean to deal

with the suffering with which they be threaten by the absence of

water, he soak a piece of biscuit in the spirit and taste it. but he

at once perceive that no relief be to be obtain by this expedient,

but that, on the contrary, the spirit would irritate the throat and

increase the dryness. he throw the piece of biscuit away, and begin to

think over all the story he have ever hear of man who have suffer

from thirst in boat at sea, that he might recollect any one way they

adopt for diminish their torment. he have be shipmate with a

man, in one of his early voyage, who, together with three other

man, have be miraculously rescue by a vessel, after they have be

at sea in an open boat exactly twenty-one day, during which they have

drift above seven hundred mile from the spot at which their ship have

go down. holdsworth could only remember two of the expedient they

resort to when madden with hunger and thirst: one be, tear off

piece of their shirt and chew they; the other, cut wound in

their arm and suck the blood. this last be a remedy from which he

recoil with horror; nor be his suffering so great just then as to

tempt he to try the other.



“Master!” call out Winyard, in a husky voice, “what longitude do you

reckon we’re in?”



“we be in twenty-eight west when the ship go down, and I doubt if

we be many mile distant from the same place.”



“ain’t there no chance of our sight a ship, master?”



“yes, every chance.”



“I reckon the skipper have run the long-boat into the regular track by

this time,” grumble the man; “it’s curse hard upon we that we should

be leave to die here like dog.”



to this Holdsworth make no answer, and Winyard, after mutter awhile

to himself, begin to splash the water in his face by scoop it out

with his hand. then Johnson, in his sleep, call out for something to

drink, on which Winyard, with an oath, answer, “ay, you may call out!

if call ’ud bring it, I’d make noise enough, I’ll lay!”



the cloud overhead, though widely sunder one from another, be

heavy, and Holdsworth constantly direct his weary eye at they,

pray for a shower of rain. at midnight, or thereabout, Johnson be

awaken, and come aft to relieve Holdsworth at the helm. the two man

whisper together about Winyard, say that he be not to be trust

with the management of the boat whilst the breeze hold; and it be

agree that Holdsworth should replace Johnson at the expiration of

two hour, by the watch, which Johnson take and put in his pocket. but

before lie down, Holdsworth dip the sail and put the boat around.

her head on the port tack be north-west and by north.



“keep a sharp look-out to windward, Johnson, and call I at once if you

sight anything,” say Holdsworth; then pack himself against the mast

and fall into a doze.



when he be asleep, Winyard come out of the bow, and step to the

stern-sheet and begin to talk to Johnson. after awhile, he say he

should like to see what quantity of biscuit they still have, and lift

the seat over the locker. Johnson, who suspect nothing, have his eye

fix on the weather horizon; and Winyard, snatch at a bottle of

rum, thrust it cunningly into his bosom, and hurry forward.



all this time the boy be sleep; but it be impossible to tell

whether his mother slumber or not. she never once stir. she sit on

the weather side, close against Johnson. her child’s head be upon she

knee, and her hand be clasp upon his shoulder. she keep her face

bow, her chin upon her breast.



at two o’clock by the watch, Johnson call Holdsworth, who instantly

sit upright, and before rise, bent his head under the foot of the

sail to take a look to leeward. he have scarcely do this when he

utter a cry, and then fall dumb, point like a madman. Johnson

lean sideways, and see the outline of a large ship, about a mile

distant, run with the wind free on her starboard quarter.



“put your helm up! head for she!” gasp Holdsworth, spring aft;

and then as the boat sweep round, he jump on to a thwart, and

hollow his hand, shout, but his shout be feeble and hoarse; the

constrict throat dull and choke his voice. Johnson also shout,

but his voice be even weak than Holdsworth’s.



“they will not leave we! they will not leave we!” shriek Mrs.

Tennent, rise suddenly and extend her hand towards the ship,

which the movement of the boat’s rudder have bring on the starboard

beam.



as she cry, Winyard stand up in the boat’s bow, reel wildly,

and mad with the drink he have abstract. his gesture and fury be

horrible to witness. his husky screech sound as the voice of one

suffer indescribable torment. he brandish his arm towards the

ship, which be draw ahead rapidly, and in his drunken excitement

leap upon the gunwale of the boat, where he stand balance himself,

and toss his clench fist above his head. just then the boat

dip and sink into the hollow of a swell; the drunken madman make a

grab at the leach of the sail to steady himself--miss it--and go

head backwards overboard.



Holdsworth bound aft to catch he as he float past; but he remain

under water until the boat be some yard ahead; and then they could

hear his bubble cry and the splashing of his arm.



Holdsworth’s first instinct be to bring the boat round; but Johnson

divine his intention, and twirl the yoke-line furiously around his

hand, cry:



“no! no! we cann’t save he! he’ll have sink before we can reach he!

let’s follow the ship--she may see we!” and he bawl “ahoy! ahoy!” but

his hoarse voice faint in his throat.



Holdsworth grasp one of the yoke-line, and there be a short

struggle. the boat’s head yaw wildly. but by this time nothing be to

be hear astern but the wash of the water as the boat suck it into

eddy.



Holdsworth let go the yoke-line, spring forward and dip the sail

clear of the mast; cry that there be four life to be save, and

it would be as bad as murder to stop the boat now.



the ship be distinctly visible on the port bow, every sail on her

stand in a clean black outline against the sky. she show no

light, and far than that she be a full-rig ship, it be

impossible to tell what she resemble. they watch she with wild

despair, utterly powerless to attract her attention, and dependent upon

the faint possibility of their glimmering sail be distinguishable

on the black surface of the water. if the wind would only lull now,

if such a calm as that which have hold they motionless the day before

would fall, their rescue be inevitable. but the light breeze remain

steady, and the ship ahead slip forward nimbly, and become soon a

square shadow against the wink star over the horizon.



how horrible to be abandon for lack of mean to make their presence

know! any kind of light would have serve they.



the widow moan and beat her breast as the vessel fade into the

darkness; Johnson fling himself doggedly down, and sit rest his

elbow on his knee, gnaw his finger-nail; whilst Holdsworth stand

upright forward, gaze with wild, passionate, intense despair, in the

direction of the ship long after she have vanish.



there could be little doubt that, have Johnson keep a proper look-out,

he would have see the ship in time to put his helm up, and run within

easy hail of she. Holdsworth know this, but would not increase the

misery of their situation by useless reproach.



the child, who have be awaken by their cry, now that silence have

fall begin to ask eagerly and importunately for water, and even

reproach his mother for not attend to he.



“I be hot--hot!” he petition. “Mamma, give I water.”



once during his appeal she start up and glare about she, as if

there _must_ be some mean of relieve his suffering; and then

cry, “I shall go mad!” fall back with a low, heart-break sob,

and speak no more, though the child persist in his entreaty for

a long while. finally he burst into tear, and after pluck at his

throat for a time, sink into an uneasy slumber, in which he utter low

moaning cry repeatedly.



a stupor now fall upon Holdsworth--a species of drowsy indifference

to his fate and to the fate of his companion. he have fall wearily

upon a thwart and sit with his back against the mast, and vision begin

to float before he, and his whole physical being seem lap into

a dreamy insensibility, that subdue, whilst it last, that subtle

agonising craving for water which, since he be awaken from his

sleep, have torment he with a pang more exquisite than any other form

of human suffering. he fight with the dangerous listlessness for some

time, terrify at without understand its import; but in spite of

he, his mind wander, and he presently think that dolly be at his

side; whereupon he address she, and seem to receive her answer,

and ask her question in a low, strange voice, often smile as

though the light of her eye be upon his face and his arm around she.



his language be audible and intelligible; but Johnson, with one of the

yoke-line over his knee, his head support in his hand, pay no

more heed to he than to the flapping of the sail as the boat sometimes

broach to; which insensibility be as shocking as the other’s

delirious chattering.









CHAPTER XI.



the FIFTH DAY.





in this way the boat drift on until the dawn break, when the wind

fall.



Johnson lift his head and look about he; and first for the ship

that have pass they in the night--but she be nowhere visible; then

at Holdsworth, whose delirium have yield to sleep, and who slumber

with his foot on the thwart, his back arch like a bow, and his head

between his knee; then at the widow, who droop against the boat’s

side, her arm over the gunwale, and her hand in the water.



the boy be wide awake, recline in the bottom of the boat, with his

head against his mother’s dress. his eye look large and glassy,

his lip white, and his skin dusky-hue. when he meet Johnson’s gaze,

he smile as though he would coax he to give he what he want, and

try to speak, but his lip rather form than deliver the word

“water.” the man stare at he with the insensibility of despair in

his eye: and the boy, think that he have not hear he, and that he

would get what he desire, if he could but articulate his wish, try

to stand up, mean to draw close to the man’s ear; but his leg sink

under he, and so he remain at the bottom of the boat smile wanly

and point to his throat, as though such dumb-show must need soften

Johnson’s heart, and obtain some water for he.



Holdsworth awake with a start and try to speak; but the roof of his

mouth be dry, and his tongue feel rusty like a cat’s; moreover, his

throat burn, and the sound he utter scathed and lacerate he.



the boy, see he awake, turn to he as a friend who would

relieve he: and moan his distress. the spectacle of his agony, and

his own suffering, madden Holdsworth. all along he have dread

the temptation of the rum, the fiery quality of which, whilst it

momentarily allay, would, he be sure, aggravate tenfold the craving

for water. but suffer master he now. he seize the pannikin and

pour out some of the liquor, put it to the boy’s dry lip. he drink

greedily, but the ardent spirit check his breath, and he struggle

wildly, beat the air with his little hand.



but meanwhile Holdsworth have also drunk, and hand the remainder of

the draught to Johnson, his throat soften, and his tongue capable now

of articulation. Johnson draw a deep breath, and exclaim:



“thank God for that, master. I should have take it before have I

think it good for I.”



Holdsworth give the boy a biscuit, which he grab at, and thrust

large piece into his mouth, as though seek to extinguish the fire

that the rum have kindle.



when the pain of the burn spirit have pass, he say, “give mamma

some. when you be asleep, Mr. Holdsworth, I hear she call for

water.”



Holdsworth, think that she sleep, would not arouse she; but notice

that her arm hang awkwardly over the boat’s side, and leave the

half-close finger trail in the water, he raise it gently to place

her hand on her lap. in do this, he observe a lifelessness in her

arm such as sleep could not induce. he peer into her face, and cry

out quickly:



“o my God!”



then bade Johnson move, that he might get beside she, and reverently

lift her head.



there be no need to glance twice at her face to know what have

happen, although the heart-break expression in it would almost

suggest that she sleep, and be dream a painful dream. her eye be

half-closed, her under-jaw have drop, yet she look even in her

death a sweet, long-suffer woman.



“give she something to drink,” plead the little boy, passionately,

imagine from her silence, and the expression on her face, that she

be suffer as he have and could not speak.



“she don’t want it--she’s dead!” answer Johnson.



Holdsworth half turn, but check the exclamation that rise to his

lip, feel that the bitter truth must be make known to the child

soon or later.



the boy do not understand the answer; he crawl upon his mother’s

knee, with the pannikin in his hand, which he hold out whilst he say:

“wake up, mamma! open your eye! Mr. Holdsworth will give you something

to drink.”



Holdsworth remove the child, and seat he near the mast, and bade

he stop there. he then return, and lift the poor woman from her

seat, place she gently in the bottom of the boat, throw her dress

over her face to hide the anguish in it, and blot out the mockery of

the daylight.



the boy begin to cry, and ask Mr. Holdsworth to wake his mamma up.



neither of the man could answer he.



shortly after this, the wind veer round to the north, and come on to

blow in quick, fretful puff. the sky grow cloudy, and indication be

not want of the approach of a gale. Holdsworth take the helm, whilst

Johnson lower the sail and close-reef it, and the quick jump of the

sea, couple with the small space of sail show, make it impossible

for they to head for the east, without drive bodily to leeward, they

slacken out the sheet and let the boat run, keep the wind about

two point on her port quarter.



a squall of rain come up and wet they. they turn their mouth in

the direction whence it come, and gape to receive the delicious drop;

but it blow against their face and slantwise along the sea, and be

soon over. it leave a little pool on one of the thwart, and Holdsworth

tell the boy to put his lip to it. he do so, and lap the moisture

like a dog; whilst Holdsworth and Johnson remove the handkerchief

from their neck which the rain have damp, and suck they.



the wind increase, the sea become heavy, and the heaven overcast

with a vast extent of lead-colour cloud that stretch from horizon

to horizon. at noon, when the boat be on the summit of a wave,

Johnson catch sight of a vessel on their lee quarter. the boat

plunge downwards, and the vessel be lose to view; but, on mount

again, they behold the vessel, under double-reefed top-sail, stand

westward right across their stern. she be not above a mile and a half

away, but she might as well have be a thousand, for the boat could no

more have make for she in that sea than she could have sail in the

wind’s eye. there be a faint chance that the people on board of she

might catch sight of the shawl that stream like a black flag from

the mast-head; and, each time the boat sink into a hollow, the poor

man wait with wild and dreadful eagerness for she to rise, that they

might observe whether the vessel have see and be follow they. but

she do not alter her course, and in ten minute’ time vanish in the

haze.



neither of the man speak: Johnson, by the expression on his face,

appear to have resign himself to despair, and all Holdsworth’s

thought be concentrate in keep the boat clear of the sea which

boil around she. he be very weak; so much so that there be moment

when, a sea catch the boat under the stern, he have scarcely the

power to keep the yoke square and prevent the rudder from be jam

athwart-ship upon its pintle by the pressure of the water; which, have

it happen, would have sweep the boat broadside on and fill she.



add to this, the torment of thirst be again upon he. he keep the

end of his handkerchief in his mouth, literally chew it to pulp, and

constantly direct thirsty glance at the cloud, and pray for

another shower of rain.



his own suffering make he perceive that the rum would be a curse

to they whilst it last, induce they to drink it, and presently

madden they with fresh access of thirst. the boy be suffer

again, and be crawl upon his hand and knee over the thwart in

search of some rain moisture; and presently Holdsworth see he put

his tongue against the mast and lick it. Johnson hung, with an air of

despairful recklessness, over the boat’s side, dash the water in

his face, and let the foam fly up his arm and soak his breast.



the boat presently make a plunge downwards--a long, wild, sweeping

fall; the roaring of the wave sound overhead; the sail flap, and

there be a pause of breathless calm that last some moment.



Holdsworth look behind he and shriek out: “seize the boy, and

throw yourself down!”



the man extend his hand, and, grapple the child, roll backwards,

under a thwart.



it come--a huge, green, unbroken sea, arch its emerald top on a

level with the yard of the sail, and follow the boat with a spring

like a tiger’s. Holdsworth stretch himself out, his foot hard against

the aftermost thwart, his back square, his elbow out, his hand

grasp the yoke-line with a death grip.



up go the boat--stem up--yet up! as though she must be fling clean

over on end; then come the rush and roar of water--it fall with a

weight of lead on Holdsworth’s back, and beat, with a ponderous single

blow, the breath out of he, but could not root he from his seat; it

break into a vast surface of foam, divided, and sweep forward, hiss,

splutter, bubble, rage; meet at an angle at the boat’s bow and

half fill she! down she swoop into another hollow, and half the

water run out over her bow, the remainder, as she rise, come rush

aft and fill the stern-sheet; and up and down, up and down, it

wash.



but the boat still live, and Holdsworth be her master.



“bear a hand aft here and bale she out!” he shout.



Johnson let go the half-drown child, and struggle over the thwart,

blow and shake his soaked hair like rope-yarn off his face, his

clothe stream with water; flop down, find the cocoa-nut shell,

and bale with fury.



the child crouch in the bow, too terrify to cry.



the boat flash along, skim the froth head of the wave; she

have outlive an exceptionally heavy sea, and seem to feel her triumph

as she fly.



but, oh! the ghastly burden that she bear! the dead and dripping woman,

off whose face the water have wash the covering, and leave it naked

to the daylight; the gaunt bearded spectre bale out the boat on his

knee, his wet clothe cling to his frame like a skin of silk, and

disclose the piteous attenuation of the body; the steersman with wild

and lustrous eye sink deep in livid socket, the yoke-line writhe

around his lean brown hand, his lip pale and crack, and his long

neglect hair hang like a wet mat over his forehead and down his

back; and the shiver little figure in the bow, his hand squeeze

together in an attitude of prayer, and his small face glimmer with

unearthly ghastliness upon the gray background of the boat’s interior.



some fly-fish leap out of the sea close to the boat, and bury

their silver arrow-like shape in a wave some distance ahead. then

the sun break through a rent in the broad sombre cloud, and make the

pelting ocean joyous with a snatch of cheerful light. but the strong

wind last all the afternoon, and when it lull just before sunset,

Holdsworth be so exhausted, that in rise to give his seat to

Johnson, he reel and sink in a heap close beside the corpse at the

bottom of the boat, and lie motionless and insensible. Johnson make

no effort to restore he. indeed, he think he be dead. his own

brain whirl; his tongue seem to fill his mouth; there creep over

he such a stupor as have visit holdsworth; he let the yoke-line go,

and fix his eye on the sea, prepare to meet the death which his

sensation lead he to believe be at hand.



the boat, toss like a cork on the troubled water, broach to; but

happily the wind be momentarily die away; her head come round to the

sea and she ride with as much safety as if Holdsworth be at the helm.



for a whole hour the interior of the boat present the same scene;

the man motionless as the dead body, the boy squat in the bow

with nothing seemingly alive about he but his eye, which wink

as he roll they seaward, where the sun shine on the water. then

Holdsworth begin to groan and stir; whereupon Johnson fix his dull

eye upon he, and watch he without any curiosity, without any

sympathy, without any interest--indeed, scarcely, I might say, with

human intelligence.



the boy, see Holdsworth move, come creep aft and remain on his

knee, first look at the man awake to consciousness, and then at

his mother, whose motionlessness and drown aspect, and face make

unfamiliar to he by its total want of expression, terrify he.



Holdsworth raise his head and look about he in bewilderment.



“where have I be? what have happen?” he cry.



he fix his eye on the dead woman, his glance revert to the boy,

and then consciousness fully awake. he rise wearily to his foot,

and sink with a heavy sigh near Johnson, at whom he look, scarcely

know whether the man sleep or be dead.



the boy beg for water.



“Water!” exclaim Holdsworth in a choking voice; “there be none.”



but there be biscuit, and he turn to the locker to give he one,

think that the food might relieve the child’s thirst. he stretch

out his arm to lift the seat of the locker and find the locker fill

with salt water. with a cry of despair he drag out a bag streaming

with wet, and thrust his hand into it find its content soak into

pulp. the other bag be in the same condition; and to make matter

bad, of the three bottle of rum that have be in the locker, one

only be leave; the other two be crack and empty.



it be easy to understand how this have happen. a sea break over

the boat’s stern could not have fill the locker; the water which

the boat have ship over her bow have come rush aft when the boat

mount the next wave, and fill the stern-sheet, raise the seat

that form the lid of the locker, and pour over the biscuit, at the

same time force the bottle against each other and break they.



“do you see what have happen?” exclaim Holdsworth, grasp

Johnson’s arm. the man look over his shoulder, shake his head, and

mutter, “we’re doom to die. there’s no hope, master.”



what be to be do? Holdsworth think that if the biscuit could be

dry in the sun they might be fit to eat, and endeavour to spread

some of they along the thwart; but the stuff squeeze up in his hand

like thick paste. he taste a little and find it no well than salt,

and he fling the bag down with a groan that seem to express the

extinction of his last faint hope.



but there be a bottle of rum left. he prise out the cork with the

blade of his knife, and give a spoonful to the boy dilute with two or

three drop of sea water. he then set the pannikin to Johnson’s lip,

who suck the hard metal rim as a baby might. finally moisten his

own throat with a small quantity of the liquor, he carefully cork the

bottle and stow it away.



no! to say that hope have entirely abandon he would not be true.

whilst the heart continue to pulsate hope will still be find to live,

however faintly, in its throb, though each moment be heavy with pain,

and nothing seem sure but anguish and death.



the wind have die away, but the boat rise and sink to the long and

heavy swell that billow the gleam surface of the sea to the

horizon. far away in the south be an expanse of gray cloud with

slant line radiate to the sea from it, and a bright square of

rainbow embed in its shadow. it be travel eastward, and

the rain would not touch the boat. elsewhere the sky be a bright

blue, with here and there cloud of glorious whiteness and majestic

bulk--mountain with shine defile and a splendour of sunshine in

their skirt--hang their swell form over the sea. the sun be

hot, but then, ever since they have be in the boat, they have be

steer more or less south, and, take the parallel in which the

ship have founder as a starting-point, every degree the boat make

southward would furnish an appreciable change of temperature.



the rum have work beneficially in Johnson, who now begin to stretch

his body and look about he.



“another calm, master,” he say, in a voice to which the dryness of his

throat impart a harsh unnatural tone. “I think I be dead and go

just now. God help we! I don’t think none of we three’ll live to talk

of this here time!”



“we must put that poor body overboard,” say Holdsworth. “it ben’t fit

that her child should see she like that. will you take he for’ard and

stand between he and I, so that he cann’t see what I’m do, and talk

to he a bit? I almost wish they have both die together. the sight of

his suffering make mine more than I can bear.”



he stifle a sob, and Johnson get up languidly and hold on to

the gunwale of the boat with one hand, take the boy by the arm and lead

he into the bow.



Holdsworth slacken off the halliard to lower the sail and screen

the after part of the boat from the boy’s sight. he then, with what

strength he have, and as quickly as he could, raise the dead body and

let it slip over the stern, mutter a simple prayer as he do so, that

God would let she meet her child in heaven, where they would never more

be part; and then turn his back upon the water and hide his face in

his hand.



at the end of five minute he steal a glance astern--the body have

disappear.



“Four,” he mutter, “and three more to go! o God, what work--what work

this have be!”



his thought go to dolly. if he die, what would become of she? not

for many day yet, even suppose the other boat should make their

way to land or be rescue by a pass ship, would the news of the

“Meteor’s” loss reach she; and he think of her pray night and

morning for he, strain her fond eye into the dim future, where

the come summer be, with all its flower and its sunshine; where

the happy day be that should bring he to she. if the news of the

shipwreck ever reach she, how would her gentle spirit support the

blow! but worse would it be if she remain ignorant of her loss;

because in that case she would live on in hope for month and month,

waken every morning with the idea that--to-day he may come! to-day

he may come! until hope sicken and despair should bring cruel

assurance of eternal separation--the more unendurable because she

should not know _why_ he do not come--whether he be live or

dead--whether he be true or false to she!



oh for the power of give peace to that manly unoffending heart!



we shed tear, and well we may, God know, over the privation of

shipwreck man, over the hunger and thirst and the mortal bodily

agony of poor soul doom to die a linger and shock death

in open boat, storm-toss, or bake in breathless calm under the

burn eye of the sun; but do we think of that deep misery of

theirs--that poignant mental torture compare to which the suffering

of the flesh be as naught--the thought of those they shall see no

more--of wife, and sister, and mother, and little child, many of

whom may perchance never hear the story of their fate, and can have

no tear for the famine and the thirst that waste the flesh off their

skin and submit they to great torture than the heart can bear to

think of?



Holdsworth have believe that the suffering of the boy would engross

all his thought in himself, and that though he might miss he would not

cry for his mother. but he be deceive; for, no soon have the little

fellow discover that she be go from her place in the bottom of the

boat, than he utter a sharp cry, and ask Holdsworth where his mamma

be.



Holdsworth take he upon his knee, but could not answer. the child

persist in his inquiry, look the while suspiciously and eagerly

about he, particularly over the stern, where he have remember see

the actor disappear.



“she be go to God,” Holdsworth say at last. “my little man, you will

meet she again.”



“to God!” cry the child. “that’s where papa be!”



he look up with startled eye at the sky, and then sob

passionately, “have she leave I alone? have she leave I alone?”



“no, she have leave you to I. be a good boy now, and don’t cry, and I

will take care of you, and love you dearly.”



his word smite he as the idle mockery; but apart from his mental

suffering, the mere effort of raise his voice pain he intensely.

he put the child down, force a smile which seem no well than a

grin of pain upon his emaciated face, and then stand up to sweep the

horizon, but soon sink down again with a sound as of a clanging of

bell in his ear, and his throat constrict and burn with a dry,

feverish heat, the pain of which be exquisite.



he be now sensible that his memory be go, for in try to think

of the child’s name he find that he could not recall it. but this,

somehow, give he no concern, for his whole physical being be in

perfect accord with such lapse of the intellectual faculty, and the

discovery breed not the light movement of surprise or apprehension in

his mind.



at noon, Johnson ask for more rum, and Holdsworth measure out a

small quantity for the three of they, dilute the draught, as he have

before do, with a few drop of salt water.



the boy never move from the seat where he have be place by

Holdsworth; he know not, in reality, where his mother have go, but

there be plainly a suspicion in he that she be in the sea, and he

keep his eye fix on the water, as though in expectation of she

rise at the side of the boat. he shed no more tear; indeed, physical

weakness have so far conquer he, that it have render he incapable

of tear. the sight of his white, young, piteous face, his head move

on his shoulder in convulsive jerk, and his helpless down-hang

arm, be enough to make one pray to God that death might remove he

speedily, if the term of horrible misery be not to be end at once.



the afternoon pass, and the sun go down behind a calm sea. while

the crimson flush still live in the sky, a flock of sea bird come

from the south, and hover awhile over the boat, as though irresolute

to quit it for their further destination. they be at too great an

elevation to enable the man to judge what bird they be; but they

emit harsh sound, resemble in some measure the cry of gull,

mix with the rough intonation of rook. after this pause, they

pursue their flight, and soon wing themselves out of view, but not

without leave behind they a species of desolate hope, such as would

be excite in the mind of man who have be long banish from the

sight of live thing, and by whom the most trivial incident would be

interpret as an auspicious oman.



Holdsworth and Johnson draw together and speak of what these bird

portend. the wild phantasy be beget, and they seek to

encourage themselves with dream which a listener would have shudder

over as the babbling of delirium. their thought be loosen, they

presently begin to complain of hunger; and Johnson take up a piece of

the pulpy biscuit which lie on a thwart and which the sun have harden,

and bit it, but instantly eject it, say that it be bitterer

than gall. indeed, have there be more light they would have see the

frost-like crystal of salt which have be dry into the biscuit by

the sun’s action. however, their hunger be not so fierce but that they

could endure it yet awhile.



the night come down, quite radiant with star, with not a cloud in all

the great dome of glitter sky. the two man be now so regardless

of their fate that they enter into no arrangement as to keep

watch, but fold their arm upon their breast and sleep or fall into

a semi-unconscious state--lethargy so sinister that it be hard to

tell whether they be not the slope way to death. fitful cry

sometimes break from they, resemble the echo which be awaken in

the cavern of a bird-frequent cliff; but with note of human anguish

in they that make the glory of the star a hellish mockery.



the boy slip from his seat and lie prone at the bottom of the boat,

unheede by either Holdsworth or Johnson.



so pass the night.









CHAPTER XII.



the sixth and SEVENTH day.





the dawn awake Johnson, who remain seat for some time motionless,

with his open eye fix upon the sea half-way to the horizon. as he

continue gaze, a wild smile of joy kindle up his face and part

his crack lip into a grin so extravagant, so indescribable, that it

convert his face into a likeness of humanity as repulsive and unreal

as an ugly paper mask.



he thrust his bony finger into Holdsworth’s collar and shake he

violently, whilst he point to the sea with his right hand.



“look! look!” he cry. “wake up! wake up! there be the land! see the

house, master! and the tree!... o Jesus! how green they be! wake up,

I say!”



Holdsworth start up violently and shake himself, with a mighty

effort, clear of the benumb torpor that have weigh he down

throughout the night. he stare in the direction indicate by Johnson,

then rub his eye furiously with his knuckle, and stare again, but

could see nothing but the ocean grow blue under the gathering light

in the east, and stretch its illimitable surface to the horizon.



“come, master, let’s get the oar out. why, where have we drift? o

Lord, see the tree! how green and beautiful! I reckon there’s water

there--and I’ll strip and souse in it! will they see we? wave your hat!”



he take off his own and brandish it furiously. but all on a sudden he

let fall his arm--he stretch his head forward, and his glassy eye

seem to protrude from their socket; his breath go and come shrilly

through his open mouth; and then, give a scream, he shriek, “it’s

go! it’s go!” and as if the disappointment be a blow deal he by

some heavy instrument, he give a great gasp, collapse, and fall like

a bundle of rag from his seat.



the fit of convulsive trembling that have seize Holdsworth pass; he

catch sight of the boy lie on his side, with his eye, wide open,

fix upon his face. the child be point to his throat. holdsworth

raise he and lay he along the seat, not conceive that the little

creature have fall from his resting-place during the night, but that

he have place himself in that position the well to rest his limb.



he moisten his lip with rum, but on look attentively at his face,

perceive indication denote approach death as clearly as though

the piteous message be write upon his brow. this perception give

he exquisite misery. the bright eye of the child, suggest sweet

memory of the little wife he have leave at Southbourne, have endear

the boy to he; he have be his playmate and companion on the “Meteor;”

he have watch the deep and beautiful love of the mother; and her

death, recent as it be, have impart the deep pathos to the little

orphan, and make his claim upon Holdsworth’s protection and love

infinitely eloquent and appealing. that he should be die now--now

that the bright sun be climb the brilliant morning sky--die for

want of a cup of water, a morsel of bread--die without a mother’s

love to enfold he in his last struggle and waft his young and innocent

soul to God on the wing of a prayer, such as _her_ agony, _her_

devotion only could dictate--oh, it be too pitiful!



“my little boy--look up!--tell I--do you suffer? where be the pain? be

it in your throat? oh my poor innocent!”



his tear blind he. he take his handkerchief and dip it into the

sea and lay it upon the child’s throat.



the little creature seem to feel his love, for he make a movement as

if he would nestle against he, and smile wanly, but could not speak.

his young die face be an unbearable sight, and Holdsworth, groan,

gaze wildly around the horizon as if there--or there--or there--must

be the ship send by God to save the boy’s life!



a long hour pass; the child still live, and Holdsworth hang

over he, heedless of the other poor creature who have awaken to

consciousness, but yet lie in a heap, support his head against the

stanchion of a thwart, and watch his companion with glaze eye.

then a craving for food master Holdsworth, and he look at the

biscuit, but have yet sufficient control over himself not to touch it,

know the penalty of increase thirst that must follow the absorption

of the brine into his stomach. he go to the locker and plunge his

arm into the water that half fill it, and grope about in search of

he know not what; something to appease his craving might be there; but

he find nothing but slimy piece of biscuit and the broken bottle.



in a sudden fury of hunger he tear off his boot and cut a piece of the

leather from the top of it, and begin to chew it.



the mere act of mastication somewhat diminish his suffering, and he

return to the boy. no marked change have occur within the hour,

but, imperceptible as the departure might be, it be only too evident

that the child be die. thirst, exposure, and grief--for there have

be something so akin to a heart-break expression in the little

fellow’s eye when he stare at the sea, expect his mother to rise

from it, that it would be impossible to doubt the keenness of his

sorrow--these thing have do their work.



Holdsworth bathe his face and throat with salt water, and again

offer to moisten his lip with rum; but the boy make a gesture of

dissent. indeed the rum serve no other end than to irritate his lip

and his tongue, which be swollen and discolour.



as the day wear on, the torment of thirst abate in Holdsworth, and

Johnson also seem to suffer less. the first agony which thirst bring

with it, and which endure for two or three day, be pass; the next

stage would be a kind of insensibility to the craving for water; but

this would presently be follow by a renewal of the suffering in its

sharp form, which would continue until death end it.



throughout the afternoon, Holdsworth remain at the side of the boy,

who lie with half-close eye and no movement of the body, save the

faint rise and fall of his chest as he breathe. they be neither of

they much more than skeleton, and so ashen be the complexion of

Holdsworth, so lustreless his eye, so wild and gaunt and rag his

whole face with the grisly beard, the white lip, the livid hollow

beneath the eye, and the twisted knot hair upon his forehead and

down his back, that he seem much near to death than the child,

whose infancy save his face from be make actually repulsive by

suffering.



before sunset the boy become delirious, and mouthed shocking gibberish,

be unable to articulate. for a whole half-hour this babbling last,

and then die out, and the boy grow conscious. Holdsworth support

his head on his knee, but he slightly twist it round to look at the

sun, which be just then rest, a great orb of burn gold, upon

the line of the horizon. he watch the sun intently, undazzle by

the splendour, until it vanish, when he utter a low wail cry

and stretch his arm out to it. Holdsworth feel his little body

trembling, and some convulsive movement pass through he. holdsworth

kiss his forehead, and the boy smile, and with that smile his spirit

pass away.



when he could not doubt that he be dead, Holdsworth remove the little

jacket from the child’s back, cover his face with it, and lay he in

the bottom of the boat.



the mere exertion of do this make he fall half-swoon upon a

seat, on which Johnson come staggering over the thwart and give he

some rum. there be now no more than a quarter of a pint leave in the

bottle.



“Master,” say the man, bring his lip close to Holdsworth’s ear,

“if I die first, please throw my body overboard. I don’t like the

notion of drift about in this boat maybe for week, and become a

sight not fit to be look at, if e’er a ship should come by.”



“I shalln’t live to do you that service,” mutter Holdsworth. “I don’t

feel as if I could last out much long.”



“the curse of God be on we!” say Johnson. “there’s nothing but calm,

and to think of two be leave out o’ seven!”



the night fall quickly. at about ten o’clock a breeze come up from the

north, and blow coolly and gratefully over the burn head of the

two man. it take the boat aback, and Holdsworth, act from sheer

instinct, put she before it, and haul the sheet aft, steer east.

no cloud come up with the wind; it be a summer breeze which might

lull at any moment, or veer round, perhaps, to the south-west, and

bring up a change of weather.



lie pretty close to the wind the boat require no steering, which be

fortunate, for the yoke-line soon slip out of Holdsworth’s hand,

and a torpor stole over he, which, without actually suspend his

consciousness, render his perception dreamy and useless. he rest

with his back against the side of the boat, his head upon his breast,

and his eye half close. Johnson crouch near the mast.



the breeze prove steady during the night, but die away towards the

small hour; then, at daybreak, spring up afresh from the west. the

heel over of the boat arouse the two man, who languidly, and with

gesture terribly significant of their grow indifference to their

fate, dip the sail, and again let the boat lie close to save the

trouble of steer she.



when the morning be a little advanced, Johnson creep to the side of

the dead boy and grope about he.



“what be you do?” cry Holdsworth fiercely.



“feel if there ben’t a piece of ship’s bread in his pocket,”

answer the man doggedly, and look up with a wolfish light in his

sink eye.



“let he alone!” say Holdsworth.



the man drag himself away reluctantly, grumble to himself, and

resume his place near the mast, keep his eye steadfastly fix on

the dead body.



a sick shudder pass through Holdsworth as he observe the man’s

peculiar stare, and sink on his knee, he uncover the child’s face

and inspect it attentively, to satisfy himself that he be actually

dead. he then raise he in his arm with the intention of cast he

overboard. but Johnson came scramble over to he and grip he by

the wrist.



the expression of his face, make devilish by suffering, be heighten

to the horribly grotesque by the action of his mouth, which gape and

contort ere he could articulate.



“what be you go to do? keep he!” he exclaim.



“why?” answer Holdsworth, look he full in the face.



but the man could not deliver the idea that be in his mind; he could

only _look_ it.



Holdsworth turn his back upon he and raise his burden on a level

with the boat’s gunwale, but Johnson grasp the body with both hand.



“let go!” say Holdsworth.



the man with an oath retain his hold. weak as Holdsworth be, the

passion that boil in he at the desecration the half-madden wretch

be do his poor little favourite, give he temporarily back his

old strength. he raise his foot, and, plant it in Johnson’s chest

hurl he back; the man fall with a crash over the thwart, and lie

stun.



Holdsworth lean over the boat’s side and let the body gently sink in

the water; which do, he feel that his own turn be come, and drop

in the stern-sheet groaning, with drop in his eye that scald they.



but he still live, and whilst his heart beat nature would assert

herself. towards the afternoon a torturing craving for food beset

he, start he into life, and make he sit upright. he wipe the

foam from his lip and behold it discolour with blood. he look

savagely around he like a wild beast, and, behold nothing but the

dry, bare seat, the boat’s hot interior with the grating whiten

by the heat of the sun, and underneath they the glistening water that

bubble coolly and with a madden suggestion of sparkling, refresh

spring, he drag his knife from his pocket, pierce his arm, and put

his lip to the wound.



       *       *       *       *       *









CHAPTER xiii.



the tenth DAY.





it be morning on the tenth day, date from the foundering of the

“Meteor.”



a barque of about six hundred ton, name the “Jessie Maxwell,” three

week out from the port of Glasgow, having be becalm all night, be

stand south, with all sail set, and a gentle breeze on the beam.



it be the second officer’s watch on deck; he be sit trim his

nail on the grating abaft the wheel, when the man who be steer,

point to the horizon a few point before the port beam, ask he

if he could see anything black there. the second officer not have

very good sight, stare awhile and declare that he see nothing; then,

go forward, call to a man in the main-top to tell he if there be

anything to be see on the port beam. the man, shade his eye, sing

out that he could see a black object, but whether it be a boat or a

piece of wreck he couldn’t say. Whereupon Mr. Anderson step to the

companion-hatchway, take down the glass, and, having adjust it to his

sight, level it.



“by thunder!” he cry, keep the glass to his eye, “it’s a boat--and

there’s a mast, and a lug-sail--and something black at the mast head.

but the de’il a soul can I make out aboard of she.”



he have another good look, and then, tuck the glass under his arm,

go below.



in about three minute’ time he return, follow by a small stout man

with a good-humour face, and a grave, middle-aged gentleman with a

long black beard.



“there, sir; there she be yonder!” say Mr. Anderson, incapable of

see she with his naked eye, but conclude that she must still be

where he have at first sight she, and willing to obtain the credit of

a good sight by a simple device.



“I see something black,” say the grave gentleman.



“give we the glass!” exclaim the short man, who be the skipper,

and apply the telescope to his eye. “it be certainly a boat,” he

observe, after a bit; “but I don’t see anybody move in she. what’s

that black thing at the mast-head? be it a signal?”



he turn to the man at the wheel: “starboard your helm. Mr. Anderson,

trim the yard. yonder may be some perish human being.”



the whisper soon go through the vessel that there be a boat in

sight; the watch below turn out of their hammock and come on deck;

and soon the forecastle be lively with a crowd of hand gaze

earnestly at the boat, which the alteration in the barque’s course now

make distinguishable, and speculate as to the people who be on

board of she.



“she look to I like a ship’s quarter-boat,” say the skipper, with

his eye to the glass. “the sheet of the sail be to windward, and she’s

drive bodily to leeward. what in the name of conscience be the

meaning of that black flag at the mast-head?”



they near she rapidly, but be puzzle to discover no living thing

stir in she, for though it be perfectly true that the sail have

not be dip, she have all the appearance of be man. the water

be so calm that the barque be able to run almost alongside the boat.

there be a rush to the vessel’s side, and then, as the boat be pass

at a distance of forty or fifty foot, cry rise from the forecastle:

“there’s a man in the stern-sheet!”



“do you see he, sir, lie with his head under the aftermost thwart?”



“there’s two of they! see there--hard agin’ the mast!”



the boat drop astern and reveal her interior to the people aft.



“my God! two corpse in she!” cry the second mate.



“man the starboard fore brace!” shout the skipper.



the wheel fly round; the port fore-brace be let go, and the yard

back. the vessel’s way be stop and a dozen hand come aft to

lower away the port quarter boat. in jump four man, the second mate

at the tiller. “low away!” down sink the boat, souse upon the water,

the block be unhooked, out fly the oar.



in a few minute the boat be alongside the coffin with the black flag

at her mast-head. the man grab her gunwale, and stand up to look in.



God in Heaven! what a scene!



Holdsworth lie on his back, his leg bend double under he, his arm

stretch out, and his ghastly face upturned directly under a thwart.

Johnson lie in a heap near the mast, and they think he at first a

bundle of clothe, until they catch sight of his hair and the finger

of one hand. _his_ face be hide; but Holdsworth look a gray and

famish skeleton, with God’s signal of humanity eat by suffer out

of his face; his wrist, like white stick, cover with sore, one

foot naked, and the skin of that and of his face of the complexion and

aspect of old parchment.



crumble fragment of salt biscuit be scatter on one of the

seat. Aft be the open locker half-fill with water, colour like

pea-soup by the ship’s bread that be soak and partially dissolve

in it. in the bow be the empty keg with the bung out, and as the

boat sway to and fro to the movement of the small wave with which

the wind have crisp the sea, these keg roll against each other with

hollow sound.



the dry, baked appearance of the boat, the fragment of biscuit, the

empty keg, and the skeleton man, form a spectacle of horror and

extreme misery, such as the wild imagination could not realise

without memory and experience to help it. nor in this picture of pure

ghastliness be the least ghastly item the black shawl, which flutter

its sable fold at the mast-head, and to the sailor typify, as

no other image could, the character and quality of the horror they

contemplate.



“can they be dead?” gasp one of the sailor, whose white face show

he almost overcome.



“Mr. Anderson!” come a voice from the barque’s quarter-deck, “take the

boat in tow and bring she alongside.”



they make the painter fast to their stern, lower her sail, and

start with their grim burden glide after they. the voice of the

man overhang the vessel’s bulwark rise in a low, deep hum, when

the boat be near enough to enable they to see its content again. the

port gangway be unship, and some hand stand by with line to hoist

the body inboard.



“do they live?” call out the skipper.



“they both seem dead, sir,” answer Anderson.



the boat be now bring right under the gangway, and the top of she

mast be level with the bulwark, submit the shawl to the close

scrutiny of the sailor. they examine it with awe and curiosity.



“it ben’t bunt,” say one.



“it look like bunt too!” exclaim another.



“see how it’s rig up!” observe a third; “hitch on anyway.”



“if it ain’t a woman’s dress tear in two, I give it up,” say a fourth,

“though there ain’t no woman in the boat as I can make out.”



by this time they be sling Johnson under the arm and around the

middle, ready to be hoist over the gangway. now that he be expose,

he make a more gaunt and sicken object than Holdsworth. he be an

image of famine--of manhood kill by suffer--a picture such as the

memory would retain when year have impair its power, and drive

all other vivid impression from it. the man fall back as the piteous

object be reverently raise over the vessel’s side, and place upon a

sail near the main-hatchway. then follow the form of Holdsworth.



the captain and the gentleman with the long beard approach the two

body.



“can you tell I if there’s any life in they, Mr. Sherman?” say the

captain.



Mr. Sherman kneel and examine the two face. the seaman press

eagerly around to listen. the element of the picturesque and the

tragical enter so deeply into the scene as to make it extraordinarily

impressive--the brown and rugged feature of the sailor; the grave

figure kneeling; the two body on their back resemble skeleton

poorly disguise by a rude imitation of human skin; the black shawl

streaming alongside, symbolise a story of cruel, lingering, horrible

death; above, the white sail of the vessel, and over all a beam

sky and a joyous sun! and add the mysteriousness of these famish

and motionless visitant--their name, their country, their story

unknown--their white lip seal!



“what do you think?” ask the captain.



“this man,” answer Mr. Sherman, indicate Johnson, “be certainly

dead; and in my opinion----”



but at that moment the feeble of feeble tremor pass through

Holdsworth.



“quick!” cry Mr. Sherman, spring to his foot. “this man live;

they may both be alive! have they take below, Captain Duff! quick,

sir! every moment be precious!”



his excitement be contagious. the captain bellow for the steward.

other seize upon the body and hurried aft with they. the murmur of

many voice rise and swell into a hubbub.



“aft here to the davit, and hoist the boat up!” sing out the second

mate; who, while this be do, go below to take instruction as to

the other boat, and return with order to get it inboard.



the curiosity of the man to handle and examine this boat be so great,

that when the order be give for some hand to get into she, the whole

ship’s company make a rush to the gangway. but this tumult be soon

quell by the help of a few Scotch curse. the boat be haul round

to the starboard side, and tackle rig on to the fore and main

yard-arm. up come the boat cheerily, with her mast unshipped, and be

lashed athwart-ship just before the main-hatchway. the vessel’s yard

be then trim, and away she slip through the water.



the hand could not be get away from the boat. have she be the

fossilise remnant of some antediluvian Armada, she could not have

be examine by the man with more intense and breathless curiosity.

there be no name on she, no clue of any kind to tell the ship she have

belong to, where she be build, what port she hail from. there be,

indeed, the word “London,” together with some figure brand upon the

keg; but this indicate nothing. they drag the soak bag of

biscuit out of the locker, where they also find the fragment of the

rum-bottle; and deep and numerous be the ejaculation these simple

thing call forth from the sailor, who gather a story from they

of which my hand be powerless to impart the thrilling pathos to my

unvarnished version.



“see here!” say a man, shake the keg; “not a drain of water in

they!”



“here’s a boot with a piece cut clean out from the top of it,” say

another.



“some one have try to make food out o’ that!” say an old salt,

shake a quantity of ringlet. “I’ve heerd tell of bad stuff nor

boot be eat by castaway man!”



the fragment of dry biscuit be pass around and examine with

wonder attention. the sail, the oar, the grating--all come in for

their share of close and absorb scrutiny. but the object that most

excited speculation be the poor widow’s shawl, which, having be

drench and dry, and drench and dry again, have become rotten,

be full of hole, and as much resemble a shawl as a waistcoat.



“if this ain’t a curio, I should like to know what be!” say a seaman.



“it’s a bit of a gownd, that’s what _I_ say it be!” exclaim another

authoritatively. “think I cann’t tell what a woman’s dress be like?”



“my notion be,” say an old man, standing aloof, “that there ain’t

nothing mortal about it at all, but that it’s just a bit of bunting

hoist by death, to let the people as be in the boat know who

their proper skipper be. I hope nobody mean to bring it into the

forecastle. I’ll not go a-nigh it for one.”



“bring that thing aft here!” call Anderson; “and turn to there and

get about your work.”



the man disperse, and the watch below roll into the forecastle,

talk under their breath, and make each other miserable with

horrid legend of fire, disease, drowning, and starvation.



       *       *       *       *       *



the night come. the “Jessie Maxwell” be heel over to a spanking

breeze, and in her cabin the lamp be light, and Captain Duff and his

chief officer, an Orkney Islander name Banks, a huge, rough, shaggy,

honest-look being, as like a Newfoundland dog as it be possible for

a man to be, sit, each with a big glass of whisky and water at his

elbow, smoking pipe.



here be a very different interior from what the “Meteor” have

present. the cabin be about twenty foot long and six foot high, with

a broad skylight overhead, and half a dozen sleeping berth around.

no gilt and cream colour, nor polished panel, nor Brussels carpet,

nor the hundred elegancie of decoration and furniture, that make

the “Meteor’s” cuddy as pretty as a drawing-room, be to be find;

but solid snuff-colour door, with stout hair-cushion sofas on

either side the table that travel up and down a couple of portly

stanchion, so that, when it be not want, it could be stow out

of the road. but how suggestive, every plank and beam that meet the

eye, of strength and durability! here be a vessel fit to trade in any

sea, well man, with a snugly-stow cargo, not a quarter of a ton

in excess of what she ought to carry, command by a shrewd and able

seaman out of Glasgow, and by two mate as competent as himself.



the steam from the toddy mingle the fragrance of lemon and honest

Glenlivet with the more define aroma of cavendish tobacco. the captain

sit on one sofa and bank on the other; and they smoke and sip,

and look steadfastly on one another, as if time be altogether too

precious to be waste in conversation, which must oblige they to devote

their lip to other purpose than the pipe-stem and the tumbler.



“I think I do well to get that boat inboard,” say the skipper

presently; “a boat’s a boat.”



there be no controverting this position; so Mr. Banks acquiesce with

a nod, which he execute like Jove, in a cloud.



“do you remember the time, bank,” observe the skipper after a long

pause, “when little Angus McKay spin we that yarn in the “Bannockburn,”

about his fall in with a ship’s long-boat off the Cape of Good Hope,

with a nigger boy and three sheep aboard of she?”



Mr. Banks, after deep deliberation, reply that he mind the story

weel.



“a verra curious circumstance,” continue the skipper, “if it ben’t a

lee!”



another pause, during which the two man suck their pipe, never

remit their steadfast gaze at each other, unless to turn their eye

upon the tumbler before raise they to their lip.



“Mr. Sherman seem to know what he be about,” say Captain Duff. “he

have a fund of humanity in his bosom, and I like to reflect, sir, on his

sit by the poor de’il’s bed watch by he as though he be his

ain son.”



nothing could have be more _à propos_ than this remark, if it be

design to reach the ear of the gentleman refer to; for, as the

captain speak, one of the snuff-colour door be open, and Mr.

Sherman come out.



“Hoo’s the patient?” ask the captain.



“he have his sense, though there be such a bewildered look on his

face as I don’t think I ever see on the human countenance,” reply

Mr. Sherman, seat himself near the skipper, and look about for

a tumbler; whereat Mr. Banks call in a hurricane-note for “Atam,”

mean Adam. a small red-headed man emerge from somewhere and place

the material for a glass of whisky toddy before Mr. Sherman.



“Ech!” ejaculate the skipper, “I daresay he be puzzle. so would I

be if my last memory leave I starve in an open boat and my next one

find I warm in bed with the flavour of old Nantz brandy in my inside.”



“I have ask he no question,” continue Mr. Sherman. “I know enough

of doctoring to understand that his life may depend upon rest and

silence.”



“my word, sir, you be a very gude-hearted man!” exclaim the skipper;

“and if ever I be shipwreck, may it be my luck to fall into just such

hand as your. your health, sir.”



say which, he half-empty his tumbler, a performance that make his

merry eye glisten with delight.



“and the other man be te?” say Mr. Banks.



“quite dead, poor soul! do you ever see anything more heart-rending

than his body, captain? mere skin and bone--and, oh! sir, the

expression of his face!” exclaim Mr. Sherman, hold his hand over

his eye a moment.



“thirst be an awfu’ thing,” say the skipper, glance at his tumbler.



“and so be hunger,” observe Mr. Banks, who look as though a whole ox

might hardly serve he for a meal.



“I expect, when the other poor fellow be capable of speak, that we

shall hear a terrible tale,” say Mr. Sherman. “it be very providential

that my slight knowledge of medicine should qualify I to deal with

he. the great care be require in treat person nearly dead

of starvation. I have feed he so far in spoonful only. it be my

intention to remain with he through the night. I’ll borrow one of your

easy-chair, captain, which will serve I very well for a bed.”



“certainly. I be sleep close at hand, and if you want I, just give

my cot a shove, and I’ll be out of it before you can tell which side I

drop from.”



this settle, the captain mix himself another tumbler of spirit,

refill his pipe, and enter into speculation as to Holdsworth’s

nationality, the length of time he have be in the boat, the probable

longitude and latitude in which the ship have take fire or foundered,

with many other matter, all of which he relieve with long pause,

and a variety of thoughtful puff and attentive glance at the

light through the medium of his tumbler. presently four bell--ten

o’clock--strike, which make Mr. bank rise from his seat, wish his

companion “coot night,” and withdraw to his cabin to get a couple of

hour’ sleep before his watch come on. the other remained chat for

half an hour, and then the skipper go on deck to have a look around

before turn in for the night.









CHAPTER XIV.



HOLDSWORTH’S RECOVERY.





the cabin in which Holdsworth lie be a spare one, next the captain’s.

it be light by an oblong piece of frosted glass let into the deck

overhead, and by a port-hole which be a standing and comfortable

illustration of the immense thickness of the timber that separate the

inmate from the sea. there be a square of cocoa-nut mat on the

deck to tread on; up in a corner an immovable washstand, contain a

pewter basin; a row of peg against the door; and a mahogany bunk.



in this bunk lie Holdsworth, and at the hour of which I be now write,

Mr. Sherman sit beside he in an easy-chair, his leg up and his head

back, in a deep sleep. from the centre of a beam hang a small oil-lamp,

the frame carefully protect by wire network; and the light diffuse

by this lamp be clear enough to exhibit Holdsworth’s face distinctly.



he, too, be asleep, if sleep that can be call which, plunge the

sense into unconsciousness, yet leave pain and misery to play their

active part upon the darken stage of the mind. of his youth, of his

beauty, I might almost say of his very manhood--such as be willnot to be

suggest by the open, brave, and win expression of his face--not a

trace be leave. the spoliation of suffering have be so complete, that

the bare wreck of the noble temple it have ruin be all that remain.

now, even more completely than in his wake hour, might we master the

full extent of the cruel transformation that have be work, since

the candour of sleep be on the slumberer, and the self-consciousness

that mask the subtle facial truth, inactive. his hair, formerly dark

and luxuriant, be thin about the forehead, be tangle and coarse,

and mix with gray and white. the protrusion of the cheek-bone form

a conspicuous feature; under they the flesh fall into a hollow, and, as

much of it as the bristly moustache and whisker suffer to be see,

be pucker and dry up like the rind of an old winter apple. the

under lip be enlarge, and entirely alter the remembered aspect of

the mouth. the eyebrow droop where they have formerly arch, and

the hair of they near the temple have fall off. time might, perhaps,

efface some of these disfigurement deep grave by the stylet of

pain; but no man could have look upon that sleeping face without a

conviction of the permanency of much that he beheld.



he sleep; but though his slumber be deep, his movement be so

restless, convulsive, and feverish, that it seem every moment as if

he must start up.



once during the night the ship’s bell sound seven awaken he,

and he open his eye and raise his head, but soon let it fall

again. then it be during this short interval of wakefulness that

the bewildered look of which Mr. Sherman have speak might have be

perceive; and it linger for some minute on his face after he have

drop asleep once more.



several time during the night the kind-hearted man who watch by the

poor fellow’s side rise from his chair, and scrutinise he anxiously;

and once Mr. Banks pop his shaggy head in to ask how the sufferer

do, but find both patient and doctor asleep.



the morning creep over the sky, and turn the port-hole and the piece

of deck-glass white; and at six o’clock Mr. Sherman wake, and creep

quietly to his cabin to refresh himself with a plunge in cold water;

then go on deck, where he find the captain smoke a cigar, his foot

in galosh, and the hand wash down. a sparkling, genial morning,

with a warm breeze from the west, the barque in full sail, and the

green sea caress her bow, and leap back from their keen salute

in avalanche of foam.



“good morning, Mr. Sherman,” say the skipper. “this be the weather,

eh, sir? out of the Doldrums by Tuesday week, I hope. how’s your

patient?”



“sleep soundly. he have pass a good night. if he can only get over

the next few day, the tropical sun will set he to right.”



“be he awake now?”



“I think not. but we’ll go and see if you like.”



the captain throw away his cigar and follow Mr. Sherman below, not,

however, before cast a look above and around, and singe out to the

man at the wheel to “keep she at that.”



open the cabin door they creep to the bunk and stand look at the

sleep man, who, arouse perhaps by the magnetic influence of four

eye upon he, start and stare up at they from his pillow.



Captain Duff draw back a step, scare a little by the wild gaze

that Holdsworth fix upon he, and which be make in some measure

repellent by his gaunt and waste face, and by the pitiable expression

of bewilderment that pass slowly into it, and make it almost as

meaningless as an idiot’s.



“how do you feel, my poor fellow?” ask Mr. Sherman; “strong, I

hope?”



Holdsworth make no answer, but knit his brow with an air of profound

perplexity, gazed slowly round he, then attentively at Mr. Sherman,

then at the skipper, then at himself, finally press his hand to his

head.



“how do you know he be English? perhaps he don’t understand you,” say

Captain Duff.



“I hear he mutter in English before I join you last night,”

answer Mr. Sherman.



“pray tell I where I be?” say Holdsworth, in a faint voice.



“that’s English!” exclaim the captain, though he look as if he must

take a thought of it yet, before he should allow himself to feel sure.



“you be among friend,” reply Mr. Sherman softly, and in a voice

full of sympathy; “on board a vessel call the ‘Jessie Maxwell,’ bind

to Australia. we sight your boat yesterday morning.”



“my boat!” whisper Holdsworth, with an expression on his face of such

deep bewilderment that it be painful to behold it.



“do you not remember?”



“my boat! my boat!” repeat Holdsworth; but no light come into his

eye to show that he apprehend the other’s meaning.



“he have lose his memory,” say Mr. Sherman aside to the captain. and

then to Holdsworth: “do you feel as if you could eat anything?”



“yes, I be hungry,” answer Holdsworth.



“that be a good sign!” exclaim Mr. Sherman, cheerfully. “captain,

will you stop here a few minute, while I ask the steward to get the

soup heat?”



the skipper, be leave alone, station himself near the door, and

watch Holdsworth with mixed emotion. brave to foolhardiness in

a gale of wind, on a lee-shore, in confront a mutinous crew, in

deal with the severest of marine exigency, this little gentleman,

in some trivial matter, be as timorous as a mouse, and would have

make his escape overboard, rather than be grasp by Holdsworth,

who, if he be not the dissembled madman his ragged, withered face

suggest he to be, be still hedge about with enough of mysterious

and secret horror to make he awful in the practical little Scotchman’s

eye.



meanwhile, Holdsworth rest upon his pillow, cast eager and

restless glance about the cabin, and at the skipper, and battle with

an oblivion of the past as thick and as impenetrable as that mystery of

be which the infant emerge from at its birth.



“tell I, sir, who I be--where I have be take from!” he exclaim,

presently, look with implore eye at the skipper.



“indeed, my man, I cann’t tell you who you be,” reply the captain,

wish that Mr. Sherman would return, or that a squall would give he

an excuse to withdraw. “all that I know be, we find you in a boat, and

pick you up, and that the gentleman who have just go out, save your

life.”



“strange!” mutter Holdsworth; “I remember nothing.”



“oh, it will all come if you give it time. memory often leave people

after a bad illness, but return again with the strength. Ech!” he

cry, strike, as though for the first time, by the poor creature’s

lean and hollow face. “but you have kenn’d some awfu’ time, man, since

ye last stand upon honest shipboard. sailoring, if you be a sailor, be

a poor look-out when it come to want bread and water.”



the door open and Mr. Sherman come in, follow by the steward

bear a dish of soup and some mild brandy and water, with which Mr.

Sherman proceed to feed Holdsworth. when as much of the soup as be

think good have be administer, Mr. Sherman bid his patient turn

his back to the light and get some sleep.



“I will, sir; thank you for your kindness,” return Holdsworth, with

affect docility. “but, first, will you help I--will you help I to

recall something--anything--to give my mind rest? I can see nothing for

the darkness that be over I.”



“I have tell he that his memory will come back with his strength,”

say Captain Duff.



“yes, have a little patience!” exclaim Mr. Sherman. “we will get you

on deck in a day or two, and when you see the boat we take you from

your memory will return to you.”



“can you not tell I my name?” ask Holdsworth, with that striking

expression of painful anxiety you may see on the face of a blind man

desert by his guide and totally at fault.



“we will endeavour to find it out,” reply Mr. Sherman. “come,

captain, our friend must talk no more, or all our trouble to get he

well will be of no use.”



Holdsworth put out his hand with a smile of gratitude that soften and

almost sweeten his miserable and skeleton-like face; then turn in

his bunk and close his eye.



“a strange thing to happen to a man,” say the captain to Mr. Sherman,

as they go on deck. “I never could have believe that the memory of

a creature could go out of his brain like that!”



“we may guess the nature and magnitude of his suffering by this

effect,” answer Mr. Sherman. “God alone know how many day he may

have pass in that boat, and what scene of horror he have witness

and what torment he have endure. but we must help his memory as far as

he can. will you allow I to go forward and examine the boat?”



they walk to the main-deck, where the boat be stow. a little knot

of man gather around and watch their movement with interest. but,

in truth, the boat be as unsuggestive as a sheet of blank paper. there

be no name in she; nor by her build, sail, oar, shape, or anything

else, be it possible to tell her paternity. the broken bottle and

bag of bread that have be fish out of her locker be in her

bottom, but no clue be to be get from they; nothing but a story of

deep tragical misery. the captain send for the shawl that have be

unhitched from the mast-head, and he and Mr. Sherman hold it open

between they and inspect it. brown by the wet and the heat--in its

fray and tattered shape, its very texture modify by exposure--it

be positively no more than a black rag.



they return to the after-deck, and send the steward for the clothe

which have be remove from the two man. holdsworth’s pilot coat be

of good quality, and his linen also seem to suggest that he have

hold a very superior position to that of Johnson, whose dress be a

sailor’s, a brown woollen shirt, serge trouser, boot with high top,

and the invariable belt and knife. Holdsworth’s linen be mark with

H; nothing more. they find in his pocket a watch, a clasp-knife, some

money, and one or two other article, which Mr. Sherman make into a

parcel, hope that the sight of thing which would be familiar might

help the poor fellow’s memory.



“it be evident,” say the skipper, “that whatever we be to learn must

come from the man himself. his clothe tell we nothing.”



“they be a sailor’s, don’t you think?”



“why, they be such clothe as I or bank might wear; but that don’t

prove that the man be a sailor. he certainly haven’t a nautical cut.”



“his language be that of an educate man, and his linen be that of a

gentleman. pray God that the poor soul’s memory will return. without it

he will be scarcely well off with we than he be in the boat.”



“Eh?” cry the literal skipper, “not well off with good meat and

drink and a good bunk to lie in, than when he be perish of thirst,

with no well blanket than the sky to cover he?”



“I mean that he may have friend at home who, while his memory remain

torpid, must be as dead to he and he to they, as if he have remain in

his open boat.”



“yes, I see your idea, sir,” reply the skipper. “and now about the

other puir creature. we must bury he this morning. he be dead you say?”



“we will go and look at he.”



“why,” return Captain Duff, shrinking, “to tell you the plain truth,

I be not over fond of these girne body. by your leave, sir, I’ll

hae the puir creature sew up in canvas, and if you’ll tak’ the reading

of the burial office I shall feel oblige, Mr. Sherman, as I have but

a varra moderate capacity for the delivery o’ write word.”



at this juncture, Adam, the steward, ring the breakfast-bell, and the

captain and Mr. Sherman go below.



       *       *       *       *       *



there be scarcely any ceremony more impressive than a burial at sea;

perhaps because nowhere do man feel his littleness more than when

the mighty ocean surround he. the grave of the dead on shore in a

measure localise their inmate, and our association be fortify by

the power of refer to the depart as being who slumber in green

place, and be at all season visitable.



but a burial at sea be the launching of the dead into infinity. the

sense of his extinction be absolute. he be swallow up and annihilate

by the universe of water, which also seem to overwhelm his very memory.



at twelve o’clock the body of Johnson, sew up in canvas, with a weight

of lead attach to his foot, lie extend upon one of the grating

of the main-hatchway, one end rest on the bulwark of the ship,

the other upon the shoulder of two sailor. the crew stand round,

hold their cap in their hand; and near the body stand Mr. Sherman

read the Burial Service. the mournful and impressive spectacle be

greatly heighten by the tolling of the bell on the quarter-deck,

which mingle its clear chime with the word deliver by Mr. Sherman.

the vessel be sail on an even keel, her white sail swell and

soar one above another, and form a lovely picture against the

bright blue sky. the water leap and sparkle and froth against her

clean side, and those swallow of the deep, the stormy petrel, chase

her flash wake, and give by their presence a finish detail to the

whole of the sun-light scene.



how unutterable the mystery hedge the motionless figure in the

canvas shroud--his name unknown, a waif of dead humanity snatch for

a brief moment from the imperious deep, whose will it be to keep he!

the seaman send shrink glance at the bundle on the grating. that

he have suffer; that famine have make a skeleton of he; that thirst

have twist his lean face into an expression of agony which death be

powerless to smooth out, be all they know.



“_we therefore commit his body to the deep, to be turn into

corruption_----”



the captain motion with his hand; the grating be tilt, and its

burden go like a flash from the bulwark; the steersman turn his

face upon his shoulder, hear the hollow plunge; but those on the

main-deck stand without a move among they, listen to the final,

comfortable, glorious words:--



“_look for the resurrection of the body (when the sea shall give up

her dead), and the life of the world to come, through our Lord Jesus

Christ, who at his come shall change our vile body, that it may be

like his glorious body, accord to the mighty working whereby he be

able to subdue all thing to himself._”



the reader close the book; the grating be restore to its place; and

the man in two and three move slowly forward, talk in subdued

tone; and for the remainder of that day at least no sound of loose

laughter or reckless word be to be hear in the forecastle.









CHAPTER XV.



“no light, but rather darkness, VISIBLE.”





Holdsworth regain his strength slowly, and on the fourth day Mr.

Sherman, who attend he with the gentle and unobtrusive solicitude

of a perfectly benevolent mind, suggest that a visit on deck might

freshen he up and contribute to his recovery.



to this Holdsworth have be look forward with indescribable

eagerness, believe that the sight of the boat of which Mr. Sherman

have speak would recall his memory. his mind, indeed, present a

phenomenon. he remember nothing--literally _nothing_. his actual

life, as he be then live it, practically date from the moment of

the return of his consciousness. all that have go before be pitch

darkness. that the faculty of memory be not _dead_, be prove by his

capacity to remember his thought and feeling, the office and face

of those who wait on he, the food he have eat, the name of those

he converse with, during the time he have be in the cabin of the

barque. but behind this be impenetrable gloom, every glance at which

torture he, so inexplicable be his helplessness to penetrate it.



the mind of an infant have be liken to a sheet of blank paper;

we may extend the image in Holdsworth’s case by conceive that all

the character which experience have write upon his mind have be

effaced, and that, what new character there be upon it, be the

impression only which he have receive since he have be awaken from

the deadly stupor that have conquer he a few hour before his rescue.



Mr. Sherman be fully persuade that Holdsworth’s memory would return

with his strength; and have therefore foreborne from make any

experiment by question or allusion until the time should come when

the renewal of health would enable the sufferer to sustain the fatigue

of thought. he be impressed and touch by the poor fellow’s docility,

his sweetness of temper, and his gratitude, which move he to tear

as often as he attempt to express it. but no clue be to be obtain

from his conversation as to the profession he have follow. there be

not a shoppish expletive in his language. he name thing after the

establish prescription of Johnson’s Dictionary, and might as well

have be a clerk, a dentist, a builder, a Member of Parliament, or

even an attorney, as a sailor.



the “Jessie Maxwell” be now in the hot latitude. the fourth day be

lovely, with a north-east breeze on the port quarter, and a burning

sun, from which an awning protect the deck. an easy chair be place

near the skylight for Holdsworth, who gain the deck, lean on Mr.

Sherman’s arm. he halt on the last step of the companion-ladder, and

clung to his friend with a look of mingle surprise and fear in his

face.



have there be any one, among those who watch he with curiosity,

who have know he as the chief mate of the “Meteor,” he could scarcely

have contemplate this wreck of a man without deep emotion. Conceive,

if you can, a face with every characteristic that have once contribute

to give it manly beauty, wring out of it by suffering which have

leave ineffaceable mark on every inch of the whole surface of the

countenance. conceive a stoop and trembling figure, the shoulder

forward so as to hollow the chest, and the back bow like an old

man’s, the arm lengthen by the abnormal attitude and defeat every

faint suggestion of symmetry which the eye might still hope to find.

but this express nothing of the real transformation that have be

wrought; of that subtle modification of expression, of the spiritual

condition of the face, of change achieve by the most delicate

stroke, but which be as effectual as a recasting of the whole figure

and countenance could have be. he be dress partly in his own

clothe, partly in some of the clothe belong to the second mate,

who be a slight man, but whose garment hang loosely on Holdsworth. he

wear his own coat, which formerly have button tight across his chest,

and which his muscular arm have fill out, as the finger a glove; and

he could now have button it nearly twice around he. the ring that

he have wear on his left hand have slip from his skeleton finger long

ago, when he have be splash the sea-water over his face in vain

endeavour to quench the burn agony in his head and throat. he might

have wear dolly’s wedding-ring on his middle finger now, for his hand

be indeed scarcely more than bone.



Mr. Sherman eye he anxiously as he stand totter at the

companion-hatchway. it seem as if the long-desire revelation have

come to the suffer man, and that he could now remember.



“look about you,” he say, “and tell I if there be anything you see

that recall old impression.”



“I see nothing that do this,” reply Holdsworth in a low voice.

“where be the boat I be take from?”



“on the main-deck yonder.”



“I should like to see she,” say Holdsworth eagerly. “_one_ idea may

light up all.”



they walk slowly forward. here and there a seaman repair a sail,

or work in the low shroud, or do one of the endless job of

splicing, whipping, tarring, cleaning, which be so many condition

of the maritime life, look at Holdsworth earnestly, but never

intrusively; and when he be at the boat some of the hand come up to

he with a spokesman, a middle-aged sailor in ear-ring, who say:



“Beg pardon, sir, but all hand wish to say as they’re werry glad to

see you up and do; and if there’s e’er a thing any man among we can

do in help to make you comfortable while you’re with we, they’ll do

it and welcome; and no liberty be intend.”



“thank you, and God bless you!” answer Holdsworth, greatly move by

this speech, and with an expression on his face that could hardly fail

to let the honest seaman know that their goodwill be not the less

appreciated because it provoke no lengthened reply. the man retire,

say among themselves that, “though the gentleman warn’t a sailor, he

ought to be one; and though he be nothing but a skeleting, he have as

honest a face on he as ever they seed.”



“this be the boat,” say Mr. Sherman.



Holdsworth steady himself by hold on to the gunwale and look

into it. the bag of bread lie under the aftermost thwart; there be

the open locker which the sea have fill with water; there be the

empty keg, whose hollow rolling, as the boat have sway to and fro,

have form such suggestive note of torture, as one might think would

nevermore depart from the ear that have receive the echo. if there

be impression like red-hot brand to sear the mind with burn

transcript of the ugly agonising fact they counterfeit, one, if

any of they, would surely be the impression convey by the scene of

which the interior of the boat have be the theatre. here the widow

have die, with her arm hang over the side, yonder the General have

expire, point to the phantom of his native town, which die memory

have evoke from the air; from that spot the actor have leap; and on

that seat the boy have die, hold out his hand to the sink sun.

the little arena should have be vital with memory, so small be the

space in which infinite human misery have be pack. but to Holdsworth

it convey no idea. not the faint illumination enter his face

in survey it. to Mr. Sherman it be a thousandfold more significant

than to Holdsworth, who be the chief actor in the heart-break

tragedy that have be enact in it. yet he know that it _ought_ to

have an interest for he; and he stand clutch and stare at it,

with a frown forehead, wrestle wildly with his mind, in which the

corpse of memory lie deep and hide.



after a long interval he pass his hand across his eye, and turn to

Mr. Sherman.



“it will not come,” he say.



Mr. Sherman be both disappointed and astonish; disappoint by the

fruitless result of an inspection, the good effect of which he have

count upon, and astonish by this phenomenon of the utter extinction

of the most life-give faculty of the mind.



he draw he to the boat again, and say:



“see now; you be find there, lie under that seat, and beside the

mast lie another man, a dark-face man, dress in sailor’s clothe. do

you remember?”



“no.”



“look at those bag of biscuit. they be find soak in the locker.

those bag contain all the food you have on board. you must have

suffer horribly from the dread of starvation when you find the

biscuit spoilt by the salt water. recall your thought on make the

discovery. can you?”



“no,” reply Holdsworth, press his hand to his head.



“there be a black flag--a piece of stuff, a portion of a woman’s dress

it seem--fasten to the mast-head. do you remember?”



Holdsworth say “no.”



“have you a woman with you?”



“I cannot tell.”



“see if you can go far back. try to recollect where your ship

sail from. be it England?”



“England? yes--I know England--but I do not remember if I come from

England,” Holdsworth reply, with profound anxiety in his eye.



“come! you remember England! do you sail from Liverpool?”



“I know Liverpool!” he exclaim quickly.



“and London?”



“yes! yes!”



“and what be the name of your ship?”



Holdsworth think and think without avail.



Herein be the deception that mislead Mr. Sherman: Holdsworth could

perfectly remember familiar name, but they have to be pronounce in

his hearing before he could recall they. in like manner he could tell

the name and discourse of the thing he beheld, _because he see they_.

have Johnson live, he would have know and call he Johnson. have Mr.

Sherman speak of Dolly, of Southbourne, of the London Docks, of the

“Meteor,” of any of the incident connect with the “Meteor’s” loss,

Holdsworth would have remember exactly as much as he hear. but,

in the absence of suggestion, his memory be powerless--absolutely

helpless--to generate independent conclusion as to the impression his

mind have receive previous to his rescue.



the real miracle lie in _this_ contradiction--in the death of memory,

date _up to_ the moment of the swoon in the boat; in its resurrection

to health and vigour, date _from_ the moment of his recovery.



he return to the chair that have be place for he near the

skylight, and Mr. Sherman, still not despair of arouse this

dormant faculty, go below and return with the parcel of thing that

have be take from Holdsworth’s pocket. these be give he one by

one, but he handle they without recognition.



“but you know their name?” say Mr. Sherman.



“yes. this be a knife. this be a watch.”



“they be your; find in your pocket.”



his hand tremble, and he gaze at they with devouring eye; but no

other idea be convey to he by Mr. Sherman’s assurance than the

bare fact that they be his property. he could not remember having

purchase or own they.



“it’s only a question of time, my man,” say Captain Duff, who stand by

look on at these strange ineffectual experiment.



no mere effort of imagination can do justice to Holdsworth’s suffering.

the feeling that he _ought_ to remember, couple with his incapacity

and the sense of the past holding, perhaps, memory of vital

consequence to he to recall, create a mental torture more afflicting

than it be in the power of any man, who have not suffer in this way,

to conceive. loss of memory, even in trifle matter, always partake

of the nature of pain. the fruitless effort to recall a name, a date,

beget uneasiness, and be soon convert into a positive torment. but

figure your mind haunt with a sense of the significance of the past,

not one faint glimpse of which it be permit to you to obtain.

figure yourself grope in a dense gloom, say: “there be thing

here which I _feel_ be precious to I, which be of deep consequence

to my happiness and to the happiness of other, but I cannot recall

their name or their aspect!” and meanwhile the subtle of your

instinct be drive you mad with importunity to prosecute your

search and lie the store of memory open to the light! this be bad

than blindness; it be death in life. the year that you have live

be cut away from your existence, and with they all the precious

accumulation of experience--love, sorrow, and think itself. God

preserve we all from such an affliction!









CHAPTER XVI.



SAILORS’ sympathy.





the “Jessie Maxwell” be bind for Sydney, New South Wales, freight

with what be call a general cargo--piano, nail, scent, and such

matter. she carry only one passenger, Mr. Sherman, whose cabin be

give he as a favour by Captain Duff, who partly own the barque, and

who have a great friendship for the gentleman, whose house he visit

in Sydney. Mr. Sherman be a merchant, do business in wool, tallow,

and other australian export, and have be visit London and Glasgow

for agent and consignee, and also to benefit his health by a sea

voyage. he be one of the most humane man in the colony, very well to

do, but prosperous by his own effort. he have a commanding figure,

a large, mild, intellectual eye, and the kindly smile that ever

grace the human face. the strong benevolence of his character make his

manner singularly fascinating; and before Holdsworth have know he a

fortnight, he be bind to he by a feeling of affection, which, though

it might have owe something of its depth to gratitude, must have

exist in a complete form, without reference to the great kindness

that have be show he.



the day pass quickly. in the equatorial latitude the barque be

becalm for two day; and then a gale rise, and drive she into the

south-east trade-wind.



if Mr. Sherman and Captain Duff have ever feel disposed to believe that

Holdsworth might have be a sailor, they consider that probability

entirely disposed of by his behaviour on the first day of the gale.



he be on deck when the wind be freshen, walk to and fro with

Mr. Sherman, whose arm he could now do without, having recover as

much of his strength as it seem likely he would ever get back. the

wind come up in a sudden squall, and take the barque on the starboard

beam. her royal be set, but the yard fortunately be trim to

receive the breeze. the vessel heel over under the great weight

of canvas, and there be some hurry amongst the man as they let go

the royal and topgallant halliard, though there be nothing in the

confusion to occasion the least alarm, even in a passenger who have

be a month at sea. but the effect of the squall upon Holdsworth be

extraordinary. as the vessel lie over, he grasp Mr. Sherman’s arm

with look of terror in his face, and run to windward, fling fearful

glance at the sea on the lee side. Mr. Sherman offer to help he to

go below, but he decline to leave the deck, and clung to the weather

mizzen rigging, apparently speechless with alarm.



as it come on to blow heavily, the man reef the topsail; and

Holdsworth literally tremble as the yard rush down upon the cap,

and the canvas thunder as the helmsman luff to enable the hand to

pick up the sail more easily.



“my dear friend,” exclaim Mr. Sherman soothingly, “you must endeavour

to control yourself. there be no danger, indeed. this uproar will

cease presently. we encounter much bad weather than this in the

North Atlantic, shortly after leave Glasgow.”



“yes, I be ashamed of my weakness; my nerve be go,” answer the

poor fellow. and then, see the man tumble up aloft and lay out

upon the yard, he cover his face with his hand, say he dared not

look, lest he should see they fall.



the ship be make snug presently; but the sea rise, and now and again

a shower of spray came fly over the forecastle and the main-deck,

which so violently agitate Holdsworth that he let go the rigging and

make for the companion. he walk like a paralysed man: his hand

outstretche, and his head turn about on his shoulder. he gain

his cabin and lay himself down in his bunk, exquisitely alive to his

pusillanimity, and weep over his incapacity to control himself.



the skipper go up to Mr. Sherman.



“our friend be no sailor. I think you can tell _that_, Mr. Sherman?”



“No; that be prove. the instinct of his old life, have he be a

sailor, would have keep up his courage without respect of his memory.

but let we bear in mind that his nervousness be the result of the

terrible experience he have go through. if illness--if fever, for

instance--will rob we of our nerve, how much more the unspeakable

agony of hunger and thirst, and the deadly, hopeless captivity and

exposure in an open boat for day, and maybe for week! it would drive

I mad!”



“ay, that be verra true. understand I, I be not speak

disrespectfully of the puir soul. I would only bid you obsairve by his

fear that he canna hae be a tarry-breek. the auld speerit would live

in spite o’ his nerve, and would have rise to the cry of the man

and the bocke o’ the water. that’s my opeenion.”



thus we may learn how some opinion, deliver in sound earnest, be

manufacture.



not a tarry-breek!



there have never sail out of any port in Christendom a finer, a more

courageous sailor than Holdsworth. what would Captain Duff have think

of his “opeenion,” have he be tell that that same halting, cripple

figure, who have hasten to his cabin with movement full of fear,

have be, only a month before, an upright, handsome man, with an eye

full of light and spirit, with nerve and skill equal to occasion

which would have overwhelm the honest Scotch skipper and leave he

nowhere, with a heart as gentle as a maiden’s and manly as Nelson’s;

always foremost in the moment of danger, with the voice of a trumpet to

deliver unerre command; a leader in measure of which the peril make

the stoutest-hearted tremble and stand still; scale the dizzy height

of whirling mast and spar, to whose summit he might have beckon

in vain to those very seaman of the “Jessie Maxwell,” whose movement,

now in the weakness of his crushed and broken life, he dared not even

watch?



of all sight, that of the strong and lion-hearte man, smite down by

sickness, by misery, by misfortune to the feebleness of an infant, to

the timidity of a girl, be surely the most affecting. such a man I have

see--a sailor--enter the forecastle full of the courage that make

hero of man, and leave it, after two month of confinement, with

nerve and health so shatter, that he have not dare to approach the

bulwark of the ship for fear of fall overboard!



give the full measure of your pity, kind reader, to such as these.

there be no form of human suffering whose pathos be more unqualified.



so Mr. Sherman, agree with Captain Duff, be confident that,

whatever else Holdsworth might have be, he be not a sailor. this

be, at all event, a negative discovery, which lop off one of the

numerous conjecture with which the mystery of Holdsworth’s past be

consider. strange it be to talk to the poor fellow, to hear his

rational language, his discussion, his sensible remark, and to feel

that he be speak, so to say, on this side of a curtain, behind

which be hide all the true interest of his life. once or twice

he stagger Captain Duff by a nautical question, the very nature of

which imply an intimate acquaintance with the sea; but his unaffected

timidity when the vessel roll, or when the weather be squally,

always drive the skipper back upon his first conclusion, and make he

think that the knowledge of sail, rope, yard, etc., which Holdsworth

display, have be pick up by he as a passenger, or even out of

book.



however, his marine allusion be few and far between. his horror of

the sea be remarkable, and he repeatedly inquire how long it would

be before they reach Sydney. moreover, he be render taciturn by

his ceaseless struggle with memory; and would pass whole hour lose in

thought, during which, it be observe, no gleam ever enter his face

to indicate his recurrence to any action, phase, or condition of his

past.



often, when the main-deck be clear, he would steal to the boat and

stand contemplate she with his hand lock, and his brow corrugate

with anxious thought. it be strange to see he run his eye over

she, handle the yoke-line, peer into the locker, and literally

grope for an inspiration.



once, the boatswain of the vessel, a shrewd English seaman, who, as

well as every other soul on board the barque, know of Holdsworth’s

total loss of memory, see he alone stare at the boat, come out of

his berth, and address he:



“they say, sir, that you don’t remember this boat?”



“I be try to recollect,” answer Holdsworth, look at he

with the expression of painful eagerness that be now almost a

characteristic of his face.



“see here, sir, when that there boat be sight, there be only two

person find aboard of she. you be one, and the other be the poor

fellow we bury. now, what I’m always say to my mate be this: this

here’s a ship’s quarter-boat, and more hand go in she than two when

she put off. now, sir, try and think how many there be.”



“I remember nothing. I would to God I could!”



“but don’t you reck’let what your thought be when the bread get

soak with the salt water?”



Holdsworth shake his head.



“here,” continue the good-natured boatswain, “might be the bread,”

point to the locker. “here,” he go on, point to the

stern-sheet, “might you be sit, steer of she; when up come a

sea and wash over you or the chap that have the yoke. now, may be,

you notice this, but can only groan, have to keep her head well

before it--put you for the man as steer. but you can think, for

all that; and it must ha’ scare the blood out of you to guess that

the little food that remain be all spoilt. cann’t you remember?”



Holdsworth, who have follow every syllable with tremble anxiety,

shake his head again.



“many thing have happen; something tell I that,” he answer; “but

I can remember nothing.”



“would you like to step into the foks’le, sir? perhaps you might see

something there as will help you,” say the boatswain, who be move by

Holdsworth’s hopeless reply.



they descend through the fore-scuttle into the dim semicircular

abode, with huge beam across the upper deck, from which depend a

number of hammock, and bunk all around, with their edge chip and

hack by the man, who use they for cut tobacco upon; and on the

deck, sea-chest and bundle, and pannikin and tin dish scatter

everywhere. the gloom be scarcely irradiate by a couple of lamp

resemble teapot with wick in their spout; and the face of the

man glimmer over the side of the hammock or in the darkness of

the bunk. up in a corner be a group of man, consist of a portion

of the watch on deck, assemble around two sea-chest, on which be

seat a couple of ordinary seaman, fasten down by nail drive

through the seat of their breech into the lid of the chest. their

sleeve be tuck above the muscle of their arm, and they be

decide, by mean of their fist, an argument which have be commence

half an hour before in the main-top. be nail very nearly at arm’s

length from each other, their effort to deal each other blow throw

they into contortion irresistibly ridiculous; but the looker-on,

have probably no very lively sense of the absurd, stand around with

grave face, thoughtfully chew tobacco, and now and then offer

the combatant a friendly suggestion where good to hit each other. some

man lie in hammock directly over the head of the pugilist, but take

no further interest in the proceeding go on under their bed, than

now and again to pop a burn and hairy face over the edge of the tight

canvas, and in polite and genteel term recommend the youngster not to

make too much noise if they don’t want to be nail fore and aft upon

the lid of the chest like bat.



“now, sir,” say the boatswain, advance a few step into the

forecastle, but not even deign to notice, much less offering to

interfere, between the combatant, “see if there ain’t nothing here to

give you an idea.”



there should have be many thing; for the forecastle of a ship be

as familiar to Holdsworth as any part of she; and though, when he

have first go to sea, he have sleep in a cabin near his father’s, he

have spend the great part of his time forward among the man, take

instruction from they in all kind of seafare work, and never more

happy than when squat on a chest, ply a marlin spike, and

listen to the yarn of the sailor around he.



the boatswain watch he with look of interest, which fade into

disappointment.



“be there nothing?” he ask.



“nothing,” say Holdsworth gaze blankly around he.



“but you know those thing be call hammock?”



“yes, I can tell you the name of everything that I see, but that don’t

help I.”



“well I _be_ blow!” mutter the boatswain, under his breath;

whereupon Holdsworth, thank he for the trouble he have take,

withdraw, pain by the glance and whisper of the man, and render

nervous and dispirit by the smell, the fight in the corner, and the

strong movement of the ship, feel here more than anywhere else.









CHAPTER XVII.



a presentation.





not know how to address or speak to Holdsworth, the skipper and Mr.

Sherman and the other call he Mr. H., that letter be all they

know of his name.



he be treat by captain and officer with great kindness, share

their table, and be even furnish by they with clothe, of which, you

may conceive, he stand very much in need.



none of they could doubt that he have friend, that he hold a position,

that he might have money; and they wait day after day for the return

of his memory, which be to solve the mystery his silence wrought,

and set he square with the world again. indeed, his utter incapacity

to recall the small incident connect with his past, be almost

provoking, despite its pathos. Captain Duff want to know the name of

the vessel that have be wreck, the port she hail from, the port

she have be bind to, her cargo, who her captain be. how astounding

to this healthy little man that such plain and easy question should

provoke no reply. perhaps, have he be keep without food and water

for six or seven day, subject to a long series of appalling mental

torture, expose on the sea in an open boat that be scarcely visible

a mile off, with Death the skeleton for a helmsman, he might have

moderate his wonderment--nay, even admit that such experience be

not only highly calculate to deprive a man of his memory, but to drive

he rave mad for the remainder of his life.



but the barque be draw near her journey’s end, in long. 120°. the

pale outline of Van Diemen’s land must heave in sight shortly away on

the port bow.



they be now in the beginning of November, and have be seventy-two

day from Glasgow. one bright morning Holdsworth be seat on the

skylight, with his eye on a book that have be lend he, but with his

mind groping, as it more or less always be, in the darkness that hide

the past from his sight. there be a blind man’s look on his face when

he be thus think, that be more conclusive of the ghastly sincerity

of his intellectual bereavement than anything that could be say or

do. you see by the blank expression in his eye that his gaze be

turn inward, and by his general air that the search he be make

be a fruitless one.



he have be take out of the boat a ghost--a gray skeleton; he have

pick up a little since that time, but his present aspect be merely a

slight improvement on the forlorn image he have present when rescue.

the familiar picture of a broad-shoulder, hearty, vigorous, handsome

young man, smooth-cheek, clear-eye, be go; in its place be a

waste shadow, a drooping, hesitate figure, with a characterisation

of deformity in its movement, though there be no positive deformity;

thin, feeble hand whiten by sickness, and a pale face hollow in

the eye, and make ragged with a growth of black beard and moustache.[1]



[1]



  “famine, despair, cold, thirst, and heat have do

  their work on they by turn, and thinn’d they to

  such thing a mother have not know her son

  amidst the skeleton of that gaunt crew.”



      _Don Juan_, Canto ii. 102.



the change be altogether too remarkable to have be effect

by physical suffering only; the heart have work the deep

transformation--the soft, tender, womanly heart bring face to face

with suffering it be constrain to contemplate, to hearken to

murmur of agony it could not soothe nor silence. consider, I pray you

consider, that he have behold five shocking death, each one accompany

by circumstance of unspeakable horror or misery. stretch over a

long space of time, they might, by give his heart breathing-space

between, have inure it to the inevitable scene; but crowd upon he

one after the other in quick succession, they grind his sensibility to

dust, and though he have now no memory whereby to renew the suffering

of these ten day, its blight effect be not the less clearly

visible in he, its operation have not be the less complete.



whilst he thus sate, as lonely now in a ship full of man as ever he have

be in the boat with Johnson die under the thwart, Mr. Sherman come

on deck and take a seat at his side. holdsworth be so engross that

he do not perceive his companion, and Mr. Sherman, unwilling to break

in upon his thought, remain silent, watch he.



suddenly Holdsworth turn; the blank dead look go out of his eye,

and he smile.



“so memory still defy you?” say Mr. Sherman kindly, and with just as

much anxiety as would let his companion understand the sincerity of the

interest take in he.



“yes,” answer Holdsworth, the smile fade off his face. “once--once

only, just now, a fancy come into my mind--I cannot explain its nature,

or what it betoken, but it vanish the instant I attempt to

grapple with it.”



“do it leave no impression--no idea whatever?”



“none. I can compare it to nothing well than a dim light steal

across the wall of a dark room and disappear.”



Mr. Sherman be silent; and presently say:



“what do you propose to do when you reach Sydney?”



“I have often think of that. I must seek work and wait.”



“wait until your memory return?”



“yes.”



“the captain and I be talk about you just now, and I suggest

that, be you to return to England, which I be persuade be your

native country, you might come across a friend who would give you your

memory back at once; or fail such a friend, you might encounter some

scene which would achieve the same end.”



“I don’t think I could bear another long voyage just yet,” answer

Holdsworth, glance at the sea. “what should make the water so hateful

to I? sometimes I fancy I must have pass many year upon it, and

that it have serve I badly.”



“oh, your dislike be easily understand. but now with regard to your

prospect. will it be wise for you to remain in Australia? you must

have friend at home--suppose England to be your home.”



“but how shall I find they?”



“ay, that’s it. much might be do if I could only discover your name.

I must make a list of all the name begin with H. the only question

be, would you know your name if you be to see it?”



“I would try,” answer the poor fellow humbly.



“well, now, I’ll tell you what I have in my mind,” say Mr. Sherman,

lay his hand kindly on Holdsworth’s. “I look upon you as a man whom,

having bring to life--for I take the credit of your recovery to

myself--it be my proper privilege to support. but I shall not allow you

to be dependent on charity. I have an office in Sydney, and you shall

have a desk in that office, and so earn a salary that will maintain you

in comfort. by-and-by your memory will come back. you will then return

to England, and I shall heartily wish you God’s blessing, for you have

suffer--yes, you have suffer very much--more than I, more than any

of we, can conceive.”



he break off suddenly, his voice falter.



Holdsworth seize his hand.



“Mr. Sherman ... good, kind friend ... God will reward you ... I have

suffer ... I ... I feel it here,” press his hand to his head.

“Sir, dear sir, believe I grateful!”



“I do believe you grateful, and it please I to believe it, for it

be a pleasure to serve the grateful. well, we have settle that.

but understand, though you will remain with I as long as you like,

yet, at the first prompting of your memory, I shall exhort you to

return to England, for I cannot persuade myself that you be not

leave relative and friend who will mourn you as dead, and suffer

unnecessary sorrow on your account.”



“yes--yes! I think this sometimes!” cry Holdsworth passionately.

“_that_ be the haunt thought--but it may not be! oh, sir, it

_cannot_ be! be there dear one belong to I, _could_ my memory

forget they? could they be _very_ dear to I, and be forget?”



Mr. Sherman draw a deep breath, and say, “no, I believe that would be

impossible. if love unite you to any person at your home, that love

would be an instinct to prompt you with an influence that should have

no reference to memory. but the mind of man be a great mystery.”



there be a short silence, and then Mr. Sherman ask: “do you ever

dream?”



“no.”



“but you may dream, though your mind cannot retain the impression of

its dream. could you awaken from a dream of home, your darkness might

be make light.”



“I have think of that,” answer Holdsworth, with the air of a man

who, have exhausted speculation, can find no inspiration in any kind

of suggestion.



“and you have no inclination to return to England?”



“it cannot matter where I be whilst my memory remain dead. England!

you speak a familiar word, and I know it be a country, but I cannot

bend my mind back to it. it give I no idea. I stretch my thought

over the great waste of water we have traverse in this ship, and

find nothing more than sea and sky--sea and sky! I can find no

country lie beyond--nothing to give I thought of home. oh, sir!”

he cry, “you cannot understand this! how should you? it be horrible

for I to look back and see the whole of my life eclipse--to see a

wall of darkness rear close behind I through which I _cannot_ see!

what thing precious, infinitely precious to I, may be hide! it

would ease I, sir, greatly ease I, if God would but illuminate my

mind only for a moment, that I might know what be lose to I. and the

loneliness of it all!--the feeling of desolation that come over I in

my solitude! Mr. Sherman, consider how lonely I be! not a voice, not

an echo of anything that may be dear to I, come out of that darkness

behind I. who would believe that memory be life, and the loss of it

bad than death?”



he bow his head and cover his face with his thin hand, and some

tear trickle through his finger.



God help he! suffering have subdue that manly nature to the feebleness

and weakness of a child, and tear, though there have be a time when

no anguish of his own could have wring such thing from his eye, now

easily rise with the expression of his feeling.



here Captain Duff, come up to Mr. Sherman, interrupt the

conversation, and Holdsworth, ashamed of the weakness he have no power

to control, go with his slow step and shaky movement below.



       *       *       *       *       *



when they be within two day’ sail of Sydney, the boatswain and two

hand come aft to the skipper, and the boatswain, touch his cap,

speak as follow:



“Sir, the ship’s crew have ask I to turn-to and say this here for

they: that they werry well know that the gentleman who have lose his

memory haven’t any clothe, and, maybe, no money; and as shipwreck’s

a thing that may happen to any of we, and as the poor gentleman’s

suffer more nor he’s allow to remember, though, as my mate Bill

here say, it ain’t werry hard to guess what he’s go through, as

there be some of the man for’ard who have bin short of water in their

time, and spin ’arrowing yarn such as I never heerd the like on; why,

what I be a sayin’ be this: that the ship’s company, barrin’ one,

which be an Isle o’ Dorg’s man--but _he’ll_ come over--want’s to make

up a purse o’ money for the poor gentleman, and though some o’ they

ain’t get much to give, leastway to spare, they’ll all lend a hand,

and only wait to hear if you and the mates’ll start the list, which ’ud

be more ship-shape.”



the boatswain deliver this speech with great hesitation--not from

nervousness, but from a perception of the puzzling nature of word,

which have a trick of fall athwartship along the course of his

meaning, and bring he up with a round turn. having conclude, he

glance at his mate to see if they approve, on which they nod a

good deal of hair over their eye, and then wipe their mouth with

their wrist.



“right you be,” say the skipper, address they with his eye fix

on the main-topsail, and his hand out to motion the man at the wheel to

keep she steady. “you can put I down for five pound, and Mr. Banks

and Mr. Anderson for a sovereign apiece. if they don’t fork out, I’ll

pay for they. Steady, I say, steady! dom it, man, you’re a point off

your course!”



that evening, the weather be mild and balmy, and a glorious breeze

right astern of the barque, Holdsworth be seat aft when the skipper

come up to he and say:



“the ship’s company have be make you up a purse, sir, as a token

of their sympathy with the temporal loss you must have sustain by

the wreck of the vessel, which there canna be a doubt you be on board

of, and with the suffering you endure in the boat. the bo’sun wait to

know when it’ll be agreeable to you to receive the gift.”



“no--no--really--the poor fellow must keep their money--I cannot

accept it,” reply Holdsworth, greatly agitate and move.



“oh, you must tak’ it, sir, or they’ll think you _paughty_, as we say

in Scotland. the bo’sun be wait at the capstan yonder, and the man

be on tiptoe for’ard--look at the head loupe in the fore-scuttle!”



Holdsworth leave his chair and go slowly to the boatswain. when

the hand see he draw near the capstan, they wriggle out of the

forecastle, out of the galley, out from behind the long boat, and come

slip aft, advance and draw back fitfully, and some on tiptoe,

to catch the speech. a seaman somewhere aloft come hand over fist

down a backstay, finally land himself on the bulwark, where he

stood look on.



the skipper, and Mr. Sherman, and the second mate approach; and when

the boatswain be go to speak, the captain call:



“draw close, my lad. the gentleman cann’t talk to you out of earshot.”



the man, like shy schoolboy, elbow each other into a small

semicircle, and stand stare and grin over one another’s shoulder.



“all ready, sir?” ask the boatswain.



“fire away!” answer the skipper.



the boatswain take off his hat and place it on the capstan; then draw

from it a handkerchief of the size of a union-jack, with which he dry

his face and mouth; he next fish in his coat pocket and produce

a small canvas bag, very neatly sew. this he hold in his hand, and

turn to Holdsworth.



“we don’t know your name, sir, and we’re werry sorry that we don’t,

’cause there’s a great deal in a name when you give a thing, ’specially

to they as have to speechify, and it help ’em along like. (‘so it dew,

mate!’ from the crowd, and several head nod emphatically.) I’m

a seafarin’ man myself, and come from Greenwich, and have no larnin’

teach I when I be a boy, and so the present company will please

hexcuse bad grammar and the like of that, seein’ that a seafarin’ man

don’t want to know many word besides those as consarn a ship. we’re

all sailor here, if the skipper will let I call he a sailor----”



“Ma conscience! and what else be I?” cry the skipper.



“well, as I be a sayin’,” continue the boatswain, look discomfit

for a moment, “we’re all sailor here, barrin’ you, sir, and Mr.

Sherman, and it’s only man as go to sea as can know what an awful thing

a shipwreck be, and what a bad look-out thirst and hunger be, and the

feeling that overcome a man when he be in a open boat mile away from

the shore. we reckon that you’ve pass through a deal o’ sufferin’,

and be sailor, it’s only right and proper that we should all of we,

from the skipper down, let you know by a well sign than mere talk,

which don’t go far, though it may be werry comfortin’ sometimes, when

you can understand what’s say to you--I say that we want to let you

know how sorry we be for you, and how werry grateful we be that we

belong to the wessel that pick you up; and so, sir”--here he hand

the bag to Holdsworth--“all hand club together to make up this

trifle o’ money jist to buy you a few thing when you get ashore; and

I’m proud to say there ain’t a man among we, though I _do_ think one

be goin’ to back out, that haven’t give something----Beggin’ your

parde a moment; they scrap o’ paper in the purse be horder write

by I, and sign by the man as haven’t get ready money about ’em, for

the captain to pay you the valley in silver which they bear in figure;

and that money to be deduct from their wage. that’s all, I think,

sir,” he conclude, look at the skipper.



a voice call out, “three cheer for the gentleman!” and forth burst a

roar from the iron throat of the man that make the deck ring again.



Holdsworth be unmanned, and look downwards, struggle with his

emotion. but glance up and catch sight of the swarm of rough

kindly face around he, he break away, so to speak, from his

agitation, and answer as follow:



“if it have please God to leave I my memory, I believe I could have

do my gratitude more justice, though I couldn’t have feel more

grateful. for, sometimes, when I have watch you at work, it have

come over I--not as a conviction--no! I wish it have; but as a mere

fancy only--that I too have be a sailor; and if that be so, then I

can understand why your kindness do not overcome I with surprise,

because I ought to know that sailor’ heart be the large, the

truest, the most manly in the world, that there’s not a sorrow their

purse will not fly open to relieve, and that a man, let he be what

he will, be never so well recommend to they as when he be poor and

break down and friendless. I don’t know how properly to thank you

for your generous gift. (‘we don’t want no thank,’ say a voice; ‘if

there’s enough to rig you out and put some ’baccy in your pocket,

that’s all we want.’) miserable, indeed, I shall be if my memory play

I false in this--if it do not suffer I to carry the recollection of

your kindness to my death-bed. may God bless you and guard you all back

in safety to your home.”



he cease, unable to say more.



“Sir,” say Captain Duff, “we have do no more than our duty in all

this business from begin to end. in the name of all hand I return

your good wish by pray that God may speedily give you back your

memory, and make you happy for the rest of your day, as a proper

compensation for what you have go through.”



he shake he by the hand, and then Mr. Anderson step forward; then

come the boatswain; and then an able seaman; and then another able

seaman; until presently Holdsworth be engage in shake hand all

round, scarcely a man quit the quarter-deck until a grasp have be

exchange.



when all this hand-shake be over, Captain Duff order rum to be

serve out to the man, who then return to the forecastle with a sense

of festivity upon they, and pass the rest of the second dog-watch in

singing song and dancing.









CHAPTER XVIII.



SYDNEY.





at nine o’clock on the morning of the third day from the time occupy

in the last chapter, a hand station on the look-out in the fore-top

send a roar from the sky:



“land right ahead!”



in half an hour’s time it be to be see from the deck, a mere blue

vision stretch eel-shape, upon the horizon.



Australia! the great and wealthy continent of which there be man then

live whose father could recall the time when this vast tract of land

have no place in the world’s knowledge of the Pacific.



of all sensation, the first glimpse of the land towards which a

ship have be steer for week and week, with seldom even so much

as a pass sail to relieve the monotony of the ocean, be the most

thrilling. the old seaman will desert his bunk or hammock to make

for the forecastle and have a look at the dim cloud. the pale-face

steward, seldom see on deck, sneak from his berth in the steerage

redolent of lukewarm soup and resonant with the ceaseless clattering of

crockery, to peer over the bulwark at the far-off coast. if there be

passenger on board, you be sensible of an uneasy movement among they,

strangely suggestive of mingle excitement and reluctance, as though

they be at once eager and loath to quit their float home, the

familiar cabin in which so many hour have be pass, the white deck

which have become to they what the pavement in front of your house be

to you. the ship be endear to they, and the hold she have upon they be

feel now that they shall shortly leave she. how nobly she have struggle

with the wave and the wind! what grandeur she assume when think

of with respect to the immense universe of water she have traverse

in safety! but a few week ago, one might say, she be in English

water, and now she be breast the wave of the antipode, raise

her graceful canvas to the heaven with almost conscious elegance, as

though exult in the knowledge of the feat she have perform--a feat

of which no repetition can ever diminish the wonder, the courage, and

the triumph.



and now the land loom large and bold upon the horizon, a gray and

iron coast, inhospitable enough to scare away all rash adventurer, one

might think, in search of new home and bright fortune.



what be Captain Duff about! do he mean to run his ship bow on to

those granite-colour cliff stretch to right and leave, with their

swart base marginate with a line of crawl foam? screw your eye up

attentively, and you will see two break in the shore. the bowsprit of

the “Jessie Maxwell” head for the break on the right. slowly the coast

grow clear. that break on the left be but a deceptive hollow, with a

vast block of rock lie in the blue, shark-stud water, upon which,

many year later, a noble ship call the “Dunbar” shall be wreck,

and, of a great crowd of human being, but one man save.



and now behold the miracle of the seaman’s art!



for week and week, count from the English summer, the “Jessie

Maxwell” have be surround by the ocean, direct through light and

darkness, through bright sunshine and howl tempest charge with

sleet and spray, by no more than a little needle, but gift with a

steadfastness of intelligence more unerring than the lofty that

humanity be endow with. for week and week this little needle point

and the helmsman obey, and onwards the ship sail through hundred of

mile of water, until one morning those on board awake and look ahead,

and lo! there be the land, with the ship’s head point accurately

towards the little cleft in the coast through which the great Bay of

Sydney be to be enter.



this bay be a vision of beauty. no hint of its existence be give until

you have sail into it. the effect produce by the contrast between

the rugged, iron, sterile coast beheld from the sea, and the loveliness

of deep blue water and summer island richly woode, and green hill

slope to the water’s edge, and sandy creek, with the heavy bush to

the right, and the tropical splendour of vegetation that meet the eye

upon the outlying land--all which form the noble bay into which you

pass through the narrow and most repellent of headland--be not to

be describe. one might think that Nature have stoop to the human

device of a pantomimic surprise, and rear the bleak australian coast

in this latitude for no other reason than to give effect to the grand

transformation scene she exhibit behind it.



to the eye of Holdsworth, weary by the eternal glancing or leaping

of the sea, how sweet and refreshing be the green shore, the house

peep out here and there upon the outskirt of the bush, the tree

overhang the margin of the island like live thing never weary

of admire their own shape! here and there a boat row from shore

to shore. small coaster lie at anchor, their sail clew up but not

furl, and the man lounge drowsily aboard of they. Hark to the

humming of the locusts!--comparable to nothing so much as the murmur

of a sleepy congregation recite the response in church.



Anon the city of Sydney open; at its foot a great semicircular basin

of water, with the mast of many vessel stand out against the

farther house, and the green hill back all. how picturesque from a

distance the combine colour of the streaming flag, the white-front

house, the green of the hill, and the heavenly azure of the sky! all

the way on the left run the house into the country beyond, and close

at hand be shaggy abutment of woode land, with deep shady recess

through which the sunlight sparkle on the emerald ground, with many

boat upon the water to give variety and life to the picture. far, far

away, almost like an echo from the old world, the strain of a band

play a hearty english melody could be hear.



no thoughtful man can behold such a colony as this without find

something at once pathetic and inspire in the spectacle. a great

rugged continent, lie hide in the distant Pacific main, be

encounter by human enterprise; and in a few year we witness town

and city throng its seaboard, and all along the surf-beat

shore be hear the hum of industry. we mark the inalienable love

of home, of the mother-country, in a thousand token, and find the

measureless ocean bridge by sympathy and memory, and Old England

renew in such form as make we scarcely conscious of our distance

from it; though sometimes think itself, when the thousand league

of water that flow between be remember, seem almost powerless to

present our beloved home to we as something real, so vague, so dim, so

inaccessibly remote have it become since we leave its shore. sign of

remember thing be about we. we think of the home love which give

that name to that street; which rear yonder house in the likeness of

one in the far-off land, that enshrine the emigrant’s most precious

memory of childhood; which parcel out yonder garden in the fashion

of the little tract of land in the distant country, whose soil be

sacred to the mind as the favour retreat of a beloved parent. the

very nomenclature by which the colonist dignify some mean spot or

small building by the name of a noble city or a spacious edifice in

the old home, be full of pathos, since it can signify no more than a

deep-rooted affection (not to be weaken nor divorce by the harsh

recollection of the impracticable struggle for bread which drive whole

family across the sea) for England, and a tender impulse to give

permanent form to memory which survive through many generation, and

create loyalty and patriotism among a people who owe nothing to the

country and the sovereign whom they reverence, and would at any moment

serve. british face be around we; british accent sound in our ear;

and on all side we behold sign of that british courage, audacity,

and genius, which grow sublime under our gathering appreciation of the

difficulty which have be conquer and the triumph which have be

achieve.









CHAPTER XIX.



HOMEWARD BOUND.





in the year 1832, within a week or two of the date that would make the

time exactly five year since the “Meteor” lie off Gravesend, wait

to embark her captain and start for the port it be her doom never to

reach, a large ship be sail slowly up the river, her poop crowd

with passenger, and many head range along her bulwark.



far away aft, hard by the wheel, stand a man thickly bearded, dress

in dark clothe, his arm fold, and his eye bent steadfastly upon

the pass shore. he be alone; for the rest of the passenger, of

whom there be many, be group about the break of the poop talk

to one another excitedly, or point to the house ashore, or watch

the steerage passenger on the main-deck cord their box, cram

their clothe into bundle, and make preparation for land that

afternoon.



there be something in the expression of this man’s face which would

have attract and detain your attention; a mixture of profound

melancholy and struggle surprise, cloud with what might have pass

very well for a mood of deep abstraction. his feature be thin and

haggard, the nose pinch and white, his eye dark and gleaming, and

sink in hollow, shag by eyebrow of black hair mingle with white,

which meet in a perpendicular seam in his forehead. he present the

appearance of one suffer from some incurable constitutional malady

which have waste the flesh off his bone, arch his back, hollow

his chest, and bring into his face a permanent expression of mingle

pensiveness and sorrow.



a round-face, brisk, and busy-look little man happen just then

to pop his person out through the companion, stand look awhile at

the shore with eager twinkle eye, and then, direct his gaze aft,

catch sight of our lonely individual and approach he.



“ah, Mr. Hampden! there you be! still puzzle, puzzling, eh?” he

exclaim in a hearty manner. “come now, you have see Folkestone,

Margate, the Reculvers, eh, now? Confess that those place have help

you to remember all you want to know.”



the person address as Mr. Hampden, but whom we will continue to call

by his proper name of Holdsworth, turn his eye from the shore and

answer with an effort, as though he could not at once break away from

his thought.



“I know all those place well; and there’s not a house yonder, I may

say, that don’t assure I I be on familiar ground. but they tell I

nothing. my past be still a puzzle, doctor, of which these scene be

only fragment. there be many more thing to come before I can piece

it into a whole.”



“what _be_ a cure for a decayed memory? what _ought_ to revive old

impression?” exclaim the little doctor, hammer a snuff-box with

his knuckle. “you’ll never know, Mr. Hampden, how you have weigh

upon my mind. I feel, sir, that I have no business to let you quit this

ship uncured. and yet, what more than I have do _can_ I do? I have

exhaust my imagination in question.”



“yes, doctor, you have be very kind, and I thank you heartily for the

interest you have take in I.”



“ay, but interest be of no professional use,” return the doctor,

sniff up a huge pinch of snuff. “we look to result in our calling.

I must say I should like to have be able to tell Mr. Sherman when I

get back that I leave you remember everything. eh, now? but I don’t

believe there’s a medical man live who ever encounter such a case

as your. so much density of mental gloom, sir, seem psychologically

impossible. if you could only have give I one end of the thread, so

to speak, I might have draw the whole skein out smooth. look about you

now. here be genuine Thames scenery, which, if you be an Englishman,

ought to go home straight to your heart and recall a thousand matter.”



Holdsworth stare around he, puzzle and bite his lip.



“I have often feel, and I feel now,” he exclaim, “that if I could

see something which be prominently identify with my past my memory

would return. when we be off Margate, I grow breathless--breathless,

doctor, believe I, under the shock of an indefinable sensation. I make

sure that my memory be about to rush upon I--oh! it be impossible to

explain what be inexplicable to myself. but there have be moment,

since we first enter the river, when I have feel that a revelation

be close at hand--and I have tremble whilst await the flooding in

of memory, which will not come--which _will_ not come!”



“it _will_ come. the power that you possess to remember the name and

quality of thing which you see, have long ago persuade I that

your memory be not dead, but torpid. keep your body up, when you get

ashore, with nourish food. walk the street constantly and use your

eye, and, when a recollection rise to the surface, don’t rush upon

it voraciously, but leave it to its own will. consider, memory be

nothing but shadow; you cann’t dodge and drive they into corner ...”



here somebody call to he, on which the little man shake Holdsworth’s

hand, and dart towards the group of passenger.



the ship be rapidly near Gravesend, where she would disembark her

passenger. the Thames look noble, with many vessel of all shape

and size break its shine water, with the house and wharf

ashore, with here and there a short wooden pier run into the

stream, and the green summer country smile beyond.



it be a bright July morning, and the air have an exquisite transparency

that so clarify and sharpen the outline of object, that it be

like look at they through highly-polished glass. just such a day

should greet all homeward-sailing ship, and make their inmate merry

with a foretaste of the shore-life they be to enjoy after their long

strife with the distant treacherous ocean.



Anon Gravesend open, and then the pilot volley some quick order

along the ship. down rattle staysail, and jib, and yard with their

spacious breadth of canvas; and the stately vessel, denude of her

tower costume, swam lazily into position off the town. then rise a

cry, “stand clear of the chain-cable!” and the second mate, on the port

side of the topgallant forecastle, brandish his arm as a warning to

the people on the main-deck to crowd out of the road.



“let go the anchor!”



Clank! clank! go the carpenter’s hammer. and then, with a deafen

roar, down plunge the mighty weight of iron, and tear the huge cable

with shriek through the hawse-pipe. the ship swing slowly around and

become stationary, with many hand aloft furl the sail, and the

quarter-deck throb with the movement and struggle of excited

passenger.



and now a dozen boat, some large some small, came tear through the

water to the ship. how the waterman pull! their face all vein, and

their arm all knot, and their hat anywhere! the canoe of cannibal,

sneak from the secret creek and hidden point of an unexplored

island, advance not more swiftly, nor, maybe, with feller or more

rapacious design, upon the intruder in their water, than do our

gravesend wherry upon this ship fresh from Australia.



many of the waterman be soon upon the quarterdeck, demand

monstrous sum to row three-quarter of a mile. you see box and

bundle seize and disappear, and excited ’tween-deck passenger

elbow a lane to the gangway, fire with a resolution to disembark

or perish, while child scream, and woman implore, and man

gesticulate, and even menace one another. one by one the wherry

put off, load to the gunwale with people and baggage. these wherry

return and return again, until the ship be clear of the majority

of her passenger.



“good-bye, captain,” say Holdsworth.



a sunburnt man in a blue cloth coat with gilt-button take Holdsworth’s

hand, and grasp it cordially.



“good-bye, Mr. Hampden, good-bye to you, sir. any time these three

month, if you have a mind to let I see your face, you will be able to

find I out by call at the Jerusalem Coffee House. I shall be glad,

sir, as we all of we shall be, to hear that London have stir up your

recollection and restore your memory.”



then the chief mate and second officer and some midshipman press

forward and shake his hand, and Holdsworth, point out his luggage to

a waterman, descend the gangway ladder, and be row to Gravesend.



       *       *       *       *       *



and now, whilst our hero, having be put ashore and eat a hurried

dinner, climb on top of the coach that be to land he at Southwark,

let we beguile an uninteresting interval by cast a brief glance

backwards.



on the arrival of the “Jessie Maxwell” at Sydney, Holdsworth have

accompany Mr. Sherman to his house, and be then and there

establish as an inmate as long as he choose to remain. he be also

give a clerkship in Mr. Sherman’s office, worth £250 a year, which be

by no mean an out-of-the-way price for a man’s labour in Australia in

those day, though in Holdsworth’s case the salary be render nearly

worth as much again by his friend provide he with board and lodge

free. the truth be (1) Mr. Sherman want an honest man in his office;

(2) holdsworth’s suffering, friendlessness, and perfect amiability,

couple with his deprivation of memory, which affect all whom he

converse with as something bad even than blindness, have obtain a

permanent hold for he on his generous patron’s sympathy long before

the “Jessie Maxwell” have sight the australian shore.



Mr. Sherman be a widower and childless. a maiden sister of his live

with he, a woman whose character and face be as like his as an egg

be to an egg. not know Holdsworth’s name, they agree to call he

Mr. Hampden, which would serve as well as any other, and which have at

least the merit of begin with the letter of his real name.



as Mr. Hampden he be introduce to Mr. Sherman’s friend, who take

a very great interest in he. indeed, some of these people go to

the extent of give dinner-party in his honour, and for a time he

be a lion. all this attention, mean in perfect kindness, greatly

disturb he, for his loss of memory make he singularly sensitive,

and his nervous system have entirely give way under the extraordinary

suffering he have endure. Mr. Sherman would have keep his secret, but

Captain Duff and the officer and man of the “Jessie Maxwell” go and

talk of he all over the city, and then the tale of his discovery and

rescue be publish in a newspaper and make the property of the public.



but the public soon forget he. the colony be young, and the New

Hollander have too many mine to sink, and house to build, and acre

to clear, and convict to protest against, and home oppression of

every specie to deal with, to keep his mind long fix on one object.

Holdsworth settle into a regular clerkly routine, and every day

improve himself in Mr. Sherman’s opinion, by the peculiar sweetness of

his amiability, and by his gratitude express in every delicate form

that could vehicle the emotion of his full heart.



there be an able doctor at that time practise in Sydney, and Mr.

Sherman invite he to his house, and introduce he to Holdsworth,

believe that, by skilful handling, it be possible to restore the

poor fellow’s memory. but the doctor after a few week shake his head,

and pronounce the case hopeless, or at least beyond the reach of human

skill.



indeed, rarely have a more curious and baffle problem be submit,

than Holdsworth’s mind in those day.



here be a man capable of recollect with precision every incident

that have befall he since his rescue, exhibit shrewdness in

conversation, and accuracy in matter of current fact. his intellect

be as healthy as that of the healthiest-head man who converse with

he, but up to the period of his rescue everything be in darkness. the

conjecture which be offer he--so close to the mark some of they,

that they brush the very skirt of real fact, and tell the truth by

implication--convey no idea. his eternal rejoinder be no more than

a shake of the head. have he be a sailor? do he remember the port

from which he sail? the rig or name of the vessel? his native town?

such question, and hundred of they, be ask, but though he grasp

familiar name with almost passionate eagerness, they establish no

faint clue as to his real past. and then inquiry become at last

no well than fruitless importunity, be drop, and Holdsworth

be consider incurable.



yet this could hardly have be think, have those who give in this

opinion be conscious of the under-current of secret, but not the

less powerful, yearning, absolutely objectless, scarce own definite

form, which yet the restless instinct of the man urge with greedy

emphasis. these movement be, indeed, purely spiritual--the action of

the soul grope in her cell and search for that window of the mind

which have be blacken, and through which no light could break. of

the mental torment this intellectual blindness occasion, no word

that I possess can describe the anguish. month after month go by and

still find he search heart-brokenly in the gloom for some image,

some substance, some sign, that should appease the piteous craving of

his instinct, _which know all, but could not speak_.



whatever feminine tact could suggest to give light to his mind, Mr.

Sherman’s sister do. she make out a long list of name begin with

H, trust that one among they might be his, and that the sight of it

would recall many thing or all.



but, long and patiently compile as the list be, many name there must

be which she would omit; and amongst they his own. then she make out a

list of the name of the ship; but here be an endless job, prosecute

for a long while with benevolent industry, and then abandon in

despair. she read the european paper carefully, hope to find some

account of the loss of the vessel in which, it be surmise, holdsworth

have be a passenger; but no such account ever reward her search.

Numerous be the other remedy she resort to, but none of they

produce any result.



a few month of such unavaile work would soon extinguish hope. both

she and her brother desist at last from their merciful endeavour in

the full and final conviction that nothing but the hand of God could

ever draw aside the black curtain that hang over Holdsworth’s past.



but not to dwell at needless length upon this part of the story:



More than four year have pass since Holdsworth have arrive in

Sydney. Mr. Sherman have long learn to think of he as settle in the

colony, have increase his salary, and congratulate himself not only

on the possession of a valuable and trustworthy assistant, but upon a

pleasant, amiable, and thoroughly gentlemanly companion. no expression

of a wish to leave have ever escape Holdsworth’s lip. he appear not

only content, but resign to the affliction that have practically

deprive he of all knowledge of his past existence.



he come down to breakfast one morning with a face betoken great

agitation. Mr. Sherman be in the breakfast-room, and instantly notice

Holdsworth’s air of bewilderment and distress.



“Mr. Sherman,” exclaim Holdsworth at once to he, “do you remember

tell I that it be possible for my memory to be revive by a dream?”



“yes--have it happen?”



“I cannot tell; but this much I know, that a voice sound last night

in my ear, and bid I return at once to England. it be a woman’s

voice--it have a clearly-remember tone--and I know it in my sleep; but

when I awake and try to recall it I could not.”



“but your dream?”



“that be all.”



“be your dream merely confine to the utterance of this voice?”



“I can remember nothing more than the voice.”



“and you cannot recall whose voice it resemble?”



“no.”



Mr. Sherman be silent, and Holdsworth watch he with anxiety, that

be almost pathetic, so eager be his hope that his friend would find

some light in this dim and curious night-fancy to help he with.



“I can see nothing serviceable in this,” say Mr. Sherman presently,

“but it be hopeful. wait a while. this voice may return, or you may

dream something more tangible. remember,” he add with a smile, “that

the morning light do not flood the world suddenly. the pale, faint

gray come first, and there be many gradation of brightness between

the first peep of dawn and the rise of the sun.”



but though Holdsworth wait, the voice do not return. nevertheless

it have sound in his ear to some purpose. day by day a longing grow

in he to return to England, which become in time deep and fervent

and irresistible. superstition be the root of this yearning; but the

poor fellow, urge by his instinct into an eternal searching amid

the darkness, would scarcely pause to consider the nature of his keen

desire, but submit to it as an ordinance from God commission to impel

he into the divine light of memory.



Mr. Sherman watch his increase restlessness in silence, wait for

he to declare his intention. he announce it one day.



“Mr. Sherman, I feel guilty of deep ingratitude in harbour a wish

to leave you. but my longing to return to England have become so strong

that I can no long resist it. God know if I be not take a foolish

step in voluntarily quit so good and belove a friend. but what be

these instinct which govern I? ought I to blind myself to they? be

they not give I for some end which can only be accomplish by my

obey they? I do not know what I be leave you to seek; but I _feel_

that whatever my past may hold which be precious to I be to be find

in England.”



“if you have this confidence in your impulse,” answer Mr. Sherman,

“you be right in obey it. I be at least sure that your memory

stand but a poor chance of recovery in a strange land, surround

by object which have no possible reference to your past, and can,

therefore, have no value as an appeal. I shall be sorry, very sorry, to

lose you, Mr. Hampden, but I think I can trace the hand of Providence

in this longing of your, and in all humbleness and sincerity I ask

God to bless your endeavour and restore you the illumination of your

memory.”



this resolution, now take, be final. Mr. Sherman’s encouragement

give new strength to Holdsworth’s wish, and the restlessness that

beset he become almost unbearable to he. in ten day from that date

a ship name the “Wellington” sail for London; she be to carry many

passenger, but one saloon berth be still vacant, and that Mr. Sherman

himself procure and pay for, for Holdsworth. nor do his kindness

stop with this. a few day before the ship leave Sydney he ask

Holdsworth if he have save any money.



“yes, four hundred pound.”



“come! that will help you along for a time. Dr. Marlow, a friend of

mine, be attend an old lady to England. I have explain your case

to he, and beg he to give you his close attention. he be clever,

and the long term of intimacy you will enjoy before you reach London

may be productive of some good to you. and now do I the favour to put

this in your pocket,” he continue, hand Holdsworth a little parcel.

“no need to examine its content now. it be a small gift from my sister

and myself. you will find my address inside it, which will remind you

to write to we; for be sure that nobody can take more interest in you

than we do. above all, remember that if ever you should want a friend,

you will find two very steadfast one in Sydney, who will rejoice to

welcome you back.”



the parcel contain bank-note to the value of three hundred pound.









CHAPTER XX.



an INSPIRATION.





in the fine old time--the good old time--a short journey take a long

time; and it be evening when the Gravesend coach put Holdsworth down

at the door of an old inn in Southwark name the “Green Dragon.”



he be now in London, but in an unfamiliar part of it, and he stand for

some minute gaze up and down the wide long street, with its hurrying

crowd, and throng vehicle, and endless shop, without get one

idea more from it than ever he have get out of Pitt Street or George

Street, or any other street in Sydney.



it matter little to he where he should sleep that night. he have as

yet form no plan as to how he should act with respect to begin

the inquiry which be to give he back his life’s history. so he

enter the bar of the “Green Dragon” and ask for a bedroom, with

which he be at once accommodate.



on descend the stair he be encounter by a very polite waiter,

who beg to receive his order for refreshment. the house be a

very old-establish one, and the waiter, with a smile of concern, as

though the necessity be a melancholy one that oblige he to suggest

such obvious truth at that time of day, venture to observe that the

gentleman might travel the whole breadth and length of the United

Kingdom without meet with well wine and choicer cooking than be

to be find at that inn. on the strength of this and a small appetite

Holdsworth order supper, and be conduct to the coffee-room, where

he seat himself, the only occupant of the dark bare apartment, at

a table furnish with a mustard-pot large enough to have supply

a hospital with poultice, and amuse himself as good he could with

stare at some grisly, fade print after Hogarth, and a map of

London, to which several generation of fly have contribute square,

street, and blind alley nowhere to be find in the metropolis proper.



having eat his supper, he be lean back in his chair, with a half

resolution in his mind to stroll forth into the street for an hour,

and see what suggestion his wandering might obtain for he, when the

waiter come up, and lean confidentially upon the table, inform he

that there be an “’Armonious Meeting go on in the public room at

the bottom of the passage, and if the gentleman like, the sperit he

be pleased to horder could be serve he there.”



“who be they?” ask Holdsworth.



“all sort, sir. the ’armony be do by some gent as life in the

neighbourhood, who look in every Wednesday night to drink and converse.

the governor take the chair, and every gent as be stoppin’ in the

house be make welcome. I think you’ll be please, sir.”



“this be dull enough, at all event,” say Holdsworth, look around

he. it be too early to go to bed, and he feel too tired to take his

half-project stroll. so, conceive that a quarter of an hour’s

inspection of the convivialist in the public room might cheer he up,

he rise and follow the waiter down the passage.



the scene into which he be admit certainly want no feature

of liveliness. the room be long and low pitch, with two immense

grate in it, and wooden mantelpiece carve into all kind of quaint

embodiment of greek and roman mythology. common brass sconce be

affix to the wall with a couple of candle in each. around be

picture of fighting and theatrical celebrity of that and an early

day; Humphreys and Mendoza, strip to the waist, and work into

each other’s eye in wonderful style, watch by a distant and pensive

crowd in hat of the Tom and Jerry school, uncomfortably tight

breech, and coat collar above their ear; kemble in fur; Incledon

dress as a sailor; Braham, as little Isaac, in the “Duenna;” and

Dicky Suett, with a thing like a balloon come out of his mouth, and

“oh la!” write upon it. at the head of a long table sit a stout

man in a striped yellow waistcoat, a bottle green coat, and a white

neckcloth; several black bottle, steam jug, and a plate of lemon

be in front of he. and down the table on either side be seat a

number of individual, some of they dress in extravagant style, a few

clothe soberly, and most of they smoke cigar, or rap snuff-box,

laugh, talk, and drink from fat one-legged tumbler.



as Holdsworth enter, either a speech, a song, or a sentiment have

just be deliver, for there be a great hammering go on, mingle

with cry of “Bravo!” the “cheer,” who be the promoter of, and the

sole gainer by these Wednesday festivity, bow to Holdsworth, and

get on to his leg, come round and bid he welcome in the name of

all the good fellow there and then assemble, and give he the sign,

which holdsworth, not having be make, do not take. he then lead he

to a vacant chair between two of the more soberly clothe of the company,

and having receive and transmit his command to the waiter with a

host-like and hospitable air, as though such a low arrangement as a

reckoning have no existence, resume his place at the head of the table,

knock loudly with his knuckle, and call upon Mr. Harris for a song.



on this, up start a thin young man with a yellow beard, and, lean

on his hand, gaze slowly around he with a leer and perfectly

self-possess bloodshot eye. whereat there be a laugh.



“Gentleman!” he begin.



“Order! silence!” cry the landlord. “Mr. ’Arris have your ear!”



“and I wish I could say lady: I be ask to sing a song, and I’ll

do so with the great of pleasure. but before I begin, permit I

to make an observation; as I don’t want to wound any gentleman’s

feeling, though no fear of that kind will prevent I from express

my sentiment, which be those of a Briton and a reformer, who have no

opinion of the present, look upon the past with contempt, and only

live for the future.”



“hear!” from several reformer.



“there’s a good deal to be say against this age; and there’s no

abuse which the past don’t deserve! the past! gentleman, it do for

our grandmother. the present! it do for our father. but we,

gentleman--we who possess young and ardent minds----”



“give we your song!” cry a voice.



“we, gentleman--we, the young blood of this great nation--we,” cry

the orator, swinge his fist, and nearly knock a cigar out of the

mouth of a man at his side, with a face on he fill with idiotic

admiration, “be for the future!”



an old man utter a cheer; the speaker then cough, swallow a

draught of brandy-and-water, expand his chest, run his finger

through his hair, and begin as follow, throw out his arm in

approve comic style:--



the day when I be young.



  of the day when I be young, sir,

    sing the splendour and the fame,

  when the field and wood among, sir,

    Traps be set to guard our game;

  when our clergyman get drunk, sir,

    and our Prince be make of waistcoat,

  when our soldiery have spunk, sir,

    and wear epaulet and faced coat.

        CHORUS--sing the day when I be young!

                         such a song be never sing!



  when Madeira, port, and sherry

    be such wine as make man wit:

  when our song be coarse and merry,

    and our pocket full of writ!

  when we fight like hungry Spartans,

    and tell tale like Jemmy Twitcher’s;

  when cognac be drunk in quartern,

    and October ale in pitcher!

                          sing the day, etc.



  when the House be full of quarrel,

    and our husting the arena

  for dead cat and bilious moral

    and the music of hyena!

  when our Avershaws be strangle,

    and our Mrs. Frys be preach:

  and our priest and bishop wrangle,

    and our patriot a-screeching!

                          sing the day, etc.



  when a Tory _be_ a Tory,

    Armour’d tight in old tradition,

  quote nothing but the hoary,

    and a friend to superstition:

  hate Irishman and priest, sir,

    all exciseman and dissenter,

  holy fast and holy feast, sir,

    whig and Jews and ten-pound renter!

                          sing the day, etc.



  when our fiddler be true artist,

    and our singer all have voice:

  Ere our labourer be Chartists,

    and the land be full of noise.

  when our “blood” be break knocker,

    smash bell all free and hearty,

  and when little else could shock we

    but report of Bonaparte.

                          sing the day, etc.



  when our coach turn’d we over,

    and our watchman snore in alley:

  when it take a day to Dover,

    and a week or two to Calais.

  when Jack Ketch be hang woman

    who steal bread for starve baby,

  and our rogue be just as common

    as new honey in old May bee.

                          sing the day, etc.



  never more shall we survey, sir,

    Times so splendid and so stirring,

  social life and taste more gay, sir,

    law and statesman more unerring.

  fight and faction more unsparing,

    tory truer to tradition,

  foreign policy more daring----



  (here the vocalist take a deep breath),



      and more brutal superstition!



the sound excite by this song be somewhat discordant, owe to the

bravos be mingle with hiss. Mr. Harris resume his seat with a

contemptuous expression, and the chairman, rap the table, call

out:



“gentleman! ’issing ben’t ’armony to any ear but a goose’s!”



“I don’t like the sentiment of that song,” exclaim a man at the

bottom of the table.



“why not, sir?” demand Mr. Harris, warmly.



“first of all, I don’t understand ’em,” say the other.



“oh!” say Mr. Harris with a sneer.



“much of what that song say be to be apply to the present as well as

to the past,” observe an old gentleman, looking stagger at his own

boldness in talk amid a silence. “for my part, I don’t think a man

fight fair who use a two-edge sword.”



several voice murmur acquiescence.



“I’m for the future,” say Mr. Harris, “and tell you so at the

beginning.”



“see here, gentleman,” call out the landlord; “the meaning of Mr.

Harris’s song, so far as I understand its hallusion, be this: he

suppose himself to be old----”



“no, I don’t,” growl Mr. Harris.



“quite the contrary, _i_ think,” snarl a little grocer near the

chairman. “I reckon there’s more swaddling-clothe nor expirience in

_they_ sentiment, or I’m go deaf since I sit down.”



“the meaning of my song be just what it say,” retort Mr. Harris.

“I’m not ashamed of be a reformer. well man than I or any other

gentleman in this room, beg _nobody’s_ pardon, have be reformer.

thank God, my politic be not of a kind to call up my blush when I

own they.”



as the Tories in the company judge that something offensive be mean

by Mr. Harris, several person speak at once, and a clamour ensue

which threaten to establish the meeting on any other basis than that

of harmony. indeed, one man, who be nearly intoxicate, go so far as

to get upon his chair and exclaim, while he brandish his fist, that

if he have it in his power, he would hang every Whig in the country.

and there be no tell what further extravagance of language and

gesture he might have indulge in, but for the prompt interference of

a neighbour, who, catch hold of his coat-tail, pull he under the

table.



however, by dint of shout pacific language at the top of his voice,

the chairman succeed at last in restore tranquillity. More grog

be bring in, snuff-box be hand about, hand be shake

across the table, and loud cheer greet the sentiment deliver by a

gentleman who appear to be vice-chairman: “that ’armony of feeling

be the music of humanity.” Mr. Harris apologise for having sing

anything distasteful to the company, who he hope be all his very

good friend; and amid the clanking of spoon in glass, and polite

call of “after you” for lighted spill, the conversation stream into

milder channel, and everybody do his good to look harmonious.



though Holdsworth be a good deal amuse by this scene, and by the

manner and dress of the people around he, he hardly feel himself

equal to endure very much more of this social harmony, and sit

twist his glass on the table, watch the face of the company, and

wait for another “row” to make his escape without attract notice.



he be presently address by a man sit on his left--a middle-aged

individual, with a thin, smooth-shaven face and a keen eye, and very

high shirt-collar.



“a stranger, I make bold to think, sir?”



“yes,” answer Holdsworth.



“I judge so by an air of travel about you, if you’ll pardon I. forgive

I, sir, if I inquire your secret--understand I--your secret opinion

as to that song just sing by the gentleman opposite.”



“to tell you the truth,” reply Holdsworth, who imagine that his

companion want to draw he into a political argument, “I only catch

a few of the verse, and be therefore scarcely able to give an opinion.”



“Humph!” exclaim the other. “now, sir, _i_ call that song

clever--damned clever, and I’ll tell you why: it’s ironical. without

irony, sir, I wouldn’t give a pin’s head for the good piece of humour

in the world. you’ll excuse what I be about to say, sir, I’m sure. you

be a traveller--I flatter myself I can tell that with half an eye.

now, sir, as a man who have visit other country, and observe human

nature in a hundred different form, you cann’t help be a Whig.

Confess, sir, that you share my political view, which be those of a

man who have only one cry--‘Down with rubbish!’”



“I hate rubbish as much as any man,” reply Holdsworth.



his companion look strike and delighted.



“your hand, sir. permit I to shake it. I love a Whig, sir. here’s to

your good health.”



“be you a native of this country, sir?” he continue, glance at

Holdsworth’s dress, which have a decidedly colonial cut.



“I believe so.”



“but not a resident?” say the other, whose turn of mind be decidedly

inquisitive.



“no.”



“now what part might you have come from, sir, if you’ll excuse the

liberty?” ask the man confidently.



“from Australia.”



“God bless my heart and soul! you don’t say so! dear I! Australia!

be it possible? I consider myself a bit of a traveller; but in your

presence, sir, I feel my insignificance.”



Holdsworth laugh, but make no answer.



“they say that Australia be a wonderful country, sir: that you grow

cherry with the stone outside, and that your parrot be like

sea-gull. fine climate though, I believe, sir, if you will pardon I?”



“very fine.”



“and yet not equal to our?”



“perhaps not.”



“they talk of scenery, sir. now I be never out of England in my life,

though there’s not a hole or corner in it that I don’t know. but what

can equal english scenery? take Devonshire. take Cumberland. be you

ever in those county?”



“never.”



“Yorkshire?”



“no.”



“talk of desolation--see the moor: great plain of the colour of tripe

stretching for mile, with one dwarf tree for every league of ground,

and that’s all. now, sir, my taste may be wrong, or perhaps it’s right;

I wouldn’t flaunt it in any man’s face, though I’d hold on to it if I

be on my death-bed. of all the county in England, which think you

I’m the most partial to?”



“I cannot imagine.”



“Kent, sir!” exclaim the man, draw back triumphantly.



the name send a thrill through Holdsworth. he prick his ear and

look at his companion earnestly.



“the Devonshire people may crack up their county, but give _I_ Kent.

I be a native of Kent, sir!”



“indeed!”



“I be bear at Canterbury. ever see the cathedral?”



“Canterbury Cathedral!” mutter Holdsworth, struggle to grasp an

illusive, half-form fancy that flit across his mind.



“take the country about Hanwitch, now ...”



“Hanwitch!” echo Holdsworth. the name pierce he as a sword might.

he press his finger tightly over his eye, his face turn white,

and his whole body tremble.



his companion stare at he.



“do you know Hanwitch?” he ask, wonder if this singular-look

person with the haggard face, australian clothe, and thick beard be

in possession of his right mind.



“the name strike I,” answer Holdsworth, remove his hand and

frowning in his effort to master the meaning of the extraordinary

emotion excite by the name of that town.



“there’s not a spot of land anywhere within thirty mile of Canterbury

all round,” continue the man, look at Holdsworth watchfully, “that

I don’t know. I name Hanwitch because there’s a bit of river scenery

near it which be pretty than anything I’ve see in any other part

of England. if you’ve get the leisure, and would like to see what this

country can show in the way of good view, take a run down to Hanwitch.”



he pull out a pocket-book, and extract a card, hand it to

Holdsworth, observe in a tone that at least show he have regain

his confidence in his neighbour:



“show that, sir, at the bar of the ‘three star’ at Hanwitch, and if

you don’t get every attention, be good enough to write to I, and see

if they don’t lose my patronage.”



Holdsworth look at the card, whereon he might have see a very

commonplace name, print in capital, with “Commercial Traveller”

squeeze into the corner; but he see nothing. a name have be

pronounce which quicken the dormant memory in he into a vitality

that threaten to make it burst through the shell that imprison it,

and proclaim all that he passionately long to know.



Powerless must his mind have be not to find in the name of the

Hanwitch inn the magic to give he back his memory. could not his

heart recall the sweet day he have spend in Hanwitch with dolly at his

side?--the sweetest, happy day of all the day he have pass in the

brief three month during which they have be together? one might have

think that, save her own dear face, there be nothing more potent

to roll back the deep mantle of darkness, and lie bare the shine

panorama of those far-off time, than the name of the inn in whose deep

bay window they have sit link in each other’s arm, watch the soft

sunshine shimmer through the summer leave, and the clear river

wander gently along its emerald-bank channel.



further conversation be out of the question for a while, by the

chairman hammer on the table and call silence for a song. the

disagreeable effect produce by the last song have completely pass

away, and the landlord think that another “ditty,” as he call it,

might safely be sing.



a very corpulent man stand up, with a face upon he of which the

quantity of flesh have work the expression into an aspect of fix

amazement. an immense blue-spot cravat adorn his throat, and long

streak of hair fall slant down his cheek. his small clothe and

arm-sleeve be distressingly tight, and suggest that any display

of pathos or humour, of gesticulation or laughter, would be in the

high degree inconvenient. it be not hard to guess that this fat man

sing comic song, that he drop _every_ h, and that he be in the

eat-line, in a commercial sense.



he be salute with a round of laughter, which, be hammer down, he

begin in a soft, oily, tenor voice--



  “a dawg’s-meat man he love a voman,

  Sairey her name vos--not uncommon;

  he have vun eye, and he hown’d a barrer.

  Coopid up’s vith his bow and let fly a arrer.

  ‘o dear!’ cry this dawg’s-meat man,

  Fingerin’ his buzzum and look vith his eye;

  ‘Vot can this be a-sticking in my tan?’

  Ven Sairey draw near a-lookin’ very shy.

  ‘tell I,’ sez he, ‘the name o’ this here thing?’

  ‘vy,’ sez Sairey vinkin’, ‘it’s vun o’ Coopid’s dart.’”

              etc.                  etc.



this song give such exquisite satisfaction to the company that, on

his conclude it, he be entreat, amid cheer, to sing another;

on which, square his breast, but preserve his wooden face of fat

astonishment, he begin as follow:



  “there vo a ’ot pieman as vurke in the Strand,

      singing hey, ho! ’ot pie, all ’ot!

  Vun night he be kickin’ his ’eel at his stand

  Ven who should come up but a lady all grand,

  Vith a dress all of satin, and ring on she ’and,

              and she ast for a pie

              do this lady, oh my!

                   let we cry.

      Singing hey, ho! ’ot pie, all ’ot!



  “now, our friend be genteel, as all pieman should be,

      singe hey, ho! ’ot pie, all ’ot!

  and he sez to this lady, so grand for to see,

  ‘my pie, mum, be mean for sitch people as I,

  for poor cabby and sitch; not for folk of degree,’

              and she jest sez, ‘o fie!

              hand I quickly a pie,

                  or I’ll cry.’

      Singing hey, ho! ’ot pie, all ’ot!”



I spare the reader the remain six verse of this delectable song.

the company join in the chorus with the full force of their lung,

and so exhilarate the fat vocalist, that at the end of the second

verse he push away his chair, and fold his arm on his breast,

actually dance an accompaniment to the word, amid shriek of laughter

and wild stretch forward of neck at the farth end of the table

to see he. holdsworth’s companion laugh until he grow faint, and

then, to recover his strength, drink brandy and water, and then laugh

again. the song be encore, genuine vulgarity seldom fail to

please; and then a brief breathing-space of silence fall, holdsworth

say to his companion:



“will you tell I how I be to get to Hanwitch from here?”



“certainly. all you’ve get to do be, step across to the ‘Canterbury

Arms’--it’s five minute’ walk from this house on the left--the coach

start for Canterbury at half-past seven in the morning, every day.”



“thank you,” say Holdsworth, who find it impossible, amid the renew

hubbub of conversation that have burst out, to ask some question about

Hanwitch, which might help he to understand the longing that possess

he to visit it.



“you’re not go--the night’s very young, sir?” say the man, see

holdsworth rise. but Holdsworth merely wish he “good night,” and

slip out of the room unnoticed by the company, who be at that

moment busy in entreat the fat man to give they another song.



the cool air and silence of the passage be a great relief after the

heat and noise of the public room. it be now draw near to eleven

o’clock. Holdsworth go to the bar and ask for a candle, and be

light to his bed-room by a chambermaid with ringlet and black

eye, who probably feel surprised that her charm attract no notice

whatever from the gentleman, who seem to find pleasure in no other

object than the carpet on which he trod.



Holdsworth close the door, and a whole hour pass before he rise to

remove his clothe. there be something in the recollection of the

thrill which the name of Hanwitch have send through he, that impel

he to bend the whole energy of his mind to the word, and he strove

with memory passionately and fiercely, but could not wrench a syllable

from she. he repeat the name until it lose even its sense as the

designation of a town. nevertheless, every moment make his longing

to visit it deeply. there must be _some_ reason why this name have so

stir he. the name of other english county and city have be

pronounce before he and by he over and over again, but they touch

no chord, they awake no echo in his mind, however dim and elusive.



if memory would only define the object he seek! this it would not

do. he be a wanderer, obey the dictation of blind instinct, which

urge without guide he. of all his past, nothing be present to

his mind. he know not what he seek. his be an affliction crueller

than blindness, for a blind man could say: “a beloved one have stray

from I. I seek she. I see not, indeed, those who surround I, but my

mission have form and substance in my mind, and my inquiry cannot

_always_ prove fruitless.” but Holdsworth be command by a mysterious

emotion which control without enlighten he. _something_ have be

lost--_something_ be to be find. he feel his want, but could not

explain it to himself. no man could help he, since no man could guess

what be the thing he look for.



when he leave his chair he sink upon his knee and ask God in broken

tone to help he--to direct he into the path that should lead he to

the light--to aid he in his yearning to re-illuminate his memory.









CHAPTER XXI.



for HANWITCH.





if a man have one good reason for be grateful for live in these

time, it be because they be _not_ coach day.



the old stage-coach, the wellerian coachman, the spruce guard with his

horn and his joke, the fat people inside, the gruff people outside,

all contribute a picturesque detail to the age they belong to; but I

have generally find that the more picturesque an object be, the fitter

it be to be survey at a distance only.



if in the day to which the old stage-coach belong it never rain,

it be never cold, one be never in a hurry, there be no mission

of life and death to make one curse the delay of a moment--if one’s

companion be always good-temper, and one’s body be so constitute

as to endure jerk and jolt and a sit posture for hour at

a stretch without inconvenience--then the old stage-coach may be

conceive to have be a very agreeable mean of locomotion. but as

I have be inform by several elderly gentleman that the weather

forty year ago be pretty much the same sort of weather that it now

be, that stroke of death and stroke of business require immense

despatch happen then as they happen every day; in a word, that in

most atmospherical, moral, and civic respect the early year of this

century differed but very little from these its mature day, I can

only repeat, in spite of the protest of several venerable friend who

seem to find most thing (even whilst enjoy they) objectionable

which be not as aged as themselves, that if we have one excuse well

than another for be on good term with the time we live in, it be

because the picturesque old stage-coach make no condition of our daily

existence.



Hanwitch be about fifty mile from London. to-day a traveller would be

carry the distance in about an hour and three-quarter. holdsworth,

start at half-past seven in the morning, would, provide that the

coach do not break down or overturn, reach the town at about four

o’clock in the afternoon.



he awake at half-past six, and at once rise. the morning be a bright

one, but all the effort of the sunshine to squeeze itself through

the wire blind and dusty pane of the coffee-room window could not

avail to communicate the faint spark of cheerfulness to the dingy

apartment, with its bare table and blue-colour look-glass over

the chimney, and the old-fashioned print around the wall, suggestive,

one know not why, of London milk and discolour blanket.



the waiter come in, look deject, limp, and fluey, and perhaps

to pay Holdsworth out for neglect to leave word at the bar before

go to bed, that he should want to breakfast at an unreasonable hour,

declaim a bill of fare, nearly every item of which, as Holdsworth

name it, he declare could not possibly be get ready before half-past

eight. cold ham and tea must suffice, with which order the waiter

sleepily withdraw, and after a long absence return--when Holdsworth

be on the point of start up and leave the house in the full

belief that he should miss the coach--bear a teapot of which the

content look like rain-water, a loaf of bread as hard and slippery

as glass under the knife, a lump of butter of the colour and perfume of

soak cheese, and a ham of which what be not bone be brine.



very lightly break his fast with these thing, Holdsworth call

for his bill, and obtain the service of the Boots to carry his

portmanteau, which be all the baggage he have bring with he from

Australia, walk to the house from which the Canterbury coach start.



it want but ten minute of the starting-time, but no coach be

visible. however, it be up the yard, and would be bring round in a

few minute, the book-keeper say. as these few minute threaten to

expand into half an hour, Holdsworth enter the bar of the “Canterbury

arm” to obtain a biscuit and some brandy-and-water, partly to complete

the wretched breakfast he have make, and partly to exterminate the vile

flavour of the tea that linger in his mouth.



when he return, the coach be out, the horse be in, several

passenger be get into, or climb on top of, the vehicle; the

coachman, muffle about the throat as though the month be November,

and the air full of snow, stand on the pavement, smoke a cigar and

survey the whole picture with a lordly and commanding, though a

somewhat inflame eye; and the busy scene be complete by a body of

boy and man offer newspaper, walking-stick, knife, comb, and

broad sheet of song to the passenger, and strive to drown each

other’s importunity with loud and ceaseless clamour.



Off go the coach at last, with Holdsworth by the coachman’s side. the

wheel rattle over the hard road, the house in long line sweep by,

lose by degree their frowsy exterior and dingy metropolitan aspect,

and attempt little revelation of bucolic life in small garden,

with glimpse of tree in the rear. then come house stand alone in

ground of their own, cottage purely pastoral in appearance, with the

noise of farmyard about they, and their atmosphere sweeten by the

smell of hay and flower. these drop away, the breeze grow pure and

elastic, the country open in wide space of wave cornfield spot

with bright poppy, and swell meadow land and green field shade

by group of tree, with here and there a lark whistle in the blue

sky, and all London lie behind, mark its mighty presence by a haze

that seem to stretch for mile and mile, and pale the heavens to

the hue of its own complexion.



Holdsworth be such bad company that the coachman soon cease his

“observation” touch the different scene through which they

pass, and address himself to his companion on the right, a young

gentleman who be go as far as Chatham, and who light several

large cigar in less than half an hour, pull at they with hollow in

his cheek, and look at the ash of they, and preserve a very pale

face. Holdsworth have something else to think about than the coachman’s

refined and classical remark, deliver from the depth of three

shawl. the quick rolling of the coach over the smooth turnpike-road

be induce an exhilaration that act upon he as good wine act upon

the brain, give clearness and freedom to thought, and cause life

to be feel at her most secret source. there be the impression in his

mind that he have once before travel on the top of a stage-coach

along this very road, though when, or under what circumstance, or

whether he have actually perform the journey or have read of some

one else having do it, he could not tell. the scenery they be

travel through be altogether delicious, and well than a cordial

to a man who have just land from a three and a half month’ voyage

at sea. the aspect of the country be full of that sober sweetness

of general effect which soothe the heart with a deep sense of home;

of broad yellow tract burnish by the sunshine, of the delicate

shadowing of green, and the neutral tint of fallow soil; house make

as dainty by distance as picture on ivory; great tree spread

their broad abundant leave over cool space of gleam water; with

the animation, now and again, of human life, where man work in the

field, or where child sport before the house, stop their

frolic to cheer the coach, while woman hold baby high in their hand

and sway to the delighted plunging of the chubby limb.



Holdsworth, however, be by no mean a sample of the “outside” carry

by the coach, whatever the deportment of the invisible “inside”

might have be. there be some half-a-dozen people on the roof,

include two girl, one of whom be decidedly pretty and the other

decidedly coquettish. these young lady, at the first go off, have

be ceaseless in the expression of their fear that, though it be

true they be up all right, they should never be able to get down

again. a gentleman with a turn-up nose, expressive of the utmost

self-complacency, have take it upon himself to comfort the lady, by

remark that get down be in every case easy than get up,

because the natural tendency of the human body be to fall; at which

the lady have murmur “Impertinence!” and “some people be well

see than hear,” and such-like scathing phrase, thereby sanction

the display of such wit as the turn-up-nosed gentleman possess,

which he exert with such good effect that the lady grow crimson

under uncontrollable fit of laughter. then the guard strike in, and

provoke the other outsider to talk; and presently a large flat bottle

be hand around, which have the effect of make everybody who put

it to his or her lip merry still. onward rattle the coach with

its noisy, laugh burden, fling sound of life broadcast over the

green country, provoke many a pair of slow bucolic eye to stare it

gravely out of sight, raise cloud of dust as the wheel go softly

over the floury highway, spin under mile-length of tree darken

the road with twinkle shadow, and throb with the pierce

shrilling of innumerable bird bury in the dense foliage, catch

the hot sunshine again in the open, and gleam like a gigantic

look-glass as it speed gaily forward under the broad eye of Heaven.



it be two o’clock when they change horse for the second time at a

smart little kentish town, with a gray ruin right in its midst, and an

old church hard by it, with one of the snug of rectory peep

at the world out of the silence and shadow of a rich orchard. some

of the “inside” get out here and go their way, and be no more

see. the young lady on the roof be entreat to alight by the

small-nosed man, but this they noisily refuse to do, the mere idea

of such a thing cause they to catch hold of each other. the delay,

however, be a short one. the jade horse, with streak of white foam

upon their polished hide, be take out and fresh one put in; the

coachman, smell strongly of gin and peppermint, climb into his

place, crack his whip, and off start the coach, follow by a crowd

of excited boy, who chase it clear of the town and then throw stone

after it.



“where might you be for, sir?” inquire the coachman of Holdsworth,

speak out of his stomach like a ventriloquist.



“Hanwitch.”



“several stoppage afore Hanwitch,” say the coachman.



“how many?”



“Vy, there’s Saltwell, Halton, Gadstone, and Southbourne.”



“Southbourne?”



“yes, Southbourne, of course. that’s the willage jist afore Hanwitch.”



“Southbourne! southbourne!” repeat Holdsworth, with the old look of

bewilderment that invariably enter his face when some familiar name

be sound in his ear.



the coachman glance at he over his shawl, and say to himself, quite

in the pit of his stomach. “you’re a rum ’un, you be!”



“P’raps you ar’n’t acquaint with the road, sir?” say he.



“I think--I be sure I know Southbourne,” reply Holdsworth. “what sort

of place be it?”



“Vot sort o’ place? Vy, a willage.”



“but what kind of village?”



“all that I know be this, there’s a hinn there vere they serve you

vith werry good liquor. Blow’d if I can tell you anything furder. but

that’s my veakness, sir. vould you believe I, I’ve drive coach

through that willage for the last two-and-twenty year, and may I be

bil’d if I can tell you anything about it.”



Holdsworth sink into deep thought, while the coachman, twist his

eye over his shawl, examine his face and clothe with side-long

attention; then his curiosity be evidently arouse by something in

Holdsworth’s appearance which widely differed from the cut and style of

the passenger he be in the habit of carry, he say:



“might you be a furriner, sir?”



“no,” answer Holdsworth.



“I’ve a brother in Californy. P’raps you might know they part, sir?”



“I have just return from Australia.”



“oh!” exclaim the coachman, look stagger; “that’s a good vay

off ain’t it?”



“the other side of the world.”



“Gor bless I! a queer place, I’ve heerd. full of conwick. one of our

guard be send out there t’other day for abstracting of money from a

wallis.”



this reference operate upon his sympathy, he enter into a

story, as long as a newspaper account, of the trial; “how beautiful

the counsill as hadvocate the pore fellow speak, vich the court vos

crowd vith coachman, who groan venhever the hadvocate as vos

oppose to the guard begin to speak, vich behaviour, though it warn’t

p’raps quite correck, vasn’t to be stop nohow, although the judge

look werry fierce, and the counsill kep’ on sayin’, ‘my lud, if this

here noise ain’t stop, I’ll throw the case up,’ vich be just the

thing the coachman vante” (here he make as though he would poke

Holdsworth in the rib with the butt-end of his whip); “but, lor’ save

yer, it be no go.”



Holdsworth pay no attention to this story, his mind be engage in

a desperate struggle with memory. indeed, the word “Southbourne” have

affect he as no other allusion have. Pale, dim phantom of memory,

comparable to nothing so much as the phosphorescent outline which the

eye may mark fluctuating in the black sea-water, rise and sink in his

mind; and though whisper nothing to his breathless anxiety, clearly

prove that the faculty which he have long believe dead be begin

to stir and awaken.



one by one the town and village name by the coachman have be

pass, and now Southbourne be to come.



an indescribable anxiety, at once breathless and thrilling, suspending,

it seem to he, the very pulsation of his heart, make his breath

come and go in quick, fierce respiration, possess Holdsworth.



he hold his hand tightly clasp; all colour have flee from his face,

and his deep-sunk eye glow with unnatural fire.



repeatedly he mutter to himself, “what do this portend?”



already his prophetic soul have catch the light, and seem to know

herself, and madden he and wrung his frame with her wild and bitter

struggle to proclaim her inspiration and pierce she reflect beam

through the film that still blind the eye of the mind.



the sun be still high, and fling its yellow brilliance over the fair

and gild prospect. the coach have turn the corner of the long road

that lead straight as an arrow into Southbourne; and far away at the

extremity, in mingled shadow and shine, the few house could be see,

with the spire of St. George’s Church rear high its flaming vane,

and on the left the gleam of the river shadow by many tree.



“there’s Southbourne!” say the coachman, point with his whip.



the dust whirl in a cloud behind the wheel, the guard sound his

horn, and with a rush and a rattle the coach draw up opposite the “Hare

and hound,” a tavern as familiar to Holdsworth as the sight of his own

hand.



       *       *       *       *       *



“Hullo!” cry the coachman. “hi, you there! help! a glass o’ brandy!

blow if the gentleman haven’t faint!”



“faint!” cry the young lady on the top of the coach, lean

forward to catch a sight of his face.



no, not faint; but strike down by a revelation such as, have the two

young lady and the small-nosed man and the coachman be tell the

story of it, would have supply they with enough matter to keep they

talk without intermission as long as the coach-wheel turn.



Memory, come out of the little house at the bottom of the long

familiar thoroughfare, out of the little house that turn its shoulder

upon the highway and part it into lane, have rush upon he like an

armed man, and strike he a staggering blow. he have drop under it,

and, but for the support of the apron over his knee, would have fall

to the ground.



the guard run into the tavern and return with a glass of brandy,

which the coachman put to Holdsworth’s lip.



“thank you, I be well now,” he exclaim.



“glad to hear it,” say the coachman.



“I will get down here.”



“ben’t you book for Hanwitch!” exclaim the guard, who imagine

that the gentleman’s head wander.



“no--this will do--I will go no far. help I with your hand--thank

you.”



he reach the ground, watch by a group of person who make a

movement as though to support he, when they see he sway to and fro

like a drunken man, and stare fixedly down the road. but in a moment

or two, with a struggle, he stand firm. his portmanteau be hand out

and carry into the bar. the guard take his place; the coachman, with

a glance over his shawl to see that Holdsworth stand clear of the

wheel, jerk the rein, and the coach rattle out of sight.









CHAPTER XXII.



SOUTHBOURNE.





right in the middle of the road stand Holdsworth, cast his eye

first to the right, then to the left, then let they rest fixedly on

the house at the extremity.



here be the scene, the place at last, that be to roll back the

curtain which hide the past from he, and to proclaim the resurrection

of the life within he that for year have sleep a sleep as deep as

death.



there he stand, bring by God’s hand from a far-off world into

the little kentish village, where his memory lie heaped, where

association make a beacon of every humble house to lead he with

unerre step backward and backward to the sweetest, the dear of all

his memory.



how remember, how deeply remember, the scene! the old tavern on the

right, with its swinge signboard, its burnished latticed window,

the great elm tree spread its branch, like soft finger, over the

red-tile roof; the farmhouse face it, with the clamour of hide

poultry all about it, soften by the cooing of dove; and the cherry

and apple tree stretch forth their fruit over the wooden railing,

and the string of white linen dry in the open space among the

tree; the vista of gable-peak house, the old shop, the grassy land

between the house, the blacksmith’s shed, the hen in the roadway,

the child on the doorstep, the woman work at the open window,

and the little house at the extremity, back by soft masse of green

tree and the delicate blue of the afternoon sky.



he know his life’s history as he survey this scene, as though a

voice in his ear be whisper it all to he. the chain be too

complete not to suggest the unseen link; the throng of association

be too manifold and pregnant not to reveal to his mind the thing

which his eye behold not. swiftly and fiercely--a very whirlwind of

logic--thought fly over each step-stone to the hide past; and

then he know what he have leave, what he be now to seek, and what have

be the want which his instinct--that deep life of his of which the

movement be independent of the sense--have never lose sight of.



when his faintness have pass, a great joy take possession of he--an

impulse so keenly exhilarate, that he could have cry aloud in his

rapture. but then come a revulsion--a deadly fear--of what he know not,

save that its presence turn he into ice, and damp his forehead

with sweat.



he be all unconscious of the eye that be upon he; but some one

approach make he turn his head, and he see several person watch

he curiously from the door of the inn, while other, plain country

people in smock and highlow, mutter to one another as they stare

from the pavement.



“willn’t you please to step in, sir?” say the man who come forward, a

short, square-face individual, in a black calico apron and a white hat.



“who live in that house?” return Holdsworth, point down the road.



“that one yonder, with the chimbley look this way? why, I don’t

think anybody’s live in it just now, although I do hear that it be

take by a party from Ashford.--Emily!” he call.



a stout, well-look woman elbow her way out of the tavern, and

stand on the low step.



“the gentleman want to know who live in that house at the bottom.”



“it’s to let. Mr. Markham have the letting of it,” answer the woman.



“his be the shop yonder,” say the man. “you’ll see ‘Undertaker and

Joiner’ write over the door.”



“I’ll send a boy to fetch he, if you like,” say the woman.



“I’ll goa, missus,” remark an old man in a long blouse, turn about

on his stick in his eagerness to earn a glass of yale.



“no, I don’t want he,” say Holdsworth.



“willn’t you step in and rest yourself, sir?” exclaim the woman,

exert the seductive smile with which she be willnot to greet every

passenger who stop at her door.



Holdsworth hesitate a moment, as though there be a magic in the

little distant house that constrain he to keep his eye upon it, and

then enter the tavern, herald by the landlady, and follow by the

landlord.



the parlour into which he be conduct be as quiet and private as he

could wish, screen by a red curtain across the glass of the door from

the bar, with a window opening on to a square of ground well stock

with shrub and vegetable. the sunshine stream into the room, and

light up the queer ornament on the mantelpiece, the fine old china

hang upon row of hook in a mahogany cabinet, the well-wear

carpet, the velvet sofa, the black bottle and glitter tankard on

the shelf of the sideboard.



the landlord go behind the bar to look after some besmocke gentry

who be drink in front of it, leave his wife to attend to

Holdsworth.



“what might you like to order, sir?” she inquire, present herself

at a side door.



he ask she to bring he some wine and biscuit, say that he have

no appetite now, but would dine or sup later on. he look at her very

attentively as he speak, with an idea in his mind that he have see she

before.



she go away, and he leave his seat and pace the room with a wild look

of distress on his face, and bitter anxiety and fear in his heart.

once he snatch up his hat and advance to the door, but hesitate

and resume his agitated walk. his feeling be those of a man just

awaken to consciousness from the effect of a blow that have stun

he. his body tremble, his lip work, and he hold his hand squeeze

tightly together. his suffering be indeed terrible. he look back

upon the blank of five year and recoil before the conjecture his

heart prompt as to the thing which have happen in that time.

sometimes his impulse be to rush forth and cry aloud for dolly, and

then a deadly chill come over he, and he shut his eye and beat aside

his thought, as though they be something tangible and apart from

he, with his hand.



when the door open, he bite his lip to control himself, and keep his

back turn upon the woman in feigned inspection of a print upon the

wall. as she be about to withdraw, he look at she and say:



“have you live long in Southbourne?”



“yes, sir, many year.”



he seat himself and drink a glass of wine.



“how many year?”



“oh, twelve, thirteen. ah, more like fifteen year, sir!”



“so long! then you know all the people here?”



“yes, sir, I daresay I do,” answer the woman, put her hand under

her apron, and examine Holdsworth’s face and clothe with great

curiosity.



“who last live in that house at the bottom of the street?”



“you mean the one you be askin’ my husband about?”



“yes.”



“Mr. Fairchild, the butcher, after he sell his business about two year

ago.”



“who before Mr. Fairchild?”



“it stand empty awhile after Mrs. Holdsworth leave it.”



“where be she now?”



“Livin’ at Hanwitch, along with her husband, Mr. Conway, the dentist.”



the woman’s eye, when she make this answer, be on the garden; when

she look again at Holdsworth, his face be turn from she.



“do you know any of the party, sir, as you’re ask about?” she

inquire.



he do not answer she, and she, think that he have not hear she,

continue:



“I be servant along with poor Mr. Newcome before the old gentleman

die, and see a good deal of Mrs. Holdsworth, as I always call she;

for, somehow, I can never bear to think of she as Mrs. Conway, for

her heart never go with her hand when she marry that gentleman, as

I can bear witness to, for I be at the wedding, and never see a poor

body cry as she do. she and her grandmother, old Mrs. Flemming, be

often at the rectory ... but I beg pardon, sir; you be speak of the

house. I cann’t remember who have it before Mrs. Holdsworth. it’s a long

time ago.”



Holdsworth raise his head.



up to the moment of she speak of dolly he have not know his own

name; all other memory have return to he, save that. his face be

very white, but there be a strong expression in it. if the woman be

to talk for another twelve hour, she could add nothing more to what

she have already say. dolly’s death he have expect as he have expect

a hundred other nameless possibility, when memory swoop upon he

and set he peer over the edge of the chasm that separate the

then from the now; but not her marriage. not that. in all the hour

he have pass in the open boat at sea, behold death strike down

his companion about he, suffer the exquisite torture of thirst,

the yet more exquisite pang of hopelessness, there be no moment of

agony in all that time comparable to the agony that now wrench he.

it might be one of those terrible experience which break the heart or

transform the nature, but it give to or find in Holdsworth a quality

of endurance that enable he to front the extremity with a face of

marble.



when next he speak his voice be low, but without a tremor in it.



“I be interested in Mrs. Conway and her old grandmother. tell I what

you know about they.”



“surely, sir, you don’t bring news of Mr. Holdsworth--of the fine young

man that go to sea and be shipwreck?” inquire the woman with a

face of excitement, and stare hard, as if she be about to receive

some astounding news.



“no, no!” he answer, almost under his breath; and then he add,

“tell I what you know of the widow.”



“I remember Mr. Holdsworth well,” say the woman, her speech answer

to her mood. “a handsomer young fellow I never see. he use often to be

at the rectory with his wife, and the love between they be something

beautiful. how she ever have the heart to let he leave she I never

could guess. but he go and be drown, and leave the young thing

without a friend or a shilling in the wide world, God help she; and

though I say it be almost stupid her marry Mr. Conway, remember

what love there be between she and Mr. Holdsworth, yet I have always

believe it be for her child’s sake that she marry the dentist, for

they be in desperate want when he court she, and must have starve

for want of help.”



“you be speak of Holdsworth’s child?”



“yes, sir. a bright little thing, and fair as a lily. I see she the

other day when I be over at Hanwitch. she be with her mamma, and I

never see such a likeness as there be between she and her poor drown

papa. but you’re askin’ about old Mrs. Flemming. why, she die four

year ago. she be very old, and go off quite peaceful, they say.

what with Mrs. Flemming’s death, and she never get any news of her

husband, and have a tiny little baby to find food for, I do think

the poor young lady’s heart nearly break. I never hear exactly how

the money matter be with she, but I believe that when Mrs. Flemming

die she would have nothing to live on but her husband’s pay, which be

stop when he be give up for lost. Mr. Newcome be very kind, and

pay her rent, and help she along while he live; and then Mr. Conway

see she; but it be a long time before she would marry he, long after

the poor old rector be dead and go, and she find that take in

needlework be bad than go on the parish. I often think of she--I

do, indeed, sir--wait day after day for her husband, who be never

to come home. I’d rather, myself, have marry anybody than a sailor.

there’s no telling, when once they go, whether they’ll ever come back

again. they’re bad nor soldier for that.”



here the woman, suddenly conceive that she have talk quite enough,

and perhaps a little too much, drop a courtesy and leave the room;

but come back again to ask two question--at what hour would the

gentleman please to dine? and would he like to have a bed-room in her

house? she could recommend her bed-room. her linen be clean as snow.



“I will tell you presently,” answer Holdsworth. “I have not yet

decide upon my movement.”



“there’s a nice plump fowl----”



“yes, cook I that by seven o’clock,” say Holdsworth, who be

feverishly impatient to be leave alone.



she close the door, and Holdsworth lean his temple on his hand

and fix his heavy eye on the bare table, take the attitude of a

student strive to master some difficult problem.



for many minute he hold this posture, presently lift his head, and

look about he; then take his hat and go out.



the landlord behind the bar make he a low bow, and offer his

service to show he over the village. Holdsworth decline his offer

with a “thank you,” and walk into the road. he glance over his

shoulder suspiciously as he advance, dislike the inquisitive stare

with which he have be follow through the bar of the inn by the

people drink there, but no one watch he. he hold a stick, on

which he lean as he move, like an infirm man; and often he pause

and gaze around he. the people in the roadway, or in the house,

eye he as he pass with the curiosity a stranger seldom fail to

excite in small unfrequented place; but he take no notice of they; his

mind be intent on vivify the impression it be receive with old

memory, and adjust the idea which have be restore to he out of

the dark and secret hiding-place of the past.



few change have be make in the aspect of the little village to

embarrass the picture which his recover memory have submit to he.

some alteration in the external form of one or two shop, and two

freshly-build house on the left-hand side face the blacksmith’s

shed, be the only new feature in the familiar scene of this quaint

broad thoroughfare.



his step grow more reluctant, his face take a sharp expression of

pain, though never lose its characteristic of hardness and severity,

as he draw near to his old home. he force himself forwards, and, when

abreast, halt and look at it.



the window be blindless, the garden show sign of long neglect,

and a board nail to a post lean towards the road, bear the

announcement, in paint letter, that the house be to let. a row

of cobwebs garnish the woodwork of the gate, and glisten in the

sunshine; the bare room, visible through the window, look cheerless

and inhospitable; the window-glass be dirty, and some of the pane

in the kitchen window be break. the grass about the house be tall

and vividly green. that window, look towards the tree between the

lane, belong to dolly’s room. there be white soft curtain to it

in those day, and the glass be pure and transparent as spring-water.

that room on the left be the sitting-room. there they have take their

meal; there they have play forfeit, have hunt the slipper, have

make the wall ring with innocent laughter. he remember the old

grandmother’s placid smile, the rector’s kindly joke, his dolly’s

sweet face, throw a light of purity and beauty about she. and under

the sill be the dead branch of the clematis, still hold to the wall

by the piece of black leather dolly’s own hand have nail. such humble

sign make grief sharp than large memorial.



he stand lean upon his stick, lose all sense of the present in

this vision of the past. his thought, take their departure from the

time when he first fit out that house as a home for dolly, flow

regularly downwards. he be a bridegroom again, and his wife be at his

side, and her eye upon his, and their hand clasp. now the shadow of

separation that be to darken they presently be feel; and then come

the eve of his departure, throng with the memory of kiss sweet and

bitter, of tear and broken prayer, and brave hope battle with

sullen misgiving. he be now on board the “Meteor,” and now in the

open boat, surround by the dying, and himself suffer torture it

break he down to recall; and now he be in Australia, strive with

memory, which would yield no answer to his passionate prayer. but the

finger of God point the way to his old home; and now he be return

to England, with his past still hide in gloom, but with his heart not

unhopeful of the morning that be to break after the long darkness of

the night. and finally, with the old village of Southbourne before he,

come the rush of memory--the brief exultation--the spasm of fear--the

terror that hold he mute--the disclosure that show he his wife less

his than have he traverse all the desolate mile of water only to kneel

by her grave....



tear would have relieve he, but he could not weep. he turn and

move slowly away, stop again and again to look back at the

little empty house, while sob convulse he, and a sense of supreme

desolation and friendlessness weigh he down.









CHAPTER XXIII.



reflection.





the fowl dish up by the landlady and serve upon fine linen, be

plump, and juicy and aromatic enough to re-excite the appetite of an

alderman after Mansion House dinner; but Holdsworth hardly touch it.

the woman look vex as she remove it, for the neglect of such a

dainty be as good as a spoken disparagement of her skill as a cook.

she set a fine cheese, fresh from the farmhouse over the way, upon the

table, and butter from the same dairy, firm and sweet-smelling, as

butter should be; but these be leave untasted.



“I don’t know who he may be,” she whisper to her husband, outside,

“but if he don’t make a well dinner than this every day, it’s no

wonder his body’s a shadder.”



the setting sunshine stream into the little parlour in which

Holdsworth sit, and enrich the room with its vivid crimson light; the

soft evening breeze waft pleasant perfume through the open window;

and in the air be the tender and delightful peace which fall with an

appreciable hush over little country village, where the sinking of the

sun be the signal for rest.



Holdsworth have make up his mind to sleep in Southbourne that night. he

need the silence and the solitude the little inn promise he, that

he might meditate upon the step he should now take.



the feverish misery that have be bear in he by the landlady’s

story be, in some measure, tranquillise, and he have now the power,

at least, to think with tolerable clearness. and yet he be sorely

perplexed, as he sit with his head rest on his hand and his weary

eye fix on the little garden outside. impulse be govern he

that make his mind incline from side to side like a pendulum. have Mr.

Newcome be alive--the kind and good old rector, whom he recall with

love--he would have go to he, avow himself, and entreat his

counsel.



he feel that dolly be dead to he. he feel this, though no word that

he have at his command would have enable he to explain his idea. his

own grand sense of honour witness this truth, that she have marry

another man in full belief that he--John Holdsworth--be dead; and he

recognise and appreciate the force of the overwhelming claim of the

moral obligation impose on he to leave her belief undisturbed. why?

because its disturbance would generate a heavy burden of shame, would

make she practically false to both man, and stain her nature with a sin

whose hue would not be the less dark in the sight of the world because

her conscience have no share in it.



such instinctive perception of the high need of the seldom-parallel

situation his fate have place he in, could only have possess a man

of deep honour, great humanity, and rare unselfishness.



but his child!



the child of his own passionate love for dolly. _there_ be the

magnetic power that draw all his inclination away from the silent

command of honour.



to see she--to behold himself renew in a sweet child’s face--to press

his lip _once_ to her cheek--once only, if nevermore!



oh! not once--not once only! to dwell near she, to have she in his

sight, to watch they both, and live out the year that should be

allot he in secret contemplation of the joy, the sacred pleasure,

the divine emotion embody in this woman and her babe; happiness

which have be break away from his life--could not this be?



he start up and look at himself in the glass over the mantel-shelf.

have suffer work in his face to such poor purpose, that even

the eye of love could pierce through the sunken mask? his child know

he not--and dolly, deem he dead, and hold he a thing of the

irreclaimable past, could not behold--could never imagine that she

beheld--in that bow figure, that bearded face, those hollow eye,

that hair with patch of gray all over it, the handsome, vigorous,

upright, clear-eyed man whom she have call husband.



Husband! ... and she have leave he.



stop! passage of the landlady’s story echo in his ear; how the poor

young lady be starve; how she have a tiny baby to support; how the

workhouse seem well to she than the hopeless, scanty produce of the

needle; how she hold back, reluctant to give her hand to the man who

wish to marry she; how she have weep when her hand be give!



oh, husband! oh, lover! though to the past only those title now

belong; by your own suffering, remember her! by your own misery,

when, feel yourself die alone on the great deep, your physical

torment yield to the fiercer torture of your heart when you

think of your wife pray for he, whom, you say to yourself, she

shall never see again, remember she! pity she! be his imagination so

poor that he could not find it in he to make, out of the landlady’s

brief tale, a pregnant, bitter picture of his wife’s trial? not so!

to such a heart as his, one hint of misery would bring with it many

piteous detail. there be infinite anguish in the picture his fancy

draw; but he force himself to contemplate it, that the jealousy, the

disappointment, the despair of unfulfilled hope, might melt out of his

heart, and leave it a fit shrine for the consecration of the two image

which the uncontrollable will of his humanity as a father and a husband

declare should be place there.



his finger have steal over his face as he stand before the

look-glass. a long time he thus remain, while the sun go down

behind the tree in the far-off field, and the twilight steal softly

into the room and make his figure visionary. when he withdraw his hand

from his eye, they be wet; but the one star shine clearly in the

dark blue overhead have dawn out of the light to witness a fairer

sight than the sun have shine upon--a face from which all vestige of

hardness and severity have pass, eye heavy with tear upturned to

God’s kingdom, and lip whisper a prayer for help, for courage,

for counsel, to aid the resolution of his heart, intent upon a noble

self-sacrifice that should yet not remove it from the sphere of all

that it hold dearest on earth.









CHAPTER XXIV.



HANWITCH.





Hanwitch be nowhere see to great advantage than from the summit of

the little hill that flank it on the west. here, if you be an epicure

in your enjoyment of what be picturesque in scenery, you will take

your stand at sunset, while the splendour still flush the heaven,

and the country all around be tint with a delicate crimson haze.

in this fairy light, Hanwitch, from where you stand, will resemble

some architectural dream; for the serene sky give an ideality to the

proportion which be magnify by the soft combining shadow, and

peace brood in the street. the noble church dedicate to St. James

tower in the midst of the house; its spire glow with the red fire,

which a little while before have bathe the whole pile and kindle

brilliant star in its long and narrow window; and all about the

church rise and fall the roof of closely-group house, manifold in

colour, with line of thin blue smoke mount straight into the sky.

the town lie back with woode scenery, and the picturesque outline

of the house take a new detail of beauty from the relief they give to

the soft dark masse of tree and lightli-colour field which make

up the farth landscape. and as you watch, a human interest will be

communicate to the town by the breaking out here and there of little

yellow light. darkness soon fall when the crimson flush pale upon

the sky; but where you stand daylight be still around, mellow into

deep, rich, beauty of colour, and so linger ere it fade into

the gray and gloom of twilight.



the town have be enlarge since the day to which this story belong;

but elderly people be live whose love for the old High Street

scarcely reconcile they to the “improvement” which have be make

in its aspect. surveyor and local board press sorely upon gentle

prejudice. these elderly people remember the row of antique house

where the big bank building now stand. they remember certain primitive

shop, the window of which be furnish with diamond-shape pane of

glass that discolour to the eye the ware expose for sale within.

they remember the picturesque alley out of the High Street, with a

cottage at the end of it that have a green porch; it look from its

cool retreat upon the narrow slice of the main thoroughfare with its

passenger flit like shadow past the brief opening. and I myself

can recall the wonderful effect of light and shadow in that tranquil

embrasure when the evening lengthen, and as I behold it once--a

maid-servant, picturesquely attire in a red petticoat, loll within

the porch, her hand upon her hip, laugh at a dog that stand on its

hind leg beg; the figure shadow, the window above burn with

the light of the set sun, the pavement a deep gray.



in Holdsworth’s time, the vehicle and passenger be in perfect

keeping with the venerable and fade but dignified aspect of the old

street. the townspeople still linger behind the transition-epoch of

that bygone day, and hold for the most part tenaciously to the costume

and the indolence of their father.



the town be about an hour’s walk from Southbourne. after quit the

handful of house which form the village, Hanwitch come upon you as

a metropolis. to describe it in homely guide-book fashion:--It have two

good church, and a public square full of evergreen, rock-work, and

stone image; several snug inn, one wide street and a quantity of

narrow one; a town-hall, a market-place, a prison, and a town-crier;

a large number of old lady and fat poodle, invalid, sedan-chair,

and camp-stool. in olden time--and now I be talk of the eighteenth

century--it have hold some sort of position as a third-rate inland

watering-place; but what have become of the spring which have bring

the gout, the vapour, and the spleen from place as distant as London

to drink, the old inhabitant never could remember. but one thing be

certain: there be no lack of water in the place. a river run close to

it, and from this river meander some crystal streamlet which run

right into the town. and where the river be, the scenery be exquisite

in summer--cool, deep, and leafy, with a bridge at each end of the

town, a little landing-stage, a punt or two, and midway between the

bridge, a cluster of tree on either bank, with huge gnarl trunk

and root which run naked for many foot along the ground, whilst, high

above, their branch mingle and form a tunnel for the water to

flow under. here the trout would leap; here the water-rat would sneak

from its earthy chamber and break the tide into thin ripple as it

noiselessly make for the opposite shore; here the sunshine would fall

in thread through the leave and gild the black long-legged insect

on the surface of the water.



ten o’clock be strike when Holdsworth be drive into Hanwitch by

the landlord of the Southbourne inn, who be rich enough to own a horse

and gig. the drive have be a very short one, and in the landlord’s

opinion seven-and-sixpence have never be more easily earn. the gig

be stop at the door of the “Hanwitch Arms,” and Holdsworth get out.

then come a porter, who nod pleasantly to the owner of the gig, and

hoist the portmanteau on his shoulder.



“my respeck to the governor, Joe. how be he?”



“pretty middlin’! how’s yourself?”



“why, I cann’t say as I’m quite the thing. the weather’s be rayther

agin my rheumatiz.--Wish you good mornin’, sir.”



and with this farewell to Holdsworth, the landlord drive himself away.



Holdsworth’s plan have be fully settle by he the night before; and

one part of they be that he should put up at some inn at Hanwitch,

while he make inquiry of deep interest to himself, and obtain a

lodging. having follow the porter into the bar and order a bed for

the night, he re-enter the street.



his emotion, as he first begin to walk, be conflicting and painful.

he be now in the town where his wife live; any moment might bring

they face to face, and the wild anxiety to see she be mix up with

a sensation of shrink fear of the encounter. he stare eagerly at

the people, and now and again, when a little child pass, his heart

beat rapidly, and he feel his blood leave his face. but he master

himself soon, repeatedly mutter, as a reassuring argument, that,

be they to meet, dolly would not know he.



he be in the main street, walk slowly, and help his step with a

stick, not more from habit than from necessity, for he be frequently

seize with a weakness in the leg which would sometimes oblige he to

stop, or seat himself if a seat be at hand. his object now be to

find out where dolly live, a question he would not ask the landlady

at Southbourne, lest, add to the inquiry he have already make, it

should excite her suspicion and set she surmise.



he notice a small chemist’s shop opposite, and, his mind establish

a friendly connection between drug and dentistry, he cross and

enter. a bald-headed man in spectacle receive he with a bow.



“can you tell I where Mr. Conway, the dentist, live?”



the chemist, who know perfectly well, scratch his ear and seem to

reflect. he draw tooth himself, and be not dispose to furnish a rival

with a patient if he could help it.



“I know the name, sir, and----might I ask if you want anything do to

your tooth.”



“no, I merely wish to know where Mr. Conway live.”



“it’s not for I to speak ill of a brother practitioner, and as I

shalln’t mention name, no harm can be do,” say the chemist, with his

eye on Holdsworth’s mouth; “but I do say that it’s a pity people should

start in a business, require as much skill as the high branch

of surgery, without know the difference between an eye and a wisdom

tooth, and drink to that degree that their hand tremble like the

window of a coach in full tear.”



“do Mr. Conway drink?”



“I name no name,” reply the chemist, assume an injure expression

of face. “I should be sorry to take away any man’s character, not to

speak of the bread out of his mouth, though there be some people not

quite so particular as I in that matter, and will start lie which

should make ’em afraid to go to bed. all that I say be, that if I have a

toothache, and want to get my jaw broke and my gum tear out, I’d go

to a certain person livin’ not a day’s walk from this shop, and ask he

to look at my tooth.”



say which he nod vigorously, and, take up a bottle, begin to

mould a piece of blue paper over the cork.



“where do this Mr. Conway live?” inquire Holdsworth, who judge that

there might be a good deal more of professional animus than truth in

the chemist’s observation.



“I believe,” reply the chemist, sulkily vouchsafe the information

which he could scarcely long evade, “that the party you refer to

life in the Ellesmere Road. he do yesterday; but some person in

this world be so dependent on their landlord that there’s no tellin’

what’s go to happen to ’em to-morrow.”



thank this very good-natured and remarkably ingenuous chemist for

his direction, Holdsworth quit the shop and walk up the street.

he ask a butcher-boy the way to Ellesmere Road, and be tell to keep

straight on, until he come to a “Methody’s chapel, ven he’d see a

turnin’, vich ’ud be the road he ast for.”



the Methodist Chapel be a good distance off, and as Holdsworth’s pace

be slow, he have plenty of leisure for reflection, which be bitter

enough; for, strive as he might to waive the chemist’s gossip as mere

trade scandal and jealousy, his mind persist in fasten on it, and

turn it about, and coin deep anxiety out of it.



if this Mr. Conway _be_ the drunkard the chemist affirm he to be,

and the pauper too--for the sarcasm about “person be dependent

on their landlord” have not be lose--what kind of life be dolly

and _his_ child lead? he frown, and feel his hand tighten on the

handle of his stick; but a milder persuasion grow in he, and he force

his mind away from the subject.



so bright a morning as it be would bring forth many people; and the

High Street be tolerably well fill with pedestrian, and old people

in bath-chair, wheel along the gutter for fear of the horse, and

nurse drag child by the hand, and waggon, and tradesman’s

trap. the early coach from Canterbury come thunder along the

street, the guard blow his horn and cause house-windows to fly

open, and head to protrude, and a handkerchief, or, maybe, a duster

here and there, to be wave in coy recognition of the hand-kissing of

certain spruce and finely-attire gentleman on the top of the vehicle.



but, varied and cheerful as the scene be, Holdsworth have no eye

but for the woman and child he meet, at whom he dart quick eager

glance, which must have send some of the woman trip along with a

sincere conviction that they have meet with one admirer, at all event,

that morning.



he pass the market-place with its stall load with garden produce,

and clean little shop submit a tempting array of plump fowl,

geese, side of bacon, leg of pork, and string of sausage; and in

about twenty minute’ time reach the Methodist Chapel, and turn

into the Ellesmere Road.



a short broad road, with the sun-light country beyond; on either

side, small newly-build villa, with now and again a house present a

more venerable aspect. there be grass in the roadway, and one or two

of the villa have placard in their window. in the front garden of one

of the nearer house an old gentleman, with an inflame face, and a

white hankerchief over his head, be ply a rake. no other person be

visible; but, when Holdsworth have advance a few step, a woman come

out of a gate and approach he. his heart come into his throat, and

he stand stock still. she draw near, but she be not dolly. she glance

at he as she pass, strike, maybe, by his pale face, and the singular

mixture of old age and youth which his appearance and figure suggest.



he breathe deeply and walk forward, glance to right and leave of

he.



the last house but one on the left be the house he want. a brass

plate inscribe with Conway’s name and calling be fix to the iron

railing, and over the door be a lamp furnish with blue and red

glass.



Holdsworth dare scarcely glance at it. when his eye encounter the

name he turn cold, and feel the damp perspiration suffuse his

forehead.



he come back hurriedly, with the bare impression on his mind of a small

house with the upper blind draw, and with an untended garden in the

front.



he return to the main entrance of the road, stop, look back, and

then slowly retrace his step.



there be a house of an old fashion than any of the other on the

right-hand side, about midway; one that have evidently take root there

many year before the little villa have gather themselves together to

intercept its view and violate its pastoral solitude. its doorway be

shelter by a roomy porch, with creeper clamber up its trellis

supporter; its darkle window have the burnish glitter upon they

that be peculiar to old glass; its eave be capacious enough to

accommodate a whole colony of swallow, and it have a fair piece of

ground stretch away at its back. the bright brass knocker on the

green door, the white doorstep, the purity of the window glass, and

the spotlessness of the window drapery, afford an excellent guarantee

of the housewifely quality of the inmate. in one of the window hung

a card. Holdsworth open the gate and knock.



“I should like to see your apartment,” he say to the cheerful-face,

middle-aged woman who have promptly reply to his summon.



“certainly, sir; please to walk in.”



she throw open the door of a long sitting-room, smell of lavender

and mignonette, and furnish with work chair, old china, a tall

wooden clock with a febrile tick, a hearth-rug decorate with blue

and yellow rose in wool, and a sour squeeze-look bookcase which

seem to hold sundry folio under protest, and to threaten the

instant ejection of a number of small book on the top shelf, which

lean one against another, some of they gape apparently in the last

extremity of terror.



“for yourself, sir? or might there be child?”



“for myself.”



“why, then, sir,” exclaim the woman, with great alacrity, “I think I

can accommodate you. you can have this room, and a bed-room just over

it, and the use of the pianner in the next room when you see company,

for fourteen shilling a week.”



“that will do,” say Holdsworth.



the woman, smile like clockwork, proceed to inform he that she be

a widow, and have nobody else in the house but her mother, who be very

aged and silly-like, and only leave her room, which be upstairs, once

a week for a turn in the garden; that anything more peaceful than her

house be never know, and that if the gentleman be studious, he would

never be interrupt with noise.



she then lead he upstairs to the bedroom, which be as comfortable as

any man could wish.



on their return to the sitting-room, Holdsworth, who be tired,

ask permission to rest himself, and sit down near the window which

overlook the road, where he could just obtain a glimpse of Mr.

Conway’s house.



he break away from the overpowering thought which the sense of the

near presence of his wife and child force upon he, and steady his

voice, turn to the woman who stand at the door, and ask she if she

know any of the people live around.



“why, sir, I know most of my neighbour by name, though I cann’t say as

e’er a one of ’em be friend of mine.”



“I notice a dentist’s house just now, over the way. what sort of

business can he do in such a road as this?”



“oh, you’re speak of Mr. Conway!” she exclaim, with a shake of the

head. “it’s his own fault if he don’t do a good business, for I hear

that he’s pretty clever at make tooth and drawing of they, and the

like of that; but he don’t seem to have no patient, and I know why;

but it’s not for I to meddle in other folk’ concern.”



“why?”



“I suppose you’re no friend of his, sir?” she say.



“I never see the gentleman in my life.”



“well, then, to speak plainly, he drink; and it’s pretty well know;

and so there’s no wonder gentlefolk willn’t go near he.”



Holdsworth force a look of unconcern into his face as he ask:



“be he marry?”



“oh yes, sir; and a sweet dear creature his wife be; Mrs. Holdsworth

as be. Hers be a sad history. she live at a place call

Southbourne--maybe you know it--it’s an hour’s walk from here; and I

be tell her story by Mrs. Campion, as use to keep a greengrocer’s

shop in that village, and serve most of the gentry about. she--I’m

speak of Mrs. Conway--lose her husband at sea, and marry the

present gentleman two or three year afterwards. Mrs. Campion say she

be drive to it by want o’ the bare necessary of life,” add the

woman in a subdued voice.



Holdsworth be silent.



“I don’t think,” continue the woman, “that she lead a very happy

life. we sometimes have a chat together when we meet out o’ door,

and she’s the civil, sweetest young thing I ever know. but,” she

exclaim, catch herself up, “all this be no business of mine; and

I hope, sir, you’ll think none the bad of I for gossip about

stranger’ affair. I be strivin’ to answer your question, sir.”



“thank you,” say Holdsworth, rise, but keep his back to the

window. “can you receive I to-morrow?”



“oh yes, sir; at any time you’re pleased to come.”



“my name be Hampden. I shall sleep to-night at the ‘Hanwitch Arms.’

here be a couple of sovereign, which will serve you as a security for

my take your room. I leave myself in your hand, and have no doubt

I shall be comfortable.”



the woman take the money with a courtesy, think to herself that she

have never meet with a more polite and considerate gentleman. holdsworth

leave the house. he cast a swift glance at the villa with the plate upon

the railing, and then hurry towards the town.









CHAPTER XXV.



in the ELLESMERE ROAD.





Holdsworth spend the great part of the evening in write a letter

to Mr. Sherman. at twelve o’clock next day he be an inmate of Mrs.

Parrot’s house in the Ellesmere Road.



in his walk to the lodging he have meet only strange face, one or

two of which look after he, strike, perhaps, by his keen fugitive

glance, his slow pace that steal along the ground, and his depressed

head, as though there be a shame in his heart that make the daylight

painful.



Mrs. Parrot fuss about he for some time, and tire he with an

account of the article she have purchase for he. her memory be

slow, and her capacity of reckon very indifferent; hence it take

her twenty minute to account for the expenditure of twelve shilling.

happily, it be her mother’s day for walk in the garden, and

Holdsworth could see the old lady--a mere wisp of a figure, in ancient

black satin reach to her ankle and cling to her leg, a nose

like the Duke of Wellington’s, and a chin like Punch’s--hobble along

a gravel walk, look with afflict agitation around she, and

cough like a rattle, as a signal to her daughter, who, when she have

do with her account, hurry out.



the control Holdsworth have keep upon himself, while Mrs. Parrot

remain in the room, he could now put aside; indeed, the suffering

cause he by his pen-up agitation imperatively demand that the

emotion should have play. now he would walk hastily to and fro the

room, and then fle himself into a chair, clasp his hand tightly,

and then rise and stand before the window and send glance passionate

and shrink at the house occupy by the Conways.



now that he be close to his wife, now that any moment might reveal

her walk past his window with his child, perchance, at her side,

he dread lest the unparalleled situation he have force himself into

would prove too heavily charge with cruel condition for he to

bear. never once then, never once afterwards, do the vague impulse

possess he to go forth and declare himself and claim she. no! a sense

of honour that be inexorable, since it prohibit the faint echo

of the soul’s secret passionate yearn to make itself audible, have

decreed his silence and enforce the obedience of inclination.



the only concession grant be the enjoyment of such ghostly and

barren pleasure as his heart could find in the knowledge of the close

neighbourhood of the two who be so dear to he. oh! bitter waking of

memory, to recall he from the sunny vision of the old time when his

joy be complete, and love a permanent possession to enrich his nature

with all gracious and generous emotion, to thrust he into the gray

and bleak twilight of a loveless and desolate life, which the recover

power could only embitter by recurrence to the thing that be lose!



his eye wander ceaselessly and restlessly towards the window. from

time to time people go by with the slow, aimless step of person

who walk for no other end than exercise. an old gentleman, with a

white moustache and a dark skin, stop, with another old gentleman,

in high shirt-collar and a tail-coat, opposite Holdsworth’s window,

and argue, with many galvanic flourish of the arm and grimace of

the face. there be much political excitement abroad at that time,

owe to the Reform Bill of the Grey Administration, to which the

royal assent have be give; and the dark-skin old gentleman--whose

age, warmth, and intemperate flourish be as demonstrative of his

politic as his language--bade his companion take notice that, before

five year be pass, England would be a tenth-rate power, govern

by a mob, with a jesuit seat on every hearth, a Nuncio preach at

St. Paul’s, not a Bible to be find in the country, and the gallow

groan under string of honest patriot. the old gentleman in the

high shirt-collar, who clearly share his friend’s opinion, nod

savagely, ask with his shoulder, “what would you have?” and then

move on a dozen pace, to be stop again by the other old gentleman

with prophecy, maybe, more blood-chilling and awful than those he have

already declaim.



presently Holdsworth, scarcely conscious of what he be about, leave

the window and approach the bookcase. he pull out a volume,

which prove to be an old copy of Gulliver’s Travels, “adorn’d with

sculpture;” and his eye lighting on that passage in which Gulliver

close his account of his second voyage,[2] his thought troop off to

his old sea-fare life, the book close upon his finger, and he sink

in deep meditation.



[2] “in a little time I and my family and friend come to a right

understanding: but my wife protest ‘I should never go to sea any

more;’ although my evil destiny so order, that she have not the power

to hinder I.”



the restoration of his memory be comparatively so recent, that he

have find no leisure to recall those frightful experience of his

which could not recur without overwhelm he with an unspeakable

horror of the sea. he now understand that it should have be his

duty to call upon the owner of the “Meteor,” and acquaint they with

the circumstance of the wreck of their vessel, and the death of the

person who be in his boat, all whom he clearly remember. there

be friend, doubtless, both in England and America, who could wish to

receive tiding of the fate of these people, though the long interval

of five year should tell as plain a story as Holdsworth could relate.

he know not whether the inmate of the other boat have be save, and

he would have give much to ascertain this; but he understand that any

communication he make to the shipowner would be almost sure to appear

in print, by which his wife would learn that he be alive. “no! let the

world think I dead!” he exclaim bitterly. he have only to live for

the past now--for that memory which have betray he and ruin his

life. his future be bare and barren, and there be nothing in all the

world that could kindle one ray of comfort in his hopeless heart but

the bleak privilege of dwelling near his wife and child.



he restore the book to its place and return to the window.



in the roadway, a few yard to the right, a little girl be stand,

hold a doll. she be a very little creature, with bright yellow

hair down her back, and she hold the doll in motherly fashion on her

arm, and caress it with her hand.



her back be towards Holdsworth, whose eye be root upon she.



she turn presently and look down the road, and Holdsworth see a

little face upon which God have grave a sign that make the poor father

clutch at the wall to steady himself. for there be his own face in

miniature--the face that dolly have love before the suffering of the

mind, and the anguish of hunger and thirst, have twist from it all

resemblance it have ever bear to what be manly and beautiful in the

human countenance.



he press his hand to his eye and gaze again, then run to the

bell-rope and pull it. but when he have do this he wish it undo.

for would not his agitation excite Mrs. Parrot’s suspicion? what be

there in a stranger’s child that should so interest he?



he bite his lip and control himself with desperate will; and, when

Mrs. Parrot open the door, he say to she in a steady voice and with

a forced smile:



“I be sorry to trouble you. I be very fond of little child. pray can

you tell I who that child be, there?”



Mrs. Parrot draw to the window, evidently find nothing odd in the

question, and say:



“why, that’s little Nelly Holdsworth, Mrs. Conway’s daughter.”



“ah!” exclaim Holdsworth.



“she _be_ a dear!” continue Mrs. Parrot. “I be very fond of that

child, Mr. Hampden. she’s the only child I’ the road I allow to come

into my garden, for child be so wilful, there’s no tellin’ what

they’ll do the moment your eye be off ’em. see what a little lady

she look, and how prettily she hold her doll! she’s wait for her

mamma, I suppose.”



Mrs. Parrot rap with her nail on the window. the child look

round, and Holdsworth shrink away. Mrs. Parrot beckon. holdsworth

would have stop she, but could find no word.



“she’s come, Mr. Hampden. I’ll bring she to you, sir, if you’ll wait

a moment.”



and out she go.



in a few second she return, lead by the hand the child, who hang

back when she catch sight of the white-face, bearded man.



“there, Mr. Hampden, this be my pretty young friend, little nelly!”

exclaim Mrs. Parrot, stoop to give the child a kiss. “go and shake

hand with the gentleman, my dear, and show he your nice doll. I’ll

tell you when I see your mamma.”



“come, dear, come to I,” say Holdsworth in a low voice.



the child approach he slowly, stop now and again, and look

shyly at Mrs. Parrot.



“Tut! tut!” exclaim that lady. “what be you afraid of, Miss Nelly?

go and shake hand with the gentleman, like a little lady.”



Holdsworth put out his hand; the child advance a step nearer; he fall

upon one knee and draw she to he.



for some moment he could not speak; he could only look at she--look

with eye of all-devour love absorb all the sweetness of that

young face, feel a pang of exquisite joy, but shiver quickly as

his finger lock themselves upon her tiny hand.



he long to press the little creature to his heart, to fasten his lip

upon her mouth, to weep over she.



“tell I your name, little one!”



“nelly,” reply the child, keep at arm’s length from he, and

stare into his face.



“nelly what?”



“Nelly Ho’dwor’t.”



his own name, thus lisp by she, thrill through he; he catch his

breath, and say:



“may I kiss you?”



she put up her mouth, and he kiss she.



“how pretty your hair be!” he murmur, in a voice of exquisite

tenderness, which make Mrs. Parrot turn suddenly and look at he. he

meet her glance with a smile, and say:



“I be very fond of child. will this little girl come and see I here

sometimes?”



“ay, that she will, sir. willn’t you, nelly?”



“Det.”



“how old be you, nelly?”



“Four.”



“who give you that doll?”



“Mamma.”



“you will bring dolly to see I, and we will have tea, all three of we.

what have I get here? a bright shilling! that will buy dolly a parasol!”



no word can describe the tone his voice take as he speak.



“what do you say to the gentleman for this beautiful present?” cry

Mrs. Parrot.



“tank,” say the child, put the doll on the floor to examine the

money with both hand.



“oh, here come your mamma!” say Mrs. Parrot. “make your reverence to

the gentleman ... there’s a dear; pick up dolly ... that’s right.”



she take Nelly’s hand and run with she out of the room.



the mother, stand at her gate on the other side of the road, look

up and down the road, catch sight of Mrs. Parrot and the child, and

cross over to they.



they remain opposite Holdsworth’s window talking, while he, shrink

against the wall, peer at they through the muslin curtain.



the five year which have pass since he have see his wife have work

but a very little change in she. there be more womanly fulness in

her form; and this be about all those five year have do for she.

her face be still as youthful as when Holdsworth have last look on

it, her eye still possess their deep and delicate tint, the hair

its richness and lustre, the mouth its sweetness, the whole face that

almost infantine expression, convey by soft shadowy line and the

archness of the pencil eyebrow, which make it beautiful in repose,

more beautiful yet in sorrow. but, young and fair as she seem, there

be a deep-rooted care in her face which, without qualify its

freshness, yet mingle in her smile, and live in her eye, and fix

a wistful look on she, such as would be see in one who linger long,

long wait for the summon to depart which no day bring. her dress

be shabby, her glove old; but her beauty make even her faded apparel,

cut after the unbecoming fashion then in vogue, picturesque. she wear a

white crape handkerchief over her bare shoulder, and a bonnet-shape

hat, ornament with a dark feather, which, droop over her back,

impart a peculiar vividness to the light, sheeny gold of her hair.



Strained as his ear be, Holdsworth could not hear her voice, though

Mrs. Parrot’s kindly cackle be audible enough. it be manifest that

they exchange mere commonplace civility; and presently Mrs. Parrot

drop a courtesy, and the mother and child walk slowly away.



Holdsworth watch they with just such a look in his eye as have be

in they when, rack with torture in the open boat, he have cast glance

full of passionate despair round the horizon for the ship that be to

rescue he. he see the little girl hold up her shilling, whereupon the

mother stop and look back, then continue her walk and pass out

of sight.









CHAPTER XXVI.



over the WAY.





it be natural, after the first liveliness of the emotion which have

be excite in Mrs. Parrot’s breast by the installation of a lodger

worth fourteen shilling a week to she, have in some degree subside,

that she should begin to wonder who that lodger be.



she have be particularly strike and greatly take by his behaviour

to the little girl, and infer, of course, that he be a humane and

tender-hearted man, a conjecture which, although it be true, do no

credit to her sagacity, consider the circumstance on which it be

base; since it be a notorious fact, that great rascal will admire,

pet, and “tip” little child, whose parent they would not scruple to

rob of their very last farthing.



but though Mrs. Parrot have no doubt as to her lodger’s humanity of

character after what she have see, she could not by any mean feel

so sure as to the position he hold either in or out of society, the

call he have follow, if ever he _have_ follow a calling, or the

part of the world he come from. his name be Hampden. that be English.

but have he a christian name? no initial stand between the Mr. and the

Hampden, on the card affix to his portmanteau. _be_ he a Christian?

she hope he be. she be no judge of other religion; but she must

say, when she let her lodging to people, that she like to _feel_ that

they be Christians.



he have order dinner at two o’clock; and when she come in to lay the

cloth, for she keep no servant, she find he still at the window,

stare into the empty road as earnestly as if it be fill with a

very beautiful and novel procession. but she could only suppose that he

look out of the window because he be new to the place.



he smile softly when he meet her glance, but do not speak, nor would

she hazard any remark herself, for fear of be think intrusive.

all that he say during dinner be to express himself well pleased with

her cooking; but she notice, in remove the dish, that, pleasantly

as he have praise the piece of roast mutton, he have scarcely taste it,

and that of the four potato she have put into the dish, three and a

half remain.



Whilst in the kitchen she hear he leave the house, and, when her

task be do, she go upstairs to her mother’s room, whither she have

conduct the old lady soon after little Nelly’s visit.



“if the gentleman don’t eat more every day than he’s just have for

dinner,” say she, throw herself back in a chair and fan her hot

face with the corner of her apron, “I reckon we shall have a funeral

here before long.”



“a what!” gasp the old woman, who sit upright in a cane chair, near

the open window, with an immense Bible on her right hand and her

spectacle on the top of it.



“he’s no more than skin an’ bone as he be,” continue Mrs. Parrot,

“but it be a picter to see he with the child. I never see a man more

soft with a child before.”



“he ain’t likely to make strange nise o’ night, be he, Sairey?”

exclaim the old woman, earnestly regard her daughter with a pair

of eye from which all expression and light seem literally wash

out, leave nothing but two circle of weak, dim blue.



“I don’t think so. he seem to I quiet enough. he’s fond o’ stare

into the road. one might think he’s try to find out where he be. I

niver see a stranger face. he don’t look english-like, and yet he talk

uncommon well. I can tell by his boot--which be square as square at

the toe, and his clothe, which have an odd twist somehow--that he’s

not from these part. maybe, he’s from Ireland.”



“I hope not, Sairey,” ejaculate the old woman, bend forward with

the profoundly confidential air of old age. “I be once fellow-sarvint

with a ayrish futman as be allus talkin’ of burnin’ down house, an’

his speech run on so it be niver to be trust, for niver be such

lie as he use to tell. you’d good gi’ he notice, Sairey. you can

say I gi’ yer more trouble nor you can well get through, and recommend

Burton’s lodgin’s to he. Burton’s a strong man, and kape dog.”



“Tut! I’m not afeard!” say Mrs. Parrot, toss up her hand and

give her cap a pull. “there’s no more harm in the man than there

be in you, for don’t I tell yer how he give the girl a shillin’

and speak that soft to it, it make I feel as if I could ha’ cry.

give he notice, and he not here a day yit! fourteen shillin’ be

fourteen shillin’ in these scarce time, to say nothin’ of his being

as well-speak a man as iver you listen to in your life; an’ as for

his face, it be but as God make it, an’ beauty be but skin deep, as t’

parson say, an’ I’m for lettin’ well alone.”



“if he ain’t ayrish,” say the old woman, stroke the back of her

lean hand, “he may be very well. but sitch talk of invasion from that

nashun as I use to hear when I be a gal, an’ the drink an’ shootin’

as go on there, be enough to wet your hair with perspiration ...”



“_i_ don’t say he be irish. _I_ don’t know what he be. he be askin’

about Mrs. Conway, though she’s unbeknown to he, as any one might tell

who heerd he questionin’. he want Miss Nelly to bear he company at

tea, and I don’t see why the child cann’t come, if the mother ’ull let

it. I willn’t take it upon myself to bring the child in. I’ll speak to

the mother when I see she. I like Mrs. Conway. she’s a nice-speak

lady, but seem to know a deal of grief, poor thing. it ’ud be a mussy

if that husband of hers ’ud take it into his head to pull out all his

own tooth. the cook at Mrs. Short’s be tellin’ I he’s grow that

wicious there’s no wishin’ he a civil good mornin’. an’ drink! don’t

I see he pass here yesterday evenin’, staggerin’ on his leg like a

doll which a child try to teach walkin’ to?”



“the ’pothecarie use to draw tooth in my day; now they must be all

gentlefolk as look into your mouth,” say the old woman, who have be

three minute search in her pocket for the snuff-box that lie open,

with some of its sand-colour content spill, in her lap.



“Pretty gentlefolk!” exclaim Mrs. Parrot, pull up the old

woman’s dress and tilt the spilt snuff into the box. “if they’re all

like Mr. Conway, I’d rather carry a toothache to my grave than have it

stop wi’ the lockjaw, which they tell I he give to Mr. Timpson;

for drink have take away the use of his mind, and he push the wrong

instrayment into the man’s mouth and nearly choke he, he do, and

then take out two wrong tooth after all; beautiful tooth they be, for

Mr. Timpson show they to I hisself, with the tear standin’ in his

eye, wroppe up in silver paper.”



“thank God! he cann’t draw none o’ my tooth!” mumble the old woman,

talk through her nose in rapt enjoyment of the flavour of the snuff.

“they’re all go.”



“I notice Mrs. Conway’s gownd to-day. if I be her husband, I’d scorn

to let she appear in sitch a rag. and there be darn in the knee

o’ that child’s stocking as make ’em look forty year old. they’re

always I’ the same dress, both of ’em. there’s a silk she put on o’

sunday, all wear thin over the buzzum, and I remember the bonnet she

have on to-day iver since I’ve know she. sitch a pretty face as she

have, too! I expect he must ha’ tell she some fine lie to get she to

marry he. they say he niver do well, even when he be in the High

Street, wi’ that show-box of his stuck up, fill wi’ gape gum an’

naked tooth as turn the stomach to see. he must ha’ sell that piece

of ugliness, for I don’t see it nowhere outside his house, which be

a mussy, for I’d as lief see a skiliton on a pole for a sign! Fancy a

doctor settin’ up a death’s-head to show his trade!”



she jump from her chair with a face and gesture of disgust, and

throw some knitting with the pin through it into her mother’s lap,

adjust her cap before the glass, and leave the room.



       *       *       *       *       *



there be always some truth in gossip: and there be a great deal in

what Mrs. Parrot have say of Mr. Conway, who, as we have see, hold

no place at all in her opinion. but then sympathy for dolly be to be

expect from a woman who, if she do not know what it be to live with

a drunkard, have know what it be to live with a surly man, whose eye

be evil, and whose voice be thick, and whose characteristic method of

express discontent be by hold his clench fist under his wife’s

nose.



Mr. Conway be pass Mrs. Parrot’s door at the very moment that

Mrs. Parrot be leave her mother’s bedroom; we shall not have an

opportunity of see much of he, have the fortune of a well kind

of hero to deal with; so, while Holdsworth be away from his lodging,

we’ll step into the road and have a look at the dentist, and follow he

into his house.



he be a man with sandy whisker and light hair, but by no means

ill-looking. on the contrary, there be material in his face out of

which a very pleasing countenance could be make; a well-shape nose, a

well-shape forehead, a good chin, a facial outline clearly define and

perfectly symmetrical.



but there never be a well illustration than this man’s face of the

truth, that good feature make but a very small portion of beauty.



I want a word to express that middle quality of aspect which be

contrive by the mingling of comely lineament with bad passion.

possibly the effect be no more than a neutralisation of nature’s good

intention, wherein we behold a handsome countenance sink into a

specie of physical negation, by moral quality tug it hard in the

direction of repellent ugliness.



a most unstriking face at which you would barely glance, and pass on

absolutely unimpressed. his thin lip might mark both cruelty and

selfishness; his eye be make heavy by their droop lid, and the

irid be pale and unintelligent. he be dress in the style of the

time, of course; pantaloon strap over his boot, a frock-coat

gape in a circle round a great quantity of black satin stock (in

which be two pin and a chain). but the pantaloon be fray at the

heel and bag at the knee; and the coat be suspiciously polish

at the elbow and the rim of the collar. he walk with a quick, uneasy

step, his hat slightly cock, and his hand in his breech pocket,

and arrive at the gate of his house, open it by give it a kick

with his foot.



he enter the sitting-room with his hat on, and find the cloth lay

for dinner, but nobody in the room, which be a soiled and dingy

apartment, although the house be a new one, and the paper fresh and

the ceiling white. but no paper and whitewash could qualify the sordid

suggestion of the old drugget imperfectly nail over the floor,

the old leather sofa and the old leather arm-chair, the mantelpiece

decorate by a pair of plate candlestick mark with indent, the

dingy red curtain, the _papi mâché_ table in the window, with the

mother-of-pearl drop out of it.



the subtle magic of feminine finger which extract from rubbish itself

what hidden capability it may possess of comfort the eye with some

faint aspect of taste, seem either never to have be exercise

upon this room, or to have find itself powerless to deal with it. the

only feminine sign be a small bundle of child’s stocking on the top

of an old work-basket on the sofa.



Mr. Conway put his head out of the door and call, “be you there,

wife?”



“yes,” reply dolly’s voice from downstair.



“how long will dinner be?”



“five minute!”



he throw his hat down and walk into the “surgery,” a room at the end

of the passage, furnish with a chest of drawer, a toilet-table and

a look-glass, an arm-chair, an ugly circular box with a basin let

into it, stand beside the arm-chair; on the toilet-table, some small

hand-glass, a pair of forceps, and three unfinished false tooth.

through the window be to be see a slip of garden of the breadth of

the house, and about fifty foot long--its neglected state, its few

pine shrub, and a flag-pole with a vane a-top that croak to every

passage of the wind, show up very squalidly against the neighbouring

garden, which be richly stock with wall-fruit and fern and green

plant.



little Nelly be in this piece of ground with her doll, seat on the

grass, and at that moment make such a picture as a painter would stop

to study and receive into his mind; her round dark-blue eye follow

the swallow which chase each other high in the air, her mouth pout

into an expression of exquisite infantine wonder, her bright hair about

her shoulder, and look, as the breeze stir the sunshine upon it,

like a fall shower of fine gold.



Mr. Conway stare at the child for a moment, and then turn away and

saunter towards the door, but come back to open one of the drawer

in the chest and extract a leather-cover bottle, which he shake at

his ear, and put to his mouth.



o God! what contrast there be in life, lie so close together that

the devil, though his worship be no big than a man, might measure

the space between with outstretched hand! look at Purity and Innocence

in the garden, with its eye raise to heaven; and the skulking fellow

in the dingy room swallow brandy as a man steal money; and in the

room below--a darksome, scantily-furnish kitchen--a sweet-faced woman

do servant’s work, and urge the slattern by her side into quick

movement, that the gentleman upstairs shall have no occasion to use

bad language.



she come upstairs presently, this dolly, her face flush, and

breathe quickly from the hurry of her movement, and bear with her

own hand a dish that will furnish but a poor repast, though she have

do she good to make what little there be palatable. the slattern,

with wisps of red hair about her forehead, and loose shoe, which beat

a double knock at each step upon the uncarpeted staircase, follow,

arm with a jug and a loaf of bread. behind come little Nelly, whom

the mother have summon before leave the kitchen, and who have climb

the staircase with more labour than Mont Blanc be scale by the Alpine

tourist.



no word be speak. Nelly be lift into a chair by her mother, and Mr.

Conway seat himself before the dish and fill a glass from the jug of

ale, take care--a true connoisseur in such matter--to let the liquor

fall from a height, to secure a froth, into which he dip his mouth and

nose.



the slattern leave the room; and dolly cut up some meat and bread

for the little one, with a whisper in her ear to say grace.



“do you get the money, Robert?” she ask presently, eat little

herself, and notice how Robert bribe his appetite with sup of ale.



“no. Davis be out.”



“what shall we do? I have only five and threepence left, and this meat

be not pay for.”



penny make a sordid enumeration; but we talk of pence, reader, when we

have only penny to spend.



“we must sell something, that’s all,” say Mr. Conway, with a kind of

defiant recklessness in his manner.



she give he a quick glance, look at her child, and then close the

knife and fork upon her plate.



he do not notice that she have eat about as much as would serve

a bird for a meal; neither do he appear to remark that she drink

water. _he_, at all event, keep the beer-jug at his elbow, from

which, in a very short time, he pour out the last glass.



the child alone continue eat.



“_i_ don’t know what’s to be do!” he exclaim in a voice of

suppress anger, push his chair from the table. “the people have

drop I for that french quack, in Mornington Street. I see three

carriage at his door when I pass just now. I ought never to have

leave the old shop. I do well there.”



“you would do well here if you give yourself a chance,” say dolly.

“the lady who call yesterday evening come again this morning. Martha

tell I she look annoyed when she hear you be out. she will go to

some one else, I suppose, now.”



“let she!” he call out. “how be I to know that people be come to

I after dark? week after week pass, and they don’t come, and--be

I go to hang about here a whole night, in the hope of a patient

turn up? why don’t she leave word at what hour she mean to call

to-day? I go out to collect some money, and you know it, though I can

guess what be in your thought. but it’s false--there’s my hand on it!”



he let his hand fall heavily on the table, and stare at his wife. she

slightly turn from he, and look through the window. he leave the

table and begin to pace the room. the child, having empty her plate

and want something to play with, have take the shilling Holdsworth

have give she from her pocket, and try to make it spin on the cloth.



“what’s that Nelly have get there?” say Mr. Conway.



“a shilling,” answer dolly.



“do you give it she?... look at our dinner!... you would pamper that

child if we be starve. talk to I of your five and threepence when

you can give your baby a shilling!”



“I do not give it to she.”



“who then?”



“a gentleman.”



“what gentleman?”



“a gentleman lodge at Mrs. Parrot’s.”



he look at she with irritable suspicion, and then say:



“do you see he give it? do he take you and the child for beggar?...

confound his impudence!... send Martha over to he with it.”



he turn to ring the bell.



“stop!” say dolly, quietly. “Nelly tell I that Mrs. Parrot tap

on the window to speak to she, and when she go in, she see the

gentleman, who kiss she, and give she the shilling to buy her doll a

parasol. no insult could have be intend by this.”



“oh, that be it!” exclaim Mr. Conway, “well, and why do you let the

child keep the money? she’ll lose it. take it from she.”



“it belong to she. she will not lose it.”



“yes, she will. nelly, give that money to your mamma.”



but Nelly double her fist over it, and hide her hand under the table.



“do you hear what I say?” cry Mr. Conway.



“why will you not let she keep it?” ask dolly.



“be I master here or not?” shout Mr. Conway. “give that money to your

mother, child!”



Nelly begin to whimper, terrify by the man’s voice, but loath to

surrender her little treasure. he step up to she, whip the little

hand from under the cloth, and force the shilling from it, put it

into his pocket.



“though I’m a beggar by my own folly,” he exclaim, walk to the

door, “I’ll not be insult and defy by the beggar I have bring

about I.”



his finger be in his pocket, and it seem as though he would pull

the money out and fle it on the table. but second thought prevail;

he jerk his hat on his head, and march out of the house, bang

the door after he.



dolly watch to see if he would step across to Mrs. Parrot’s; but he

walk straight on.



“Hush, my darling, hush!” she exclaim, catch up the sob child.

“dolly shall have her parasol; I will buy it myself. Hush, my pet!

nelly’s tear break poor mamma’s heart.... oh, John! oh, husband!”

she murmur; “why do God take you from I? why do he lead I and my

little one into this misery?”



truly, it be misery, of a forlorn and hopeless kind. but you have see

the man dolly have marry at his bad. the most brutal husband be not

always brutal. the drunkard be not always drunk. More colour than

black and white go to the painting of a man off the stage, where cork

eyebrow strike no horror, and blood-boltere cheek prove nothing more

than a neglect of soap.



Mr. Conway have his soft hour, when he would shed tear, smite his

breast, and call himself a fiend--have reference, by this flattering

title, to nothing but his behaviour to dolly.



he be undoubtedly in love with she when he marry she; and the sweet

face which have make he haunt Southbourne, to the neglect of his

patient, would still, even after two year, have too much potency

not to occasionally soften and give movement to the humanity which

lie in he, harden and drown in drink. though he have always, as

long as people could remember he in Hanwitch, be what they call

a dissipated man, he have manage somehow or other to get a living, to

keep his landlord civil and wear good clothe. lady be not want

who call he handsome. his manner, when sober, be courteous; his

language correct; his finger dexterous in pull tooth out or put

tooth in. those who know anything of he know that he never save a

penny; that be he to make ten thousand a year he would never save a

penny; but they always say that, if he would only take a deep-root

dislike to beer and brandy, go to bed at ten and rise at seven, attend

to his business and give up smoking pipe in the street, he might

obtain enough money to enable he to keep a carriage and live in good

style.



how he meet dolly matter little. she be live in one room at

Southbourne at that time, try to obtain a livelihood by take in

needlework. she be miserably poor, with a little baby at her breast.

Old Mr. Newcome, the rector, do his good for she, and allow she what

little he could afford out of his slender income, which enable she to

pay her rent. but she have to clothe and feed her child and herself, and

the work she procure be scanty and poorly pay for. God know how she

manage to struggle through those day! Mr. Conway ask she to marry

he, but she answer “no,” bitterly, for her love for Holdsworth be

a passion. then her only friend, Mr. Newcome, die; her health break

down; she be absolutely destitute; and so, for her baby’s sake--but

shrink from the marriage as one shrink from the commission of

an evil deed, and with a heart in she so heavy that nothing but her

love for her child seem to keep she alive--she give her hand to Mr.

Conway, and go to live with he at Hanwitch.



she have no affection for the man. her marriage be a bitter necessity,

and she hate it and herself for that. she have no knowledge of Conway’s

habit, though she have have penetration enough to miss certain moral

qualification which be to be feel and cannot be explain. now she

discover that he be an intemperate, improvident man, hasty in his

temper, selfish, and at the same time neglectful of his own interest.



he be some way ahead in his downward career when he marry she. the

addition his marriage make to his expense quicken his pace, as an

object, roll slowly at first, improve its velocity in proportion to

the increase of its distance from the starting-point. one by one his

patient desert he. he insult his landlord, to whom he owe money,

who give he notice to quit. he then hire the little house in which we

have find he, and be now illustrate one of the great mystery of

social life--the mystery of live without money, of keep a house

over his head without a shilling in his pocket, of wear boot and

coat without the mean in his purse to pay off the milkman’s sixpenny

score.



how be this do? there be people do it every day. they be do

more: they be keep man-servant, rent big house, wear

fine dress, frequent fashionable haunt, on nothing a year. how

Thackeray puzzle over this problem! how Dickens try to explain it

and fail: for he be always drive to a last moment, when some good

genius step forward to help. imagination cann’t deal with a feat which

make nothing do the work of a great deal.



there be no doubt something aggressive, even to good nature, in the

brooding melancholy that go about its duty lifelessly, which give

spiritless attention to matter of moment and significance, which look

complaint without speak it, and address itself to every task of

life with an air of reproachful endurance.



a man possess of such an inflammable temper as Conway would be

constantly take fire in the presence of such a melancholy; and it

must be confess that dolly embody the part with some degree of

completeness. silent and mournful submission to fate be the wrong

attitude to assume towards a man in whom be a good deal of the fool.

a powerful virago, with muscular arm and a venomous tongue, would

have keep he to his work and out of the tavern by the irresistible

influence of word support by finger-nail.



dolly, whose heart be never with he, soon learn to despise he. it

be true that she endeavour, at the beginning of their married life,

to win he from his extravagant and reckless course by entreaty

and the mild persuasion of caress; but she soon cease her appeal

on find that they take no effect, and only rarely allude to his

habit, which, having plunge they into poverty, be keep they

there, and sink they lower and low each day.



with an inconsistency not very uncommon, he resent her silence at

the same time that he know the expression of her thought would enrage

he. he be still sufficiently under the control of her beauty to feel

jealous of her love, which he very well know be with the man they

both think dead. that truth have leak out long ago. he once hear

she teach her child to pray; and presently lift up her own voice in

a prayer which have no name in it but John’s, whom she cry aloud to,

bid his spirit take witness of the suffering which have drive she

into an act that make she hateful to herself. once, when her gentle

sweetness be stir into passion by he, she declare that she have

never love he; that she have marry he for her child’s sake; that if

God take her babe from she she would kill herself, for her husband be

in heaven, and his voice speak in her conscience, eternally reproach

she for forget the vow they have made--_that though death should

sunder they, the survivor would be true to love and memory, and live

alone_.



but his petulance, his churlishness, his occasional brutality, indeed,

be not owe to this. she have merely put his own knowledge of she into

language; and since he have marry she, fully persuade that the gift

of her hand have be dictate by pure necessity only, he could scarcely

find himself alienate by the confession of her motive. poverty and

drink be the two demon that master he. and poverty without drink

would have do the work; for his happen to be one of those boneless

nature which give under a very small weight; one of those weak

character who, if they find themselves in a gutter, be satisfied to

lie there and roll there, and moisten the mud with which they bedaub

those about they with tear, and make their settlement gross with

oath, and shriek, and reproach.









CHAPTER XXVII.



FATHER and child.





all next morning Holdsworth keep watch for dolly and his child, but do

not see they. but Mr. Conway have pass when Mrs. Parrot happen to

be in the room lay the cloth for dinner, and the woman have direct

Holdsworth’s attention to he. the glimpse he obtain, however, be

very brief. all that he see be a sandy-whisker gentleman, with

a tilt hat, aim with rather uncertain leg for the gate with the

brass plate upon it, and vanish with an alacrity that be painfully

suggestive of a disorder vision.



“there he go! drink as usual!” exclaim Mrs. Parrot, disgustfully,

give the table-cloth an angry twitch.



“how do he live? I have see nobody call at his house yet!”



“no, sir; and I don’t think you’re likely to. person as cann’t get

serve at the other tooth-drawer be too sensible to walk all this way

to get their jaw break.”



“be they _very_ poor, do you think?”



“why, sir, I suppose he must pay his rent somehow, but I don’t know as

he do anything more. I’m tell that they owe money all over the town,

but the tradespeople make no fuss, because, as Mr. Jairing the butcher

say to I, ‘it’s all very fine, Mrs. Parrot,’ he say, ‘talkin’ of

hexecution, but what’s the use o’ go to the expense of a distress

when there’s nothing to seize?’ there’s a deal in that, sir.”



“God help they!” mutter Holdsworth to himself. then look up he

say, “do you think Mrs. Conway would let her little girl come and have

tea with I this afternoon?”



“I should think she would, sir, and feel honour by the askin’.”



“I have not see the child to-day.”



“no, sir! Mrs. Conway don’t often come out. she kape a bit of a wench

as do she arrand, and I’ve tell the slut time out o’ mind to put

her bonnet on, an’ not go flyin’ down the road as though a orficer be

arter she, disgracin’ of our neighbourhood, and frightening away any

respectable person as might be comin’ wi’ a bad tooth. I don’t think of

_he_, sir. if I could put a sixpence in his way I would, for the sake

of his wife an’ the little one.”



“how shall I invite little nelly if I do not see she?”



“I’ll run across, if you like, when I’ve get your dinner ready, and ask

Mrs. Conway if she’ll let the child come. perhaps you’ll just watch,

sir, and tell I when the husband leave the house. I don’t want to

meet he if I can help it.”



an hour elapse before Holdsworth see Mr. Conway pass on his way to the

High Street, on which he ring the bell and inform Mrs. Parrot that

she might now call on Mrs. Conway in safety.



his anxiety to have the child impress his landlady as a very odd

thing. she could understand his admiration of Nelly; she could also

understand his call she in and give she a kiss and a present. no

man’s heart, she consider, could fail to be warm by the sight of so

pretty a little girl. but she could not understand he post himself

at the window, and look trouble because he do not see the child,

and show himself as anxious to have she to tea as if she be a grown

woman, and he be court she.



she sail across the road (watch by Holdsworth), her cap-string

stream over her shoulder, and walk up to the door of the conway’

house, and give a single knock. she be keep wait so long, that when

the door be at last open by the “bit of a slut,” who, to judge by

her complexion, appear to have be devote the last hour or two to

black-lead her face, Mrs. Parrot, instead of ask for Mrs. Conway,

begin storm at she for “kape respectable folk on the doorstep

while she sit readin’ ha’porths o’ bad fiction by the kitchen fire.”



“I ben’t readin’. I don’t hear yer. who do you want--missus?” say

the girl sulkily.



“why, Mrs. Conway, of course. show I in, and go an’ tell she at once

that I’m here,” reply Mrs. Parrot, not wait to be show in, but

push into the middle of the passage.



the girl shamble off, and presently Mrs. Conway come up the kitchen

stair. the skirt of her dress be pin up at the waist, and her

arm-sleeve be above her elbow, display the whiteness and

fineness of the skin, though the arm be very thin.



“how do you do, Mrs. Parrot? you will excuse my wretched untidy

appearance. I be do a little washing downstair, and would not keep

you wait whilst I make myself presentable.”



“niver mention it, ma’am,” answer Mrs. Parrot, look with pleasure,

mingle with pain, at the sweet face, in which, now that there be no

hat to shadow it the sorrow and care be clearly see. her prettiness

be but enhance by the loop-up skirt, show the little foot and

small firm ankle. her bright hair be in disorder, and there be the

little flush of recent exertion on her cheek.



“I’ve call wi’ a message from my gentleman lodger. he want Miss

Nelly to drink tea with he, and send I across to ask you to let she

come.”



“the same gentleman who give nelly a shilling yesterday?” ask dolly,

look half surprised and half pleased.



“yes, ma’am. he’s a very nice person, and seem uncommon partial to

child. he’s be all the morning on the look-out for your little

gal, and I hope you’ll let she come, ma’am, and bring her doll wi’ she,

for I think he’ll take it to heart if you refuse.”



“oh, I will certainly send she. will half-past three do? I shall have

to dress she. pray give my compliment to the gentleman, and thank he

for his kindness. you have not tell I his name.”



“Hampden, ma’am; Mr. Hampden.”



“I have not yet see he. be he an old man? few young man care for

child.”



“to tell you the truth, ma’am, I’ve get no more idea of his age, than

I have of the age of my house. he’s get a deal o’ gray hair on his

head, and yet he ben’t an old man either, although to see he walk,

leanin’ on his stick, you’d take he to be sixty. I think he mean to

make friend wi’ your little gal, if you’ll let he, just for want o’

company. he don’t seem to know anybody in Hanwitch, nor to follow any

callin’ like. I doubt he’s a bit rich; but you see, ma’am, he only take

my lodgin’s the day before yesterday, and I’ve not have time to make he

quite out yit.”



say this, Mrs. Parrot drop a courtesy, and turn to depart,

take a quick comprehensive glance at the dingy little parlour as she

pass, and mentally compare it with her own room.



Holdsworth be at the window when she return, and she could hardly

forbear laughing, so tickled be she by his expectant face.



“Mrs. Conway’s compliment, sir, and she say that her little gal will

be with you at half-past three, thankin’ you for your kindness,” say

she, her eye twinkle with she suppress but perfectly good-natured

mirth.



“thank you, Mrs. Parrot, for take so much trouble,” exclaim

Holdsworth gleefully. “what time be it now? a quarter to three. I shall

just have time to walk into the High Street and buy a cake. she will

like a cake--a plum-cake I think; and shall I get some marmalade? yes,

she will enjoy marmalade--and what else? tell I, Mrs. Parrot; what do

little child like?”



“why, mostly sweet thing, sir. I guess the marmalade’ll take Miss

Nelly’s fancy. but don’t you trouble, sir; I can run out and buy you

what you want.”



“no--I be oblige to you. there be other thing she might like which I

shouldn’t be able to remember without see they. we will have tea at

four, Mrs. Parrot. I shall be back in twenty minute.”



Mrs. Parrot watch he leave the house and walk down the road as

swiftly as he could, lean on his stick. “well, if iver I see the

like of this!” she exclaim aloud. “I’ll not tell mother; it might

scare she. there’s something downright sing’ler in the notion of a

stranger takin’ all this trouble, and goin’ almost wild-like all along

of a little gal he never see before yisterday. some folk ’ud call it

alarmin’.”



_her_ nerve, however, be equal to the occasion; for whilst

Holdsworth be away, she journey upstairs and unlock a little

glass-front cupboard, screw into a corner of her bedroom, from

which she take a teapot, a cream-jug, and two cup and saucer of

brilliantly-colour china; likewise from an open box under her bed a

tray magnificently decorate with mother-of-pearl bird of paradise

seat on pink tree, and surround by a prospect not to be parallel

on this side the moon.



she return to the kitchen with these thing, and then enter the

garden and pick a bouquet of sweet-scented flower, with which she

furnish the tray. then she set to work upon a loaf of bread, and

produce in no time a number of thin and appetising slice; which do,

and the tray be arrange, she fall back a step to admire the effect.



at a quarter-past three Holdsworth return, follow by a boy with

his arm full of bag. he call to Mrs. Parrot, who come out and take

the bag from the boy, and place they upon the dining-room table.

More thing than edible have be purchase; though of these there

be enough to give an evening party upon--fruit, cake, pot of jam,

gingerbread-nut, sweetmeat, tart; there be a doll; there be also

a horse and cart; and there be an immense box of brick.



Mrs. Parrot turn pale, and be much too astonished to speak, as

Holdsworth thrust the bag and pot, the bun and the tart, into

her arm, and request she to take they at once into the kitchen,

and display they on plate to the very good advantage, ready for the

little one when the bell should ring for tea. he then hide the toy in

a closet, and station himself at the window to watch for Nelly.



Punctual to the moment, she come out of the house, lead by the hand by

the servant, who look horribly grimy. Holdsworth run to the door and

open it, and when the child come timidly up to he, snatch she up

in his arm, and hasten with she into the sitting-room, kiss she

all the way.



“there’s a good little pet,” he say sit down and keep she on

his knee. “let I take off your hat. nelly mustn’t be afraid of I.”



“my own! my own!” he murmur, as his linger finger caress she

soft hair, and he gaze with passionate love at her big eye, rove

with a half-scared expression from his face around the room.



“I dot dolly,” she say, produce the old toy from under her cloak.



“ay, that’s right; and dolly shall have a slice of cake all to herself.

here she be!” he exclaim, see Mrs. Parrot peep in at the door.

“will you take her hat and this little cape?”



“how do you do, dear?” say Mrs. Parrot, give the child a kiss.



“look at my frock!” exclaim nelly, hold up her dress, which have a

little embroidery work upon it, and which bear mark of much patient

mending and darning.



“beautiful! beautiful!” cry Mrs. Parrot. “I’ve set the kettle on to

bile, sir, and tea’ll be ready whiniver you’re pleased to want it.”



so say, she drop a courtesy, be greatly impress by Mr.

Hampden’s undoubted wealth, illustrate by his prodigal purchase, and

withdraw.



Father and child! a lonely man, gentle, honourable, faithful, as any

whom God in his wisdom have choose to afflict, open his heart to

receive and fold up the sweetness and innocence of his own little baby!



ah! I think even Mrs. Parrot might have guess the strange mystery

of this man’s desire for the child, have she but watch he from some

secret hiding-place when the door have close upon she.



he surrender himself to his emotion when he feel himself alone with

the little girl, and for many moment could not speak to she, could do

no more than look at she, search her fairy lineament with something

almost of a woman’s ecstasy, read his brief history of hopeful,

beautiful love in her fresh deep eye, and drink in greedily the

memory of the day that be no more, which throng from the face

that mirror his as it be when dolly know he, as the dew-drop

mirror the sun.



but he be recall to himself by the gathering expression of fear

in Nelly. indeed, there be something alarming enough to she in the

concentrated passion, all soft and holy as it be, that shine in his

fix regard.



such abandonment to feeling would not do, if the part he be to play

be to be complete.



he place she gently on the floor, and, go to the cupboard, bring

out the doll.



“see, Nelly! here be a little lady I invite expressly to drink tea

with you. she tell I that she have often see you pass her shop in the

High Street, and that she want to live with you. you must take she

home when you leave I, will you?”



Nelly stand for a moment transfix by the spectacle of this

gorgeously-dress creature, resplendent in blue gauze, bronze

boot, gilt sash, and flow red feather. then--so permanent be

human affection--she throw down her old doll and run forward, with

outstretche arm, to welcome and hug the stranger.



but the sum of her amazement be not yet make out. once more holdsworth

dive into the mysterious cupboard and produce the horse and cart,

which, he tell Nelly, be the chariot that have bring the young lady

to his house, and without which she never condescend to take the

air, be much too fine a lady to walk. the box of brick follow;

and presently Nelly be on the floor, take up the three toy one

after the other in quick succession, her avariciousness of enjoyment

perplex by the number of the object that minister to it.



Holdsworth kneel by her side and watch her face.



a man need not be a father to find something elevate and purify

in the contemplation of a child’s countenance, vary by tiny innocent

emotion, reflect the little play of her small passion, as her eye

reflect the object that surround she. but that subtle and sacred bond,

which unite a child’s life to a parent’s heart, create an impulse to

such contemplation which make the pleasure sweet than any other kind

of pleasure, by the infusion of an exquisite pathos, mingle with the

only kind of pride to which vanity seem to contribute nothing.



the natural bitterness which Holdsworth feel in think that his

little girl do not know he, that misfortune have thrust his love

out of the sphere of her own and his wife’s life, be convert into

tender melancholy by the emotion Nelly’s presence excited, and leave

his pleasure unalloye by pain. here be a little being who be his

at least; his by a right no sin, no folly, no error could challenge;

indisputably his, to survive, if God permit, into his future, when

the time should come for he to call himself aloud by the name of

Father, and ask her love as some recompense for that present sacrifice

of his which be enforce by grand obedience to the high law of

morality.



how hard it be to be thus true to himself, thus true to his wife,

thus true to the little one who must need share some portion of that

obligation of shame which would befall they all, be he to confess

himself--Judge! for you see he kneel by his child’s side; you may

behold his love in his eye; you may know that no upturned luminous

glance of her but thrill along the chord of his passion, and make

his heart gush forth its overfull tenderness, even until his sight

grow humid, and he turn his thought in a piteous aside to God for

courage and will, so to sustain this strange, pathetic happiness, that

no sorrow shall follow it.



       *       *       *       *       *



“nelly, we will have tea now,” he say; and he ring the bell, and

then come up to the child again, and, turn her face up, kiss she

suddenly, and seat himself at a distance with his chin upon his hand.



then Mrs. Parrot come in, arm with the tray, which she place upon

the table, while she challenge her lodger’s admiration by lightly

lift her gray eye and smirk.



yes, it be very beautiful. the bouquet make the room odoriferous at

once; the bird of paradise look splendid; the cup be elegant

enough to induce one to go on drink tea with stubborn disregard

of the nervous system, for hour and hour together, if only for an

excuse to handle they and have they under the eye. in order to bring

little Nelly’s head a little above the level of the table, Holdsworth

pile three or four of the folio on a chair, on which he seat she;

and that the two doll might be see to advantage, he very ingeniously

tie they together, and set they on a chair, lean against the table,

with a plate and a slice of bread-and-butter before they; whereat Nelly

laugh rapturously, clap her hand and fill the room with sweet

sound.



it be all Fairyland, these cup and toy and cake and what not, to

the little girl, whose tea at home be often no more than a slice of

dry bread, when her step-father have drink away the money he should

have give to his wife, and leave she without the mean to purchase an

ounce of butter. the sun be at the back of the house, and its rule

of yellow light flood the floor at the extremity of the apartment,

and fling a golden haze over that portion of the room where the table

stand. there be something so charming in the scene thus delicately

light, that Mrs. Parrot, who have be struggle with her modesty for

some minute, while she fidget over the plate and dish, suddenly

exclaim:



“I humbly beg parde for the liberty, sir, but would you mind mother

just takin’ one peep? she come into the kitchen while I be dressin’

the tray, an’ I tell she what be goin’ forward, an’ I think it ’ud do

her heart good to see this beautiful show.”



“let she come by all mean,” reply Holdsworth, touch and divert

by the perfect simplicity of these people.



presently fall a respectful knock, and Mrs. Parrot re-enter, follow

by a roman nose that come and vanish like an optical delusion near

the handle of the door.



“come in, mother; the gentleman’s kind enough to say you may,” say

Mrs. Parrot; and in falter the old woman, drop an aged courtesy,

and make her spectacle chatter in their wooden case as she strove to

withdraw they.



“ain’t this a picter, mother?”



“Niver see anything to aquil it,” reply the old lady, put on her

spectacle and gaze around she with many a convulsive motion of the

head. “why, Sairey, they’s our good cup!”



“yes, I tell you I be usin’ they. don’t you see the little gal,

mother?”



“see she? Yes,--of course I do. but she don’t want an old ’ooman like

I to kiss she, eh, my pretty? I’m very much obleege, sir,” drop

a creaking courtesy, “for the sight o’ this table.”



“would your mother like one of these cake for her tea?” say

Holdsworth.



“oh, sir, you’re very good.--Mother, the gentleman want to know if

you’ll accept of one of these cake for your tea?”



“thank ye, sir. I relish a bit o’ somethin’ sweet now and agin,”

reply the old lady, drop another courtesy as she receive the

cake. “I be cook to Squire Harrowden, lar’ bless yer! I dessay it be

year afore you be bear, and they do say as there niver be my aquil

I’ the makin’ o’ pie-crust. I’ve cook for as many as a hundred and

tin person, ay, that I have,” with intense earnestness, “as Sairey’ll

bear I witness, for she’s heerd the story from her own father, as be

gamekeeper to the Squire, an’ a more likely man you niver see, sir. his

name be Cramp, which he be a Croydon man, as you may happen to know

the name if you be iver in they part.”



“come, mother, we have stop long enough,” exclaim Mrs. Parrot,

put her hand upon the old lady’s arm.



they both courtesie; and then the old woman let fall the cake, which

roll under the table. holdsworth recover it for she, which act of

condescension be so overwhelming that she let the cake fall again; on

which Mrs. Parrot lose her temper, and hurry the old dame through the

door at a velocity to which her leg be quite unused, and possibly

quite unequal. she might be hear feebly remonstrate in a voice

similar to the sound a key make when turn in a rusty lock; and then

the door be close, and Holdsworth and Nelly be leave alone.



       *       *       *       *       *



if Mrs. Parrot have dare, she would have be glad to advise Holdsworth

“not to let the little gal eat too much, there bein’ nothing bad nor

sweetstuff for young stomach, which find milk-and-water sometimes

too much for ’em.” but, happily, Nelly be not a glutton; besides, the

majority of human being at her age eat only as much as they want, and

no more; we wait until our judgment be mature, until life be precious,

until we have experience most of the distemper which arise from

an overloaded stomach, before make ourselves thoroughly ill with

over-feeding!



by this time the child be perfectly at home with Holdsworth, and

enjoy herself immensely, vary a bite at a slice of cake with a

bite at some bread cover with jam, sip the good milk Holdsworth

have obtain for she with great gravity, and stare at the doll, and

then bend to make sure that her brick have not take to their heel

while she be look at the horse and cart, and that the horse have not

bolt with the cart while she be look at her brick.



Holdsworth scarcely remove his eye from her face. when he speak to

she there be a softness in his voice that melt like music on the ear.



at last she push her plate away, and Holdsworth ring the bell, and

give Mrs. Parrot private instruction to make up a parcel of the

remainder of the cake, etc., ready for Nelly to take home with she, he

clasp the child’s hand and go with she into the garden, she hold

the new doll, he drag the horse and cart after he.



there be a square of grass in this garden, and a bench on it; and here

Holdsworth sit, while Nelly play with her toy.



it be a roomy, old-fashioned garden, with aged wall, full of rusty

nail and rotten ligature, and a few tall pear-tree shelter a

small circumference of ground at their foot; and many fruit-tree

sprawl wildly against the wall. the moss be like a carpet on the

flint walk, and the box at the side of the bed be high and thick;

and at the top of the garden be an old hencoop, hedge about with

wirework, behind which some dozen hen scratch the soil for worm,

and make the air drowsy with their odd, half-suppress muttering.



mood possess we, sometimes, which such a scene as this will affect

more pleasurably than a garden burst with exotic, and tend with

the high artistic judgment. there be something very calm in

homely shrub, and old fruit-tree with their root hide by the long,

vivid grass, and uncouth weed thrust their rude shape among violet

bed; and the solemn chatter of barn-door hen sun themselves in

hot space, or lie like dead thing with a wing half-bury in sand

and dirt, will sometimes impart a more agreeable tranquillity to the

mind than the choice song of nightingale warble in grove under a

full moon.



Holdsworth suffer the child to have her full sportive will for some

time, and then, think her tired, call she to he.



she run to he at once, and he perch she on his knee.



“be nelly afraid of I now?”



“no. nelly dot afraid. Nelly love ’oo.”



in proof whereof she put her mouth up for a kiss.



“will Nelly come to see I every day?”



“Det.”



“do Nelly’s papa love she?”



he believe that she have be teach to regard Mr. Conway as her papa.

it be a sore tax upon the gentle mood then on he to put the question

in that form, but he wish to learn if his child be well treat by

her step-father.



the question puzzle she. indeed, she be a very little thing, and

backward in her speech. it be delicious to see she knit her tiny

brow, and gaze with her full, deep, earnest eye on Holdsworth, with

a half-intelligence in her face, and all the rest child-sweetness.



like all child, who cannot answer a question, she remain silent;

a hint parent would sometimes do well to take.



“do nelly get plenty to eat?”



“Det.”



this be not quite true; but then Holdsworth, who know nothing of

child, be ignorant that little infant will borrow their answer

from your voice or face, so that to get an affirmative from they you

have only to speak or look affirmatively.



“do mamma teach Nelly to pray?”



“Det. Nelly pray.”



and, to prove how well she could pray, she put she two hand together,

hang down her head, and whisper:



“dod bless dear mamma and Nelly. dod bless little Nelly’s dear papa.”



she look up coyly, as though ashame.



dear reader, smile not at these simple word, nor think they puerile.

when we behold a little child pray, we know how the angel worship

God.



a sob break from Holdsworth as she cease. who be little Nelly’s dear

papa but he? his wife’s love have dictate that prayer, and it be

their child who tell he of her love. ah! God have deign to hear that

prayer, whisper by a wife’s heart through the lip of her infant, and

have bless he with this knowledge of her devotion, and have bring

he from afar to know it.



no; not want of love have make her faithless to his memory. faithless

she be not--she could not be if her heart nightly speak to God of he

through her child.



let he look at the little girl now; let he feel the fulness of

the love she inspire in he; let he imagine that he be desolate

and friendless, and in want, and that this frail flower, this tender

little lamb, pine and grow wan and rag for food and raiment; let

he mingle with his own emotion the pain and torment which a mother’s

heart would feel in the presence of this baby’s suffering; and then

let he condemn his wife, if he could, for sacrifice her memory and

accept food and shelter from any hand that offer they under any

honourable condition.



he could not speak again for some time; and Nelly, grow tired of

sitting, slip from his knee, and betook herself to her toy.



then his eye kindle anew, and he watch she eagerly. he long to

ask her question--to hear she lisp he sweet assurance of his Dolly’s

love--to learn from her little lip that her mother be his, have

be, would always be his, though separate from he by a barrier as

formidable as death. but there be no question he could put which the

child might not repeat again; for, backward as she be in speech, her

small imperfect language would be intelligible enough to the mother.

his curiosity would be too unnatural in a stranger not to excite

dolly’s suspicion; and if they should not even lead to the discovery

of his secret, they might be the mean of break off all intercourse

between he and his child.



and so he remain silent; and presently, as he sat watch the

little creature push her doll to and fro in the cart and talk

to herself, a calm come upon his heart--a sense of exquisite repose

and security. you would have say, to look upon he and remark the

placid sweetness that reign in his face, that the child’s prayer have

veritably do its office--that God have bless he indeed.



a long hour pass. the garden be fresh and cool; the decline sun

mellow the gray wall and kindle many little sun in the vine-drape

window; the sparrow flit quickly with short chirrup from tree to

tree; and the crooning of the hen add completeness to the peace and

tenderness that breathe in the air.



once again Nelly be on Holdsworth’s knee, fetch vague reply from

her struggle perception for his question, when Mrs. Parrot come out

of the house and say that Mrs. Conway be in the sitting-room, wait

to take her little girl home.



Holdsworth glance quickly at the window of the room, but do not see

she. he put the child down hurriedly, and say:



“there, my little pet, run along with Mrs. Parrot.”



“willn’t you come and speak to Mrs. Conway, sir?” ask Mrs. Parrot. “she

want to thank you for your kindness.”



“no--no--pray don’t let she call it kindness,” stammer Holdsworth,

who be very pale.



“I’m sure she’ll take it unkind if you willn’t let she thank you, sir,”

say Mrs. Parrot earnestly. “she’s be watch you both through the

window for the last five minute, an’ I couldn’t help tellin’ she what

a fine treat you have give Miss Nelly. besides, she’s see they toy,”

she add, look at Nelly’s present.



a whole lifetime of nervous pain be in that moment’s pause. could he

meet she, speak to she, and remain unknown? his desire be to hide.

it seem inconceivable that in five year such a change should be

work in he as to render he unrecognisable by his wife.



but the press necessity of immediate action be too sudden to give

his imagination time to alarm his judgment. he must dare the encounter,

since it be not to be obviate by any mean which might not prove more

productive of suspicion than bold confrontment.



he lay the utmost tyranny of his will upon his feeling, and say:



“perhaps you be right, Mrs. Parrot. Mrs. Conway will think I rude if

I do not see she,” take Nelly’s hand and walk with she to the house.



dolly be seat in an arm-chair near the fireplace, lean her cheek

on her hand. her attitude show that she have be watch the group

in the garden.



she stand up when Holdsworth enter and bow to he.



Nelly run to she, hold up her doll.



“look, mamma!”



the action be timely; it enable Holdsworth to walk to the side of the

window, where the shadow lie darkest, and there he stand.



this he have sense enough to do; but for a moment or two the room swam

round he, and he grasp the back of a chair.



_would she know he?_



that think sweep like a galvanic shock through he, and make his

blood tingle.



it bring hope with it and fear; a wild paradoxical emotion of

yearn love and the blight sense of the sorrow and dishonour

recognition would involve.



“I have to thank you very much, Mr. Hampden, for your attention to my

little girl,” she say in a low sweet voice--how remember!



“her society give I great happiness,” he reply, with the faint

tremor in his tone.



it might have be that sign of agitation which make she look at he

suddenly.



his gaze sink. but he feel her eye upon his face, and the eager,

restless scrutiny that fill they.



but if ever a memory of something infinitely beloved to she have be

renew by his reply, it melt upon her conviction of the death of he

whom holdsworth’s voice have recall to she, as snow upon water.



could it have be otherwise?



not five year--not twenty year--not a lifetime, maybe, of ordinary

suffering could have so transform his face but that her love could

have pierce the mask.



but the unnatural misery of those ten day in the open boat--the hunger

that have waste, the agonising thirst that have twist his face out of

all likeness to what it have be, the growth of beard and moustache

that hide the low part of the countenance, the gray hair, the bare

forehead, the deformed eyebrow, the rugged indent between the brow,

the stoop form!--



here be a transformation that would have defy a mother’s

instinct--that would have offer an impenetrable front to perception

barb into keenness by the profound love that ever warm the heart.



and yet, look at this woman attentively--look at her gaze at

yonder man, cower, it might almost seem, in the friendly shadow

of the wall--there be something in her eye, something in her face,

something in her whole manner, that would have quicken your pulse

with a moment of breathless suspense.



in such matter, as in the loss of memory, we must recognise the

existence of a deep spiritual insight have no reference to the

revelation of the mind. there be conviction which do not satisfy,

though cement by logic and act on by their possessor with sincere

conscience. against such conviction instinct will surge as wave

break upon a shore. echo be awaken, but be think purposeless.

and the conviction be still maintain, while the secret truth roll at

its base.



the voice of Holdsworth, but not his face, have set dolly’s instinct in

motion.



but then her conviction that Holdsworth be dead be a permanent one;

and under it her instinct subside into uneasy sleep, though there be

a shadow of melancholy on her face when she remove her eye, which have

not be there before Holdsworth speak.



“I hope Nelly have be good, Mr. Hampden.”



“very good, indeed.”



he seem to know that the crisis be pass, for he breathe more

freely, look at she, and remove his hand from the chair.



“these toy be very beautiful. I really feel unable to express my

gratitude to you.”



“you owe I no thank. my gratitude be due to you for allow your

sweet little girl to come and see I.”



“Mrs. Parrot tell I you be very fond of child?”



“very. I hope little Nelly will often be here. I be quite alone, and

she cheer I with her pretty prattle.”



she glance at he quickly and sympathetically, as he say he be

alone, and sigh.



Holdsworth notice that her dress be very shabby; but her beauty lose

nothing by her apparel. he think her look sweet than when he have

leave she five year before. her riper charm be make touching by an

under colouring of sadness, and there be languor in her movement and

speech--sign of heart-weariness.



“it be time for we to get home, Nelly,” she say, look uneasily

towards the window. “go and give Mr. Hampden a kiss, and thank he

prettily for his beautiful present.”



the child approach Holdsworth, who kiss she gently, repress the

passionate emotion that, have he be alone, would have prompt he to

raise she in his arm and press she to his breast.



“here be some little cake,” he say, take the parcel Mrs. Parrot

have prepare, and give they to the child, but address dolly,

“which will amuse she to play with. when may she come again, Mrs.

Conway?”



“oh, she must not intrude ...”



“no, no! she cannot come too often. pray let I make a companion

of she. she have completely win my heart. may she not walk with I

sometimes? I promise to take as much care of she as if she be my own

child.”



he have advance a step and speak eagerly, bend forward; but meet

her full eye fix on he with a little frown of mingle fear and

amazement, he turn pale, fall back a step, and force a smile, say

hurriedly:



“I be sometimes--sometimes laugh at for--for my love of child.”



she do not answer he for some moment, but stand watch he with a

startled expression, suggest both fascination and terror. then she

avert her eye slowly, the colour go out of her cheek, and she

murmur something under her breath.



“you remind I of one who be very dear to I ... I beg your pardon ...

there be often a strange resemblance in the tone of voice.”



she take the child’s hand, and be mechanically walk to the door.



“I want dolly and horse,” say Nelly, hold back.



Holdsworth pick up the toy, and go into the passage to open

the door. they bow to each other, and Holdsworth return to the

sitting-room.



       *       *       *       *       *



the moment he have dread have come and be go. he have meet his wife,

speak with she, and she do not know he.



he have notice the sudden surprise and fear that have come into her

face; he have notice the deeply thoughtful mood in which she have

quit the house. but these thing prove no more than this: that a

note, familiar to her ear, still live in the tone of his voice, and

have arouse for awhile the memory which rarely disturb she now, save

in dream at night.



well! what he wish have happen. suffering have deform he, time have

change he, to some purpose. he could play the game of life anew, as

one freshly come upon the stage. his paradise be close to he, but he

could stand at the gate and be a looker-on at the sphere in which his

most sacred interest play their part; he could respect and uphold,

by his withdrawal and secrecy, she, whose vow to he his imagine

death have cancel; he could have his child for a playmate, and sow in

her heart those seed of love, which, if God should ever suffer she

to know her father, would, in the fulness of time, bless he with an

abundant harvest of happiness.



but, though he would not, for the worth of his life, have have thing

otherwise than they be, yet, as he stand in the room from which the

light have depart with his child’s sweet face, the tear rise to his

eye and sob convulse he.



oh, it be hard to look back upon his suffering, and feel that nothing

but suffering yet remain; hard and bitter to behold those whom he

love, those whose love would spring to meet he be he to make but

one little sign, and to know that he be as dead to they as if the

great desolate sea roll over his body.



but here be a noble self-sacrifice heart that could not long mourn

its own affliction. high virtue be always pregnant with high

consolation, and a good man’s grief for himself be short because he

carry many tender minister to it in his bosom. there be no triumph

now to complete, for his conquest over impulse have be achieve at

Southbourne. he draw to the open window at the back, where the air be

fragrant with the smell of hay from the meadow beyond, and the cool

evening perfume of flower hide amid the shrubbery in the garden,

and watch the sun sink, whilst his thought follow it to the

distant deep, whose breast it overhang, and on whose lonely surface he

have watch it rise and set with a despair the memory of which

fill he with thought too deep for tear.









CHAPTER XXVIII.



DOLLY’S thoughts.





three day pass before Holdsworth see Nelly again. he then, from his

window, beheld her play on the pavement opposite with the horse and

cart he have give she.



he call, and she come run over to he gleefully at once.



Mrs. Parrot be despatch to request Mrs. Conway’s leave that nelly

might stop to tea with Mr. Hampden, and return to say that “the

little gal might, with the great of pleasure.”



again and again Nelly be summon out of the road by Holdsworth,

sometimes of a morning, sometimes of an afternoon, when he could

see she. the little creature soon learn to resist all her mother’s

suggestion that she should play in the back garden; she like the

pavement in the road, especially the pavement opposite Holdsworth’s

lodging, and with an air of inscrutable mystery would keep a sharp

look-out for Holdsworth, while she feign to be absorb in her toy.

ah, the artfulness of some little girl! but then there be always

gingerbread and cake for she in the miraculous cupboard in the corner

of Holdsworth’s room; and the temptation to obtain these luxury,

and to evade the slice of bread and cup of thin milk and water which

form her evening meal at home, be sometimes powerful enough to send

she toddle out of the back garden, where her mother place she, into

the road, actually unobserve by mamma, who, imagine that she still

play in the garden, would be astonish by Mrs. Parrot come across

and say that Miss Nelly be with Mr. Hampden, and please might she

stop to tea.



often, if Holdsworth have the good fortune to see his little girl in

the morning, or early in the afternoon, he would put on his hat, and

leave word with Mrs. Parrot to tell Mrs. Conway, should she ask, that

he have take nelly for a walk, clasp the child’s hand and stroll with

she into the town.



Nelly enjoy these ramble hugely. their two figure contrast

strangely, and many a woman’s eye would follow they, because the

measure step, the thoughtful brow, the sunken face of the man, and the

golden-haired child at his side, with her bright young face and big

eye drink in the sight and procession of the street, and little

twinkle foot, trip so fleetly and dancingly along, that one would

say she hold his hand to prevent herself fly away, form a picture

which a woman’s heart would love to contemplate for its prettiness.



they would sometimes turn out of the hot street, when Nelly’s listless

glance would show she weary at last of the splendour of the toy-shop

(before which they regularly stop) and wander to the river’s side;

and there, in the shadow of tree, Holdsworth would rest himself, while

nelly clear the space around she of all the daisy and buttercup

she could find.



these be hour of deep and calm enjoyment to Holdsworth, who, until

the chime of the town clock warn he to rise, would lie, with his

head support on his elbow, that his face might be close to Nelly’s

that he might catch every fluctuating expression that make her eye

an endless series of sweet sign, that he might hear every faltering

syllable that fall from her lip.



Soft and cool be the sound the river make, as its gentle tide

gurgle a secret music among the high rush, or ripple round stump

of tree or projection of stone lodge in the bank. wing insect

flash many-colour light upon the eye as they sweep from shadow to

shadow, part by a rivulet of sunshine fall through the opening

in the tree. now and again a trout leap with a pleasant and lazy

splash. from the shore opposite, behind the tree, come the smell of

the warm red clover, mingle with the multitudinous hum of bee. afar,

at a bend of the stream, an angler might stand watch his quill,

with his head and shoulder mirror in the clear water--so exquisite

the counterfeit that one might easily make a parable out of it, and

sermonise slumberously, as befit the drowsy influence of the hot

day, on those illusion of life which mock the heart they mislead in

its search after truth.



once, when Holdsworth be take Nelly home, after a long rest on the

river’s edge, he meet Mr. Conway, who stare very hard, but pass on

without address the child. Nelly draw close to Holdsworth when she

see the man.



Holdsworth know Conway perfectly well by sight now. the dentist have

repeatedly pass the window at which Holdsworth station himself

on the look-out for Nelly; and of late, it might have be notice,

he would glance with no unfriendly expression towards Mrs. Parrot’s

old-fashioned house.



his walk, when he do not actually reel, as he very often do, might

have be study with some disgust as an illustration of character.

it be a species of gliding movement, such as a man might be suppose

to adopt, whose self-abasement he himself hold irrevocable, and who

have make up his mind no long to walk, but to sneak through life.

the influence of importunate creditor might be mark in the quick,

furtive glancing of the eye, that wander from side to side and

challenge every individual it rest upon. one half-dull perception

of his social obligation might yet linger; or perhaps it be an innate

love of dress which, from be a vice in prosperity, would degenerate

into a kind of sickly virtue in poverty, that give he an indescribable

air of seedy jauntiness, tilt his soil hat, swathe his neck

in a bright kerchief, and furnish his body with a small-waiste

frock-coat.



it be very natural that Mrs. Parrot’s lodger should be somewhat of

a mystery to he. have no liking for child himself, but, on the

contrary, a rather decide aversion to they, he could not understand

what this Mr. Hampden see in Nelly to make he so prodigal in his

gift, so eager for her society.



who _be_ he? as Mrs. Parrot make a point of avoid he, he could not

very well question she about her lodger; but since she be the only

person in Hanwitch who be likely to know anything about he, he get

one of her tradesman to cross-examine she. but this _ruse_ result in

little. all that Mrs. Parrot could tell be, that her lodger’s name be

Hampden, that he be a gentleman with rather queer habit, and that he

seem to have lot of money.



it be something to find out that he have lot of money.



on the strength of this Mr. Conway suddenly discover Nelly to be a

very interesting child, and never seem more pleased than when she be

over the way at Mrs. Parrot’s.



the fact be, the dentist have an idea. it be a small, contemptible,

tricky idea, such as poverty and drink would beget between they. he

keep it to himself and wait.



dolly, of course, be deeply gratify by Mr. Hampden’s affection for

her child. at first her curiosity have be morbidly excite by this

stranger. something there have be in his voice which stir memory to

its centre: and the strange, baffling, elusive thought it have induce

keep she spiritless and nervous for some day after the interview

between they. twice she dream of the husband she believe dead. the

dream, in both instance, be perplexed, and leave no determinable

impression; but its iteration increase her melancholy, and make memory

painful and importunate.



she account for her feeling by refer they to the recollection

which have be abruptly renew--drag, so to say, from the grave in

which they lie hide; and this clue be put into her hand, leave she

easy as to the _raison d’être_ of her depression.



indeed, no suspicion of this stranger’s identity with Holdsworth could

have enter her mind without be instantly follow by conviction.

the thought never occur to she: how _could_ it? she believe he

dead, and the permanent habit of this belief take the quality of

establish proof of his death.



but even if she have doubt his death; if ever she have cherish the

hope that he would one day return to she--a hope that she have hold to

passionately for awhile, but which have drop dead out of her heart

when she give her hand to Mr. Conway--no memory that she have of he

would admit the possibility of the change that have be work in he.



there be a sign to be make--a look, a smile, a whisper--which would

flash perception into she, knit into compact form the thought

which his voice have trouble, and confess he her HUSBAND, though

hollow-faced and wan; though stricken as with age; though present

the ineffaceable memorial of grievous torture.



but, until this sign should be make, he must be a stranger to she; a

puzzle, perhaps; a man of eccentric habit, and of an odd and striking

aspect--but not her husband.



nor, strange as his suddenly-acquire affection for Nelly might seem to

other, could it come to she as a surprise. the mother’s vanity would

easily account for the pleasure her little daughter give to the lonely

man.



once, when Mrs. Parrot, meet she in the road, say that “it do seem

strange that a man an’ a child, as have niver set eye on each other

before, should love each other in the way Mr. Hampden and Miss Nelly

do:” dolly answer, “yes; but though I be her mother, yet I must say

that Nelly be a pretty and very win child, and there be nothing

uncommon in stranger take a fancy to child.”



No; that be quite true, Mrs. Parrot answer; and tell a story of a

rich lady admire a little beggar girl in the street; and how the rich

lady take the wench into her carrich, and get the parient’ leaf to

adopt she; and how the beggar girl come into the rich lady’s fortin,

and grow up into a stately an’ ’aughty woman, an’ married a lord, she

do, as be beknown to many.



“it ’ud be a comfortin’ thing to you, ma’am, don’t you think, if Mr.

Hampden be to adopt your little gal. it ’ud be a relief to your

feeling, wouldn’t it?” Mrs. Parrot say.



if some half-form thought, bear a resemblance to Mrs. Parrot’s

view, have flit across dolly’s mind, let we not marvel. never be her

mood sad, never be her secret grief sharper, than when her child’s

future form the subject of her thought. who would give Nelly a home

if she die? who would love the little thing; rear she in the knowledge

of God, of her break-hearted mother, of her poor drown father?



“I could not part with she, Mrs. Parrot; she be the only link that

bind I to bygone happy day. I could not spare she. my life would be

_too_ lonely for I to support it. but I often pray to God that she

may find a friend--such a friend as I be sure Mr. Hampden would make

she--when I be dead.”



this hope--that Mr. Hampden _would_ prove that friend--be the real

source of the comfort that fill her heart each time she see she

little girl trip across to Mrs. Parrot’s house.



she seldom see Holdsworth. sometimes she think he avoid she. twice,

when she be leave or return to her house, she see he in the

porch, and each time he hastily withdraw, when she would have cross

over to speak to he. on rare occasion she meet he come from the

town. once he raise his hat and pass on: once she go up to he

to thank he for his kindness to Nelly. he answer she hurriedly,

speak with an effort, and terminate the interview almost abruptly

by bow and leave she. then, again, his voice affect she

powerfully. she stop and look after he; and go on her way,

brooding, with a little frown of anxious, painful thought.



on his part, the weight of his secret, when they thus meet, face

to face, be insupportable. the wild rush of impulse combat by

inflexible resolution, create a conflict in his breast beyond his

capacity of endurance. he could not have prolong a conversation with

she. it be shocking to feel himself unknown; it be shocking to feel

that he might betray himself. but he could watch she from his window.

he know now her hour of go and come, and would station himself

behind the curtain, and follow she with exquisite tenderness in his

eye, and sadness, cruell than word can tell, in his heart.



how be this all to end?



here be the thought that now torment he. six week have pass since

he come to Hanwitch. he be live frugally, indeed; and of the money

he have bring with he from Australia a large portion still remain.

but his few hundred pound make a very slender capital; and when they

be spend what then?



he know very well that he could return to Sydney, that Mr. Sherman

would welcome he back, and reinstate he in his old post. but the

mere thought of leave England be misery to he. suppose, under any

plea, he obtain dolly’s leave to take Nelly with he, could he part

from dolly? he might never see she again. then let he think of her

companion; of the sordid, hungry life he _know_ she be lead--know,

though he could devise no expedient for relieve she, that might not

be resent as an affront and lose he nelly’s companionship.



he would rather have she in her grave than leave she as she be.



if urgent distress should ever come upon she, he would be at hand to

succour and support she. and that such urgent distress _must_ come

soon or later--that the day soon or later _must_ arrive when

she and her child would be without a home, he have but to watch the

maunder man who pass his window backwards and forwards day after

day, aimless, sodden, and grow shabby and shabby every week in

his appearance, to know.









CHAPTER XXIX.



a visit.





how be Holdsworth to get a living? for what be he fit? he be a

good clerk; Mr. Sherman have call he so, at least; Hanwitch be a

tolerably large place, and he ought to find no difficulty in obtain

employment. at any rate, he must try.



one morning he put on his hat and walk into the town.



when he reach the High Street, he stop and consider.



there be a bank; he could apply there. then there be a brewery. if

these fail, there remain an insurance office.



these represent polite avocation.



there be shop in abundance, where man, well look than he,

smile over counter, and carry parcel, and stand bare-headed on

the pavement at carriage-door. but Holdsworth be still too much the

sailor at heart to tolerate the notion of shop-serve. he would start

a little school rather than do that. and indeed school-keeping seem

more feasible than anything else. Mrs. Parrot’s lodging would serve

he there; boy would assemble by degree; and he could set and hear

lesson, and teach writing and mathematic, as well as any university

man.



meanwhile, let he try the bank.



it face the market-place in the High Street, have a well-wear door-step

and stout, noisy swinge door. holdsworth enter, and find himself

in a badly-light office, with a counter across it, behind which be

three or four clerk. a man who look a fourth-rate farmer be pay

money in, and whilst he count a great accumulation of greasy silver,

which he have discharge in company with a number of soil, infragrant

cheque out of a leather bag, he pause at every twenty to submit

an observation of a rural nature to the intelligence of an elderly

personage with long whisker, and a somewhat hebraical cast of visage,

behind the counter.



the manager, for so the long-whisker man be, observe Holdsworth to

be a stranger, politely ask he his business.



“can I speak to the manager?”



“certainly, sir; _i_ be the manager. walk this way, please.”



say which, the manager bustle importantly into a back room, and

throw open a side door for Holdsworth to enter.



“pray be seat, sir. nice weather.”



and the manager draw a chair to a desk, clasp his hand on a volume

of interest-table, and fix his eye on Holdsworth.



“I have call to inquire if you be in want of a clerk,” say

Holdsworth.



“I beg your pardon?” exclaim the manager.



Holdsworth repeat his remark, add that he be in want of a

situation, and would be glad to fill any vacancy there might be in the

staff of the bank clerk.



the manager, who have expect something very different from this, get

up instantly; his business-smile vanish, he thrust his hand into his

breech pocket, and exclaim:



“Clerk, sir! who tell you we want a clerk?”



“nobody. I have call here at my own suggestion.”



“God bless my heart! you be quite out of order, sir! really, these

intrusion upon my time .... you should have explain your wish at the

counter. when we want a clerk, we know where to find one, back, sir,

with first-class security and influential recommendation.”



“then I have make a mistake, that’s all,” say Holdsworth, survey

the manager with great disgust; and pay no further heed to the

protest with which the other follow he to the door, he walk into

the High Street.



this summary treatment be enough to last he one day. his indignation

yield to depression, and he return slowly and moodily to his

lodging.



this be the first time in his life he have ever make an application

for employment; and his reception, which be really genteel and

civil compare to the reception experience by man, old and young,

every day, in search of work, at the hand of employer, wound his

sensibility and fill he with a sense of degradation.



he regain his lodging, and endeavour to console himself with

philosophy.



but philosophy, say Rochefoucauld, triumph over future and past ill;

but present ill triumph over philosophy.



his sensibility do not smart the less because he reflect that

hundred of well man than himself have be insult by rejection as

offensive as that with which his inquiry have be encounter.



thought of something tender and innocent will often quell the

stubborn warmth. holdsworth grow mild in a moment when his mind go

to little Nelly.



“I’ll try the brewery to-morrow,” he say to himself; “and if that

fail I, I’ll advertise for a situation; and if nothing come of that,

I’ll start a school.”



thus think he walk to the window, hope to see his child in the

road.



nobody be visible but the old politician with the inflame face, who

be pace slowly along the pavement, his hand lock behind he,

his eye bent downwards, and his brow frown grimly. presently,

holdsworth know, the other old politician, who live at the corner

house, would come out, and there would be much gesticulation, and

violent declamation, and frequent pause, and mopping of the forehead

with red silk pocket-handkerchief. rain have fall in the night, and

cleanse the little garden in front of the villa of the three week’

accumulation of dust that have settle upon they, and freshen up the

leave and grass. in the bit of ground before Mrs. Parrot’s house

the flower have wither on their stalk, but the shrub still wear

the bright greenness of summer; the soil be dark and rich with the

grateful moisture, and breathe a fragrance of its own upon the morning

air.



Holdsworth be about to quit the window when he catch sight of Mr.

Conway come out of his gate. he fall a step back, and watch the man

from behind the curtain. Mr. Conway advance a few yard along his own

side of the road, and then cross, with his eye fix on Holdsworth’s

window.



be he come to the house? he move softly and furtively, and when he

be abreast of Mrs. Parrot’s gate, throw a glance behind he, push

the gate open, and knock.



as Holdsworth do not know the man to speak to, he do not for a moment

suppose that this visit be mean for he. much be he surprised, and

even agitated, when Mrs. Parrot come in and say that Mr. Conway be in

the passage, and would like to see he.



the first idea that rush into Holdsworth’s head be, “I be know!”

but conjecture be out of the question, for the man be wait.

“pray show Mr. Conway in,” he say; and in Mr. Conway come.



Holdsworth bow, and so do the other, with a kind of spasmodic

grace--a good bow spoil by nervousness. he have dress himself with

care; he be cleanly shave; his hair be carefully brush; his shirt

collar be white; and his boot shine.



Holdsworth have never before see he so close. the light from the

window fall upon his face and show the cobweb of vein in his eye,

the puffy whiteness of his skin, the blueness of his lip, the tinge of

gleam purple about his nostril, and all the other signal which the

alcoholic fiend stamp upon the countenance of his votary, so that,

let they go where they will, they may be know and loathe by honest

man as his adopt child.



but he be sober now; as sober as a man can be who have drink but a

glass of ale since he leave his bed, but whose flesh be soak with the

abomination of the tavern, and whose brain can never be steady for the

fume that rise incessantly into it.



“Mr. Hampden, I believe?” he exclaim in a creamy voice, stand

near the door, which Mrs. Parrot have shut behind he, and twist his

hat in his hand.



“yes; pray be seat,” reply Holdsworth, look at he steadily,

certain now that the object of this visit be not what he have imagine

it.



Mr. Conway sit down, and put his hat on the floor. his embarrassment,

when his business should come to be know, might show a possibility of

redemption, or at least satisfy we that most of the bad quality he

be accredit with might have be absorb into his nature with the

drink he swallow. no thoroughly bad man could feel the nervousness

that disturb he.



“I have call, Mr. Hampden, to thank you, for your kindness to my

little step-daughter. indeed, sir, both my wife and myself thoroughly

appreciate your goodness. believe we, we do.”



“pray do not trouble to thank I. she be a sweet child, and it make I

happy to have she,” answer Holdsworth, now at his ease, and study

his visitor with curiosity and surprise.



“ah! she be indeed a sweet child. a perfect treasure to her mother,

and quite a little sunbeam in my house--darken, I regret to say, by

misfortune beyond my control to repair.”



“I be sorry to hear that.”



“I never can sufficiently deplore having adopt so ungrateful a

vocation as dentistry. I be bear to well thing, Mr. Hampden. my

father have an influential position under Government; but he die in

poverty, and I be apprentice by an uncle ... pray forgive I. these

matter cannot interest you. privation press heavily upon a man at my

time of life. dentistry seem to fail I; and yet, when I look around,

I find no other calling which I be qualified to espouse.”



he sigh, and pull out a pocket-handkerchief, with which he wipe

his mouth.



Holdsworth be silent.



“poverty I could endure, be I alone in the world,” continue Mr.

Conway; “but it be unendurable to I to witness the good of woman

and the dearest of little child in want. my poor wife do not

complain; but I witness her secret suffering in her waste form and

irrepressible tear, and it go to my heart, sir, to see she, and feel

my miserable incapacity to relieve she.”



“do you mean to say that she be actually in want?” exclaim Holdsworth

in a low voice.



“yes, sir; we all be. as I hope to be save, I haven’t more than two

shilling in the wide world!”



“have you no source of income outside your profession?”



“no. I do well in the High Street; but I have many rival and enemy,

who spread lie report about I, and lose I my good patient. give a

dog a bad name! I leave my establishment in the heart of the town, and

come into this road because rent be cheap here; and God know if I can

tell how I have live since,” he cry passionately, his natural bad

temper break through his affectation of suffering and ill-treatment.

“the pawnbroker have be my only friend! be I to sell the bed from

under I? oh, sir, I think of my wife, of my poor little child--for my

child she be, if love can make she so--and the thought be death to I!”



he flourish his handkerchief and look piteously at Holdsworth.



“how can I serve you?”



“ah, sir!” exclaim Mr. Conway, sink his voice into a yet more

whining note, the while a gleam enter into his eye; “what right

have I to trespass upon the benevolence of a stranger? of a gentleman

who have already place I under a thousand obligation by his kindness

to my little daughter? I feel myself a wretch, sir, when I reflect

upon the unfortunate position I have place my poor wife in. I be

flourish in those day; I could have give--I _do_ give she and

her baby a good home. but what position be so secure that it can stand

against the lie of rivalry and jealousy? the slanderous report of

ruffian who make capital for themselves out of a neighbour’s trifling

error, and--and--oh! damn they!”



“how can I serve you?” say Holdsworth, come quietly back to the

point.



“if I dare name my want to you, sir--if I dare presume upon that

benevolence which you have so signally illustrate in your behaviour to

little nelly, I--I----”



“I be a poor man,” say Holdsworth, as the other pause; “and can

afford but little. but that little be cheerfully at the service of your

wife and child, who must not be allow to want.”



he speak emphatically, to let the man understand the purpose to which

he intend his gift or loan should be apply.



“but for that wife and child, sir,” answer Mr. Conway, apparently

struggle with his emotion, “_could_ I place myself in this position?

be there any personal necessity, however imperative, that would force

I to lose sight of the pride which render starvation preferable to

alm-seeking, to the gentleman bear? no, sir,” he continue, with an

air of injure dignity; “poor as I be, I can still recognise the claim

of my birth upon my action; and I repeat, that be it not for my wife

and her little one, no affliction, however unsupportable, should oblige

I to intrude even upon _your_ benevolence.”



he pause, and see Holdsworth look impatient, exclaim hurriedly:



“if ten pounds----” and stop.



“you wish to borrow ten pound?”



“ah, sir, if I dare----”



“of what service will so small a sum be to you?”



the man look strike; Holdsworth have expect to hear a large sum

name, he think.



“ten pound--to a poor man--to a poor family, sir, ten pound be a

great deal of money.”



“I will lend you ten pound willingly, on condition that you spend it

on your wife and Nelly.”



“certainly, certainly,” reply Mr. Conway meekly. “you may depend upon

be repay, if I have to pawn the shirt off my back to get the money.”



I suppose that this kind of security (generally offer by man who have

not the least idea of repay a loan) must be figurative--a poetical

figure of debt. how far would the shirt off a man’s back help the

redemption of the debt borrow on the strength of it?



Holdsworth give Mr. Conway two five-pound note. the man take they

eagerly, and whilst he bury they in his trouser’ pocket, pour

forth a profusion of thank.



“do Mrs. Conway know of this visit?” ask Holdsworth, stop his

noise.



“no, sir; but believe I, I shall not fail to acquaint she with your

kindness,” he answer, take his hat and rise.



Holdsworth’s impulse be to request he not to speak to she of this

gift--for loan it would be ridiculous to call it. but he check

himself with the consideration that, be Mr. Conway to break his word,

dolly would find food for dangerous questioning in the request.



he say, instead, “you will not forget the purpose for which I have

lend you this money?”



“trust I, sir; trust I,” murmur Mr. Conway, press his hat to his

heart. “if you will give I ink and paper I will make you out an i o u

at once.”



“never mind that. nelly be a grow child, and require nourishing

food: devote the money to she and her mother, and you will make I

grateful.”



he walk into the passage, and Mr. Conway, bow humbly, pass into

the porch, where he stand a moment or two peep at his house; then,

with another bow, hurry into the road, and vanish in the direction

of the town.



       *       *       *       *       *



the poverty of the Conways, then, be unquestionable. Holdsworth have

often speculate upon their position, but have never reach nearer

to the mark than suppose that they live from hand to mouth, and

just make shift to support the day that be pass over they. that

they be actually in want, actually destitute indeed, it have never

enter his mind to imagine. he believe Conway’s story. and it be

very certain that, if the man have no private mean of his own, he must

be hopelessly poor, for he make nothing by his profession. in all the

six week that Holdsworth have be in Hanwitch he have not see as many

people call at Conway’s house; and of these, suppose they to be

patient, half of they have come away after speak with the servant,

doubtless inform that master be out.



but even guess so much, Holdsworth guess only half the truth:

and it be well, perhaps, that he do not know all, for grief must

have master his judgment, and force he into the confession which

he pray, night and morning, for will to restrain. it be after dark

always when dolly, closely veil, would creep down the road, with

some little bundle under her shawl, for the pawnbroker, that she might

obtain a trifle in order to furnish her child with a meal on the

morrow. it be in the privacy of her own home that she labour, as

no menial ever _will_ labour; sit up late night after night, over

the endless task of darn and mend her own and her child’s shabby

apparel; often go supperless to bed, and wake to a day even more

hopeless than the one that have precede it.



the devoted man, who would have give his life to win her happiness,

know nothing of all this. even his little child’s dress tell he no

story, though a woman might have read a full and pathetic narrative

of toil and poverty in the frock, turn and re-turn, mend and

patch, and darn again and again.



Holdsworth seldom see she now: yet, if ever she catch sight of he

at his window, she have always a kindly smile, a grateful nod: and

what with the shadow of her hat over her face, and the distance which

soften the line of care, grief, and weariness into the sweet and

delicate effect of her beauty, he be ignorant of the serious and

wither change that have take place in she, even during the short

time that have elapse since they have last meet and speak in the High

Street.



Nelly come over to he at one o’clock, and he keep she to dinner. the

child be hungry, and as he watch she eating, he think of Dolly.



“have mamma get a good dinner to-day, darling?”



the little thing look puzzle; but upon Holdsworth repeat the

question, answer “Noo.”



he think she be mistaken, since, after what Conway have tell he, the

man’s first action, he believe, now that he have money in his pocket,

would be to attend to his wife’s necessity. but though he repeat

his question in different shape, the child invariably answer, “Noo,

mamma get no din-din.”



“no dinner at all! be you sure, my pet?”



yes, the child be sure, as sure as a child could be.



Holdsworth spring up and rang the bell, and enter the passage

to await Mrs. Parrot. she come out of her kitchen, and Holdsworth

exclaim, master his agitation:



“I want to confer with you, Mrs. Parrot. Nelly tell I that her mamma

have no dinner to-day. be this likely--be this possible, do you think?”



“indeed, sir, since you ask I, I do then, and God forgi’ I for

thinkin’ the bad,” answer Mrs. Parrot.



“but,” cry Holdsworth, “I give Mr. Conway ten pound this morning,

stipulate that he should spend it on his wife and child!”



“he!” exclaim Mrs. Parrot, almost savagely. “the wretch! ten pound!

he’ll spend it all I’ liquor! oh, sir, why don’t you give it to the

poor lady?”



“yes--I ought to have do so,” reply Holdsworth clasp his hand.

“but how could I--what excuse _could_ I have find for send it to

she? oh, Mrs. Parrot! something must be do. I cann’t bear to think of

the poor lady actually dinnerless. what can we contrive? remember--she

be a lady--we must be careful.”



“to think of your lending ten pound to that villin!” cry Mrs.

Parrot, whose mind be stagger by the munificence of the sum and the

artfulness of the man in obtain it. “I niver heerd of such a thing!

and be that his reason for callin’? if I’d ha’ only know his object,

I’d ha’ send he packin’ with his blarney, wouldn’t I?”



“what do you advise?” say Holdsworth, eagerly.



“well, sir, I’m sure I don’t know what to say. she _be_ a lady, and it

wouldn’t do to send her butcher’ meat across, would it? I’ll tell you

what we _could_ do, sir; I could kill one o’ my fowl and leave it with

my compliment, pretend I have kill some yesterday, and wish she,

as a neighbour, to taste my fattening.”



“that will do! but, instead of kill your fowl, take this

half-sovereign and run at once to the poulterer’s, and buy a couple of

pullet. you can then take they across, and she will suppose they be

your own rearing. will you do this?”



“with the great of pleasure, sir; and I’m sure you must have a very

kind heart to take so much interest in poor folk.”



and Mrs. Parrot run off for her bonnet, and be presently hurry down

the road with a market-basket on her arm, and her untied bonnet-string

stream over her shoulder.



Holdsworth wait impatiently for her return, whilst Nelly, who have

finished dinner, toddle about the room, gaze with round earnest

eye into the recess, and the cupboard, and at the shepherd on the

mantelpiece, and the yellow rose on the mat.



in ten minute’ time Mrs. Parrot come back with her face flush with

the heat and exercise, and dart into the house as though she have

sweep half a jeweller’s shop into her basket and be fly for dear

life.



“there, sir, what do you think of these?” she exclaim, drag a

pair of handsomely-flour pullet out of the basket and hold they

at arm’s length, as though they be a pair of ear-ring. “ben’t they

beautie, sir?”



“how can I send they across? will you take they?”



“oh yes. I can jest leave ’em at the door wi’ Mrs. Parrot’s

compliment. she’ll be sure to guess that they’re my rearin’, and save

I from an untruth, though my religion be none so fine, thank God,

that I should be afeard to tell a kind o’ white lie to help any poor

creature as want.”



she then examine the pullet attentively, to make sure that there be

no trade-mark upon they in the shape of ticket, adjust her bonnet,

wipe her face, and walk across the road.



Holdsworth wait in the passage until she return. she be absent a

few minute, and then come back smile, with the lid of the basket

raise to let Holdsworth see that it be empty.



“do you see Mrs. Conway?”



“no, sir, I wouldn’t ask for she,” reply Mrs. Parrot, wipe she

foot on the door-mat. “I jest say to the gal, ‘give this here to your

missis with my compliment, and tell she that they’re ready for cookin’

at once, as they’re be kill long enough.’ I niver see any gal look

like that wench do when she take the pullet. I think she’d ha’

faint. she turn as pale as pale, and then she grin slow-like,

and then laugh wi’ a sound for all the world like the squeak of a dog

that’s smotherin’ under a cushion. here’s your change, sir. pullet,

six shillin’, and one be seven, and two be nine, and two sixpence

make it right. will you please to count it?”



Holdsworth thank she, and return to the sitting-room with a

relieved mind. but scarcely be he seat when Mrs. Parrot knock on

the door, and mysteriously beckon he into the passage.



“I forgot to say, sir, that I ast the gal before come away if she

master be in, and she say ‘no.’ I say, ‘when will he be in?’ she

say, ‘I don’t know, missis; he go out this mornin’, an’ he’s not

be back since.’ Mark what I say, sir!” add Mrs. Parrot, raise an

emphatic forefinger, “he’ll not give a penny o’ that money to his poor

wife, but jest keep away from she till he’s drunk it all out.”



accompany which prophecy with many indignant nod, she walk

defiantly towards the kitchen.



the idea of dolly’s miserable position, never before impress upon he

as it have be that day, make Holdsworth wretche. he seat himself

at the window and stare gloomily and sadly into the road. Nelly come

to he and try to coax he to play with she, but he have no heart

even to meet the little creature’s sweet entreating eye with a smile.

he catch she up, press she to he, and kiss she again and again,

while the hot tear roll down his thin face.



never before be his impulse to tell dolly who he be and snatch she

from the misery, the unmeet sorrow that encompass she, so powerful.

love and pity strove with the dread of dishonour she by the

revelation. could he endure to think that this delicate, gentle girl

be link to a man who neglect she, who might even ill-treat she,

who at that moment might be squander the money that have be give

he on his own gross appetite, without thought of the wife and child

want bread at home? what must be the issue of such a life if it be

permit to endure? soon or later Holdsworth must avow himself to

save she and his child from that uttermost degree of ruin and misery to

which Conway be drag they.



he have hope to devote his life to they. his dream have be that

Conway’s character be not irretrievably bad, that kindly entreaty,

cordial advice, and pecuniary help might bring he to a knowledge of

his folly and set he once more on the high-road to respectability.

such a redemption would have be Holdsworth’s sacrifice; but his own

happiness be as nothing in his eye compare to dolly’s. faithfully

would he have perform his duty to she, nobly would he have vindicate

his own most honourable, most exalted devotion, could he have reclaim

this err man and teach he to give his wife as much happiness as

it be possible for a heart that ceaselessly mourn a dead love, to

know. thus he could have be his dolly’s good angel, and whilst God

permit he, have keep watch over she and her child, dead to her

belief, but active as the holy love could make life in his helpful

secret guardianship.



he perceive the vanity of that hope now, and yet despairingly clung

to it, because, if he surrender it, he feel that he must confess

himself, and from this he shrink as from a deed that would inflict a

deep degradation upon she, while Conway live, than any she could

suffer from her husband’s behaviour.



one must either entirely sympathise with his profound susceptibility

of the obligation his suppose death have force upon he to fulfil, or

ridicule he as a man absurdly fantastical in his view of morality.

there seem no middle standpoint to judge he from.



but unless there be too much austerity in his virtue to make it

admirable, then, to properly appreciate it, we must remember the

extraordinary tenderness of his nature, his exquisite sensibility,

which shrink from the mere thought of tarnish the pure honour of the

woman he love.



that he believe her honour would be tarnish be he to proclaim

himself in the lifetime of her present husband, be enough; and

whether he be right or wrong; whether he be correct in hold the

obligation of the marriage-service holy, binding, and to be disturb

only at the risk of God’s wrath, when incur with a spotless

conscience, when enter upon in innocence and good faith; or whether

he should have regard the marriage-service as a mere civil convention

which make his wife his property, claimable by he on the common ground

of the law of priority, without reference to any action she might have

commit in honest belief that he be dead; one thing we must allow

he--an unparalleled quality of unselfishness, the existence of which,

while it attest the sincerity of his view (since he have his heart’s

deep affection to lose and nothing to gain by retain they),

elevate his conduct to the high point of heroism.



Nelly have never before find he unwilling to romp with she; when he

raise his head she watch his face with a strange, wistful look, and

put her finger to his cheek, say:



“why do ’oo cry?”



he force a smile for answer, caress she, and then place she on the

ground, think she be weary of sit. but she climb upon his

knee again, and repeat her question with great earnestness:



“why do ’oo cry?”



“because I be silly and weak, my little one. I be forget that there

be a good and just God over I, who will hear my prayer and help I,

as he before do, when I be alone on the wide sea.”



he say this aloud, but speak rather to himself than to the child.



“dod love Nelly,” say the little thing, “and Nelly love ’oo. nelly

kiss ’oo.”



that be all the comfort she could give he; but it fall tenderly on

his ear. he kiss she gratefully, rock she gently to and fro in his

arm with his eye on her face. she soon, however, rebel against an

attitude which cripple her limb, and slip on to the floor, and to

amuse she he give she a book with picture in it, which she examine

gravely, talk to herself as little child and aged people do.



in this manner the afternoon pass; but never be Holdsworth more

depressed, more restless, fill with more nameless anxiety and

misgiving.



apart from all moral consideration, his future be terribly uncertain.



suppose the conway leave the town? he must follow they, for he could

not bear the separation; and what would they think of his pursuit?

suppose all his effort to obtain a living fail, what should he do?



at five o’clock Mrs. Parrot come in to put on Nelly’s hat: that be

the regular hour at which the little girl be send home by Holdsworth.



“my apron be dirty,” say the worthy woman, “so I’ll not go across with

you, my dear. but I’ll watch from the porch until I see you safe in.”



so, receive a kiss and a piece of gingerbread from Holdsworth, the

child toddle into the road, and when she be inside the gate, where

her mother would see she, Mrs. Parrot close the door and go back to

she iron in the kitchen.









CHAPTER XXX.



the KNOT be CUT.





a storm break over Hanwitch that night, and leave behind it a strong

wind which sweep up great masse of cloud; and the morning sunshine

stream and darken in quick alternation, and make the air lively

with the movement of shadow.



Holdsworth, deeply disturb by conflict anxiety, have sleep but

little; and at eight o’clock leave his bed and start for a walk before

breakfast, hope that the breeze which thunder about the house would

freshen and inspirit he.



gain the High Street, he turn to the left and walk along a

narrow pathway that take he through the field to Maldon Heights, as

the hill that overlook Hanwitch be call. he climb the grassy

slope and stand awhile on the summit, drink in the hoot wind and

watch the fluctuating scene that run from his foot to the horizon.

the oats and barley in many field be not yet cut; and it be a sight

to see they break into wide space of delicate gold under the sun,

and grow gray again as the cloud-shadow sail over they. when the

sunshine linger awhile, these field seem to reflect the shadow

which have pass, for the wind rush like a dark arm along they,

and press the graceful grain into the likeness of a wave, which

sweep forwards with swiftness, make the field dark where it run.

the farther tree appear to hold steady under the breeze; but there

be near tree which sway their branch in wild gesticulation

of entreaty, and flog the wind as it roar among they, bear

away trophy of green leave and broken twig. the bird breast the

gale with short flight, or turn and yield to the invisible power

with small cry. every object the eye rest on appear in motion,

so lively be the effect of the cloud shadow upon the house and the

weight of the wind upon the surround country.



it be a morning to clear the most hypochondriacal mind of despondency,

and Holdsworth feel its cheerful influence as he stand expose to the

swinge rush of warm air, and watch nature dance to the tune sing

by the wind as it sweep through the sky.



he have make up his mind to call at the brewery that morning, and he

take a look at it as he pass the street in which it stand on his

way home. the gaol-like building, with the steam about its window

resemble rich London fog, which refuse either to stop in or go

away, be scarcely calculate to improve his hope. big beef-face man

in apron roll huge cask out of a courtyard into a cellar fill

with sawdust, damp, and gloom; the throb of the engine could be hear

distinctly, and the wind that blow out of the street come in agitated,

disorder puff, as though the smell of the beer have make it rather

drunk.



Holdsworth shake his head as he pass on. it strike he that there

would be little chance of his get employment in that steaming,

panting, perspire quarter; and that he would be act more wisely

if, instead of challenge rudeness by personal inquiry at place

where nobody want he, he spend a few shilling in advertising for a

situation.



determine to do this, he make what haste he could back to his

lodging, mean there and then to manufacture an advertisement.



he enter his sitting-room, rang the bell to let Mrs. Parrot know he

have return, and sit himself down to consider the term in which he

should make his want know.



“what would you like for breakfast, sir?” say Mrs. Parrot, open the

door.



“oh, anything you please. a new-lay egg if you can find I one.”



“yes, sir. I take four beauty out just now. have you hear the news,

sir?”



“no. what news?”



“well, sir, it’s what I allus think must happen; and day after day

I’ve bin expectin’ it, as mother’ll bear I out. they’ve get the

broker in at the conway.”



“the broker!” exclaim Holdsworth, turn round in his chair quickly.



“yes, sir. their gal tell the milkman just now, as giv’ I the news.

and what’s wuss--leastway some might call it wuss, though I should

consider it a good job myself if I be his wife--Mr. Conway haven’t be

home all night!”



“the villain!” exclaim Holdsworth through his tooth. and then he

jump up and begin to pace the room excitedly.



“stop!” he cry, observe that Mrs. Parrot be about to withdraw.

“be you sure this news be true?”



“oh, I’ve no doubt of it, sir. when the milkman tell I, I be jest

goin’ to run across and see the poor lady, and then I say to myself,

‘what use can I be to she?’”



“I may be of some use, though,” interrupt Holdsworth. “never mind

about my breakfast just yet. when do the man enter the house to take

possession?”



“last night, sir, the gal tell the milkman.”



“great heaven! and have she be alone all night?” he stop short,

seize his hat, and, brush past Mrs. Parrot, go quickly out of the

house.



Mrs. Parrot watch he from the porch, lose in amazement.



he push open the gate, march up to the door, and knock loudly.

his mood be one of deep excitement. the sense of the crush misery

that have fall upon dolly have give a poignancy to feel that set

all self-control at defiance.



the door be open by the servant, and out with she come a smell of

strong tobacco smoke.



“be Mr. Conway in?”



“no, sir, he ain’t,” answer the girl, look behind she and then at

Holdsworth, with a scared face.



“where’s your mistress?”



“in the parlour, sir.”



“I should like to see she.”



“she’s not wisible. she’s in grief, and ain’t to be see.”



“go and tell she that Mr. Hampden have call and would like to say a

word to she.”



“I don’t think----”



“do what I tell you!” exclaim Holdsworth.



the girl slouch backwards and push her head into the parlour-door.



“she ain’t here. she’s go upstairs,” say she, and upstairs she go,

slap the staircase with her shoe as she go.



an individual with a round red face, a white hat, a spot shawl, a

coat nearly to his ankle, a long waistcoat, and a black clay pipe

in his mouth, lounge elegantly out of the room which Mr. Conway have

call his “Surgery” at the end of the passage, and lean collectedly

against the door, nod familiarly to Holdsworth, take his pipe from

his mouth, expectorate, and say “Morning.”



“good morning. be you the man in possession?” reply Holdsworth.



the individual nod and replace his pipe.



“when do you come?”



“last night,” answer the man in a thick voice. “and a werry queer

look-out it be. blow if they’ve get any butter in this house!”



“what be the amount of the debt?”



“Twenty-three pun four and sevenpence,” say the man, remove his pipe

to expectorate again. “be you a creditor?”



“no,” answer Holdsworth, listen for dolly’s footstep.



“then if you vent on your bended knee for gratitood you vouldn’t be

overdoin’ it,” say the man, give Holdsworth a sagacious nod. “there

ain’t above ten pound in the house, and not that. cast yer eye into

that parler. the good of the good be there, and if you can make three

pound out of ’em, I’ll swaller my pipe.”



and then an idea smite he:



“you ain’t come to have a tooth draw, have yer?”



“no.”



“Vot’s your opinion of tooth-drawin’?” inquire the man confidentially,

retire and reappear again, hold up a pair of forceps. “ain’t it

rayther a queer go, don’t you think? I know a barber as draw tooth.

he never use nothing of this kind. Vot do you think he do? bust I if

he don’t set you in a chair, fasten a bit o’ vire to the tooth as be

to come out, and tie t’other end of the vire to the leg of a table.

Ven all’s ready, ‘mind yer eye’ he sing out, up with a razor, rush

at yer makin’ horrible mouth, up jump you, avay you run, and leave

your tooth behind yer!”



he gargle an asthmatical laugh, add: “that’s vot I call a sensible

vay of drawin’ a tooth; no bit of cold iron shove into yer mouth as

if yer tongue vas hair and vanted curling.”



“please, sir, will you step into the parlour and sit down,” say the

girl, thrust her head over the banister and call to Holdsworth.

“Missis’ll be with yer in a minute.”



he enter the wretched little parlour, while the “man in possession”

retreat to the surgery arm-chair, and sit severely contemplate some

unfinished tooth on the table in front of he.



in a few moment Holdsworth hear footstep outside, and dolly come in,

hold Nelly’s hand. she be terribly pale, with a look of terror and

exhaustion on her face painful to see. there be an unnatural sleepless

brilliancy in her eye that heighten her worn, hopeless expression.

she have throw an old shawl over her shoulder, and through the portion

of the fair skin of the neck that be expose the vein show dark.

the hand she give to Holdsworth be like a stone.



he be so overcome by the sight of her misery, that for some moment

he could not speak. the child come up to he and rub her cheek

against his hand.



“this be kind, very kind of you, Mr. Hampden,” she exclaim in a low,

faint voice, sink upon the sofa and shivering as she hug the

shawl about her shoulder.



“you be in great distress, I fear. I only hear the news just now. I

come over to you at once,” he answer tremulously, the fierce beating

of his heart sound an echo through his voice.



“it be what I have be daily expect for many month--for many

bitter, cruel month!” she exclaim. “it have come at last. we be

homeless now. and my husband, who ought to be at my side, have leave I.

he be away all day yesterday and last night. o God! what a night it

have be!” she moan, rock herself to and fro.



“don’t say you be homeless,” he cry; “you have a friend. let I be

your friend. Mrs. Parrot shall give you a home for the present ... if

you will accept it.”



she look at he with stupefied eye as one who doubt her sense,

then say: “we have no claim upon you. oh! how noble-hearted! nelly,

nelly, come to I, come to I!”



the child run to her mother, and, be frighten by the passionate

despair in her voice, hide her face in her lap and burst into tear. but

dolly’s eye remain dry--lose nothing of their wild brilliancy. she

drag her child to she, and sway to and fro with tearless sob that

shake and convulse she.



“I have deserve this,” she presently moan. “I be faithless to the

true love God ever bless a woman with. why be he take from I?

my child be starve, and the sight of her waste body drive I mad

with grief. I never love Mr. Conway--he know it ... he have leave I!

oh! he be a coward to leave I! what be I to do? I be a lonely woman--I

have this child to feed and clothe--I have not a relative to turn

to--and now we be homeless! o God! this be too much, too much!”



she hide her face in her child’s hair.



nothing but the dread that the truth, at that moment, might kill she

to hear, prevent he, as he listen to her heart-break word, from

kneeling to she and call her wife. he watch she with a strange

steadfastness of gaze, and with a face more bloodless than her. the

impulse to avow himself have recoil and drive the blood to his heart;

a faintness overcome he, but he battle with the deadly weakness, and

the well to do so, rise and stride across the room and stand near his

wife and child, look down upon they.



“I will help you to the utmost of my power,” he say, speak slowly,

and with a difficulty that presently pass. “whilst I live, neither

you nor your child will be friendless. trust I, and make I happy by

know I to be your friend.”



she raise her feverishly-light eye, and say in a quick, febrile

whisper: “you cannot take the burden of the three of we upon yourself.”



“no! I would not raise a finger to serve your husband now. he have

money, but he leave you in want all day yesterday, and you have be

alone through the night... but I will befriend you and your child.

whatever I can do shall be do. I be not rich--I would to God I be,

for your sake. be I to pay this debt, I should only delay the loss

of your furniture for a few day; other would come, and I should not

have the money to deal with they.”



“what be I to do?” she wail, cling to her child.



“Mrs. Parrot’s house will be your home for the present. we must wait

until we get news of Mr. Conway.”



“oh, Mr. Hampden, be he not cruel to have leave I in this position!

no one know but God what I have endure during the last year! when I

be battle with poverty alone I be happy and rich. my memory

be fresh and pure, my conscience be clear, but I sacrifice they for

nelly’s sake, and now I be desert and the most miserable woman in the

whole world!”



she break into a long piteous cry, but no tear come into her eye.



“let I take you at once from this wretched home. come!”



he go to the door and hold it open. dolly stare around she like a

sleeper suddenly arouse, and then rise with the child in her arm.

Holdsworth call to the servant and tell she to fetch her mistress’s

hat. the “man in possession” lounge out of the back room and stare

with a dry smile.



“Goin’?” he ask.



Holdsworth do not answer he. the weight of the child be too great

for the half-faint mother, who totter as she stand. holdsworth

take Nelly from she and place she on the ground.



“you ain’t a goin’, missis, be yer?” say the servant, hand dolly

the hat, and whimpering.



“yes,” reply Holdsworth; “and if Mr. Conway should call, tell he

that his wife be at Mrs. Parrot’s.”



“oh, mum, I don’t like to be leave alone with that man!” cry the

servant, look down the passage.



“vy not?” say the man. “if you’re all goin’, who’s to cook my wittle,

I should like to know?”



“_I_’ll not stop!” exclaim the girl. “I wouldn’t trust myself anear

he.”



“you’re free to stop or go, as you please,” say Holdsworth, give she

some money.



“then I ain’t to be pay out arter all?” exclaim the man, strike a

match, and hold it flame in one hand and his pipe in the other.



“not by I,” answer Holdsworth, open the hall-door.



he take Nelly’s hand and give dolly his arm. she draw a long quivering

sob as she pass through the garden; and then, see some inquisitive

face stare over the wire-blind in the opposite house, hang her head

and step out quickly.



Mrs. Parrot, hear they come in, run out of the kitchen, and stand

look from one to the other of they in mute astonishment.



“Mrs. Conway will make a temporary home of your house, Mrs. Parrot,”

say Holdsworth. “you will kindly prepare a bed-room for she and Miss

Nelly, and place your drawing-room at her disposal.”



dolly have sink into a chair. he pour out some wine and hold it to

she, but she wave it away, strive to suppress her sob.



“oh, ma’am, pray don’t take on so,” cry Mrs. Parrot, go up to she.

“Things’ll come right, ma’am. you’ll be heasy an’ comfortable here.”



Holdsworth kneel on a chair beside she, hold the wine. oh, it be

hard that he could not take she to his heart and whisper the word that

would change all her anguish into joy. but if ever the barrier that be

raise between they have be feel, it be feel by he then. her honour

now, more than ever it have be, be become peculiarly his care. the

sense of she be another’s, that his own claim be as naught in the

presence of her belief that she be Conway’s wife, be never before

so sharply feel. her misery have give she in his eye a sanctity that

make his yearn love sacrilegious. Humility conquer emotion, and

he creep away from her side, and stand look at she from a distance,

hold Nelly’s hand.



meanwhile, Mrs. Parrot’s finger be busy with dolly’s hat string and

the shawl over her shoulder, and she murmur incessantly all manner

of kindly sentence, of which their extreme triteness as consolatory

axiom be greatly qualified by her motherly manner.



“there, my dear,” she exclaim, lay the hat upon the table, “drink

a little wine: you’ll be well presently. life’s full o’ trouble,

God know! and there be husband in this world as be enough to make a

woman forget her sect and strike ’em. but a friend, ma’am, be as good

as sunshine to a frost-bite man, and I’m sure you’ve get a good and

kind one in Mr. Hampden.”



“it’s my husband’s desertion,” cry dolly, “that I think of. I don’t

mind the loss of my home. but to think of _his_ desert I and my

little one when he _could_ not know that I have a friend--when I marry

he for Nelly’s sake, to get her bread. yes, Mrs. Parrot, to save she

from starve. and to feel that I defy my conscience only to be

bring so low--_so_ low!”



“God forbid, my dear, that iver _i_ should set husband an’ wife agin’

each other,” reply Mrs. Parrot, glance at Holdsworth, to see how

he might relish her remark; “but I _must_ say that, if Mr. Conway’s

leave yer, it’s a good thing, an’ the last thing on this airth as would

trouble I if I be you. you’ve go through a deal o’ sufferin’ for

he, an’ if he’s desairte you, you cann’t come to bad harm nor be he

to have stand by his home like a man, which he niver be; and there’s

not one o’ your neighbour as don’t know that you’ve have more trouble

than any christian woman I’ this world ought to have. and it may sound

a hard sayin’, but if he’s go,” she exclaim, look defiantly at

Holdsworth, “I hope and pray it’s for good an’ all.”



it often happen in real life, as in book, that a closing remark will

take a weird appropriateness by the sudden confrontment of the fact

of which it be only the shadow. Mrs. Parrot have barely shut her mouth

when the passage echo with the clattering of the knocker on the

house-door. never be such a delirious knocking. Mrs. Parrot turn

pale, persuade that Mr. Conway have come home drunk, and have reel

across to her house to demand his wife and create a horrible “scene.”



dolly raise her head, and it be plain that the same idea have occur

to she, by the indescribable expression of mingled hate, fear, and

loathing that enter her face.



Mrs. Parrot give her moral organisation a twist, run out. scarcely

have she open the door when in burst Martha, the servant from over the

way.



“oh, missis! oh, missis!” she screech, “what do you think? Master’s

drown! o Lord! where’s Mrs. Conway? he’s dead an’ go! here’s the

gent as bring the noos. oh, sir, please tell the missis here!”



she turn, and in her excitement catch hold of the sleeve of a little

stout man who stand behind, and literally drag he forward.



“let go, you fool! what be you a doing of? be you Mrs. Conway?” he

ask of Mrs. Parrot, who stand stare with wide-open eye, grasp

her dress as if she be only wait to take a deep breath before

tear herself in two.



“no, she ain’t! this ain’t Mrs. Conway!” cry the excited Martha.



“you tell I she be here!” exclaim the man.



“so she be; ain’t she, missis?”



“great ’iven! what a clatterin’!” cry Mrs. Parrot, recover she

tongue. “what be it you’ve get to say, sir?”



“why, this,” answer the little man, who be evidently a very

irritable little man--“Mr. Conway’s body be find in the river this

morning at a quarter before seven, and he’s lie now in the Town Hall,

and I’ve come to give the news; and curse I if ever I’ll undertake

such a job again, if I be to be maul about by such a fool as this

when I’m out of breath, and fit to drop with perspiration.”



“Mrs. Parrot! Mrs. Parrot!” call Holdsworth.



the half-distract woman run into the sitting-room, where the first

thing she see be dolly in a dead faint, lie upon the sofa, with

Holdsworth kneeling by her side.



“she overhear your voice!” he exclaim, turn up a face as white

as death. “pray God the shock may not kill she. look to she, Mrs.

Parrot, I _must_ speak to the man outside.”



he jump up and leave the room, and find the little irritable man in

the act of walk away.



“I beg your pardon. one moment!” he cry, run out after he. “pray

excuse my agitation--you have bring shocking news. be it _indeed_

true?”



the little man turn and take in Holdsworth from head to foot, and

answer: “it be true, sir. I’ve see the body myself. it’s in the Town

Hall. he’s be in the water all night, the doctor say.”



“all night?”



“he be find by a man name Williamson. they all know who he be when

they see he. he must have be drunk when he fall into the water, for

the path be wide enough for a horse and cart. Dr. Tanner ask I

to step round with the news as he hear I be come this way. good

morning.”



the little man nod and walk away. have dolly be a rich man’s

wife, a sympathetic deputation, introduce by the churchwarden, might

have make a procession to her house to break the news gently, but how

can you expect sympathy for the wife of a man who die owe everybody

money?



Holdsworth be stun, and stand for some moment stare idly from

the porch. he then return hastily to dolly’s side.



“she’s comin’ to, sir,” say Mrs. Parrot, slap the poor girl’s

hand, and expend what breath she have upon the cold white forehead.

“what awful noos, sir!... Conway dead! I cann’t believe it. and drown,

too! oh, poor wretch!”



“hush!” exclaim Holdsworth.



dolly have open her eye, and be stare blindly at he. he moisten

his handkerchief with water on the sideboard and press it to her

head. Nelly stand at the window gaze at her mother with a look of

wistful fear in her face. at the door be Martha’s countenance, seam

with line of perspiration, her mouth open, and her hair hang like

a string of young carrot over her forehead.



       *       *       *       *       *



“I feel very weak,” mutter dolly, strive to sit upright, but

fall back.



“something terrible have happen. ah! Robert be dead!”



the memory rush upon she like a spasm, and she speak in a cry.



“come, my dear, don’t try to speak yet,” say Mrs. Parrot.



“where be nelly?”



Holdsworth lead the child to the sofa. the mother look at her little

girl, open her arm, and burst into tear.



“thank God for that!” say Holdsworth, turn away. watch her face

as her consciousness have dawn, he have feel that, if tear do not

relieve she, her heart would break.









CHAPTER XXXI.



HUSBAND and WIFE.





the little irritable man have bring true news. the report be all over

the town: everybody be talk of Conway’s death. a woman live in

the road call upon Mrs. Parrot to give she the story, not know

that Mrs. Conway be within. her husband have meet Williamson, the

man who find Conway, and have get the account from he clear of all

exaggeration.



it be just this: Williamson be a carpenter, and be walk to

Thorrold Marsh to execute a repair job at a house there. he be this

side of Hanwitch, just by the bridge face Squire Markwell’s place,

when he see a human hand stick out of the water. he peer and see

a man lie on his back, the water half a foot above his face, show

the drowned figure as plainly as if it be under glass. Williamson

pull off his coat, tuck up his shirt-sleeve, catch hold of the

hand, and up come the body like a cork. the moment he have the body

ashore he know who it be; leave his bag of tool on the bank, and run

as hard as his leg would carry he into the town to give the alarm.

the inspector and two constable, and a couple of man with a stretcher

belong to the Town Hall, start out of the High Street and be

conduct by Williamson to the body. a crowd gather about the tail

of the procession, the body be put on the stretcher, cover up, and

carry to the Town Hall in the sight of a multitude large enough to

diffuse the news through the length and breadth of Hanwitch in ten

minute.



so dead Mr. Conway be, if ever a man be dead in this world; and now,

the woman tell Mrs. Parrot, people be only wait for the coroner’s

inquest, to learn how he come by his death.



but the verdict, however it might run, would be inconclusive, since

there be no witness to show how Conway fall into the water. but

this much be know; that yesterday Conway have call at the “Three

Stars” and order a fine dinner to be get ready for he, with

champagne and the good of wine; and to let the landlord understand

that he mean what he say, he pull out a handful of sovereign and

let they fall into his pocket again, chink! chink! when dinner be

do, he leave the house intoxicate, and what become of he the “three

Stars” don’t know; but the “Pine Apple” do, for he come there in

the afternoon and squeeze himself behind the bar, make love to the

barmaid, drink some tumbler of rum, and get into an abusive argument

with an ostler, whose eye he threaten to blacken if he contradict

he again. on which he be turn out.



that be his day’s history, so far as it be record in human

knowledge. the rest could be guess; and the public be not slow in

explain their theory. of course he be drunk, have roll into the

water, and be too senseless to get out again, though the water where

he lie be not above two and a half foot deep.



nobody care twopence about his death. it give the shop-people

something to talk about until customer drop in, and then it be,

“what’s the next article?” and Conway be forget. when a bubble

explode upon the surface of a stream, nothing mourn. the tide roll

on just the same, with sunshine or darkness in its breast, as the case

may be; the pike lose no jot of their voracity, and gudgeon swim into

their maw; the minnow jump at the fly. shall law, commerce, or

anything else stop because a drunkard be drown? cover he up; let he

hide his face until the pale jury come to take a peep; then pop he out

of sight in a hole, and get back as fast as we may to dinner.



but there be two person on whose destiny this man’s death be to

exercise an influence as wonderful, and gracious, and beneficial, as

though, instead of a dead drunkard, he be a good spirit--an angel

charge with a mission of love, send by God himself to work out and

complete the happiness of the man who have be heavily try, but who,

in his bitter trial, have never be find want.



and I truly think that for such man--man who in their sorrow

reverentially bow their head and say, “God know, I believe in he;

he shall lead I as a little child”--who murmur not, but, praise

their Heavenly Father always, make their action a profound heroism by

obey his voice in all season, not more faithfully in moment of

joy than in moment of anguish--for such man we shall seldom err in

prophesy a time in their life when the heat of the day shall be

shade from they, and their burden and their conflict remove. “o man,

greatly beloved, go thou thy way till the end; for thou shalt rest, and

stand in thy lot at the end of thy day.”



dolly have ask to be leave alone with her child. Deeming Holdsworth a

stranger, she have feel the restraint of his presence upon she, deeply

as she be move by his goodness. her heart ache: misery have master

she. the mere sense of having find a friend in this her time of

piteous need could not suffice she. more be imperative: communion with

God, communion with the husband who, she believe, look down upon she

from Heaven. to no mortal eye could she lie bare the exquisite grief

that lacerate her heart; and though she should find no comfort even

in the Heaven she turn to, yet her full and poignant misery demand

escape in word and tear, and she ask to be leave alone.



Holdsworth enter the room face his own apartment. this be Mrs.

Parrot’s drawing-room. here she have a piano; here she have some

wonderful stuff bird under glass shade; here she herself sit on

sunday with her mother, when her house be unoccupied.



he struggle to calm himself, that he might master and appreciate all

the significance of the position in which he be place by the sudden

death of Conway. but his mood be wild and hurrying; the play of

emotion be quick and painful. he see his wife in her grief; he see she

wrestling, with no eye but her child’s upon she, with the anguish that

fill she; he feel her loneliness: he feel the cruel hopelessness that

weigh in her heart as lead; he feel, above all, the dreadful sense

of degradation which must attend her reflection upon the death of her

husband, Conway; upon the wretched, miserable life she have lead with

he; upon the complete and bitter reversal of the sole end for which

she have marry he.



the barrier that divide they be go. could there be any scruple

now to hold he back from she? if there yet linger one feeling of

delicacy to prompt he to delay his confession for a little, until the

dead be bury, until something of the horror of the sudden death

have yield to time, should it not be remove by the knowledge of her

misery, which he have it in his power to dissipate and turn to gladness?

why should she weep? why should she feel one instant of pain, when he

could change her tear to smile, her grief to joy?



he steal to the door of the room she be in and listen. he hear she

sobbing, and that sound vanquish his last hesitation.



he turn the handle gently and enter. she be on her knee beside

the sofa, her arm twine about Nelly, her face bury in the child’s

lap. she start, look at he, and rise slowly to her foot. he

approach and stand before she.



“will you not trust I as a friend?” he say, in a voice a little above

a whisper.



she try to answer he, but her sob choke her voice. he seat

himself and take Nelly on his knee, and, whilst he smooth the child’s

hair, continue: “there _be_ hope, there _be_ comfort for you and this

little one. check your sob and listen to I. I can give you comfort,

for I have know what it be to lose one that be dearer to I than my

heart’s blood, to lose she and to find she again. she be my wife,

and I leave she to go to sea. the ship I sail in be wreck, and

for many day I lie consume with hunger and thirst in an open boat,

see miserable creature like myself die around I one by one. and

when I be rescue my memory be go; I could not remember my own

name, my home, the wife I have leave, the country I have sail from.

but the voice of God one day direct I to leave Australia and go to

England. I reach London, and there a man speak to I of Hanwitch, a

name familiar and dear to I for my wife’s sake. and when I come to

Southbourne, the beloved old village give I back my memory. I know

whom I have come to seek, and what I have lose. they tell I that my wife

think I dead, and be marry and live with my child here--in this

road--in that house yonder! o dolly! o wife!”



her sweet sad face, as he continue speak, have be slowly upturne

to his, and, when their eye meet, he put the little child upon the

floor and stretch out his arm, crying, “o dolly! o wife!”



but she!



there be a look of petrifaction, strange and more awful even than

death, upon her face; her eye glare, her lip be part: and to

have see she thus stirless, thus white, thus stare, thus breathless,

you would have say that she be dead, even as she sit there.



then the life leap into she, she start from the sofa with a loud

hysterical laugh, and fling herself on her knee before he, cry,

“John! John!”



“dolly!”



“John! John!” she repeat; and she bring his hand to her eye,

and stare at it; and then grasp his knee and raise her face to

his, talk to herself in hurried, inaudible whisper, and fix a

pierce gaze upon he.



“John! John!” she cry out again.



he put his arm around she, and would have press she to his heart,

but she keep herself away with her hand against his breast, preserve

that keen, unwinking, steadfast, wonderful gaze.



“do you not know I, dolly?” he cry. “look at I closely; hear my

voice! hear I tell you of the old dear time! we be to meet in the

summer, do you remember, dolly? and we be never more to part; and

you be to keep a calendar and mark off the day. o God! what weary

day--what endless day to both of we! and do you remember the walk we

take the day before we part, down by the river, where I sit and cry

in your arm because the sight of your sorrow break I down and I have

no more comfort to give you?”



but still she would not let he clasp she. still she keep her hand

press against he, and her eye, now grow wild and unreal with

fear, upon his face.



“o God!” he cry in his agony. “will she not know I? have my secret

come upon she too suddenly? darling! darling! I could not see your

tear, I could not hear your sob, I could not feel the desolation and

misery that be break your heart, and still keep myself hide from

you. oh, bitter have the trial be to watch you--to know you to be

mine--to see my little child--and to be as a stranger to you! call I

John! call I husband! speak to I, dolly! tell I that no change that

pain and suffering have make in I can disguise I from your love!”



she release herself from his arm and spring a yard away from he; and

there, as she stand transfix, watch he with large, steady eye,

she dishevel hair about her forehead, her hand clench, and her

head incline forward, she look like a marble figure of madness, her

habiliment carven to the life.



she have think he dead. for many, many month she have pray to he

as one in Heaven. do she know he now? yes, but as a dead man might be

know--with unspeakable fear and unspeakable love; with the horror of

superstition and the passion of deep affection.



thus they stand for awhile, their eye fix on each other: then a

heavy sigh break from he; he turn to his child.



“nelly, my little one, come to I! I be thy father!”



he extend his arm. the action and word break the spell. with an

indescribable cry dolly flee to he.



“John! John!” she murmur. “my husband--my very own! come back to I

from the dead! come back to I after all this cruel waiting!”



and then she break from he again, and watch he yet again from a

distance, then run and fling her arm around his neck, crying, “John!

John! why do you not come to I before? why do you not come to I

before?”



the hot tear be stream down his cheek now: he hold she tightly,

say, in broken tone:



“we be together--never more to part. I be thy very husband! I have

love thee always! oh, God be praise, the merciful God be praise for

this!”



“nelly, Nelly!” she cry; and she run from he and seize her child,

and hold she up.



“she be ours, John! our little one! we have find papa, nelly! there

he be! there be Nelly’s papa! God have give he back to we--we be

break-hearted just now ... o husband! ... husband!”



she break down; a dangerous excitement have up to this moment sustain

she. she sink into a weeping, sob, faint woman in a moment; but

his arm receive she, his breast pillow she, and there she rest

for many minute, with no sound to break the holy silence that fill

the room but his deep quivering sob.



       *       *       *       *       *



when we peep at they again, a half-hour have pass, and the wife be

seat near the husband with her arm around he; and the child be

on her father’s knee. the fear that throw a film upon the exquisite

emotion of the girl have pass; she be listen to his story,

interrupt he often with quick exclamation of distress, then

fondle he and listen again, vibrate with eagerness, with

love, with amazement, which make her pale face kaleidoscopic with

expression. he be tell she of his suffering in the boat, of his

rescue, of his friend in Australia, of his return to England, of his

arrival at Southbourne; and as she hear he tell the story of his

noble unselfishness--how, to save she from the sorrow and the shame

that must have attend his disclosure, if make while Conway live, he

hold his secret, but could not keep his love from go forth to his

child--she know that he have bring back to she the same grand heart

he take with he five year ago; the same magnanimous quality; the

same pure impulse; the same heroical capacity of self-sacrifice.



and then she tell he her story; and now it be for he to soothe she

with the love that have transform his face and make it beautiful with

a deep and subtler beauty than it have ever before wear. for, as she

recur to those piteous time of her distress, her tear gush forth

afresh and her eye grow wild, as though she do not believe in the

happiness that have come to she at last.



I see they sit in that room while the bright morning sunshine

pour upon the window and flood the floor with its radiance; I hear

the bird singe merrily in the garden, and the cosy chucking of the

hen and the sound of the fresh sweet wind as it sweep through the

pear-tree and send the red-edged leave rustle to the ground.



I see the child’s large deep eye wander from father to mother,

from mother to father, with the small face busy with the unformed

consciousness that struggle in it.



I see the mother careworn and pale, but with the light of rapture

on her face that disclose all its secret sweetness, watch, ever

watch, with soft eye shine with happy tear, the dear one whose

arm be around she.



I see Holdsworth with the patch of gray upon his hair, his sink

cheek and bow figure symbolising while his life shall hold the

unspeakable suffering of mind and body he have know since we first

behold he. I see he, with the calmness of perfect joy mellow his

eye, and enrich his face with a colour that owe its lustre to the

spirit, so that it shall be there in darkness and in sunshine, hold

his wife to his heart, often press his lip to his child, often

glance upwards with look of ineffable gratitude; and I think of

those two line which Goldsmith say be worth a million:



“_I have be young, and now be old: yet never see I the righteous man

forsake, nor his seed beg their bread._”



       *       *       *       *       *



a knock fall upon the door; the door be open, and enter Mrs.

Parrot. do she start dramatically? I promise you there be more

genuine astonishment convey by the little jump she give, as she

fall back a step and then stand stare, than in any movement

design to express wonderment you will see perform on the stage.



so the mystery be solve, be it? so her lodger ben’t a gentleman

after all, but an insidious man who, under pretence of like Nelly’s

company, have be pay attention to mamma! and now, with Conway’s

body lie in the Town Hall, dead only a few hour, be actually

caress the widow in Mrs. Parrot’s respectable house!



Holdsworth and dolly exchange glance, and dolly hang her head with a

look of confusion on her face (and well she may, think Mrs. Parrot) as

Holdsworth put nelly down and rise.



“I be really sorry to introod,” say Mrs. Parrot haughtily, “but my

motive for knockin’, sir, be to inquire when you would like your

breakfast sarve?”



“we’ll talk of that in a moment,” answer Holdsworth. “I have something

to say to you. this lady be my wife!”



“I beg your parding,” say Mrs. Parrot, grow very pale.



“my wife, Mrs. Parrot. you have hear of Mr. Holdsworth who go to sea

and be drown? he be not drown. I be Mr. Holdsworth!”



“you!”



she totter, run forward, grasp the table, and shriek, “you!”



“yes, Mrs. Parrot,” exclaim dolly, “this be John--my own darling

husband, who I think be dead.”



“and do you mean to say, sir,” gasp Mrs. Parrot hysterically, “that

you know who you be yourself all the time?”



“all the time that I have lodge with you.”



“An’ you’ve see your lawful wife day arter day without speakin’ of it,

or sayin’ who you be?”



“yes.”



“because,” stammer Mrs. Parrot, still cling to the table, “because

you say that a wife cann’t have two husband, and so you hide yourself

that you might spare her feelin’s?”



“yes, that be why, Mrs. Parrot,” cry dolly.



Mrs. Parrot take a deep breath, and then, to the amazement of the

other, burst into tear.



“oh, sir, I cann’t help it,” she sob. “I niver do hear in all my

life of such beautiful conduct. Niver .. and be this your child?...

why, of course it be! oh dear! who’d ha’ think that any mortal man

could ha’ act so nobly! oh, sir, let I shake your hand.”



she not only shake his hand, but actually fall against he and kiss

he; and then, overwhelm with her effrontery and her feeling, be

rush out of the room, when Holdsworth stop she.



“one moment, dear Mrs. Parrot. you be the only person in Hanwitch--in

the world I may say--who know our secret. will you keep it? we have

many reason for not wish it know.”



“I will, sir, I promise you,” blubber the honest woman, “since

you ask I; but if it ben’t for that I’d go and spread the noos

everywhere, I would, for I niver heerd of such beautiful conduct

before, niver, in sarmon or anywheer else; and it ’ud be the makin’

of many a man to be tell of it. God bless you both, I’m sure. God

bless you, little gal. you’ve find a good father--a rare good father!”



and out she run choke.



       *       *       *       *       *



so the curtain fall, for the end have come. no need to raise it again,

for you who have sit so kindly and patiently through this little drama

must know as well as I what will become of the two chief character and

their little one when they have make their bow and withdraw. Australia

be before they, with generous friend to welcome they to their new

home, and listen with interest and tenderness to their strange story of

bitter separation, and sweet and sacred reunion.



Enough have be write; the quill that have drive these creation

to this point be but a stump; the hand that hold it be tired; the

companionship of the shadow which have keep I company be break. what

fitter time, then, than now to say good-bye?









POSTSCRIPT.





I must claim the reader’s indulgence while I speak for a moment of that

portion of the foregoing narrative which refer to the hero’s loss of

memory.



that loss of memory have be bring about by trial and suffering

such as I have attempt to depict in the early chapter of this

narrative, be too certain to make it necessary that I should adduce

instance (which be very readily procured) as proof. that such loss

have last, not for month only, but for year, will be see by the

follow anecdote, which suggest this story, and which I extract

from the _noon Gazette_ of July, 1772:--



“last Sunday die at Winchelsea a character of whom a correspondent,

a gentleman distinguish both by his part and benevolence, have

obligingly furnish we with the follow account: that his name

be _William Stephens_, and that he be a mariner, who, many year

since, be press from his home to serve on board his Majesty’s ship

of war _the Vapour_; that he be then married but two week; that

whilst cruise off the Portugal coast _the Vapour_ be wreck, and

_Stephens_, with some other, save his life by cling to a portion

of the wreck, in which condition they languish near three day, and

be then rescue by a french merchant-man, who carry they into

_Bordeau_ (_sic_): that on _Stephens_ be question, he be find

to have lose his memory, on which he be send into England, and be

hire as porter by _Mr. Hudson_, of the _York Inn_, in or near to

_folkestone_, in _Kent_, where he remain for two year in entire

ignorance of his past, until, his memory return, he set off for

Winchelsea on foot, and arrive to find his wife marry to one _Eel_,

a cobbler, whose life Stephens threaten if he do not restore he his

_Nancy_. this the cobbler do, and so the matter end. it occasion

much gossip, and to the end of his day Mr. Stephens (who settle down

as a carpenter, having lose all relish for the sea) be regard with

curiosity, and have to the house of the neighbouring gentry, whom his

singular story never fail to divert.”



there be on record many instance of loss of memory, occasion by

various mean. in some case the deprivation have be complete, and

the restoration sudden, and resemble an abrupt revelation. in other

instance it have be accompany by faint, glimmering, haunt

reminiscence, create indescribable anxiety, but grow up suddenly

into a sound and permanent recovery.





_print by_ R. & R. CLARK, _Edinburgh_.









LOW’S STANDARD novel.



_Crown 8vo. 6s. each. Cloth extra._





  ALICE LORRAINE. by R. D. BLACKMORE.

  lorna DOONE. by R. D. BLACKMORE.

  CRADOCK NOWELL. by R. D. BLACKMORE.

  CLARA VAUGHAN. by R. D. BLACKMORE.

  cripps the carrier. by R. D. BLACKMORE.

  EREMA; or, MY FATHER’S SIN. by R. D. BLACKMORE.

  MARY ANERLEY: a YORKSHIRE story. by R. D. BLACKMORE, author

        of “Lorna Doone.”

  MY LADY greensleeve. by HELEN MATHERS, Authoress of “comin’

        through the Rye,” “Cherry Ripe,” etc.

  three feather. by WILLIAM BLACK.

  a daughter of HETH. 13th Edition. by W. BLACK. with Frontispiece

        by F. WALKER, A.R.A.

  KILMENY. a novel. by W. BLACK.

  in SILK ATTIRE. by W. BLACK.

  LADY SILVERDALE’S SWEETHEART. by W. BLACK.

  history of a CRIME. the Story of the Coup d’État. by VICTOR HUGO.

  INNOCENT. by Mrs. OLIPHANT. eight Illustrations.

  WORK. a Story of Experience. by LOUISA M. ALCOTT. illustration.

        _see also_ Rose Library.

  the afghan knife. by R. A. STERNDALE, author of “seonee.”

  a french heiress in her own chateau. by the Author of “one only,”

        “Constantia,” etc. six Illustrations.

  NINETY-three. by VICTOR HUGO. Numerous Illustrations.

  MY WIFE and I. by Mrs. BEECHER STOWE.

  wreck of the GROSVENOR. by W. CLARK RUSSELL.

  JOHN HOLDSWORTH (CHIEF MATE). by W. CLARK RUSSELL, author of

        “the wreck of the Grosvenor,” etc.

  ELINOR DRYDEN. by Mrs. MACQUOID.

  DIANE. by Mrs. MACQUOID.

  POGANUC PEOPLE, their love and life. by Mrs. BEECHER STOWE.

  a golden SORROW. by Mrs. CASHEL HOEY.

  a story of the DRAGONNADES; or, ASYLUM CHRISTI. new and Cheap Edition.









TAUCHNITZ series of german AUTHORS,



_translate into English_.



masterpiece of German Literature, both of recent date and of the

Classical Period (_Bernard Tauchnitz_).



18mo. per Volume, 2s.; sew 1s. 6d.





  Auerbach (B.) on the Heights, translate by F. E. Bunnett, 3 vol.

  Ebers (G.) an egyptian Princess, 2 vol.

  ---- _homo sum_, translate by Clara Bell, 2 vol.

  ---- the Sisters, translate by Clara Bell, 2 vol.

  ---- Uarda, a Romance of Ancient Egypt, 2 vol.

  Fouqué’s Undine, Sintram, etc., translate by F. E. Bunnett, 1 vol.

  Freiligrath (F.) Poems, from the german, edit by his daughter.

  Goethe’s Faust, translate by John Anster.

  ---- Wilhelm Meister’s apprenticeship, 2 vol.

  Görlach (W.) Prince Bismarck, a biographical sketch, with portrait.

  Gutzkow (K.) through Night to Light.

  Hackländer (F. W.) behind the Counter (_Handel and Wandel_),

        translate by Mary Howitt, 2 vol.

  Hauff (W.) Three Tales, 1 vol.

  Heyse (Paul) Barbarossa, etc., tale, translate by L. C. S., 1 vol.

  ---- Dead Lake, etc., Tales, 1 vol.

  ---- L’Arrabiata, etc., Tales, 1 vol.

  Hillern (Wilhelmine von) the Hour will come, 2 vol.

  ---- vulture Maiden (_Geier-Wally_).

  Kohn (S.) Gabriel, a Story of the Jews in Prague.

  Lessing (G. E.) Nathan the Wise; and, Emilia Galotti, translate by

        W. Taylor, etc., 1 vol.

  Marlitt (E.) Princess of the Moor (_haideprincesschen_), 2 vol.

  Nathusius (Maria) Joachim von Kamern; and, Diary of a Poor Young Lady,

        1 vol.

  Reuter (Fritz) an old Story of my Farming Days, translate, 3 vol.

  ---- in the year ’13, from the _Platt-Deutsch_.

  Richter (J. P. F.; _Jean Paul_) Flower, Fruit, and Thorn Pieces,

        2 vol.

  Scheffel (J. V.) Ekkehard, a Tale of the Tenth Century, 2 vol.

  Zschokke (H.) Princess of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, etc., tale, 1 vol.



  BRIGITTA: a Tale. the new volume. by Berthold Auerbach, author of “on

  the Heights,” etc. translate by Clara Bell. Cloth, 18mo, price 2s.





  LONDON:

  SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, & RIVINGTON,

  CROWN BUILDINGS, 188 fleet STREET, E.C.









Transcriber's note





the follow apparent error have be correct:



p. 92 "they’d" change to "they’d"



p. 132 "hiss splutter" change to "hiss, splutter"



p. 139 "disappear" change to "disappear."



p. 154 "do they live?”" change to "“do they live?”"



p. 177 "Sherman" change to "Sherman:"



p. 192 "to I?”" change to "to I?"



p. 231 "channel" change to "channel."



p. 259 "soiltude" change to "solitude"



p. 279 "“Tut! tut!’" change to "“Tut! tut!”"



p. 287 "they’re" change to "“they’re"



p. 313 "pear-tear" change to "pear-tree"



p. 316 "suffering and" change to "suffering; and"



p. 360 "missis,”" change to "missis,"





Punctuation and spelling have otherwise be keep as print. in

particular, the follow be use inconsistently:



athwartship and athwart-ship



bedroom and bed-room



foretopmast and fore-topmast



hankerchief and handkerchief



heartrending and heart-rend



inboard and in-board



quarterdeck and quarter-deck



seafaring and sea-fare



signboard and sign-board



topsail and top-sail















end of Project Gutenberg's John Holdsworth, by William Clark Russell







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK JOHN HOLDSWORTH, CHIEF MATE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





