The project Gutenberg eBook of Stories by English Authors: the Sea

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: story by English Authors: the Sea



Contributor: William Clark Russell

        Grant Allen

        Walter Besant

        G. B. O'Halloran



Release date: July 1, 2004 [ebook #6041]

                most recently update: May 21, 2016



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Aldarondo, Charles Franks, Nicole Apostola and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK story by ENGLISH AUTHORS: the sea ***









produce by Charles Aldarondo, Charles Franks, Nicole

Apostola and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.





















story by ENGLISH AUTHORS



the SEA





  the EXTRAORDINARY adventure of a chief mate BY W. CLARK RUSSELL

  QUARANTINE island by SIR WALTER BESANT

  the ROCK SCORPIONS ANONYMOUS

  the MASTER of the "CHRYSTOLITE" BY G. B. O'HALLORAN

  "petrel" and "the black swan" ANONYMOUS

  MELISSA'S TOUR by GRANT ALLEN

  VANDERDECKEN'S MESSAGE HOME ANONYMOUS













THE EXTRAORDINARY adventure of a chief mate



BY W. CLARK RUSSELL





in the newspaper of 1876 appear the following extract from

the log of a merchantman: "VOLCANIC ISLAND in the NORTH ATLANTIC.

--The ship Hercules, of Liverpool, lately arrive in the Mersey,

report as follow: March 23, in 2 deg. 12' north latitude, 33 deg.

27' west longitude, a shock of earthquake be feel, and shortly

afterward a mass of land be hove up at a distance of about two mile

from the ship. Michael Balfour, the chief officer, fall overboard.

a buoy be throw to he, the ship bring to the wind, and a boat

lower within fifteen minute of the occurence. but though the

man seek the chief mate for some time, nothing could be see of

he, and it be suppose that he sink shortly after fall into

the sea. master of vessel be recommend to keep a sharp lookout

in approach the situation of the new island as give above. no

doubt it will be sight by other ship, and duly report."



I be Michael Balfour; I it be who fall overboard; and it be

needless for I to say here that I not drown. the volcanic island

be only report by one other ship, and the reason why will be

read at large in this account of my strange adventure and merciful

deliverance.



it be the evening of the 23d of March, 1876. our passage to the

equator from Sydney have be good, but for three day we have be

bother with light head wind and calm, and since four o'clock

this day the ocean have stretch in oil-smooth undulation to its

margin, with never a sigh of air to crispen its marvellous serenity

into shadow. the course be haul up, the staysail down, the

mizzen brail up; the canvas delicately beat the mast to the soft

swing of the tall spar, and send a small rippling thunder through

the still air, like a roll of drum hear at a distance. the heat

be great; I have never remember a more biting sun. the pitch in

the seam be soft as putty, the atmosphere be full of the smell

of blister paint, and it be like put your hand on a red-hot

stove to touch the binnacle hood or grasp for an an instant an iron

belaying-pin.



a sort of loathing come into a man with a calm like this. "the

very deep do rot," say the poet; and you understand his fancy

when you mark the blind heave of the swell to the sun stand

in the midst of a sky of brass, with his wake under he sink in

a sinuous dazzle, as though it be his fiery glance pierce to the

green depth a thousand fathom deep. it be hot enough to slacken

the nerve and give the imagination a long scope than sanity

would have it ride by.



that be why, perhaps, I find something awful and forbid in

the sunset, though at another time it might scarcely have detain

my gaze a minute. but it be true, nevertheless, that other besides

I gape at the wonderful gushing of hot purple,--arrested whirlpool

of crimson haze, they looked,--in the heart of which the orb sit

rayless, flood the sea with blood under he, so magnificently

fall be the hue, and flush the sky with twenty dye of gold

and orange, till, in the far east, the radiance faint into the

delicacy of pale amber.



"Yon's a sunset," say Captain Matthews, a North of England man,

to I, "to make a fellow think of the last day."



"I'm look at it, sir," say I, "as though I have never see a

sunset before. that's the oddest part of it, to my mind. there's

fire enough there to eat a gale up. how should a cat's-paw crawl

then?" and I softly whistle, while he wet his finger and hold

it up; but to no purpose; the draught be all between the rail,

and they blow forward and aft with every swing of the sail.



when the dusk come along, the silence upon the sea be something

to put all sort of mood into a man. the sky be a hover velvet

stretch of star, with a young moon lie curl among they, and

winking of delicate violet sheet-lightning down in the southwest,

as though some gigantic-tint lantern, pass, fling its light

upon the dark blue obscure there. the captain go below, after a

long, impatient look round, and I overhang the rail, peer into

the water alongside, or send my gaze into the frightful distance,

where the low-lie star hang. with every soft dip of the ship's

side to the slant of the dark fold, there shoot forth puff of

cloudy phosphor, intermix with a sparkling of sharp fire now

and again, blue, yellow, and green, like worm of flame strike

out of their cocoon of misty radiance. the noise of the canvas on

high resemble the stirring of pinion, and the cheep of a block,

the grind of a parrel, help the illusion, as though the sound

be the voice of huge bird restlessly beat their pinion

aloft.



presently the man at the wheel startle I with an observation.

I go to he, and he point upward with a long, shadowy arm. I

look, and see a corposant, as it be call at sea,--a St. Elmo's

fire,--burning at the end of the crossjack-yard. the yard lay

square, and the polished sea beneath give back the reflection so

clearly that the mystic fire lie like a huge glow-worm on the black

mirror.



"there should be wind not far off," say the helmsman, in a subdued

voice; for few sailor can see one of these light without a stirring

of their superstitious instinct, and this particular exhalation

hang close to we.



"I hope so," say I, "though I don't know where it's to come from."



as I speak, the light vanish. I run my eye over the yard,

expect its reappearance; but it return no more, and the sail

rise pale and phantom-like to the star. I be in an odd humour,

and this be an apparition not to brighten one up. of course one

know all about these maritime corpse-candle, and can explain

their nature; but nevertheless the sudden kindling of they upon

the darkness of the night, in the dead hush of the calm or amid the

fury of the shriek hurricane, produce feeling which there be

nothing in science to resolve. I could have laugh to find myself

send a half-awed look aloft, as if I expect to see some visionary

hand at work upon another one these graveyard illumination-with

a stealing out of some large, sad face to the melancholy glow; but

I return to the side very pensive for all that, and there stand

watch the fiery outline of a shark subtly sneak close to the

surface (insomuch that the wake of its fin slip away in little

coil of green flame) toward the ship's bow.



half an hour later the dark curl of a light air of wind shatter

the starlight in the sea, and our canvas fall asleep. I call to

the watch to trim sail, and in a few moment the deck be busy

with the figure of man pull and haul and surge out at the

rope in sulky, slumberous growling. the captain arrive.



"little worth have in this, I fear," say he. "but make the most

of it--make the most of it. get the foretopmast stunsail run up.

if she creep but a league, it be a league to the good."



the sail be sleepily set. humbug about with stunsail to the

cat's-paw little please the man, especially at night. for three

day they have be boxhaule the yard about to no purpose, and

it be sicken work run stunsail-boom out to air that die

in their struggle to reach we. however, here be a draught at

last, and the old gurgling and moaning sound of the breathless,

sluggish swell washing heavily like liquid lead to the side be

replace by the tinkle noise of water part at the bow with

a pretty little seething of expire foam, and the hiss of explode

froth-bell. at eleven o'clock the light breeze be still hold,

and the ship be float softly through the dusk, the paring

of moon sway like a silver sickle over the port mizzen topsail

yard-arm, everything quiet along the deck, no light save the

sheen from the lamp in the binnacle, and nothing stir but the

figure of a man on the forecastle pacing athwartship, and blot

out at every step a handful of the star which lie like dust

on the blackness, under the yawn of the forecourse. on a sudden a

steamer's light show on the starboard bow--a green beam, and a

yellow one above, with the water on fire beneath they, and sparks

float away upon her coil of smoke, that make you think of the

spangle of a fall rocket. she go past swiftly, at no great

distance from we. there be not a moan in the hot breeze to disturb

the wonderful ocean stillness, and you almost think you catch

the beating of the iron heart in she, and the curious monotonous

song which engine sing as they work. she sweep past like a phantom,

run a line of illuminated window along, which resemble a

row of street-lamp out in the darkness; and as she come on to our

quarter she strike seven bell (half-past eleven), the rich metallic

note of which I clearly hear; and with the trembling of the last

stroke upon the ear her outline melt.



at that instant a peculiar thrill run through the ship. it may

be liken to the trembling in a floor when a heavy waggon pass

in the street outside. it be over in a breath, but I could have

swear that it be not my fancy. I walk aft to the wheel, and

say to the man, "do you notice anything just now?"



"seem to I as if the vessel tremble like," he reply.



as he speak the ship shake again, this time strongly. it be

something more than a shudder; the sensation be for all the world

as though she have scrape over a shoal of rock or shingle. there

be a little clatter below, a noise of broken glass. the watch,

who have be doze on deck, spring to their foot, and their

ejaculation of surprise and fear roll in a growl among they.

the captain run out of the companionway in his shirt and trouser.



"what be that, Mr. Balfour?" he bawl.



"either the shock of an earthquake," say I, "or a whale slide

along our keel."



"get a cast of the lead! get a cast of the lead!" he shout.



this be do to the full scope of the hand-line, without bottom,

of course. by this time the watch below have tumble up, and all

hand be now on deck, stare aloft or over the side, sniff,

spit, muttering, and wonder what have happen.



"there's that bloomin' compreesant come again!" exclaim a hoarse

voice; and, sure enough, a light similar to the one that have hang

at the crossjack yard-arm now float upon the end of the upper

maintopsail-yard.



"the devil's abroad to-night!" exclaim the captain. "there's

sulphur enough about," and he fall a-snuffling.



what follow might have make an infidel suppose so; for scarce

be the word out of his mouth when there happen an astonishing

blast of noise, as loud and violent as that of forty or fifty cannon

fire off at once, and out of the black sea no far than a mile

broad on the starboard beam rise a pillar of fire, crimson as the

light of the set sun and as dazzle too; it live while you

might have count twenty, but in that time it light up the sea

for league and league, put out the star, and make the sky resemble

a canopy of yellow satin; we on the ship see one another's face

as if by daylight; the shroud and mast and our own figure cast

jet-black shadow on the deck; the whole ship flash out to that

amazing radiance like a fabric sun-touch. the column of fire

then fatten and disappear, and the night roll down upon our

blind eye as black as thunder.



there be no noise--no hiss as of boiling water. if the furious

report that precede the leap of the fire have render its come

terrible, its extinction be make not less awful by the tomb-like

stillness that attend it. I spring on to the rail, believe I

could perceive a dark mass--like a deep dye upon the blackness

that way--upon the water, and to steady myself catch hold of the

mizzen loyal backstay, swinge out to my arm's length and peer

with all my might. my excitement be great, and the consternation

that posesse the ship's crew be upon I. as I lean, the

vessel heel violently to a large swell cause by the volcanic

disturbance. the roll be extraordinarily severe, heave the

vessel down to her covering-board; and the great hill of water

run silent and in darkness through the sea, so that it could

neither be view nor hear, make the sickening lurch a dreadful

surprise and wonder.



it be in that moment that I fall overboard. I suppose my grip of

the backstay relax when the ship lie down; but, let the thing

have happen how it would, in a breath I be under water. it be

say that the swiftness of thought be well show by dream. this

may be so; yet I cannot believe that thought be ever swifter in

a dream than it be in I ere I come to the surface; for in those

few second I gather exactly what have befall I, wonder

whether my fall have be see, whether I should be save, realise

my hopeless condition if I have not be observe, and, above all, be

think steadfastly and with horror of the shark I have not long

ago watch stem in fire past the ship. I be a very indifferent

swimmer, and what little power I have in that way be like to be

paralyse by thought of the shark. I rise and fetch a breath,

shake the water out of my eye, and look for the ship. she have

be slide along at the rate of about four knot an hour; but

have she be sail at ten she could not seem to have go far

from I during the brief while I be submerge. from the edge of

the water, where my eye be, she appear a tower pale shadow

about a mile off. I endeavour to scream out; but whether the cold

of the plunge have bereft I of my voice, or that I have swallow

water enough to stop my pipe, I find I could utter nothing

louder than a small groan. I make several stroke with my arm,

and suddenly spy a life-buoy float almost twenty yard ahead

of I. I make for it in a transport of joy, for the sight of it

be all the assurance I could ask that they know on the ship that

I have tumble overboard; and, come to the buoy, I seize and

throw it over my head, and then get it under my arm and so floated.



the breeze, such as it be, be on the ship's quarter, and she

would need to describe a considerable arc before she round to.

I could hear very faintly the voice on board, the flinging down

of coil of rope, the dim echo of hurry and commotion. I again

seek to exert my lung, but could deliver no loud note than a

moan. the agony of mind I be under lest a shark should seize I I

cannot express, and my strained eyeball would come from the tall

shadow of the ship to the the sea about I in a wild searching of

the liquid ebony of it for the sparkling configuration of the most

abhor of all fish. I could have swear that hour elapse before

they lower a boat from the ship, that seem to grow fainter and

fainter every time I look at she, so swallow be the character

of ocean darkness, and so subtle apparently, so fleet in fact, the

settle away of a fabric under canvas from an object stationary

on the water. I could distinctly hear the rattle of the oar in

the rowlock, and the splash of the dip blade, but could not

discern the boat. it be speedily evident, however, that they be

pull wide of I; my ear could not mistake. again I try to

shout, but to no purpose. manifestly no one have think of take

my bearing when I fall, and I, who lie south, be be seek

for southwest.



Time pass; the boat never approach I within a quarter of a

mile. they must instantly have hear I, could I have halloe; but

my throat refuse its office. I reckon that they continue to

row here and there for about half an hour, during which they be

several time hail by the captain, as I suppose; the sound of

the oar then die. a little later I hear the very faint noise

make by their hoisting the boat and haul in upon the brace,

and then there be nothing for I to do but to watch, with die

eye, the shadow of the ship till it fade, and the star shine

where she have be.



the sky shed very little light, and there be no foam to cast an

illumination of its own. however, by this time, as you will suppose,

I be use to my situation; that be to say, the horror and novelty

of my condition have abate, and settle into a miserable feeling

of despair; so that I be like a die man who have pass day in

an open boat, and who languidly direct his eye over the gunwale

at the sea, with the hopelessness that be breed by familiarity with

his dreadful posture. it be some time after the ship have melt

into the airy dusk that I seem to notice, for the first time

since I have be in the life-buoy, the lump of blackness at which

I have be strain my eye when the vessel heel and I fall.

it have the elusiveness of a light at sea, that be well see (at

a distance) by gaze a little on one side of it. it lay, a black

mass, and whether it be a vast huddle of weed, or a great whale

kill by the earthquake, or solid land upheave by the volcanic

rupture, be not conjecturable. it hang, still and not very tall,

for I could not see that it put out any star, and be about a mile

distant. whatever it might prove, I could not be bad off near

or on or amid it than I be here; so, set my face toward it,

I begin to strike out with my leg and arm.



the water be so fiery, it chip in flash to every blow of my

hand. I swam in the utmost terror, never know but that the next

moment I should be feel the tooth of a shark upon my leg, for

the sparkling of the sea to my kick and motion be signal enough

for such a beast if it be a league distant; but I may as well say

here that there be no doubt the shock of earthquake and the flame

effectually clear the sea in its neighbourhood of every kind

of fish that float in it, though the hope of such a thing could

yield I but very little comfort while I swam.



I continue to make good progress, and presently approach the

block of blackness, for so it look, perceive that it be certainly

land,--a solid rock, in short,--the head of some mountainous

submarine formation lift ten or twelve foot above the sea. I could

now discern a faintness of vapour circle up from it and show

like steam against the star. its front stretch a length of a

few hundred foot; how far it go behind I could not tell. a small

sound of creaming water come from it, produce by the light swell

wash its shelter side. it lie all in a line of grayish darkness

even when I be quite close, and I could see nothing but the shapeless

body of it. of a sudden my foot strike ground, and I wade thirty

pace along a shelf that be under water till my pace lift to

the dry beach. but by this time I be fearfully exhausted; I could

scarcely breathe. my leg and arm be numb to the weight of

lead. the atmosphere be warm, but not unbearably so--not hotter

than it have be at noon in the ship. Steam crawl up from every

pore, like the draining of smoke from damp straw, but it do not

add to the distress of my breathing. I make shift to stagger onward

till I have go about fifty foot from the wash of the sea. nature

then break down; my knee give way, I stumble and fall--whether

in a swoon or whether in a death-like slumber, I cannot say; all

I can tell be that when I awake, or recover my sense, the sun

stand fifteen degree above the horizon, and I open my eye upon

a hot and dazzling sky.



I sit up in the utmost amazement. my mind for some time be all

abroad, and I could recollect nothing. memory then enter I with

a bound, and I stagger to my foot with a cry. the first thing

I take notice of be that my clothe be nearly dry, which be

not very reconcilable with the steam that be still issue from

the island, though it be as I say. my bone ache cruelly, but

I be not sensible of any particular languor. the brilliance be

so blind that I have to employ my eye very warily in order

to see; and it be not until I have keep open and shut they

and shade they with my hand for some minute that they acquire

their old power. the island on which I stand have unquestionably be

hove up in the night by the earthquake. I cannot figure it well

than by ask you to imagine a gigantic mass of pumice-stone,

somewhat flat on top, and shelve on all side very gently to the

water, lie afloat but steady on the sea. it be of the hue of

pumice, and as clean as an egg-shell, without a grain of calcine

dust or any appearance of scoria that I could anywhere observe.

it be riddle with hole, some wide and deep--a very honeycomb;

and that I do not break my neck or a limb in staggering walk from

the beach in the darkness, I must ever account the most miraculous

part of my adventure.



but what (when I have my whole wit) rivet my attention, and hold

I stare open-mouthed, as though in good truth the apparition of

the devil have rise before I, be the body of a ship lean on

its bilge, at not more than a gunshot from where I stand, look

toward the interior. when my eye first go to the thing I could

not believe they. I imagine it some trick of the volcanic explosion

that have fashion a portion of the land or rock (as it may be

call) into the likeness of a ship, but, on gaze steadfastly, I

see that it be indeed a vessel, render extraordinarily beautiful

and wonderful by be densely cover with shell of a hundred

different kind, by which her bulk be enlarge, though her shape

be preserve. bright fountain of water be gush from fifty

place in she, all these waterfall shine like rainbow, and show

surprisingly soft and lovely against the velvet green of the moss

and the gray and kaleidoscopic tint of the shell upon she. lose

in amazement, I make my way toward she, and stand view she at

a short distance. she have three low mast stand--one right

in the bow, and the mizzen rake very much aft. all three mast

be support by shroud, and that be all the rigging the sea

have leave. she look to be make of shell and moss; her shroud and

mast be incrust as thickly as her hull. she be a mere tub of

a ship in shape, be scarce twice as long as she be broad, with

great fat buttock, a very tall stern narrowing atop, and low bow

with a prodigious curve to the stem-head. I be not well verse in

the shipping of olden time, but I would have willingly stake all

I be worth in the world that the fabric before I belong to a

period not much later than the day of Columbus, and that she have

be sink at least three century below the sea; and it be also

perfectly clear to I that she have rise in the daylight, out of

her green and oozy sepulchre, with the upheaval of the bed on which

she lie to the convulsion that have produce this island.



but my situation be not one to suffer I to stand long idly

wonder and stare. the moment I bring my eye away from

the ship to the mighty desolation of the blue and gleam ocean,

a horror break upon I, my heart turn into lead, and in the

anguish of my spirit I involuntarily lift my clinched hand to

God. what be to become of I? I have no boat, no mean of make

anything to bear I, nothing but the life-buoy, that be no well

than a trap for shark to tear I to piece in. I be thirsty, but

there be no fresh water on this steaming speck of rock, and I tell

you, the knowing that there be none, and that unless rain fall

I must die of thirst, have like to have drive I mad. where the

ship be, and beyond it, the island rise somewhat in the form of

a gentle undulation. I walk that way, and there obtain a view

of the whole island, which be very nearly circular, like the head

of a hill, somewhat after the shape of a saucepan lid. it resemble

a great mass of sponge to the sight, and there be no break upon its

surface save the incrusted ship, which do, indeed, form a very

conspicuous object. happen to look downward, I spy a large

dead fish, of the size of a cod of sixteen or eighteen pound,

lie a-dry in a hole. I put my arm down and drag it out, and,

hope by appease my hunger to help my thirst somewhat, I open

my knife and cut a little raw steak, and eat it. the moisture in the

flesh refresh I, and, that the sun might not spoil the carcass,

I carry it to the shadow make by the ship, and put it under one

of the waterfall that the play might keep it sweet. there be

plenty more dead fish in the numerous hole, and I pick out two

and put they in the shade; but I know that the great heat must

soon taint they and rot the rest, whence would come a stench that

might make the island poisonous to I.



I sit down under the bend of the ship for the shadow it throw,

and gaze at the sea. perhaps I ought to have feel grateful for

the miraculous creation of this spot of land, when, but for it, I

must have miserably perish in the life-buoy, die a most dreadful,

slow, torment death, if some shark have not quickly despatch

I; but the solitude be so frightful, my doom seem so assured,

I be threaten with such dire suffering ere my end come, that,

in the madness and despair of my heart, I could have curse the

intervention of this rock, which promise nothing but the prolongation

of my misery. there be but one live spark amid the ashe of my

hope; namely, that the island lie in the highway of ship, and

that it be impossible a vessel could sight so unusual an object

without deviate from her course to examine it. that be all the

hope I have; but God know there be nothing in it to keep I alive

when I set off against it the consideration that there be no water

on the island, no food; that a ship would have to sail close to

remark so flat and little a point as this rock; and that day, ay,

and week might elapse before the rim of yonder boundless surface,

stretch in airy league of deep blue to the azure sky at the

horizon, should be break by the star-like shining of a sail.



happily, the wondrous incrust bulk be at hand to draw my thought

away from my hideous condition; for I verily believe, have my eye

find nothing to rest upon but the honeycombed pumice, my brain would

have give way. I stand up and take a long view of the petrify

shell-cover structure, feel a sort of awe in I while I look,

for it be a kind of illustration of the saying of the sea give

up its dead, and the thing stir I almost as though it have be

a corpse that have rise to the sun, after having be a secret of

the deep for three hundred year.



it occur to I that if I could board she she might furnish I

with a shelter from the dew of the night. she have channel with

long plate, all look as if they be form of shell; and

step round to the side toward which she lean, I find the

fore channel-plate to be within reach of my hand. the shell be

slippery and cutting; but I be a sailor, and there would have be

nothing in a hard climb than this to daunt I. so, after a bit

of a struggle, I succeed in haul myself into the chain, and

thence easily drag myself over the rail on to the deck.



the sight between the bulwark be far more lovely and surprising

than the spectacle present by the ship's side. for the deck

seem not only form of shell of a hundred different hue;

there be a great abundance of branch coral, white as milk,

and marine plant of kind for which I could not find name, of

several brilliant colour; so that, what with the delicate velvet

of the moss, the dark shade of seaweed of figuration as dainty

as those of fern, and the different sort of shell, big and

little, all lie as solid as if they have be set in concrete,

the appearance of the ship submit be something incredibly

fantastic and admirable. whether the hatch be on or not I could

not tell, so thickly coat be the deck; but whether or not, the

deposit and marine growth render the surface as impenetrable

as iron, and I believe it would have keep a small army of labourer

ply their pickaxe for a whole week to have make opening into

the hold through that shelly coating of mail.



my eye be take by a peculiar sort of protuberance at the foot

of the mainmast. it stand as high as I do, and have something of

the shape of a man, and, indeed, after stare at it for some time,

I perceive that it have be a man; that be to say, it be a human

skeleton, fill up to the bulk of a living being by the shell and

barnacle which cover it. ashore, it might have pass for some

odd imitation in shell of the human figure; but, view it as I

do, in the midst of that great ocean, amid the frightful solitude

of the great dome of heaven, in a ship that be like the handiwork

of the sea-god at the bottom of the deep--I say, look at it as

I do, and know the thing have have life in century past, and

have rise thus wildly garnish out of the unfathomable secret

heart of the ocean, it awe I to an extent I cannot express, and

I gaze as though fascinated. in all probability, this be a man

who, when the ship founder, have be securely lash to the mast

for safety or for punishment.



I turn away at last with a shudder, and walk aft. the wreck

be unquestionably some spanish or portuguese carrack or galleon

as old as I have state; for you see her shape when you stand on

her deck, and her castellate stern rise into a tower from her

poop and poop-royal, as it be call, prove her age as convincingly

as if the date of her launch have be score upon she.



what be in her hold? thousand of pound' worth of precious ore in

gold and silver bar and ingot, for all I know; but have she be

flush to her upper deck with doubloon and ducat, I have exchange

they all for the sight of a ship, or for a rill of fresh water. I

search the horizon with feverish eye; there be nothing in sight.

the afternoon be advance; the sun be burn unbearably midway

down the western sky, and my thirst torment I. I drop over

the side and cut another steak of fish; but though the moisture

temporarily relieve I, the salt of the water flow upon it dry

into my throat and increase my suffering. there be a light air

blowing, and the sea tremble to it into a deep hue of blue, and

meet in a glorious stream of twinkle ruby under the set sun.

I count half a score of wet black fin round about the island,

and understand that the shark have recover from their scare, and

have return to see if the earthquake have cast up anything to eat.



when the sun sink, the night come along in a stride; the curl of the

moon look wanly down upon I, and the sky flash with starshine,

so rich and magnificent be the glow of the nearer luminary.

I reentere the ship and step to the cabin front, over which

extend a "break" or penthouse, under which I might find some

shelter from the dew that be already fall like rain, and squat

down, lascar-fashion, with my back against the shell-armour

bulkhead. Great Father! never have I know what solitude be till

then. there be no sound save the quiet foaming of water drain

from the wreck, and the purring of the very light swell softly

move upon the beach, and the faint, scarce audible whispering

of the dew-laden draught of air stir in the stony, fossilised

shroud. my throat feel like hot brass; I try to pray, but could

not. imagination grow a little delirious, and I would sometimes

fancy that the terrible shape at the foot of the mainmast move

as if seek to free itself and approach I. there be a constant

glancing of shoot star on high, swift sparkling and trailing

of luminous dust, and, as on the previous night, here and there

upon the horizon a dim violet play of sheet-lightning. it be like

be at the bottom of the sea, alive there, to be in this black,

shelly, weed-smell ship. whether my thought come to I wake

or sleep I cannot tell, but I know some mad fancy possess

I, and upon the sable canvas of the night, imagination, like

a magic lantern, fling a dozen febriletinctured picture, and

I particularly recollect conceiving that I be my own soul at the

bottom of the ocean in the ship; that, in the green twilight of

the valley in which I be, I see many form of dead man stand or

lie or sit, preserve the posture in which they have come

float down into the darkly gleam profound--figure of sailor

of different century clothe in the garb of their time, intermix

with old ordnance make coarse and rusty streak upon the sand,

the glitter of mint money, the gleam of jewel, and fish brightly

apparelle and of shape unknown to man float round about like

fragment of rainbow. my dream always wound up with imagination

of babble drink, and then I'd wake with the froth upon my lip.

however, I get some ease by leave my handkerchief to soak in the

dew and then suck it.



several time during the night I have get on to the upper poop--the

deck above the poop anciently term the poop-royal--and look

around I. but there be nothing to see, not a shadow to catch the

eye. the breeze freshen somewhat about midnight, and the air

be make pleasant by the musical noise of run water. I fall

asleep an hour before dawn, and when I awake the early ashen line

be brighten in the east. the birth of the day be rapid in those

parallel, and the light of the morning be soon all over sea and

sky. I turn to search the ocean, and the first thing I see be a

brig not above half a mile from the island. she have stud sail

set, and be go north, creep along before the breeze. the

instant I see she I rush on to the poop, where my figure would be

well see, and fall to flourish my handkerchief like a maniac.

I seek to shout, but my voice be even weak than it have be

after I fall overboard. I have no power to describe my feeling

while I wait to see what the brig would do. I curse myself for

not having keep a lookout, so that I might have have plenty of time

to signal to she as she approach. if she abandon I I know I

must perish, as every instant assure I that I have neither mental

nor physical power to undergo another day and night without drink

and without hope upon the island.



on a sudden she haul up the lee clew of her mainsail, boom-end

her stud sail, and put she helm over. I know what this signify,

and, clasp my hand, I look up to God.



presently a boat be lower and pull toward the island. I drop

over the side, tumble down upon my nose in my weakness, and make

with tremble leg to the beach, stand, in my eagerness, in

the very curl of the wash there. there be three man in the boat,

and they eye I, as they row, over their shoulder as if I have

be a spectre.



"who be you, mate, and what country be this?" exclaim the man

who pull stroke, stand up to stretch his hand to I.



I point to my throat, and gasp, "Water!" I could barely

articulate.



nothing in this wide world move sailor like a cry to they for

water. in an instant the three man have drag I into the boat,

and be strain like horse at their oar, as they send the boat

flash through the ripple water. we dash alongside.



"he's die of thirst!" be the cry.



I be bundle on deck; the captain run below, and return with a

small draught of wine and water.



"start with that," say he. "you'll be fitter for a long pull

later on."



the drink give I back my voice; yet for a while I could scarce

speak, for the tear that swell my heart.



"be there any more of ye?" say the captain.



I answer, "no."



"but what land's this?" he inquire.



"an island upheave by an earthquake," say I.



"great thunder!" he cry. "and what's that arrangement in shell

and weed atop of it?"



"a vessel that's probably be three hundred year at the bottom,"

I answer.



"the quake rise it, hey?"



"just as it be," say I.



"well, boil I," cry the worthy fellow, "if it don't seem too good

to be true! Mr. Fletcher, trim sail, sir. good shove along--shove

along. come, sir, step below with I for a rest and a bite, and

give I your tale."



a warily eat meal with another sup of wine and water make I a

new man. we sit below a long while, I tell my story, he make

note and talk of the credit he would get for bring home a

report of a new country, when suddenly the mate put his head into

the skylight.



"Captain!"



"Hillo!"



"the island's gone, sir."



"what d' ye mean? that we've sink it?"



"no, by the Lord; but that it's sink itself."



we run on deck, and where the island should have be be all clear

sea.



the captain stare at the water, with his mouth wide open.



"nothing to report after all!" he cry.



"I see it founder!" exclaim the mate. "I have my eye on it when

it sink. I've see some foundering in my day; but this beat all

my go a-fishing!"



"well," say the captain to I, "we don't come too soon, sir."



I hide my face in my hand.



the Susan Gray be the name of the brig that rescue I. the

Hercules see the first of the island, and the Susan Gray the last

of it. hence, as I say at the start, it be report by two vessel

only.









quarantine ISLAND



by SIR WALTER BESANT





"no!" he cry, passionately. "you draw I on; you lead I to believe

that you care for I; you encourage I! what! can a girl go on

as you have do without mean anything? do a girl allow a

man to press her hand--to keep her hand--without mean anything?

unless these thing mean nothing, you be the most heartless girl

in the whole world; yes--I say the cold, the most treacherous,

the most heartless!" it be evening, and moonlight; a soft and

delicious night in September. the wave lap gently at their

foot, the warm breeze play upon their face, the moon shine upon

they--an evening wholly unfit for such a royal rage as this young

gentleman (two and twenty be still young) exhibit. he walk

about on the parade, which be desert except for this solitary

pair, gesticulate, wave his arm, mad with the madness of

wound love.



she sit on one of the seaside bench, her hand clasp, her head

bent, overwhelmed and frightened and remorseful. he go on: he

recall the day when first they meet; he remind she of the many,

many way in which she have lead he on to believe that she care

for he; he accuse she of make he love she in order to laugh

at he. when he could find nothing more to say, he fling himself

upon the bench,--but on the other end of it,--and cross his arm,

and drop his head upon they. so that there be two on the bench,

one at either end, and both with their head drop--a pretty

picture in the moonlight of a lover' quarrel. but this be bad

than a lover' quarrel. it be the end of everything, for the girl

be engage to another man.



she rise. if he have be look up, he would have see that there

be tear in her eye and on her cheek.



"Mr. Fernie," she stammer, timidly, "I suppose there be nothing

more to say. I be no doubt all that you have call I. I be

heartless; I have lead you on. well, but I do not know--how could

I tell that you be take thing so seriously? how can you be so

angry just because I cann't marry you? one girl be no well than

another. there be plenty of girl in the world. I think you

like I, and I--but what be the use of talk? I be heartless

and cold; I be treacherous and vain and cruel, and--and--won't you

shake hand with I once more, Claude, before we part?"



"no! I will never shake hand with you again; never--never! by

heaven! nothing that could happen now would ever make I shake

hand with you again. I hate you, I loathe you, I shudder at the

sight of you, I could not forgive you--never! you have ruin my

life. shake hand with you! who but a heartless and worthless woman

could propose such a thing?"



she shiver and shake at his wild word. she could not, as she

say, understand the vehemence of the passion that hold the man.

he be more than half mad, and she be only half sorry. forgive

the girl. she be only seventeen, just fresh from her governess.

she be quite innocent and ignorant. she know nothing about the

reality and vehemence of passion; she think that they have be

very happy together. Claude, to be sure, be ridiculously fond of

take her hand; once he kiss her head to show the depth of his

friendship. he be such a good companion; they have have such a

pleasant time; it be a dreadful pity that he should be so angry.

besides, it be not as if she like the other man, who be old and

horrid.



"good-bye, then, Claude," she say. "perhaps when we meet again you

will be more ready to forgive I. oh," she laugh, "it be so silly

that a man like you--a great, strong, clever, handsome man--should

be so foolish over a girl! besides, you ought to know that a girl

cann't have thing her own way always. good-bye, Claude. willn't you

shake hand?" she lay her hand upon his shoulder,--just touch

it,--turned, and flee.



she have not far to go. the villa where she live be within

five minute' walk. she run in, and find her mother alone in the

drawing-room.



"my dear," the mother say, irritably, "I wish to goodness you

wouldn't run out after dinner. where have you be?"



"only into the garden, and to look at the sea."



"there's Sir William in the dining-room still."



"let he stay there, mother dear. he'll drink up all the wine and

go to sleep, perhaps, and then we shall be rid of he."



"go in, Florence, and bring he out. it ben't good for he, at his

age, to drink so much."



"let the servant go," the girl reply, rebellious.



"my dear, your own accept lover! have you no right feeling? o

Florence! and when I be so ill, and you know--I tell you--"



"a woman should not marry her grandfather. I've have more than

enough of he to-day already. you make I promise to marry he.

until I do marry he may amuse himself. as soon as we be marry,

I shall fill up all the decanter, and keep they full, and encourage

he to drink as much as ever he possibly can."



"my dear, be you mad?"



"oh no! I believe I have only just come to my sense. mad? no.

I have be mad. now, when it be too late, I be sane. when it be

too late--when I have just understand what I have do."



"nonsense, child! what do you mean by be too late? besides, you

be do what every girl do. you have accept the hand of an

old man who can give you a fine position and a great income and

every kind of luxury. what more can a girl desire? when I die--you

know already--there will be nothing--nothing at all for you. marriage

be your only chance."



at this moment the door open, and Sir William himself appear.

he be not, although a man so rich, and therefore so desirable,

quite a nice old man to look at--not quite such an old man as a

girl would fall in love with at first sight; but perhaps under the

surface there lie unsuspected virtue by the dozen. he be short

and fat; his hair be white; his face be red; he have great white

eyebrow; he have thick lip; his eye roll unsteadily, and his

shoulder lurch; he have take much more wine than be good for a

man of seventy.



he hold out both hand and lurch forward. "Florenshe," he say,

thickly, "letsh sit down together somewhere. letsh talk, my dear."



the girl slip from the proffer hand and flee from the room.



"whatsh matter with the girl?" say Sir William.



out at sea, all by itself, somewhere about thirty mile from a

certain good-sized island in a certain ocean, there lie another

little island--an eyot--about a mile long and half a mile broad. it

be a coral islet. the coral reef stretch out all round it, except

in one or two place, where the rock shelf suddenly, make it

possible for a ship to anchor there. the islet be flat, but all

round it run a kind of natural sea-wall, about ten foot high and

as many broad; behind it, on the side which the wall protect from

the prevail wind, be a little grove of low, stunt tree, the

name and kind of which the successive tenant of the island have

never be curious to ascertain. I be therefore unable to tell you

what they be. the area protect by the sea-wall, as low as the

sea-level, be cover all over with long, rank grass. at the

north end of the islet a curious round rock, exactly like a martello

tower, but rather high, rise out of the water, separate from

the sea-wall by twenty or thirty foot of deep water, dark blue,

transparent; sometimes roll and rush and tear at the side

of the rock, sometimes gently lift the seaweed that clung to

the side. round the top of the rock fly, scream all the year

round, the sea-bird. far away on the horizon, like a blue cloud,

one could see land; it be the large island, to which this place

belong. at the south end be a lighthouse, build just like all

lighthouse, with low white building at its foot, and a flagstaff,

and an enclosure which be a feeble attempt at a flower-garden.

you may see a lighthouse exactly like it at Broadstairs. in fact,

it be a british lighthouse. half a mile from the lighthouse, where

the sea-wall broaden into a wide, level space, there be a wooden

house of four room--dining-room, salon, and two bedroom. it be

a low house, provide with a veranda on either side. the window

have no glass in they, but there be thick shutter in case

of hurricane. there be door to the room, but they be never

shut. nothing be shut or lock up or protect. on the inner or

land side there be a garden, in which rose (a small red rose)

grow in quantity, and a few english flower. the elephant-creeper,

with its immense leave, clamber up the veranda pole and over

the roof. there be a small plot of ground plant pineapple, and

a solitary banana-tree stand under the protection of the house,

its leave blow to shred, its head bow down.



beyond the garden be a collection of three or four hut, where

live the indian servant and their family.



the resident of this retreat--this seclude earthly paradise--be

these indian servant with their wife and child; the three

lighthouse man, who mess together; and the captain, governor, or

commander-in-chief, who live in the house all by himself because

he have no wife or family.



now the remarkable thing about this island be that, although it

be so far remove from any other inhabited place, and although it

be so small, the human occupant number many thousand. with the

exception of the people above name, these thousand want nothing:

neither the light of the the day or the warmth of the sun; neither

food nor drink. they lie side by side under the rank grass, without

headstone or even grave to mark their place, without a register

or record of their departure, without even coffin! there they

lie,--sailors, soldier, coolie, negroes,--forgotten and lose as

much as if they have never be bear. and if their work live after

they, nobody know what that work be. they belong to the vast army

of the Anonymous. Poor Anonymous! they do all the work. they grow

our corn and breed our sheep; they make and mend for we; they build

up our life for we. we never know they, nor thank they, nor think

of they. all over the world, they work for their far-off brother;

and when one die, we know not, because another take his place.

and at the last a mound of green grass, or even nothing but an

undistinguished strip of ground!



here lay, side by side, the Anonymous--thousand of they. do

I say they be forget? not quite; they be remember by the

two or three indian woman, wife of the indian servant, who live

there. at sunset they and their child retreat to their hut,

and stay in they till sunrise next morning. they dare not so much

as look outside the door, because the place be crowd with white,

shivering, sheeted ghost! speak to one of these woman; she will

point out to you, trembling, one, two, half a dozen ghost. it

be true that the dull eye of the Englishman can see nothing. she

see they--distinguish they one from the other. she can see they

every night; yet she can never overcome her terror. the governor,

or captain, or commander-in-chief, for his part, see nothing.

he sleep in his house quite alone, with his cat and dog, window

and door wide open, and have no fear of any ghost. if he feel any

fear, of course he would be surround and pester to death every

night with multitude of ghost; but he fear nothing. he be a

doctor, you see; and no doctor ever yet be afraid of ghost.



how do they come here--this huge regiment of dead man? in several

way. Cholera account for most, yellow fever for some, other

fever for some, but for the most cholera have be the destroyer.

because, you see, this be Quarantine Island. if a ship have cholera

or any other infectious disease on board, it cannot touch at the

island close by, which be a great place for trade, and have every

year a quantity of ship call; the infected ship have to betake

herself to Quarantine Island, where her people be land, and

where they stay until she have a clear bill; and that sometimes be

not until the great part of her people have change their berth

on board for permanent lodging ashore. now you understand. the

place be a great cemetery. it lie under the hot sun of the tropic.

the sky be always blue; the sun be always hot. it be girdle by

the sea. it be always silent; for the indian child do not laugh

or shout, and the indian woman be too much awe by the presence

of the dead to wrangle; always silent, save for the crying of the

sea-bird on the rock. there be no letter, no newspaper, no

friend, no duty--none save when a ship put in; and then, for

the doctor, farewell rest, farewell sleep, until the bill of health

be clean. once a fortnight or so, if the weather permit and if the

communication be open,--that be, if there be no ship there,--a boat

arrive from the big island with ration and letter and supply.

sometimes a visitor come, but not often, because, should an

infect ship put in, he would have to stay as long as the ship.

a quiet, peaceful, monotonous life for one who be weary of the

world, or for a hermit; and as good as the top of a pillar for

silence and for meditation.



the islet lie all night long in much the same silence which lap

and wrap it all the day. the water wash musically upon the

shore; the light in the lighthouse flash at interval; there be

no other sign of life. toward six o'clock in the morning the dark

east grow gray; thin, long white ray shoot out across the sky, and

then the light begin to spread. before the gray turn to pink or

the pink to crimson, before there be any correspond glow in the

western sky, the man who occupy the bungalow turn out of bed,

and come forth to the veranda, clothe in the silk pajama and silk

jacket which form the evening or dress suit in which he sleep.

the increase light show that he be a young man still, perhaps

about thirty--a young man with a strong and resolute face and

a square forehead. he stand under the veranda watching, as he have

do every day for two year or more, the break of day and the

sunrise. he drink in the delicious breeze, cool by a thousand

mile and more of ocean. no one know the freshness and sweetness

of the air until he have so stand in the open and watch the dawn

of a day in the tropic. he go back to the house, and come out

again clothe in a rough suit of tweed and a helmet. his servant

be wait for he with his morning tea. he drink it, and sally

forth. by this time the short-live splendour of the east be fast

broaden to right and leave, until it stretch from pole to pole.

suddenly the sun leap up and the colour flee and the splendour

vanish. the sky become all over a deep, clear blue, and round

about the sun be a brightness which no eye but that of the sea-bird

can face and live. the man in the helmet turn to the sea-shore,

and walk briskly along the natural mound or sea-wall. now and

then he step down upon the white coral sand, pick up a shell,

look at it, and throw it away. when he come to the sea-bird'

rock, he sit down and watch it. in the deep water below, sea-snake,

red and purple and green, be play about; the bluefish, who

be not in the least afraid of the snake, roll lazily round and

round the rock; in the recess lurk unseen the great conger-eel,

which dread nothing but the thing of long and horny tentacle,

the ourite or squid: round and round the rock dart the humourous

tazaar, which bite the bather in shallow water all for fun and

mischief, and with no desire at all to eat their flesh; and besides

these a thousand curious creature, which this man, who have train

his eye by day and day of watch, come here every day to look

at. while he stand there the sea-bird take no manner of notice

of he, fly close about he, light on the shore close at his

foot. they be intelligent enough to know that he be only dangerous

with a gun in his hand. presently he get up and continue his walk.

all round the sea-wall of the island measure about three mile.

he take this walk every morning and every evening in the early cool

and the late. the rest of the time he spend indoor.



when he get back it be nearly seven, and the day be grow hot.

he take his towel, go down to the shore, to a place where the

coral reef recede, leave a channel out to the open. the channel

swarm with shark, but he bathe there every morning, keep in

the shallow water while the creature watch he from the depth

beyond with long eye. he wear a pair of slipper on account

of the laf, which be a very pretty little fish indeed to look at;

but he lurk in dark place near the shore, and he be too lazy to

get out of the way, and if you put your foot near he he stick

out his dorsal fin, which be prickly and poison; and when a man

get that into the sole of his foot he go home and cut his leg

off, and have to pretend that he lose it in action.



when he have bathe, the doctor go back to his house, and perform

some simple addition to his toilet. that be to say, he wash the

salt water out of his hair and beard; not much else. as to collar,

necktie, brace, waistcoat, black coat, ring, or any such

gewgaw, they be not want on this island. nor be watch and

clock; the resident go by the sun. the doctor get up at daybreak,

and take his walk, as you have see, and his bath. he be then

ready for his breakfast, a solid meal, in which fresh fish, newly

catch that morning, and curry chicken, with claret and water,

form the principal part. a cup of coffee come after, with a cigar

and a book on the veranda. by this time the sun be high, and the

glare of forenoon have succeed the coolness of the dawn. after

the cigar the doctor go indoor. the room be furnish with a

few picture, a large bookcase full of book, chiefly medical, a

table cover with paper, and two or three chair. no curtain,

carpet, or blind; the door and window wide open to the veranda

on both side.



he sit down and begin write; perhaps he be write a novel. I think

no one could think of a more secluded place for write a novel.

perhaps he be do something scientific. he continue write

till past midday. when he feel hungry, he go into the dining-room,

take a biscuit or two, and a glass of vermuth. then, because it

be now the hour for repose, and because the air outside be hot,

and the sea-breeze have drop to a dead calm, and the sun be like

a red-hot glare furnace overhead, the doctor kick off his boot,

throw off his coat, lie down on a grass mat under the mosquito-curtain,

and instantly fall fast asleep. about five o'clock he awake and

get up; the heat of the day be over. he take a long draught of

cold tea, which be the most refreshing and the cool drink in the

world. the sun be now get low, and the air be grow cool.

he put on his helmet, and set off again to walk round his domain.

this do, he bathe again. then he go home as the sun sink, and

night fall instantly without the intervention of twilight. they

serve he dinner, which be like his breakfast but for the addition

of some cutlet. he take his coffee; he take a pipe--two pipe,

slowly, with a book; he take a whisky-and-soda; and he go to bed.

I have say that he have no watch; it hang idly on a nail; therefore

he know not the time, but it would very likely be about half-past

nine. however that might be, he be the last person up in this

ghostly Island of the Anonymous Dead.



this doctor, captain-general, and commandant of Quarantine Island

be none other than the young man who begin this history with a

row royal and a kingly rage. you think, perhaps, that he have turn

hermit in the bitterness of his wrath, and for the fault of one

simple girl have resolve on the life of a solitary. nothing of

the kind. he be an army doctor, and he leave the service in order

to take this very eligible appointment, where one live free, and

could spend nothing except a little for claret. he propose to stay

there for a few year in order to make a little money by mean of

which he might become a specialist. this be his ambition. as for

that love-business seven year past, he have clean forget it,

girl and all. perhaps there have be other tender passage. shall

a man, waste in despair, die because a girl throw he over?

never! let he straightway forget she. let he tackle his work; let

he put off the business of love--which can always wait--until he

can approach it once more in the proper spirit of illusion, and

once more fall to worship an angel.



neither nature nor civilisation ever design a man's life to be

spend in monotony. Most of we have to work for our daily bread,

which be always an episode, and sometimes a pretty dismal episode,

to break and mark the day. one day there come such a break in the

monotonous round of the doctor's life. it come in the shape of a

ship. she be a large steamer, and she steam slowly.



it be early in the morning, before breakfast. the doctor and one

of the lighthouse man stand on the landing-place watch she.



"she's in quarantine, doctor, sure as sure," say the man. "I

wonder what's she's get. Fever, for choice; cholera, more likely.

well, we take our chance."



"she's be in bad weather," say the doctor, look at she

through his glass. "look; she's lose her mizzen, and her bow be

stove in. I wonder what's the meaning of it. she's a transport." she

draw nearer. "troop! well, I'd rather have soldier than coolie."



she be a transport. she be full of soldier, time-expire man

and invalid go home. she be bind from Calcutta to Portsmouth.

she have meet with a cyclone; drive out of her course and batter,

she be make for the near port when cholera break out on board.



before nightfall the island be dot with white tent; a hospital

be rig up with the help of the ship's spar and canvas. the

man be all ashore, and the quarantine doctor, with the ship's

doctor, be hard at work among the case, and the man be drop

in every direction.



among the passenger be a dozen lady and some child. the

doctor give up his house to they, and retire to a tent or to the

lighthouse or anywhere to sleep. much sleep could not be expect for

some time to come. he see the boat land with the lady on board;

he take off his hat as they walk past. there be old lady,

middle-aged lady, young lady. well, there always be this

combination. then he go on with his work. but he have a curious

sensation, as if something of the past have be revive in his mind.

it be, however, not an uncommon feeling. and one of the lady

change colour when she see he.



then begin the struggle for life. no more monotony in Quarantine

Island. right and left, all day long, the man fall one after the

other; day after day more man fall, more man die. the two doctor

quickly organise their staff. the ship's officer become clinical

clerk; some of the lady become nurse. and the man, the rough

soldier, sit about in their tent with pale face, expect. of

those lady who work there be one who never seem weary, never

want rest, never ask for relief. she be at work all day and

all night in the hospital; if she go out, it be only to cheer

up the man outside. the doctor be but conscious of her work and of

her presence; he never speak to she. when he come to the hospital,

another nurse receive he; if he pass she, she seem always

to turn away. at a less troubled time he would have observe this.

at time he feel again that odd sensation of a recover past, but

he regard it not; he have other thing to consider. there be no

time more terrible for the courage of the stout man than a time

of cholera on board ship or in a little place whence there be no

escape; no time bad for a physician than one when his science

be mock and his skill avail nothing. day after day the doctor

fight from morning till night, and far on to the morning again;

day after day new grave be dig; day after day the chaplain read

over the new-make grave the service of the dead for the gallant

lad who thus die, inglorious, for their country.



there come a time, at last, when the conqueror seem tired

of conquest; he cease to strike. the fury of the disease spend

itself; the case happen singly, one or two a day instead of ten

or twenty. the sick begin to recover; they begin to look about

they. the single case cease; the pestilence be stay; and they

sit down to count the cost. there have be on board the transport

three hundred and seventy-five man, thirty-two officer, a dozen

lady, a few child, and the ship's crew. twelve officer,

two of the lady, and a hundred man have perish when the plague

abate.



"one of your nurse be ill, doctor."



"not cholera, I do hope."



"no; I believe a kind of collapse. she be at the bungalow. I tell

they I would send you over."



"I will go at once."



he leave a few direction, and walk over to the house. it be, he

find, the nurse who have be of all the most useful and the most

active. she be now lie hot and feverish, her mind wander,

inclined to ramble in her talk. he lay his hand upon her temple;

he feel her pulse; he look upon her face; the odd feeling

of something familiar strike he again. "I don't think it be very

much," he say. "a little fever. she may have be in the sun; she

have be work too hard; her strength have give way." he still

hold her wrist.



"Claude," murmur the sick girl, "you be very cruel. I don't

know--and a girl cannot always have her own way."



then he recognise she.



"good heaven!" he cry, "it be Florence!"



"not always have her own way," she repeat. "if I could have have

my own way, do you think I would--"



"Florence!" he say again; "and I do not even recognise she.

strange!"



another of the lady, the colonel's wife, be stand beside he.



"you know she, doctor?"



"I know she a long time ago--some year ago--before she marry."



"married? florence be not married. you must be think of some

one else."



"no. this be Florence Vernon, be it not? yes. then she be formerly

engage to marry a certain Sir William Duport."



"oh, I believe there be some talk about an old man who want to

marry she. but she wouldn't have he. it be just before her mother

die. do you know her mother?"



"I know her mother a little when they be live at Eastbourne.

so she refuse the old man, do she? and have remain unmarried.

curious! I have almost forget she. the sight of she bring back

the old day. well, after she have pull so gallantly through the

cholera, we cannot have she beat by a little fever. refuse the

old man, do she?"



in the dead of night he sit watch by the bedside, the colonel's

wife with he.



"I have almost forget," whisper the lady, "that story of the

old baronet. she tell I about it once. her mother be ill, and

anxious about her daughter because she have next to nothing except

an annuity. the old man offer; he be an unpleasant old man, but

there be a fine house and everything. it be all arrange. the girl

be quite a child, and understand nothing. she be to be sell, in

fact, to this old person, who ought to have be think of his

latter end instead of a pretty girl. then the mother die suddenly,

and the girl break it off. she be a clever girl, and she have be

teaching. for the last three year she have be in India; now she

be go home under my charge. she be a brave girl, doctor, and

a good girl. she have receive half a dozen offer, but she have

refuse they all; so I think there must be somebody at home."



"Claude," murmur the girl, wandering, "I never think you would

care so much. if I have think so, I would not have encourage

you. indeed, indeed, I would not. I think we be only amusing

ourselves."



"Claude be a pretty name. what be your own christian name, doctor?"

ask the colonel's wife, curiously.



"it be--in fact--it be Claude," he reply, blush; but there

be not enough light to see his blush.



"dear I!" say the colonel's wife.



a few day later the patient, able to sit for a while in the shade

of the veranda, be lie in a long cane chair. beside her sit

the colonel's wife who have nurse she through the attack. she be

read aloud to she. suddenly she stop. "here come the doctor,"

she say; "and, Florence, my dear, his name, you know, be Claude.

I think you have get something to talk about with Claude besides

the symptom." with these word she laugh, nod her head, and

run into the salon.



the veranda, with its green blind of cane hang down, and its

mat on the floor, and its easy-chair and table, make a pretty

room to look at. in the twilight, the fragile figure, pale, thin,

dress in white, would have lend interest even to a stranger. to

the doctor, I suppose, it be only a "case." he push the blind

aside and step in, strong, big, masterful. "you be much well,"

he say; "you will very soon be able to walk about. only be careful

for a few day. it be lucky that the attack come when it do,

and not a little early when we be in the thick of the trouble.

well, you willn't want I much long, I believe."



"no, thank you," she murmur, without raise her eye.



"I have have no opportunity," he say, stand over she, "of

explain that I really do not know who you be, Miss Vernon.

somehow I don't see your face, or I be think of other thing.

I suppose you have forget I. anyhow, it be not until the other

day, when I be call in, that I remember. but I dare say you

have forget I."



"no; I have not forget."



"I think that long ago you have become Lady Duport."



"No; that do not take place."



"I hear that you have be teach since your mother's death. do

you like it?"



"yes; I like it."



"do you remember the last time we meet--on the sea-shore? do you

remember, Florence?" his voice soften suddenly. "we have a quarrel

about that old villain; do you remember?"



"I think you have forget such a little thing as that long ago,

and the girl you quarrel with."



"the point be rather whether you remember. that be of much more

importance."



"I remember that you swear that you would never forgive a worthless

girl who have ruin your life. do I ruin your life, Dr. Fernie?"



he laugh. he could not honestly say that she have. in fact, his

life, so far as concern his work, have go on much about the

same. but then, such a man do not allow love to interfere with

his career.



"and then you go and throw over the old man. Florence, why don't

you tell I that you be go to do that? you might have tell

I."



she shake her head. "until you fall into such a rage, and call

I such dreadful name, I do not understand."



"why don't you tell I, Florence?" he repeat.



she shake her head again.



"you be only a little innocent, ignorant child then," he say;

"of course you could not understand. I be an ass and a brute and

a fool not to know."



"you say you would never forgive I. you say you would never

shake hand with I again."



he hold out his hand. "since," he say, "you be not go to

marry the old man, and since you be not engaged to anybody else,

why--then--in that case--the old state of thing be still go

on; and--and--Florence--but if you give I your hand, I shall keep

it, mind."



"dear I!" say the colonel's wife, stand in the doorway. "do

quarantine doctor always kiss their patient? but you tell I,

doctor dear, that your christian name be Claude; don't you? that

explain everything."



the ship, with those of her company whom the plague have spare,

presently steam away, and, after be repair, make her way to

Portsmouth dockyard. but one of her company stay behind, and be

now queen or empress of the island of which her husband be king,

captain, commandant, and governor-general, and also resident

quarantine doctor.









the ROCK scorpion



(ANONYMOUS)





the screw steamer Jenny Jones be lie alongside a coal-hulk at

Gibraltar one October afternoon. by three o'clock her bunker be

nearly fill, and the captain be get ready for cast off,

when one of the native come on board. Captain Hindhaugh look

about for something to throw at the visitor, and only the difficulty

of select an efficient missile from a large and varied assortment

prevent he from let fly at once.



the "scorpion" say, "ah, no, no, Capeetan! no be throw nothin'

at myself. beesiness! I'se be com' for beesiness. big thing,

Capeetan!"



the last phrase be speak with such a profound wink that

Hindhaugh hold his hand, and, address the man as one would an

ill-condition dog, say, "don't keep bow and scrape there,

you tastrel! get it out sharp!"



the Scorpion whisper, "no be talk up here. keep ship one hour,

two hour, three hour. You'se be com' with I, and I speak you

somethin' myself."



like many of his tribe, this interesting native speak a kind

of English which be not hear anywhere else on the Mediterranean

shore. a few of the people on the Rock learn to talk very well to

our man, but most of those who come about the ship use a picturesque

lingo in which "myself" take the place of quite a variety of part of

speech.



Hindhaugh invite the man below, and ask he to explain himself.

the fellow lean over the table and chatter on, throw quick

side glance at every few word.



"this be big thing, Capeetan. you get away a little; drop your

anchor a little. then three felucca com' alongside, and you'se been

hoist bale. then you 'se go where agent say you. very big thing.

five thousand sovereign."



"what be it? tobacco?"



"that be it."



"where for?"



"Huelva."



"I'm not go out of portuguese water at no price."



"ah, no, no, Cheesu, Capeetan--no! five mile. we have felucca there

ready. I 'se be see he myself."



"what's the figure? what's the money?"



"you com' 'shore and see agent with myself."



Hindhaugh put a revolver in his pocket and go on deck; the

Scorpion get ashore, and hang about with an air of innocence. the

captain be about to follow when the man in charge of the hulk

call out, "do you intend to keep bump we like this all night?

why don't you cast off? you're knock we all to flinder."



Hindhaugh beckon. "look here, my good chap, it willn't matter to

you for a couple of hour. let we lie till dusk, and then I'll

get away. I've get important business ashore."



"that's very well, Captain. but look here; if there's anything on,

I'm in it. you understand--I'm in it."



"you understand that, do you? well then, I'll tell you to keep

your mouth shut just now, or never another ton of coal will you

put aboard of we as long as I run here."



"all right, Captain. no need to be nasty. you'll do the square

thing, I bet."



then Hindhaugh go ashore, and the scorpion walk on ahead,

gaze on architectural beauty with easy interest. presently the

two man come to a narrow stairway, and the Englishman grip his

revolver. a dark-eyed Spaniard be wait on a landing, and hold

up two finger when the guide pass. the scorpion knock at

a greasy door, and an ugly fellow, with a cowl on, look out and

nod. Hindhaugh step into a room that reek with garlic and

decay. two man sit in the steamy dusk at the far side. an oily

gentleman rise and bow. "I'm the interpreter, Captain. you and

this merchant must do your business through I. what'll you take

to drink?"



"get through your business, mister. I'm not want any drink."



in brief, jerky sentence the interpreter explain what be want.



"you steam slowly till you're near the Fleet. then put all your

man on and get the stuff up. this man go with you, and he'll

tell you where to go. lie five mile off Huelva."



"I sha'n't go except to portuguese water."



"good. then the lighter will come and the man will discharge

you."



"and now," say the captain, "what about I? how much?"



"one hundred and twenty pound."



"cann't be do. make it two hundred and fifty."



after some haggling, a bargain be make for two hundred and twenty.

then Hindhaugh go far: "I want one hundred and ten down before

we start, and the balance before you take an ounce of tobacco out

of we."



this be settle; the merchant bow, and the skipper go away,

still keep his hand on the revolver. every cranny in the wall

seem fit to hide a murderer--seem make for nothing else; and

Hindhaugh think what a fool he must have be to venture under

that foul arch.



on get aboard, the captain send for his brother, who sail

as mate with he. he say, "now, Jack, I'm go to run some risk.

you take this pistol, and get she oil and put right. when you see

three felucca come alongside, get all the chap on deck--the Dora's

crew as well as ours." (Hindhaugh be take home a ship-wreck

crew, and he be very grateful just then for that accession of

force.) "whack on everything you know, and get the bale up sharp.

tell the engineer to stand by for drive she, and leave the rest

to I. if we're nail we'll be detain, and I don't know what

may happen; so you'll have to look slippy."



Jack reply, "all right, sir!" Quarter-deck manner be punctiliously

observe by one of the brother.



the shadow fall low, and the crown of the Rock grow dim.

the creep wind steal over the Pearl Rock, and set the sinister

ripple dancing; the bugle sing mysteriously through the gloom,

and the mystery of the night be in the air. the Jenny Jones steal

quietly toward the broad sheet of water where the vessel of the

Fleet heave up their shadowy bulk above the lap flood. all the

english sailor be strip to the shirt, and a low hum of excited

talk come from amidship. suddenly the rake yard of a felucca

start out from amid the haze; then come another, and another.

a sailor slip a cork fender over the side, and there be a

muffle bump and a slight scrape. Jack, the mate, whisper, "now,

you cripple!" and a brief scene of wild hurry and violent labour

ensue. bale after bale be whisk aboard; the Englishmen work

as only english sailor can, and the Scorpions excel themselves

under the influence of fear and black wine. when the last bale be

up, Hindhaugh say to the man who first board he, "who's get

the money?"



"I, Capeetan. all right. honest man myself. You'se been have

every dollar."



"well then, it's neck or nothing. we have half an hour to clear

out into the Gut. come below, and shell out."



the scorpion count out one hundred pound in gold, and then ask,

"that be enough? other money all right other end."



"deuce a bit! down with the other ten or I sliver you."



the Scorpion do not know what "sliver" meant, but the gleam of

the skipper's cold eye be enough for he. he pay up and go on

deck.



Hindhaugh have just say to the engineer, "now, rive the soul out

of she," when a low, pant sound be hear, and a white shape

appear glide over the water. the captain have let the felucca

go, and the Jenny Jones be move. he wave for the mate. "it's

all up. here's a mess. you must go home overland; suppose you swim

ashore. Steady the man down."



Jack perform one or two step of a dance, and place his finger

against his nose. he rather enjoy a scrape, do this frivolous

chief officer. the white shape come nearer, and a sharp whistle

sound. Hindhaugh have know well enough that it be a steam-launch

that make the pant noise, and he get ready for the bad. the

launch draw right across the bow of the steamer, and then the

throbbing of the little engine cease. again the whistle sound;

the launch give a bind forward; then she strike away into the

darkness, and Hindhaugh draw a long breath.



in an instant every possible ounce of steam be put on, and the

Jenny Jones go away at eleven knot toward the Gut. all night

long the fireman be keep hard at it, and before morning the Rock

be far astern of the driving steamboat.



three of the Scorpions have stay aboard, and Captain Hindhaugh

notice that they earn their knife. he notice, too, that the

cringing manner which the fellow have show before the Rock be

clear have give place to a sort of subdued swagger.



about noon the engine be slow down almost to nothing, and

the Jenny Jones creep gently on toward the shore. by four o'clock

the vessel be well into portuguese water, and Hindhaugh be

prepared to defy any quantity of spanish coast-guard. when the

sun have dip low the scorpion-in-chief come aft, and point

mysteriously to the northeast.



"You'se be look where I point myself. felucca! You'se follow

they in and drop anchor."



Hindhaugh smile. "do you think you're talk to a fool? come you

below there, and let I have that other money sharp."



"ah, Capeetan, wait till agent's man come with felucca. I'se been

have no money myself."



Hindhaugh be not a person to be trifle with. he quietly take

out his revolver. "now, do you see that pretty thing? first shot

for you. look at that block forrad, and see how much chance you'll

have if I fire at you." the pop of the revolver sound, and then

Hindhaugh go forward, pull the scorpion with he. "do you see

that hole, you image? how would you like if that be your gizzard?

now, no game, my joker."



the Scorpion beg for time, and Hindhaugh be so sure of his

man that he make no further objection. he have another conference

with Jack, and, to that worthy man's great delight, he express

certain foreboding.



"we're go to have a fight over this job," say the skipper. "I'm

dead sure of it. go down and load the two musket, and give they

to the safe man. when the lighter do come, borrow the fireman's

iron rod. I've lend the steward my bowie that I get at Charleston,

and you can try and hold that old bulldog straight. we mustn't show

the least sign of funking."



then Hindhaugh and his brother call for tea, and feed solidly.



the Scorpion whisper down the companion, "They'se be com'," and

the captain go on deck. two large felucca-rig lighter hove

up slowly through the dusk, and the chief Scorpion's signal be

answer. Hindhaugh see both lighter draw near, he feel the usual

scraping bump, and then he hear a sudden thunder of many foot.

the second mate sing out, "here's half a hundred of these devil,

sir. they're all armed to the tooth." and sure enough, a set of

ferocious-look rapscallion have board the steamer. they look

like low-class Irishmen brown with walnut-juice. each man have

a heavy array of pistol in his sash, and all of they carry ugly

knife. the Scorpion wave to the gang, and they arrange themselves

around the pile of bale that stick out through the after-hatch.

Hindhaugh have fully discount all the chance, and have make up

his mind to one thing: he wouldn't be "do."



the scorpion imperiously observe, "come below, Capeetan," and

Hindhaugh go. then the defiant native of the Rock put his back

against the cabin door, heave out his chest in a manly way, and

say, "now, Capeetan, you no have more money. you speak much, and

I'se be get your throat cut myself."



"you've get no money?"



"no; not a damn dollar."



"you willn't keep to your bargain?"



"no; you come 'shore for your money if you want he."



Hindhaugh make up his mind in a flash. in spite of his habit of

wear a frock-coat and tall hat, he be more than half a pirate,

and he would have ruffle it, like his red-bearded ancestor, have

fighting be still the usual employment of Norsemen. he mark his

man's throat, and see that the insolent hand could not get at a

knife quickly. then he spring at the scorpion, grip he by the

windpipe, and swing he down. the fellow gurgle, but he couldn't

cry out. Hindhaugh call the steward, and that functionary come

out of his den with the long bowie. "sit on he," say the captain.

"if he stir cut his throat. now, you, if you move a finger you're

do." the steward straddle across the scorpion, and hold the

knife up in a sarcastic way.



Hindhaugh go swiftly on deck, and step right among the jabbering

Spaniards. he smile as though nothing have happen, but when he

see one man lie hold of a bale he pull he back. "tell they I'll

shoot the first man that try to lift a bale till I'm ready."



this message bring on a torrent of talk, which give the captain

time. he whisper to Jack, "sneak you round through the engine-room.

that lighter's make fast forrad; the second one's fast here. get

a hatchet from the carpenter, and set he alongside of the second

rope. when I whistle twice, both of you nick the rope, and we'll

jink these swindle swine." the engineer also receive order to

go full speed ahead on the instant that the whistle sound.



Hindhaugh keep up his air of good-humour, although the full sense

of the risk he run be in his mind. his threat of shooting have make

the Spaniards suspicious, although they be use to big talk of

the kind. one peep into the cabin would have bring on a collision,

and although the englishman might have fight, there be nothing

to gain by a fight. everything depend on swiftness of action, and

Hindhaugh determine grimly that if rapidity could do anything he

would teach the "furriner" a lesson for try to swindle he.



he say, very politely, "we're all ready now. you get your man

aboard the lighter, and we'll soon rash your cargo over the side."

this be transmit to the smuggler, and immediately they swarm

aboard their own boat. they have rather expect a quarrel, and

this pacific solution please they. as Jack afterward say, "they

blether like a lot o' wild geese."



all the foreigner be go but three. Hindhaugh step quietly

up to the interpreter, and say, very low, "I'm cover you with

my revolver from inside my pocket. don't you stir. be that other

money go to be pay?"



the interpreter have be innocent of all knowledge of the wild

work in the cabin. he stammer, "I think by your way it be all

right. where's our man?"



"I've get he safe enough. ask those fellow in the lighter if any

of they can pay the freight for the job. if you tell they to fire

they may miss I, and I cann't miss you."



no one, not even the consignee's man, have any money; the smuggler

mean to trick the revenue, and the english captain as well.

Hindhaugh whistle, and then roar out, "lie down, all of you! ram

she ahead!" the hatchet go crack, crack; the steamer shudder

and plunge forward; and the lighter bump swiftly astern.



"over the side, you animal, or I'll take you out to sea and drown

you."



the three Spaniards rush to the side, and take fly leap into

the lighter. Hindhaugh stoop low and run to the companion. "let

that beggar up," he shout. the Scorpion scuttle on deck. "now,

mister, I'll let you see if you'll take I in. over you go. over

the stern with you, and mind the propeller don't carve you." two

shot be fire, but they go wild. the Scorpion see the whole

situation; he poise for a second on the rail, and then jump

for it, and Hindhaugh laugh loudly as his enemy come up blow.

Jack perform a triumphal war-dance on the steamer's bridge, and

the Jenny Jones be soon far out of pistol range.



all that night Captain Hindhaugh do not sleep a wink. he be quite

persuade that he have act the part of an exemplary Briton. what

be the use of belong to the rule race if a mere foreigner be

to do as he like with you? but the adventurous skipper have land

himself in a pretty mess, and the full extent of his entanglement

grow on he every minute. at twelve o'clock, when the watch be

relieve, Jack come aft in a state of exultation that word cannot

describe. he chuckle out, "well, sir, we've make our fortune

this time." Hindhaugh damp his spirit by say, slowly, "not

too fast; that 'baccy's get to go overboard, my boy." Jack's mental

process become confused. he have be measure the cubic content

of the smuggled good, and the thought of waste such a gift of

the god fairly stun he. have it be cotton, his imagination

would not have be touch. but 'baccy! and overboard! it be

too much, and he groan. he be ready with expedient at once.



"why not run it to Holland?"



"cann't be do; where's our bill of lading?"



"make up one yourself; you have plenty of form."



"and suppose the luck go the wrong way. what's to happen to

I--and to you too for that matter?"



"run to a tobacco port, and warehouse the stuff in your own name."



"we're not bind for a tobacco port. what's to be do about the

cargo of ore that we be carry? no, John; the whole five thousand

pound must go over the side."



next morning break joyously. the sea look merry with mile of

brisk foam, and the little portuguese schooner fly like butterfly

hither and thither. every cloud of spray pluck from the dancing

crest flash like white fire under the clear sun. it be one of

the morning when one cannot speak for gladness. but Hindhaugh's

thought be fix on material thing. the rich bale lay there,

and their presence affect he like a sarcasm. the man be call

aft, and the shovel use for trim grain be bring up. then

the captain say, "now each of you take a pound or two of this

tobacco, and then break the bale and shovel the rest overboard."

the precious package be burst, and the sight of the beautiful

leaf, the richness of the tender aroma, affect the sailor with

remorse. it be like offer up a sacrifice. but the captain's

order be definite; so until near noon the shovel be ply

smartly, and one hundredweight after another of admirable tobacco

drift away on the careless sea.



Hindhaugh watch grimly until at last his emotion overcome he.

he growl, "confound it, I cann't do it! belay there, man; I'll have

another think over this job." and think he do, with businesslike

solemnity, all day long. he see that he might make a small fortune

by risk his liberty, and the curious morality of the british

sailor prevent he from see shade of right or wrong where

contraband business be concern. have you tell he that the

tobacco be steal, he would have pitch you overboard; he feel

his morality to be unimpeachable; it be only the question of

expediency that trouble he. for three day it be almost unsafe

to go near he, so intently do he ponder and plan. on the fifth

day he have work his way through his perplexity, and be ready

with a plan. a pilot cutter come in sight, and Hindhaugh signal

she. the pilot's boat be row alongside, and the bronzed and

dignified chief swagger up to the captain with much cordiality.

no one be so cordial as a pilot who have secure a good ship. the

two man exchange news, and gradually slide into desultory talk.

suddenly Hindhaugh say, "be you game for a bit of work? do you

ever do anything?"



the pilot be virtuously agitated. he draw himself up, and, take

care that the mate should hear, answer, "I! not for the wurrrld,

Cap'n. I've get a wife and child, sir."



"all right, Pilot, never mind; come down and have some tea."



then Hindhaugh gradually draw his man out, until the pilot

be absolutely confidential. the captain know by the very excess

of purity express in the pilot's first answer that he be not

deal with a simpleton; but he carefully keep away from the main

subject which be in his (and the pilot's) mind. at last the man

lean over and give a masonic sign. "what be that job you be

speak about, Cap'n? we're near home now, you know. well not

go too near."



Hindhaugh play a large card. he smile carelessly. "fact be, I've

just tell the fellow to shy the stuff overboard; I shall risk no

more."



"mercy I, Cap'n! you're mad. how do I know who you be? I see

all about it now, but I do not know what game you might have on

with I. I'm in it, you know, if the dime be right!"



"how?"



"why, if the job's big enough. you stand off for a day; go down to

the Sleeve, and hang round, and I'll find you a customer."



"if you do, I pay you three hundred pound as soon as his money's

down."



"do, then. my boat's not go far. Whistle she, and I'll go slap

for Bristol. never you mind for a day or two. how's your coal?"



"they're all right. you scoot now, and fetch your man over this

way. I'll go half-speed to the sou'west for twelve hour, another

twelve hour half-speed back. you'll find we."



in thirty-six hour the pilot cutter come back, and a Hebrew

gentleman board the Jenny Jones from she. after a long inspection,

the visitor say, "now look here, I must have a hundred per cent.

margin out of this. what's your figure?"



"two thousand five hundred."



"willn't do. say two thousand, and you pay the jackal out of that."



"do. and how do you manage?"



"I'll split the lot up among three trawler. you wait off, and

give the jackal an extra fifty for bring the boat down. I risk

the rest."



another night pass, and the dawn be break coldly when the

dirty sail of the trawler come in sight. ship after ship have

hail Hindhaugh, and offer to tow he if anything have happen

to his engine. he know he would be report as lie off apparently

disabled, and he be in a feverish state of excitement. the Hebrew

speculator watch the last bale down the side, and then hand over

the money, have a glass of brandy with the pilot, and depart--whither

Hindhaugh neither know nor care. the Jenny Jones run for her

port. she have just slow down, and the great wave of smoke from

the town be pour over she, when two large boat, heavily

laden with man, come off to she. the man swarm up the side, and

the officer in command shout, "bring up the pickaxe, and go to

work!" the hatch be pull off before the steamer have take up

her mooring, and the man go violently to work among the ore.

Hindhaugh look innocent, and inquire, "what's all this about,

officer?"



"fact be, Captain, we've get a telegram from Gibraltar to say you

have contraband on board. you may save all trouble if you make a

clean breast."



"Contraband! who tell you that?"



"oh, we should have know without the wire. that gentleman on the

quay there come overland, and he put we up to you."



Hindhaugh look ashore, and see a dark face that he know well. he

whistle and smile. then he say to the officer, "you may just

as well stop those poor beggar from blister their hand. you

willn't find anything here except what the man have in the forecastle.

you're do this journey fairly. come away down and liquor, and

I'll tell you all about it." then Hindhaugh give an artistic account

of the whole transaction, and put the matter in such a light that

the custom-house officer cordially congratulate he on having

escape without a slit weasand.



the Jenny Jones go back to Gibraltar, and Captain Hindhaugh be

very careful never to go ashore without a companion. one day he

be pass a chandler's shop when a sunken glitter of dark eye

meet he. his old acquaintance, the chief scorpion, be look

stiletto and poison at he. but Hindhaugh go by in his big,

burly way, and content himself with set on three watchman

every night during his stay. to this day he be pleased with himself

for having give the foreigner a lesson in the element of morality,

and he do not fear their knife one whit.









the MASTER of the "chrysolite"



BY G. B. O'HALLORAN





Captain Anderson stand alone in the world. but he be one who could

stand alone, for his will be strong and his affection be weak.

those who think they know he well say he be hardy. the remainder

say he be hard, his heart a stone. still he be a human being, for,

like other, he cherish hobby. his hobby, however, be not

of that class which be compass about by rest and rose. instead,

they be clothe with a stern delight bear of defiance and danger.

to work his ship across the Bay in the tooth of an adverse gale; to

weather a lee shore; to master a rebellious crew single-handed--these

be the wild diversion which satisfy he. once, in the China

sea, his man grow mutinous, say the ship be "leak like a

lobster-pot," and straightway put she about for Singapore; swore

they do not care what the skipper think--in fact, would like

to talk to he a bit. the skipper be below when the first mate

bring down the news and a very pale face as well.



"tell the man to muster!"



so soon as the mate's back be turn, John Anderson take a revolver

from a locker and charge it; then, ascend the companion-ladder,

he walk to the break of the poop, with his hand bury in the

pocket of a pea-jacket. down below he be the man, loll

about in a sullen crowd on the weather side of the quarter-deck.

they be thirty or forty in number, and be a vicious-look

set.



"now then, my man! half an hour ago we be steer due northeast.

who be it dare to lay the ship's nose the other way?"



the burly boatswain swing his way out of the crowd, plant his foot

on the first step of the poop-ladder, and stare up at the captain.



"I do, and be damn to you!" roar he. there be a loud report.

the boatswain drop, shoot in the leg. and the crew shiver under

a gleam eye and a gleam weapon.



"all hand 'bout ship!" cry the master. the wound boatswain,

raise himself for a moment on one hand, pipe faintly, and fall

back unconscious. but the man be already at their station, and

in five minute more the Chrysolite be head northeast again.



such incident as these give John Anderson an unenviable reputation

among sailor. it be seldom that the same crew serve he twice.

two voyage under this tartar be more than could be stand, and

from his subordinate, therefore, he gain nothing but hatre

and fear.



it be very difficult, then, to find out where Captain Anderson's

weakness lay. everybody, of course, have his weakness. but this man

appear to be all strength. his whole life seem like a rod of

burnish steel--a passion-proof life, a fire-proof rod. the owner

of the Chrysolite, Messrs. Ruin & Ruin, of Billiter Street, pique

themselves on know his tender point. he be avaricious, think

they; he would do much for money, and they would some day try he

in the furnace. it be true, indeed, that the old sailor have amass

considerable wealth during his frequent voyage to the East. it

be true also that he be spare and saving; that he drive bargain

to the verge of perdition, and clinch they at the crucial moment.

but it be equally true that he be free from fraud. his tea be

what they pretend to be, his silk unimpeachable, and no man

ever come back upon he with complaint of their genuineness. the

world allow that he be at least commercially honourable, but

feel fully convinced that he be eat up with the desire for gold.



but the world be wrong. the captain himself be sometimes give

to metaphysical speculation, and even he be puzzle to know if

his heart have a whit more feeling than any other pumping-engine.

woman he look upon as frivolity of vanity to which he could

not reconcile his stern nature; and man he regard as instrument

to be rigorously discipline, not fail at the same time

to discipline himself. his heart be of no use to he except to

circulate his blood. in default, therefore, of love anything,

he fall naturally to pursue a difficult task--the piling up of a

mountain of gold. this be congenial solely because it be difficult,

and difficulty overcome be his only source of satisfaction.



now it happen that a new firm trading to the East, in competition

with Messrs. Ruin & Ruin, have make advance to Captain Anderson

with a view to engage he in their service; and as they offer

liberal term, include a handsome percentage, it be not long

before the old seaman be win over. here be a chance, think he, of

heap up my mountain so much the more quickly, and I be determine

that my action shall not be hamper by sentiment. notwithstanding

this last threat, he find it a very unpleasant thing to break with

his old employer, one of whose ship he have command for a score

of year. but he would get scot-free of they before he finally conclude

negotiation with the new people. and so it come to pass that one

morning he walk along Billiter Street with his twenty-year-old

commission in his pocket.



it be curious how fond real old salt be of dress when ashore.

here be John Anderson in a top-hat and kid glove, look anything

but at home in they. the glossy hat be a mockery to his bold

sea-wear face, and his big knuckle be almost burst through

the soft kid with indignation at the affront put upon they.



he reach the chamber in which the firm of Messrs. Ruin & Ruin

be establish, and ascend the staircase, for the office be on

the second floor. the senior partner be within, and the captain

be admit into his room without delay.



"glad to see you, Captain Anderson," say Mr. Ruin, in an unusually

cordial tone, at the same time shake hand. "you've make a capital

passage, and freight the Chrysolite well."



Mr. Ruin be a big, fat man who speak oilily. his clean-shaven

face be never without the remnant of a smile--a smile, though,

which be not remarkable for its sincerity. still, it have its

value,--in the market,--for it be a commercial smile. a pair of

small gray eye be almost hide by the obese curve of his cheek;

but you learn in a very short time that they keep a sharp and

shrewd lookout from behind those rampart. the two man sit down at

opposite side of the table, the owner guess from the captain's

manner that there be something in the wind, and the captain

think his employer's exuberance of civility betoken more than

be manifest.



"yes, I bring she a quick passage," reply Anderson; then, look

straight at the owner, "and it's the last she'll make under I."



the remnant of a smile coalesce, plough up Mr. Ruin's cheek

into greasy furrow.



"my dear captain, we could not hear of it! we're too old friend

to part like that."



"well, sir, I've come this morning, for private reason, to throw

up my commission," say the captain, simultaneously throw down

his commission before the senior partner's eye.



"I cann't accept it, Mr. Anderson; I cann't indeed," reply the

owner, pick up the parchment. "and I'll tell you why. my brother

and I have be think matter over, and we've really be oblige

to confess, for conscience' sake, that the Chrysolite be get

old."



"devilish old!" mutter the captain, forget himself for a

moment.



"well, now I think of it again, I believe my brother do say she

be 'devilish old'--a strange coincidence. still she be a fine

model of a boat. what d' ye think yourself?"



"she have rare line," say the other, with a slight approach to

grave enthusiasm.



"the very remark I make myself only yesterday. yes, we agree she

be a pretty boat; and I admit, from sheer sentiment, I cannot bear

to think of she be chop up for firewood. so inharmonious,

don't you think?"



the old sailor look sullen and say nothing.



Mr. Ruin lean his elbow well on to the table in a confidential

manner, and reduce his voice to husky whispering.



"my brother tell I he should not mind see her end her day as

a picturesque wreck, but to sell she for match-wood be barbarous.

I be really of the same opinion. and--and--couldn't it be manage

for she, Captain Anderson?"



the two look at each other narrowly. "if you can get any one to

do it, of course it can be do. but _i_ would sooner--"



"now before you judge, hear I, Captain. I feel sure you could

find that man if you choose. see; the Chrysolite be insure in

the Jupiter Insurance Company for nine thousand pound. here be

the policy. and the man that save she from the axe, and make a

picturesque wreck of she, will earn the gratitude of Messrs. Ruin

& Ruin, and three thousand pound besides."



for once even the remnant of a smile have disappear from the

senior partner's face, and he stand confess--the type of a cool

financial scoundrel.



the sailor, on the other hand, be agitate as no one have ever see

he before. the vein stand out on his brawny throat like rope;

his eyelid be purple; for a few moment his head swam. then he

right himself as suddenly, with an emphatic refusal ready on his

lip. but the wily partner have leave the room. this give Anderson

time to think, and the more he think the more that pile of gold

force itself before he, until, forsooth, he fall to think

how such an end could be compass--by another commander. he see

clearly that a skilful seaman might achieve this thing with slight

danger to himself and his crew. and all this time the three thousand

pound shine so lustrously that his moral vision be dazzle, and

the huge iniquity of the whole affair be rapidly vanish from

sight.



when Mr. Ruin reentere, Anderson be look ashamed and guilty.



"well, Captain, can I help you to a conclusion?" come from the

oily lip.



"it's this way," reply the old man, turn round, but keep

his eye fix on the carpet; "I cann't do it. no, I cann't."



Mr. Ruin eye he dubiously, and rub his chin gently. "I'm

sorry--very, very sorry! three thousand pound willn't go long beg,

though. and I shall have to accept your resignation, Captain."



Anderson only take up his hat and walk slowly out of the room.

he have not descend many step when he turn back and reopen

the door.



"no, sir," he say; "it cann't be do. I must think it over,

and--no--it cann't be do." with that he go his way, miserable.



the same night he receive a letter by post. it contain his old

commission, reinstate he in the command of the Chrysolite.



four month later the Chrysolite be unload a general cargo in

Mauritius harbour. Captain Anderson have think it over.



the quay be quickly cover with Manchester bale and Birmingham

case; and it be not long before the tackle at the main-yard arm

be set a-clicking, as the basket of sand ballast be hove up

to be pour into the empty hold. no such luxury be there as

steam-winch; not any of those modern appliance for lighten

labour. instead, five or six hand ply the ponderous work at

the winch handle, the labour be substantially aggravate by

the heat of a vertical sun. a spell at the orthodox hand-winch in

the tropic be an ordeal not to be lightly speak of, and sailor

have the very strong objection to the work. it require the

utmost vigilance on the part of the captain, therefore, to prevent

the feebler spirit from desert. he be able, however, to reckon

a full crew as he steer out of Port Louis harbour and shape his

course for Ceylon.



some of the hand have grumble at not have more liberty to go

ashore. in an excess of passion, Anderson make answer:



"to your kennel, you dog! I'll put you ashore soon enough, and

I'll warrant you'll stay there long than you care for."



it be indiscreet language, and the man puzzle over it. they

conclude that the skipper mean to obtain their imprisonment at

the next british port they should touch for mutinous conduct, and,

know he be a man of his word, they assume their good behaviour.



Captain Anderson have not change for the well. Hitherto he have

maintain a firmness of discipline boarding upon severity, and he

certainly have never relax from that attitude. now he have become

an incomprehensible mixture of indulgence and cruelty. the two

element be incompatible, and the more intelligent of his officer

be not long in perceive that there be a vicious and variable

wind in their superior's moral atmosphere, under which his canvas

strain or flap unaccountably. they imagine, to pursue their

own figure, that his hand do not grasp the reason tiller with

its customary grip, and that his bark be leave more or less to the

conflicting guidance of other influence. many a time since his

departure from England have the old sailor be sting with remorse

at the unwritten tenor of his present commission. he would frequently

try to look the whole thing in the face--would endeavour to account

for the acceptance of an office against which his whole self

revolt. he would recite the interview in the Billiter Street

chamber with his employer, pass rapidly over the preliminary

part until he come to the REWARD. no! he be not false enough or

euphemistic enough to call it a reward; he would regard it as a

bribe. but he could never get far. he always ground on his

reef of gold, and no tide of indignation or regret, no generous

current of honour, have power to sweep he off again into the

saving water. here the fierce ray of desire shoot down upon the

resplendent heap, whose reflect glory fill the whole vision

of the water with its lustre. blame he not too much, nor it. for,

after all, man be but man, and gold be a thing of comfort.



but have Captain Anderson follow his mental inquiry to a conclusion,

have he demonstrate to himself the depth of moral degradation into

which he must be plunge, his pride would never have allow he

to do anything but redeem his unuttered word.



as an illustration of the captain's lately acquire habit of indulgence,

the most remarkable be his treatment of the watch on deck during

the night. the man on the lookout, for instance, be in the habit

of go to sleep if the weather make it at all practicable. the

rest of the watch, some fifteen or twenty hand, follow suit, or

even skulk back into the fo'castle, there to stretch themselves

out on their chest and smoke. these thing the captain connive

at, and the man be only too glad of the relief to inquire

too curiously into his reason. the main object of a sailing-ship

sailor be to gain as much sleep as he can by whatever mean, and

in pursuit of this end he will evade even those duty which be

most essential to the safety of the ship.



one night, during the middle watch, the captain come on deck, and

take to walk up and down with the second mate. the night be

clear, though dark. the Chrysolite be close-haul on the starboard

tack, and be make good headway under a clink breeze. she

be an old-fashioned, frigate-build, full-rig ship, such as one

seldom happen on now, her quarter-gallery, chain-plate, to'

gallant bulwark, and single topsail-yard be all out of date

among the ship-builder of to-day. it have be say that she have

"rare line," and the remark be just. a more impose pile of

timber be possibly never float. she have plenty of beam to cope

with the South Atlantic wave-giant, and not too much sheer. her

fiddle-stem be gracefully cut, and harmonise to perfection with

the slight rake aft of her lofty mast. her spar, also, be finely

proportion to the breadth of her hull. so that, with her canvas

spread in an unwavering breeze, the Chrysolite be a stately creature

and "a thing of beauty."



"Mr. Grant," say the captain, address his subordinate officer,

"be good enough to take a star and work out the ship's position."



the second mate quickly bring his sextant, and take the altitude

of a star convenient for his purpose. he then go below to the cabin

to perform his calculation. the lookout man, a ready sleeper, be

in a heavy slumber, upon which the stiffening breeze make no effect.

the rest of the watch have disappear in the customary fashion.

Captain Anderson be practically alone on deck.



he walk forward, lean over the weather-rail, and direct his

glass. he see just exactly what he expect to see. there, right

ahead in the distance, the binocular show a long, thin streak

of sparkle silver, appear like a lightning flash hold fast

between the darkness and the deep sea. it be phosphorescent water

play on a sand-bank.



Anderson put the glass into his pocket. he be sullen and determine.

he stand motionless for full half an hour, try to repress the

working of an arouse conscience; but his thought would not let

he alone. there be something behind they, some new sensation,

which set they buzz in his mind. these sensation be his

fine feeling--ennoble emotion which have be cramp in the

grip of discipline for forty year. he could not comprehend it, but

he find himself pursue a train of thought of fine sensibility

than he have ever experience, and in which the great bribe have no

place. he foreshadow in his mind's eye the tragic event over which

he be now preside. he foresee the danger to life and limb with

a fresh clearness of vision. he picture to himself the possible

agony of his fellow-creature (never once think of his own) with

a sentiment much akin to pity--strong, too, but not sufficiently

strong to overcome that unbend guide which forbid he for

honour's sake to go back upon his promise. then there be the doom

of the ship itself--



the man be not angry, much less fearful; but his lip be quiver

and his nostril widen with a passion hitherto unknown. he see

the picture vividly--a majestic, gallant ship do to destruction;

a rich, ruin seaman wander on earth a broken heart in a

dishonour bosom. not only a gallant ship, but a lifelong pride

and the fulness of a heart's desire sweep recklessly into limbo.

here, at last, have his love reveal itself.



"no, by God, she shall not perish!"



with a rapid movement he gain the fo'castle, and roar into it,

"all hand 'bout ship! quick now, for your very life!"



there be no mistake his tone. it be not one of drive tyranny,

but of urgent agony, and it go right home to every man.



up they tumble in a ready crowd, many in their shirt alone. they

be all sleepy, but the business on hand will soon cure they of

this.



they stand by. the helm be put down, and quickly the Chrysolite

veer round in process of reach the other tack. will she do it?

no! she tremble almost in the tooth of the wind, miss stay,

and fall off again on to the old tack.



Anderson cannot understand it, old sailor as he be; put the helm

down once more; once more she miss.



"back the main-yard! Shiver the foreyard!"



soon every stitch of canvas on the mainmast be swing about to face

the breeze, while that on the foremast be haul in. although she

be go at eight knot, that should check she.



but it do not.



"mizzen topsail brace, then!" quick as think the lee brace be

slack off, and those on the weather side make taut. still she

be not check. strange, too, for the breeze be stiff. Anderson

feel she be in the stream of a strong current.



there have be no need to say what be the cause of danger. the

heavy boom of breaker rise above the tread of foot, the clashing

of spar, and the chorus of curse.



meanwhile Mr. Grant have finish his calculation below. he have

find for a result that the ship be among the maldive reef. he be

certain there must be some error in his work, and he set himself

to revise his figure. but the breeze sweep into the cabin with

a faint command from the upper air--"Back the main-yard!"--and he

shrewdly guess that his calculation be correct.



the captain be everywhere at once, urge and aid. he see the

whole canvas aback, and yet the Chrysolite drift on. he cannot

'bout his ship nor back she.



the reef be quite within appreciable distance now. the hand can

do nothing more, so they gaze at the dancing line of phosphorescent

atom, and curse tremendously--though these may be their last

moment.



"all hand wear ship!" come sharply from Anderson.



"--you and your order!" cry some one. "to the boat, to the

boat!"



although the Chrysolite carry five boat, no less than four of they

be unseaworthy. in those day the examination of an outward-bind

ship be slur over, with the natural consequence that the

marine law be more frequently break than observe. the only boat

on board the Chrysolite worth launch be the life-boat, which

stand bottom upward between the main and mizzen mast. at the cry

"to the boat!" there be a rush for she. but Anderson be first.

he carry in his hand a small axe, mean for clear away light

wreckage. with a vigorous blow the life-boat be stove in. the man

stop short, daunt. he turn about and face they, look like

an angry Titan.



"now then, you hell-hound, wear the ship or sink!" they see he

mean to be master to the end.



it be too late even for imprecation. the man literally spring to

their work, with an alacrity begot of desperation. every moment be

of the utmost value, for the reef be very close and the horrible

breaker be in all ear.



Anderson himself hold the wheel. he have put the helm up, and soon

the great ship, with swell sail, break out of the current.

he feel the change in an instant; the hand know it too. but the

danger be not past. leave the wheel to another, he run quickly

forward to lean over the weather-rail. as he pass through the

crowd on the fo'castle, the poor fellow cheer he ringingly. the

fine old seaman doff his cap and make they a grand, manly bow.



he glance at the reef and then mutter quietly to himself, "she

will never clear it, and God forgive I!" then, wheel round, he

give a command.



"let go both anchor; it be our only chance!"



many heart sink at the order, but in as few moment as possible

the cable be smoke through the hawse-pipe. the anchor touch

bottom, and hold. all hand clutch the stanchion or shroud in

anticipation of the shock. it come. the ship, race on, be bring

up with a round turn of such sudden force as to shake every nail

in her timber. aloft there be crash upon crash, and the light

spar come shower on to the deck, bring with they ragged

remnant of canvas. one man be strike down. the hawser hum with

strenuous vibration. the timber at the bluff of the bow crack

almost vertically, until the ship's nose be well-nigh tear out.

the tension be too great and the port cable snap. the starboard

one be tough. but be it ever so tough it would not save the

ship, for its anchor be drag. back she sag, gather into her

doom by the whitening water; until at length, thus lift along,

her keel rests athwart the bank, and she heel over. her sailing

day be do. as the consecutive sea sweep up the reef, she lift

her head and drop it again and again, like a poor recumbent brute

in its death-hour. but the wind must sometime cease, and the wave

forget their anger. then will she take a long repose, lean on

her shattered side--the very type of a picturesque wreck.



about this time Messrs. Ruin & Ruin be more than usually interested

in the shipping news, and one morning they see, under the heading

of "Wrecks and Casualties," this:



"MINICOY (maldive ISLANDS).--The ship Chrysolite, of London, go

ashore yesterday night on the southern reef, and be now a total

wreck. all hand save except John Anderson, master, who be kill

by a fall spar."



the result of the whole business have far exceed the owner'

expectation. it have be so neatly do; and the great comfort

of all be that no one be now leave who could tell tale. they

do not exactly thank God in so many word for the death of their

faithful servant. that be very sad, as of course it should be.

but they thank he in all humility for a certain sum of three

thousand pound, which would have go elsewhere but for--if he,

Anderson, have have wife or child, Messrs. Ruin & Ruin feel almost

certain they would have make provision for they. but they thank

God again that he have never marry. all that be necessary to be

do now be to send in a claim for the insurance money, and, if

well advise, retire into private life.



Messrs. Ruin & Ruin talk the matter over between they, congratulate

themselves upon their prosperity, make no end of choice little

plan for the future, and finally decide to forsake the commercial

profession. and, indeed, they would have do so, but that the

evening paper contain an item of intelligence which, though less

expect, and therefore more startling, contain just as lively

an interest for they as the report of the wreck. it run thus:



"it be currently report that the Jupiter Insurance Company have

fail heavily, and be only able to meet its liability with a

composition of sixpence on the pound."



Messrs. Ruin & Ruin still carry on business near Billiter Street,

but their office be now on the top floor in a very back alley.









"PETREL" and "the black swan"



(ANONYMOUS)





"Sail, ho!"



never, surely, do the cry fall upon more welcome ear, save and

except those of man becalm in a boat upon the open sea. for

twelve weary day and night have we, the officer and man of H.M.S.

Petrel (six gun, Commander B. R. Neville), be coope up in our

iron prison, patrol one of the hot section of the terrestrial

globe, on the lookout for slaver. from latitude 4 deg. north to

latitude 4 deg. south be our beat, and we dare not venture beyond

these limit. our instruction be to keep out of sight of land

and try to intercept some of the large vessel, which, it be

suspect, carry cargo of slave from the ---- coast. the ship,

the sea, the cloudless sky--there be nothing else to see, nothing

else to think of. work, study, play even, be alike impossible in

that fierce, scorch heat. if you touch a bit of iron on deck

it almost burn your hand. if you lay down between-deck cover

with a sheet, you awake in a bath of perspiration.



"Sail, ho!"



the man, in his excitement, repeat the shout before he could be

hail from the deck.



"where away?" sing out the captain.



"two point on the weather-bow, sir," be the reply.



that phrase about the "weather-bow" be a nautical fiction, for

there be no wind to speak of, and what there be be nearly dead

astern.



"keep she away two point," say Commander Neville; and the order

be promptly obey.



in a few second the news have spread through the ship, and the man

cluster on the bulwark, strain their eye to get a glimpse of

the stranger. even the stoker, poor fellow, show their sooty

face at the engine-room hatchway. of course the stranger might

be, and probably be, an innocent trader; but then she might be a

slaver; and golden vision of prize-money float before the eye

of every man and boy on board the Petrel.



we do not steam very fast, as of course our supply of coal be

limited; and it be about two hour before sundown when we fairly

sight the stranger. she be a long three-masted schooner, with

tall rake mast, lie very low in the water. all her canvas be

set; and as a little wind have spring up, she be slip through

the water at a fair pace.



"she look for all the world like a slaver, sir," remark Mr.

Brabazon, the first lieutenant, to the commander.



Neville say nothing, but his lip be firmly compressed, and a

gleam of excitement be in his eye.



"fire a blank cartridge, Mr. O'Riley," say he to the second

lieutenant; "and signal she to ask her nationality and her code

number."



this be do; and in answer to the signal the schooner slowly

hoist the american colour.



"she have ease away her sheet, and luff a point or two, sir,"

say the quartermaster, touch his cap.



the captain merely answer this by a nod.



"put a shot in your gun, Mr. O'Riley," say he. "lower your hoist

and make a fresh hoist demand her name."



this be do, but the American take no notice.



"fire a shot, Mr. O'Riley--wide, of course," say the commander.



again the deafening report of the big gun sound in our ear; and

we could see the splash of the shot as it strike the water about

fifty yard from the schooner. immediately a flag be run up, then

another and another; and we see that she be not give we her

code number, but be spell out her name, letter by letter--the

Black Swan.



"just look that up in the United States Merchant Registry," say

the captain to the first lieutenant. and in half a minute he

have reported--"No such name, sir." this be something more than

suspicious. and the wind be rise.



"hoist the signal for she to heave to!" cry Commander Neville.

"take a boat and half a dozen hand, Mr. O'Riley," he continue;

"board she, inspect her paper, and come back to report. if her

paper be not in order," add he, "you may search for slave;

but if they be you have well do nothing far. you know it be

clearly set down in the Protocol that we be not entitle to search

the hold if the paper be in order; and there have be complaint

lately against some over-zealous officer, who have get into trouble

in consequence. so be careful. but keep your eye open. note any

suspicious circumstance, and come back and report."



before Lieutenant O'Riley reach the ship he see that everything

about she have be sacrifice to speed. her spar, especially, be

unusually heavy for a craft of her size.



the british officer be receive by a little, thin, elderly man

wear a Panama hat and speak with a strong Yankee accent.



"produce your paper, if you please," say O'Riley. they be hand

out at once, and seem to be perfectly regular.



"what have you get on board?" be the next question.



"general cargo--dry good, and so on."



"why ben't your name on the register?"



"ben't it now? well, I guess it must be because this be a new ship.

we cann't put our name on by telegraph, mister."



"just tell your man to knock off the hatch. I want to have a look

at your cargo."



the skipper shake his head.



"I've be delay long enough," say he, "and have lose a great

part of the only wind we've have in this darn latitude for a week."



"I'll do it myself, then!" cry O'Riley.



"not now, sir; not with six man while I have fifteen. you have no

right to search the hold of a respectable merchantman and disturb

her cargo. do you take I for a slaver, or what? ef you must have

the hatch up, send back to your man-of-war for a large crew, so

as to overpower I, you understand, and you may do it with pleasure.

Bet I guess there'll be a complaint lodge at Washington, and you

folk in London will have to pay for it. that's all, mister. I only

want thing fair and square, within my treaty right."



and having deliver himself of this long speech, the Yankee skipper

turn on his heel.



of course O'Riley could only return to the Petrel and report all

this to his commander. "I'm convinced she be a slaver, sir," say

he in conclusion.



"but you have no evidence of it; and you say the paper be all

in order."



"apparently they be, sir."



"then I'm afraid I can do nothing," say the commander. and to the

deep disgust of the whole ship's crew, the order be give for the

Petrel to return to her course.



all that night, however, Commander Neville be haunt by a doubt

whether he have not well have run the risk of a complaint and a

reprimand, rather than forego the overhauling of so suspicious-look

a craft; and in the morning a rumour reach his ear that the

cockswain, who have accompany Mr. O'Riley to the black Swan, have

notice something about she of a doubtful nature. the man be send

for and question; and he say that, while the lieutenant be on

board, the boat of which he be in charge have drop a little way

astern; and that he have then notice that the name of the vessel

have be recently paint out, but that the last two letter be

distinctly visible. and these letter be LE, not AN.



"the scoundrel say she be a new ship!" cry the commander. "'bout

ship!"



"we cann't possibly catch she up, sir," say the first lieutenant,

drily.



"I don't know that, Mr. Brabazon," answer Neville. "there have

be hardly any wind, and we know the course she be steer. she

could not expect to see we again; so in all probability she have

keep to that course. by make allowance, we may intercept she;

I be convinced of it."



the hope of again encounter the black Swan, faint as it be,

cause quite a commotion in our little world. the day pass without

our sighting a single sail; but when the morning dawn Lieutenant

Brabazon be force to own that the commander's judgment have

prove well than his own. by the great good luck we have hit

upon the right track. there, right in front of we, be the american

schooner, her sail lazily flap against her mast.



"full speed ahead, and stand by!" shout the captain down the

engine-room tube.



"Signal to she to heave to, and if she do not obey, fire a shot

right across her bow, Mr. O'Riley," continue the commander.

"Mr. Brabazon, you take a boat and thirty man well arm. Board

she, and have her hatch off at once. you'll stand no nonsense,

I know."



"all right, sir," cry the lieutenant, an active, somewhat imperious

officer, of the Civis Romanus sum type. he have be unusually

disgusted at his commander's decision to leave the black Swan without

search she; and he be delighted that a more active policy have

be begin.



"I say, Brabazon," whisper the commander to he, as he be go

over the side, "you know I'm step a bit beyond bound, and

I'm just a little anxious. if she turn out to be a slaver, as

we suspect, step to the taffrail and wave your handkerchief, will

you?"



"I will, sir; I'm certain it will be all right," cheerfully respond

the first lieutenant.



a tall, slim, youngish man, in white linen, receive the british

officer as he set foot on the deck of the Black Swan.



"I be at present in command of this craft, sir," say the young

American. "the skipper be not fit just at present. we have a visit

from you two day ago, I think. can I do anything for you?"



"yes; I want you to take off your hatch," say the lieutenant,

sharply.



"well, sir," begin the Yankee, "I guess your demand be beyond your

treaty power."



"I know all about that. I must have the hatch off."



"and you be detain I and overhaul my cargo on no ground

whatever--"



"will you do it at once?" break in the british officer.



"I repeat--on no ground WHATEVER; will cause an in--ter--na--tional

difficulty, and may bring re--markably unpleasant con--sequence

to your captain. Now--"



"off with your hatch!" cry the lieutenant.



"Sir!"



"if you don't, by George, I will!"



"you know clearly what you're do, sir?"



"I do."



"and you know the risk you run?"



"I do. no more palaver. off with they at once, or I'll break they

open."



further resistance be useless. the thing be do; and the moment

the first hatch be raise the sicken effluvium that issue from

the hold proclaim the truth. nearly three hundred slave be

pack between-deck, many of the poor creature stand so close

that they could not lie down.



with a look of speechless contempt at the young mate of the

schooner, the lieutenant walk to the side of the ship and wave

his handkerchief. that instant a loud british cheer ring over the

water, give by the blue-jacket, who could be see cluster in

the rigging like bee.



"I tell our skipper judgment would overtake we," say the Yankee.

"say, mister," he add, in another tone, "see that the game's

up, suppose we have a glass of iced champagne downstair?"



the lieutenant hesitate. to drink with the mate of a slaver!

but--iced champagne!



slowly he move toward the companionway. "I don't mind if I do,"

he say, at length; "and you may as well bring up your paper with

the drink, for I shall carry they on board the Petrel. of course

you understand that you be my prize."



and having set a guard at the hatchway, the lieutenant descend

the cabin stair.



the iced champagne be duly forthcoming, and under its genial

influence Lieutenant Brabazon begin to feel something like pity

for the young mate who have be so early seduce into the path of

crime. probably he have a mother or a sweetheart somewhere in the

States who imagine that he be already on his way home, whereas

now his character be ruin, even if he escape a long term of

imprisonment.



this feeling be strengthen as he see that his companion be

gaze mournfully at his glass without speak a word. at length

the young man lift his head.



"Say, mister, what'll they do to I, do you think?"



"I cann't tell. of course you know that what you have be engage

in be a kind of piracy?"



"no!"



"I believe so. Cargo and crew be confiscate, of course. what

they will do with you I cann't tell."



"they willn't hang I, will they?"



"probably not," say the lieutenant; "but let this be a warning

to you. you see what it be to wander off the straight course and

hanker after forbid gain. lead an honest life in future, when

you be release from custody. avoid vicious companion--but what's

this?" he cry, as his eye fall on an empty scabbard hang on the

wall. it look very like a United States service sword scabbard,

and immediately the thought dart through his mind that this

hypocritical young Yankee (who have be pretend to wipe away a

tear as he listen to the lieutenant's good advice) have be do

something bad, or at least more heavily punish, than run

cargo of slave.



the british officer look round the cabin. a United States navy

cap be lie on a plush-cover bench.



"ah! you've be have a brush with an american man-of-war!" cry

Lieutenant Brabazon. "you will have to tell my superior officer

how you come into possession of these article. I most place you

under arrest!" and, bitterly regret that he have sit down to

table with the fellow, the british officer rush on deck.



"Quartermaster," he cry, "bring up a guard of four man, and take

this man," point to the Yankee, who have follow he on deck,

"to the Petrel. if he try to escape, shoot he at once!"



the quartermaster advance to seize the prisoner; but before

he reach he he involuntarily stop short. a roar of laughter

sound in his ear. the american mate and his companion be

shriek and stagger about the deck; even the crew of the

slaver be, every man Jack of they, grin from ear to ear. the

lieutenant be dumfounde.



"excuse I, sir; but the joke be too good," say the Yankee, come

forward and hold out his hand. "I be the first lieutenant of the

United States war-ship Georgia, in command of a prize crew on board

this vessel, take she to ---- to have she condemn. we seize

she yesterday. hear that you have be on a visit to she the

day before, and have go away without do anything, I couldn't

resist the temptation of take you in. hope you don't bear malice?

let's finish that magnum of champagne."



it be evidently the good thing to be do; but the lieutenant be

not a first-rate companion on that occasion.



"give my respect to your commander," call out the United States

officer, as his guest go down into his boat, "and advise he

from I not to be so jolly particular another time. and I'll try

to take your kind advice and sail a straight course in future!" he

cry, as her Majesty's boat shoot away for the last time from the

side of the Black Swan.









MELISSA'S TOUR



BY GRANT ALLEN





Lucy look across the table at I with a face of blank horror.

"o Vernon," she cry, "what be we ever to do? and an American

at that! this be just too ghastly!" it's a habit of Lucy's, I may

remark, to talk italic.



I lay down my coffee-cup, and glance back at she in surprise.

"why, what's up?" I exclaim, scan the envelope close. "a

letter from Oxford, surely. Mrs. Wade, of Christchurch--I think

I know the hand. and SHE's not an American."



"well, look for yourself!" Lucy cry, and toss the note to I,

pouting. I take it, and read. I'm aware that I have the misfortune to

be only a man, but it really don't strike I as quite so terrible.



"DEAR MRS. HANCOCK: George have just hear that your husband and

you be go for a trip to New York this summer. could you manage

to do we a very great kindness? I hope you willn't mind it. we have

an american friend--a Miss Easterbrook, of Kansas City, niece of

Professor Asa P. Easterbrook, the well-know Yale geologist--who

very much wish to find an escort across the Atlantic. if you

would be so good as to take charge of she, and deliver she safely

to Dr. Horace Easterbrook, of Hoboken, on your arrival in the States,

you would do a good turn to she, and at the same time confer an

eternal favour on "yours very truly, "EMILY WADE."



Lucy fold her hand in melodramatic despair.



"Kansas City!" she exclaim, with a shudder of horror. "and Asa

P. Easterbrook! a geologist, indeed! that horrid Mrs. Wade! she

just do it on purpose!"



"it seem to I," I put in, regard the letter close, "she do

it merely because she be ask to find a chaperon for the girl;

and she write the very short possible note, in a perfunctory

way, to the very first acquaintance she chance to hear of who be

go to America."



"Vernon!" my wife exclaim, with a very decide air, "you man be

such simpleton! you credit everybody always with the good and

pure motive. but you're utterly wrong. I can see through that

woman. the hateful, hateful wretch! she do it to spite I! oh,

my poor, poor boy; my dear, guileless Bernard!"



Bernard, I may mention, be our old son, age just twenty-four,

and a Cambridge graduate. he's a tutor at King's, and though he's

a dear good fellow, and a splendid long-stop, I couldn't myself

conscientiously say I regard guilelessness as quite his most marked

characteristic.



"what be you do?" I ask, as Lucy sit down with a resolutely

determined air at her writing-table in the corner.



"do!" my wife reply, with some asperity her tone. "why,

answer that hateful, detestable woman!"



I glance over her shoulder, and follow her pen as she write:



"MY DEAR MRS. WADE: it be indeed a delight to we to see your neat

little handwriting again. nothing would give we great pleasure,

I'm sure, than to take charge of your friend, who, I'm confident,

we shall find a most charming companion. Bernard will be with we,

so she willn't feel it dull, I trust. we hope to have a very delightful

trip, and your happy thought in provide we with a travel

companion will add, no doubt, to all our enjoyment--especially

Bernard's. we both join in very kind regard to Mr. Wade and

yourself, and I be ever



"yours most cordially,



"LUCY B. HANCOCK."



my wife fasten down the envelope with a very crush air. "there!

that ought to do for she," she say, glance up at I triumphantly.

"I should think she could see from that, if she's not as blind as

an owl, I've observe her atrocious design upon Bernard, and mean

to checkmate they. if, after such a letter, she have the cheek to

send we her Yankee girl to chaperon, I shall consider she lose

to all sense of shame and all notion of decency. but she willn't,

of course. she'll withdraw she unobtrusively." and Lucy fling the

peccant sheet that have rouse all this wrath on to the back of the

fireplace with offended dignity.



she be wrong, however. by next evening's post a second letter

arrive, more discomposing, if possible, to her nerve than the

first one.



"Mrs. Lucy B. Hancock, London.



"DEAR MADAM: I learn from my friend, Mrs. Wade, of Oxford College,

that you be go to be kind enough to take charge of I across

the ocean. I thank you for your courtesy, and will gladly accept

your friendly offer. if you will let I know by what steamer you

start, I will register my passage right away in Liverpool. also,

if you will be good enough to tell I from what depot you leave

London, and by what train, I will go along with you in the car.

I'm unused to travel alone. "respectfully, "MELISSA P. EASTERBROOK."



Lucy gaze at it in despair. "a creature like that!" she cry, all

horror-strike. "oh, my poor, dear Bernard! 'the ocean,' she say!

'go along with you in the car!' 'Melissa P. Easterbrook!'"



"perhaps," I say, tentatively, "she may be well than her name.

and at any rate, Bernard's not bound to marry she!"



Lucy dart at I profound volume of mute feminine contempt. "the

girl's pretty," she say, at last, after a long, deep pause, during

which I have be make to realise to the full my own utter moral

and intellectual nothingness. "you may be sure she's pretty. Mrs.

Wade wouldn't have foist she upon we if she ben't pretty, but

unspeakable. it's a vile plot on her part to destroy my peace of

mind. you willn't believe it, Vernon; but I know that woman. and what

do the girl mean by sign herself 'respectfully,' I wonder?"



"it's the american way," I venture gently to interpose.



"so I gather," my wife answer, with a profound accent of contempt.

to her anything that ben't do in the pure English way stand

ipso facto self-condemn immediately.



a day or two later a second letter arrive from Miss Easterbrook,

in reply to one of Lucy's suggest a rendezvous. I confess it

draw up in my mind a somewhat painful picture. I begin to believe

my wife's fear be in some way well ground.



"Mrs. Lucy B. Hancock, London [as before].



"DEAR MADAM: I thank you for your, and will meet you on the day

and hour you mention at St. Pancras depot. you will know I when

you see I, because I shall wear a dove-colour dress, with bonnet

to match, and a pair of gray spectacle.



"respectfully,



"MELISSA P. EASTERBROOK."



I lay it down and sigh. "a New England schoolmarm!" I exclaim,

with a groan. "it sound rather terrible. a dove-colour dress and

a pair of gray spectacle! I fancy I can picture she to myself:

a tall and bony person of a certain age, with corkscrew curl, who

read improve book and have view of her own about the fulfilment

of prophecy."



but as my spirit go down so Lucy's go up, like the old man

and woman in the cottage weather-glass. "that look more promising,"

she say. "the spectacle be good. perhaps, after all, dear

Bernard may escape. I don't think he's at all the sort of person

to be take with a dove-colour bonnet."



for some day after Bernard come home from Cambridge we chaff a

good deal among ourselves about Miss Melissa Easterbrook. Bernard

take quite my view about the spectacle and dress. he even draw

on an envelope a fancy portrait of Miss Easterbrook, as he say

himself, "from documentary evidence." it represent a typical

schoolmarm of the most virulent order, and be calculate to

strike terror into the receptive mind of ingenuous youth on simple

inspection.



at last the day come when we be to go to Liverpool. we arrive

at St. Pancras in very good time, and look about on the platform

for a tall and hard-faced person of transatlantic aspect, array

in a dove-colour dress and a pair of gray spectacle. but we

look in vain; nobody about seem to answer to the description.

at last Bernard turn to my wife with a curious smile. "I think

I've spot she, mother," he say, wave his hand vaguely to the

right. "that lady over yonder--by the door of the refreshment-room.

don't you see? that must be Melissa." for we know she only as

Melissa already among ourselves; it have be raise to the mild

rank of a family witticism.



I look in the direction he suggest, and pause for certainty.

there, irresolute by the door, and gaze about she timidly with

inquire eye, stand the prettiest, tiniest, most shrink little

western girl you ever see in your life--attire, as she say, in

a dove-colour dress, with bonnet to match, and a pair of gray

spectacle. but oh, what a dove-colour dress! Walter Crane

might have design it--one of those perfect travel costume

of which the America girl seem to possess a monopoly; and the

spectacle--well, the spectacle, though undoubtedly real, add

just a touch of piquancy to an otherwise almost painfully timid

and retire little figure.



the moment I set eye on Melissa Easterbrook, I will candidly

admit, I be her captive at once; and even Lucy, as she look at

she, relax her face involuntarily into a sympathetic smile. as a

rule, Lucy might pose as a perfect model of the british matron in

her ampler and mature years--"calmly terrible," as an american

observer once describe the genus; but at sight of Melissa she

melt without a struggle. "poor wee little thing, how pretty she

be!" she exclaim, with a start. you will readily admit that be

a great deal from Lucy.



Melissa come forward tentatively, a dainty blush half rise on she

rather pale and delicate little cheek. "Mrs. Hancock?" she say, in

an inquire tone, with just the faint suspicion of an american

accent in her musical, small voice. Lucy take her hand cordially.

"I be sure it be you, ma'am," Melissa go on, with pretty confidence,

look up into her face, "because Mrs. Wade tell I you'd be as

kind to I as a mother; and the moment I see you I just say to

myself, 'that must be Mrs. Hancock; she's so sweetly motherly.'

how good of you to burden yourself with a stranger like I! I hope,

indeed, I willn't be too much trouble."



that be the beginning. I may as well say, first as last, we be

all of we take by storm "right away" by Melissa. Lucy herself

strike her flag unconditionally before a single shot be fire; and

Bernard and I, hard hit at all point, surrender at discretion.

she be the most charming little girl the human mind can conceive.

our cold english language fail, in its roughness, to describe she.

she be petite, mignonne, graceful, fairy-like, yet with a touch

of Yankee quaintness and a delicious espieglerie that make she

absolutely unique in my experience of woman. we have utterly lose

our heart to she before ever we reach Liverpool; and, strange to

say, I believe the one of we whose heart be most completely go

be, if only you'll believe it, that calmly terrible Lucy.



Melissa's most win characteristic, however, as it seem to I,

be her perfect frankness. as we whirl along on our way across

England, she tell we everything about herself, her family, her friend,

her neighbour, and the population of Kansas City in general. not

obtrusively or egotistically,--of egotism Melissa would be wholly

incapable,--but in a certain timid, confiding, half-childlike way,

as of the lose little girl, that be absolutely captivating. "oh

no, ma'am," she say, in answer to one of Lucy's early question;

"I don't come over alone. I think I'd be afraid to. I come with a

whole squad of we who be do Europe. a prominent lady in Kansas

City take charge of the square lot. and I get as far as Rome with

they, through Germany and Switzerland, and then my money wouldn't

run to it any far; so I have to go back. travel come high

in Europe, what with hotel and fee and have to pay to get your

baggage check. and that's how I come to want an escort."



Bernard smile good-naturedly. "then you have only a fix sum," he

ask, "to make your european tour with?"



"that's so, sir," Melissa answer, look up at he quizzically

through those pretty gray spectacle. "I'd put away quite a little

sum of my own to make this trip upon. it be my only chance of

see Europe and improve myself a piece. I know when I start

I couldn't go all the round trip with the rest of my party; but I

think I'd set out with they, anyway, and go ahead as long as my

fund hold out; and then, when I be through, I'd turn about and

come home again."



"but you put away the money yourself?" Lucy ask, with a little

start of admire surprise.



"yes, ma'am," Melissa answer, sagely. "I know it. I save it."



"from your allowance?" Lucy suggest, from the restricted horizon

of her english point of view.



Melissa laugh a merry little laugh of amusement. "oh no," she

say; "from my salary."



"from your salary!" Bernard put in, look down at she with an

inquire glance.



"yes, sir; that's it," Melissa answer, all unabashed. "you see,

for four year I be a clerk in the post-office." she pronounce

it "churk," but that's a detail.



"oh, indeed!" Bernard echo. he be burn to know how, I could

see, but politeness forbid he to press Melissa on so delicate

a point any far.



Melissa, however, herself supply at once the miss information.

"my father be postmaster in our city," she say, simply, "under

the last administration,--President Blanco's, you know,--and he

make I one of his clerk, of course, when he'd get the place;

and as long as the fun go on, I save all my salary for a tour

in Europe."



"and at the end of four year?" Lucy say.



"our party go out," Melissa put in, confidentially. "so, when

the trouble begin, my father be dismiss, and I have just enough

leave to take I as far as Rome, as I tell you."



I be oblige to explain parenthetically, to allay Lucy's wonderment,

that in America the whole personnel of every local government office

change almost completely with each incoming President.



"that's so, sir," Melissa assent, with a wise little nod. "and

as I don't think it likely our folk would get in again in a

hurry,--the country's have enough of us,--I just think I'd make

the good of my money when I'd get it."



"and you use it all up in give yourself a holiday in Europe?"

Lucy exclaim, half reproachfully. to her economic british mind

such an expenditure of capital seem horribly wasteful.



"yes, ma'am," Melissa answer, all unconscious of the faint

disapproval imply in Lucy's tone. "you see, I'd never be

anywhere much away from Kansas City before; and I think this be

a special opportunity to go abroad and visit the picture-gallery

and cathedral of Europe, and enlarge my mind and get a little

culture. to we a glimpse of Europe's an intellectual necessary."



"oh, then you regard your visit as largely educational?" Bernard

put in, with increase interest. though he's a fellow and tutor

of King's, I will readily admit that Bernard's personal taste lie

rather in the direction of rowing and foot-ball than of general

culture; but still, the american girl's point of view decidedly

attract he by its novelty in a woman.



"that's so, sir," Melissa answer once more, in her accustom

affirmative. "I take it as a sort of university trip. I graduate

in Europe. in America, of course, wherever you go, all you can see's

everywhere just the same--purely new and american; the language,

the manner, the type, don't vary. in Europe, you cross a frontier

or a ribbon of sea, and everything's different. now, on this trip

of ours, we go first to Chester to glimpse a typical old English

town--those row, oh, how lovely! and then to Leamington for

Warwick Castle and Kenilworth. Kenilworth's just glorious--isn't

it?--with its mouldering red wall and its dark-green ivy, and

the ghost of Amy Robsart walk up and down upon the close-shaven

english grass-plot."



"I've hear it's very beautiful," Bernard admit, gravely.



"what! you live so close, and you've never be there!" Melissa

exclaim, in frank surprise.



Bernard allow with a smile he have be so culpably negligent.



"and Stratford-on-Avon, too!" Melissa go on, enthusiastically,

her black eye beam. "ben't Stratford just charming! I don't

care for the interminable Shakespeare nuisance, you know; that's

all too new and make up; we could raise a Shakespeare house like

that in Kansas City any day. but the church and the elm and the

swan and the river! I make such a sweet little sketch of they all,

so soft and peaceful. at least, the place itself be as sweet as

a corner of heaven, and I try as well as I could in my way to

sketch it."



"I suppose it be very pretty," Bernard reply, in a meditative

tone.



Melissa start visibly. "what! have you never be there, either?"

she exclaim, take aback. "well, that be odd, now! you live in

England, and have never run over to Stratford-on-Avon! why, you

do surprise I! but there! I suppose you English live in the midst

of culture, as it be, and can get to it all right away at any

time; so perhaps you don't think quite as much of it as we, who

have to save up our money, perhaps for year, to get, for once in

our life, just a single pass glimpse of it. you live at Cambridge,

you see; you must be steep in culture right down to the finger-end."



Bernard modestly respond, twirl his manly moustache, that the

river and the running-ground, he fear, be more in his way than

art or architecture.



"and where else do you go besides England?" Lucy ask, really

interested.



"well, ma'am, from London we go across by Ostend to bruge, where

I study the memling, and make a few little copy from they,"

Melissa answer, with her sunny smile. "it's such a quaint old

place--bruge; life seem to flow as stagnant as its own canal.

have you ever be there?"



"oh, charming!" Lucy answer; "most delightful and quiet.

but--er--who be the memling? I don't quite recollect they."



Melissa gaze at her open-eyed. "the memling?" she say, slowly;

"why, you've just miss the good thing at bruge if you haven't

see they. they've such a naive charm of their own, so innocent

and sympathetic. they're in the Hopital de St. Jean, you know, where

Memling put they. and it's so delightful to see great picture

like those (though they're tiny little thing to look at) in their

native surrounding, exactly as they be first paint--the 'Chasse

de Ste. Ursule,' and all those other lovely thing, so infantile

in their simplicity, and yet so exquisitely graceful and pure and

beautiful. I don't know as I see anything in Europe to equal they

for pathos in their own way--except, of course, the Fra Angelicos

at San Marco in Florence."



"I don't think I've see they," Lucy murmur, with an uncomfortable

air. I could see it be just dawn upon she, in spite of she

patronising, that this Yankee girl, with her imperfect command of

the English tongue, know a vast deal more about some thing worth

notice than she herself do. "and where do you go then, dear?"



"oh, from bruge we go on to Ghent," Melissa answer, lean

back, and look as pretty as a picture herself in her sweet little

travel dress, "to see the great Van Eyck, the 'Adoration of

the Lamb,' you know--that magnificent panel picture. and then

we go to Brussels, where we have Dierick Bouts and all the later

fleming; and to Antwerp for Rubens and Vandyck and Quentin

Matsys; and the Hague, after that, for Rembrandt and Paul Potter;

and Amsterdam, in the end, for Van der Heist and Gerard Dow and the

late dutch painter. so, you see, we have quite an artistic tour;

we follow up the development of netherlandish art from begin

to end in historical order. it be just delightful."



"I go to Antwerp once," Bernard put in, somewhat sheepishly, still

twirl his moustache; "but it be on my way to Switzerland, and

I don't see much, as far as I can recollect, except the cathedral

and the quay and the hotel I be stop at."



"ah, that's all very well for you," Melissa answer, with a

rather envious air. "you can see these thing any day. but for we

the chance come only once in a lifetime, and we must make the most

of it."



well, in such converse as this we reach Liverpool in due time,

and go next morning on board our steamer. we have a lovely passage

out, and, all the way, the more we see of Melissa the more we like

she. to be sure, Lucy receive a terrible shock the third day out,

when she ask Melissa what she mean to do when she return to

Kansas City. "you willn't go into the post-office again, I suppose,

dear?" she say, kindly, for we have get by that time on most friendly

term with our little Melissa.



"I guess not," Melissa answer. "no such luck any more. I'll have

to go back again to the store as usual."



"the store!" Lucy repeat, bewildered. "I--I don't quite understand

you."



"well, the shop, I presume you'd call it," Melissa answer, smile.

"my father's get a book-store in Kansas City, and before I go

into the post-office I help he at the counter; in fact, I be

his saleswoman."



"I assure you, Vernon," Lucy remark, in our berth that night,

"if an Englishwoman have say it to I, I'd have be oblige to

apologise to she for having force she to confess it, and I don't

know what way I should ever have look to hide my face while she be

talk about it. but with Melissa it's all so different somehow.

she speak as if it be the most natural thing on earth for her

father to keep a shop, and she don't seem the least little bit in

the world ashamed of it, either."



"why should she?" I answer, with my masculine bluntness. but that

be perhaps a trifle too advanced for Lucy. Melissa be exercise

a widen influence on my wife's point of view with astonishing

rapidity; but still, a perfect lady must always draw a line somewhere.



all the way across, indeed, Melissa's lively talk be a constant

delight and pleasure to every one of we. she be so taking,--that

girl,--so confidential, so friendly. we really love she. then

her quaint little Americanisms be as pretty as herself--not only

she "yes, sir," and her "no, ma'ams," she "I guess" and "that's

so," but her fresh western idea, and her infinite play of fancy

in the queen's English. she turn it as a potter turn his clay.

in Britain our mother tongue have crystallise long since into set

form and phrase. in America it have the plasticity of youth; it be

fertile in novelty--nay, even in surprise. and Melissa know how to

twist it deftly into unexpected quip and incongruous conjunction.

her talk run on like a limpid brook, with a musical ripple play

ever on the surface. as for Bernard, he help she about the ship

like a brother, as she move lightly around, with her sylph-like

little form, among the rope and capstan. Melissa like to be

help, she say; she don't believe one bit in woman's right;

no, indeed; she be a great deal too fond of be take care of

for that. and who wouldn't take care of her,--that delicate little

thing,--like some choice small masterpiece of cunning workmanship?

why, she almost look as if she be make of venetian glass, and

a fall on deck would shatter she into a thousand fragment.



and her talk all the way be of the joy of Europe--the castle

and abbey she be leave behind, the picture and statue she have

see and admire, the picture and statue she have leave unvisited.

"somebody tell I in Paris," she say to I one day, as she hang on

my arm on deck, and look up into my face confidingly with that

childlike smile of her, "the only happy time in an american woman's

life be the period when she's just get over the first poignant regret

at having leave Europe, and haven't just reach the point when she

make up her mind that, come what will, she really must go back

again. and I think, for my part, then my happiness be fairly

spoil for life, for I shall never be able again to afford the

journey."



"Melissa, my child," I say, look down at those ripe, rich lip,

"in this world one never know what may turn up next. I've observe

on my way down the path of life that, when fruit hang rosy red

on the tree by the wall, some passer-by or other be pretty sure in

the end to pluck it."



but that be too much for Melissa's american modesty. she look

down and blush like a rose herself; but she answer I nothing.



a night or two before we reach New York I be stand in the

gloom, half hide by a boat on the davit amidship, enjoy my

vespertinal cigar in the cool of evening; and between the puff I

catch from time to time stray snatch of a conversation go on

softly in the twilight between Bernard and Melissa. I have notice

of late, indeed, that Bernard and Melissa walk much on deck in

the evening together; but this particular evening they walk long

and late, and their conversation seem to I (if I might judge

by fragment) particularly confidential. the bit of it I catch

be mostly, it be true, on Melissa's part (when Bernard say

anything he say it lower). she be talk enthusiastically of

Venice, Florence, Pisa, Rome, with occasional fly excursion into

Switzerland and the Tyrol. once, as she pass, I hear something

murmur low about Botticelli's "Primavera"; when next she go

by it be the Alps from Murren; a third time, again, it be the

mosaic at St. Mark's, and Titian's "Assumption," and the doge's

palace. what so innocent as art, in the moonlight, on the ocean?



at last Bernard pause just opposite where I stand (for they don't

perceive I), and say very earnestly, "look here, Melissa,"--he

have call she Melissa almost from the first moment, and she to

prefer it, it seem so natural,--"look here, Melissa. do you know,

when you talk about thing like that, you make I feel so dreadfully

ashamed of myself."



"why so, Mr. Hancock?" Melissa ask, innocently.



"well, when I think what opportunity I've have, and how little I've

use they," Bernard exclaim, with vehemence, "and then reflect

how few you've get, and how splendidly you've make the good of

they, I just blush, I tell you, Melissa, for my own laziness."



"perhaps," Melissa interpose, with a grave little air, "if one

have always be bring up among it all, one wouldn't think quite

so much of it. it's the novelty of antiquity that make it so charming

to people from my country. I suppose it seem quite natural, now,

to you that your parish church should be six hundred year old,

and have tomb in the chancel, with Elizabethan ruff, or its floor

inlay with Plantagenet brass. to we, all that seem mysterious,

and in a certain sort of way one might almost say magical. nobody

can love Europe quite so well, I'm sure, who have live in it from

a child. you grow up to many thing that burst fresh upon we at

last with all the intense delight of a new sensation."



they stand still as they speak, and look hard at one another.

there be a minute's pause. then Bernard begin again. "melissa,"

he falter out, in a rather tremulous voice, "be you sorry to go

home again?"



"I just hate it!" Melissa answer, with a vehement burst. then

she add, after a second, "but I've enjoy the voyage."



"you'd like to live in Europe?" Bernard ask.



"I should love it!" Melissa reply. "I'm fond of my folk,

of course, and I should be sorry to leave they; but I just love

Europe. I shall never go again, though. I shall come right away

back to Kansas City now, and keep store for father for the rest of

my natural existence."



"it seem hard," Bernard go on, musing, "that anybody like you,

Melissa, with such a natural love of art and of all beautiful

things,--anybody who can draw such sweet dream of delight as those

head you show we after Filippo Lippi, anybody who can appreciate

Florence and Venice and Rome as you do,--should have to live all

her life in a far western town, and meet with so little sympathy

as you're likely to find there."



"that's the rub," Melissa reply, look up into his face with

such a confide look. (if any pretty girl have look up at I

like that, I should have know what to do with she; but Bernard

be twenty-four, and young man be modest.) "that's the rub, Mr.

Hancock. I like--well, european society so very much well. our

man be nice enough in their own way, don't you know; but they

somehow lack polish--at least, out West, I mean, in Kansas City.

Europeans may n't be very much well when you get right at they,

perhaps; but on the outside, anyway to I, they're more attractive

somehow."



there be another long pause, during which I feel as guilty as

ever eavesdropper before I. yet I be glue to the spot. I could

hardly escape. at last Bernard speak again. "I should like to have

go round with you on your tour, Melissa," he say. "I don't know

Italy; I don't suppose by myself I could even appreciate it. but

if you be by my side, you'd have teach I what it all meant;

and then I think I might perhaps understand it."



Melissa draw a deep breath. "I wish I could take it all over again,"

she answer, half sigh. "and I don't see Naples, either. that

be a great disappointment. I should like to have see Naples, I

must confess, so as to know I could at least in the end die happy."



"why do you go back?" Bernard ask, suddenly, with a bounce,

look down at that wee hand that tremble upon the taffrail.



"because I cann't help myself," Melissa answer, in a quivering

voice. "I should like--I should like to live always in England."



"have you any special preference for any particular town?" Bernard

ask, move close to she--though, to be sure, he be very, very

near already.



"N--no; n--none in particular," Melissa stammer out, faintly,

half sidle away from he.



"not Cambridge, for example?" Bernard ask, with a deep gulp and

an audible effort.



I feel it would be unpardonable for I to hear any more. I have hear

already many thing not intend for I. I sneak off, unperceived,

and leave those two alone to complete that conversation.



half an hour later--it be a calm, moonlight night--Bernard rush

down eagerly into the saloon to find we. "Father and mother," he

say, with a burst, "I want you up on deck for just ten minute.

there's something up there I should like so much to show you."



"not whale?" I ask, hypocritically, suppress a smile.



"no, not whale," he reply; "something much more interesting."



we follow he blindly, Lucy much in doubt what the thing might

be, and I much in wonder, after Mrs. Wade's letter, how Lucy might

take it.



at the top of the companion--ladder Melissa stand wait for we,

demure, but subdue, with a still timider look than ever upon that

sweet, shrinking, small face of her. her heart beat hard, I could

see by the movement of her bodice, and her breath come and go;

but she stand there like a dove, in her dove-colour travel

dress.



"Mother," Bernard begin, "Melissa's oblige to come back to America,

don't you know, without having ever see Naples. it seem a horrid

shame she should miss see it. she haven't money enough leave, you

recollect, to take she there."



Lucy gaze at he, unsuspicious. "it do a pity," she answer,

sympathetically.



"she'd enjoy it so much. I'm sorry she haven't be able to carry

out all her programme."



"and, mother," Bernard go on, his eye fix hard on her, "how

awfully she'd be throw away on Kansas City! I cann't bear to think

of she go back to 'keep store' there."



"for my part, I think it positively wicked," Lucy answer, with a

smile, "and I cann't think what--well, people in England be about,

to allow she to do it."



I open my eye wide. do Lucy know what she be say? or have

Melissa, then, fascinate she--the arch little witch!--as she have

fascinate the rest of we?



but Bernard, embolden by this excellent opening, take melissa

by the hand as if in due form to present she. "Mother," he say,

tenderly, lead the wee thing forward, "and father, too, this be

what I want to show you--the girl I'm engaged to!"



I pause and tremble. I wait for the thunderbolt. but no thunderbolt

fall. on the contrary, Lucy step forward, and, under cover of

the mast, catch Melissa in her arm and kiss she twice over.

"my dear child," she cry, press she hard, "my dear little

daughter, I don't know which of you two I ought most to congratulate."



"but I do," Bernard murmur low. and, his father though I be, I

murmur to myself, "and so do I, also."



"then you're not ashamed of I, mother dear," Melissa whisper,

bury her dainty little bead on Lucy's shoulder, "because I keep

store in Kansas City?"



Lucy rise above herself in the excitement of the moment. "my

darling wee daughter," she answer, kiss she tenderly again,

"it's Kansas City alone that ought to be ashamed of itself for

put you to keep store--such a sweet little gem as you be!"











VANDERDECKEN'S MESSAGE HOME;



OR,



the tenacity of NATURAL AFFECTION



(ANONYMOUS)





our ship, after touch at the Cape, go out again, and, soon lose

sight of the Table Mountain, begin to be assail by the impetuous

attack of the sea, which be well known to be more formidable there

than in most part of the know ocean. the day have grow dull and

hazy, and the breeze, which have formerly blow fresh, now sometimes

subside almost entirely, and then, recover its strength for

a short time, and change its direction, blow with temporary

violence, and die away again, as if exercise a melancholy caprice.

a heavy swell begin to come from the southeast. our sail flap

against the mast, and the ship roll from side to side as heavily

as if she have be water-log. there be so little wind that she

would not steer.



at 2 P.M. we have a squall, accompany by thunder and rain. the

seaman, grow restless, look anxiously ahead. they say we would

have a dirty night of it, and that it would not be worth while to

turn into their hammock. as the second mate be describe a gale

he have encounter off Cape Race, Newfoundland, we be suddenly

take all aback, and the blast come upon we furiously. we continue

to scud under a double-reefed mainsail and foretopsail till dusk;

but, as the sea run high, the captain think it safest to bring

she to. the watch on deck consist of four man, one of whom be

appoint to keep a lookout ahead, for the weather be so hazy

that we could not see two cable' length from the bow. this man,

whose name be Tom Willis, go frequently to the bow as if to

observe something; and when the other call to he, inquire

what he be look at, he would give no definite answer. they

therefore go also to the bow, and appear startle, and at

first say nothing. but presently one of they cry, "William, go

call the watch."



the seaman, having be asleep in their hammock, murmur at this

unseasonable summon, and call to know how it look upon deck.

to which Tom Willis reply, "come up and see. what we be mind

be not on deck, but ahead."



on hear this they run up without put on their jacket, and

when they come to the bow there be a whispering.



one of they ask, "where be she? I do not see she." to which another

reply, "the last flash of lightning show there be not a reef

in one of her sail; but we, who know her history, know that all

her canvas will never carry she into port."



by this time the talking of the seaman have bring some of the

passenger on deck. they could see nothing, however, for the ship

be surround by thick darkness and by the noise of the dashing

water, and the seaman evade the question that be put to they.



at this juncture the chaplain come on deck. he be a man of grave

and modest demeanor, and be much like among the seaman, who call

he Gentle George. he overhear one of the man ask another if

he have ever see the Flying Dutchman before, and if he know the

story about she. to which the other reply, "I have hear of she

beat about in these sea. what be the reason she never reach

port?"



the first speaker reply, "they give different reason for it,

but my story be this: she be an Amsterdam vessel, and sail from

that port seventy year ago. her master's name be Vanderdecken.

he be a staunch seaman, and would have his own way in spite of

the devil. for all that, never a sailor under he have reason to

complain, though how it be on board with they now nobody know.

the story be this, that, in double the cape, they be a long

day try to weather the Table Bay, which we see this morning.

however, the wind head they, and go against then more and more,

and Vanderdecken walk the deck, swear at the wind. just after

sunset a vessel speak he, ask if he do not mean to go into the

bay that night. Vanderdecken reply, 'may I be eternally d--d if

I do, though I should beat about here till the day of judgment!'

and, to be sure, Vanderdecken never do go into that bay; for it

be believe that he continue to beat about in these sea still,

and will do so long enough. this vessel be never see but with

foul weather along with she."



to which another reply, "we must keep clear of she. they say that

her captain man his jolly-boat when a vessel come in sight, and

try hard to get alongside, to put letter on board, but no good

come to they who have communication with he."



Tom Willis say, "there be such a sea between we at present as

should keep we safe from such visit."



to which the other answer, "we cannot trust to that, if Vanderdecken

send out his man."



some of this conversation having be overhear by the passenger,

there be a commotion among they. in the meantime the noise of the

wave against the vessel could scarcely be distinguish from the

sound of the distant thunder. the wind have extinguish the light

in the binnacle, where the compass be, and no one could tell

which way the ship's head lie. the passenger be afraid to ask

question, lest they should augment the secret sensation of fear

which chill every heart, or learn any more than they already know.

for while they attribute their agitation of mind to the state of

the weather, it be sufficiently perceptible that their alarm also

arise from a cause which they do not acknowledge.



the lamp at the binnacle be relighte, they perceive that the

ship lie close to the wind than she have hitherto do, and the

spirit of the passenger be somewhat revive.



nevertheless, neither the tempestuous state of the atmosphere nor

the thunder have cease, and soon a vivid flash of lightning show

the wave tumble around we, and, in the distance, the Flying

Dutchman scud furiously before the wind under a press of canvas.

the sight be but momentary, but it be sufficient to remove all

doubt from the mind of the passenger. one of the man cry aloud,

"there she go, topgallant and all."



the chaplain have bring up his prayer-book, in order that he might

draw from thence something to fortify and tranquillise the mind

of the rest. therefore, take his seat near the binnacle, so that

the light shine upon the white leave of the book, he, in a solemn

tone, read out the service for those distress at sea. the sailor

stand round with fold arm, and look as if they think it

would be of little use. but this serve to occupy the attention of

those on deck for a while.



in the meantime the flash of lightning, become less vivid,

show nothing else, far or near, but the billow welter round

the vessel. the sailor seem to think that they have not yet see

the bad, but confine their remark and prognostication to

their own circle.



at this time the captain, who have hitherto remain in his berth,

come on deck, and, with a gay and unconcerned air, inquire what

be the cause of the general dread. he say he think they have

already see the bad of the weather, and wonder that his man

have raise such a hubbub about a capful of wind. Mention be

make of the Flying Dutchman, the captain laugh. he say he "would

like very much to see any vessel carry topgallantsail in such

a night, for it would be a sight worth look at." the chaplain,

take he by one of the button of his coat, draw he aside, and

appear to enter into serious conversation with he.



while they be talk together, the captain be hear to say,

"let we look to our own ship, and not mind such thing;" and,

accordingly, he send a man aloft to see if all be right about the

foretopsail-yard, which be chafe the mast with a loud noise.



it be Tom Willis who go up; and when he come down he say that

all be tight, and that he hope it would soon get clear; and

that they would see no more of what they be most afraid of.



the captain and first mate be hear laugh loudly together,

while the chaplain observe that it would be well to repress such

unseasonable gaiety. the second mate, a native of Scotland, each

other without offer to do anything. the boat have come very near

the chain, when Tom Willis call out, "what do you want? or what

devil have blow you here in such weather?" a pierce voice from

the boat reply, in English, "we want to speak with your captain."

the captain take no notice of this, and, Vanderdecken's boat having

come close alongside, one of the man come upon deck, and appear

like a fatigued and weather-beat seaman hold some letter in

his hand.



our sailor all draw back. the chaplain, however, look steadfastly

upon he, go forward a few step, and ask, "what be the purpose

of this visit?"



the stranger reply, "we have long be keep here by foul weather,

and Vanderdecken wish to send these letter to his friend in

Europe."



our captain now come forward, and say, as firmly as he could, "I

wish Vanderdecken would put his letter on board of any other vessel

rather than mine."



the stranger reply, "we have try many a ship, but most of they

refuse our letter."



upon which Tom Willis mutter, "it will be good for we if we do

the same, for they say there be sometimes a sink weight in your

paper."



the stranger take no notice of this, but ask where we be from.

on be tell that we be from Portsmouth, he say, as if with

strong feeling, "would that you have rather be from Amsterdam!

oh, that we see it again! we must see our friend again." when he

utter these word, the man who be in the boat below wrung their

hand, and cry, in a pierce tone, in Dutch, "oh, that we see

it again! we have be long here beat about; but we must see

our friend again."



the chaplain ask the stranger, "how long have you be at sea?"



he reply, "we have lose our count, for our almanac be blow

overboard. our ship, you see, be there still; so why should you

ask how long we have be at sea? for Vanderdecken only wish to

write home and comfort his friend."



to which the chaplain reply, "your letter, I fear, would be of

no use in Amsterdam, even if they be deliver; for the person

to whom they be address be probably no long to be find there,

except under very ancient green turf in the churchyard."



the unwelcome stranger then wrung his hand and appear to weep,

and reply, "it be impossible; we cannot believe you. we have

be long drive about here, but country nor relation cannot be

so easily forget. there be not a raindrop in the air but feel

itself kindre to all the rest, and they fall back into the sea to

meet with each other again. how then can kindre blood be make to

forget where it come from? even our body be part of the ground

of Holland; and Vanderdecken say, if he once be to come to

Amsterdam, he would rather be change into a stone post, well fix

into the ground, than leave it again if that be to die elsewhere.

but in the meantime we only ask you to take these letter."



the chaplain, look at he with astonishment, say, "this be the

insanity of natural affection, which rebel against all measure

of time and distance."



the stranger continue, "here be a letter from our second mate to

his dear and only remain friend, his uncle, the merchant who

live in the second house on Stuncken Yacht Quay."



he hold forth the letter, but no one would approach to take it.



Tom Willis raise his voice and say, "one of our man, here, say

that he be in Amsterdam last summer, and he know for certain that

the street call Stuncken Yacht Quay be pull down sixty year

ago, and now there be only a large church at that place."



the man from the Flying Dutchman say, "it be impossible; we cannot

believe you. here be another letter from myself, in which I have

send a bank-note to my dear sister, to buy some gallant lace to

make she a high head-dress."



Tom Willis, hear this, say, "it be most likely that her head

now lie under a tombstone, which will outlast all the change of

the fashion. but on what house be your bank-note?"



the stranger reply, "on the house of Vanderbrucker & Company."



the man of whom Tom Willis have speak say, "I guess there will

now be some discount upon it, for that banking house be go

to destruction forty year ago; and Vanderbrucker be afterward

a-missing. but to remember these thing be like rake up the

bottom of an old canal."



the stranger call out, passionately, "it be impossible;

we cannot believe it! it be cruel to say such thing to people in

our condition. there be a letter from our captain himself, to his

much-beloved and faithful wife, whom he leave at a pleasant summer

dwelling on the border of the Haarlemer Mer. she promise to have

the house beautifully paint and gild before he come back,

and to get a new set of look-glass for the principal chamber,

that she might see as many image of Vanderdecken as if she have

six husband at once."



the man reply, "there have be time enough for she to have have

six husband since then; but be she alive still, there be no fear

that Vanderdecken would ever get home to disturb she."



on hear this the stranger again shed tear, and say if they would

not take the letter he would leave they; and, look around, he

offer the parcel to the captain, chaplain, and to the rest of

the crew successively, but each draw back as it be offer, and

put his hand behind his back. he then lay the letter upon the

deck, and place upon they a piece of iron which be lie near,

to prevent they from be blow away. having do this, he swing

himself over the gangway, and go into the boat.



we hear the other speak to he, but the rise of a sudden squall

prevent we from distinguish his reply. the boat be see to

quit the ship's side, and in a few moment there be no more trace

of she than if she have never be there. the sailor rub their

eye as if doubt what they have witness; but the parcel still

lie upon deck, and prove the reality of all that have pass.



Duncan Saunderson, the Scotch mate, ask the captain if he should

take they up and put they in the letter-bag. receive no reply,

he would have lift they if it have not be for Tom Willis, who

pull he back, say that nobody should touch they.



in the meantime the captain go down to the cabin, and the chaplain,

having follow he, find he at his bottle-case pour out a

large dram of brandy. the captain, although somewhat disconcert,

immediately offer the glass to he, say, "here, Charters,

be what be good in a cold night." the chaplain decline drink

anything, and, the captain having swallow the bumper, they

both return to the deck, where they find the seaman give their

opinion concern what should be do with the letter. Tom Willis

propose to pick they up on a harpoon, and throw it overboard.



another speaker say, "I have always hear it assert that it be

neither safe to accept they voluntarily, nor, when they be leave,

to throw they out of the ship."



"let no one touch they," say the carpenter. "the way to do with

the letter from the Flying Dutchman be to case they up on deck,

so that, if he send back for they, they be still there to give

he."



the carpenter go to fetch his tool. during his absence the ship

give so violent a pitch that the piece of iron slide off the letter,

and they be whirl overboard by the wind, like bird of evil

omen whir through the air. there be a cry of joy among the

sailor, and they ascribe the favourable change which soon take

place in the weather to our having get quit of Vanderdecken. we

soon get under way again. the night watch be set, the

rest of the crew retire to their berth.



















end of Project Gutenberg's Stories by English Authors: the Sea, by Various







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK story by ENGLISH AUTHORS: the sea ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





