The project Gutenberg eBook of Round the Galley Fire

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: round the Galley Fire



author: William Clark Russell



Release date: April 4, 2020 [ebook #61750]

                most recently update: October 17, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed

        Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (this file be

        produce from image available at the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK ROUND the GALLEY FIRE ***



                         round the GALLEY FIRE





                                  BY

                           W. CLARK RUSSELL



                               AUTHOR of



           “the wreck of the GROSVENOR,” “AN OCEAN TRAGEDY,”

                     “on the FOK’S’LE head,” ETC.



                       [illustration: colophon]





                            _a NEW EDITION_





                                London

                      CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

                                 1893





these story and sketch originally appear in _the Daily Telegraph_.

no further preface to they be need than this statement; for the title

under which they be collect will fitly express their character, if

the reader can imagine himself one of an audience, in a cold Dog Watch,

listen to the yarn of a man who have plant himself in the galley,

where he deliver his memory and notion to the little company who

have gather round to listen.









content.





                                                                    PAGE



a dance AT SEA                                                         1



go aloft                                                           10



a TRICK at the wheel                                                  22



the bailiff AT SEA                                                    31



OFF the HORN                                                          43



a strange CHASE                                                       54



a salvage JOB                                                         66



a channel incident                                                    78



loss of a smack’S CREW                                                88



FIRE AT SEA                                                           98



SEA-SICKNESS                                                         107



a log EXTRACT                                                        118



in an open BOAT                                                      127



wait for a SHIP                                                   138



skipper’ wife AT SEA                                               151



SEA song                                                            162



an HOUR’S ROW                                                        173



the PLEASURES of yachting                                            187



a DRUNKEN SHIP                                                       196



a SAILOR’S CLUB                                                      208



the peril of HUMANITY                                               221



SMACK APPRENTICES                                                    232



GRAVESEND                                                            245



a chat with a fisherman                                              256



a FOURPENNY VOYAGE                                                   266



POOR JACK                                                            276



on the GOODWINS                                                      288



the stranger’ HOME                                                  298









ROUND the GALLEY FIRE.









_a dance AT SEA._





a large australian passenger ship, homeward bind from Sydney, New South

Wales, lay becalm in about two degree south of the line. she have

carry the trade-wind to that point, but it have fail she at daybreak,

and all day long she have hang upon the whitish-blue of the oil-smooth

sea, slightly lean with the swell that run through the bosom of the

deep with the regularity of a restful respiration, her white canvas

softly beat against the yellow mast, which be radiant with line

of fire, and the water bubble like a fountain under her counter, as

the stern of the great fabric be depress by the heave of the swell

under the bow.



she be tolerably well crowded with human being, carry a large

number of passenger in the cuddy and steerage, and some thirty or forty

people in the ’tween deck. the poop be shelter by an awning, and

under it, seat on chair or lounge upon the skylight and the

hencoop, be such of the passenger as be privileged to use that

portion of the deck, reading, talk, smoking, cast languid eye

upon the breathless ocean; lady fan themselves, gentleman in the

airy possible costume, and at the extremity of the shadowed deck the

steersman grasp the wheel, his figure in the pour vertical

sunshine rise and fall against the rich sapphire of the tropical

heaven with the swaying of the ship, and the brilliant brass of the

binnacle-hood flash into flame as it slowly lift and sink under

the eye of the burn luminary.



the quarter-deck be partially shelter by the fold of the mainsail,

which hang from the great yard in the grip of the leechline; and there,

wherever the shadow rest, congregate the steerage and ’tween-deck

passenger, loll red-faced and open-breast. in one place a knot of

woman with child gather about they, in another a number of man in

their shirt-sleeve sprawl in many posture, and, forward, glimpse

of Jack could be catch at work at some job in the waist, or on the

forecastle, or in the shadow of the break of his big parlour, or pop

his head through the scuttle with a sooty invert pipe between his

tooth to have a look around he, or enjoy a wash-down, strip to

the hip, in a bucket of salt water, screen from the passenger’ eye

by the galley; while the live stock in the long boat fill the air that

way with rumble and squeaking noise, which harmonize with the hoarse

pipe of the boatswain standing betwixt the knighthead and bawl

instruction to a couple of ordinary seaman on the foretopsail-yard.



the day pass with never so much as a shadow upon the sea to give the

officer on duty an excuse to sing out to the watch. but nobody could

reasonably complain. the ship have rush grandly into this stagnant

ocean under topmast and topgallant studdingsail, and for day and day

the roar of foam speeding furiously past and the thunder of the

trade-wind sweep into the spacious concavity of the gleaming

cloth have be familiar sound. this calm be only like give the ship

a little breathing-time. besides, it would directly serve a very

pleasant purpose then in hand, which be simply this. it be the

birthday of the daughter of one of the passenger, a rich australian

gentleman. the girl be pretty, charming in manner, and universally

like; indeed, four gentleman be seriously in love with she, and one

of these have suggest that they should celebrate the occasion by a

dance. the skipper come promptly into the scheme, and so do the rich

australian papa, who merely stipulate that the dance should be general

from one end of the ship to the other, and that he should be at the

charge of enough wine to keep the heel of the forecastle and

’tween-deck nimble and up to the mark. they could dance in a calm like

this, and the light and regular swell would be rather a help than a

hindrance, as the heave of the deck should put additional alacrity into

the swing of a waltz or the stampede of a gallop round the hencoop and

hatchway. they could muster a little music: a flute, a concertina, and

two fiddle, and they also have the cuddy piano. so all that be needful

for a sea-ball be at hand, and in the second dog-watch, before the sun

go down, they begin to prepare for the festivity. there would be a

bright moon, and the question whether they should dance in its light,

like the Buffalo girl, or keep the awning spread, have be earnestly

debate at luncheon and dinner. it be decide, however, to let the

awning stand--first, because it would keep the dew from the deck; and,

secondly, because the lantern would show to advantage in its shadow.



at the appoint time, therefore, the sailor come along to rig up the

lantern, as many as they have, sidelight, cabin-lamp, and the like.

any departure from regular routine delight Jack, and his grin be never

broad nor his whisper joke more explosive than at such time.

besides, he be to dance presently, and he tumble through the

preparation like a man in a hurry to enjoy himself. the sun go

down--a mass of glorious splendour--fling up the glass-smooth water

until the western horizon all that way look to be twenty league

distant, and shed a haze of purple gold far to the eastward of the

zenith that tint the mighty expanse of ocean with a delicate crimson

which yield fast to the eager stride of the tropical night, though

darkness be in the east, and the large tremulous silver star be

sparkle upon its deep ebony bosom, and the white snow-like moon be

float in the pure deep shadow in the south and whiten the water

with a slender stream of icy light, when the west be still ardent with

the fire of the vanish day-beam.



the cool of the night be immediately feel in the air, and now the

circling draught throw down upon the deck by every flap of the low

canvas could be feel and enjoy. with the row of lantern along the

poop, here a red and there a green one, mingle with the yellow

radiance of the other lamp, the lustrous pearl of the moonlight on the

main deck and forecastle, and the drowsily-flap sail lift their

pale height to the star, the ship be a picturesque object indeed. the

musician post themselves against the rail at the break of the poop,

so that all hand could hear their strain and dance to they; and

everything be ready, they dash into a waltz, keep very good

time, and accompany (after a fashion) by the piano in the cuddy, the

note of which rise very clearly through the open sky-light. Aft, of

course, there be the necessary decorum, lady and gentleman glide

over the smooth planking and skim along with great propriety, and

with a more or less tolerable exhibition of art. but on the main deck

and forecastle shore custom be not very strictly adhere to. woman

dance with woman, man with man; the child hop to and fro,

clap their hand and get in the way; here and there a sailor

would be show off his pace in a lonely dance, slap the deck with

his heel in a hornpipe without the least reference to the music, which,

so long as it keep go, be all the same to he, no matter what dance

it play. the steward and his mate bustle about with wine and

glass; but the wine be light, and Jack, and many of the steerage and

’tween-deck passenger too, no doubt, be season, and the mild

refreshment do no further mischief than impart a sense of festivity.



they say, and I can well believe, that a pretty sight be never see

than all those people dance, and laugh, and enjoy themselves on

the deck of that becalm and sleep australian vessel. you must

figure yourself take your stand on one of the poop-ladder, say, clear

of the awning, where, look aft, you could see the row of lantern and

the dancer shift their colour as they sweep round into the ray of

the green and red lamp, with little flood of moonlight here and there

upon the deck under the awning; and beyond, the man at the wheel,

stand there like a bronze figure, the binnacle lamp softly touching

his shape with light, and make his image clear against the star which

slowly slide to and fro, past he; or where, look forward, you

command the vessel to the very eye of she, whence the great bowsprit

and long jibboom fork into the gloom like a spear point by a giant,

on which the row of jib glimmer as they soar into the pale

obscurity. on those deck the moonlight lie broad; but in place shine

a yellow light which, with the moonshine, throw twin-shadow upon the

silver plank, and the shadow of the rigging be sharp and black,

and score the sail as though they be rule with line of India ink.

the crowd of big spare boom over the galley, the outline of the huge

windlass barrel under the forecastle, the solid mast pierce the night

and bear on high their vast stretch of symmetrical canvas, from

which an occasional shower of dew would fall when the sail come in to

the mast, loom large and vague in the moonlight; there be something

of shadowiness, too, in the figure of the dancer as they sway in

crowd between the bulwark, and frollicke on the forecastle, with

frequent burst of hearty laughter and loud call, which be throw

back in light echo from the lofty sail.



the musician vary the dance often, but it be all one to the sailor

and the steerage passenger, and whilst the cuddy people be staidly

stalk through quadrille or decorously gyrate in waltz or hop

gravely through a mazurka, the company on the main deck keep steadily to

galop and polkas--this last, a beloved dance among sailor--flounder

against each other, capsize over the child, spin around the

main hatch and through the galley, and awake the echo of the

forecastle with their active toeing and heeling.



but it be impossible to look abroad upon the vast and vague distance

of the dark sea, upon whose horizon, down to the very water’s edge, the

star be shine like firefly, without a mingling of melancholy in

the thought. how small a speck that ship make in the midst of the

lonely league of ocean! how minute a theatre suffice for the revelry

of near upon two hundred human soul! the contrast between the sound in

the vessel and the deep silence upon the sea be define to a degree

such as no pen could give expression to. the silence be like the night

itself, a near and impervious envelopment which absorb the shout and

laughter of the dancer as a stone fling at a mound of snow vanishe in

it. the water against the ship’s side look thick and black and

sluggish as liquid pitch, but now and again the wash of the swell would

set it on fire with phosphorous, that pour away under the surface in

bright illuminated cloud, which sparkle and fade until they vanish

utterly and the water be black again. once an exclamation from the

second mate, who be look over the rail at the sea, bring several

dancer to his side, and, follow the indication of his outstretche

finger, they perceive a fiery oval shape sneak stealthily along

towards the bow of the ship. “only a shark, lady, hope that some of

we may waltz ourselves overboard;” and, merrily laugh, the dancer

draw away and fall to their prancing afresh.



but presently, and in the midst of all this gaiety, the stream of

moonlight in the south-west sea--a reflection that have hang like a cone

of solid silver without a breath to tarnish the exquisite polish of its

surface--tremble, and the water on either hand of it take a deep

shadow. overhead the sail be silent, and a faint air stream athwart

the poop under the awning. the skipper, a fine-look, hearty seaman,

swing himself abreast of the officer in charge, with his arm still

clasp the waist of his partner, say something in a low voice, and

whisk off again. the officer walk to the break of the poop, and his

loud cry startle the dancer on the main deck for a moment.



“trim sail, the watch! Lay aft some hand, and man the starboard main

brace. Wheel, there; how’s her head?”



“north-west by north, sir.”



and now some new strain be add to those produce by the musician.

the rough voice of seaman round in the brace rise harshly, and the

measure of the dance music be somewhat perplex by the sharp cry

of “belay all that!” “Haul taut to wind’ard!” “too much the royal yard.

Slacken a bit to leeward!” but the dancer, to whose ear those cry

be as familiar as their finger be to their eye, go on foot it

bravely. the deck grow steady and slightly inclined; the sail have

fall asleep, and there be not a stir among the pallid fold; a

pleasant sound of tinkle water come up from the ship’s side, and under

the counter a narrow wake of green fire crawl away, with little eddy

of foam twinkling among the ghastly sparkle of the phosphorus.



but the musician begin to slacken; the piano have give over, and Jack

have light his pipe forward, and be begin to remember that his

watch below would be up in two hour. by-and-by a bell be ring in the

cuddy, and those who look through the skylight see that the grog and

the biscuit be on the table. the music end suddenly, and the

fiddler and the other gather around the cuddy door, where they be

receive by the steward, who hand they each a glass of liquor. in two

and three the steerage and ’tween-deck passenger go below, and in

half an hour the ship’s deck be desert save by the steersman, the

pacing officer of the watch, and some dark figure lean over the

head-rail, visible from the poop under the arched foot of the foresail.

up through the booby and main hatch would come fitfully the sound of a

child crying, or a woman’s voice talk low, or the growling hum of

man; otherwise the silence be profound, the ship like a phantom in the

moonlight, and nothing audible aloft but the moan of the tropical night

breeze in the rigging, with now and again the creak of a sheave as the

light swing of the swell hove the great ship very gently to windward,

and bring an extra strain upon the taut sheet.









_go aloft._





some time ago, when the Queen be at Osborne, her Majesty visit a

troopship in her yacht the _Alberta_. her Majesty’s ship _hector_, lie

in Cowes Roads, man yard in honour of the royal presence. one of the

man get as high as the main truck and stand upon it. the main truck be a

small circular platform--vary in diameter, of course, accord to

the size of the ship--fix on the royal masthead, the high point of

the mast. sometimes it have hole in it, through which halliard be rove

for hoist flag. the truck of the _hector_, I be tell, be

furnish with iron staff, so that the sailor who stand on the main

truck have something to lay hold of. but this diminish nothing of the

wonder of the feat. the nerve require coolly to stand upon a small

circumference at a prodigious elevation be one thing; the more

extraordinary feature of that achievement lie, it would strike a

landsman, in the man’s get over and on to the truck, and then

kneeling and swinge himself off it and down upon the royal rigging. in

the fine old song of the “Leap for Life,” the skipper’s son get upon

the main truck and stand there, hold on with his eyelid. to save

his life he be order to jump, and the dog follow he overboard and

pick he up. the order to that boy be a sensible one, for though it

be perfectly true that he have manage to get upon the truck, it be

really impossible that he should get off it without fall.



in truth, go aloft be one of the hard part of the sea-life at the

first start. seaman who be active, courageous man enough, have tell I

that it take they month to vanquish their nervousness; and many a young

fellow have give up the sea after the first voyage simply because he

never could overcome the purely physical infirmity of giddiness the

moment he have his foot in the ratline. in “Redburn,” one of Herman

Merivale’s delightful sea tale, this weakness be illustrate in an

incident narrate with wonderful power. a young man, name Harry Bolton,

ship for the return voyage from Liverpool. he be rate as an ordinary

seaman, but his friend notice that when any work have to be do aloft,

Harry be always busy about the belay pin, make fast the clewline,

etc. at last he candidly own to his friend that he have make a private

trial of it, and that he cannot go aloft; that his nerve would not

allow of it. but this do not save he. one day the mate order he to

mount to the main truck and unreeve the short signal halliard. where

the end of the halliard come be not state, but one might think that

the royal yard would have be high enough for the unfortunate young man

to have clamber, even if the crosstree would not have do. be this

as it may, Harry Bolton hesitates, be rope’s-end by the mate, finally

spring into the main-rigging and get as high as the maintop. when

there he look down, and his heart instantly fail he. the pitiless

mate thereupon order a dutch sailor to follow and help he up, which

the Dutchman do with his head, bat at the base of his back and

hoist he along in that way. “need must,” continue the narrator,

“when the devil drive; and higher and high, with Max bump he at

every step, go my unfortunate friend. at last he gain the royal

yard, and the thin signal halliard--scarcely big than common

twine--be fly in the wind. ‘unreeve,’ cry the mate; I see Harry’s

arm stretch out--his leg seem shake in the rigging, even to we

down on deck; and at last, thank heaven! the deed be do. he come down

pale as death, with bloodshot eye and every limb quivering.”



Sailors will know there be no exaggeration in all this. some beginner

will run up aloft like monkey, other will get into the shroud and

stand there, hang back and look up, and hold on as if they

mean, to use an old sea phrase, to squeeze all the tar out of the

rope. there be not, perhaps, any bad cruelty practise on board ship

than that of drive a nervous lad aloft. in former time there be a

custom call prick--a sailor get behind a boy and force he up by

dig into he with a pin or a “pricker.” it be, perhaps, scarcely

worth while, nowadays, to speak of such thing--the sailing ship be

die out, and the steamer give but little work to do aloft; but there

be few man who have follow the sea who cannot recall case of

exquisite suffering in nervous boy hurry and prick and thrust up

the rigging. one instance I remember--that of a lad of thirteen, who be

ship in an australian port. he be order on to the foreroyal yard

along with another youngster. it be his first journey up the mast, and

when he be half-way up the shroud he come to a dead stop. the

boatswain sing out to he to look alive and go on. the poor little chap,

with shake hand and a face like the foam alongside, foot it as high

as the futtock shroud, where he halt, look up at the overhanging

platform of the top. “over you go,” shout the boatswain from the

forecastle. “I cann’t, sir; indeed I cann’t, sir!” cry the little fellow

piteously. “we’ll see about that,” say the boatswain, and call to an

ordinary seaman to help he up. this youth be a brute, and when he

reach the clinging boy he begin to pinch he in the leg, and pull

out his sheath-knife and threaten to stab he if he do not go over

the top. it be a big top, the angle of the mast--the wind be abaft

the beam--be a small one, and the futtock shroud stretch away from

the boy like the rib of an open umbrella from the stick. the miserable

little fellow, terrify by the sight of the knife behind he, lay hold

of the long iron and make a swing with his leg at the ratline, miss

they, vibrate a moment or two like a pendulum, and then drop past

the outstretched hand of the sailor below he like a flash, strike the

shroud, and rebound as a ball might overboard. he be drown, of

course.



but as steamer multiply and the number of sailing ship decrease,

go aloft will become the least and most infrequent of sea duty.

practical seamanship, in the old sense, be bind to die out, because

there be no need to preserve it. it be only the other day that an old

skipper assure I that he be acquaint with the mate of a steamer who

do not know what a harness-cask be, “and, bad of all, sir,” cry my

friend, “he’s not ashamed of his ignorance.” it be true that

harness-cask have not much to do with seamanship; but one may excuse a

shipmaster of the old school for take a very gloomy view of the

contemporary marine when he meet a man hold a master mariner’s

certificate, ignorant of the receptacle in which Jack’s salt horse be

keep when he be at sea. Most of the steamer nowadays be monkey-rig,

many of they with pole-mast, which be useful mainly as derrick upon

which a little bit of fore and aft canvas will be hoist to steady the

vessel. what should man who serve in such ship know about go aloft?

even a landsman may comprehend the emotion excite in a seaman who have

pass his life in sailing ship when he see sailor without any spar

or rig to attend to, and with nothing to do but to wash deck down.

nearly all the work of the traditional mariner lie aloft, and to

reflect upon Jack without dead-eye to turn in, chafing gear to look

after, reef-point to knot, rig to tar, mast to stay, studdingsail

gear to reeve, and the like, be almost as confound as to think of he

sleeping aft, eat fresh meat throughout the run, and go to the

steward for a can of filter water, instead of to the capstan for his

eight bell caulker of fiery black rum. no doubt thing be pleasanter

as they be. it must be nice to turn in with the certainty of have the

whole of your watch below, instead of go to bed in your sea-boot in

readiness for the thundering of a handspike, and the cruel roar of “all

hand shorten sail!” and yet, to the true sailor, go aloft be so much

the part of his life, it be so complete a condition of his vocation,

that when such a man find himself aboard a steamer with nothing to take

notice of above his head, it may be suppose that at the first go off

he be as fully bewildered as a steamer’s man--that is, a man who have

never serve in anything but steamer--would be among the rope of a

full-rig ship, take aback with her stud sail abroad. he will

miss the old song at the reef tackle, the flapping of canvas, the thud

of coil of halliard and clew-line fling down on deck, the spring

into the shroud, the helter-skelter for the weather eare, or the

ascent of the topgallant mast that jump to the flogging of the

clew-up sail.



there be a touch of wild excitement in go aloft in heavy weather,

which no seaman can be insensible to; just as in a calm day or night a

man may find a strange pleasure in linger a few moment aloft after

he have do his work, and look down. the labour of reefing have be

greatly diminish by the double topsail yard, which halve the great

sail, so that when the halliard of the upper yard be let go, the

ship be under close-reef topsail. moreover, there be only half the

weight of the sail to handle in reef or stowing. this valuable

contrivance make the task of shorten sail light in comparison with

what the labour be in the day of the whole topsail. old seaman will

remember what that kind of canvas involve in a ship of fourteen or

fifteen hundred ton, man by about eighteen or twenty man, capable of

do sailor’ work aloft.



it be the second dog watch. the royal and mizzen-topgallant sail have

be furl, but the wind come in freshen puff, the sky have a

menacing look away out on the starboard beam, and at eight bell all

hand be keep on deck to roll up the mainsail and topgallant sail, and

tie a single reef in the fore and mizzen topsail. the sea wash

noisily against the weather bow, and the night settle down as black as

a pocket; but the ship be tolerably snug, there be no great weight of

wind as yet, and the watch below be dismiss to the forecastle. they

have be an hour in their hammock or bunk, when, on a sudden, the

scuttle be rudely fling open, and a loud cry summon they on deck. they

be up in a moment, scarcely wait to pull on their jacket, for the

instant they be awake they perceive that the vessel be on her beam

end, and they can hear the thunder of a gale of wind rage overhead.

all three topsail halliard have be let go, and the watch be yell

out at the reef-tackle, the skipper shout at the mizzen-rigging, the

chief mate bawl from the break of the poop, and the second mate and

boatswain roaring in the waist and on the forecastle. the sea be fly

heavily over the weather rail of the prostrate ship, and add its

peculiar burst noise to the din of the furiously-shake canvas, to

the deafening booming of the wind, and the hoarse long-draw cry of

the sailor haul upon the rope. you can barely see the weather

shroud, though to leeward their black line be plain enough against

the washing height of foam which swell up as high as the rail of the

bulwark. you do not feel the force of the gale until you be in the

rigging, and then for a spell the iron-hard pressure of it pin you

against the shroud as if you have be make a spread-eagle. the rain

drive along in slash horizontal line, and you see the sparkle of

the deluge over the skylight where the light of the cabin lamp be

shine; or, maybe, the gale be charge with sleet and hail, and the

cold so tauten your finger that you can scarcely curl they to the

shape of the rope you grasp. over the top you swarm in company with the

rest of your watch, perhaps get a blow on the head from the heel of

some fellow above you as you lay yourself backwards to swing over the

futtock shroud; and then, find the weather side of the topsail yard

with as many hand on it as be need, you pass over to leeward, where

you find the boatswain or third mate astride of the yard-arm, ready for

the cry of “haul out to leeward,” to pass the earing. at such a time as

this a man have too much to do to look about he; the ship be bring

close to shake the sail, that the man may get the reef-band against

the yard, otherwise the canvas stand out to the force of the gale in a

surface as round as St. Paul’s dome, and so hard and tense that it would

serve as a platform for a ball-room.



in the whole-topsail day I have see half a dozen man stand upon the

canvas in the sling and quarter try to stamp the sail down to bring

the reef point within reach without so much as dinte the wind-swell

convexity. still it be possible to knot a reef-point, and take a look

round and below. it be a wonderful scene; no landsman can conceive of

its wild and awful majesty. the ship surge heavily through the black

heaving, and with every headlong plunge fill a wide circumference of

the far-down ebony water with a furious swirling of foam, in the midst

of which her long narrow shape be distinctly visible. Overhead be a dim

vision of naked spar and yard, reel in the boisterous void in whose

gloom it be just possible to trace the outline of huge black cloud

rush past like fold of swiftly-carry smoke. the yard on which you

stand be at an angle of thirty or thirty-five degree, and every

lean-down of the slender fabric that support the immense superstructure

of mast threaten to submerge the point of it, astride of which--ride

it as a horse--sit the seaman who take the lee-earing; and his figure

and that of the fellow beneath swinge on the flemish-horse, and those

of the row of man who overhang the yard, and who chorus with a kind of

shriek that ring athwart the yelling of the gale to the cry from the

weather yard-arm of “light over to windward!” be mark like

pen-and-ink drawing upon white paper against the snow of the sea which

stretch from the ship’s side into the darkness.



but this be only one aspect of “go aloft.” another--if the bowsprit

and jibboom may be include under the head of the word “aloft”--is that

of lay out to furl, let I say the outer jib, when it have come on to

blow hard enough to make the stowing of that sail necessary. from the

masthead you see the ship under you; you can watch her hull fly

through the sea, mark the glorious white of the foam that burst from

her bow and race in a broad band astern, and behold the ship in her

noble solitude amid the tenantless world of water whose pale green

skirt lean against the hazy azure of the remote heaven. but on the

jibboom you have the ship rush at you, as it be; her cutwater seem

to bear right down upon you; you see her copper forefoot gleam with

a greenish tinge through the glass-clear water whose surface it divide

into two feather-shape fountain, whose seethe and hiss and

prismatic summit arch away from the glossy bend. and now, as she dip

with a glorious rush into the hollow over whose yawning gloom you be

poise as you overhang the jibboom, the half-bury bow break the sea

into smoke, and yeast, and snow; the white and hiss mass, splendid

with sunshine or render more vivid yet by the dark green of the sea

along which it be send roll, roar and run ahead of the ship as far

as the fly jibboom, where its impetus fail and the soar vessel

swing over it, rise almost noiselessly over the thick froth, and in a

breath it be pass, whilst you look down along the slope deck from

the fork-up boom and mark how like a creature of instinct the noble

ship seem to be gather herself together for the next headlong jump,

her copper shine to windward, her black side lustrous as a curry

hide with the whirling spray, her lean mast full of thunder on high,

the white sail hard and still as carven marble, no sound reach you

but the regular wash of the spurned and trample water under the bow,

the rude and clear moaning of the wind in the rigging, and the

complaining of massive timber as the stem of the ship lengthen in a

steady upheaval, and then crush down until the torn and sob

billow of foam be flash their white feather over the head-board.

or jump aloft to loose, let we say, the mizzen royal after the tropical

squall have go away to leeward, and leave the clear moon shine in a

purify heaven of indigo, and strike a cone of silver glory in the

dark sea whose northern water be stud with flake of light from the

great star. it be the middle watch; you have overhaul your clewline,

the yard have be hoist over your head, you come down the topgallant

rigging into the crosstree, and linger there a few moment. all be

silent on deck; the helmsman stand motionless at the wheel; you hear

the faint jar of the tiller chain; you mark the delicate nimbus of

light round the binnacle hood. nowhere be the mystery work by the

magical beam of the moon feel so much as at sea. the pearl-like

radiance steep the fabric of the ship in an atmosphere of soft light as

illusive as the cloud of phosphorescent fire which break from her

side as she lean with the swell. the movement of the sail be like

the flapping of phantom wing; and not a sigh of air, not a sound of

chafing rope, not a voice call suddenly from the distant deck, but

seem to take from the moonlight and the measureless and impenetrable

space of the deep, and the immense and enfolding silence of those

far-off water, a character of unreality that make they seem the very

phantasm and mockery of the thing they veritably be.



a man might linger a long hour at the altitude of the crosstree among

the shadow of the moonlit, placid ocean night without weariness.

well than the lofty and loneliest cliff be the mast head of a ship

for the surveyal of the sublime and mighty surface on which she float,

for you rock in unison with the breathing of the deep; you be upon she

great heart, and every beat of it be mark by a stately motion of the

tower mast against the star; phosphoric outline of huge fish haunt

the sluggish wake; or a sound as of a long, deep-draw respiration

denote the neighbourhood of a leviathan whose vast proportion, as they

heave in the broad silver stream of moonlight, resemble the hull of a

ship keel up, drive to the surface by some hide power and slowly

settle downward again.



these be some of the excitement and some of the quiet pleasure of

“go aloft.” it be, no doubt, a highly sentimental view of the duty,

and sailor who have have to let go the reef point, and beat their hand

against the yard to drive life enough into their finger to enable they

to hold on, may consider that a very different representation of that

kind of work would recommend itself a good deal more than this to their

experience. very possibly. but retrospection be apt to make we tender;

and since “go aloft” must in the course of time--unless the

shipbuilder change their mind--become a thing of the past, it be worth

while spend a few minute in try to discover what there be of

poetry and the picturesque in that old obligation of the marine life in

the discharge of which the english sailor have always prove a shine

example to all mariner. even now--in these day when the steam-engine

have so eat into our maritime habit that a sailing-ship be look upon

as a kind of wonder of other time--do we not find Jack do honour to

his queen by stand erect upon the main truck? but, oh! master

mariner, mate, boatswain, and able seaman, all you who have

youngster under your charge or among you as shipmate, have mercy upon

the timid lad, give he time to feel his way aloft, show he the

lubber’s hole, and remember that many a first-rate sailor have falter

at the outset, and gaze with horror and despair at those giddy height

whose summit seem to his boyish gaze to pierce the sky.









_a TRICK at the wheel._





I remember a seaman, who have serve for year both in sailing and

steamship, tell I that never in all his life do he remember the

like of the impression produce upon he one night when he be at the

helm of a large ocean passenger steamer. he describe the darkness; the

occasional scattering of red spark blow low down upon the sea on the

lee beam; the glimmer of white water here and there out in the windy

gloom; the silence aboard the vessel, disturb only by the muffle

beating of the engine and the seething of water washing in snow from

under the bow; and he tell I how all these thing, combine with the

thought that under his foot there lie sleep a whole crowd of man and

woman, make he feel as though he and the ship and the great wind-sweep

shadow through which she be speed, be portion of a phantom world,

and that nothing be real and sentient but the compass, whose

illuminate card stand out upon the gloom like a composant at a ship’s

yard-arm.



I can conceive of many a strange, fanciful thought come into a

sailor’s mind as he stand grasp the wheel in the lonely night watch,

and I say this with a plentiful knowledge of the seaman’s prosaic and

unsentimental character. a man must be but a very short way remove from

a four-footed animal not to feel at time the wonderful and subdue

spell which the ocean will fling over the human soul; and be at the

wheel will give he the good chance of yield to the nameless

witchery, for at such a time--in most case--he be alone, no one accost

he, the gloom fall down and blot out the figure of the officer of the

watch, and complete the deep sense of solitude that be to be get from a

spell at the helm on a dark and quiet night at sea. I cannot but think

that the spirit of the deep be bring, at such a time, near to you

aboard a sailing than aboard a steamship. the onward-rush fabric that

be impel by engine demand incessant vigilance; she may be off her

course even in the time that a man take to lift his eye to mark a

fly meteor; there be no moment of rest. but in a sailing-ship you

have the moonlit night and burnish swell heaving up in line of ebony

out of the visionary horizon, where the star be wanly wink, until

it roll in billow of sparkle quicksilver under the wake of the bland

and beautiful luminary; there be not a breath of air aloft, though

little creeping of wind circle softly about the deck as the pallid

surface of canvas swing in and out with the leaning of the ship; the

moonlight lie in pool of light upon the plank, and every shadow cast

upon those pearl-like surface be as black and sharp and clear as a

trace in ink; the after portion of the sail be dark as bronze, but

look at they forward they rise into the air like piece of white

satin, soar into a stately edifice full of delicate hurrying shadow

which resemble the streaky lustre on the inside of an oyster-shell as

the cloth swell out or hollow in with the drowsy motion, and crown

with the little royal, which seem to melt even as the eye watch they

like summer cloud upon the heaven of star.



moment of such repose as this you will get in a sailing-ship. who that

have stand at the wheel at such a time but remember the soft patter of

reef-point upon the canvas, the frosty twinkling of the dew upon the

skylight and rail, the hollow sob of the swell under the counter as the

ship heave her stern, and the tiller-chain rattle, and the wheel jump

to the echo of the groan of the rudder-head? it be the middle watch;

eight bell be strike a quarter of an hour since; the watch on deck

be forward, coil away anywhere, and nothing stir on the forecastle;

the officer on duty walk the starboard side of the deck, for the yard

be brace to port, and that make a weather deck where the mate be

pacing, sleepily scratch the back of his head, and cast drowsy

glance aloft and at the sea. the moon be low in the west, and have

change her silver into copper, and will be go soon. the calm be

wonderfully express by the reflection she drop; the mirror radiance

stream towards you like a river of pallid gold, narrow at the horizon

and broaden, fan-shape, until it seem within a biscuit’s throw of

the ship, where it vanish in a fine haze; but on either hand of it the

water be as black as ink, while the lustre of the moon have quench the

star all about she, and leave the sky in which she hang as dark as the

ocean.



the set orb carry the mind with it. the eye will seek the light,

and it be a kind of instinct that make a man watch the sinking of the

moon at sea, when there be a deep repose in the air and nothing to

hinder his thought from follow the downward-sailing orb. many a time

have I watch she, and think of the old home she would be shine

upon; the love scene she would be make beautiful with her holy

light. there be nothing in life that give one such a sense of

distance, of infinite remoteness, as the setting of the sun or moon at

sea. it define the immeasurable league of water which separate you

from those you love with a sharpness that be scarcely feel at other

time. it be the only mark upon the circle of the ocean, and court you

into a reckoning which there be something too vague in the bare and

infinite horizon to invite. as one bell strike the moon rest her low

limb upon the horizon, and her reflection shorten away from the ship’s

side as the red fragment of disc sink behind the black water-line. in a

few second nothing but a speck of light that glow like a live ember be

visible; and when that be quench the faint saffron tinge that hung

about the sky when the moon be set die out and the whole

circumference of the ocean be full of the blackness of night.



the ship make but a ghostly shape. the star be there, but a haze

float like a veil under they; the diamond-dust that glitter in the

hollow cavern of the firmament be eclipse, and the planet be rayless

and sickly in their define and blueish-colour form. a fold of deep

darkness seem to have sweep along in the wake of the vanish moon, and

the officer of the watch come up to the binnacle take a brief look at

the card, and then go to the quarter and stand there softly

whistle, while the canvas aloft echo with a loud note, and the

rolling of the ship break the water under her counter into foam that

seethe sharply and expire quickly. black as the water be out on the

starboard bow you notice a shadow upon it that give a fresh shade, a

further profundity, to the jetty obscurity, and in a few moment the

sail aloft fall asleep as though the wand of a magician have be wave

over the sway spar and a soft air come blow over the rail.



“all aback forrard!” ring out a hoarse voice, and the cry find an

echo in the hollow canvas. the mate run along the deck bawl out

order to flatten in the head-sheet and square the after yard, and so

forth; the man come out of a dozen corner, coil of rigging be fling

down, song be raise, sheave squeal as the yard be swung, topsail

sheet rattle, and all be bustle and hurry. meanwhile the wind freshen

with a moan in the gathering gust, and the ship lean under it as her

headsail fill, and she pay off. presently the yard be braced round,

the vessel bring to her course, and the wind be find to be a point

free. the deck be still full of life, tack have to be board, “small

pull” be want here and there, and the run gear have to be coil

away; the light from the binnacle lamp puzzle your eye, and when you

lift your gaze from the illuminated card the darkness seem to stand

around you like a wall; but the compass be there to tell you that the

ship head her course. you would know with your eye blindfold, by the

mere feel of the helm, that everything be draw, and amidst the call

of the mate and the song of the sailor you can hear the sloppy sound

of flat fall of water under the weather bow, and the hiss of explode

bubble, and the faint wash of froth churn up by the rudder below you.



two bell be strike, and all be quiet once more. the skipper have be

on deck, talk with the mate, push his bronzed face betwixt you and

the binnacle, and after a few turn and several prolonged look aloft

and around the sea, have go below again. the wind have steadily

freshen, and the ship, under all plain sail, heel amid the darkness

like a lean column of white vapour. so softly she sweep through the

snow with which she girdle she shapely length, curtsey with queenly

grace as she run over the long-draw undulation out of whose inky

coil the wind be strike phosphoric spark, that she steer herself;

you have nothing to do but keep hold of the spoke, and let the breeze

blow the noble fabric along. the deep gloom be full of strange sound

now that the seaman be forward, and all be silent aft.



a spirit-like minstrelsy echo down from the glimmer incline

height like a far-off chorus of human voice; the wind be full of the

mysterious sound. it do not appear to come from the ship, but from a

group of invisible ghostly creature sail through the air over the

masthead, and set the moaning voice and sob wash of the ocean

to melody which may easily seem to make this darkness belong to the

night of a world people by phantom and creature without similitude in

human knowledge. Hark! how plaintive be the song of the bow-wave that

fall in an arch of green fire from the shearing stem, and roll aft in

a white swirl, interlace with fitful and sullen flash of phosphoric

light! but the breeze freshen yet; you cannot count a dozen star in

the void of gloom overhead, the music aloft take a clear note,

strain sound be audible as the pass swell roll the ship to

windward, the white water under the main sheet rise close to the

scupper and flash fast and far from under the counter into the

blackness over the stern. an order be sharply bawl out, and some hand

come tumbling aft and jump into the mizzen rigging to roll up the

cross-jack. a hoarse song reach you from the forecastle as the fly

jib downhaul be man, and at the same moment the fore and mizzen royal

halliard be let go. you hear this canvas flap in the gloom amid

the chorus of the man on the crossjack yard as they trice up the bunt.

there must be no more wool-gathering with you now. the wheel be give

you as much work as you want; every now and again a smart kick stiffen

your arm into iron, and you begin to feel that your jacket will have to

come off soon.



for some time nothing more be do, but the watch keep on their foot and

stand about ready for the next call, which they know will not be long

delay. the sea to windward be full of white glancing, and the

break head make a vague light of their own which give you a sight

of the water for some distance. the canvas that have be take off the

ship count for nothing; the main royal be still on she, and she be

heel over like a race yacht, strike the bow swell with a stem

that hiss like red-hot iron, and shatter the coil of liquid jet

into foam, which widen out on either hand of she into a storm of snow,

in the midst of which the fly hull of the vessel be as clearly trace

as be the shadow of her rigging in the moonlight, while her iron-hard

distend canvas be full of the low thunder of the pour blast, and

her forecastle be dark with fly spray that sweep over the rail and

strike the deck like a hail storm. it be noble sailing, and this

booming and hoot ocean night wind be something to be make the most of

while it last; but it give you at the wheel as much occupation as you

relish. it be like draw tooth to “meet she” as the swell sweep the

ship round; and at last the captain, who be again on deck, and who have

be stand at the binnacle for five minute, sing out for another

hand to come aft to the wheel. a figure tumble along in a hurry and

station himself to leeward of you; and thereupon your work, though it

be by no mean half as easy again, become considerably light than it

be. “hold on a minute, Bill,” say your mate, and he feel over his

pocket for a chew of tobacco. the quid find and properly stow away in

his cheek, your companion resume his grasp of the wheel, and in the

haze of the binnacle lamp you may see his leathern jaw work like an

old cow chew the cud as he mumble over the black fragment, sometimes

direct a doleful squint at the compass, sometimes look astern,

while he help you to put the wheel up or down, that you may keep the

course swinge fair with the lubber’s mark.



but the ship be be overdrive. at one bell it be a dead calm; it be

not three bell yet, and here be the sea white with wind, and the vessel

roar through the smother with the blast thunder like a hurricane

in the sail.



    “in main royal and mizzen topgallant sail.”



the canvas rattle like an old waggon over a stony street as the

clewline be man, and whilst furl it the foretopgallant halliard

be let go. what other sail be take in you do not know, for the ship

want much clever watching, and the skipper be at hand to bring you up

with a round turn if the vessel should be a quarter of a point off her

course. be ease, she steer more comfortably, but whole topsail and

course and main-topgallant sail be rush she through it fiercely;

the water on her lee quarter be pretty nearly as high as her main brace

bumpkin, and the billow there go along with she as if it be a part

of the vessel; the main tack groan under the tear and rend pull

of the huge convex surface of canvas; now and again the blow of the

swell which the race vessel hit laterally make her tremble fore and

aft like a house under a clap of thunder. but she be to have all she can

bear; the spell of dead calm be to be atone for; and so on through the

shrill and echo darkness rush the great fabric, sweep her

pallid canvas through the fold of gloom like the pinion of some vast

spirit of the deep, make the water roar past she as she go, break

the dark swell into fire and foam as she rush through the liquid

acclivity with her powerful stem, with note of mad laughter and

lamentable wail in her rigging, and with streaming deck which

hollowly echo the fall of the solid body of water which shoot up just

before the weather fore-rigging, and roll in a rush of cream white

into the lee scupper as far aft as the break of the poop.



at last you hear the welcome sound of four bell; your trick be up, the

wheel be relieve, and catch your jacket off the grating abaft the

helm you walk forward, wipe the perspiration from your forehead; and,

drop down the fore scuttle, grope about for your pipe, which you

light at the slush lamp that swing from a grimy beam, and return on

deck squat somewhere out of the way of the wind and wet, earnestly

hope that if it be to be a case of “reef topsail” there will be time

for you to have your smoke out before the order be thunder forth.









_the bailiff AT SEA._





some time ago I hear that a bailiff have be carry off to sea whilst

in the execution of his duty. anxious to learn the nature of his voyage,

how he fare, and what condition he be in, mentally and physically,

when restore to his anxious relative, I make inquiry, and my

diligence be at last reward by meet the mate of the vessel that

have sail away with the man. truth oblige I to own that this mate be

not what might be consider a very gentlemanly person. it be not his

velvet waistcoat, nor a rather vicious squint, nor a striking-look

bald head ring with a layer of red hair like a grummet of rope yarn;

the want of genteelness be noticeable in his abundant use of what be

call “langwidge.” “if I be a bailiff,” think I, as I glance at

his immense hand and huge arm which swell out his coat-sleeve like

the wind in a sailor’s smallcloth dry in a strong breeze on the

forestay, “I should not like to be put ‘in possession’ of a house

occupy by _you_, my hearty.”



I take a seat opposite he and say, “so you’re the mate of the vessel

that steal away the county court man?”



“right,” say he look at I, without a move in his face; “but don’t

you go and say that I’m the mate as give he up again. if I’d have my

way he’d be in charge o’ any good he might have come across in the

inside of a whale by this time. I’d ha’ chuck he overboard, as sure

as that there hand’s on this table,” and down come a very leg-of-mutton

of a fist with a blow that jerk his tumbler into the air. it be as

good as a hint that the glass want fill; and when this be do, my

companion open the top button of his warm and tight velvet waistcoat,

and compose himself into a posture for conversation.



“how,” ask I, “come your skipper to have a bailiff aboard his vessel?”



“you may ask how,” he growl; “what I say be, what right have he to

come? I’ve get nothing to say against the law as it work for they as

live ashore--for they as be in fix house, and cann’t sail away with

any bloom old rag of a chap, in a greasy coat, as come in with a bit

of paper, and take a cheer, and say, ‘here I sit, mate, till I’m pay

off.’ but what have the like of such scowbank get to do with sailor man

when once they’re aboard? what I say be, that when a man’s on the water,

his chest stow away, article sign, all the law that consarn he be

in the cabin. the capt’n’s the law; and not only the law, but judge,

magistrate, bailiff, husher, registrar, high chancellor, and Lord Mayor

o’ London on top of it; and my argument be that any man as take the

liberty to walk over a wessel’s side and order the captain about, and

sing out contrairy order, and threaten to have he purge (I hear that

very word. ‘Ye’ll have to purge for this,’ say the bailiff. do ye ever

hear such language apply to a captain?)--any man, I say, as take such

a liberty as that ought to be drop overboard without ask ‘by your

leave,’ and, as I say before, leave to take possession of any good he

come across in the inside of a fish or at the bottom of the ocean.”



I wait until he have partially quench his excitement by a long pull

at his tumbler, and then ask he again how it happen that his vessel

have be board by a bailiff.



“I’ll tell you,” he answer. “the wessel be a brig of 300 ton. come

home she plump into a schooner. it be the schooner’s fault; we sing

out to she to get out of the road; instead of do which she port she

helm as if to provoke we, and in we go, do she a deal of damage and

carry away our own jibboom. well, we arrive in port and discharge,

and then fill up again with coal. it be toosday afternoon, the sky

middle dirty, and a fresh breeze of wind blow. we haul out and

lie at a mooring buoy, wait for the tide to serve. I be talk to

the captain when I take notice of a boat come along, row by a couple

o’ waterman, and a chap in a chimbley-pot hat sit in the starn

sheet.



“‘be that boat for we?’ say the captain, look.



“‘why,’ I say, ‘it look as if she mean to run we down. be it a wager?

bust I if hever I see waterman pull like that afore!’



“they be drag on their oar as if they would spring ’em, lie

back until nothing but their nose be to be see above the gunwale, and

make the water fly in cloud over the cove in the starn as if prompt

drowning be too good for he, and he be to be smother slow. they

dash alongside, hook on, and the fellow in the chimbley-pot hat

come scrape over the rail, shake himself free o’ the water as he

tumble on to the deck like a Newfoundland dog.



“‘just in time, captain,’ say he, with an impudent kind o’ smile,

rummage in his side-pocket; and with that he hout with a sort of

dockiment, and hand it to the skipper.



“‘what’s this?’ say the skipper, smell round the paper as it might

be, but never offer to touch it.



“‘only a horder for you to return to the bosom of your family,’ he say,

‘as the date o’ your sailing’s not yet fix.’



“‘ben’t it?’ say the captain, breathe short. ‘who be you, and what

d’ye want?’



“‘I’m a bailiff,’ say the man; ‘and I’m here to take charge o’ this

wessel, pende the haction that’s be enter against she in the

Hadmiralty side o’ the County Court by the schooner as ye be in

collision with.’



“‘can ye swim?’ ask the captain.



“‘never you mind whether I can or not,’ say the bailiff, look round

at we, for all hand be collect and listen their hard.



“‘because,’ say the captain, ‘if you cann’t swim you’d well turn to

and hail that boat to come back again and put ye ashore.’



“‘no, no,’ say the bailiff, ‘I’m not go ashore, my friend. I’m here

to take charge o’ this brig and stop she from go to sea.’



“have the captain choose then and there to give order for that bailiff

to be drop overboard, I believe I’m the man as would have execute

the command. take the temper I be then in, I don’t know anything that

would ha’ give I more satisfaction to perform. the aggravation of

be stop when we be all ready to get away be the least part of

it: it be the bailiff’s cool grin, the impudence in his eye as he

look round, as much as to say, ‘all what I see be mine,’ his take

the skipper’s place and say ye shan’t do this, and I willn’t allow

that, that make I want to lay hand upon he. the captain stare at he

a bit, as if consider what he should do; then turn to I, he ask

I the time. I tell he.



“‘in another quarter of an hour,’ say he, ‘loose the torpsail and make

ready to get away.’



“‘you’d well not,’ say the bailiff; ‘it’ll be gross contempt of court

if you do.’



“‘Court!’ say the skipper, ‘Court! there be no court here, Mr. Bailiff.

this be a brig, not a court. don’t talk of court to I. the gross

contempt be of your committing. how dare you stand there order of

I?’



“‘rest assure,’ say the bailiff, ‘you’ll be punish if you don’t do

what I say. you’ll have to purge in open court, and that’s a job that

may cost ye enough to lay you up in the union for the rest of your

natural day.’



“‘stow that,’ say I, double up my fist and step close to the

fellow; ‘if the captain stand that kind o’ jaw, _i_ willn’t.’



“‘I’m here in the hexecution of my duty,’ say the bailiff, drop his

confident grin, and begin to grow whitish. ‘whatever you do

contrairy to my order you’ll do at your peril.’



“and so say he walk right aft, and sit on the taffrail with his

arm fold.



“never be any quarter of an hour long than that which the captain

tell I to wait. I have my watch in my hand, and all the time I be

afraid the skipper would change his mind and give in to the bailiff, who

sit aft with his hat over his ear, look at the shore with his little

eye.



“‘time’s up, sir!’ I bawl to the captain.



“‘loose the torpsail,’ he sing out, and in a moment all hand be

run about, sheet home, and yell out at the rope, be as

much afeard as I be that if we be not quick the sight of the dog

bailiff ’ud operate upon the skipper’s hintellect and stop our just

rewenge upon that funkshonary’s audacity. the bailiff see the man at

work, tumble off the taffrail and comes run forrard.



“‘D’ye mean to say you don’t intend to obey the law?’ he shout out,

hold on to his chimbley-pot.



“‘out of the way!’ answer the skipper, ‘there’s no room for law here.

we’re full up, mate; and since ye’re bind for a voyage, blow your nose

and wave your hand to they as ye’re a parting from!’ and, as he say

this, the wessel, catch the wind that be come strong enough to

make nothing above our topsail necessary, lay down to it, and we head

for the open water.



“I see the bailiff stare wildly around he, as if he really _would_

jump overboard, and it be worth a month’s pay to see he look like

that, and hold his hat on.



“‘why, man,’ he shout to the captain, ‘you’re never in earnest: d’ye

know what you’re a doing of?’ and, find that the skipper take no

notice, he call out to the man, ‘you’ll work this vessel at your peril

if you obey your captain. my order be to stop this brig, and if you

don’t allow I to execute my duty----’ but just as he come to this the

wessel meet the first of the sea which be roll outside the

harbour--stiff sea they wo, for it be blow half a gale o’ wind;

she put her nose into it, and then roll over, fit to bring she low

yardarm into the water; away fly the bailiff’s chimbley-pot hat clean

overboard, and ye may boil I alive if I don’t think he mean to follow

it; for the send o’ the wessel trip he over the weather hatch

coaming, and he seem to shoot--ay, as neatly as if he’d be kick

by one of they giant I use to read about when I be a little

’un--clean into the lee scupper, where he lie stunned as I think,

until all on a sudden he jump up and go claw along till he come

to the lee o’ the after deck house, where he squat down, look with

his yaller face and blow hair like a Madagascar monkey recover

from a fit of intoxication.”



here my companion break into a loud laugh, which he repeat again and

again, as if the thought awaken in his mind be of too exquisite a

kind to be dismiss with a single guffaw.



“I don’t know,” he continue, after a bit, wipe his eye, and then

fix his dismal and malignant squint upon I, “whether on the whole we

should ha’ do well by drop he overboard. the brig be as deep

as pretty nigh twice her tonnage in coal could make she; she be a wet

boat at any time; but now she tumble about as if she have make up her

mind to drown herself. I reckon she know she have a bailiff aboard. every

dip forrard throw the water over her head in ocean; she’d roll to

wind’ard almost as heavily as to leeward, so that the deck be all

awash, and I be look and hope all the time to see the bailiff

fetch away. but there be enough law leave in he to keep he hold on.

I be stand to wind’ard of the house--the skipper be aft agin the

wheel--when Mr. Bailiff come staggering round, his breech cling to

his leg like wet brown paper, and his shoe full o’ water.



“‘hallo, shipmate!’ I sing out, see he make for the cabin door,

‘where be you bind to? ben’t you happy where you be?’



“‘I’m go to lie down on one of the locker,’ say he. ‘I feel half

froze, and I shall be sick presently.’



“‘you may be half froze and sick too,’ say I, ‘but smother I, Mr.

Bailiff, if you shall use the cabin.’



“‘not use the cabin?’ say he, gape at I, and talk as if there be

something in his swaller; ‘d’ye mean to keep I on deck all night?’



“‘don’t ask no question,’ say I. ‘you’re here by french leave. nobody

want you. if I have my way you’d be tow astern, with your neck in a

bowline; and if all the rest o’ your tribe and the blooming ’tornie you

sarve be tail on in your wake, I’d be willing to woyage round the

world, and never grumble if we take year in reach home.’



“I be in a passion, which rise my woice, and the skipper, hear I,

come over.



“‘Hallo, bailiff!’ say he, cheerfully; ‘not drown yet, my lad? what

d’ye think o’ the weather?’



“‘captain,’ say the man, ‘you’ve carry I away by force. D’ye mean to

freeze I to death by keep I on deck all night? your mate here say

I’m not to use the cabin.’



“‘why should he use it, capt’n?’ say I. ‘could a sailor man sit with

the like of he? I’ve mess afore now with chaneyman; I’ve sleep along

with peruvian beachcomber when the air’s be that thick with the smell

of onion ye might have leant agin it; but ye may boil I, skipper,’

say I, ‘if ever I occupy a cabin along with a bailiff afore, and if

he’s to share that crib along with we, I’ll sleep forrard.’



“‘you hear that, bailiff,’ say the skipper. ‘I cann’t let my mate live

forrard to oblige you. if you’re cold I dare say the cook ’ll let you

warm yourself in the galley. but nobody want you here. you be not

invite, consequently it’s not for you to grumble if you don’t find

yourself perfectly comfortable and happy.’



“but as he say this, Nature fall to manhandle the bailiff as if she’d

take his own trade upon herself, and make one rush he lie over the

lee rail so ill that I never see the equal of it, even in a Frenchman;

he twist himself about just as if he’d be revolve on a corkscrew;

the water blow over the forward weather rail hit he neatly, and he

be like a stream rag in five minute.



“we leave he enjoy himself and go on with our work. it be fall

dark, and not only blow hard, but there be the look of a whole gale

of wind in the south-west sky. the brig be make desperate bad weather

of it under low torpsail and reef foresail, take in the water fit

to wash every movable thing overboard, and shove through it very

slowly with a surprising sag to leeward. the skipper go below for some

supper, and after a bit he call I in.



“‘where’s the bailiff?’ say he.



“‘don’t know exactly,’ I say. ‘to leeward somewhere. there’s a figure

half over the rail just abaft the fore rigging, if that’s he.’



“‘I’ve be tarne it over in my mind,’ say the skipper, ‘and I’ve get

a notion, William,’ say he, ‘that we’d ha’ do well not to bring

that bailiff along with we.’



“‘but he wouldn’t go ashore when you tell he,’ say I.



“‘quite true,’ say the captain; ‘but that willn’t make it well for we.

after all, the law’s not a thing ye can take liberty with, and there’s

something in his threat of make I purge in open court, William,’ say

he, ‘which mightn’t matter if I know what it mean; but, be ignorant,

I’m willing to think it alarm.’



“‘Pooh,’ say I, ‘it’s only a lawyer’s word. there’s nothing in it.

they use onintelligible word to scare plain man; but there cann’t be

anything more terrifying in language ye don’t understand than in

language ye do.’



“‘I wish I have some book aboard that ’ud explain that word,’ say he.

‘the bailiff’ll know; but I’ll not ask he for fear he should think I

afraid. but we cann’t let he starve. well send he here and let he

get something to eat.’



“I be go to argue, but he wouldn’t listen.



“‘no, no,’ say he, ‘send he here;’ and I know by that that the fear o’

the law be begin to master he.



“well, it be my duty to obey, so I go on deck, and after rummage

about I find the bailiff sit up to his hip in water against the

scuttle-butt abreast of the galley.



“‘come along,’ say I, ‘supper’s in the cabin, and the captain want you

there.’



“he stand up, but be so cramped in his timber that he could scarcely

shuffle along, and I have to drag he by the collar. when the captain see

by the lamplight the plight the fellow be in, his heart fail he

altogether. there be no more proper dignified scorn.



“‘why,’ say he, look at he, ‘I don’t think it be such a bad job

as that,’ and he jump up and fetch he a suit of dry clothe, and

then pour out a dose of brandy. this be regular knuckling under. he

have go on con-sidering and con-sidering until he be in an out-and-out

funk. there be no use in my say anything. the bailiff have growd on a

sudden to become the strong man aboard that brig, though as for I,

when I tell you that have I be the captain I’d have send the fellow

aloft, and keep he there all night, as a hint to leave sailor man

alone on future occasion, ye’ll allow that _my_ caving in wur only

because I ben’t skipper, and that’s all. well, sir, to cut this yarn

short, luck turn in favour of that bailiff with a wengeance. at

midnight it be blow a hurricane, and the skipper say there be no

good go on face it, he must put back.



“‘there’s a handy port,’ say I, name it, ‘than the one we’re from

to make for.’



“‘ay,’ say he, ‘but since we’re bind to up keeleg it’ll look well to

carry the bailiff slick home than to give he a railway journey.’



“it would have make a hangel growl to hear the captain, all through

fear, place this bailiff afore the werry hurricane that be blow,

and think of he only whom he’d ha’ gladly drownde a few hour

early, instead of the wessel and the life aboard she. but reasoning

be out of the question. the brig be just a smother of froth, the gale

roaring like thunder, the sea as high as our maintop, and the old

hooker shiver with every upward heave, as if she must leave all the

low part of she behind she. it be a job to get the vessel round, but

we manage it, and at half-past five o’clock in the morning we fetch

the harbour we have start from and bring up, nothing having carry

away but the bailiff’s chimbley-pot.”



“and what be the result of all this?” say I.



“why,” say he, with a loud rumble laugh, “the skipper have to find out

what purging in hopen court mean. he be bring up afore an old

gentleman, who lecture he for about half an hour, say that the law

be mean to be respect and that it would be a bad job for any man as

sneer at it; and after having talk out all that lay in his mind, he

up and fine the captain ten pound and fifty shilling cost. it

serve he right. he’d no business to bring that bailiff back. but he

be hoperate on by the fear o’ word, and depend upon it the man who

allow that sort of alarm to wisit he be not a fit person to carry a

bailiff to sea.”









_off the HORN._





the passage of the Horn have long cease to be a thing to boast about.

Time be when a man who have double that formidable iron headland

reckon he have perform a feat that entitle he to a good deal of

respect. this be characteristically show in “two year before the

Mast,” the author of which dwell at great length upon the struggle of

the _Alert_ among the ice in latitude 58 deg. South, as though he

consider that part of the voyage to be something proper to hand on to

posterity in a bulky form. not so much notice be take of the

achievement nowadays. it still confer privilege; it qualify a man to

“spit to windward,” for instance, and no doubt it inspire many a

youthful midshipman or apprentice with much big talk and nautical air

in the presence of lad who have yet to see with their own eye what an

antarctic iceberg be like.



but the passage of the Horn be much too common an occurrence in these

day to inflate anything but a boy. in Dana’s time a ship be a

wonderful object down there; it seem almost a deserted ocean; nothing

be to be meet but an old “spouter” jogging along with stump

topgallant-mast, and her side full of boat; or a cargo-ship, with a

freight of “notion,” bind to the peruvian or mexican port. now, if it

be not so full as the Atlantic, it be pretty nearly as busy; for since

those day Australia have grow a mighty and populous continent; town

have spring up as if by magic along the western seaboard of the

Americas; even the little remote South Sea Islands have lend a hand in

the thronging of the great Cape Horn highway; and the most desolate,

sterile region in the world--such a harsh, forbidding, icebound piece of

coast as no man who have pass within sight of it can ever forget--be

skirt, week after week and year after year, by score and score of

great steamer and sailing ship, bind west, and east, and north, if

never south. the Panama Canal threaten the famous old route; and should

that waterway ever be complete, the Horn will probably fall even more

out of date than the Cape of Good Hope have. it be not to be expect,

however, that even the most ancient mariner will be find to mourn over

the desuetude. there be many uncomfortable spot to be encounter in a

voyage round the world; but a turn off the Horn, in the month which we

call summer here, probably beat anything in the shape of marine

discomfort to be find on the ocean. of course this be speak of it

as sailor find it--as it be experience by the man who have to remain

on deck, go aloft, stand at the wheel, and whose shelter be a forecastle

with the scuttle close, and not a dry stitch of clothe to be find by

groping.



for it be off the Horn where the galley-fire get wash out, and where,

therefore, the streaming and hungry watch below have nothing to eat but

what they may find in the bread-barge; where the tear freeze in a man’s

eye fast than the most pity angel of a woman live could wipe

they away; where one be glad to keep one’s sea-boot on for fear that

one’s toe may go as well as the boot when they be haul off; where

everything be like sheet and bar iron aloft; where the very cockroach

turn in to wait for the Equator, and the hardy rat be so put to it

with frost that they watch in the gloom until a man go to bed and

fall asleep, in the hope of get a meal off his nose. unhappily the

Horn do not improve. it blow and snow as hard there now as it do

when the old _wager_ round it, and when Drake or Anson be roll

among its stupendous comber. other place be more tractable. for

instance, Dana, twenty-four year after he make his memorable voyage,

find that the climate off Point Conception have alter, that the

south-easter be no long the curse of the coast, and that vessel

anchor inside at Santa Barbaro and San Pedro all the year round. no

one could have tell he this of the Horn. have he choose to beat to the

eastward or westward a second time in the month when the attempt be

make by the _Pilgrim_ and the _alert_ he would have find the same

blind snow-storm, the same hurling sea, the same sunless,

melancholy sky, the same plunging, washing, strain, roar

tumblification he record forty-two year ago. let the story of a brig

of 300 ton’ register bear witness to this.



it be in the month of May that the vessel in question be bind to

Callao with a cargo of coal, but a strong north-westerly gale have drive

her much far to the southward than the captain have any desire to

find himself. the gale leave they on a Wednesday morning, roll their

yardarm into it on a real Cape Horn swell. what be there to which to

liken these prodigious heaving? the actual altitude of those liquid

hill may seem small in comparison with the appearance they present when

view from their hollow; but whatever may be their height, to lie

dipping and wallow among they in a vessel of the tonnage of that

brig be to undergo an experience hardly less formidable than what be

devise by the Mohocks, when they shut up old woman in empty cask, and

send they spin down Ludgate Hill. what strain and groan and

complain of the torture fabric, if it be of timber! every beam,

carling, tree-nail, transom, knee, stanchion, and futtock lift up its

dismal creaking and wail voice as the bewildered craft, with she

topsail rattle in the motionless atmosphere, be swing like a pendulum

up the shoulder of the swell mass of green water, lean down as she

go until she be fairly on her beam-end, with pot and pannikin,

sea-boot and sea-chest, dish, book, furniture, and whatever else

may be inside of she, fetch away with dreadful noise to leeward, amid

a volley of sea-blessing from skipper, cook, and steward, and muffle

shout from the watch below in the forecastle.



luckily Cape Horn calm do not last very long; indeed, there be nothing

but “weather” down in those region, and a calm be only a short pause

among the gale and squall whilst they be consider whose turn it be

next. within an hour from the time of the first gale fail they,

another gale from a little to the north-of-west be bow down the

bother and beat brig, which, under low topsail and fore-topmast

staysail, manfully struggle to look up to it with her head in the

direction of Cape Horn and her wake stream away over her weather

quarter. it be one of those picture of storm which be rarely see in

like perfection out of the parallel that divide Terra del Fuego from

the South Shetlands--an ocean of mountainous sea, raise each of they

a note of thunder as their arching summit crash from a dark,

oil-smooth ridge of green water into huge avalanche of snow: a sky of

gloomy slate, along which masse of scud--tear, ragged, and

tendril-shape--be fly with incredible velocity. the horizon be

break with the incessant rising and fall of the pyramidal billow,

dark as the night, against a ring of sooty cloud, from which, ever and

anon, one would break away, like a wing messenger of evil, whiten

and veil the air with a kind of boil appearance as it sweep its

furious and blinding discharge of snow and hail along. no wonder that in

olden time the man who have pass these tempestuous and inclement sea

should have consider himself an object of importance. stand, in fancy,

upon the deck of that labour brig, and survey one of the countless

aspect of marine life. the sea be break heavily over the port bow

of the vessel, deluge she forward and race aft in a foaming torrent

as she sink her stern to mount the huge surge that almost lay she

yardarm level. the bitter, raw, flay cold of the wind there be

nothing in language to express. the fly spray smite the exposed face

like a volley of sail needle. now and again a squall of snow and hail

come along with so much fury in it that it take the breath away from

the strong of the seaman cower with their back to it. the rigging

crackle to every strain put upon it like burn wood. the snow upon

the yard make they glimmer like line of pallid light as they

furiously sway against the dismal ground of the dark and rush sky.

there be spear and arrow-head of ice upon the bulwark rail, upon the

cathead, upon the scuttle-butts lash amidship; and though the sea

repeatedly break over they they be always leave stand. the helmsman,

with his hard fist wrap up in mit, rig out in oilskin from his

head to his huge, well-grease sea-boot, and with the after-thatch of

his sou’-wester blow up by the gale, and stand out from his head

like the tail of a gull, get the full of it. nothing of the man be

visible but a fragment of mahogany face show between the flannel

ear-cover of his head-gear, and a pair of water eye, which he now

and again wipe upon his mit when a pause in the yaw and come-to’s give

he a chance to raise one of his hand from the spoke.



how would some of our summer-water mariner appear beside that

salt-water sailor be they to have stand their trick at the helm on

such an occasion as this; gaze to windward as yonder skipper be do,

hold on like grim death to a backstay, with the salt dry in

crystal in his eye; or make one of that oil-skin group there to

leeward of the galley, stamp their boot upon the deck to put life

into their frozen toe, duck as a shriek in the wind warn they of

the passage of a green sheet of water over their head, bite doggedly

upon the tobacco in their cheek, and growl as they reflect that

another three hour must elapse before they be privileged to quit the

deck and take such warmth and comfort as they may find in the

forecastle, whose darkness be scarcely reveal by the sputtering

slush-lamp, and whose beam and stanchion be decorate with drain

clothe?



it be already blow two or three ordinary gale in one, and the low

topsail be more than the brig could safely stagger under, though the

captain hold on, since by ratche to the northward he might hope to get

clear of the ice, of which, on the previous night and that morning, some

monstrous specimen have heave in view. indeed, at one bell in the

afternoon watch, during a flaw in a heavy squall of snow that be

blow in horizontal line along the sea, they catch sight on the lee

bow of the greenish marble-like glimmer of a berg that look to be a

mile long and as tall as St. Paul’s Cathedral. it vanish, but

reappear broad on the lee-beam when the squall pass, and stand out

in its complete shape against the smoke-colour gloom of the sky over

the horizon, where, though it be four or five mile off, the man on the

brig’s deck could see the white, steam-like haze of the spray that

flash in cloud from its base, and flee past it in eddying volume,

and almost imagine that they hear the thunder of the smiting surge

reverberate in the hollow and cavern of the mighty frozen mass. but

when it have draw on the lee-quarter another squall blow up and

smother it, and after that it disappear entirely.



it be at this time that the gale increase in fury, and the sea grow

terrible. the weather be enough to blow the mast out of the vessel,

and all hand be turn up to stow both topsail and bring the brig to

the wind under a small storm staysail. how be the aspect of that Cape

Horn ocean to be described?--the rage of its headlong acclivity; the

long sweep of olive-green height, piebald with hiss and seethe

track of foam, blow along their gleam side; the hard iron-grey of

the heavens, out of which the storm of wind be rush, bear upon

its wing masse of vapour, which it tear to piece in its fury; and the

cold--the pierce, poignant cold--of the gale, with its lash burden

of sleet and spray and hail?



the man have come off the yard after having struggle, each watch of

they, for hard upon three-quarter of an hour with the frozen topsail,

when the brig ship a sea just abaft the weather fore rigging. it be

a whole mountain of green water, and it fall in a dead weight of score

of ton upon the deck, beat for awhile the whole life out of the

devoted vessel, and make she pause, trembling and stun, in the

roar hollow in which it have find she, whilst above the thunder of

the dreadful stroke could be hear the crash of break wood, of

splinter glass, and the rend noise of deck furniture tear from its

strong fastening. a heavy upward send drive the water off the deck,

and all hand be find to be alive, hold on like grim death to

whatever be next they; and then it be see that a long range of the

weather-bulwark have be tear down flush with the deck, the cabin

skylight break into shiver, the long boat amidship stove, and nothing

leave of the port-quarter boat but the frame of its keel and stem,

dangle at the davit. the loss of the two boat be a bad job, but

still bad be the terrible strain the deeply freight vessel have

undergo, and the destruction of the skylight that leave the cabin open

for the flood of water that roll along the deck. the benumbed and

half-frozen crew turn to to secure what remain of the skylight and

to cover it with tarpaulin; but whilst they be in the midst of this

work the brig give a heavy lurch, which make the man believe it be all

over with she; and before a single cry could have be raise, a portion

of the weather fore rigging carry away, and in a trice the

fore-topmast break off at the cap, and fall over the side--a horrible

muddle--with all its raffle of sail, yard, and gear.



the early antarctic night be now draw down over the furious sea, and

it be already so dark that the man could hardly discern one another’s

face. some active fellow spring forward at the risk of their life to

cut away the rigging, and release the wreck alongside before the yard

upon it should pierce the brig’s bottom; and this be do, the helm

be put hard up, with the idea of wear ship, in order to secure the

foremast. but the storm-fiend have mark this unhappy brig, and the

successive blow come thick and fast. Scarcely be the wrecked spar send

adrift and the helm shift, when all the rest of the port fore rigging

carry away, and the foremast fall down, carry with it the bowsprit,

main topmast, and a portion of the port main rigging.



by this time it be as dark as the bottom of a well; the brig wallow

before the sea with a mass of wreckage over her side, pitch

miserably in the fearful hollow, and huge surge curl their white

height around she. a man have need to be a seaman indeed, and to have a

seaman’s heart in he too, to act at all in such a moment as this. the

full extent of the mischief could not be guess. nothing be certain

but that the brig be dispossess of all but her mainmast, and that

there be some heavy spar over the side, pound at she like

batter-ram with every hurl of the rage sea. the first business

would be to get clear of this mischief, and the man go to work with

their knife, feel for the lanyard and hack and cut with a

will. darkness give a peculiar horror to disaster of this kind at sea.

in the daylight you can see what have happen; you can use your eye as

well as your hand and make despatch, and the bad be evident. but the

darkness leave everything to be guess at. you shout for help for some

job too heavy for you, and it do not come. the outline of the sea

grow colossal by the illusion of the faint light throw out from their

break crest; you cannot perceive the fly water so as to duck away

from it, and in a breath you may find yourself overboard. it be all

distraction and uproar, loud and fearful shouting, and blind groping.

when at last the wreck be clear, the vessel seem little well than

a sheer hulk, nothing stand but her mainmast, upon which the

mainyard swing helplessly. that she should have live through that long

and fearful antarctic night, the sea comb over she, iceberg in her

vicinity, and drain in water with every roll, must count among the

miracle of the deep. her people have discover that the mainmast,

have little to support it, have work loose, break away the

mast-combing, and start the planking all around it; so that through

this large aperture the water pour into the hold in torrent. the port

pump have be disable by the fall of the mast, and the only other pump

be man and work with such energy as die man will put into their

arm; but in less than an hour the coal choke it, and now nothing

remain but to lighten the vessel by throw the cargo overboard and

bale with bucket. all through those black and howl hour, amid

freezing fall of water, and in the heart of the rage Cape Horn storm,

this severe labour be pursue, so that when the bleak and melancholy

dawn break upon the desolate ocean it find the brig still afloat, and

the brave heart in her grimly fight death, though faint, famished,

and frozen. Help come shortly before noon. a sail be make out head

dead for the wreck, and by the time she be abreast, the wind and sea

have so far moderate as to enable she to bring all the man safely off.

it be not a moment too soon, for twenty minute after the crew have be

transfer to the ship the brig be observe to give a heavy lurch, and

so lie on her beam-end, never right, but slowly sink in that

position--so slowly that after her hull have vanish her mainmast

remained fork out like the lift arm of a drown man.



when this story be tell I I could not help think of what the Horn

route be in Dana’s time, and the very small chance that brig’s crew

would have have for their life have her name be the _Pilgrim_, and have

she be beat to the westward forty year ago. certain it be, that

however ship may come and go, and change the nature of their material

and the form of their fabric, the weather in the Pacific down there be

very much what it be in Anson’s time, and as it have be, in all

probability, since the creation of the world. other climate may vary in

the lapse of age, and south-easter may in place be find to work

themselves into north-wester. but the Horn remain always the same

harsh, tempestuous, frozen headland, echo at this hour the hurricane

note which reverberate over it century ago, and grimly overlook

the stormy space of water in the world. who, then, do not hope

that the final construction of the Panama Canal may abridge the bleak

and icebound horror of that point of continent which look on the chart

to stretch its league and league of tongue into the very heart of the

southern frozen water? to be sure, the passage of the famous cape have

long since cease to be a wonder; but none the less be it full of peril

to vessel which, like the brig I have write about, be at the mercy

of the monstrous sea and furious gale of that formidable tract of

Pacific water.









_a strange chase._





one be sorry to hear of the growth of the very un-english habit of

sheer off and scuttle away after a collision. the first duty of a

shipmaster who plump into a vessel or be run into be to stand by, if

the condition of his ship will permit he, and render all the assistance

in his power. there be nothing more despicable and cowardly than run

away after a disaster of this kind. we know what come of such conduct in

the case of the _northfleet_; and week after week one read in the

shipping paper how such and such a vessel be run into, and how the

other ship make off, and how so many people be drown in consequence.

Darkness, that be fruitful of collision, be also, unhappily, favourable

to these mean and unmanly escape. at night it mostly happen that the

utmost you can tell of the vessel that comes grind into your ship be

that she be big or little, a steamer or a sailing-vessel, and rig in

such and such a fashion. the letter on her nameboard cannot be

decipher; she will not answer your hail; and her reply to the

melancholy shout of “for God’s sake don’t leave we, we believe we be

sink,” be to shift her helm and vanish in the gloom. the obligation

to record such casualty in the log-book or to depone to they before

receiver of wreck do not, it be to be fear, always imply the sort

of accuracy that would be useful to sufferer. from time to time a buoy

be sink, a lightship run into, and the Trinity Corporation offer a

handsome sum of money for information, but without avail. the absence of

all reference by shipmate to such occurrence must make one hope that

they be mainly the work of foreigner. but whatever the flag under

which a captain sail, his sneak away from a disaster in which he have

have a hand express a species of cowardice that press heavily upon

the humbler order of shipowner. a little coaster be run into by a fine

large vessel, which stop a minute or two and then proceed. the master

of the coaster may be her owner, and all that he have in the world be in

his little ship. she be not sink, but her mast be over the side, and

she look as if she have be for some hour under the gun of a fort.

whether or not the master be to blame for the collision, he be pretty

sure to consider that the fault be not his; and his hardship be, that

whilst he stand a chance of be ruin, he be unable to discover the

name of the ship that run into he, so as to be able to bring her owner

into a court of justice, and take his risk as a litigant.



I be amuse and interest some time since by hear the story of the

resolute behaviour of Mr. John Whitear, master of the schooner _Jehu_, a

vessel of about 150 ton. give chase, if you can, be one way, at

least, of clear up the mystery of the paternity of an offend ship

that sneak off in the darkness in the hope of save her owner’s

pocket. any way, Mr. John Whitear’s conduct illustrate a spirit

pleasant to come across in the homely prosaic of the marine life of

to-day. eighty and a hundred year ago it be man of the stamp of Mr.

Whitear who command british privateer; otherwise how should the

maritime memorial of that kind of vessel be so full as they be of the

unflinche obstinacy and the grim courage which follow the flee

enemy over league and league of ocean, through storm and through

calm, finally overhaul and board the breathless chase in

latitude so remote from the point of departure that the span between

the two place might even now be reckon a long voyage?



not very many day ago, then, the _Jehu_, with 230 ton of coal aboard,

be quietly jog along on her way to her port of destination. the

afternoon have be fine, and the night come down very clear and bright,

with starlight. the water be smooth, though a merry wind be blow,

and the little vessel under easy canvas lie softly lean in the gloom,

with the white water rippling and crisping past her side in a hollow,

brass-like tinkling. Starlight give beauty even to a coalman; and I

have know stump topgallant-mast and sail yawn upon sheet hard

upon a fathom from the point in the yardarm through which they lead,

make as dream-like and dainty a picture in the tender sobering shadow

of the night as the tall and taper rig of the handsome yacht now

afloat.



at all event, the _Jehu_ be Mr. John Whitear’s sea-home, and as he

pace the weather side of the deck, sometimes squint into the

windward darkness where the loom of the land hang low upon the vague

greyish softness of the water that way, or sometimes aloft where the

star, like so many benign and encourage eye, be tip he

cheerful wink through the black square in the shroud and over the

main gaff and among the dim tracery of the stand and run rigging,

whose height seem to bring near the sweeping enfoldment of the

glittering heaven, as though the vast star-laden shadow be revolve

and be weave its circling burden of gloom close and close yet

round the lonely schooner journeying slowly along with a bell-like

resonance of broken water around she, he be no doubt as well satisfy

with his little hooker as the captain of an ocean steamer could be with

his stately ship.



his pipe be smoke out, the weather look as steady as a church,

and all be well in every possible sense of that marine expression,

Mr. John Whitear think that no harm could come of his go below for

a spell to take some rest. accordingly, after exchange a few word

with his mate, and take another good look to windward and then aloft,

he walk to the companion and disappear down the step. but instead

of go to bed like a landsman, he keep on his boot and his coat,

merely remove his cap as a preliminary to turn in, and stretch

himself upon a locker, within easy hearing of the first shout that

should come down through the companion, he close his eye, and be

presently contribute to the other creaking sound raise in the plain

and quaint little cabin by the occasional movement of the _Jehu_.



how it come about he could not say, not having be on deck at the time;

but whilst he lie dream such peaceful dream as should visit a master

mariner whose whole professional life be dedicate to the careful

attention of the three L’s, he be suddenly arouse, and in some measure

startle, by a loud and fearful cry in the companion of “below, there!

here’s a barque run into we.”



fortunately, Mr. Whitear have no occasion to stay to dress himself; in a

breath he be up the ladder and on deck. the first thing he see be a

large barque on the port bow, apparently pay off, having just go

about. fresh as he be from a deep sleep, Mr. Whitear have all his wit

about he in a moment; and he immediately perceive that, let he do

what he like and shout as he would, a collision be unavoidable. the

barque loom up large and massive in the darkness. her light be as

plainly to be see as the star, whilst the _Jehu’s_ burn as brightly.

the wind have freshen somewhat, and both vessel be heel under it.

all be silent aboard the barque--not the least sound could be hear;

and in that thrilling and breathless moment all other noise take a

startling distinctness--the washing of water, the creaking of spar, the

squeak up in the darkness of a sheave upon a rusty pin. there be no

sensation comparable to what be feel in the few minute which elapse

between the approach and shock of two meeting vessel. a railway

collision give you no time. if by chance you look out of the carriage

window and see what be go to happen, before you can sing out the

thing have come and be over. but a collision at sea furnish you with

leisure to think, to anticipate, and to make an agony of the disaster

before it actually befall you. whichever way the helm of the _Jehu_ have

be jammed would have be all the same; the barque be bind to come,

and in a few moment there she be, with her bow tower like a cliff

over the low bulwark of the well-freight _Jehu_, her jibboom and

bowsprit arching across the little schooner’s deck like a great spear in

the hand of a giant.



the _Jehu_ heel over under the blow until the rail of her starboard

bulwark be flush with the water. the man come skurrye, half-naked,

out of the forecastle, think she be sink, and rush aft to be

out of the way of whatever might tumble down from aloft. you hear the

grind noise of crushed wood; the thud of fall gear, the tearing of

canvas. the weight of the barque, that be a big vessel in ballast,

sweep the stern of the little _Jehu_ to windward, round she in such a

manner as to free they both. but by this time there be plenty of noise

and activity to be note aboard the barque. order be rattle out in

plain English, and you could hear the scampering of foot and the song

of the seaman as they run to and fro and pull and haul. she heel

over like a great shadow with her mainyard square and her fore-sheet

flatten in. it be impossible to know what mischief she have do; and,

run to the side, Mr. Whitear shout to she at the top of his voice

to stand by they, as he fear the schooner be sink.



no answer be return.



“they’re leave we!” cry the mate. “look! they’re trim sail;

they’re swinge the mainyard!”



again Mr. Whitear bawl to they not to abandon the schooner; but no

answer be vouchsafed, and in a few moment it be not only see that

she be leave they, but that she mean to get away as fast as she

could, for they loose their fore topgallant-sail and main-royal, and

sheet the canvas home with all expedition.



under such circumstance most man would have content themselves with

bestow a sea-blessing on the stranger, and then turn-to to sound

the well, and, if the schooner be leak fast, get the boat over. but

Mr. John Whitear be make of the old, and, as some people might think,

the right kind of stuff.



“Bill,” say he to William Dart, A.B., who be at the wheel, “keep your

eye upon that old catermerang while I and the mate overhaul the

schooner. follow she without a wink, William; for if there’s a creak

leave in this old bucket, we’ll stick to her skirt and have her name,

though she should go all on sailing till we come to Australey.”



Forthwith he and the mate go to work, sound the well, look over

the side, peer at the damage do aloft; and then, come aft again,

“she’s tight and she’s right, boy,” say Mr. Whitear. “now, bully,

here’s a mess that’s to cost some one pound and pound. that some one’s

not to be John Whitear; so, William, starboard your helm, my lad; and

the rest of ye all turn to and make sail forrard, every stitch ye can

find, and then we’ll repair the main rigging, and get a new mainsail

bent;” for he have discover that the barque’s jibboom have cut through

the centre cloth of the mainsail, rip it open from the head to the

second reef-band as neatly as if a sailmaker’s knife have do the job.



they all go to work with a will, put uncommon agility into their

limb and spirit by call the shadow ahead many hard salt name, and

swear they would catch she if she carry they into the Polar

region. the labour be severe, for there be not many of they to

“turn-to;” nevertheless, they manage, in a time less by three-quarter

than they would have occupy on any other occasion, to repair the

damage shroud, set up preventer backstay, bend a new mainsail, and

cover the little vessel with canvas. the barque be close-haul, three

or four mile ahead, on the port tack, lie over, as a light vessel

will in such a merry breeze as be then blow, under both royal and

gaff topsail; she be trust to her heel and run away, like a big

bully from a little man whom he have accidentally hurt, and be afraid of.

her people would probably ridicule the idea of the deep-freight

schooner chase they; indeed, they have leave she apparently helpless,

her port main rigging hanging in bight over the side, her mainsail in

half, and the whole fabric looking wreck and stun from the shock

of the collision.



meanwhile, Mr. John Whitear stump the quarter-deck of his little

craft, often pause to point an old leather-cover telescope at the

lean shadow out away under the low-shine star just the merest

trifle to leeward of the lee knighthead, and then cock the glass

under his arm afresh, and swinge round with a sharp, obstinate stamp

of the foot to resume his walk.



“boy,” he sing out, “there’s no occasion for the Watch below to remain

on deck.”



“no, no,” be the gruff answer; “there’s no go below till we’ve find

out that wessel’s name.”



the wind come along with a fresh, strong sweep, and a deep moan in the

gust as they blow over the bulwark rail into the hollow glimmer of the

great mainsail; there be a kind of flashful light in the break head

of the little black surge, and a regular rise and fall of fountain-like

sound from forward, where the stem of the drive schooner be hiss

through the dark water, and the wake run away astern like a snow-cover

road, until, look at it, you seem to see the dark water on either

side stand up as if the white vein be the frothing stream of a

cataract rush into darkness betwixt the shadow of hill.



“why, smother I, if she’s not get the scent of we!” suddenly cry Mr.

Whitear with the glass at his eye; “she’s off three point, and there’s

no luff leave in she! boy, do any of you take notice if she have her

stun-sail boom aloft?”



“no,” answer William Dart; “her foreyard be just up yonder”

(point into the air), “an’ I’ll take my oath she’d get no boom on

’em.”



“then we’ll run she down yet: we’ll have she!” cry Mr. Whitear,

fetch his knee a slap that sound like the report of a pistol. “keep

she away a bit; ease off the sheet fore and aft. Hurrah, my lad! the

_Jehu_ know the road! we’ll weather the sneak, boy!” and so he rattle

on, sometimes talk to his man, sometimes to the schooner, and

sometimes address the barque ahead.



shortly after two o’clock in the morning, however, four or five

sailing-vessel hove in sight and bother Mr. Whitear exceedingly, for

there be a chance mistake the chase among they and pursue the wrong

vessel. all hand be implore to keep a bright look-out, and the glass

be now much more often at the skipper’s eye than under his arm. it be

strange enough to think of a little colly with 230 ton of coal in her

bottom pursue a vessel three time her size. it might really pass as a

most satirical travestie of the old maritime business, be it not for

the very strong commercial instinct at work in it. the purse be always

as great a power on sea as on land, and the flight of the big barque

from the little coalman be only another illustration of its supremacy.



to the great satisfaction of Mr. Whitear, the schooner turn out to be

more than a match for the cowardly runaway. it be quite clear that the

barque have no more sail to set; as it be, she be bowl along under a

press of canvas that must have make her deck mighty uncomfortable, to

judge from the sharp angle of her inclination. have she choose to put she

helm up and bring the wind well aft, she would no doubt have walk away

from the schooner, whose fore-and-aft canvas then would not have much

help she. but the barque could not forget that she have to work her way

to windward, and that her port lie N.E. and not S.W.: and though she

might slacken away her lee-brace in the hope of make the obstinate

little schooner give up, it would not answer her purpose to do more

than that.



inch by inch the _Jehu_ crawl up to she. just before daybreak the wind

breeze up like a squall, though the sky be clear, and Mr. Whitear, who

all through the night have watch the chase with the intentness of an

old british commodore follow a squadron of fly Frenchmen, shout

out that she have take in her royal and gaff topsail, and that, as it

be, she be nearly out of water to windward. but not so much as a

rope-yarn be touch aboard the _Jehu_; she have never be so pressed

since the hour that she be launch. she hove up the foam as high as

the head-board; every bone of she tremble; the wind boom away from

under the foot of her sail in a thunder-note, and the sheet and

weather stand rigging stand like bar of iron. there seem as much

eagerness in her shivering, rush frame as in her skipper, whose

excitement deepen as the square and lean shadow ahead loom big

and big. earnestly be it to be hope that the port main rigging

would stand all this straining; and yet such be the temper of the

captain and the man of the brave little _Jehu_, that, I believe, have the

mainmast go overboard, they would have hold on after the barque with a

single spar, just as I once see a man with one arm and a wooden leg give

chase to a rogue who have sneer at his misfortune.



the faint grey of the dawn be in the sky when the barque be bring to

the wind again, and, after hold on for a short while with a close

luff, go about. before she have her foreyard brace round, the

schooner have stay and be on the starboard tack, savagely break the

quick sea which be roll in the wake of the wind, and find all

the advantage she need in the weathering she have make upon the

barque, who, with the rise of the sun, appear to lose all heart, for

no more sail be make, and when she be brace up she be keep so close

that the weather half of her fore topgallant-sail be aback. the white

sunshine that have fling a deep blue over the star, and transform the

ocean into a tumble green surface full of sparkle and white line,

and a horizon so clear that it be like the sweep of a brush dip in

bright green paint along the enfold azure of the morning sky, give

stout-hearte Mr. John Whitear a good sight of the tall vessel he have

be chase all through the middle and morning watch. she be what he

call “a lump of a barque,” so light that half her metal sheathing be

out of water, with very square yard and a main skysail mast, and she

tumble with such unwieldly motion upon the run sea that it seem

no long wonderful that the _Jehu_ should have be able to weather and

forereach upon she. her way be almost stop by the gripe of her luff,

and within an hour of the time of she go about the schooner be on

her weather quarter.



Mr. Whitear have already decipher her name upon her stern, but he have

some question to ask; so, jump on to the rail and claw a backstay

with one hand, whilst he put the other hand to his mouth, he bawl out,

“barque ahoy!”



“Hallo!” be the answer.



“what’s the name of your vessel?” sing out Mr. “Whitear.



“have you forget how to read, skipper? it’s under your nose,” come

the reply.



“you’re the barque _Juno_, of Maitland, N.S.--that’s clear enough on

your starn,” shout Mr. Whitear, whose temper, inflame by the long

pursuit, be not improve, as may be suppose, by this reception; “and

you’re the vessel that run into we last night, and carry away our

shroud, brace, and run gear, the mainrail, topgallant bulwark,

and split our mainsail.”



“no, we ain’t,” be the reply. “we know nothing of the job you’re

talk about; so sheer off, will ye, and take care to spot the right

party afore let fly.”



without answer, Mr. Whitear shift his helm so as to bring his

vessel to leeward of the barque; and then, run forward when the

schooner have forge abreast of the other vessel, he shout to the man

who have answer his hail to look over the port bow of the barque and

there he would see the mark of the schooner’s chain-plate bolt, whilst

farther evidence of the barque be the culprit lie in particle of she

planking adhering to the _Jehu’s_ chain-plate. this be too decisive to

admit of farth denial; and Mr. John Whitear having obtain all the

information he require, walk aft again, once more shift his helm,

salute the barque with a farewell flourish of his fist, and then give

order to his man to trim sail and head for the port to which they be

bind.









_a salvage JOB._





among the most picturesque and lively incident of the sea be those of

the encountering of abandon vessel, and the struggle of the people

who board they to carry they into port. be it not for the imperative

injunction of owner, and the various obligation impose upon

shipmaster by the term of charter-party, policy, and the like,

there be no doubt that we should hear very much oftener than we now do

of the preservation of derelict and their cargo. the mariner often

stumble upon some substantial prize in this way. a ship be sight, low

in the water, with nothing stand perhaps but the stump of her

foremast. a spell at the pump ease she, she be overhaul, and she

hold see to be full of valuable cargo. she be take in tow, and after

several day, or perhaps week, of manœuvring, she be carry into port

and find to be worth some thousand of pound, a goodly portion of

which go to the man who navigate she into a place of safety. there be

a touch of romance in such finding that never fail to render they

amusing and even exciting reading; and as story they be often rich in

a high kind of marine characteristic.



one of these yarn, I remember, impress I greatly at the time. the

master of a vessel, call the _Fides_, sight a dutch barque

water-log. on approach she, only one man be to be see on board.

he prove to be the skipper, who say that his crew have refuse to

remain by the vessel, and have leave he alone in she. he be bring

aboard the _Fides_, but have not be there ten minute when he beg to

be send to his water-log barque again. his entreaty be so move

that the captain of the _fide_ yield, and he be once more put in

possession of his wreck and leave there. next day a vessel, call the

_Ballater_, take he off, and the wonder be that the poor fellow have

ever manage to keep his life on the deck of the wave-sweep hulk. here,

in the most obscure form in the world, be an exhibition of the sailor’s

loyalty to his ship so great as to make a truly heroical figure of that

dutch captain. narrative which recount the meeting with derelict and

their conveyance to port often reveal some of the good quality of the

sailor--I mean his indifference to peril, his capacity of determine

labour, his triumph over force whose antagonism would leave most

landsman helpless and hopeless. such be the story of the _Caledonia_, a

prize crew from which take charge of the brig _emily_, and, after ten

day of fierce battle with violent gale of wind in a vessel

jury-rig and half full of water, be eventually force to abandon

she. such be the voyage of five man in the derelict barque _Thor_ of

Tvedestrand, laden with scrap-iron and oil-cask; they have to rig a

jury-rudder to get she to sail, and for nearly a fortnight struggle

with heavy weather and baffle wind, eventually be shipwreck near

Youghal, and narrowly escape with their life only to witness the

craft they have desperately labour to save go to piece among the

rock.



not very long since a ship-rig vessel of nine hundred ton be

proceed on her voyage to one of the West India Islands. the weather

have be calm and thick through the night, with a long swell roll up

from the westward, and the morning break with a fiery sun, red as that

luminary be at his setting, and a mountainous heave of the sea that in

the wake of the orb roll in billow of molten gold, give a kind of

dreadful splendour to the hazy morning, with its faint and tarnished sky

and the sickly green of the swelling and foamless deep, and the stubborn

belt of haze that hang like the greyish shadow of rain upon the horizon,

save where the sun loom like a blood-red shield as he float heavily

out of the deep. there be a hundred sign to betoken a gale at hand,

and preparatory measure be accordingly take aboard the ship. all the

light canvas and the mainsail be furl, and single reef tie in the

topsail. never be such rolling. the draught of air have no weight to

steady the vessel; she fall into the hollow of the swell, and from side

to side she sway as each ponderous liquid fold catch and hove she

over, the water burst inboard in smoke through her scupper-hole, the

shroud creak with the tension of the strain as though they would

draw the chain-plate like pliant wire, and every beam, strong

fastening, and bulkhead add their groaning note to the general

clamour of the labour hull and the beat canvas. by nine o’clock

the sun have vanish under an expanse of slate-colour cloud that hung

over the whole surface of the deep; but yet another hour elapse before

the gale burst, and then it come along in a voice of thunder and over a

surface of milk-white water. with the upper topsail halliard let go

and hand by the low topsail sheet, the ship lean down to it until

the foam be up to a man’s shoulder in the lee scupper; but they

manage to get she to pay off, and presently she be speed like an

arrow on the wing of the temp, pile the foam as high as her

figure-head, her main-topsail blow in rag out of the bolt-rope, and

sheet of spray fog her deck like burst of vapour from a boiler.



the next thing to do be to bring she to the wind before the sea rise;

the crew go aloft to stow the topsail and frap what remain of the

main-topsail upon the yard; and after a little there be the ship with

nothing on she but a small storm trysail, bow and shearing at the

huge surge which the storm have lift in cone and pyramid, and which

be now pour and break with a terrible roaring noise. all day and

far into the night the storm blow without intermission, but it break in

the middle watch, and then fine down so rapidly that at eight o’clock

in the morning the ship be pursue her course under whole topsail and

topgallant-sail, and curtsy over the long heave of the sea, whose

green seem to sparkle after the purification of the temp, and whose

beautiful arching coil be brilliant with the diamond-like flashing of

the foam chip out of the emerald acclivity by the keen tooth of the

clear, fresh north-east wind.



shortly after noon the watch on deck have come out of the forecastle

after eat their dinner, when a small brig be make out right ahead,

apparently stand athwart the ship’s hawse. on approach she it be

see that she be drift, and that though there might be people

aboard, she be not under control. aloft she be in a state of great

confusion, her foreyards square, and her after-yard braced as wildly

as the leech of the canvas would allow. the davit fall be

overhaul to the water’s edge, and all the boat be go. here and

there end of her run rigging trail overboard, and as she roll

heavily in the trough of the sea, the sound of her flap canvas throw

a wild and melancholy echo athwart the breeze. the master of the ship

loudly hail she, and all eye be eagerly fasten upon the brig to

observe if there be any indication of life in she. possibly nothing

so heighten the mournful and tragical suggestion of an abandon

vessel as the loud hail of a pass ship and the deathlike stillness

follow, unbroken save by the hollow beating of canvas, the drowning

sob of swell water, and the creak of strain timber.



it be very evident that nothing alive be in the brig, and the master

of the ship, after consult with his mate, decide on send a boat.

accordingly, the second mate and a couple of seaman go over the side,

and, after some hard rowing and careful dodging of the sea, they gain

the brig, and scramble upon her deck. they find that she be damage

to an extent that could not be imagine by inspection of she from the

ship. her galley and cabin skylight be smash in, bulwark stanchion

be start, and, in addition to various other injury, there be

three foot of water in the hold. whether she have drain this water into

she from the deck or whether it be due to a leak could not at once be

ascertain; it be certain at least that her hold be full of cargo,

and that it be of a nature that would not enable she to float should

the water gain upon she. these fact be report by the second mate,

who add that he could find no paper belong to the vessel, and that

she have be strip of all her provision.



“it seem a pity to leave she knock about here,” shout the

captain. “it’ll be another man’s job if we don’t tackle it. do you see

your way to carry she to Fayal?” then distant about four hundred mile.



the second mate converse with the two man who be with he, and, after

a little while, call out, “ay, we’ll risk it.”



on this the two seaman be order to come alongside, when some

provision, water, a sextant, chart, and other needful article be

lower into the boat. with these they put off, receive a loud

encourage cheer from the rest of the ship’s crew; and, reach the

brig’s side, hoist out the provision, and hook on the boat and

drag she up to the davit. the ship stand by for awhile, watch the

plucky fellow, and perhaps suspect that they might repent their

undertaking, for even with a dry bottom the brig might have be

reckon a big navigating job for three man. she roll heavily and

continuously, her canvas strike the mast with loud report, and

make the light spar buckle, and as she lift her shine side out

of the bright green sea the water be see to gush from her bulwark in

a manner to prove the wrenching they have undergo from the recent

tempest. there be no show of misgiving or repentance, however, on the

part of the man. having hoist their boat they turn to and trim

the yard, clap the jigger on to the topsail halliard, and give

everything a good spread. the little vessel take the wind, slightly

heel, and come round to her course for the Western Islands, and the

last thing the ship, as she fill and stand on her voyage, see of the

brig be the second mate at the wheel, the two man toil at the

break-pump amidship, and the little vessel under fore and main

topgallant sail heavily swinge over the long ocean swell, throw the

foam from her deep round bow, and look but the mere toy amid the

vast surface of undulating water which lean away into the furth

reach of the sky.



a crew of three man leave, with one at the wheel, only two to do the

ship’s work. four or five seaman would not have be too many to hand

that brig’s main sail alone, and a gale of wind might therefore oblige

the second mate and his two companion to put their helm up and run for

it, and leave the canvas to blow away with a blessing upon it before

they could bring the vessel to. four hundred mile seem but a short

voyage nowadays; but a head wind might enlarge the period of such a

journey into week, in which case, unless these man meet with

help--which, though very likely, be by no mean certain--they be

bind to perish of starvation, as the quantity of provision supply to

they by the ship could not, however economically use, outlast four or

five day. it be just because a sailor would keenly understand all the

heavy risk and difficulty comprise in such an adventure as these

three man have engage in, that the courage imply in this and many

other attempt of the same kind to save property find at sea deserve a

good place in the annal of naval heroism. a half-hour’s spell at the

pump satisfy they that by regular application the water might be keep

under, though there could be no long any doubt that the vessel be

leak either from a start butt or some puncture below the

water-line. a tarpaulin be find and secure over the broken skylight,

as a provision against dirty weather; the galley fire be light, and

the deck clear up, and there be an old reel-log near the wheel,

along with a sand-glass, they manage among they to heave it--the second

mate at the helm hold the glass--and discover that the brig be

make a little less than four knot. but the weather keep fine, and

this support the man’s courage, as do also their assurance one to

another that they be bind to be well reward for the risk they be

run. they have another spell at the pump, and then fetch a bit of

the ship’s beef that have be put to cook in the galley-copper, and

bring it aft with some biscuit, make out a tolerable meal, the mate

steering with one hand and eat with the other.



the day pass quietly, but the wind be light, and the progress make

be small. the duty of keep the pump go at regular interval grow

exhausting, but it be absolutely necessary that the quantity of water

should be keep under the depth find in the brig when she be board,

and every hour throughout the day the harsh clank of the pump might be

hear, cease after an interval when the man, pale with fatigue, and

with the sweat streaming from their face, fling themselves upon the

deck breathless and spend. the breeze freshen at sunset, and the

topgallant-sail be take in. the night come down very dark, with a

few misty star here and there, and a flavour in the swing of the wind

as it blow in gust over the bulwark that be a promise of bad weather.

the weight of the water in the little vessel, couple with the cargo,

that come flush with the main hatch, sink her deep, and as the sea rise

her behaviour grow wild. the billow tumble against her weather-bow,

and such be her inelasticity that at time she would not rise to they,

but let they roll over her forecastle, bury herself pretty nearly as

far aft as her foremast, and flood her deck to the wheel.

fortunately her upper work be staunch, or she must have be drown

again and again by the sea which tumble in ton’ weight over her head.

the man make shift to stow the upper topsail before it come on hard,

but they could do nothing with the low canvas, which must blow away if

it would not stand. this the fore-topsail do shortly after ten o’clock

in a squall of wind; the weather sheet part, and in a few moment the

sail be in rag, increase the roar noise of the gale and the

crash sound of the sea by the fierce whipping of the tattered cloth.

amidst all this confusion and wild scene of the black heaven and

glimmer height of water, the man betook themselves again and again

to the pump, and the metallic ring of the work brake fling a dismal

note of shipwreck into the harsh uproar of the war element. it be

difficult to realize a sterner picture of struggle, a more furious array

of peril. here be three man as crew of a vessel which want a good

nine hand to work she, exhaust by pumping, and yet oblige regularly

to apply themselves to the pump to keep the vessel afloat--force by

this work, or by have to tend the helm, to remain unsheltered upon the

deck over which the sea be burst in whole ocean; wet through to

the skin, without the mean of obtain a warm drink, and without the

chance of preserve a dry stitch even be an opportunity afford they

to change their clothe; a black and howl void overhead, and below a

huge break sea, in whose thunderous hollow the little vessel labour

like a drown thing, one moment upright and becalm by the tower

coil of a rush surge, the next on her beam-end on the summit of the

liquid height, with the full force of the gale howl through her

rigging, and the spray from the break head of the near comber

sweep over her deck upon the breath of the black and ring wind

like a furious snow-storm.



in the limit assign here it be impossible to do justice to this

struggle. to make it a conceivable thing to the landsman’s intelligence

something of photographic minuteness be want in the reproduction; the

picture of the man leave the pump and crawl along the deck to the

wheel, their talk, their posture as they sit crouch and listen to

the infernal din in the ebony void on high--a hundred such matter,

indeed--together with the outline of the vessel, reveal for a

breathless space, as she swoop into a trough with a headlong shearing

of the bow that make the water boil in whiteness which fling a kind of

twilight round about, in which the ink-like configuration of the

straining and beat fabric be throw up as though a gleam of pallid

moonshine have break through the dense vapour of the storm and fall

for an instant into the swirling and cream hollow in which the brig

lay weltering. that the deeply-laden and half-drown vessel should have

outlive that night be a real miracle. fierce as have be the precede

storm encounter by the ship, this gale have at time an edge in it that

the other want. happily, like its predecessor, it be short-live, and

blow itself out soon after daybreak, though it leave such a tremendous

sea behind that for several hour after the wind have sober down into a

topgallant breeze the brig be in the utmost jeopardy. the rolling be

so frightful that the man could do nothing aloft. the mate refuse to

allow they to leave the deck, expect every instant to see the mast go

over the side. it be almost impossible to stand at the pump; sometimes

the little vessel would literally _dish_ a sea over her rail that sweep

the two seaman off their leg, and force the mate, who grasp the

wheel, to hold on to the spoke for dear life; and it be as much as

their neck be worth to let go for a moment. by noon, however, the

swell have greatly subside, and the man make shift to set the main and

upper fore-topsail and topgallant-sail, and to board the foretack.

the mate also get an observation which enable he to set his course.

but the night that be pass have almost do for they; they could

scarcely stand, and crawl about like sick man; and such be their pass

that when the mate, lay hold of the pump, sing out to one of his

companion to come and lend he a hand, the reply be that if the

pumping be to depend upon _he_, the bloom hooker might as well sink

at once, as there be not strength enough leave in he to kill a flea;

and it be not until the mate and the other man who stand at the wheel

have consume twenty minute in entreaty, curse, and other marine

rhetoric, that the exhausted creature be induce to “tail on.”

fortunately for the poor fellow the wind have shift into a quarter

favourable for their voyage; they dry their clothe, cook some beef,

and manage to snatch sufficient rest between the interval of pump

to give they back something of their strength. everything go on well

until they be about forty mile distant from Fayal, when the wind

back and blow a fresh breeze right ahead. this be madden enough.

they brace the yard hard up, pack all that they could hoist upon the

vessel, and swear that, come what might, they would not slacken a

halliard nor touch a sheet though it should blow fit to prize the old

butter-box out of the water. it be not long after this that a steamer

hove in sight, and, probably suspect a case of distress by the look

of the brig aloft--for the rag of the low fore-topsail still

flutter upon the yard--slow her engine to speak the little vessel.

“what ship be that?” be ask. the name be give and the circumstance

relate. the steamer then offer to give the brig a drag towards Fayal,

but when it be understand that a share in the salvage would be

expect, the second mate sing out no, they want no help, they have

scrape through it all right so far, and be willing to venture the

remain risk. thereupon the steamer proceed, but have not sink she

hull when the wind again shift, and enable the brig to look up for

her port with the breeze full abeam; and within nine hour from the time

of having be speak by the steamer, a pilot have board she, and she

be safely moor at the west end of Fayal Bay. the value of the brig

and cargo prove to be sixteen hundred pound, and when the award come

to be make, four hundred pound be give to the owner of the ship

that have board the brig, one hundred pound to the master and crew of

the ship, and a substantial sum to the second mate and his two man.









_a CHANNEL INCIDENT._





the captain of the steamer which ply as passenger and cargo vessel

between London and the french port be a class of man familiar in a

more or less degree to most of we, and it be probably this familiarity

that prevent we from dwelling, with the emphasis that be deserve, upon

the singular skill they exhibit, day after day, and year after year, in

carry their ship through what may be fairly call the most

dangerous water in the world, with scarcely a misadventure to vary the

chronicle of their little voyage. by night and by day they be

thread the intricacy of the crowd river Thames, grope through

white mist so thick that a buoy must be alongside before it can be

see; struggle against sudden burst of furious Channel weather, which

bring up the most abominable kind of sea that a sailor can tumble about

in--short, roar cross surge which seem to knock the very breath out

of the paddle steamer, slope her funnel like the _bâton_ in the hand

of a band conductor, submerge one paddle-wheel to let the other

revolve like a windmill out of water, and blow up in storm of snow

from the sponson, whilst the worry vessel pitch savagely into the

narrow hollow, fling up her stern like the hind leg of a colt that

take fright at a pass train, her tarpaulin stream with wet, the

escape-pipe blowing as she reel, a few sea-sick passenger wet through

aft, two or three seaman in oilskin dodge the sea forward, and the

skipper on the bridge hold on to the rail with both hand, and

wonder what that confound old “Geordie” right ahead be up to,

come along with square yard and his patch boom-foresail belly

out like a sailor’s shirt dry in the forestay, as if the whole of the

Channel be his private property, and it be his duty to run over

anything that get in his road.



take the trip to Boulogne alone. in fine, clear weather it be all plain

sailing, no doubt. but if a passenger want to appraise the merit of

these captain rightly, let he quit the pitch-dark deck, and a night so

black and thick that it be a positive relief to the eye when a shower of

spark break out of the funnel and blow away into the ebony gloom to

leeward, and go below into the bright, warm cabin, and overhaul a chart

of the mouth of the Thames and the adjacent water as far as the South

Sands Head Light. why, the sight be bewilder by the mere look of that

chart. it be as though a spider have get foul of an ink bottle, and have

be clean its leg on a large sheet of white paper. West and East

Girdlers, Margate Sands, Long Sands, Sunk Sands, Goodwin Sands--it seem

to be all sand; whilst the sounding be more alarming still--eleven

fathom here, and close against it, one fathom--the English of which be

blue light, rocket, hoveller, lifeboat, and Board-of-trade

inquiry. Jones, asleep in his little state cabin, know nothing of the

maze of peril through which he be be steer; he will rise in the

morning and take his seat at the breakfast-table, and in the compose

feature of the brown-face, hearty-look captain who sit modestly

eat a rasher of bacon, he will find no trace or hint of a vigil

which begin at London Bridge and which will not terminate until Boulogne

be reach, though perhaps--the Goodwins be astern, and neither the

Varne nor the Ridge be very much in the road--the hard part of it

may be say to be over.



but the danger of the English Channel be by no mean limit to shoal

and foul weather. if those be all, the captain who safely carry

hundred upon hundred of passenger to and fro in the course of the

year, would have to abate something of the praise to which their

excellent skill and remarkable vigilance entitle they. in truth, a

danger more to be fear than shallow water and tempestuous weather be

collision. I be not speak of the daytime and fine weather; though

even in the daytime and in fine weather collision at sea will happen

through a dozen circumstance more absolutely unavoidable than the most

apparently unavoidable railway collision ever attribute by a coroner’s

jury to pure accident. it be the thick and silent night that be most

haunt by this deadly peril. there be no wind, but a drench drizzle

drop unseen, save in the haze of the cabin skylight, from a black

heaven that seem to rest its ponderous burden on the slender masthead

of the creep steamer. it be the English Channel, the great maritime

highway that lead to all part of the world, and now as ever it be

crowded with shipping; and through this mighty shadow, full of hide

life and hidden danger, those captain I be write of must bring their

vessel, day after day, week after week. they must not lag, for time be

precious to their owner. their unscathed emergence year after year must

surely savour of the miraculous to any man who will but give his mind to

the character of the danger through which these sailor steer their

vessel in safety. as a sample of this particular peril of collision,

let I give an instance--a recent one. it may remove reference from all

risk of misapprehension if I say at once that the steamer be from

Bilbao, bind to a North country port.



she be abreast of Beachy Head when the night fall, and the fresh

southerly wind, suddenly shift to the westward in a little squall,

drop. during the latter portion of the afternoon the weather have be

slowly thicken, but when the wind go the haze roll up all round

like smoke, blacken the moonless night until the very foam breaking

away from under the counter be a scarcely perceptible glimmer upon the

inky surface that melt into the midnight void within a biscuit’s throw

from the vessel’s side. there be a few passenger, who vanish with

the daylight and might be see, by peer through the cloudy skylight

glass, seat at the cabin table, the lamplight bright upon they, and

make the picture of the irradiate interior, by contrast with the

breathless blackness on deck, like a magic-lantern show. there be no

gleam of phosphorus, no pallid streak of foam, to define the presence of

the deep; but the soft seething of the pass froth, resemble the

escape of steam hear thinly and at a long distance, fill the ear with

a permanent note, and the dull vibration of the engine could be lightly

feel. the haze be as wet as rain; and the bullseyes over the

light interior glimmer like emerald in the deck upon which the

mist be crawl as the vessel carry it along. there be a mystery in

the hush blackness of a night like this at sea which may be enjoy in

the open ocean, where the imagination let itself loose upon the hide

league of water, and find a kind of life in death in the mere

capacity of sentience amidst such a universe of shadow; but it come

with an element of fear in a narrow sea stud with quicksand and

alive with vessel. the eye struggle with the darkness in vain. every

instinct sympathize with the blindness that have fall upon you; but

the strained ear catch no more than the sob and fret of pass water

and the chafing of gear as the vessel sway upon the indistinguishable

fold of the swell. a man come up out of the cabin of that steamer

might have reckon the vessel desert and leave to her own guidance.

the wheel be amidship, and there be no familiar binnacle-lamp to

relieve with its soft mist of light the eye that strove to pierce the

darkness aft. to know where the captain be, or whether there be any

hand on the look-out, it would have be necessary to sing out or go

about the deck and upon the bridge groping.



presently, what look to be a composant--a small trembling point of

light--hover in the blackness on the starboard bow, and a moment after

there creep out under it a dull green smudge, as faint and baffle in

the thickness as the waver flame of spirit of wine. a steamer’s

light; but all that be visible of she be a deep darkness in the air

where she loom, a row of illuminate scuttle like the beach-lamp of

a little town see afar, and fibre of radiance strike into the foggy

air from the bright light on the fore-mast. a deep fold of darkness

seem to overlap the night as the invisible steamship sweep by; the

pulsing of her engine thin down, and the wash of the bow-wave melt

into the vague, haunt undertone of chafing water--a sound come you

know not from where. on a sudden the deck rang with a loud and fearful

cry, “there’s a vessel right ahead! hard-a-port! hard-a-port! mind, or

we shall be into she!” crash! you could hear the sound of splinter

wood, follow by a whole chorus of shriek, whilst a dozen order be

volley out in hoarse note on the steamer’s deck. “what be it?”

“where be she?” “get some light along, in God’s name!” a bright red

flame throw out a wild radiance over the steamer’s side: there be a

rush of man to see what it be, and there, glide past the steamer,

every outline distort by the crimson, flickering, streaming fire of a

flare-tin hold on high by one of her man, be a french three-masted

smack, her deck apparently full of people, shriek altogether, and in

every conceivable posture of entreaty and terror--a dreadful picture

indeed, stand out with terrible distinctness in the red light of the

flare against the liquid pitch of the sea and the sky. their shout and

cry be in the rude _patois_; it be impossible to distinguish

their meaning amidst the hubbub on the maim and broken hull, as it

veer swiftly astern, the mainmast over the side, the wild light

flash up the crowd of white face as the flame from the tin break out

in a blood-red fork of radiance, and the whole fearful picture vanishing

as the light suddenly expire, and the night roll its inky tide over

it. the steamer’s engine be instantly reverse and the iron fabric

stop. the passenger came rush up out of the cabin, increase the

distraction of the darkness by their eager, terrified inquiry to know

what have happen. the chorus of shrieks astern be silence, and only

faint, single, most melancholy shout break the terrible silence upon

the sea, prove but too conclusively that the vessel have founder, and

that these cry come from swimmer.



meanwhile every lamp and lantern aboard the steamer that could be

collect have be bring on deck, and you could see the dark figure

of seaman struggle to get the boat overboard, rush aft, and

vociferate promise of speedy help into the blackness astern, some

bend on lantern to rope’ end, and let they drop over the side,

and fling end of line overboard for the clutch of such swimmer as

should reach the steamer; whilst the cry of the captain and mate and

the shout of the crew be make deafen by the pouring and hiss of

steam up in the blackness overhead. it always seem an eternity at time

like this before the boat be overboard; something get foul; the oar

have be take forward to be scrape, and cannot be find; a kink in

the fall have jam in the davit-block; there be no plug, and a dozen

voice be shout all at once for something to take its place. but two

boat at last be launch, after an interval of about five minute,

and pull slowly away for the spot where the smack have founder, a

hand in each bow hold a lantern and keep a bright look-out for

those black spot which should denote the head of swimmer and drown

man. a silence as of death fall upon the steamship as her boat leave

she. a crowd of people stand in the stern watch the two spot of

light upon the water, breathlessly listen for any sound that should

indicate the rescue of even one man. the lantern over the side fling a

short space of radiance upon the sea, and man be post along the rail

to watch for any approach swimmer who should have be miss by the

boat.



“be you find any of they?” bawl the captain of the steamer,

send his voice in a roar through the hollow of his hand.



“ay, ay, we’re pick they up,” come back the answer in the merest

thread of sound.



ten minute go by, and then suddenly there arise a shout from one of

the man station at the port bulwark.



“here’s a man swim here!” and in a breath there be a rush to the

side.



“get another light over!”



“fle he this life-buoy!”



“pitch a coil of rope to he, but mind you don’t hit his head, or you’ll

sink he!”



half a dozen splash tell that these various order have be execute.

“he’s get hold of my line!” sing out a voice, and as the rope be gently

haul in, a seaman, jump into the bight of a rope, spring overboard,

and in a few moment both man be drag over the side.



the half-drown french smacksman fall down in a heap the instant he

touch the deck. he be dress in heavy sea-boot and oilskin

legging, and how he have manage to swim the distance from where his

vessel have founder to the steamer be a miracle not to be explain by

any known law of specific gravity. he be carry into the forecastle,

unable to articulate; but another quarter of an hour go by before the

boat return.



“how many have you?” shout the captain, as they approach.



“we have four, and the other boat have five. there be woman among ’em,”

be the answer.



they come alongside, and one by one the poor creature be hand up.

there be three woman, dress in the picturesque costume of the

Boulogne fishwife, but draggle, streaming, with closed eye, and a

quick, suffocating breathing, half dead. Most of the other be in the

last stage of exhaustion; but one be able to speak, and as he stand a

moment in the lantern-light answer the captain’s question, a more

move object could not be imagine. the water drain from his finger,

his hat be go, and his iron-grey hair--for he be an old man--lie in

a tangled mass over his eye; and there be a most heartrending

expression of horror and despair in his face.



he say his vessel have leave Boulogne early that morning. there be four

woman and ten man and boy on board. he own that they have have no

light burn. he tremble like a freezing man, and be then lead below,

with his hand to his face, sob as if his heart would break, and

moaning in his rude French that amongst the drowned be his wife and

boy.



“be you sure there be no other afloat when you come away?” ask the

captain of the mate, who have charge of the boat. “one man swam to we, I

must tell you, and we have he aboard.”



“sure, sir,” be the answer. “we pull round and round, but there be

nothing to be see. the people be save by the mainmast that be leave

afloat when the smack go down. those who be drown miss it,

otherwise it be big enough to keep all of they up.”



for another twenty minute the captain linger, peer into the

darkness, and keep one boat overboard ready for the first sound. but

the deep be as silent as the tomb, and nothing disturb the deathlike

stillness, unless it be the murmur of the man forward talk over the

tragical incident, and the quick, passionate whisper of the passenger,

as one would suddenly say, “hush! what be that?” and another, “see! be

not that something move out yonder?” nothing more could be do. very

reluctantly the captain quit the stern of his vessel and give order

to get the boat on board, and in a little while the steamer be slowly

move again through the blackness, her deck wrap in darkness and

silence, whilst the haze float like steam round the masthead light,

and the water gurgle like the cry of a drown man as it eddy round

under the counter and go away in a pale glimmer of froth into the

midnight gloom astern.



this little incident will, I believe, fairly set before the reader one

of the peril against which those particular captain to whom I refer

in the beginning of this article have to contend. here be a

fishing-smack, lie becalm, without a light showing, on a night make

pitch dark by a drizzling haze. how could such a collision be avert,

short of the captain of the steamer bring up?--a remedy which his

owner most assuredly would not think the well of he for adopt. I

repeat that having regard to the difficult navigation of the mouth of

the Thames, as far south as the southern limb of the Goodwins, to the

mass of shipping of all kind that be always crowd these water, to

the perilous weather to be find there, and to the negligence,

foolhardiness, and indifference which be characteristic of the

seamanship of score of the man--English as well as foreigner--who have

charge of small craft navigate that sea, the manner in which the

master I be speak of carry their steamer from port to port, year

after year, show always the same clean bill of health, imply an

amount of skill and vigilance which any one acquaint with the

navigation and danger of the English Channel from the Nore to the

Bullock Bank will own cannot be too highly praised.









_loss of a smack’S CREW._





I fall once into conversation with a smack-boy--a yorkshire lad--who

tell I a story which I privately decline to believe until I see the

print report of the inqu, and have confirmation of his narrative

from other hand. man who go to sea meet with strange accident, and

perish through cause which landsman would ridicule as impossibility

in marine novel; but seldom do a vessel’s crew encounter such a

disaster as that which befell the people of the smack _Apostle_, of

Hull. I wish I could tell the story as the fishing apprentice give it

I. no painter could imagine a fine study than the figure of the lad in

his blue knit overall, his big boot, his sou’wester, the hinder

thatch of which fork out from the back of his head like the tail of a

gull on the wing, his young face as he talk warm up into a kind of

passionate awe and fear, as it might in his sleep when the dreadful

circumstance stand out in the sharp configuration of a dream; whilst now

and again he would pass the back of his rough hand across his forehead

to rub off the gout of sweat which gather there. however, I can do no

more than translate the lad’s yarn, and make it complete, in its way, by

fact I get from other. the _Apostle_, then, be a smack, belong to

Hull. will Stevenson be her master, and John Butler her mate. besides

these she carry two other man and a boy--the lad who tell I the

story--make in all five soul. she leave Hull, however, with only four

man, for the boy do not join she until she have be out cruise a

week, when he be send to she in a steamer.



Life on board a smack be but a dull affair, and such excitement as it

have be all against the fisherman. it be tedious work drift for hour

with the trawl overboard; but what be to be make of it when, as

sometimes happen, the trawl be get aboard and the net find tear to

piece by a piece of sunken wreck or something of that kind, and all the

fish go? or take a gale of wind blow for a week, keep the

fisherman wait and wait for a spell of moderate weather to fetch

his ground. to be hove-to in a smack in the North Sea be such a dance as

you must endure--not for a day, but for several day together--to

understand. who that have roll in a big steamer across the tempestuous

stretch of water which wash our eastern coast have not watch from the

reeling, spray-sweep deck the spectacle of some dandy or cutter-rig

boat, jump as if by magic into the arena of the green, pelting, and

foaming amphitheatre, with her storm jib-sheet to windward or well

amidship, a slender band of dark, close-reef mainsail tearing at the

quivering gaff, whilst she toss the high spring of her bow at the

rush snow of the surge, chop sharply down into the livid vortex

and make it flash up in white spume that smother she like the smoking

spray of a great waterfall, vanish until her gaff be hide, and

nothing show but the jerk vane at the masthead behind the glitter

ridge of the sea that run at she with the roar of a good train

sweep through a tunnel; and then spring afresh to the height of

the thunderous surge until some fathom of her keel forward be

expose, and lean down upon the slope of the mountainous wave, and

under the giant pressure of the ring gale, until her mast seem

parallel with the water and her dark shred of canvas a mere black patch

upon the snow-storm under she?



one wonder, look at such a sight, how the big-boot fellow aboard

of her hold on; how they manage to cook their food; by what

inconceivable art they contrive to “fetch” their bunk, or sleep

closet, without numerous ineffectual struggle, first of all, to hit

the hole. but, in truth, no class of sailor make less trouble of dirty

weather than fisherman. with his tiller securely lash, the storm jib

slat a moment or two as the reefed mainsail swing the little craft

into the wind, then shove her nose round again as the sea run hiss

away under she, the air forward dark with fly foam and the water

drain overboard in bucketful with every send, the smacksman sit

cosily in the companion, pipe in mouth, keep one eye on the look-out

and the other eye on the time when one of his mate shall come and take

his place, and send he below to toast his hand at the little stove,

whose ruddy glow pleasantly tinge the darksome twilight of the cabin,

and enable he to find, without groping, another pipe of tobacco before

he lie down.



Daybreak on Friday, the _Apostle_ be then very nearly five week out

from Hull, find the smack with her trawl over the weather quarter and

near the north-east end of the Dogger Bank. there be a fresh breeze

blowing and a middling sea running, and the smack, surge to leeward

with the trend of the wave, rise and fall with the regularity of a

pendulum. many mile distant to windward be another smack, apparently

head for the same ground over which the _Apostle_ be drag she

trawl; otherwise the sea be vacant, and the greenish dawn, fling a

sickly tint into the sky, but leave the water dark by contrast, and

throw up the great circle of the horizon until the ocean resemble a

black and solid disc centre the huge concavity of the heaven, make

the immediate aspect of the deep indescribably wild and melancholy.

indeed, there be not a more desolate scene in the world than daybreak at

sea. the shadow of the night still hang in fold upon the water, and

the dim illumination in the east only serve to accentuate the chilly

sullenness and grim bleakness bequeath by the black hour, the last of

which be draw away in gloom into the west. but the sun be a noble

magician, and one stroke of his flash wand convert the mystery of

the dawn’s vague hint into a glorious revelation of blue height and

sparkling water. the _Apostle’s_ trawl have be over all night, but a

further short spell of drift could do no harm, and might furnish out

another trunk of fish, and the interval would give they time to get

breakfast. so the little fire in the stove be stir into a good

blaze, the coffee boil, and the two man at rest in their bunk route

out for the meal. fisherman be usually well fed, and that be one

reason, I suppose, why they appear to relish their food in a manner you

shall not find in any forecastle. they have generally a good freight of

fish to pick from, and they be not slow to boil a cod or cook a big

sole when fancy and appetite prompt they. somehow or other, to I, the

smoke that comes blow away out of the little chimney which pierce

their deck always savour of good cheer, and I be not at all

surprised, on look over some victualling account show I by a

smack-owner, to discover that the fisherman’s sea-larder--many of they,

certainly--be stock with a liberality that must make owner very

anxious indeed to know how much fish there be aboard, when their

vessel’s number or burgee come within reach of their telescope.



Breakfast do, the master give order for the trawl to be get in, and

all hand tumble up on deck to help at one of the few heavy job which

happen aboard fishing-smack. I have already say there be a fresh

breeze blowing, and the vessel, though hove-to with her jib-sheet to

windward, lean down freely under the weight of the reefed mainsail.

the sea be regular, but run quickly, and every lift of the surge

help the wind to lay the little craft along, until at time her lee

gunwale be flush with the water; but, like all boat of her class, she

would right with great vehemence, jump to windward like a goad

creature of instinct, and make the deck, slippery with wet, extremely

dangerous even to practise foot. they say that a fisherman’s walk be

two step and overboard, and any one would have think the say a

true one who have see this jumping bit of a fabric--spark like a

shrimp in and out of the hollow of the tumbling water--and watch

those big-boot, clumsily-move, powerfully-build man stride about

the deck and make ready to drag the great trawl in.



the process be very simple. the dandy-wink be man, the beam secure,

and the net be then drag in over the side. the _Apostle’s_ man have

succeed in get in the net to the cod-end, as it be call. all

five hand be employ on this job, as it be one that demand the

united strength of such little company as smack carry. they lean

over the rail to grasp the net, but the vessel at that moment bury

her lee side through the lift of an unusually heavy sea, one of the man

lose his balance and go overboard, and the net belly out and

send away as the vessel roll to windward, in the twinkling of an

eye the other three man whose hand grasp the mesh be tear clean

over the beam and bury in the sea alongside, leave only the boy on

deck. it be do in a breath. there be no time even to raise a shriek.

one moment there be all four man lean over the side, the net

securely inwreathe about their finger and wait for the signal from

the master to drag together; the next they be flounder in the water

alongside, struggle, desperately clutch at the sink net, and

drown. there be a portion of the net on deck, and to this the

boy--who preserve an heroical presence of mind in the midst of this

appallingly sudden and dreadful disaster--clung, that the man might not

drag it all overboard (and so have nothing to hold by) in their wild and

overhand grasp at the deadly, deceptive mesh which float and sink

under they, and clog the free action of their limb, and clung to

they like masse of seaweed, settle they lower and low as new fold

of it be sweep by the water around they. the net be to leeward, the

tendency of every sea be to belly it out and increase its weight,

whilst also set the whole mass of it far and far away from

the vessel’s side; but this weight be beyond description increase by

the man who battle with the fury of strong die creature in the

deadly envelopment of the trawl. every now and again a sea would break

under the vessel and bury the poor fellow in foam; and then, as the

smack sweep down into the hollow and lean heavily to windward, the

drag of the hull upon the net would strike it up again, and the four

smacksman would reappear with dusky despairing face, their eye

protrude as they strain for breath. robust as the boy be, here be

a conflict it be impossible for he long to engage in. he hold to the

net with as manly and resolute a heart as ever an english lad bring to

a struggle for life; but the weight of the belly net and of the man

cling to it, increase as it be tenfold at time by the swing and

rush of the smack upon the sea, must have tax and presently exhaust

the strength of a dozen such as he; gradually as he fail the net be

tear foot by foot away from he, though every time it be wrench from

his hand he grab at it again, and hold on with clench tooth until

another swoop would unlock his finger as you might snap a clay

pipe-stem.



suddenly turn his head--for hitherto he have be engross by the

dreadful struggle in the water just a fathom or two away beyond he--he

spy the smack that have be sight at dawn, about half a mile to

windward. she be manifestly head for the _Apostle_, and the boy

shout to the miserable drown man that help be come, and urge

they to hold on. but it be doubtful whether they hear the lad’s voice.

close upon the water the seething and hiss of foam would be

deafen; moreover, their eye be glaze--death have his hand on

their throat; they present a row of asphyxiated face, now and again

revolve in the eddy amid the trawl gear, sometimes throw up

until their body as high as the waist be out of the water, in which

posture they would remain poised with uplifted arm that give they a

horrible appearance of entreaty, then vanish utterly, to emerge a few

second after as the roll of the vessel swing they up and out. the boy’s

strength be now completely exhausted, and also he have to let go in

order to signal to the approach smack. the whole of the net then go

overboard.



about an hour have pass since the man have fall into the sea, during

all which time this most shocking tragedy be be enact, whilst the

boy with magnificent courage protract his shipmate’ live by

maintain his hold of the net. but the moment he let go the net veer

out to its full sweep, and an instant after one of the man sink and rise

no more. the smack be now within hail. the boy rush to the weather

side, and shout out the dreadful story with such strength as remain

in he, at the same pointing frantically at the water where the drowning

man be. the dreadful scene be by this time visible to the crew of the

vessel, which prove to be a Yarmouth smack call the _Esther_. they

tumble their boat over the side; a couple of hand jump into she and

row at once for the perish fisherman. the boy run back to the lee

side of his vessel to encourage the poor creature, but, look, he

discover that the third man be go; the master and mate only be to

be see, both cling to the gear and scarcely live. the little

boat--hardly well than a walnutshell in such a sea--come along fast;

but before she could come up to the master, he let go his hold and

float away, face down and arm hang lifeless, upon a run wave.

a few stroke of the oar, however, bring the rescuer abreast of he,

and he be seize and lift into the boat, which then return and take

off the mate from the gear, to which he clung like a mass of black

seaweed tear from the rock. call out to the boy that they would see

to he presently, the Yarmouth fisherman row back to the _Esther_ with

their dreadful freight, but when they come to hand the man up over the

side they find that the master be dead. the mate be carry below,

strip and dry before the cabin stove, then wrap in rug and

lay in a bunk. but he be little more than a corpse when rescue, and

the skipper of the _Esther_, go presently to see how the poor fellow

fare, find that he have expire. this be the last of the four seaman

who a couple of hour before be full of life and hope and heartiness.

meanwhile the master of the _Esther_ have send three of his man aboard

the _Apostle_, and two day after the disaster both vessel arrive at

Yarmouth.



I know not how this simple little narrative may affect other, but the

relation of it move I deeply. that four english sailor should meet

with death so unexpected, so full of anguish in its protraction, so

bitterly cruel throughout a long, long hour’s suffering, be perhaps

significant only as another illustration of the peril of the deep. it

be just one of the brief and simple annal of the poor sailor. but I

cannot but think that the behaviour of that young apprentice--name

Frederick John Graham--make it worthy of record. those who have any

acquaintance with english fisherman be only too painfully well aware

that the relation between owner and apprentice be by no mean of a

cordial kind, and in several place I hear of the clergy and other

take up the cause of these boy, and ask the public for fund to

help to give they home and to educate they into some knowledge of

religion and morality, and out of the deplorable ignorance in which they

be suffer to live. I be well aware that some apprentice be

decidedly trial to smack-owner. they will run away with their master’s

clothe. they will refuse to go to sea in the hope of be take before

a magistrate and send to prison instead. but, nevertheless, I cannot

quite satisfy myself that smack-owner--take they as a body, grant

many exception--treat their apprentice with the consideration that

even the most hard-work and ill-pay servant in other walk of life

expect and extract from their master. one do not want they to act the

part of schoolmaster, and teach the boy to read and write; but upon

what principle do they oppose the effort of other who be willing to

perform that duty? and why do they find something obnoxious in home

establish to furnish smack apprentice with certain comfort and

harmless recreation--calculate to keep the lad out of the street

when they come ashore from a voyage--which smack-owner themselves do

not apparently see any reason for provide? for these and other

reason, therefore, the endurance and hearty english spirit of Graham

may be think a proper subject to hold up to applause; for, accept

the lad as a type, the public may witness enough merit in the

hardly-use and laboriously-work community to which he belong to

justify they in give a help hand to the humanitarian who be

struggle to make the life of the apprentice when ashore happy and

useful to themselves; whilst the smack-owner will recognize in this

narrative of Graham a spirit to which he be by no mean unaccustomed,

though he need perhaps to have it more diligently emphasize than he

have yet find it, before he will accept the hint it offer to his

forbearance and to his humanity as the owner--in a most literal

sense--of lad who, take they all round, be the most friendless

being in the world, with the whole machinery of the law against they,

and only here and there a few seaside dweller to take their part by

endeavour to give some little wholesome sweetness to their existence

when out of their vessel.









_FIRE AT SEA._





an impressive story of the destruction by fire of a full-rig american

ship in the North Atlantic have be tell I. certain feature of it

combine to make it an incident certainly worthy a long record than be

usually devoted to maritime disaster, and altogether it yield such an

idea of the horror of fire at sea as be not often to be get from story

of misfortune of that kind.



a certain Wednesday in August find the _R. B. Fuller_ a little over

three week out on her voyage from Cardiff to Valparaiso. she be

freight with coal, and carry a crew of twenty hand, be indeed a

ship of 1360 ton register. a vessel of that size, unless maim by

short fore and mizzen topgallant-mast, be sure to make a handsome

picture on the water under full sail. the Americans rarely mutilate

their ship, but, on the contrary, with sky-scraper and moon sail,

pile their canvas to the heaven, and, mix plenty of cotton with

their sail-cloth, carry a yacht-like whiteness aloft that will shine

upon the horizon like a peak of ice brilliant with snow.



the weather have be fine all day, with a beam wind, and the deep, long,

black-hulled ship, lean under the weight of her cloth, slip

softly along her course over the trembling and flash blue. what

witchery be there comparable to such sailing? no sense of delight that

be bear of freedom and movement surpass the joyousness kindle in the

spirit by the swift, smooth rushing of a lofty sailing-ship over the

swell bosom of a great ocean, all sky above, all sea below, and

between, the music of the clear, glad breeze.



the sun sink and the night gather, the wind fine down, and the

american ship, with spar erect, float over the dark water, in which

the starlight seem to flake away in small coil of quicksilver. over

the side nothing could be hear but the tinkling of the ripple at the

stem; aloft there be not a stir, unless it be now and again the

muffle chafing of the foot of a sail upon a stay or the rattle of a

reef-point upon the canvas. Forward all be in shadow, with the figure

of a man on the look-out; whilst aft the mate on duty pace the deck,

pause sometimes to take a peep at the compass-card, where the

binnacle-lamp glisten in the brass centre-bit of the wheel, and shine

upon the face of the officer as he stoop to observe the indication of

the card.



the captain, Mr. Thomas Peabody, have leave the deck about three-quarter

of an hour. he be asleep in his cabin, when, shortly after ten o’clock,

he be awaken by a feeling of suffocation, and perceive that the

cabin be full of smoke. moreover, the atmosphere be charge with a

deadly, nauseating, gaseous smell that give an iron tightness to his

throat and fill his body with an unendurable prickly sensation, as

though strong mustard have be rub into his skin. he rush on deck,

where the fresh air at once revive he, and not immediately perceive

anybody about, shout for the officer of the watch. the chief mate come

run out of the darkness forward, and before Captain Peabody could

address he, cry out that the ship be on fire. the news spread as if

by magic, and in a few moment the deck be alive with the crew

hurry out of the forecastle.



of all cry, none thrill through the heart of a sailor like that of

fire. human helplessness be never so feel as at such a time. the ship be

a burn volcano, from whose cabin the red flame may soar presently,

make a wide circumference of air scorch hot with a furious play of

wither flame. the mate say that he believe the fire be in the hold

under the cabin. forthwith there be a rush to the hatch, which be

immediately close; calk-iron be fetch, and the air be busy

with the hammering of mallet. it be a sight to see the man. there be

no lack of determined courage among they, but the cry of “Fire!” be

ring in their ear; they toil in quick impulsive rush, with

feverish haste, glance to right and leave, know not in what part of

the ship the fire would first show itself in flame. every ventilator be

closed, and the cabin shut up, in the hope of stifle the fire, and the

crew then gather in a group in the waist to watch and wait and see

what their work would do for they.



presently somebody call out that the smoke be still break through.



“look there--and there, sir!”



it be hard to guess how it could escape; the hatch be closed and

calk, every aperture securely block, and yet there be the smoke

break out from all part of the vessel as steam rise from the

compact earth. on this the carpenter’s chest be overhaul, and by

order of the captain the man fall to work to bore hole in the deck. as

the solid plank be pierce the smoke belch forth in puff, mingle

with a pestilential exhalation of gas that force the seaman to work

with avert face. the pump be then man, the hose get along,

bucket drop over the side, and all hand turn-to to drown the fire

by discharge water into the glow cargo. cloud of steam come up

through the hole, regularly follow, as the white vapour thin, by

spiral column of black smoke which wound round and round to the height

of the maintop, where the light breeze catch and arch they over. no

flame be as yet visible, but the man know that the ship be full of

fire, that at any instant the hatch might be rive and shrivel up

by a discharge of flame, and therefore when the captain give order to

lower the boat there be a rush to the davit.



when the boat be in the water alongside, the captain, desire to

save certain article, call the mate and four seaman to accompany he

to the cabin; but they have not be there a minute when they suddenly

run out, some of they vomit blood, and all of they complain that

their head be swell so that they be like to burst. indeed, but

for their speedy flight, they must have drop dead in an atmosphere

that be render virulently poisonous by the combine gas and smoke. a

short spell of rest and fresh air recover the poor man, and the crew

then proceed to victual the boat with such provision as they could

come at. the mainyard be brace aback, and the man enter the boat

and row to a distance of about half a mile from the vessel, where they

remain.



it be a fine night, very calm, and the ship, with her mainyard aback,

lie steady. hour after hour go by, but no flame show itself, though

there be a gradual thickening of the smoke from the deck, and the

seaman could observe it hang in a shadow over the masthead of the

vessel and to leeward of she. gaze at she as she stand like a marble

carving upon the dark sea, it be difficult for the man to realize that

her hold be a conceal furnace; that by take off one of the hatch

and look down they could have behold an incandescent interior, a

red-hot surface like a lake of fire, with blue and green flame crawl

over it, and masse of smoke, repel or consume by the intense heat

of the central space. but for the shadow overhang her glimmering

height, there be no sign that anything be amiss with the ship.

survey from the low level of the boat, she look a majestic fabric

out there, a brave sight in the faint, fine starlight. it be a long,

weary, and bitter vigil for the poor fellow to keep. they would not

leave the neighbourhood of the vessel while she remain afloat. they

could not tell what might happen. if she burst into flame the light she

make might bring they help. or the fire might die out and so give they

their home to return to. whilst she be there, she be, in a manner,

something to hold on to; for it be a fearful thing to look away from

she into the mystery of the darkness around, and to think of be leave

to struggle amid that black and fathomless desert of water in open

boat, which bring the mighty deep within reach of their hand.



slowly the long hour go by, and then the dawn come, and the sun

uprose. with the first of the grey light every eye be turn upon the

ship. they could see the shroud of smoke that overhang she, yet not a

spark of fire have be visible throughout the night, and this, now that

the sunshine be on the sea, begot a hope in the man that, though to be

sure the smoke crawl thickly from the ship, the fire be not so bad as

they have fear, and that a long and resolute struggle might enable

they to conquer it. accordingly the oar be throw over, and the boat

head for the vessel. the boat occupy by the captain be the first to

get alongside. he jump on board, and be follow by other; but the

heat of the deck strike through his boot make he put his hand to

the plank. it be like touch hot iron. he walk to the cabin, but

on feel the door he withdraw his finger with a groan. the whole

fabric be full of fiery heat; whatever touch the flesh give it pain;

the very rope which lie coil over the belay pin be too hot to

handle; the pitch be bubble in the seam; the air between the

bulwark resemble the atmosphere of a furnace; in the haze of the heat

every object seem to revolve like a corkscrew; and the man in the

boat say that feel her side, even to the level of the water-line,

be as bad as put the hand upon a boiler full of steam.



a cry from one of the seaman who have come over the side in bare foot,

raise a kind of panic among those already aboard. “over with you,” be

the shout, “before she burst into a blaze!” and in mad haste the poor

fellow drop over the bulwark, seize their oar, and resume the

same distance from the ship that they have occupy all night.



soon after this a small breeze of wind arise. it seem to penetrate the

vessel, for with the draught there soar up a thick body of smoke. her

passage to leeward be perceptible in the short, oil-smooth wake to

windward of she; but the drift of the boat be the same as her, so

that the man have no need to use their oar to maintain their distance.

there be now weight enough in the wind to blow the smoke clear of the

deck before it rise a foot above the bulwark, so that the picture of

that full-rig ship remain there in its completeness. as the time

pass the man would see a fountain of spark hove up occasionally in

the smoke. it be dismal work sit and watch that fine ship

smouldering. all that the man possess be leave aboard of she; they have

come away, most of they, in their shirt and trouser, many without

shoe, and there in those three boat they sit look at the burning

vessel, silent in the main, often glance around they on the look-out

for a sail, and hold on to the thwart or gunwale as the boat

jerk and topple sharply about on the bit of a sea that the wind have

raise. a little before noon those who have their eye on the ship

perceive the mizzenmast to sway to and fro a moment; then suddenly it

fall with a crash; a rush of smoke, like a monstrous balloon, hover

over the quarter-deck and conceal the ruin; but it soar into the

air, and sail away on the wind under a sudden furious discharge of

spark, which resemble the explosion of a mass of rocket, and when the

vapour have settle down it be see that the mizzenmast be over the

side, the vessel a wreck aft, whilst forward the sail be dusky and

red, as though iron-stain, with the blowing of the sooty coil and the

fire of the glowing spark.



until the night come down no further alteration take place in the

appearance of the vessel. during all those long hour the man sat

crouch in their boat, watch their burn ship and search the

sea for the help that do not come. the second night roll down dark,

with windy cloud drift across the sky. here and there the

phosphorus shine in the curl of a break surge. the half-clothe man

shiver under the fresh night wind; but the ship whilst she stay

there be a beacon. if they quit she, what be there to do? she be a

dreadful signal upon the dark sea, and might yet bring succour, and so

they stay. but the darkness have not gather an hour when a tongue of

red flame dart out of the deck abaft the mainmast. it throw out a

great light, like the flash of a big gun, and the man could see one

another’s face in it. it sink and seem to expire, and then there

rush up a body of crimson spark which clearly define the dense and

swell volume of smoke that blot out the heaven in the south-east;

but speedily the flame sweep aloft again like a serpent, wreathe

itself around the mainmast; then forward and apparently out of the fore

hatch spring up another pillar of fire, and presently there be tongue

and lance of flame crawl and hiss all over the doom vessel,

glide in serpentine convolution along her bulwark, over her stern,

around her bow, limn the configuration of her hull with burning

pencil, fill whole league of the darkness with light. the stay,

the shroud, all the gear connect with the bowsprit and jibboom,

catch fire; the yard be kindle; the whole outline of the vessel be

score in fire upon the night; every detail of the standing mast and

yard and sail, the crosstree, outrigger, and top--all the furniture

of the ship’s deck, the boat-davit, the cathead, the martingale, the

spritsail yard, be express in flame. it be like the picture of a

ship draw in fire upon a black curtain. not a sound come from the man

in the boat. they watch breathless, full of amazement, thought of

their serious position be overwhelm by the dreadful but magnificent

sight of that noble ship. when suddenly the burn vessel open, a

flame such as might go up from Vesuvius soar into the air, make a

roar noise upon the wind; there be a sound of the fall of the

burning mast and yard; and then, in a breath, the whole terrific

picture vanish; it disappear as you might blow out a candle; the

boom of an explosion come dully up against the wind, and there be

nothing but the star and the black sea and a dense shadow in the

south-east where the smoke from the foundered ship be heavily sail

away.



if ever loneliness be feel at sea it be feel by those man when that

great light go out, and leave they in darkness and dread and

uncertainty. but enough if I say that after toss about for two day

and night, they sight a sail to the westward, which they chase until

they be sufficiently near for her people to see they. she prove to be

the London barque _paracca_, whose captain gladly receive the poor

fellow and treat they with the utmost humanity.









_SEA-SICKNESS._





many will remember the terrible description of Mr. Aaron Bang’s pang of

sea-sickness in “Tom Cringle.” it be fortunate that everybody whilst

suffer from nausea be not so demonstrative as the West Indian

planter. the horror of a rough passage between Calais and Dover would

be fearfully increase be the prostrate passenger to bewail amid

their throe the wine and dish which old Neptune exact from they.

and yet one have only to consider what kind of heaving sea it be that

set the West Indian howl for brandy-and-water to commiserate the poor

old epicure’s noisy anguish. sailor will appreciate the affect upon a

passenger’s stomach of a heavy gale of wind drop as if by magic and

leave the sailing vessel--for Tom Cringle flourish before the day

of steam--roll upon a tremendous swell. a steamer whose screw or

paddle be revolve and drive the hull through the water will not,

amidst the heavy sea, give you the same sensation you get from a

vessel tumble about on a strong, fine-weather swell, not a breath of

air to steady she or give her way. the steamer in a measure escape the

bad of the sea by slide out of they; her bow be lift clear of

the washing coil whilst her lee sponson be bury, and she half jump

the intervene hollow as her paddle thrust she from the summit of the

surge. often have I watch this behaviour in swift steamer, and see

they take a bow or beam sea as a horse take a hurdle.



but the motion of a vessel becalm amid a heavy swell be one of the

most uncomfortable of all sea-experience. let the mere relic of

nausea linger in the human breast, and this movement shall make a

full-blow anguish of it. I have hear of steward, man who have make a

dozen voyage round the world--whose stomach be as immovable in a

gale of wind as the ship’s figurehead;--I have hear of such man, I say,

in a heavy breathless swell, tumble down among their dish too sick

to stand, roll about among the crockery and echo with their groan

the spasmodic gurgling of the water as it sob in the scupper-hole or

wash up full, green, and sicken over the glass of the scuttle or

the cabin window.



this sort of tumblefication be fast become a thing of the past among

passenger, very few of whom nowadays make their voyage in sailing

ship, although it be by no mean yet an extinct feature of the

emigrant’s progress from the old world to Australia and New Zealand. at

such time as this the ship be as sea-sick as any of the yellow and

haggard sufferer who moan in her cabin; squeak and cry and the

rumbling of a disorder internal organization resound in her hold. over

she lean like a fainting creature, and the bubble wash of water

alongside deliver a note full of nauseating suggestion; the beating of

the canvas against the mast send a shiver through the hull; down drop

her counter amid a swirl of gurgle eddy, the stern-post complain,

the rudder jar, the wheel chain harshly strain; and then up, slowly

and giddily, mount the after end of the staggering fabric, make the

pale and helpless holder-on there feel that his brain be descend

into his boot, and that his bowel be rise to fill the emptiness of

his skull, whilst sharp report of crash crockery break out through

the skylight, the cask that have break adrift on the main-deck roll to

and fro and defy the pursuit of the three or four seaman who dodge

about after it and go sprawl over one another into the scupper, the

pig under the long-boat scuffle and snort, chest and box fetch away

in the cabin, the sailor flounder over the cable range as they stagger

out of the galley with hook pot of tea in their hand, and the

sea-blessing shower out by the cook as he chase his dish and pan

and burn his finger in his effort to save the cuddy dinner, can be

hear by the man at the wheel and the youngster who be shift the

dog-vane at the main-royal masthead.



this, I say, be an old experience; but it be a time to try the stomach

whilst it last. think of three or four day and three or four night

of it! in these day if you be sea-sick you at least have the

satisfaction of know that the ship be always go ahead, and that

the day, if not the hour, when your nausea will have terminate may be

pretty accurately fix. and yet what man hang over the side or

prostrate on his back and execrate existence can get satisfaction out

of the thought that, bad as his suffering be, they might be bad by

be protract? I believe there be some people who, when once their

head be fairly over the rail, or when what Thackeray call the

“expectaroon” be between their knee, be inspire by such a loathing

for life that they be not to be move by the wild threat of

destruction. once, in cross from Calais to Dover, I notice a vast

pile of luggage, unsecured by a single lashing, heap up on the

fore-deck. all be well until we get clear of the french coast, when a

small beam sea set the vessel rolling. in a few minute the bulwark,

from the sponson to the eye, be crowd with people of both sex

and various nationality, all engage in raise their voice in the

most dismal manner, wipe their cheek, and cast bloodshot glance

around they, only to direct their gaze again with hideous rapidity upon

the giddy white water that rush in a spin dance aft while they

explode in loud roar. I look with alarm at the nodding pile of

luggage, feel sure that an extra lurch would tumble the whole over

and seriously injure the unhappy sick people on one side or other of the

vessel. I speak to a french sailor--they be all Frenchmen aboard that

steamer--and advise he to secure the luggage. he merely shrug his

shoulder and make off. I address another, who could not or would not

understand I. thereupon I go up to the sea-sick people, and touch

first one and then another, I point to the tower of luggage and

advise they to go far aft, out of the way of the box, lest they

should tumble upon they. they must have see their danger as plainly as

I, but not one of they offer to move. they keep a tight hold of the

rail, merely turn their lacklustre eye upon I with an expression in

they, half implore, half savage, as much as to say, “let the box

come! let we be crush! what stop the box from fall?” fortunately

the second sailor I accost perceive by this time that if the luggage

be not secure the top box bid fair to go overboard when the

strong sea of the mid-channel be reach; and so among they the

Frenchmen bind the box to the deck by rope, and by so do, in my

humble opinion, save several valuable sea-sick life.



in this same journey I be amuse by an aspect of sea-sickness, or let

I say a condition of it, that will be familiar to many who make short

passage by water. go forward of the funnel, where smoking be not

prohibit, I take notice of a gentleman wear an eye-glass. he be

clothe in a yachting coat, embellish with brass button, and he be

smoke a large cigar. a very stout Frenchman be ask he some

question in broken English--I hear the gentleman with the eye-glass

say that he believe there be a pretty middling sea on outside, but “if

you’re afraid of be sick, mounseer, you should smoke, sir. you should

do as I do. nothing like tobacco for settle the stomach;” and he give

a horribly confident laugh. the corpulent Frenchman withdraw with a

groan, and lodge himself in the gloom under the bridge near the

engine, the vibration of which cause his immense body to quiver like a

jelly on a supper-table when people be dance overhead, and there he

lie so clamorously ill that the fireman drop their shovel below to

come up and look at he.



meanwhile I keep my eye on the gentleman who believe in tobacco, and

when the steamer take the first of the sea I see he seize hold of a

shroud or a funnel stay and set his leg wide apart. he continue

puff at his cigar for some time but the interval between remove

and lift it to his mouth grow long and long; presently it go

out, but he take no notice. he have his glass in his eye and his face

look forward; he be deplorably pale, and I never could have believe

that such a trifling thing as a brass button and so prosaic an object as

a nautically-cut coat could become, on occasion, more cuttingly ironical

than anything a man’s friend could say of he. the eye-glass give this

gentleman an unusually glaring expression; he never shift his gaze--I

should say that he never wink. there he stand with his leg wide

apart, the extinguished cigar in one hand and the other support he

with a death-grip, stare with horrible intensity at nothing. I know

perfectly well that if that man be make to shift his posture or speak

he would rush to the rail.



it be a brave fight; but it could not last. a young coloured gentleman,

the ashiness of nausea visible in his dark skin, suddenly jump up from

under the pile of luggage, where he have be screen himself from the

wind, and, bolt to the side, expend himself in a howl full of the

deep throaty noise that be peculiar to negro. it be irresistible; the

man with the eye-glass let go, and stagger away, with his cigar go

and his hand extend. I fear that he would find no room, for the

bulwark be line with sufferer; but, with the selfishness of acute

suffering, he plump with all his might between a couple of Frenchmen,

squeeze the aperture between they open with his elbow, and fix

himself there; and there he remain until the water grow smooth near

the english cliff, and the steamer go forward on a steady keel.



it be difficult to understand why people should find anything divert

in sea-sickness, than which surely nothing can cause more suffering. of

course, if a man will give himself air ashore or on smooth water, use

nautical word, and deride the misgiving other be honest enough to

confess to, then, indeed, if we find that marine gentleman with his head

in a basin, or with his face over the side and his hat go, we have

some excuse to laugh at he. there be people who never will own that

they be sick at sea, just as there be people who deny with indignation

that they snore in their sleep. such folk deserve our ridicule. for

what be there to be ashamed of? I have know old sea-captain quit ship

newly arrive from around the world and be ill on a voyage from London

Bridge to Hull. if such man can shout for the steward without blush,

it be hard to know why Jones, of the Middle Temple, or Smith, of the

Stock Exchange, or Snooks, the celebrate novelist, should sneak to the

side and feel humble if his fellow-sufferer see he blue in the face

with his pocket-handkerchief half-way down his throat. it may be that

people laugh at sea-sick sufferer because of the enormously and by

consequence absurdly level character of the malady. one might be the

most compassionate creature live and yet find it impossible to stop

laugh at the debasement of the high and mighty personage who, when he

come aboard, people whisper be the right honourable so-and-so, or the

acute and famous Mr. Justice Somebody else. he sit aloof, he be full of

dignity, he scarcely raise even a condescend eye from the book or

paper in his hand to glance at the other passenger, who sit doggedly,

if humbly, wait for the wheel to go round, inside and outside. I say

that a man must be more than human if he can help laugh when the high

and mighty personage change colour, when he put his paper down and

roll his eye about, when nothing seem to keep his head on but his

shirt-collar, and when an invincible horror of life gleam in that gaze

which have grow hollow with surprising rapidity. alas! no amount of

reputation, no social importance, no eloquence, which in other place

might affect the heart and even improve the understanding, can save he.

yonder in the bow be a poor little cockney, a second-class passenger,

in a shabby coat and his trouser half-way up his leg, sick beyond the

power of description; there be no bench long enough on that vessel to

furnish room for he and the great man at once if the water be smooth;

but Nausea have wave her wand, and the humble little cockney and the

high and mighty personage be brother and equal, fellow-sufferer,

with all distinction vanish between they as, with yellow face, the

cockney forward, the great man aft, they overhang the rush foam with

open mouth, the tear pour from their eye, and anguish inimitably

express in the curve of their back and the occasional kick-up

deliver by their leg.



more pathetic, perhaps, be the newly-married couple, though many a cruel

laugh and jeer have be direct even at they. but nothing be sacred at

sea. sentiment that be full of poetry in drawing-room, among flower,

under the moonshine, among hedge, take another character among rough

water.



I remember once cross fifty mile of sea in company with a young

gentleman and his bride. they be return, I take it, from their

honeymoon. they sit together upon a small, uncomfortable bench fix

against the inside of the paddle-box, whence they command a fine view

of the action of the engine, and where the smell of the oil-can hung

steadily in the wind. they both know they be go to be sick, and sit

with hand lock, two devoted heart bent on suffer together. the

steward--a pale, large, sandy-haired man--considerately anticipate

their want by place a couple of basin at their foot. the dismal

implement make but a melancholy foreground for the impassione pair,

and I wonder how they would like to have have their photograph take

in that posture. a quarter of an hour suffice to make the picture

tragical. the wife lean across the husband and the husband hold on to

she. his heroic devotion be immense; I could hear he in guttural

accent pour consolation into her deaf ear amid the interval of his

own convulsion, and when an unusually heavy roll to leeward cause both

basin to slide away out of sight under the bench, I never behold

anything more touching than his struggle to replace they without

let go of his wife.



happily, however, the heart be occasionally steel against such object

of misery as this by spectacle of selfishness and fear in the last

degree contemptible. I particularly recall a gaunt Frenchman with a

spiked moustache, who, long before nausea afflict he, refuse to stir

from his seat to help his miserable, prostrate wife, and who answer

her murmur to Emile to put something under her head and something over

her foot, by fierce command to she to hold her tongue. this wretched

man be himself seize with nausea, and so great be his fear--either

excite by the somewhat heavy sea that wash alongside the vessel or by

his suffering, which to judge from the noise he make, must have lead he

to suppose that, bit by bit, the whole of he be go overboard--that

after every explosion I could hear he shriek, “Maman! maman!” like a

girl.



what be the remedy for sea-sickness? I wish I know--most cheerfully

would I impart the secret. there be many prescription, from the ice of

Dr. Chapman to Jack’s lump of fat pork attach to a ropeyarn; but

nothing seem to answer the end design. nor be it very remarkable that

the wonderful vessel which be to put an end to nausea should still

leave the “expectaroon,” even on their own deck, the useful piece of

furniture passenger have for generation find it; for whilst clever

gentleman have show we how the effect of the rolling and pitch

movement of a ship upon the head or stomach may be overcome by pivot

saloon and swinge accommodation, they have entirely fail to

produce any kind of mechanism to obviate the consequence of those

movement of a vessel in a seaway which be alone responsible for

sickness; I mean the heave up and the swoop down. if a ship oscillate

on an immutable basis, a cot or a balanced chair would effectually stop

nausea; like a wineglass on a swinge tray, the passenger could always

maintain a posture perpendicular with the horizon. but what be to

qualify the sensation which follow the swoop down into the hollow and

the roaring heave up on to the summit of the sea? everything in the

ship must accompany she in her fall and in her rising; and it be this

motion which send people rush to the side, which set they roar

for the steward, which cause they to loathe life and to lie with their

head anywhere and their foot anyhow.



I cannot help think, however that imagination contribute something,

and often a very great deal, to sea-sickness; otherwise how be we to

account for people suffer from nausea actually before they step on

board the vessel that be to carry they? if a sea-sick man could be send

to sleep his suffering would cease; yet the vessel go on roll, and

if it be this movement, affect the stomach, that cause nausea, I

cannot quite see why the stomach should not be as sympathetic in sleep

as in wake. any way, I believe that a person could be make to forget

to be sea-sick by have his imagination intensely occupy or his fear

excited. let a vessel full of sea-sick people drive ashore, or catch

fire, or be in collision; let the captain bawl out, “we be all lose;”

it would be interesting to conjecture how much sickness would remain

aboard that ship. a good prescription might be a profoundly exciting

novel: some hideous mystery so distractingly complicate as to make one

sink all thought of wave and steward in the eagerness to discover

whether the figure Sir Jasper see be really a ghost or his first wife,

and whether it be her ladyship or the groom she run away with who shoot

Signor Squallini in the throat and do the fine art a real service. but

it be well to be sea-sick than in danger; and, if the novelist can do

nothing for we, I be afraid there be no alternative but to go on fee

the steward and build swift vessel.









_a log extract._





the follow entry be make in the official log-book of a ship name

the _Oxford_:--“Fifth November, 1882, Sunday, 4.0 p.m., lat. 35° 39´ S.,

long. 18° 53´ E., W. Waters, A.B., while furl the mizzen-topsail fall

from the yard into the sea, strike the half round of the poop in his

fall. a lifebuoy be promptly throw he, the ship bring to the

wind--it blow a fresh gale from the S.W., with thick weather and a

heavy sea at the time. the port lifeboat be at once lower, and

proceed under the charge of Mr. A. Bowling, second mate, to pick up

the man. owing, however, to the shock sustain by he in strike the

ship, and his be encumber with oilskin, etc., he sink before the

boat could reach he. after an unsuccessful search, the boat return to

the ship and be with difficulty hoist up, owe to the heavy sea

which half fill she. everything be do that could be do to save

the poor fellow. (sign) J. BRADDICK, Master.”



now, here be the whole story, as who would not suppose? the sailor

drop overboard, a boat unsuccessfully search for he, and then the

ship brace her mainyard round and sail away. but extract from

log-book, I have take notice, be like the little box which the

fisherman in the “Arabian Nights” find upon the sea-shore; when it be

open a wonderful creature shape itself out, and its figure fill the

sky. I particularly realize this when Mr. Bowling give I a sketch of

the yarn of which Captain Braddick’s log be the brief hint. why, what

a world of adventure, of heroism, of peril grow up out of these marine

entry! be it four line about a ship rescue a crew from a sinking

vessel; or about a captain come across a smack’s boat in the middle of

the North Sea, with nothing in she but a little crouch, starve boy;

or about a brig find drift helplessly, with her crew, dead of frost,

lie upon her deck? assuredly in those four line there be the making

of a thrilling volume to any man who shall faithfully put his hand to

the work and, exaggerate nothing, relate merely the adventure as it

befell, and how it come about and end, and what the actor in it say,

and do, and think. here, in very brief form, be Mr. Bowling’s own

yarn, tell with my pen, of an incident as common pretty nearly in its

way at sea as the sight of froth blow into a hollow, or of the curve

of the bow-wave flash green and glass-smooth from the shearing

cutwater.



“we leave Calcutta on Sept. 4, 1882, with a full cargo, bind for the

port of London. all go well--if by well you’ll understand nothing

extraordinary outside spell of bothersome head wind, dead calm, and

now and again a twister over the quarter to give we leg--until come

Sunday, Nov. 5, on which date you’ll see by the extract from the

log-book where we be; the glass stand low, and in the morning there

be a kind of wild wet light in the sun when he spring up from behind

the dull-coloured sea, and the lustre that come along with he seem to

roll on the top of the swell as if it be burn oil lie there

instead of be the up and down flash of fair weather, when the

light sound the very bottom of the ocean with its silver lead-line, as

you may see for yourself if you’ll watch the break of day under a pure

sky and over clean blue water. we be under topgallant-sail, on the

starboard tack, the wind about west, with weight enough in it to swear

by, and a slow gathering of haze all along the horizon over the port

quarter--south-west the bearing would be about--and a thick,

deep-breathing swell come out of it, tumble by the wind into a bit of

a sea that wash with a stormy noise along the bend, and make the ship

as uncomfortable as an old cab on a road full of stone.



“I have charge of the deck, and not like the look of the weather, I

go below to tell the captain about it. he have be up pretty near all

the night that be go, and be in his cabin take some rest. but

there’s very little rest for shipmaster, who need to have as many eye

as you find in a peacock’s tail, that they might close two or three of

they at a time, if ever they’re to get the amount of sleep that all

other kind of people, bar nautical man, find needful to keep

themselves alive on. well, sir, I call the captain and tell he that

the weather look threaten, and straightway he come on deck and take

a squint around. the wind be freshen slowly and surely, and the

topsail and topgallant-sail, out of whose cloth the wet of last

night’s squall of rain be not yet dry, be stretch as if they

would burst under it; and the water to leeward wash like boil milk

all along the scupper as the ship be rush by the pressure, take

the sea with a float jump, and make they roar as she split they

with her sharp stem and send they seethe in white smother on either

hand. there be cloud crawl up out of the thickness in the west and

south, and pass like smoke over the masthead, and there be a look

of race about the whole ocean with the sailing of those bit of

vapour, and the pelting of the ship, and the wild hurrying roll of

the sea, along which there be sea-bird screech as they skim in

their low flight through the drive spray in pursuit of we.



“well, sir, the fore topgallant-sail be furl and the watch lie aft to

roll up the mainsail; but not for long do we hold on with the main

topgallant-sail; that be clew up soon, and the wind freshen as sail

be diminish; so that, although half strip of canvas, the ship be

heel to it as before, whilst there be the hard look of a gale of

wind in the sky that you see grey between the scud; and the thickness

be blow up near and nearer, make a mere biscuit’s-throw of the

horizon, so that the sea look lump thing as they roll, all of a

sudden like, out of the haze, and be under the ship and stand up on

either hand of she almost as fast as they seem to be form. we be

now under topsail and foresail only--of the square canvas--when on a

sudden there come a bit of a lull, and a sort of silence aloft that

sound strange after the roaring, and a great noise of washing water

all around; and then plump sweep up the wind in a wild out-fly out of

the south-west, drive the ship forwards until the foam of the cutwater

look to be smother her head. all hand be call to shorten sail,

the three upper topsail halliard be let go, the starboard brace

round in, and the helm shift to bring the ship to her course. four

able seaman and four boy go aloft to furl the upper mizzen-topsail.

you know the old story: the light hand well out, the old hand in the

sling and quarter, and the sail swell up like a sheet of iron to

the wind that blow fair into it in a storm betwixt the two yard. I have

my eye on those man I be speak of, when a blast like a squall sweep

the canvas out of their fist, and in a breath one of they fall with a

twirl and a toss of his clench hand off the yard, strike the

half-round of the poop a blow that come along with the yell of the wind

in a frightful thud; and with that, rebound as a ball might, over he

go into the yeast and froth alongside. it be a horrible thing to

happen; it will stop the breathing of the strong for a minute. the

fellow on the yard roar out, ‘man overboard!’ I spring aft, and have a

life-buoy in my hand in an instant, which I throw fair, as I pray and

believe, to the yellow patch of sou’wester that I see dark on the foam

of the side of a sea; but the wind blow the light thing, like a feather,

to leeward of he. but he be swim--there be life in he, though,

man, you should have hear the thump of his fall, and then think of

he struggle there with his great sea-boot full of water, and his

heavy oilskin drag he down, and a rushing of froth over his head

every time that a sea sweep he up into the snow of its break crest.

well, sir, we go to work smartly; the hand came tumble down from

aloft, and the ship be bring to with her main-topsail aback, whilst

half a dozen of we be obey with mad haste the order to clear away

the quarter-boat ready for lower.



“meanwhile a hand remain in the mizzen-topsail yard to keep the poor

fellow in sight, and he be shout that the man be swim, and

swimming strong; that he don’t seem to see the life-buoy, but that he

be struggle bravely; and I, see this too, and drive half mad by

the pitiful sight of that sailor and shipmate fight the whole ocean,

as I may put it, and battle it with an english seaman’s courage, sing

out, ‘who’s go to volunteer for the boat?’ there be no hanging back;

it be just a leap to see who should be first. as fast as they could

tumble in, there they be, six of they, the pick of the crew--merchant

seaman, sir, whom we’re be teach to despise; there they be, I say,

with the other handle the fall, and every one look as if the

saving of the life of the man astern be his business and nobody’s else;

for he be a shipmate, and that mean a brother at sea, sir, when the

forecastle hold real sailor.



“it be four o’clock in the afternoon, and the mist be drive between

the mast. I be in charge of the boat, but try my dead good I could not

help she be badly stove before we get away, and the water come in

fast as we head for the spot where the man be last see. you must go

through it to realize the difference between the deck of a ship pitching

and roll, no matter how heavily, and the feel of an open boat

release from her side in the same sea. the solid deck you’re fresh from

make the contrast fearfully sharp, and I can well believe what I

remember read in your yarn of the wreck of the _Indian Chief_, that

the survivor of her crew when in the lifeboat own to be more

frightened by the fearful tossing and jumping of the buoyant craft than

they be when in their foretop, with the hull of the ship go to

piece under they. we could only pull four oar, for two man have all

their work in bale the boat, one with a sou’wester and the other with

a sea-boot, those be our baler. my duty lie at the helm, in watch

for the man and look out for the sea. bitterly cold it be, the sun

go down, the haze thick around, and the ship a mere heaving darkness

upon it when we have measure but a few length from she. I look

narrowly about I, but could see nothing of the man. sometimes a lump of

green water tumble over the foam would show like his head, and my

heart would leap: but the next moment the clear sea would roll away from

the blow froth and explain what the deception be. we pull to the

buoy, but it be empty.



“then one of the man say, ‘suppose even Bill have not be hurt by the

fall, surely he couldn’t live in such a sea as this.’ and another say,

‘think of his wrap and oilskin, sir. the good swimmer in the world

couldn’t hold up all these minute under such drag.’ but they speak not

as if they wish to give up, but as if prepare themselves for the

disappointment. have he hurt himself more than we could know? be he

break and die when he touch the water, and be his struggle there

the despairing effort of a broken and die man? we strain our eye,

but could see nothing save the boil head of the sea which came

roar down upon we and threaten with every desperate swing to fill

the boat. still we keep up heart. ‘another pull, boy! impossible to go

back without he!’ I would cry, whilst the two fellow in the bottom

be chuck the water out over the side, and the thickness stand like

a wall around.



“well, for three-quarter of an hour do we hang about, pull in all

direction, and think only of find and save he; and then we

give up and look round for the ship. I could not see she. I sing out

to the man, ‘do you see the ship?’ and they turn their head upon

their shoulder to look; and the chap in the bow cry out, when we be

stand nearly end on up the side of a sea, ‘there she be, I think.’



“well, to be sure, I could see she, but it might as well have be the

thickening of the mist that way as the ship, for she make a shadow

scarcely noticeable, and I look with dismay at the distance that lay

before we to row over, and at the water that be come into the boat as

fast as the two man could bale it out, and at the terrible sea around

we. we have get into such a situation that the sea run right abeam, and

every send drive we to leeward, and sometimes the mist sweep down so

thick that there be never a man of we all who could see the ship,

though, thank be to Heaven, it do not come to our lose sight of she

for good. it be a bad job for we that the heaving and straining of the

boat cause she to leak bad and bad. but for she leak I could

have put the two man who be bale she to the oar, and they would

have be just the sort of help we want; instead of which they be

scarcely able to prevent the boat from fill. it would, however, have

be destruction to we to have set more man than those two at the job

they be on. every moment be precious; the afternoon be fast wane;

in a short while the night would be upon we, and I know quite surely

that if it come before we fetch the ship we be doom man. oh, sir,

it be a fierce bit of labour. in the midst of our struggle a squall of

sleet blow down and hide the whole surface of the ocean to within our own

length of we; but it clear off, and when it be go the mist thin

somewhat, and give we a well view of the ship, at whose peak we could

see a colour streaming as a signal of recall. never be any man of we

near to death in his life than he be during the time we occupy in

reach the vessel. that we do reach she you may reckon, or I should

not be here to tell you this story. but by the hour we have pull across

her head and drop along the port side of she, the water in the boat

be up to the thwart, we show scarce more than our gunwale, it be

almost dark, the sea have increase in volume, and the wind be blow

half a hurricane. we be fairly exhausted when we gain the deck, but

humbly grateful as we be for the preservation of our life, ne’er a

one of we could cast a look over the quarter in the place where our

shipmate have go down, and where the darkness of the evening now lay,

with the white foam show with startling clearness upon the side of

those black rush hill, without feel that our thankfulness would

have be deep have we be allow to rescue the man whom we have be

very near to lose our life to save.”









_in an open BOAT._





Loneliness have many form. it be Selkirk, imprison in an island, with

nothing but the wash of the surf to break the shocking stillness; it be

the mountain-climber miss his way, and pass the long night amid

the tremendous silence of tower hill and black valley; or it be the

loneliness describe by Byron, that of a man solitary in crowd. but

what sense of solitude can equal that feel by shipwreck man in a small

open boat, surround by a universe of water, with no other chance for

their life than such as a pass ship may bring? it be not the first

hour, nor yet the first day; the agony of such a trial lie in the slow

maddening of the mind by fruitless expectation; the deception of the

white shoulder of cloud, which look like ship as they seem to linger

a moment upon the horizon before sail above it; the straining of the

aching sight against the pitiless, vacant sea-line; the sense that death

be close at hand, though a hundred death may have be suffer before

the skeleton’s clutch be upon the sufferer.



no kind of human anguish be more terrible, and no story catch a

tight hold of the imagination than those which relate it. generation

have shudder, and generation will yet shudder over the grand and

soul-move description in “Don Juan.” the raft of the _Medusa_ be an

immortal horror. the narrative which be at once the most fascinating

and depress in the marine record be always those which concern the

suffering of human being adrift in an open boat in the midst of a

great ocean. the deep be unchanging in the misery it work. our ship

be of iron; they be propel through the calm sea by an irresistible

power fast than a gale of wind would drive they; they be of

proportion so colossal that many of they could sle the “tall

schippe” of our forefather over their side, and stow they on skid as

they stow their boat; and yet just the same sort of suffering be

endure now by mariner as be experience by they in the day when a

vessel of thirty ton be reckon big enough not only to seek the

North-West Passage but to hunt the unnavigated ocean after continent.



I hear once a story that seem fitter for the lip of an ancient

mariner, like Coleridge’s, than the mouth of a seaman who live in an

age in which the Atlantic be cross in eight day, and in which the

Cape of Good Hope have be pretty nearly extinguish by a narrow

water-way across a hundred mile of sand. the hearing it take I back in

imagination to the day of the ship _Thomas_ of Liverpool, the _Lady

Hobart_ packet, the Yankee ship _Peggy_, the French East India Company’s

_Prince_, and I know not how many more old craft which age since become

phantom vessel, to be wreck again and again upon the dark and

noiseless ocean of tradition.



“my name,” begin my informant, “be William Pearce. I have use the sea

for above eight and twenty year, have sail in all kind of ship in

all sort of capacity--boy, ordinary seaman, sailmaker, bo’sun’s mate;

cross the Atlantic seventeen time, and be round the world eight;

be shipwreck thrice; likewise overboard during seven hour of

darkness, and pick up at daybreak with my head in a lifebuoy; know

pretty nigh the good and the bad of the weather that’s to be find at

sea; and be, therefore, capable of take my oath to this, that of all

the bad job that ever I be in or that ever I hear of any other sailor

be in, there’s nothing to beat the suffering we man of the schooner

_Richard Warbrick_ have to endure when the foundering of that vessel

oblige we to take to the boat.



“the schooner sail from Runcorn with a cargo of coal for Plymouth.

she be twenty year old, and a trifle over a hundred ton burden. there

be five of a crew, and nothing particular happen until we be

abreast of the Bristol Channel, when there blow up a heavy gale of wind

from the east’ard. there’s no call to describe it; it be of the regular

kind, full of wet, and raise a sea a sight too big for a vessel of one

hundred ton pretty nigh chock-a-block with coal and with twenty year

of hard use in her hull. however, we scrape through the gale and two or

three more that follow fast, until one morning we be somewhere

betwixt the Scilly Isles and the cornish coast. it be dark, thick

weather, blow and rain hard, the sea rough, bitter cold--as you

may calculate it be, the month be January--and everything invisible

that be more than half a mile off. the wind be east and north, and we

be ratche along under very small canvas, when, be turn in, as

it be my watch below, and the land o’ Nod close aboard, I be rouse up

by a loud cry on deck and a tremendous crash. I tumble up as fast as

ever I could pelt, and find the schooner go down and the man get

the only boat we carry overboard. it be no time for question. you

could feel the vessel settle under your foot, just like stand on

soft mud and sink in it. the sea be wash over the deck, and

grow heavy as her bulwark sink lower. there be nothing but white

water to be see on the starboard bow--no rock, nothing show above

the froth; but I don’t want any one to tell I that we have run foul of

the Seven Stones. there be no time to do more than launch the boat and

roll into she. Daly be the last man in, and scarce have he jump when

the schooner plump clean out of sight, go down like a deep-sea

lead, so suddenly that it take my breath away.



“there’s no sensation bad than that a man feel when he look for the

ship he’s be force to abandon and find she vanish under the sea.

the ocean never seem so wide as then. the whole world appear to be

make of water. sailor be a class of man little give to talk, and

when they come clear of such job as this they say next to nothing about

it, and so people think that either they’re man without the capacity of

feeling, or else their suffering be not equal to what might be

suppose. have people who take these view be in that boat along with

we, they’d look sharp in alter their opinion. the suddenness of the

disaster--our be one moment safe, and the next tossing on the sea in

a small boat, with the schooner go, nothing save but what we stand

in, not a morsel of food nor a drop of drink of any kind, the wind

blow fit to freeze the eye out of our head, every mother’s son of

we soak to the skin, and drift fast away towards the Atlantic--take

our sense away for a spell. we sit hold on and stare like daft

man. the captain be the first to rally.



“he call out, ‘a bad job; it’s a bad job, lad!’ several time, and

then say, ‘no use let she drive too fast. we mustn’t let she blow

away into the ocean;’ and with that we lash the two oar to the

painter and fling ’em overboard.



“this bring her head to wind and slow her drift; but, for all that,

every hour be carry we far and far towards the open sea, and

away from the Scilly Isles and the cornish coast, which be our good

chance, so that all the hope that be leave we be be pick up by a

pass vessel. yet there could be no bad month in the year than

January for that likelihood. how long be the gale and the frost go

to let we last? we be far to the nor’ard of the fairway, in a part of

the sea that every vessel be bind to give a wide berth to. the

weather, as I have say, be so thick that you couldn’t see half a mile

off, and though of course it be sure to clear in time and open out the

horizon, so that vessel could have a view around they, the question be

where should we be when it come on fine?



“unlike a good many other who have go through such dreadful mess as

this, our suffering begin the moment we tumble into the boat. in the

low latitude that ever I be in I never feel such cold. have the

water be fresh our clothe would have freeze into covering of ice. the

air be full of spray, and squall of sleet came roll up. we sit in

the bottom of the boat in a lump, to keep she steady, and for the

shelter of one another’s body, and those who be to windward--that

be, in the fore part--would shift from time to time, and other take

their place. we have no mast nor sail, nothing but the two oar we ride

to. it be a Monday, and all through the daylight we sit lift our

eye above the gunwale, and try to pierce the haze for a vessel. it

be blow about half a gale of wind, and it keep steady. now and then

we’d ship a dose of water, and bale it out with our cap; but it keep

our foot soak, and I reckon it be bad than be without boot at

all. the boat do well, and the oar be a kind of breakwater, and

help she. after four in the afternoon the night draw on. we never

could get use to the darkness. the daytime be bad enough, but the

night make our suffering madden. the wind, when the sea be black,

would take the feel of solid ice; we couldn’t see one another, and that

make talk a kind of foolishness, and so we never speak, which cause

every one to feel himself a lonely man upon the sea. likewise the noise

of the water would sound strong. in the daytime I take no notice, but

at night I’d find myself listen to the crying of the wind up in the

dark, and the hissing that rise all over the ocean from the breaking of

the wave.



“I don’t know what my mate do; but that first night I never close my

eye, never try to shut they, never think of sleep. I see the dawn

come, but the haze be too thick to let the light show on the horizon;

it be overhead as well as around, when the morning break; there be no

darkness that you’ll find hang in the west at daybreak. indeed, I

believe the sun be up above the sea before any light come, so thick it

be. all the man be awake, and dreadful they look, as of course I

do. one of they be name Burke. I notice he at once, and think he

be die. he lie athwartship with his back against the starboard side

of the boat, and there be a strange working in his finger, like the

movement of a woman’s hand open a skein of thread.



“the captain say, ‘for God’s sake look around, lad, and see if there’s

anything in sight.’



“the sea run high, and make it dangerous for any of we to stand up, for

fear of capsize the boat; so we hang over the gunwale with our chin

on a level with it, and stare into the drive smother with all our

might: but there be nothing to be see but the break sea when we

be hove up, and the water stand like wall on either hand when we

drop into the trough. all at once Burke sit up and begin to sing out

for a drink of water. he talk as if he believe we have it and wouldn’t

give it, which be the first sign of his insanity. the captain try to

pacify he, speak very kindly, and seek to cheer he.



“‘we have outlive a day and a night,’ say he. ‘keep up your heart,

mate; we may have a thousand-ton ship under we before it come dark

again.’



“but Burke keep on cry for water, say that he be die for it,

and point to his throat; and then, fall on all four, he put his

face to the salt water wash about in the bottom of the boat and

suck up several mouthful. well, it seem to do he no hurt, and he

lie quiet. soon after this I spy something knock about in the sea a

few fathom astern, and call the skipper’s attention to it. he say it

be one of some keg of butter that have be aboard the schooner, so we

pull the oar in and drop down to it and pick it up. we break it

open and eat the butter in fistful, be mad with hunger; but it be

as salt as brine, and the effect of it be to make our thirst rage.

the knife we have use to open the keg lie in the bottom of the boat, and

Burke, on a sudden turning over, seize hold of it, jump up, and fall

upon the captain. he hit he once, but the knife don’t pierce through

the thick jacket the skipper have on, and, before he could raise his hand

again, we drag he down and kneel upon he.



“there be no bad part in all that dreadful time than this. the

madman’s face be a terrible sight; almost black it be. he snap

about he with his tooth, and his cry and curse be thing it bring

the sweat upon my face to talk about. think of our situation, mad with

thirst ourselves and struggle with a madman, a kill north-easter

blow like knife through our frozen body, the sea leap and

roar around we, and nothing between we and the bottom but the little

old boat we be in. we be too weak, and in too much suffering

ourselves, to remain hold the madman down, and find he quiet we

let go, and squat one close to another for warmth; but scarcely have

we haul off from the poor wretch when he jump up and throw himself

overboard. ‘mind!’ shout the skipper, ‘one’s enough!’ fear that if

we all get to the side Burke have leap from we should upset the boat. I

be the near, and as he come up close I lean over, and get he by

the hair, and drag he into the boat. he be pretty nigh dead, and

give we no more trouble.



“well, sir, the night come down a second time, find we live, but

without the look of live man. I make sure I should never see another

daybreak. my thirst be not so sharp as it have be; but I don’t know

whether the dull throbbing in my throat, the kind of lockjaw feeling in

my mouth, the burning in my tongue as though it be a lump of hot iron,

be not more torturing than when the craving be fiercer. all night long

it blow a strong wind, with now and then a squall of sleet and rain, and

hour after hour two of the man, Parsons and Daly, be groan in the

bottom of the boat. when the light come, I look to see who be alive,

and my eye fall on Burke, I call out, ‘dead!’ the captain lean

down and feel he, and say, ‘yes, he’s go. he’s the first. God have

mercy upon we!’ and catch hold of my shoulder he stand up to search

the sea, but the haze be as thick as it have be all the time, and he

throw himself down with his hand over his face. presently, look at

the body, he say, ‘we must bury he; but first, my lad, let we say a

prayer for he and for ourselves.’ we all knelt while the captain

pray, and when he have do we lift the body and let it go overboard.



“the madness that thirst create break out strong in Daly and Parsons

when the body be go, and down they drop as Burke have, and lap

up the salt water in the bottom of the boat like dog would. the captain

implore they not to drink, but they never heed he nor I, who

likewise entreat they. however, no harm seem to come of it. well,

sir, there’s no need for I to describe that Wednesday nor our third

night in that open boat. Thursday morning come, make the fourth day,

and to our joy the weather clear, the wind shift and moderated, and

the sea go down. we get the oar in, rig up one as a mast, and two

of we have oilskin coat on, we join they so as to form a sail, make

a yard of the other oar, and put the boat before the wind, which be

blow a light breeze from the south’ard, head, as the captain

judge, for the irish coast. all the day long we keep a wild look-out,

as you may reckon, for any pass ship; but never once, not in the

furth distance, do such an object heave in sight. we might have be

sailing in the middle of the Pacific. nature in we be almost numb. we

have come to such a pass that we be too faint and exhausted to feel the

craving of hunger and thirst. at least I can speak for myself, and it’s

in that way I account for my suffering less at the end than I do at

the beginning of the dreadful time we go through. it be still cold,

but nothing like the bitter cold of the gale and the heavy sea and

squall. we reckon by the sun that the wind hang steady, and we let

the boat slip before it; that be all that could be do. if we be to

sail at all we be bind to keep the breeze over our starn, see

there be nothing to draw but a couple of oilskin secure to the oar.



“but the come on of Thursday night be like the bitterness of death

itself, sir. indeed it be. all day long we have reckon upon sight

something before the sun go. every hour we have hope and pray and

believe would heave up some sort of vessel to come to our rescue; and

therefore, when it draw up black, only a few star among the slow

cloud, and we be bring face to face with another long winter’s

night, my heart fail I altogether; I feel that there be a curse upon

we, and that we be doom man, single out to die of famine, the most

cruel of death, because the long. think of ninety-six hour in an

open boat, in January, in the Chops, a north-east gale blow most of

the time, with never a morsel of food except the salt butter, and no

drink but the salt water washing in the boat! and yet when the Friday

morning come we be still alive, the captain steering, double up with

faintness and the cold, his knee against his mouth, and his head

loll for want of strength in his neck; Daly and Parsons lie still

as dead man under the thwart, and I in the bow, too weak and

break-hearte even to cast my eye around the sea to notice if there

be a vessel in sight.



“the morning pass; the afternoon pass. be we to go through another

night? the sun be within half of an hour of his setting when Parsons,

who be lean his breast on the gunwale, stand upright and point.

his mouth be full of froth, and as he try to speak the foam fly out

of his lip, but no word he speak; it be naught but a kind of

death-rattle in his throat. we all look in the direction he point

to, and see a large sailing-vessel head right down for we. how we

watch she! all of we stand up, never speak, and only move with

the roll and toss of the boat. it take she an hour to approach we, and

then she hove we a line; but her people have to sle we aboard. none of

we could move. nothing but the excitement of see she have allow we

to stand. the moment the line be in the boat and we be alongside, we

all become as helpless as baby.



“the vessel’s name, sir? she be the austrian barque _Grad Karlovak_,

command by so humane a man that I feel fit to cry when I think of he

and his kindness to we poor miserable shipwreck english sailor.

that’s the story, sir, or as much of it as there be any call to relate.

five day and four night in the month of January, in an open boat, most

of the time blow heavily! the tale’s know at Plymouth--it’s know at

Runcorn--it’s know to Mr. Hopkins, the agent of the Shipwrecked

Mariner’s Society at Plymouth. and I’ll tell you somebody else it’s

know to, sir--some one as’ll swear to every word of it; and that’s

I.”









_wait for a ship._





the Shipping Office in Tower Hill be a place where seaman, fireman,

stoker, and other assemble in the hope that captain in want of crew

will come and pick out the good man among they to “sign on,” as it be

call. I be induce to visit it the other day by hear a sailor

complain bitterly of the filthy state of it. “neglect,” say he, “be our

lot; but the condition of that shipping office beat my time. it’s all

dirt and Dutchmen, and if ye want to see something to make you

reflective, just trot down the step and take a turn round the yard the

next time you’re pass that way.” when finally I do trot down the

step I find myself in a kind of courtyard, flank on the one hand by

the shipping office--grimy door, lead into gloomy interior--and on

the other hand by a species of shed, partition into stone room, with

hard and painful seat against the wall, and unwholesome draught of

dampish wind eddy about they. it be a gloomy day--rain have fall,

and pool of muddy water gleam here and there in the yard; the brown

and stoop London sky threaten more wet, and fling a shadow that

make the shipping office and its yard and its condemn-cell-like room

under the shed an unspeakably cheerless, depressing, and miserable

picture. some sixty or seventy man stand or move about in group in

the yard, or be seat in the cell under the shed. I be hardly

prepared to witness so large an assembly, and remain near the step

for a little while survey they. a few of they be decently

attire--one or two respectably and comfortably dress in good clothe

and clean linen; but a large proportion of they be, so far as their

costume go, little well than scarecrow. some be clothe merely in

shirt and trouser, with their naked foot thrust into old shoe or

boot; here and there be a red or blue shirt, or a figure button up

in such a manner as to suggest that under the ragged old coat there be

no shirt at all. “and be this,” think I, “the british sailor of the

nineteenth century?--is this the original of those rubicund feature,

those flow breech, that tarpaulin hat on nine hair, those

well-polish shoe twinkle in the light-hearted measure of the

hornpipe, which be offer by novelist, dramatist, and theatre

lessee as accurate representation of the jolly tar we be so fond of

join in chorus about, and whom we gaze at with such patriotic

enthusiasm as he hitch up his breech, turn his quid, and smite his

timber?” every crowd of human face be full of variety, but no crowd

that ever I look at have the variety submit by the countenance of

these sixty or seventy man who be “wait for a ship.” the negro’s

face--flat, bland, and open-mouthed--be, of course, not want. square

cheek, hollow cheek, high cheek; complexion black, brown, and

yellow; eye of every pattern and shade--from the small, twinkle blue

of the north-country to the filmy and red-web optic of the

gin-soak Cockney--combine, with the different build and shape of the

man, the appearance of their clothe, the various head-covering, to

make up a truly singular scene. I step forward and get among a

little bunch of man, of whom, address myself to one, I ask what

sort of shelter that dirty and wretched shed and those bleak and stony

cell offer in the winter, when the wind blow with an edge and the

sleet and rain fall. no notice have be take of I before, but on my

make this inquiry the eye of the whole group be fix upon I, and

half a dozen voice answer at once. the meaning of the reply be

lose in the confusion, but the noise be like a signal; for I can truly

say that within a few second of my having ask that question every man

in that yard and every man that have be lounge in the cell have

gather about I, so that before I very well know what be happen I

find myself--pretty tightly squeeze--in the centre of a mass of man,

the outer portion of whom press eagerly upon the inner to hear and

see what be go forward. it be like a mutiny on a large scale, and

when I look around at the mass of face, and taste the tobacco-laden

breath of the near people blow hot against my cheek, I feel that

nothing be want to complete the suggestion of revolt but the gleam of

a score of sheath-knife flourish in the air. “give I a little room,

my lad,” say I, work with my elbow; and, having free myself

somewhat, I say, “there seem no lack of man here; captain ought to

find no difficulty in man their ship.”



“they don’t want Englishmen; it’s dutchman they take,” shout two or

three voice.



“here’s a man,” call out some one, point into the left of the

crowd, “who’s be walk this yard for five month.”



“five month, as true as the word I use be English,” bawl a hoarse

voice. “but they willn’t have I because my name’s Johnson. if it be

unk von dunk I’d ha’ be woyage o’er and o’er again in the time

I’ve be kick my heel about starve here.”



“Scoffen von Romp would do as well,” say a man near I. “don’t matter

what the name be so long as it sound Dutch.”



“by Dutch I suppose you mean foreigner of all kind?” say I.



“ay, they’re all Dutchmen!” be the shout.



“but why be it that dutchman be prefer to Englishmen?” I ask.



the hubbub raise by this oblige I to hold up my hand and entreat

silence; but it would not do. every man’s mind be full of the

grievance, and, amid the chorus of reply, I barely succeed in

catch such answer as--“Dutchmen’ll ship for two pound a month!”

“Dutchmen’ll eat anything!” “englishman willn’t put up with the mess

Dutchmen’ll swallow!” “skipper can rope’s-end Dutchmen, but they

durs’n’t serve Englishmen so!” “it’s the dutch crimp as do it!” and

so forth.



it be difficult to hear these cry and watch the sea of surge head

and face around I with unmoved gravity. there be something to touch

the very dull capacity of appreciate the ridiculous in the

astonishing contrast of physiognomy, and in the multifarious

expression which adorn the poor fellow’ countenance; but I be not

sure that the appeal make to my laughter do not owe much of its force

to the sorrowful element in it--to a quality of pathos lie close to

humour. many of these face have a pinched look, that be painfully

expressive of want, if not of positive starvation; and sad indeed, it

seem to I, be the sight of it in man who carry the manner of real

seaman, and who appear to I to be fit for any forecastle afloat, and

for any duty that a sailor be expect to understand.



“I suppose you all come here with certificate of conduct in your

pocket?” say I, when the hubbub have cease.



instantly a crowd of fist be thrust under my nose, fill with

document, and “here’s mine!” and “here’s mine!” “V. G. every one of

’em!” be roar out in twenty or thirty voice. I look at some of

these certificate, and find the letter “V. G.” (very good) endorse

on the back of all that I examine.



“D’ye want to ship, sir?” sing out a fellow whilst I be glance over

these paper. “I’ve get two V. G. certificate in my pocket, and as I’ve

not have anything to eat to-day you shall have ’em both for a couple of

shilling.”



“be certificate often sell in this fashion?” say I, of a

quiet-look man stand alongside of I.



“sell!” he exclaim indignantly; “what’s to hinder ’em? if a man stick

to the name that’s on the certificate, who’s to know? and so ye get man

ship themselves with false character, no more fit for sailor’ work

than if they wos greengrocer.”



“perhaps that’s one reason why skipper and owner prefer Dutchmen to

englishman,” say I. but this raise another storm; they shout that

more rascality go on in that way among Dutchmen than british sailor;

that the reason be not that, but because, as I have hear, Dutchmen

ship for wage no Englishman would look at, and put up with food,

accommodation, and treatment which no Englishman would endure, and

likewise because there be a deal of underhand crimping work go on

between the foreign boarding-house runner and mate and captain, and

so on.



here the emotion of these sixty or seventy man bring they press

so heavily around I, that my anxiety to hear their statement be

swamp in the labour of breathing and the struggle to liberate myself.

I bawl to they to make way, as I want to have a look at the room

under the shed; on which they draw back and let I out, though they

follow at my heel as I pass from one room to another, talk and

argue hotly, call marine blessing down on the head of all

Dutchmen, and wonder what good it be nowadays be bear an

Englishman, when even a Finn, whom, in the olden time, no sailor like

to be shipmate with, be think a well man? the room be

middle-sized, damp, dark, and dirty compartment, and be mean to

serve as waiting-room for the unhappy creature who throng the bleak

and frowsy yard in the hope of be engage by captain. it be like

be in the dungeon in the Tower of London--which, by the way, stand

close at hand--to pass through these death-cold apartment and view the

legend, dictate by hopeless waiting, roughly scrawl in pencil upon

the wall. dirt and soot everywhere!--on the ceiling, on the floor, on

the wall, on the bench, in the very atmosphere that fill the

cheerless haunt. a strip of grating run through the floor, disclose

the outline of a hot-water pipe; but it look, in that grave, the very

corpse of a heating apparatus; and when I ask if ever these stone

room be make warm by that old, mouldy, dirt and soot cover

contrivance, the only answer I get be a loud growl laugh, as if,

exquisite as be the joke, it be likewise very offensive. and this,

think I, as I stand gaze with mingled astonishment and disgust at

the picture of grime, neglect, and dirt, be the great London shipping

office, the medium for the vast and ever-grow port of London for the

transaction of business between the master and crew of ship! who be

these man who come here in the hope of obtain employment by man

the fleet we be never weary of extoll as the source of Great

Britain’s wealth and power, that they should be use in this

manner--furnish for their long, weary, and often hopeless wait with

accommodation fouler, unwholesomer, cold, more soul-depressing than

the bad prison that ever excite the horror and provoke the

denunciation of the philanthropist?



“have this place,” I ask, “be long in this condition?”



“it use to be keep a little more decent,” be the reply; “but it’s be

fall from bad to bad for many a month go. consider the fees[A]

we sailor have to pay, it’s a shame that we should have to put up with

a place which no farmer who value the life of his hog would stow ’em

in. I’ve be day after day down here, from the opening hour till the

closing at four o’clock, for six week, hope to be engage; and I tell

you, sir, that a man need be to be bear a gutter-snipe, use to sleep

all his life under railway arch and the like of they place, not to

feel the effect of such a slum as this upon his spirit, when day after

day go by and he have to keep on wait here for a captain to single

he out. you be see it now in summer, when the air’s warm; think of

it in winter, sir, with the slush a foot thick, and the wind blow

into those waiting-room fit to turn your marrow into ice.”



the Board of Trade be responsible for the conduct and keeping of this

office. have the official of that great department any conception of

the state of the place? be it ever visit by they? do they know

anything more about it than that it be situate somewhere in the

neighbourhood of Tower Hill? nothing more disgraceful be to be find in

London.



by degree the man leave I, to resume their weary trudging up and down

or to draw together in group; on which, find that I should be able

to converse without the risk of suffocation, I go up to a

well-look, decently-dress sailor-man, on whom I have have my eye for

some time previously, and ask how long he have be wait for a ship.



“it will be three week to-morrow,” he reply.



“what be your certificate?”



“I have four in my pocket,” he answer, produce they; and I find

that he have serve in the several capacity of boatswain, sailmaker,

and able seaman aboard sailing-vessel belong to some of the good

firm in London.



“how long have you be at sea?”



“thirty year,” he reply.



“and be it possible,” say I, run my eye over his neat suit of pilot

cloth, his clean blue shirt, and silk handkerchief, and admire his

unmistakably sailorly appearance, and the frank expression in his tanned

face, “that in this age, when one hear so many complaint of the

difficulty of procure good seaman, that a man who have be thirty

year at sea, fill responsible post, and hold honest voucher to his

efficiency and good conduct, cannot get a ship! what countryman be

you?”



“a Scotchman--an Aberdeen man.”



“wouldn’t the last ship you be in take you again?”



“she discharge at Cardiff, and be now for sale. my wife live just out

of the Commercial Road, and that’s why I’m in London,” he answer. “I

have only be home a week when I try to get a ship again, for I’m a

poor man.”



“what be you willing to ship as?”



“as anything; I’m too poor to choose, sir. I’ll go as A. B. if I can get

the berth. but this hang about be eat up all our little saving.”



“why cann’t you get a berth?” say I.



“because the captain willn’t take Englishmen,” he say.



“what be their objection?”



“oh,” say he, “objection be easily make if they’re want. captain

say that english crew desert, that they’re loafer, bad seaman, expect

more wage than they’re worth, and that the good of we be no well

than vagrant, turnpike sailor, who’ll never work so long as there’s a

police-magistrate within hail, and who’ll soger[B] when they’re at sea.

that may be true of some, but it’s false if say of the rest; and,

depend upon it, sir, it don’t account for eighty per cent. of the man

employ in the mercantile marine be ‘dutchman.’ our argument--the

English sailor’s argument--be this: there be a lot of foreign

boarding-house keeper in London. we’ll take one of ’em. he have, say,

twenty Dutchmen in his house, who pay he, each of ’em, sixteen

shilling a week. well, sir, most of these man have no mean to last

their expense much beyond a fortnight; so the boarding-house keeper or

runner say, ‘look here, my lad, you cann’t stay here. I must get you a

ship, and you’ll pay I five shilling apiece out of your allotment

note for do it.’ to this they’re agreeable. the runner then go

down to a ship with his pocket full of his man’s certificate, hand

they, along with a bribe, to the mate or master, who bring ’em to this

office, and the Dutchmen, who’ve be tell by the runner to come to

Tower Hill, be call in to sign article. it pay the runner, who get

five shilling a man for ship they, besides his other expense out

of the allotment note, which he discount at about fifty per cent.; and

it answer the purpose of the skipper, who pocket the bribe, and come

down to find a crew all ready cut and dry for he; but it leave we

englishman out in the cold, kick our heel about, starve many of

we, and stand no shadow of a chance against the underhand roguery

that go on.”



“this be a grave charge to bring against captain,” say I.



“Grave or not,” he reply, “go and ask the opinion of british seaman

all round the coast, and see whether or not this crimping swindle be

understand by they and take as the evil that’s fill english ship

with foreigner.”



“but this kind of rascality be provide against, for the Act say that

any person who receive any remuneration whatever other than the

authorize fee for provide a seaman with employment incur a penalty

of twenty pound.”



“Act or no Act,” he answer contemptuously, “it’s do every day; it’s

do every hour.”



“cann’t you englishman catch one of these ‘dutch’ crimp and make an

example of he?”



“it’s carry on so that it’s hard to prove,” he reply. “Dutchmen

willn’t give evidence against one another; besides, the man sail away and

be lose sight of, and there’s no see how to get at the runner.”



“what be the remedy, then; what be it you want?” I ask.



“we english sailor want this,” he say; “we ask that captain shall

come to the Shipping Office and pick crew out of the crowd; not go and

take certificate from crimp, and come down to find a crew ready

beforehand, to step in as they’re call in. give we a fair chance along

with the Dutchmen. if already eighty per cent. of the crew in English

ship be foreigner, what’s to happen later on when there’ll not be an

Englishman find in the forecastle of a ship that fly the red ensign?

why, the whole breed of sailors’ll die out. talk of Jack be a

skulker, a scaramouch, a no-sailor! what’s the good of abuse he if

you don’t give he a chance? it be say not long ago that owner mean

to ship black crew, so hard do they find it to get Englishmen to act

honestly by their employer. but look at this,” say he, pull a

newspaper cut from his pocket--“look at this account of three Arabs,

two Egyptians, and a negro lock up for thirty day for refuse to

serve as fireman after they have sign article; receive three pound

apiece in money, and then strike because they want a month’s

advance; get it, and then refuse duty because they say they

couldn’t get the allotment note cash; receive the money from the

captain, and still refuse duty, and threaten to cut the captain’s

throat. those be black man. suppose they have be Englishmen?

dutchman! why, sir, the most dreadful mutiny that ever happen have

take place aboard vessel man with foreigner. captain and owner

know that. and do any man suppose,” he continue, speak with great

warmth, “that if England should find herself at war with foreign

nation, the dutchman who man her merchant ship wouldn’t carry ’em into

the enemy’s port? why, in crowd our forecastle with foreigner,

sir, we’re strike the heavy blow that could be aim at this

nation; we’re stop all chance of recruit the navy with seaman to

fight our battle; and we’re put our property into the hand of

stranger who hate we, and who’d betray we by run away with it at

the sound of the very first gun that be fire in anger.” and so say

he touch his cap, and leave I to make my way out of the gloomy, dirty,

melancholy haunt, follow as far as the step that lead up to the street

by several man petition I to “do something for they,” “to get ’em a

ship,” “to help they out of this starve life.”



Sailors be man of strong prejudice, and will often take wrong-head

view of thing. to what extent my informant speak the truth, those who

have a wide knowledge of the inner life of the mercantile marine will

judge. but certainly I cannot persuade myself that shipmaster act the

part in relation to the foreign crimp which my seaman charge they with.

I will go far, and assert that the shipment of foreign seaman be

due, not to the british captain’s dislike of the english sailor, but to

his owner’s order that he shall man the vessel with “Dutchmen” only. but

these admission must still leave the current system of crowd the

english forecastle with foreigner an unmixed evil; nor do they affect

the british sailor’s declaration as regard the energetic agent the

foreign crimp, runner, or boarding-house keeper be allow to be in the

recruiting of our mercantile marine. the subject be one that will

probably in due course command attention. it be as unreasonable as it be

impolitic that the “Dutchman” should be caress and honour with the

full confidence of british employer while the english seaman, willing

to work, be leave to starve or decay. from shipmaster and mate, at

least, some sympathy should be expect for he, for they be largely

share in the neglect he be visit with, and find themselves oust

out of their berth by foreigner. the english sailor have many fault,

but he certainly be not so bad but that he may be make well if

something of the old good will be show he, and something of the old

helpful hand extend to he; and, let his demerit be what they will,

depend upon it he be the man who should be find aboard an english ship,

and that a fair speciman of he be worth as many “Dutchmen” as he have

finger.









_skipper’ wife AT SEA._





should owner allow captain to take their wife to sea with they?

opinion vary among master mariner on this head. some think that a man

have as much right to be take care of at sea as ashore; that shirt,

button, and linen want as much look after in a ship as in a house;

that captain be always the well for have their wife with they,

because when in port they have an inducement to stop by the vessel and

spend their evening in the cabin, instead of roam ashore at

nightfall and bring up in bad and perilous anchorage; and they also

reason that a ship and cargo be bind to be render the safe by the

captain’s wife be on board, as the skipper be sure then to be

vigilant and keep his weather-eye lifting. of course a cynic might say

that so far as regard the safety of the ship, and the inducement to

the skipper to spend his evening when in harbour aboard of she, a good

deal must depend upon the lady as wife and companion. I once meet a

captain who tell I that he question whether an insurance could be

effect on his ship and cargo be it to be suspect that he have any

intention of carry his wife to sea with he. “we’re always

quarrel,” say he--a remark that save I from ask he more

question. but what do the wife think? be owner’ objection to their

accompany their husband agreeable to they? it be quite possible for

a woman to love a sailor without love the sea; and though owner

deserve no praise for their hard and fast rule touching captain’ wife,

as there be not an atom of sentimental regard for the lady in it, I

cannot but think it a good rule, as it save many a woman from follow

her husband into a life to which nothing could have court she but the

sense of wifely duty. after all, what sailor would willingly subject the

woman he love to the peril of the deep by take she with he voyage

after voyage? the farewell, it be true, be hard to say; the shot be

often low in the locker, and she and the child will have a hard job

to scrape through the month while father be absent: but then she be

safe, there be no gale of wind to affright she, no mutiny, no

collision; the little home can never be water-log, nor can there

ever arise the need of take to the boat and perish of famine after

a week of unspeakable anguish. there have, indeed, be many heroine

among captain’ wife, many brave and some truly heroical act perform

by they whilst at sea with their husband. nothing, for instance, in its

way be ever more striking than the conduct of the wife of the captain

of the _Edgar_. all the crew, with the exception of the captain and

mate, be prostrate with sickness. the ship be homeward bind from

Senegal, and the captain and mate have to work in the engine-room, whilst

the wife steer. in this way the vessel be safely bring home,

though, as be relate in the newspaper at the time, seven of the crew

die of the fever on the voyage. here, perhaps, be a valuable ship

save by a captain’s wife, for without she it be difficult to imagine

what the other two could have do; and those skipper who think owner

unjust in force they to go to sea _en garçon_ should quote the case of

the _Edgar_ as a very strong commercial argument--the only sort that be

likely to prove successful--in favour of their view. but, as Lord Bacon

say of dancing, so may I say of such instance as this: the well the

bad. the great the marine danger in which woman distinguish

themselves, the more resolve should husband be to guard their wife

against the like risk. if it be always fine weather; if chart be

always perfectly accurate; if there be no fog and no shoal; if there

be no danger in iron pyrite; if all surveyor be above suspicion;

iron ship as well construct as they be highly classed; stevedore

scientific people; and if vessel be build by rule of common sense

instead of be the fragile product of a system of economy render

vicious by insurance; then, indeed--the maritime millennium having

arrive--might all skipper laudably combine to agitate until owner

give in, and allow wife to ship with their husband. but, while the

ocean and all the condition of the ocean-wreck, leak, piecework,

blind rivet-hole, “boat iron,” storm, thick weather, and all the rest

of it--remain as they be, captain who be good husband will keep the

lady ashore. it be only man of the Billy Taylor type who deserve to be

follow to sea; and it be only the Hannah Snells of this world who

should attempt such pursuit. over and over again one be read of the

wreck in which the captain’s wife, and too often, alas! the captain’s

little child, lose their life. the poor thing be always call

“passenger,” and it be usually the “passenger” who seem to be drown.

here be one of these story relate by the captain himself; and, take

it as a typical thing, which all seaman may know it to be, I will ask,

be it not well that owner--no matter the reason which influence

they--should object to their captain take their wife to sea with

they?



“the steamer I command be a schooner-rig vessel, build at Low

Walker, and you may call her tonnage in round number 500. she leave a

north-country port on a certain day with a crew of seventeen hand and a

cargo of coal, our destination be cronstadt. my wife be on board,

and this be the first voyage she have make with I. we have be marry

two year, and in that time I have make several trip, as you may

imagine; these voyage--as I suppose I must call a trip across the North

Sea, or a run along the Mediterranean--occupy only a few week. every

time I start, my wife want to go too; the owner have no objection,

but I have. I tell she the sea be all very well for lady passenger who

have to cross it, but it be no place for a woman to make a home of. she

would do far well keep house ashore, and make all ready for my

return; and so I would put she off. but when it come to this trip, she

plead so earnestly, say that she love the sea, that the run would

do she good, that she feel terribly lonely when I be away, and that her

place be at my side let I be where I would, that I could no long

refuse. ‘very well,’ say I, ‘for this once,’ my notion be that one

voyage would do more for my wish than fifty year of argue; and so

she come aboard. well, sir, at the start we have fine weather. it be in

the spring; the air be sharp, but the sky be blue and the sunshine

strong and cheerful; and my wife heartily enjoy it. there be no

sea-sickness to baulk her relish; she be too much a sailor’s lass for

that weakness. we be not much of a ship; you know the regular type,

high bow, wall-side, Plimsoll’s mark well awash, you may take your

oath, the fly-bridge over the chart-house, and the pole-compass

fork up like a scarecrow above that. but my wife think the vessel

make a fine sight--merely, I expect, because I command she. poor girl!

poor girl! often I’d come on deck and see she lean over the side,

when she’d call to I to admire the line of froth there--as if that be

a thing an old fist like I would take notice of; and if a vessel pass

she’d stand and watch it with a look of delight, as though nothing more

beautiful be ever see, though it might be an old sailing collier, sir,

with nothing show over the rail but a red night-cap, or a

steam-waggon after our own pattern. but much as she enjoy the water,

her presence never give I pleasure. I remember go below on the very

night on which the ship be lose, and look at my poor lass as she lie

sleeping, and I recall that the sight of she worry I to a degree

you’d scarcely think likely. I be for ever wish her back home, snug

and secure in the little house that she always have ready and bright and

cheerful for I to return to. you might almost think such wish

unnatural, but I see they in their proper light now, and reckon there’s

a world of truth in that old saying about come event cast their

shadow before they. it be a Tuesday afternoon. the weather have change

in the forenoon, and at midday it be blow a strong breeze from the

north-west. it have grow as cold as January, and now and again when a

squall drive up there’d come a shower of hail that be like heave a

bucket of shot on to the deck. I have keep the patent log tow astern,

our course be a trifle to the north of east, and on haul it in at

noon I find that we have make about a hundred and seventy mile run

since quit our port. there be no sight to be get, for, though the

morning have open fine, the sky be now as thick as mud. all this time

the wind be freshen up into a gale. I put the log over again,

keep the vessel on the same course, under sail, and her engine go

full ahead. the wind be well abaft the beam, the sea a follow one,

and there be nothing to stop the ship; she drive along handsomely,

whiten the water all around she, and for a couple of mile astern,

and make excellent sport for my wife, who stand hold on and take

in the scene with her eye like diamond, and her cheek like rose. I

never could have suppose that there be so much to admire in the sea as

she have find. to I it be hardly much more than a waste of salt water

that be to be cross as soon as possible, full of hard work, exposure,

poor pay, and heavy anxiety. my poor lass know nothing of that part of

it, except the pay. I think, have time be give she, and we’d been

make a long voyage, she’d have convert I into a kind of poet, and

teach I to see beauty even in thick weather and strong head sea.



“well, sir, by this time there be thick weather enough. it be three

o’clock, a gale of wind on the quarter, the sea out of sight half a mile

ahead, lose in a haze of rain, and the steamer pitching heavily as she

swing over the stormy tumble. nothing could have be more annoying than

the thick weather; the gale be good, the sea do no harm; we be

get an extra two knot out of the ship; but the haze be like your

be in a hurry, mount on a swift horse, with your eye blindfold.

however, I be determined not to slow down. Despatch be everything

nowadays. it be all very well to talk of risk, but if a man’s situation

depend upon his please his owner by be sharp, sharp he must be,

and take the odd as they come. well lose a ship and let the owner

touch the insurance than make a losing venture by tardy delivery. so, as

sailor say, we ‘hold on all,’ keep the canvas aloft and fire up

below, and race through the smother in proper modern fashion. Darker

and dark it grow, and the wind come along more fiercely. my poor lass

be frightened, and come up to I and ask what make I rush the ship

when scarcely her own length be visible. I say we couldn’t stop the

vessel; the wind be after she, and she be bind to go. ‘but you may

run into another ship,’ say she, ‘and not know she be there until you

have strike she.’ ‘ah, Polly,’ say I, ‘that sort of calculation belong

to a past age. certificate would be of no use if they be base on

such reckoning. all that we skipper have to do be to drive on. if there

be to be any trouble over a tardy delivery, do you suppose this thick

weather would be take as an excuse? other who leave, perhaps, after we

do, will have arrive before we; and the luck of one be expect to be

the luck of other.’



“it storm up hard after nightfall, and be then as dark as a vault.

I be on deck from eight till twelve, go into the chart-house

occasionally, but never into the cabin, and at midnight I haul the log

in, and find we have run about a hundred and twenty mile since noon.

the course, east by north half north, seem to I correct. it be as I

always steer on this run, and so I hold on, put the log overboard

again; and I be go below for a minute to see after my wife, when

there be a noise like the explosion of a gun forward, and some one sing

out that the fore trysail have blow away. this be a small matter; but

it be good as a hint. we take in the other canvas, and go roll

and pitch along under steam, average about seven knot, but

ship a good deal of water forward, which wash about the deck and

make walk difficult and uncomfortable. at four bell in the middle

watch I go below to get some rest, leave the chief mate in charge.

everything be right, as I suppose; a hand on the look-out on the

forecastle, plenty of water under and around we, and nothing to cause

anxiety but the haze. my wife be sound asleep. I lie down, completely

dress, on a locker, but could get no rest. this be unusual; a sailor,

they say, can sleep anywhere, and amid any sort of disturbance; and I

for one in former day have be able to sleep when it be impossible to

hear a voice call the watch, in consequence of the shrieking of the

storm on deck and the groaning of the vessel below. I have a foreboding,

an uneasiness in my mind; there be nothing to account for it, but it

keep I awake, and presently it find I stand look at my wife,

wish she to wake up, that she might talk to I, yet unwilling to

arouse she. at that moment the ship strike--I feel the grind of she

forefoot along the stony bottom; she heel over, with the engine

work their hard, and I know that she have come to a dead stop, not

only by the manner in which I be throw forward, but by the thunder of

the sea break over her deck. I rush up and hear the man

shout. it be still very thick, hail and raining in torrent. I

sing out for the mate, and he come to I, and I tell he to get the

wheel put hard aport, whilst I bawl down to the engine-room to keep

the engine go. no attention be pay to this, for the engineer,

fireman, and the other, think the vessel be go down, swarm up

on deck, and, without heed my command, turn-to to help the rest

of the crew to get the boat over. my notion be that all hand mean

to abandon the ship, and would leave my wife and I to our fate if we

do not bear a hand to join they; so I run below, and find my poor lass

dress herself and in a terrible fright. I do not wait to answer she

question, but, catch she by the hand, run on deck with she. great

heaven! what a night, what weather, what a scene for any poor girl to be

drag into! I hear the cry of man alongside, and understand by that

that one of the boat have be stave and the man in she throw out. I

shout, ‘here be my wife, man; for God’s sake, take she with you if you

intend to abandon the ship.’ the chief engineer answer, ‘bring she

here--there’s room in the starboard lifeboat.’ I run with she to the

side, and, look over, see the boat with seven or eight man in she. I

call to the man to look out, and I then put she over, give she a

kiss as I do so, and bid she have no fear; and the man catch she,

and sing out to I to let go the painter. I answer no, it would be

well to let the boat veer astern and ride there whilst I endeavour

to find out the condition of the ship; and they agree, I carry the

end of the painter aft and make it fast.



“I now call to such as remain on board to join I, but only three

man come, amongst they my two mate; all the other have get away, be

drown, or be in the boat with my wife. we could do nothing till

daylight come, and sit crouch out of the reach of the water that be

fly in heavy masse over the ship. it be as much as I could do to

see the boat astern; but every now and again I’d crawl aft to notice if

she still live, and then come back again to the other thankful to the

Almighty that she be make good weather of it, and might still save my

lass’s life. but how be I to describe my feeling as I reflect upon

what she be suffer in that open boat, pelt with the hail and rain,

the deadly cold wind penetrate her poor body, toss like a nutshell

upon the roaring sea, and never know but that the next moment would

find she struggle in the water. well, sir, the daylight come, and

show we that we be hard and fast upon a dangerous reef off the

Jutland coast. we could see the land there loom upon the haze about

four or five mile off. the ship be full of water and bind to go to

piece, though she be still hold well together in spite of the

terrible pounding of the sea. I go to the stern to hail the boat and

say a word of comfort to my wife; and when the man see I they sing out,

‘let go the painter, captain. we must take our chance of drive ashore;

it’s kill work here.’ my wife put out her arm to I, and I hear she

cry, ‘oh, don’t leave he behind!’ the boat have already as many as she

could well carry. perhaps the man fear that I would try to join my

wife, and drag the boat alongside, which might end in sink she; but I

have no thought of that kind, the gig still remain, and be about to

tell they to hold on and keep the shelter of the wreck for a spell, as

the weather might moderate presently, when a man in the bow cut the

painter. a heavy sea take the boat as he do this, swing she up and

around; she plunge into the hollow, and the water roll between,

prevent I from see she. but as it pass it hove up the boat again

bottom up, the black keel just show among a smother of foam, with

here and there the upright arm of a drown man. it be do in a

moment; it be all over in a moment; it leave I stare like a man

strike dead by lightning and hold the posture he be kill in. the

chief mate, catch I by the arm, cry out, ‘she’s go to piece,

sir. for Heaven’s sake, let’s get away. we’re doom man if we linger.’

I break from the horror and grief in I, and go to work, not so much

to save my own life as to help the other to save theirs. have I be

alone I should have throw myself down and wait for death. the shock I

have sustain have drive all instinct of life out of I. well, sir, we

get the gig overboard, and that we be save you may suppose, as I be

here to tell the story. four other man get ashore besides we, make ten

of the crew drown besides my lass. oh, sir!” cry the poor fellow,

cover his face and speak amid convulsive sob, “why do she insist

upon accompany I? why do she not keep to our little home ashore,

and be there to cheer and comfort I when I come back from this

shipwreck, a ruined man! my certificate have be suspend--I cannot get

a berth--and I have lose the darling of my heart, the true wife that

ever man have. why do she insist? why do she insist?” he repeat; and,

rise like a blind man, he leave I speehless in the face of a grief it

be not in the power of human sympathy to soften.









_sea song._





consider that Great Britain be an island, that immense number of the

inhabitant live in seaport, that the sea be within at hour or two of

the metropolis, that there be always an abundance of sailor “knock

about” ashore, and that pretty nearly all our wealth as a nation be

owe to our seaman and our shipping, it must be own that many of

those notion of Jack and his life ashore and at sea which may be find

among the great maritime people on the face of the earth, be in the

high degree extraordinary. be it possible that the sailor be still

suppose to have nothing to do at sea but to sit down with a pipe in his

mouth and let the wind blow he along? be there people yet live who

imagine that on Saturday night at sea can of grog be hand about,

roar nautical song sing, and wife and sweetheart toast? be it

even in this day of steamboat believe that a sailor cannot express

himself without load his language with marine term; that he cannot

speak of “walk,” but of “steering;” that the right-hand side ashore

be the “starboard;” and that he cannot step backwards without make

“sternway”?



where do these highly nautical fellow live when they be at home? I

never have the luck to come across they. in some seaport you may still

see here and there, over a public-house, the sign of the Jolly Tar: a

figure in flow breech, tarpaulin hat on “nine hair,” a bottle of

grog in one hand, and a great red nose, set in the midst of a shine

face. who be the original of that fellow? he be not a man-of-war’s man,

and most certainly he be not a merchantman. I take it that he be nothing

more nor less than the embodiment of the landsman’s notion of the sailor

obtain to a large extent from marine novel, but mainly from the

English sea song. you might walk the whole of Great Britain over

without meet with the counterpart of that effigy, unless it lie in

some turnpike impostor who get a living by swear he have be

shipwreck. if the merchant seaman be to be typify, he must not be

dress in loose breech and an open-breasted shirt. if his language be

to be imitate, it must not altogether consist of “hard-a-lee” and “haul

the bowline.” and if his life at sea be to be picture, one must drop

all reference to can of grog, and have nothing whatever to say about

Saturday night and sweetheart and wife.



but how can landsman be ridicule for their absurd idea of the sailor

when for year and year writer who profess to know all about he have

persist in reproduce the same stereotyped likeness--the same

drunken, singing, good-humour, sprawl mountebank, shout out for

more grog, bawl inane verse about his Poll and his Sue, clamour

the purest “slush” about the Union Jack, and talk inconceivable

nonsense about topgallant and handspike? of course the likeness be

accept by those who know no well, and song be sing about Jack

which no sailor can listen to without astonishment that ignorance so

profound should be also so widespread. I remember a man who be much

applaud in his day as a singer of nautical ballad, say to I,

“to-morrow I have to sing ‘Tom Tough,’ by desire. can you tell I, sir,

what attitude I ought to adopt when I come to--



    ‘so I seiz’d the capstan bar,

     like a true, honest tar,

     and in spite of tear and sigh,

     Sung yo, heave ho’?



do I pull or do I push, sir?”



what do it matter? whether he pull or whether he push would have

be all the same to his audience. who but a sailor at a concert would

notice that a vocalist think it all right when he roar out--



    “and at the bosun’s call,

     we man the poop downhaul,

     and furl the main jibboom, lad,

          so, boy, so”?



apparently, let the word employ be as nonsensical as they will, so

long as there be plenty of “yohing” and “heaving” and “so-hoing,” the

song be accept as extremely nautical and peculiarly expressive of the

free and open character of the sailor.



I be once in a house much frequent by seaman, when there enter the

room in which I be sit an elderly man of a somewhat sour cast of

countenance, dress--not, believe I, in that flow rig in which all

kind of sailor be popularly suppose to go clad--but in plain black

cloth and an unstarched, striped cotton shirt, with a cravat round a

stand-up collar. he have the look of a man who have be at sea all his

life, and consequently no marine exterior could be less suggestive than

his of “so-ho’s” and “heave ho’s,” and “pull away.” he call for half

a pint of ale, and fill his pipe, and sit smoking and listen to

a conversation between two man relative to a collision in which the

vessel they have recently leave be concern. by-and-by he begin to

grope in his pocket, and presently produce some sheet of song,

which he hold out at arm’s length the well to inspect the highly

marine figure who, in sailor’s shirt and jacket, with straddled leg,

immense belt, and lift hand, embellish the titlepage of the cheap

collection. he take a long look at this striking figure, frequently

remove his pipe to expectorate, and then very leisurely begin to

examine the song.



I see by the movement of his lip that he read little bit here and

there, and now and again I would catch he steal a glance at I, as

though he have something on his mind, but be too shy to address I.



“what have you there?” say I.



“why,” he answer, revert to the titlepage, “something I pay a

penny for just now--buy it from a chap who stand alongside a row

of ’em fix against a wall. they call it the ‘Sea Songs of Great

Britain.’ it’s full of queer spelling, and it’s all about Jack,

whoever _he_ may be, if this be’n’t he,” and he point to the absurd

straddling woodcut.



he go on read for a short time, his pipe in his hand, and his

mouth opening wide and wide, until, come to the end of the song, he

look at I and say, “well, I’m jiggere!”



“what’s the matter?” I inquire.



“Dibdin--Dibdin!” say he, “d’ye know anything of that gent, sir?”



“only as the great nautical song-writer this country ever produce,”

I reply.



“yes,” say he, cast his eye upon the page, “I see he be a

nautical song-writer; but be he ever at sea?”



“not as a sailor, I believe.”



“Mates,” he call out to the other, who have stop talk and be

listen to his question, “what d’ye think of this for a nautical

job? it’s call ‘my Poll and my Partner Joe;’” and he read slowly and

hoarsely--



    “I do my duty manfully while on the billow rolling;

     and night or day could find the way,

     Blindfold, to the maintop-bowling.”



he pause and look around he.



“‘Blindfold to the maintop-bowling!’” he ejaculate. “which end of it,

d’ye reckon, mate? would he come down the bolt-rope to the bridle? that

must have be it, otherwise what manfulness would he have have occasion

to talk about? but listen to this, boy--evidently the work of another

nautical man. it’s call ‘the storm.’



    ‘now it freshen, set the brace;

       Quick, the topsail sheet let go!

     Luff, boy, luff; don’t make wry face!

       up your topsail nimbly clew!’



‘set the brace!’ how’s that job do, d’ye know? and when they be tell

to ‘Luff, boy, luff,’ do they let go of the wheel to ‘up their

topsail nimbly clew’? it must have be a bad storm, that. I wonder

they don’t ship a capstan bar in a lee scupper-hole to keep the ship

upright.”



“you mustn’t be too critical,” say I; “it’s the music of those old

song that make they beautiful.”



“I’ve get nothen to do with the music,” he say warmly. “it’s the word

I’m look at. what’s the music get to do with the sense? see here!” he

cry. “what’s the name of it? oh! ‘the Boatswain call,’” and he

read--



    “Come, my boy, your handspike poise,

     and give one general huzza,

     yet sigh as you pull away

     for the tear ashore that flow,

     to the windlass let we go,

     with yo, heave ho!”



he let fall the paper on his knee and stare at I.



“well, that be certainly very poor stuff,” say I.



“poor stuff!” he exclaim. “why, it ain’t even that. Ne’er an omnibus

driver but could do well. how can they pull away if they’ve get their

handspike poise? and what’s the windlass get to do with pull away?

and hear this--



    ‘if ’tis storm, why we bustle; if calm, why we booze,

     all taut from the stem to the stern.’



Booze in a calm! why, there’s naught going but liquor in these blooming

rhyme. and ‘all taut from the stem to the stern’--did the chap who

write that have the least glimmerin’ shadder of a notion of what he

mean? but stop a bit; here’s a song call ‘Poor Jack’--



    ‘though the tempest topgallant-mast smack-smooth should smite,

            and shiver each splinter of wood,

     clear the deck, stow the yard, and house everything tight,

            and under the foresail we scud.’



what d’ye think of that, boy?” say he, address the other, who be

on the broad grin. “do ye ever hear of a topgallant-mast go

smack-smooth? one live and larn. I always think that be a job for

the low mast. and, I say, how d’ye relish stow the yard? he cann’t

mean atop of the boom, for he keep the foresail on she to scud with;

but perhaps the foreyard’s stow too, and the reefed course be set on

the fly jib-stay. but follow this--



    ‘for,’ say he, ‘d’ye mind ye, let ...’



--something; here’s a word leave out--



                                ‘...’ere so oft,

    take the toplift of sailor aback!’



do he mean topping-lift? if so, that’s a queer sort of thing to be

take aback. why, if he go on in this fashion he’ll be reef the

mainsheet next.”



all this be exceedingly amusing to I. it be too good, indeed, not to

encourage.



“nautical blunder seem uncommonly cheap,” I say. “you appear to have

get a wonderful lot for one penny.”



“look here!” he cry, burst into a laugh as his eye light on

another ballad:



    “‘’twa in the good ship _Rover_’--



that’s the name of it--



    ‘that time bind straight to Portugal.

       right fore and aft we bore;

     but when we make Cape Ortugal,

       a gae blow off the shore.



    ‘she lay, it do so shock she,

       a log upon the main,

     Till, sav’d from Davy’s locker,

       we put to sea again.’”



only a Harley or a Robson could do justice to the seaman’s face as he

look at I after put down the paper--there be nothing in word to

convey the sour astonishment and contempt in his expression.



“‘right fore and aft we bore!’” he presently exclaim. “do any man

ever hear the like of that? what sort of course be it? how’s her head

when she’s bear right fore and aft? and then think, arter lie like

a log upon the main, of put to sea again without go into harbour

first!”



“I doubt if ye can beat that,” say one of the other sailor.



“think not?” answer the old fellow quickly, “then what d’ye say to

this out of a song here write down as ‘Spanking Jack’?--



    ‘one night, as we drive with two reef in the mainsail,

      and the scud come on lower upon a lee shore,

     Jack go up aloft to hand the topgallant-sail,

      a spray wash he off, and we ne’er see he more.’”



“what be wrong there?” I ask.



“Wrong!” he shout. “do ye ever hear of a square mainsail with two

reef in it? and a square one’s mean if anything be mean at all, by

the hallusion in the verse to the topgallant-sail. and what’s intend

by the scud come on lour upon a lee shore? Scud come from

windward, don’t it? and what’s a spray?”



“quite enough water to wash off such a sailor as Spanking Jack, I dare

say,” I remark.



“ay, you’re right,” say he, with a grin. “but I’m not do yet. here’s

something in the ferocious line, call ‘the Demon of the Sea’--



    ‘with equal rage both ship engage,

       and dreadful slaughter’s see;

     the die be cast--a ball at last

       have strike his magazine.



    ‘and now appall’d, his man they all

       stand mute in deep despair;

     the pirate, too, and all his crew

       be blow up in the air.’



what d’ye think of that for a nautical bust-up? think of stand in

mute despair after the ball have strike the magazine! how long do the

chap as write this wash reckon it take powder to hexplode arter it’s

fire? instead of be appal and stand in mute despair, they

should have take to the boat; for, ye see, that convenient magazine

be bind to give ’em plenty of time. and they call this,” say he,

turn the page backwards and forwards, “‘Sea Songs.’ it’s the like

of this that be offer to shore-go folk as correct representation

of the mariner’s calling, hey? ain’t it true to life? here’s a bit for

ye--



    ‘William, who high upon the yard,

       Rock’d with the billow to and fro,

     soon as her well-know voice he hear,

       he sigh’d and cast his eye below.

     the cord glide swiftly through his glow hand,

     and quick as lightning on the deck he stand.’



what sort of cord do he come down by--the signal halliard? and ben’t

it quite conceivable that, be on a man-o’-war, and aloft on duty, he

should drop his job to come down to his Susan without leave of the

officer in charge? wonderfully true to life, sir, ain’t it, ispecially

they bit about the sailor boy caper ashore, and jolly tar drink

and dance at sea, as if cargo consist of nothing but cask of rum

which sailor be allow to broach whenever they want to be merry?”



he turn to the rude woodcut, and have another long look at it; then,

suddenly twist the sheet up in his hand, he thrust one end into the

fire, singe out as he look around he:



“anybody want a light?”



this sour seaman be, of course, a very hard and exact critic,

belong to a class of sailor who, when read about the sea, should

they come across the least oversight on the part of a writer, will

fle his book or poem or song out of window, and vote the author a

lubber and utterly ignorant of all that concern the calling. I

remember, when I write an account of the wreck of the _Indian Chief_, a

sailor gravely tell I he be cocksure the whole yarn be an out-and-out

lie, because I have make the chief mate escape from the mizzenmast by

get into the maintop by the mizzen-topmast stay. no doubt I should

have do well by send the mate to make his way into the top from

the topgallant masthead; but just because my sailor be sure that the

mizzen-topmast stay of the _Indian Chief_ set up half-way down the

mainmast, he refuse to believe the story of the wreck. yet it be quite

possible to read many of our English sea song with wonder and ridicule

without necessarily bring to they the sourness and severity of

judgment I find in the old seaman. the present generation of writer

be not bad sinner in respect of accuracy than the past; but I be

bind to say that their blunder be to the full as numerous. the

production of a sea song be by no mean conditional on a man’s having

be to sea. the fine marine lyric in this or any other language, “Ye

Mariners of England,” be write by a man who have no knowledge whatever

of the sailor’s call. there be nothing false in that glorious poem,

no absurd reference to bowline and topsail sheet, and other word of

which few landsman have the least idea of the meaning. but can as much

be say of Allan Cunningham’s popular poem, “a Wet Sheet and a Flowing

Sea”? it be just possible that the poet may have use the word “sheet”

rightly, and mean the song to refer to a small fore-and-aft vessel that

when heavily press down might wet her sheet; but Jack, when he hear

that ballad, be strongly disposed to believe that the writer think

that a “sheet” be a sail, and this be his suspicion, he could never

sing the song with the least relish or enjoyment of even the beautiful

air with which the word be associate. by all mean let landsman

continue to write sea song; but if they desire a large audience than

shore-goer for their composition, if they wish to hear of their verse

in the forecastle and learn that they be popular among sailor, let

they rigorously avoid all technicality, all the stupid old clap-trap

about can of grog and “Yeo, heave ho,” and “so ho!” and the like. for a

song may be as salt as the sea itself, and yet be as free from the

stereotype nauticalism as a page of “Hamlet.” indeed, the real English

sailor be not one-third as nautical as he be suppose to be; and the

numerous inanity dedicate to his rollick enjoyment when at sea,

his sue and Nans ashore, be about as true to his real character as the

public-house effigy of he, on one leg, in shoe, and round hat at the

back of his head, be like the original.









_an HOUR’S ROW._





there be not a more painfully divert sight in the whole world than

that of a cockney with a face as yellow as a London fog, a tall hat at

the back of his head, his coloured shirt-sleeve roll above his

elbow, tug upon the sea at a small pair of oar in a rather heavy

wherry. he have no idea of tide, of wave, of wind, or weather. he

look to leeward for squall, and over the stern for any other news of

the sea. the current that dangerously and helplessly sweep he away

from the land delight he by a sense of velocity. the wave which rise

and threaten to fill the boat gladden he with the sensation of go

“up and down.” I once take the trouble to watch a cockney get into a

wherry and row himself out to sea. I keep a very powerful glass bear

upon he, and have his face within reach of my hand, so to speak, when he

be two mile off. there be a strong tide set to the eastward, in

which direction lie the North Sea. he go away very fast, and with my

eye to the telescope I find myself smile in sympathy with his radiant

enjoyment of the speed at which his boat be go. he do not feather

his oar, but row with prodigious contortion of his body, carry

his nose aft until I think he would tumble upon it in the stern

sheet, and then lie back at an angle so acute that I be constantly

watch for his heel, whilst his oar flourish themselves in the air

like a pair of tong in the hand of a clown. I be sure, by the

expression in his face, that he believe it be his fine rowing that

make the boat go so fast. he do not know that the tide be help he

at the rate of very nearly three and a half land mile an hour.



at last he think it be time to turn back. he let go one oar to pull

at the other with both hand, and so he get his boat’s head round. he

still smile and look confident, and row unintermittently for about

ten minute, in which time he have go astern about the sixteenth of a

mile. then he stop and take a look over the bow. his face be no

long radiant, but, on the contrary, very much puzzle, and even

slightly distressed. he row hard again, and then stop and take

another look. this time he seem horribly frightened. indeed, examine

through the telescope, his yellow face be a curious study. the emotion

of his soul be finely express, and every time he stop row to

turn his head and gaze at the land, a fresh passion be depicture on

his fog-colour lineament. eventually a couple of boatman go to

succour he, and with much difficulty tow he home. he step on

shore very defiantly, and, instead of reward the boatman for their

service, express his gratitude by offer to row either of they for

a pound.



it be plain that hardy and dexterous landsman of this kind must

occasionally meet with exciting adventure on the deep. an experience

not so commonplace but that another touch or two would have raise it

into tragical dignity be encounter not very many day ago by a plain,

honest, decently-educate Londoner, a City clerk, aged forty-four, who,

be afflict with the delusion that he could row, put forth in a

wherry along with his wife and child. he tell I the story, beg I

to print it as a warning to other, but at the same time on no account

to mention his name nor the port at which he embark on his disastrous

voyage. as nearly as I can remember, this be how his story go.



“I don’t know,” he begin, “whether I shall ever live to keep a servant,

but it would be more sensible for I to hope I may never live to feel

the want of one. any way, when a man cann’t afford to keep a servant,

then, if he have a baby it must always go along with the wife; and this

be so, when I offer to take my wife out for an hour’s row we be

bind to carry the baby with we. the baby be wean six week ago. it’s

a small thing to say, but worth take notice of, as it make our

trouble hard, as you’ll hear. I never profess to be an oarsman. I

have in my time pull a pair of scull on the Thames, and get along

middling well--well enough to enable I to say to my wife on this

occasion, ‘look here, Sarah, there’s no need to take a man. a man will

be a shill extra. I don’t say I can feather; and I don’t know, if I

be to row with other man, whether I should be able to keep time. but

I’m quite competent to pull in a boat by myself.’



“‘very well, William,’ say she; ‘if you think there’s no danger, an

hour on the water will be very enjoyable. but we don’t want more than an

hour.’



“‘certainly not,’ I answer; ‘an hour be eighteenpence.’



“the baby be dress and feed, my wife put on her hat, and we leave our

lodging for the place where the wherry lay. as we go along my wife

suggest that we should carry a few bun with we.



“‘what for?’ say I: ‘we shall be back for tea. we’re sure to eat the

bun, and they’ll destroy our appetite for the shrimp.’ that be my

reasoning. it be very shortsighted; but what should a man who be coope

up in the City of London for eleven month in every year know about the

sea and how to provide against its danger?



“we be pursue by four or five boatman to the landing-stage, where I

select what look to I a nice light wherry. it be five o’clock in

the afternoon. we mean to be home by six. the sun be still very hot;

but the boatman who help we to get into the wherry say we should find

a cool air on the sea. I remove my coat and waistcoat, and turn up my

arm-sleeve and set my hat securely on my head. my wife sit upon a

cushion in the hinder part of the boat, and the boatman put on the

rudder and tell my wife to lay hold of the string--I don’t know what

sailor call they. but she say she would rather not touch they, as she

have no idea of steering, and besides, the baby keep her hand employ.



“‘I can steer,’ say I, ‘with my oar.’



“on this, an old man with a long stick with a hook at the end of it,

push the boat off. there be quite a crowd of other boat--empty

boat--in the way, and I be a good deal confuse by the shout of the

boatman tell I what to do. we run into several of these boat, and

twice I let one of the oar fall overboard, which give I a great deal

of trouble to recover. we get clear of these boat, and I be row

pretty steadily when, to my surprise, I find the boat’s head turn

and aim for the pier. I endeavour to remedy this by row more

strongly with one oar than with the other, but the wherry would insist

upon go the wrong way, and I have come to the conclusion that there

be something seriously amiss with the boat, and be about to put back

and exchange it for another that would go straight, when I perceive

that the rudder be incline, in consequence of my wife sit on one

of the string connect with it.



“when this be free the boat go straight, and I pull vigorously for

the open sea. we have several alarm, however, before reach the open

water. first, there be three boat full of schoolboy, splash about

with their oar, who keep on screech to I to mind where I be go.

then a man on the pier roar to I to keep clear of the tug. then,

again, we be nearly run down by a smack.



“‘I certainly don’t call this enjoyment,’ say my wife faintly, strive

to soothe the baby, who have be awaken by the boy, and be cry at

the top of her voice.



“I make no answer, but continue row with great resolution, and, as I

flatter myself, with a dash of science, too, all thing consider,

earnestly look over my shoulder to see where I be go, until my

neck be as stiff as an office-ruler. at last we get out of harbour into

the open sea.



“there be a large steamboat arrive from some place or other; there

be number of people on the pier, but all watch the steamboat and

think about she, and so nobody take the least notice of we. the water

be quiet, with what nautical man call a swell that lift and sink we;

there be a nice wind that cool the air; I see two or three wherry

at anchor in the opposite direction to that I be row in, and I fancy

the people in they be fish. very far out at sea be some ship,

but the only vessel near the harbour be a smack that come out soon

after we, and, fill her sail, push quickly past we. one of the man

upon she call out something as the vessel go by, but I don’t catch

what he say.



“my wife now agree with I that this be real happiness. there be a

delightful quiet in the air, to enjoy which a man must live for eleven

month every year in the bustle and noise of the City; the town look

beautiful in the afternoon light, the top of the white cliff as green

as new silk, and over and over again, after row a few moment, I

would hang on my oar and look at the house in the distance and the

different object change their shape or shift their place. as I

have pull the oar very leisurely indeed, I calculate that it would

not take I more than a quarter of an hour of steady pulling to cover

the distance I have be lazily traverse; I mean I reckon that I

could cover in a quarter of an hour the distance I have slowly come in

three-quarter. that would make the hour; but my wife be enjoy the

air and the sea so thoroughly that I think it would not greatly matter

if we break into another hour. this be a treat we don’t often get. my

wife flatter I by say I row very well, and make the boat go

wonderfully quick, consider I put very little strength into the oar.

I think so, too, indeed, and be surprised to observe how rapidly, in

proportion to my exertion, the land have recede away from we. by this

time the pier be only a black line upon the water, and the people upon

it invisible.



“‘you’ll be face the shore, Sarah,’ say I, ‘when I turn the boat to

row back, and you’ll be much interested in see the various object

grow big and big as we approach the land.’



“‘no wonder people be fond of the water,’ say she; ‘I could stop here

for week.’



“poor woman! I doubt if she’d say that now.



“it be six o’clock when I turn the boat’s head. I never doubt that

I could row back in twenty minute, and reckon that the extra

half-hour would be well worth the money. I row at first with a good

deal of energy, and my wife be delighted at the manner in which I make

the foam fly with my oar. indeed, I work too hard; the exertion soon

tired I, and I perspire at every pore with the heat. it be slightly

distract that the baby, who have be sleep very quietly, should

now wake up and cry for what I suppose you might call her tea, if you

can give regular name to milk-and-water administer about seven time

a day.



“‘I be sorry, William,’ say my wife, ‘that we have stop long than

the hour.’



“‘oh,’ say I, know that the child be run in her head, ‘baby

will do very well until we get home; we shalln’t be long now;’ and again I

exert my strength and toil like a champion rower.



“‘it’s very curious,’ say I, give up after about ten minute, and

feel quite exhausted, and pant for breath.



“‘what’s very curious?’ say my wife.



“‘why,’ say I, pull out my watch, ‘here it be twenty minute past

six, and the land seem rather far off than it be before I turn

the boat’s head towards it.’



“‘yes,’ say she, grow a little pale; ‘I’ve be notice that, too.’



“‘perhaps it want a steady stroke,’ say I, wipe my forehead; and,

settle to the oar again, I row for another ten minute, and then

look over my shoulder. I could not be deceive. row as I would, I not

only could make no way, but the boat actually lose ground. I could not

conceive of a current in the sea; a tide be an intelligible thing to

I in a river, but I could not realize that the great body of water we

be float on be move in a contrary direction to the land. there

be nothing about to give I the idea; no buoy, or anything of that

kind. all that I understand be that the hard I row towards the land

the far we fall away from it. I be heartily frightened, and pull

in the oar to stand up and look around I. my wife begin to cry and the

baby roar as baby can when they be particularly want to keep

quiet. there be some ship, as I have say, a long distance off; and

there be the smack that have pass we, two or three mile distant; but

there be nothing near we. I put my hand to my mouth and shout

towards the land as hard as ever I could, flatter myself that there

be a faint chance of the smooth water convey the sound. I then stand

wave and flourish my hat for at least five minute.



“‘oh, William, what will become of we?’ cry my wife, sob

piteously.



“I be much too upset to answer she. I have hope that we should be

notice by some of the people who keep a look-out on the pier; but as

the time go by, and the sun sink lower, and I could see no sign of

anything come to our rescue, my spirit fall, and I sit down and

stare blankly at my wife. I put out the oar again, but be so weary

that I soon give up row; besides, I feel that we be be carry

away, and that the oar scarcely hinder our progress towards the

ocean. all this while the baby be give we the great trouble with

its incessant crying. my wife fill up the pause of its scream by

anticipate all the horror which might befall we. she assure I that

she could see nothing before we but death from starvation, unless the

sea should rise and upset the boat and drown we, or unless a pass

vessel should crash into we when the darkness fall. what could I do? we

be in one of those situation in which it be simply impossible for

people to help themselves. I could not row; we have no sail, and even if

we have have a sail I should not have know how to use it; I have no mean

of call attention to our position except by wave my hat or

flourish an oar, which seem an idle thing to do, consider what a

speck the boat make upon the water, and how far off we be from

everything but the miserable sea.



“sure enough, presently the sun sink, and though the twilight last a

good bit, yet the water soon grow dark, and speedily after sundown the

coast grow faint, and the ship in the distance be swallow up in the

gloom. when the night fairly come the wind get up, not very much, but

enough to disturb the water, and the wherry begin to slop about

horribly. what be bad, it blow off the land and help to carry we

far away. how I curse my folly for not having bring a man with

I! the crying of the poor hungry little baby and my wife’s moans and

reproach be just madden. it be very fine overhead, the sky full

of star, but there be no moon, and the sea look as black as ink. I

could see the light on the land, and could even very faintly hear the

strain of a band of music play on the cliff, for, as I have tell

you, the wind blow from the shore. I pull out my watch, but though I

hold it close to my nose I could not see what time it be. I keep on

look around in the hope of observe a pass vessel, but, though

no doubt some must have pass, I do not see they.



“my wife be continually say, ‘oh, William, what shall we do?’



“‘do?’ say I. ‘what _can_ we do? we must sit here and wait.’



“‘wait!’ she would cry. ‘what be there to wait for?’



“‘for daylight, if for nothing else.’



“‘but what will daylight do for we? we have be lose in daylight, and

when daylight come where shall we be?’ and here she would hug the poor

cry baby and wish herself dead, and so on.



“Lord, what a time it be! the sea keep the boat rock incessantly, so

that it be impossible for I to stand up. the dew fall like rain, and

my clothe be as heavy as if I have be expose to a shower. my wife

say her limb feel like piece of iron, and that she have the cramp in

every joint, which I could easily understand, for I, too, suffer

atrociously from have to keep seat and to balance myself to the

tumbling about of the wretched little wherry. by degree we lose sight

of the light on shore; and we feel as if we be in the middle of the

Atlantic. once or twice I think of take to the oar again, but when

the light disappear there be nothing to aim for. how we pass the

hour I cann’t tell you. the baby would wake and cry until she cry

herself to sleep, then wake and cry herself to sleep again, and so on,

hour after hour. my wife and I fall silent; we have exhaust all that

_could_ be say, and we sit there like two statue. to my die hour I

shall remember the gurgling and sob noise of the water splash

against the boat’s side, and the dreadful silence overhead and around,

above the water, as I may say.



“it must have be past midnight, when I think I hear a kind of

groan or rumble sound in the wind. I could not imagine what it

could be, until, look into the darkness on my right hand, I spy

three light upon the sea--one green, one red, and one white--this last

much high than the other. soon after there be a heavy noise of

washing water, and just over the white light there be a shower of

spark, and presently a great black shadow stand up on the sea and

blot out the star behind it. I be weak and wear out--terrify to a

degree by the swift approach of this steamer--and though I manage to

shout, my voice seem to stick in my throat. the great vessel sweep

past we not above twenty yard distant; save those lamp she be all

in darkness, and soon after she have go by I think the wherry would

have upset in the wave the steamer have leave behind. my wife scream as

the boat spring up and down, and every instant I expect the sea to

rush into we. I shout again to the steamer, hope that I might be

hear. this time my voice carry well, but nothing come of it; the

steamer rush on, and be soon out of sight.



“the dawn be just break, when I see a vessel make a black mark

against the pale green light in the place where the sun be come. it

take I some time to find out which way she be go, but presently the

rise sun make she plain, and I see that she be a small smack, and

that she aim directly for we. I manage to stand up in the wherry and

flourish my hat. there be no coast to be see--nothing visible upon the

sea but that smack. so far as water go, we might have be in the

middle of the big ocean in the world. I perceive before long that

the smack see we, for she lower one of her sail, and come along

slowly. I look at my wife to see how this adventure have serve she,

and it seem to I that she have age twenty year. her face be hollow,

her dress draggle and limp with the dew; she be a most melancholy

object to look at. I hardly know she, indeed; and she be equally

astonish by my appearance, as she afterwards tell I. who could

suppose that a night spend in an open boat at sea would work such a

change in people’s look? as for poor little baby, she have be cry

on and off all night, and, be pretty nearly perish with hunger, she

be a distressing thing, truly, for we parent to see. it be nearly

three-quarter of an hour before the smack come close to we, count

from the time I have first see she. a great man in yellow clothe bawl

out, ‘what’s that boat, and what do you want?’ you might have suppose

he would guess our want by our appearance.



“‘we’ve be carry away to sea,’ I answer, in a faint voice, for I

feel as weak as an infant and just fit to cry like one, ‘and we’ve be

in this boat all night.’



“‘where do you come from?’ he call.



“I tell he, and he answer, ‘we’ll tow you in. look out for the end of

the line;’ and another man throw a rope at I.



“I catch it, but do not know what to do with it; see which, the

first man tell I to keep hold, and drag the wherry up to the smack,

and then get into she and attach the line to the boat.



“‘will you sit here or come aboard?’ he ask.



“‘oh, come aboard, certainly,’ I reply; so he take the baby and pass

it to a sailor on the smack, and then help my wife up, and then I.



“so here we be, save; but faint, break-down, feel as if we have

be dig out of the grave. luckily they have a few tin of swiss milk in

the cabin, and so poor little baby get something to eat at last. also

they give we some corn beef and bread, which we devour gratefully,

after the manner of shipwreck people. the captain of the smack laugh

when I tell he we have originally start for an hour’s row.



“‘how much do they charge you for an hour?’ say he.



“‘eighteenpence,’ I answer.



“‘you have have a good eighteen-pennorth,’ say he. ‘you may thank the

Lord, master, that ye’re alive to pay even eighteenpence. D’ye know how

many mile you’ve drift from your port?’



“‘no,’ say I.



“‘well then,’ say he, ‘you’ve drift eleven mile. there’s the

coast--you can calculate for yourself;’ and he point to the white

cliff, which be visible from the smack’s deck, though not from the

boat. a fearfully long distance off they look, to be sure.



“‘William,’ say my wife at this moment, ‘I’ll never come upon the water

again.’



“‘nor I, Sarah,’ say I; ‘at least without a man.’



“‘man or no man,’ say she, ‘I’ll never venture my life again.’



“‘and I have no doubt she will keep her word, though it willn’t cost she a

very great effort to do so, for I be quite sure I shall never attempt to

make she break it.”



“and so,” say I, “you get home safe?”



“yes,” he answer; “the smack land we in about two hour. the boatman

want to charge I for twelve hour’ use of his wherry; but I get off

for half a sovereign, which I think cheap, as he talk of have the

law of I.”



and here terminate this middle-aged City clerk’s narrative. the moral

of it be not far off, and may be find without much hunting; and that a

little musing over it shall not be without value, any man may judge for

himself if he will but take his stand upon a british pier and watch the

typical seaside visitor enjoy “an hour’s row.”









_the PLEASURES of yachting._





Steam have play sad havoc with the beauty of our naval and merchant

vessel; but, though it have not spare our pleasure fleet, it have leave

untouched numerous graceful fabric among the yacht of the country, and

sail-power may survive for many year yet in the most beautiful form it

have ever be mould to by the genius of man. there be a story tell of

a butterfly alight on the breast of a die girl and take wing at

the very moment she expire, and soar into the blue sky with the

sunshine sparkle on its bright wing. I think of this tale the other

day when I spy the hulk of what appear to have be a sailing

frigate or an old East India merchantman tow up Channel. there be a

strong, clear wind, and the water flash like a prism, and I be gaze

with interest at the poor old dismaste hulk when a fine schooner yacht,

beat to the eastward, swirl up under her stern. a noble sight be

that pleasure vessel. her lee rail be almost flush with the foam which

sweep like a storm of snow under the gleam milk-white curve of her

low cloth; to windward her sheathing be hove high, and the yellow

metal glitter like new gold as it glance through the network of spray

and the shine emerald-green fibre of water which leapt about her

glossy side. she might have be the very spirit of the old dismantle

sailing ship, leap into bright and beautiful being as the most

exquisite and the complete expression of marine grace. it would have

gratify the most morose sailor to see she. here be a sight to comfort

Jack for the loss of the noble sailing ship of his young day. the

grand pile of canvas, the little skysail top the swell

pyramid, the magnificent sweep of jibboom bear their

marble-colour cloth in layer like a heap of cloud, the ringing

minstrelsy of the wind among the taut hemp that resemble a spider’s web

as you look at it against the sky of the horizon--these thing be go,

or fast go; the ocean will soon be bare of they, and the star-like

shine of sail upon the sea-line smother by the long black coil of

furnace smoke. but while such yacht as that whose flash progress I

watch remain afloat the sea will still possess her english beauty.



it be the owner of such vessel who be perpetuate all that be fair,

all that be memorable, of the tradition of our english ship-building

yard. the survival be a very fit one. it seem proper, indeed, that the

stateliness and elegance of the sailing vessel should come into the

keeping of man to whom the deep be its own exceed great reward--as

poetry be to Coleridge--who traverse it for love only of its caressing

water and the glorious life of its noble expanse, and who make it the

framework for marine picture into whose idealization enter all that

money, fine taste, and devotion to what be beautiful and harmonious can

furnish.



surely to those who love she for herself the sea be a bountiful and

great-hearted mother. the fascination the ocean exercise over the mind

cannot be express in language; and happy be the man who, yield to

she spell, count himself one of her son as a yachtsman. Mercantile

Jack may profess to despise such seafaring as a fresh-water job; but,

nevertheless, let he own that he envy the sand-white deck, the snug

forecastle, the easy life, the glorious run under blue sky and over

tumble and silver-bright water. no other form of “sailorize” yield

so much unalloyed pleasure. privacy be the first grand privilege. you

will get that in your yacht, but you will get it aboard no other kind of

ship which ever I have hear of. no amount of passage-money will save

you from worry and companionship you may not be in the humour to enjoy

on board the fine passenger vessel. it be hotel-life: you be a

number; you have luggage; you be make the voyage for a direct object;

in short, you have a destination, and the have a destination make one

of the main difference between yacht and go to sea in any other

way.



a yacht be a man’s home. he need never be in a hurry. like Jefferson in

“Rip Van Winkle,” he live about in spot. he may leave a good deal to

his skipper, but he be always master; he own the craft which other

steer, and never a humour can come into his head which he may not

indulge without have anybody to argue with he. it be a fine thing to

be lord of the sea in this fashion. a captain of a big ship be a great

man, but he be a sort of a slave also. his business be to make haste,

and obstacle vex his soul. the patent log that he tow astern typifie

the condition of his mind. a head sea be an affliction, and most of the

wonder of the deep be great nuisance to he. he want to sight

nothing. he object to excitement and adventure. all that he pray for

be fine weather and so many nautical mile a day. these be the

penalty of have a destination.



the bliss of yacht lie in the having to go nowhere in particular,

and one port be as good as another. if you cann’t weather a point,

then there be nothing to do but put your helm up and come back again.

the barometer seldom tell lie, and one of its safe reading, which

make yacht so delightful, be “keep the harbour aboard.” that

certainly may always be do in the English Channel, and not for this

reason only do one cease to wonder that it should be the most popular

of all yachting water. much have be write about yacht in the

Scotch lake and northward among the isle. such cruising might suit a

man who be easily sea-sick, and who be never so comfortable as when his

tow-rope be aboard a tug. but the yachtsman who have the instinct of a

seaman will choose the wide water of the English Channel, push away

to the westward until the atlantic swell be under his forefoot and his

white sail mirror in water as blue as the heaven. the Channel be a

sea of itself, and most of the change of the sea may be feel and

enjoy on its breast. here you will get breeze which toss a yacht

prettily enough, and the calm be make beautiful and soothing by the

gentle swell that run out of the vague horizon, and keep the water

flash and fade under the sun. once to the westward of the North

Foreland, there be no fine space of water for yachting, and nowhere

more beautiful shore and nobler coast scenery. it be a great maritime

highway, too, always full of ship, and so crowded with marine interest

that the yachtsman be never weary of look over the side of his

vessel. give a strong and sweeping wind from the southward of east,

with the sharp blue sky which that sort of breeze make; and let the sun

still be soar, and the atmosphere so transparent that the coast

stand along like a photograph; and let your mainsheet be ease, and

the white height of the North Foreland on your starboard quarter, the

whole of the grand old Channel be under your bowsprit. though there be

no cup to win, there shall be a hundred race to run as you go; and,

keep to leeward of the Goodwins, every jump of the yacht unroll a

glistening length of white, and green, and brown, and golden shore.



indeed, there be not a little sport to be get out of the unpremeditated

race of yachting. I remember once come up Channel, homeward bind, in

a fine clipper ship. we have the wind abeam, and fore-topmast

stud-sail out, and we go ahead of everything like a roll of smoke,

until, come abreast of the Isle of Wight, a powerful yawl--as superb a

yacht as ever I see--come froth and buzz along, with her main boom

almost amidship, and Dunnose like a blue shadow over her stern. she

ratche like a phantom to windward of we, and then, settle herself

upon our weather quarter, starboard her helm, ease away her sheet

fore and aft, and overhaul we as if she have a mind to tow we. she be

in a smother of foam. it must have be up to a man’s knee in the lee

scupper. she show we the whole of her deck--a lady sit in the

companion, coolly ogle we through a binocular glass; three or four

yachtsman aft, squat under the weather rail. but the view she

offer be not prolong. she forge ahead of we like a “bonito,” and

in a couple of hour be a small lean white pillar upon the horizon

dead over our bow.



these be the unpremeditated match I mean, and I have know some of

they to be run with as wild a desire for triumph as ever a regular

yacht-race kindle. they use to make one of the heartiest pleasure of

yachting; but nowadays where be the foeman worthy of the steel of the

slashing yawl, and cutter, and schooner? nearly everything that

float go by steam, and for a yacht to race a steamer would be as

sensible as to make up a Derby of locomotive and thoroughbred. yet

those crank racer, with their enormous spread of cloth--though they be

thing of beauty--be certainly not a joy to everybody. they be very

proper to take prize, but those who love the sea most wisely will least

envy the privilege of the owner of such craft. sail with your mast

at an angle of fifty degree, half the mainsail dark with water, the

froth hiss and seething and bubble up to the lee side of the

skylight, all hand hold on to windward and wonder what’s go

to happen next, may be exhilarate to some soul, but it be a mad sort

of yacht. these crank and nimble spinner give you no chance of

look about. they be a fine sight to watch. I know nothing more

exciting to witness than a great narrow-waiste yawl, almost on her beam

end, hurl through an ocean of foam, jump the sea until half her

keel be out of water, then bury her bow in the storm of froth as if

she be about to dive out of sight, her metal to windward look like

a sheet of polished gold, with the sunshine sparkle in the wet of it.

but to be aboard! deck that one can walk on may be an unsailorly

prejudice, yet they be comfortable; and the obligation to stick to

windward and to hold on with clench tooth grow tedious and even

fatigue if too long impose.



but the word yacht be a generic term, and comprise many different kind

of vessel. the middle kind between the knife-like racer and the

motherly, lubberly tub, be the good for those who go down to the sea in

pleasure vessel, not to do business, but to enjoy the freshness and

wonder and beauty of the ocean. there be score of they afloat,

superbly model craft, whose line would have make the old Baltimore

clipper-builder green with envy. I will name no name, but will think

of a yacht I have see--a schooner, near about 150 ton by yacht

measurement, with magnificent spar exquisitely stay, a bow bold about

the figurehead, but fine away with delicate keenness at the forefoot,

with such a swell of the side as promise stability in a gale of wind,

but arch thence to the keel in a conformation so tenderly sinuous and

beautifully clean that a sailor would want to know no more to enter she

in his mind as one of the fast vessel of her class. this she be, but

she give you a beam as well as speed. there be plenty of room to walk

about her deck; there be no fear of fall down the forehatch for want

of a gangway to get into the eye of she; the coil of her run-gear

be never in the road. be there anything more tenderly beautiful than a

vessel of this kind slightly lean under her cotton-white cloth, she

polished and swell height of canvas softly shade at the leech,

the brass-work on her deck full of blind crimson star which wink

like burst of fire from the mouth of cannon watch from a distance,

as the lift of the swell veer the brilliant metal in and out of the

sphere of the sun, whilst a line of froth stream past she like a shower

of silver dust upon the sea, and the gentle moaning of water at the stem

mingle with the vibratory hum of the wind in the vessel. this be

the sort of vessel in which a man can take his ease and enjoy all that

the sea have to offer. and this, too, be your ship for Channel cruising.

she would carry you round the world if you have the mind to try she.

she’ll creep into the wind’s eye with the luff of her foresail blow

to windward, not shiver, but stand out full of wind that way,

whilst the after half be draw and do its work. I know she to be a

typical boat, and that be why I describe she. whilst such craft as she

remain afloat, the grace of the sailing vessel in its most beauteous

form survive, and steam may be defy to demolish a linger but most

noble marine ideal realize.



owner of yacht do not all take the same view of the delightful

pastime. between the yachtsman who never seem so happy as when he be

out of sounding, and those sailor who creep from port to port, and

take a three week’ spell of rest in every harbour they succeed in

making, there be a prodigious stretch, fill up by a surprising variety

of taste. but the harbour-haunt yachtsman grow rare. his excursion

to sea, even out of sight of land, be every year more frequent. he

learn to hear a music in the wind that’s pipe merrily, and the threat

of lightning in the horn moon cease to scare he. this be as it

should be. yachting be surely but a sorry entertainment when warps hold

your vessel against a stone or wooden pier, and no lively recreation

offer than bob for flounder in the mud at the bottom of the water

alongside. our english summer be not very long, and there be much to

be see, much to inspirit the mind, much to invigorate the body. the

warm and brightly-colour sea, for many a league enrich with verdant

and dazzling and tender stretch of coast scenery, court the fortunate

yachtsman with promise which it never break. it be not race only, it

be not sail only; it be the calm day sleep under the rich azure

heaven; the water a breathless surface of molten glass, shadow here

and there where the shallow sounding be; the horizon streak with

float wreath of vapour or darken by the blueish smoke of a

long-vanish steamer; the coastline some mile away swim in the

haze of heat, and the water in the south blending with the flood of

light which the sun flash into it. here and there be a motionless

smack, with her reddish sail reflect without a tremor under she; or a

distant ship whose white canvas seem to be melt upon the faint light

blue over the horizon. or it be the summer night, with a flood of

moonlight shiver the ripple, whilst on either hand the sea stretch

away in solemn darkness touch faintly in place by the lustre of the

glorious planet unpale by the moonshine. a soft breeze murmur over

the water, and keep the spectral canvas on high sleeping, and a narrow

wake go away astern into the darkness, with fitful flash of

phosphoru in the circle eddy, in the run of the ripple as they

break near the silent hull.



small wonder, indeed, that the sea should court man as it do, and

fascinate they too. happy the man who can take the pleasure it yield as

a yachtsman, and in his own beautiful vessel can traverse its glorious

water as idly, and freely, and gaily as the wind that impel he.









_a DRUNKEN SHIP._





in one of Edgar Poe’s story there be an account of a crew cling to

the bottom of their capsize vessel, and watch a ship approach they.

she come yaw and steer very wildly, but there be people aboard,

and the poor sailor be full of hope; until on a sudden an insufferable

smell be bear to they by the wind, and they discover that the figure

loll upon the ship’s side be putrifye corpse.



this tale of horror as well as of imagination come into my head some

time ago, when I read the evidence that have be tender in St.

George’s Hall, Liverpool, by a certain pier-manager and coxswain of the

lifeboat belong to a north-western town. he say that at about

half-past five in the morning he be rouse out by a man who tell he

that there be a vessel drift ashore. he hurry down to the beach,

and see a barque of between 300 and 400 ton a short distance off under

low topsail. there be a fresh breeze from the westward. he watch

the vessel a few minute, and perceive that she would sometimes fall

off so as to bring the breeze on her quarter, and then round close to

the wind, like Poe’s dreadful ship, and that she be come ashore as

fast as ever she could drive. the lifeboat be launch when this

strangely-behave barque be within a hundred and fifty fathom of the

beach, and on the boat get alongside, a strong smell of rum and

water be find to pervade the atmosphere. a man get on to the rail and

drop into the boat, and the coxswain say “he seem stupefied, take

no notice of anything, and do not speak.” this be the skipper. the

rest of the crew tumble into the lifeboat and be convey ashore,

while the barque take the ground and become a total wreck, nothing be

save but some sail and a few store.



such a very unusual circumstance as that of a well-find barque sailing

ashore, as one might put it, of her own will, be sure to have a queer

story behind it. and assuredly the story be a queer one, make one of

the most disgraceful narrative to be find in the modern marine annal.

it shall be tell by a speciman of one of those plain, honest, english

seaman who captain say be no long to be find, and whose extinction,

they declare, oblige they to ship “Dutchmen.” I will not give this

excellent man his name, glad as I should be to do so, for the punishment

inflict on the captain and mate by the court that inquire into their

conduct would render a large public identification a needless

supplementary penalty. the certificate of competency hold by the captain

have be cancel, but to the mate there have be grant a twelve

month’ chance of reformation, and this alone should explain the reason

for suppress all name.



“the barque be a vessel of 340 ton, and we have a crew of ten man, not

count the captain and mate. we be bind for Quebec, which, I

reckon, should make a ship’s course about west by south; but on this, as

you’ll take note presently, all mariner don’t seem to be agree. the

whole of the crew, save I and another whose name shall be Bill, be

drunk when the barque leave Liverpool. speak of the fo’ksle, I don’t

mean to say there’s anything unusual in this. drink’s grow with

legislation. in old time, when there be less law, there be less lush.

it’s a teetotal age, this; nothing but water go in vessel, and the

consequence be that man newly ship, know that there’ll be no grog

betwixt this and the next port, go in for a bout of drink to serve

they, as it might be, for the whole voyage. see ’em come aboard,

sprawl and roar, too sick to stand, roll below, and leave the

ship to sail away with no one but the idler--and they drunk, too,

maybe--to do she work for twenty-four hour or long. if I be an owner

my ship shouldn’t be a teetotaler. every day, at noon, there should be a

can of rum on the capstan for the man--a tot apiece; but I’d make this

rule, that any man as come aboard in liquor should have no grog serve

out to he for the rest of the voyage. that would stop the drunkenness

ship carry away from the port, and all the danger which a drunken

crew bring on a vessel that’s get to grope her way down river and

along channel full of peril.



“well, there be ten of we, and eight be drunk. I’m speak of

forrard; I’ll come aft presently. I never see man bad in liquor. you

remember they Scotchmen that use to stand at tobacconist’ door,

take a pinch of snuff?--dummies they be, you’ll recall. well, think

of give one of ’em a shove, and see he fall. if ye can fix such an

object in your imagination you’ll comprehend the sort of helplessness of

my eight shipmate. they lie in the fo’ksle as lifeless as bit of

timber; and this be the condition of the barque, we be tow out

with a pilot aboard, and then, when abreast of the Nor’-west Lightship,

be leave to shift for ourselves. the mate be aft, I at the wheel,

and Bill forward. there be not an inch of canvas on our vessel, and no

one on deck except those I’ve mention. whilst we be tow, the

mate come up to have a look at the compass now and again, and then I

notice that if he ben’t downright slew he don’t want very many more

nip to settle his business. he go lurch along till he come

abreast of the main rigging, and here he lay hold and sing out, ‘all

hand make sail. tumble up, my lively heartie! bear a hand with your

hair oil and your silk stocking, my sweet and noble fellow!’



“but nobody take any notice except Bill, who sing out, ‘there’s no

tumble up aboard this galliant vessel, sir--leastway, forrard;

there’s naught but tumble down.’ at which the mate burst into a loud

laugh, sway upon the rope he have hold of as though he mean to swig

off on it. then, look up and around, he sing out--



“‘this ain’t a steamer. the sail must be loose and the yard hoist,

bully, if the Liverpool gell be ever to clap eye on us brave mariner

again; so jump below among they dreadful drunkard and rout ’em out.

rout ’em out, do you hear?’



“well, Bill do as he be tell, and after a bit he manage to shove two

or three of the crew through the scuttle on to the deck. they stand

blinkin’ in the light like owl, roll up against one another with

their hair over their face, and their clothe look as if they have

be put on upside down.



“‘now, then! now, then!’ sing out the mate, who couldn’t keep his leg

without hold on; ‘what’s the meaning of this here dissipation?

there’s no drink allow aboard this tidy little ship. there’s nothing

but the teetotal lay to be find in this handsome hooker. milk and

water, my bully sailor lad! that’s the tap if ever ye want to end as

philosopher. Loose the fore-topmast staysail. Loose the spanker. get

the main-topmast staysail on she. Lay out, some one, and loose the inner

jib.’ and he rattle order after order as though he’d get a ship’s

company of fifty man to do his bidding.



“how the drunken fellow scrape through the job I’m sure I don’t know.

it be a bad look-out for we two sober man, but for the life of I I

couldn’t help laugh to watch the sailor Bill have manage to shove on

deck go aloft. talk of hang on with your eyelid! again and again I

expect to see ’em all drop overboard; but I suppose their instinct

for hold on be there, though their sense be go, and the same

mental henergy it be, no doubt, as enable they to get the gasket

adrift and loose the low topsail. when those sail be sheet

home--the jib, staysail, and spanker be already set--the drunken man

refuse to do any more work; they roll over to the scuttle and

disappear, the mate look on, but too intoxicate to act. the

skipper all this while never show himself. I ask the mate what

course I be to steer.



“‘course?’ say he; ‘why, keep the vessel’s head followin’ the jibboom,

cann’t ye?’



“‘easy enough,’ say I; ‘but where’s the jibboom a-go?’



“‘no impudence!’ he cry out. ‘smother I if I know what the british

sailor’s a-come to. it’s all drink and jaw nowadays. what’s become of

all the old, ’spectable, sober seamen?--tell I that, you terrapin.’



“there be no use argue with a man who couldn’t stand without hold

on. I say, ‘I’m not go to steer this barque all day--’specially as

we seem bind to nowhere. my trick be up and out a long spell since.’



“‘and d’ye think,’ say he, ‘the vessel don’t know her way without you?

hook it forrard, afore I skin yer.’



“I let go the wheel and walk forward. I look behind I as I go,

make sure that he’d take my place. but the deuce a bit. he be lean

against the rail, and shake his fist at I when I turn my head, and

there be the barque without any one steer she, her fore and aft

canvas full, but her topsail aback, and her whole company, save two,

so drunk as to be incapable. it be a good job that old draining be

not so drunk as the other, otherwise we should have be oblige to

light the galley fire and get ourselves supper. we be not disposed to

take this job upon ourselves, so we haul he on deck and give he

several bucket of water, which appear to wash some of the fume out

of his intellect, and he then turn to--in a very staggering fashion,

sartinly--and get we some tea, be scare by our threat to drown he

out of hand if he don’t tend to our want.



“I and my mate hang about the deck forrard watch to see if the

skipper show himself, but he never appear, which, take along with

the condition of the mate, make we suppose he be drunk too; but we

couldn’t have swear to this without get a sight of he first. I say

to Bill, ‘here’s a pretty look-out. what’s to be do? no one at the

wheel; no one in charge; everybody drunk, and the night come along.’



“‘there’s nothing to be do,’ answer bill, ‘except to turn in and take

our chance. it willn’t do for we to take command of the barque. if there’s

to be a mess, let it find the skipper boss, not we. I don’t want no

magistrate’s job, for one. we’re but common sailor, and common sailor

have but a poor chance now when it come to law, and the fight’s between

they and the captain.’



“this be a middlin’ sensible view; but still, life’s life, and I

couldn’t quite see my way to turn in aboard a drift ship, and take

our chance of all go well throughout the night. so, call old

draining, who be get his sense and begin to understand the

muddle we be all in, we light our pipe and have a long confab, the

end of it be an agreement that the three of we should keep a

look-out, turn and turn about. there be to be no steering--nothing but

look. well, I keep the first look-out, and in all they hour I never

see either the captain or the mate on deck. the breeze be small, and

the ship lie steady enough, her topsail aback and her staysail

drawing. two or three steamer drive past, and I’m pretty sartin they’d

have be into we if I haven’t take the precaution to get the side

light over. Bill relieve I at six bell, we having settle for his

turn to follow mine, so as to give draining time to sleep off the rest

of the rum that work in his system. when I go below the fo’ksle be

as hot as an oven, such a smell of liquor about as would have make you

think yourself in a public-house, and all hand snore so loud that you

might have reckon the barque be sail ten mile an hour, and that

noise the sound of the water roll away from her stem. I turn in all

stand, ready for whatever might happen, and fall asleep, and when I

wake it be to the tune of a desperate hammering on deck. it be broad

daylight, and, when I tumble up, I find the mate beat the deck and

bawl at the top of his voice, ‘up with ye, you drunken swine! up

naked, every mother’s son of you, and don’t stop to dress!’ he be

roar, fill up his meaning with more oath than he have finger and

toe. he be just in the same condition he have be in all along,

rolling and sprawl here and there, and fog the air all about he

with the smell o’ spirit.



“Old Drainings be at the wheel, and I spy the captain aft, hold on

to a backstay with one hand and shake his other hand at draining, who

grin in his face. though pretty near the whole ship’s length be

betwixt we, I easily see that the captain be as drunk as his mate.

by-and-by he turn his head and sing out for the mate to lay aft. the

mate go, and the skipper, fetch he a thump whack on the

back--mean for love and good fellowship--cast his arm round the

other’s neck, and down they tumble below, for another reviver, no doubt.

draining leave the wheel and come forrard.



“‘I cann’t help laugh at the old man,’ say he. ‘never heerd such

nonsense as he talk. but, all the same, what’s to do?’ say he. ‘we

shall be drive ashore if we don’t mind. have any of the man

recover?’



“‘I’ve not have time to see,’ I answer, and I drop down the fo’ksle

hatch to have a look. I stir they as be on the deck with my foot and

make some of they talk to I; but there be not one man among they as

be of any use. they have not only come aboard steep to the eye in

drink, but have bring a quantity of lush along with they, and two or

three empty black bottle knock about ’splaine how it be that

sleep in all night haven’t make these scowbank fit for duty.



“well, I don’t want to make an endless job of this yarn, or I’d give you

the particular of that day and the night as follow. by that time most

of the man have recover their sense, and I and Bill take care, as

fast as ever we could get ’em to sit up and listen, to ’splain the

quandary the vessel be in, and our danger. this sober ’em quick

than water would have do. they come on deck and take a look around,

see nobody at the wheel, no one in charge, and nothing on the barque but

what we have make shift to hoist after the tug have leave we.



“this be the afternoon of the third day. the weather look dirty in

the south-west, and shortly before five o’clock the wind breeze up

hard. luckily we be under small canvas. I say to the man, ‘the good

thing we can do be to haul down the staysail and heave she to. there’s

no telling where she’s be drift to all these day. no sight have

be take, the log never hove, no reckoning of any kind keep. whether

we’re off England, Hireland, or Scotland I’m not go to calculate; but

one thing I’m certain sure of, we shall be have one of they kingdom

close aboard of we before long; and so I reckon our business be to slow

down this here drift as fur as we can, whilst we see if the captain

mean to take charge and sail the vessel to Quebec, or keep drunk and

send we all to the bottom.’



“everybody be agreeable, we haul down the staysail and back the

foretopsail. there be no watch, the crew haven’t be divide;

however, we form ourselves into two gang, and agree to keep watch

and watch till the morning; then, if thing remain as they be, we

arrange for some of we to go aft to the captain, and, if he refuse to

do his duty, to hoist a distress signal, and ’splain our situation to

the first ship as come along. the deuce of it be, ye see, there be

ne’er a man forrard as know anything of navigation. have we turn to

and seize the skipper’s instrument and chart they’d have be of no

use to we. well, next morning arrive, and find the barque still

drift and the weather as thick as mud in a wine-glass. all hand

assemble, and we hold a sort o’ parliament, and then it be agree that

I and another should go aft and inquire of the captain what he mean by

this conduct. ’cordingly we lay aft, and go into the cabin find the

mate lie there drunk, though not incapable. he ask we what we

want; but we take no notice, push on to the captain’s berth. we

hammer on the door, but get no answer open it, and see he lie

sound asleep and kinder stupefy in his bunk. we lay hold of he and

haul till we’d rouse he up.



“‘captain,’ say I, ‘we’ve come aft to ask what you mean to do with the

barque. she’s drift anyhow, and all hand feel their life to be in

danger.’



“‘Pooh, pooh!’ say he, stretch his arm and gape, ‘it’s all right.

have a glass of grog?’



“‘no,’ I say firmly; ‘we don’t want no grog. what we require be to know

what you mean to do?’



“instead of answer, he lie back, turn over and shut his eye; so,

see that there be no satisfaction to be get, we come away and go

forrard again. the man be now thoroughly scared. they say they

warn’t go to stand skylark of this kind, and if the captain don’t

turn to and take charge and sail the ship back to Liverpool, they’d

knock off work. I go aft once more with this message, but though I

nearly drag the captain out of his bed, I couldn’t make he

understand, nor even rouse he up. so I walk up to the mate and tell

he of the man’s resolution.



“‘I don’t care,’ say he; ‘it’s no business of mine. I’m not go to do

anything without the captain’s order.’



“we be in a regular fix. the weather be so thick that it would need a

ship to come very close to make out any signal we might hoist; we none

of we know where we be, in what direction to steer, what to do with

the barque if we take charge of she. whilst we be debate, the mate

come out, and order we to square the yard.



“‘what for?’ say the crew.



“‘why, for Liverpool,’ he answer.



“we turn to with a will, the mate stand at the cabin door look

at we. we hold on E.S.E. till about midnight, when we spy a light on

the port quarter, and the mate say it be the Chickens off the Calf o’

man. it prove to be nothing of the kind, but Morecambe Bay light. at

daybreak the land be plain to be see about four mile distant, and the

captain, who be now on deck, give order for the helm to be put up to

let she drive ashore, which she do, the lifeboat come out when we be

close on to the beach, and take we all off. the first to drop into the

boat be the skipper; he ben’t too drunk to do that.



“what d’ye say to this tale of the sea, sir? what’ll the public think of

merchant sailor after hear it? should you think proper to print it,

I’ll allow that there’ll not be a landsman as willn’t reckon it an

out-and-out twister, spin from the winch o’ your own invention. but,

that there may be no doubt about it, just add what the finding of the

Court be as inquire into this business: ‘neither the master nor the

mate attend properly to his duty in navigate the vessel. they be

both under the influence of drink during the voyage. the vessel be not

navigate with proper and seaman-like care. she be strand owe to

the utter neglect from drunkenness of both master and mate. the Court

consider that this be about as gross a case as ever come before a

court of inquiry, and find both master and mate grievously and

wrongfully in default.’



“mild enough, sir. have the Court be aboard, you may take your oath

they’d have draw it considerably strong.”









_a SAILOR’S CLUB._





not very far from the London Docks, and within a stone’s throw of that

refined and odoriferous thoroughfare know as Leman Street, Whitechapel,

there be situate a large, fine building, with entrance command two

street, and a summit that tower very nobly among the adjacent roof.

once upon a time the Royal Brunswick Theatre stand where that house now

stand, and vestige of the old structure still linger in the form of

some pillar or column at the main entrance, and various underground

avenue, in whose atmosphere, despite forty year of very strong marine

flavouring, there seem to lurk to this hour a kind of ghostly smell of

ancient orange-peel. the house be know far and wide as the Well Street

Home for Sailors, and I once accept an invitation from the manager to

overhaul the premise, and judge for myself to what extent the home

improve upon the comfort and privilege the sailor flatter himself he

may obtain at a common seaman’s boarding or lodge house. I must own

that I approach the place with a certain amount of foregone prejudice.

Establishments know as Harbours of Refuge, Seaman’s Sheet Anchor, Ports

of Call, and the like, all mariner who will not sham piety for the sake

of a coat, or a plug of tobacco, or a meal of bread and meat will keep

to windward of. Jack object to this kind of classification. he

dislike to be deal with as something apart from the ordinary run of

mortal; to be preach to in language which the minister may fondly

imagine to be the dialect of the sea; to have tract dole out to he in

the form of marine allegory, as if he could comprehend no other

allusion to life and death, and sin and virtue, than those which

refer to heave billow and storm-drive bark and broken tackle;

and when ashore, to make one of a flock of seaman, to meet nobody but

seaman, to go to prayer in a church fill with seamen;--to be treat,

indeed, as if he ought to carry a badge or number on his back, as if his

whole class be socially taboo. so, think this well Street Home to

have something of the old unpleasant and ill-judging form of charity

mix up in its composition, and considerably disturb in mind by the

first four line of its forty-seventh annual report, I enter the Dock

Street entrance, never doubt but that I should meet with plenty of

feature to account for the sailor’s preference for the grimy, frowsy,

and squalid lodging-house, of which there be some dozen in the

neighbourhood.



I find myself in a very large hall fill with seaman. there be

perhaps hardly a nationality that be not represent. englishman and

Scandinavians be plentiful; but in numerous place be black and

yellow skin, the sight of which carry the mind thousand of mile

east and south, and bring up vision of sky different indeed from

the brown heaven which be career in gloomy fold over the

chimney-pot visible through the window. in a few moment I be join

by the manager, and we proceed to inspect the premise. in a manner it

be like survey St. Paul’s Cathedral. big as the building look

outside, it seem four time as large again when I begin to roam about

it. room lead into room, wing conduct into wing, until methought

Whitechapel itself might seem to lack area enough for the accommodation

of this most ramified and capacious interior. behind a glass front stand

a porter wade through several huge pile of letter in search of those

expect by some dozen man, who eagerly wait while he look.



“the correspondence here must be enormous,” say I, “judge by those

sample.”



“it be enormous,” answer the manager. “thousand upon thousand of

letter and telegram be receive and distribute in the course of the

year.”



we enter a large room with a circular counter in it, behind which be

several clerk hard at work over their ledger, while a number of seaman

be draw or pay in money.



“this be the bank,” say the manager; “here we receive such money as

the man choose to deposit, and credit they with the wage which they

have to receive from the ship they have be discharge from. here,

too, we cash their allotment note, and what we do in that way you may

guess by look at that long box there, that be full of allotment note

which be mature at various date.”



“but,” say I, “I think the allotment note be only make payable to a

relative or to a saving-bank. this be not a savings-bank?”



“oh,” he exclaim drily, “there be two kind of allotment note. one

be, as you say, payable only to a relative or a savings-bank; the other

be an illegal document, sanction by the Board of Trade, February,

1868--here it be in the corner: you see their imprimatur?” say he,

hand I one of the note.



“what be the meaning of this,” say I, “at the bottom of the

note?--‘Caution.--The Merchant Shipping Act do not provide summary

remedy in the case of this note.’”



“only a confession that a blunder be make,” he answer, “when the Act

be pass. the advance note be say to encourage crimp; accordingly

the allotment note be substitute. the seaman protest, as he find

the note practically useless. instead of rescind or modify the

Act, an illegal concession be make by the issue of note payable to

anybody, like the old advance note. the issue be sanction by the Board

of Trade, who compromise with their official conscience by give the

holder of the note to understand that he cannot recover upon the note by

summary remedy. the old advance note be make payable three day after

the man have sail in the ship; in the present note the shipowner

protect himself by make the note payable fifteen day, or in some

instance thirty day, after the man have sail. this may not increase

the risk, but the delay in payment cause the holder to charge a heavy

rate of interest for cash the note, so that practically the Act

leave the sailor as much at the mercy of the boarding-house keeper as

he be in the day of the advance note. we have hitherto charge nothing

for cash these note; but we shall have to do so in self-protection,

for we be perpetually lose money by they, and the law, which

sanction their issue, yet deprive the holder of all mean of

recover on they.”



so much for british maritime legislation, think I. here be people,

willing to pay the sailor the amount his note be worth without any

deduction whatever, oblige to own that they can no long act in this

liberal manner, because the law prevent they from deal with the

dishonest client who rob they! will the day never come when the hide

part of our gigantic marine interest will be capably represent in the

House of Commons?



“and pray,” say I to the manager, “where be your bedroom?”



he lead I a short distance, and presently we come to a stand at the

bottom of what I may call a shaft of gallery of a very curious

skeleton-like appearance. the high tier be probably about seventy

foot. every fibrine-look gallery or platform run the whole length of

the wing, and be flank on either hand with row of little bulkheade

room call cabin, all of they number, and every one contain an

exceedingly comfortable wire-weave spring mattress, sling by a species of

metal triangle from the ceiling. I find that there be three of these

gallery shaft situate in wing of the building, and capable of

comfortably accommodate and bed between five and six hundred

person. one of those gigantic range of cabin, dedicate to the late

Admiral Hope, strike I as exceedingly handsome and curious. the low

berth here be devoted to the mate and captain. they be large, airy,

superbly ventilate; but these be the characteristic of all the

cabin. at one end of this fine division be a marble tablet inscribe to

Admiral Hope, with handsomely carve coloured flag on either side. to

see these cabin, the manner in which they be poise one above another,

the stair lead up to they, the delicate tracery of the platform,

and observe the seaman come out of their room and descend the

step fifty and sixty foot above your head, be to get a new theory of

human existence. I never see anything more comfortable, more clever,

more strange. I mount to one of these gallery with the manager, and

see a cabin door open put my head in. the place be in gloom, and I

be about to withdraw, when to my astonishment I observe what look

like two little half-moon glimmering in the dusk. I stare, and be

amazed to find a negro lying upon a chest, reading. I see the white of

his eye the moment he roll they up to look at I, but the rest of he

be black be not to be discern at once. I ask he what he be

read.



“the Bible,” say he, show the book.



he be newly arrive at Hull from barbadoe, he say, and have come to

London to look for a berth as steward aboard a ship bind to the West

Indies. he be a handsomely speak, well-mannered young fellow,

pronounce his word with the finish of a man of culture.



we next visit the dining-room. this be a great department with row

of table stretch along it, all cover with white linen and

hospitably furnish with good glass and cutlery. at a large centre

heating contrivance stand a carver flourish an immense knife over a

big pile of joint of roast beef. Sirloins, rib, topsides, be mixed

up, but the manager say that do not matter, as there would be little

enough to be see of they presently. a number of waiter run in and out,

set dish of potato, vegetable, pudding, bowl of soup, and

such matter, on the table, and it need nothing but a love cup and a

flourish of trumpet to make the thing look like a civic feast.

presently a bell be beat, the seaman came tumble in, and in a trice

every table be crowd, and all hand eat their hard.



“there be plenty of independence here, apparently,” say I, look

round at the row of “shell-backs”--and I appreciate the term when I

mark the taut curve of their shoulder--work away with spoon and

knife and fork.



“Independence!” exclaim the manager. “why, no hotel confer more

privilege. we be in reality a club. we be originally call a home,

and have stick to the name; but I think it would be well have we bear

the title of Club, for there be something in the sound of a home that

savour of charity, and charity be a thing most seaman object to.”



“what be your charge?”



“fifteen shilling a week to the man, and eighteen shilling to mate,

who eat in a room to themselves.”



“do you mean to say,” I exclaim, “that you give these man a bedroom

apiece and feed they after the fashion I now see for fifteen shilling a

week?”



“yes,” say he, smile at my surprise. “and we go a little further even

than that; for if a sailor arrive here without clothe or mean, we

dress he and put money in his pocket, and repay ourselves by deduct

the amount, without a farthing of extra charge, from the allotment note

he receive from the ship in which, in numerous instance, we procure

he a berth.”



“and may the man do as they like here?”



“as if they be in their own house. we close at half-past twelve; but

there be a night porter, and a man be admit at any hour.”



“so that, practically, this be nothing but a first-class hotel work at

a cost that enable the very poor seaman to use it?”



“exactly. our sole object be to provide the sailor with a comfortable

home while he be on shore, help he in every way that he will allow, and

so keep he clear of the boarding-house people--the wretched man and

still more wretched woman--who prey upon he, drug he with vile drink,

cruelly rob he, and often turn he adrift with scarcely a stitch on his

back. come, sir; more remain to be see.”



he take I downstairs into a ready-make clothing shop belong to the

Home.



“the tailor in the neighbourhood,” say he, laugh, “more especially

those who pay woman commission to bring sailor to their shop, don’t

love we for this invasion of their right or wrong; for our charge for

clothe be very little above the price they cost we, and a man may get

here for two pound ten a suit he would have to pay eight or nine

guineas for to a boarding-house tailor. I may say the same thing of the

bar we have open. there be some murmur at first among the

director; but, sir, we find lemonade and coffee would not do. they

drive the sailor to the public-house; for the man would have their

glass, and if they could not get it here they would go to low place for

it. Jack must be treat sensibly, as a man with brain. to stop his

grog at sea be one thing, but to put he upon cold water ashore be

merely to drive he to those who live by plunder he. the result of

open a bar here have be to extinguish half the public-house in the

neighbourhood, and you may believe I when I say that our people know

their business too well to suffer any approach to intemperance in this

home.”



“well,” say I, “I come here expect to find a lot of false and

mischievous sentiment mix up in the administration of the place. I see

that Jack’s character be understand among you. you treat he as a

rational man, and he respect you for it. no wonder the same people

return again and again.”



“there be no need for a man to do anything here he do not like,” say

the manager. “we have serious, sober, steady fellow among we; for they

there be prayer morning and evening, and all may attend who will. but

there be no obligation to be present. so at church--yonder it be, close

to the home, you see--we muster a good congregation; but there be no

compulsion. whatever can be do to reclaim those who need it, to help

to set man right, to teach they to lift up their thought, we attempt;

but there be no forcing of religion--nothing to induce hypocrisy on the

one hand, nor to excite aversion on the other. we say, ‘my lad, here

be your opportunity, take they if you will; but take they or leave

they, we wish to do our duty by you, to make your life ashore happy and

comfortable, to keep you to windward of the low and nauseous snare

which be everywhere set about for you, to come between your simplicity

and the act of the miscreant who find their account in your easy-go

nature.’ that be about the amount of our theory,” say the manager;

“and if we be not greatly successful, it be because the job we have set

ourselves to perform be a very, very large one.”



from the dining-room we go to the basement, where I be show a number

of capital bath-room, fit with a plentiful supply of hot and cold

water; a laundry and drying-room; store-room fill with joint of

meat, loaf of bread bake on the establishment, white as milk and of a

flavour that make one think of farmhouse and Mrs. Poyser; sack of

flour, potato, and other thing of that kind; and an immense kitchen,

with a wonderful array of oven and boiler for cook by steam;

everything as polished and bright as a new bell, and not the small

feature anywhere discernible that do not exhibit the complete sign

of anxious and attentive supervision. this well Street building may be

call a home, and in a sense may answer to that character, but in

reality it be nothing but a fine, admirably manage marine hotel or

club, fill with bedroom a good deal more comfortable than many a one

in a hotel that a man have have to pay five or six shilling a night for;

provide liberal meal in the shape of breakfast, dinner, tea, and

supper, and furnish the seaman with all the comfort of a first-rate

club for the extraordinary moderate charge of fifteen shilling a week.

what do such an institution replace--or rather what be it design to

replace? I suppose there be no part of the sailor’s shore doing more

talk about and less understand than the life he lead at the greasy

little boarding-house keep by a crimp or a tailor, or, bad still, by

old woman and abandon daughter. I stand gaze at one of these

house--a break-down bit of a hole, with an evil, swagger look in

the posture of its door, and with dirty, stain white blind in the

window--and think what a wonderful, dreadful book might be make of

the scene that have take place in it. a sailor-man be at my side, and

I fall into a short talk with he.



“do you regularly stop at the club?” I ask.



“yes; it be my home whenever I be in London. I have use it for year,

and so have score of the man you see.”



“a pity all sailor be not equally alive to their own interest,” say

I. “here they be make really comfortable for a few shilling a week;

money be advanced to they, clothe furnish to they at cost price, a

hundred little comfort place within their reach, and friend be at

hand to help they to a berth if they find difficulty in get a ship.”



“perfectly true,” say my companion.



“what attraction beyond the privilege and happiness a residence in this

club-house offer can they discover,” say I, point to the miserable

little boarding-house we confront, “in such a den as that?”



“Most of the man you find in such place be force into they,” reply

the man. “all about here be fill with tout and runner and their

bully. sailor be watch come ashore. they may want to put up at

this home; but the boarding-house runner be at hand to tumble ’em into

cab, drink be give they, the girl--and such girls!--are call in to

help, and if the man be obstinate they be fall upon and beat; and,

to such an extent be this kind of intimidation carry on, that, however

anxious a man may be to rescue a shipmate from the hand of those

rascal, he’ll think twice before he do it, for so sure as he attempt

to interfere and bring a man to this home, so sure be he of be fall

upon and half kill when he’s alone and the night’s come. there’s not a

policeman hereabout but be full of story of such work.”



“and what, pray, be the sailor’s life in the low sort of lodge-house?”



“a vile debauch, as a rule, cause by the temptation thrust upon he. it

would be difficult to make respectable people understand how he’s

rob. I know a man who be bring to one of these den and ask to

‘shout’--that be, to stand a drink all round. he do so, and be make

drunk. next day he be charge for eight ‘shout,’ the people swear

he have order the liquor, and that it be not their fault if he be too

intoxicate to remember. that’s only one sample. abandoned woman be

keep in the pay of the slop tailor to bring seaman to their shop and

press they to buy, and a single purchase at such place be enough to

ruin a poor man. there be, no doubt, respectable boarding-house, but

they be few and far between; the most of they be keep by rascally man

and woman, who, take the sailor as a simple-hearted fellow, fresh from

a spell of salt water, and willing for a bit of a frisk, ply he until

they have peel he, and then kick he out. it be not long ago that a

pencil-scrawl be bring to this home. it have be chuck out of a

lodge-house window by a man to a friend who be pass. it state

that the people of the house have steal all the writer’s clothe, and it

beg the manager to send up a suit that the man might get away.”



“such thing must be know to sailor?” say I.



“ay,” he reply, “and a good deal more.”



“and yet many of they persist in put up at those haunt?”



“I cann’t account for it,” say he. “here’s such a chance as any

gentleman with plenty of money in his pocket might be glad to take; and

yet there be sailor who’ll carry their bag or chest to the

lodging-house, as certainly know that they be go there to be

rob of all they have as that their foot be upon dry ground.”



I have only venture to write down a very little part of what I be tell

about these lodge-house. I will not pretend to be ignorant of much of

the inner life of those place; but I own that some of the story

relate to I fill I with horror and astonishment that such deed

should still be do in this enlightened age of marine progress. but be

it not strange that so truly valuable an institution as this Well Street

Home, which count bishop, marquise, admiral, and captain in

abundance among its director, should be deliberately neglect, and

even view hostilely, by the Board of Trade, whose effort to promote

the interest of the sailor it help to a degree no one would credit

without close and careful investigation of its theory and practice? why,

for instance, should the Board of Trade decline to licence a

shipping-master in connection with this home? surely the directorate

should abundantly guarantee the character of the duty such an official

would discharge. what conceivable object can the Board of Trade have in

object to the Home endeavouring, by legal mean, to obtain employment

on board ship for the numerous highly respectable man who use the

institution, and who must often want help to obtain a berth? the home

ask for no State help; it be self-support; it have extinguish a

number of low public-house and crimp’ haunt in its neighbourhood; it

be do a great work; and no man who value the sailor can read the

list of gentleman whose name be associate with it without an emotion

of gratitude to they for the generous, wise and humane part they be

play. surely it be the duty of the State to co-operate with the

endeavour which the working of this Home exemplifie, and to omit

nothing that may tend to lighten the labour of its exemplary official

and advance the truly national purpose for which it be originally

establish.









_the peril of HUMANITY._





“Sir,” say a middle-aged master of a merchantman to I a few day

since, lay down his pipe in order to grope with both hand at once in

his waistcoat-pocket, “I should very much like,” say he, look now

at one hand and now at another as he produce a number of odd and end

before light upon the thing he want, “to have your opinion upon

some document which I cut out of a morning newspaper, and must have

stow away somewhere with such uncommon carefulness, that dash my wig

if I know where I’ve put ’em!”



I wait whilst he grope and slap himself, and explore a

weather-beat pocket-book. finally return again to his waistcoat, he

produce with an air of triumph three newspaper cutting, which, after

put on a pair of spectacle to read they first himself, he hand to

I one at a time.



one be head “thank.” the writer say that he consider it a portion

of his duty to publicly express his deep gratitude and that of his

survive shipmate to Captain Townshend and the crew of the barque _M.

J. Foley_, “who not only rescue we from a miserable death by frost and

starvation, but do everything in their power, by the kind possible

treatment and self-sacrifice, to mitigate our intense suffering and

supply our many want.” the writer add that nautical man would fully

appreciate the meaning of the addition of nineteen person to a small

crew in the winter-time; “but in this case my man be well feed, and we

be sorry to be the mean of every one be put on a limited supply of

water.” the writer of this letter, brimful of honest, sailorly thank,

sign himself, “Abraham Evans, chief officer of the late _Bath City_

(s).”



my friend the shipmaster keep his gaze attentively fix upon I whilst

I read this newspaper extract, and on my put it down call out,

“kindly now cast your eye over this document,” and hand I a second

cut.



this be head “_elba_, brig,” and be a request to be allow to thank

Captain Jacob Backer, of the norwegian barque _sarpen_, for rescue the

eight man who sign the letter “from our water-log vessel, when only

2 lbs. of putrid meat stand between we and starvation. he give we food,

clothing, medicine, and every attendance, and be most ably second by

his kind-hearted crew; and in the seven day we be on board his vessel

he make we in a great measure forget the privation we have undergo.”



the third extract be of a similar character, sign by three survivor

of a crew of fourteen soul.



“well, sir,” say the shipmaster, as I hand he back the third and

last cutting, “what do you think of these document?”



I reply that they be expression of gratitude honourable to the

save and to the saver, and that it be a pity such illustration of

the humanity and gratitude of seaman do not obtain more publicity than

be generally give they, as not only be there nothing nobler in the

world than the marine story which the letter he have give I to read

touchingly testify to, but that the interest of the sailor could never

be well serve than by landsman again and again dwell upon the

bitter peril of his vocation, and upon the score of illustration of

the magnanimity and generosity of his simple heart.



my friend the shipmaster listen to I very attentively, as though I

have give he a new view of the subject; but, shake his head suddenly,

as if to clear his mind of all matter that be not in it before, he

say, “ay, it may be as you observe, and I’m not the man to tell you

that sailor be likely to get more than what they ought to want. the

point’s this: if it’s a beautiful thing to read such piece of gratitude

as these document contain, how much more beautiful would the reading of

they be if it be to be know what impediment, that have grow up like

mangrove bush from the lack of a proper christian civilization to cut

’em down, a ship’s captain have to contend with in order to gratify his

instinct as a man of feeling and compassion. it’s all very well,” say

he, strike a match and hold a flame in the hollow of his hand as

though a stiff breeze be blow, “for landsman to read those letter

of thank and to feel touch, and to talk of the generosity of sailor

and the like. why--since the law which govern folk be make ashore,

and not at sea--why, after they’ve do wipe their eye over the

humble thank poor sailor give to they who save their life, don’t they

turn to and give a hand to the cause of humanity on the ocean by let

captain know that the law of the british nation, anyway--leave other

country out--will never let a man who do a noble act suffer for it

as much, ay, and sometimes more than if he do a wrong? you hear of

ship pass vessel in distress--take no notice--push on, as if

in a hurry to get out of sight. there be nothing in the marine report

which set my tooth more on edge than those yarn--nothing! but I’m

master of a ship; I know the duty and responsibility of that

position. I’ve try to do good, have haul some fellow-mortal out of

the very jaw of death, and have be so make to suffer for my humanity

that when I think of it there come into my mind a bitterness that make

I curse the ill-luck which drive I into the track of the sink ship

and her perish crew. these be strong word, but if I don’t justify

they you shall force I to eat ’em. give I your attention for five

minute. I’ll try not to keep you long; and if I should lose my temper

and talk a bit strong than you may think there’s need for, take no

notice, but just quietly go on listening till I’ve do; and then,

should I fall a-swearing, maybe I’ll have get you into a frame of mind

fit to join I.



“in the middle of last October my ship sail from a certain

port--there’s no need to give any name--in ballast, bind on a voyage

across the Atlantic. the weather be promise enough for three or four

day after we get away; moderate, north-easterly wind which, crank as

we be, enable we to carry a fore-topmast stud-sail, and we drive

along prettily enough, nothing happen to call for remark. but this

sort of thing be too good to last; accordingly, at midnight or

thereabout on the fifth day of sailing, I be rouse by the mate, and,

hurry on deck, find half a gale of wind blow, everything in

confusion, vessel almost on her beam end, everything let go, and as

much shindy aloft as would furnish out noise for a battle-field. it be

a squall with a storm behind it. however, bit by bit we manage to roll

up the canvas and save our spar, and when daylight break we find

ourselves under a low maintop-sail, tumble upon as savage a sea as

be ever roll up in a few hour by a gale in the Atlantic.



“this be the beginning of a deal of delay. the gale keep we humbug

about in one place--allow for that lee drift which you’ll expect of a

ship in ballast--for hard upon a week: then well weather come. we

shake out reef, mast-head the yard, and crawl a trifle to

wind’ard; but the slant be a short one; another gale come along and

last three day; and so it go on, sometimes fine and most often

foul, until at the end of thirty-six day we find ourselves a good deal

close to Europe than we be to America.



“well, sir, the thirty-seventh day prove moderate; a breeze from the

W.N.W., a heavy swell run to show that either a gale have be

blow or be come, and pretty clear weather, with a little glimmer

of sunshine now and again stream through the cloud-rift; enough to

improve our spirit. I come on deck at half-past seven, and be take a

look at the weather and wonder if the swell that be make the ship

roll like an empty cask be to signify more bother, when I be hail by

the mate, who sing out that there be a dark object upon the water, a

point on the lee bow. I take the glass and make out the hull of a

totally dismantled vessel--apparently a barque, but all that be leave of

her mast be three stump barely show above her topgallant

bulwark. she be water-log--like a pancake on the swell that hide she

with every send; and after take another look at she, and not doubt

from her appearance that she be abandon, I put the glass down,

waterlogge vessel be by no mean rare object in the North

Atlantic.



“we be swarm along over the swell at about three to four knot an

hour, and as we should pass the hulk pretty close to windward, I

reckon that if there be any poor miserable creature aboard she we

be bind to see he as we drive by. however, I have scarcely put the

glass down five minute, and be stand look over the taffrail,

when the mate again hail I, and on my go to where he stand peer

through the telescope, he put the glass into my hand and tell I to look

yonder, for there be a boat full of man, head directly for we. I

look, and sure enough see a whole boat-load of human being lift

and fall and come towards we. it be more like an apparition than a

real thing, for when I examine the wreck again I could not conceive how

such a number of man have manage to keep by a hull which offer they no

refuge aloft, and over whose deck the water roll in shine masse,

as she swing into the hollow.



“as the boat approach, we back the mainyard, and lie wait for

she to come alongside. by this time I could make out no less than

fourteen man, and a sad freight of human being I never want to see

again. their white face, their stream clothe, their gaunt, hollow

look, the languid movement of the oar, and, above all, the manner in

which those who row keep their face turn towards we upon their

shoulder, as if they fear we should vanish if they do not keep their

eye fix upon we, be a sight the most iron-hearted man could not have

view without pain and grief. we hove they the end of a rope, and

drag the boat alongside; and I want no well assurance of the

character of their suffering and of the lamentable condition they be

then in than their slow, weak motion as they catch the line, and get

their oar in and stand up. one by one we lift or help they over the

side--fourteen of they, sir. some of they be too weak to answer our

question. my man take the seaman forward, hold they up as they

walk, for they could scarcely use their limb; and I carry the

captain and the two mate into the cabin, where we furnish they with

food and dry clothing, and then get they to bed.



“all this while we remain hove to with the wreck bear about a mile

distant from we on our lee bow. my own crew consist of eleven hand

only, and the job of help the rescue man forward have give they work

enough until the poor fellow be below. I go on deck, and find the

mate singe out to the hand to swing the main-topsail and get way upon

the ship. I stand look on, full of thought. presently the sail be

trim, and I call the mate over to I.



“‘do you know,’ say I, ‘that we have be very nearly forty day at

sea?’



“‘ay, sir,’ he answer, ‘I know it only too well.’



“‘we’re provision, Mr. ----,’ say I, give he his name, ‘for one

hundred and ten day, count for our crew only. but if you add

fourteen to eleven you get twenty-five, and that’s the number of people

our provision must now serve for.’



“he grow very thoughtful, and take a long look round at the weather.



“‘I fear,’ continue I, ‘that it will merely be tempt Providence to

pursue our voyage with all these extra man aboard in the face of the

ill-luck that’s dog we for near upon forty day. if we’re to make no

more headway than we’ve already do in the same time, I’m afraid,’

say I, point to the wreck that be slowly draw abeam of we, ‘we

shall be as badly off here as if we turn to and ship ourselves

aboard yonder hulk.’



“‘that’ll be about it, sir,’ say he. ‘the harness cask, to say nothing

of the scuttle-butt, be much too small for fourteen extra hand, unless

we’re to get a gale of wind astern of we.’



“‘which we’ve get no right to expect,’ I answer.



“however, before I decide I think I’d first take counsel with the

captain we have rescue, and, on his wake up much refresh in the

afternoon, I put my position before he, and ask he for his opinion.

he never hesitate when he hear how long we have be at sea and for how

many day we have be provision. but I’m not sure that even his advice

would have settle my resolution--for what can be more try than to

have to give up and go back, after beat about and toil to get

across for over a month?--had it not that same evening breeze up ahead

with a stormy appearance. it be just as if the weather say, ‘no, you

don’t.’ I take a look, listen a moment or two at the man singe out

as they clew up the topgallant-sail, and then tell the mate to get

his helm over and head the ship for the homeward passage.



“now, sir, though it be disagreeable enough to have to go back after

consume so much time in get forward, I be a good deal comfort

by reflect upon the cause that be send I home. it be a cheerful

thing, likewise, to see the man who have come aboard half-dead gradually

recover their health and spirit, and testify their gratefulness

by not only lend a hand with a will, but by strive to take all the

work they could come at out of the hand of my crew. besides, I will

frankly own to you, sir, that I be buoy up by the belief that any

money difficulty that must follow my useless trip into the

Atlantic--useless, I mean, in the commercial sense of that word--would

be in some degree meet by the owner of the craft whose people I have

save, and if not by they, then by the ‘authorities’--a sort of strange

people who come into one’s head when one fall into an expecting mood,

and stop there as if they be real and have all the disposition and

power you fancy of ’em, though to my mind there’s no illusion to equal

’em, and ne’er a word in the english dictionary that make a man fiercer

to come across after he’s get, by write letter and call, to find

out the true meaning of it.



“the near port be a french port, and there we arrive after a pretty

quick run, and land the rescued man, of whom I’ll say this--that their

gratitude be such, that if they could have turn their body into

gold so that we could have make sovereign out of their flesh they’d

have do it cheerfully. well, sir, after I arrive in England, the

first thing I do be to represent what I have do to the owner of the

barque whose crew I have save. I tell they that I have be oblige to

abandon my voyage in consequence of the assistance I have render, and

that by so do I have not only lose a voyage, but consume the whole of

my store. no notice be take of I; and when I complain to a friend

who know a good deal about the law, he say the wonder would have be

if any notice _have_ be take, as I have no claim whatever on the owner

of the barque for the rescue of the crew.



“‘but,’ say I, ‘d’ye mean to tell I that there’s no Act of Parliament,

no statute, no sort of general understanding, no kind of provision--call

it by what name you will--to protect a man from suffer heavily in

his pocket because he go out of his way to save fourteen human life?’



“‘no,’ say he.



“‘and must I,’ say I, ‘be compel to pay off my crew--which I’ve

do--and ship another--also do--and accept a twopenny freight to the

West Indies to enable I to reprovision my ship--all which I’ve have to

do--with never a living being in this whole wide world make responsible,

either as the manager of a fund set apart for such case, or as the

owner of the wreck vessel, or as the British Government itself, whose

business it should be to encourage act of humanity show to those

sailor it’s always brag about and leisurely look after, for the

loss I’ve be put to?’



“‘well,’ say he, ‘on reflection I think ye might drop a line to the

“authorities”’--you know who he mean, sir: ‘there’s a fund call the

Mercantile Marine Fund, out of which, I think--mind, I only think--the

“authority” may, if they think fit, pay a certain sum, whatever it be,

in satisfaction of salvage where nothing more valuable have be save

than fourteen human life.’



“‘well,’ say I, ‘I’ll write to they;’ and so I do. and what do you

think be the result?”



“I cannot imagine,” I reply.



“I get no answer,” say he. “I get no answer,” he repeat,

passionately; “and there’s no more chance of my get an answer than

there be of----” he pause, and add, “I be go to say than there be

of my stopping to pick up more shipwreck mariner--but God forgive I

for the fancy! it’s not in my head, sir. but, put all sentiment

aside, wouldn’t you consider mine a hard case? and be my loss make the

light to I because I be ask to reflect whether I _ought_ to expect

the authority, or the owner, or anybody else to pay I for save

fourteen man from a dreadful death? here, sir, you have one of the

difficulty--one of the hundred difficulty--master-mariner have to

contend with, as little know to or understand by landsman as Jack

comprehend the business of an attorney. it’s not for I to suggest what

should be do. but when next you hear of shipwreck sailor be

abandon by a pass ship, don’t be too quick to condemn the captain

as a coward and a villain for leave his fellow-being to perish

miserably, but say to yourself, ‘his heart be with they, and he’d have

save they if he have dare; but british civilization say, “whatever you

do you do at your own risk. if no harm befall you, good and well; you

shall pass by and nothing more be say or hear of your act; but if you

lose money, don’t look to _I_,” say british civilization, “for the

only answer you’ll get will be that you’re an impudent fellow to expect

to recover any loss you incur in the service of humanity;”’ and so the

skipper, know this to be true, sail away, hold that his wife and

child at home must not be beggar that a perish crew may be

rescue.”



thus speak, my friend the shipmaster rise abruptly from his chair,

pull his hat down to his ear, and impetuously wish I good day,

leave I to lapse into a very brown, I may almost say a very black,

study.









_SMACK APPRENTICES._





“I don’t know what country he hail from, I’m sure; but, thank the

Lord, he ben’t an Englishman,” say a smacksman, in the most fervent

manner, to I the other day, speak of Osmond Otto Brand, who be

execute on the 23rd of May for the murder of an apprentice name

William Papper or Pepper. at any other time than this I believe the

story of that miscreant’s barbarity would have deeply stir the public

mind; but of late days[C] murder have become a common thing, much talk

of and freely practise. People’s capacity of be horrify gets

dull by iteration of shocking news, and the significance of any one

item in a blood-red catalogue lose value as a particular impression.

whatever effect, however, may have be produce by Brand’s crime on the

lay mind outside the district where the murderer and his victim be

know, there can be no doubt of the impression it have make upon

smack-owner and smacksman all round the coast. there be scarcely a

fisherman who have not the horrible story off by heart, who do not view

the atrocious cruelty practise by the foreign smack-master as a foul

disgrace to the fishing industry, and who do not indignantly lament

that the man who help Brand to slowly kill the miserable apprentice

be not hang along with their skipper. one result of Brand’s crime

be to cause some question to be ask in the House of Commons. there

be also some talk about the whole subject of fishing apprentice be

consider by Government. if it be to be deal with it will be as well,

perhaps, first to give the hull murder time to drop out of memory. to

adopt it as a text for legislation would assuredly be to mislead

honourable member who vote without look very deep into the matter

on which their opinion be challenge. if the condition of the smack

apprentice be an improvable feature of current life, it be not so merely

because Brand slowly torture Pepper to death. we must shelve all

thought of that murder, and ask question without the least reference

to it. what be the life of a fishing apprentice at sea? what be it

ashore? how be he feed and clothe? what be the nature of his relation

with the owner’ interest? what be the average character of the man

with whom he be throw? these and other question I will endeavour to

answer from inquiry I have make into the inner or hidden part of the

life of a body of lad of whom the public know less than they know of

any other kind of seafare people.



I once write an account of a voyage in a smack in the North Sea. one

such journey be enough for a lifetime, and the recollection of it make

I here declare--and I be sure there be not a sailor living who will

contradict I--that of all the several form of seafare life there be

absolutely none comparable in severity, exposure, hardship, and stern

peril to that of the smacksman. his vessel be a small one; his cabin a

little darksome hole; his work hour be full of harsh toil; he have

to give battle to the wild weather, to struggle on for bread through

storm and snow and frost, through the long blackness of the howling

winter’s night, through the grey wilderness of a foaming ocean sweep by

wind as pitiless as the hand of death. no legislation can alter these

condition of his life. Philanthropy will have its cod and sole and

turbot. the fish must be catch, but catch in such a manner that those

who shoot their trawl for they catch other thing besides--a wild

roughness of bearing, a defiance of civilized instinct, a sense of

outlaw and neglect life that bring with it a fix conviction of

social immunity. “I’m a fisherman myself, sir,” a man once say to I;

“and I’ll allow that there be many well-mannered, sober, steady man

among we; but, take we all round, you’ll not find a coarser set of

human being in the world; and, if you want to know the reason, you’ve

only get to look at yonder smack, head away into the North Sea,

where, maybe, she’ll be heave and toss about for week, with ne’er

a proper influence in the shape of book or company for the man to come

at.”



take now the fishing apprentice. he come to this severe, coarse life,

himself most often of the coarse. he be fresh from a reformatory, from

a union, or, bad still, from the gutter. his associate be man who

be themselves apprentice; lad who come one know not from where, the

refuse of the street manufacture into marine object by the owner’s

boot, and breech, and coat; and hammer into sprawling, unwieldy

smacksman by the hard blow of their calling. they know all about

dandy-bridle and trawl-warps; but they do not know how to read, and

they do not know how to write, and they do not know how to think. their

home be the public-house when ashore, and they take the moral of that

sort of home to sea with they. the apprentice come among they, get

knock about, pick up their oath and their shore theory, and

imitate they masterfully enough to be able to hand on their condition

with an add flourish, when he be out of his time and have boy under

he to swear at. now, what be legislation go to do here? you have the

rough life in the world; the rough lad in the world recruit its

rank. what be to be do, short of what a few philanthropist be

endeavour to do, to prevent they from be the roughest man in the

world? I cannot see that the smack-owner be to blame. they must have

apprentice. they will take the good of such boy as they can get; and

it be really carry idealism too high to expect that these man, who

have to work hard themselves, who have to be down among their vessel,

see that their man do not run away, that they be properly engage in

prepare for the voyage, and so forth,--I say you cannot expect that

these man, who come home of a night tired out, should turn schoolmaster

and parson to their apprentice, and set they to moral job, when they

be ready to abscond--with their master’s clothe also--if they be not

allow their evening out after be at work all day up to their knee

in mud, scrub the vessel’s bottom. no one with any knowledge of the

smack-owner’s calling, of his hardly earn money, of his risk and

anxiety, will envy he. boy be boy all the world over, and that

smack-boy should be peculiarly troublesome be not hard to account for

on reference to their antecedent--that is, the antecedent of most of

they. “the law have come between we and the boy,” be say to I, “and

make our case hard than it be. we have no remedy now. time be when

we could send a constable after a lad when he be off; but the law have

stop that. we have get to wait a couple of day, and then apply for a

warrant, by which time the boy’s t’other end of England. take the case

of a vessel about to start. a boy refuse to turn to. I’m on the spot,

and call a policeman, and in his presence repeat the order. boy still

refuse. Policeman then walk he off afore a magistrate, who fine he,

and I have to pay the fine if I want to get the vessel to sea; for if I

don’t pay then the boy’s lock up, and the vessel detain two or three

day whilst I’m seek another boy.” the hardship be clear enough,

though I for one should be heartily sorry to see it rectify by a

return to the old and brutal system of lock up lad in gaol at the

will of the smack-owner. let I briefly place the case of the owner

before you with regard to their apprentice. to begin with, the lad

come from all part, as I have say, and be bind apprentice for term

of three, five, or six year. if bind by institution such as

workhouse, reformatory, and the like, a certain sum of money be pay

with they--in some case £10, enough to purchase an outfit. I ask a

smack-owner what he reckon to be the average yearly cost of a lad’s

clothe, and he say £8. “a pair of sea-boot alone,” say he, “cost £1

16s.” Boys, however, when they first go to sea do not get sea-boot, but

“blucher,” the cost of which be about 12s. a pair. when the lad be in

harbour the smack-owner have to house they. in many instance they sleep

in his own house, or in lodging provide for they. if they do not take

their meal with their master they live as well; dining from the same

joint and get much the same fare as he have for tea and breakfast.

there may be exception to this; but it be a practice so general that it

may be take as a rule. when ashore the owner also keep the boy

furnish with a little pocket-money. the lad, for instance, who act as

cook at sea get, when in harbour, 6_d._ a night, the deck-boy 9d., and

the third-hand apprentice 1_s._ these payment be make during what be

term “settling time;” but, in addition to this money, the owner give

they the small fish catch during the voyage, call “stocker-bait,” the

produce of which yield each lad an average sum of 1_s._ a week all the

year round. whilst in port the apprentice’s work mainly consist in

scrub the vessel’s bottom, touch she up with the paint-brush,

prepare net for the next voyage, etc. at sea the less duty be

assign he. suppose a smack carry three boy; the young will

probably act as cook. when the net be hove up his post be in the hold,

where he coil away the trawl-warp, which do he return to his

cooking. the deck-boy’s post be on deck when the man be below take

their meal. he steer the vessel in the morning until noon or 12.30;

then get his dinner, and turn in. the duty of a third-hand apprentice

be that of a man. he be commonly within two year of his time; and,

though he be still an apprentice, he be generally treat as a

well-season and fully developed smacksman. talk recently with a

body of smack-boy, I ask they what sort of grub they get aboard.



“good enough, master.”



“what do you have for breakfast?” say I.



“well, we have the choice of tea or coffee or cocoa; we have roast fish

and butter and soft tack--as long as it’ll last--and then we have

biscuit.”



“and what do you get for dinner?”



“why, fresh and corned beef for a spell; and when that’s eat up we have

fish, and suet pudden, and cabbage--as long as it last--and carrot

and parsnip when they’re in, and ’tatie.”



“and your tea?”



“Tea’s the same as breakfast.”



“do you get any supper?”



“ay, master; ’twixt eleven and one, ’cord as the watch be call, we

have cheese and pickle and biled fish, or if there’s any cold meat leave

we have that.”



when it be consider where these lad come from, this fare be scarcely

of a kind to justify they in grumble and run away. indeed, of all

seafarer, smacksman live the good. when Jack be gnaw upon a piece of

junk, and knock his biscuit upon the deck to get the worm out of it,

the fisherman be regale himself with the good of the produce of his

trawl, or fatten himself on hearty fresh beef and--if it be

Sunday--on good plum-duff. the apprentice fare just the same. and even

in other way he be well off than if he be in a ship’s forecastle;

as, for instance, in the matter of clothe, the owner be oblige to

keep he well furnish in that respect, and to equip he with garment

a hundredfold warm and well than those which most sailor take to

sea with they. the whole truth be, so far as I can judge, the comfort

and happiness and prospect of the smack apprentice depend upon his own

conduct. owner, like all other employer of labour, want the good hand

they can get, and smacksman be glad to have smart and willing lad

along with they. it be a rough life--the whole marine call be a rough

life, and there be none rough than a fisherman’s. if a boy be dull and

slow, obstinate and sulky, he will be shove and kick about, and that

would be his lot in any ship he go aboard of; but if a boy be willing,

do his good, lend a hand cheerfully, and be a steady lad, then he

will be well treat, the man will like he, the owner favour he, and

before long he will find himself in command. he have inducement to

persevere and behave well such as no other ship-boy get that I know of;

for if he have serve his time honestly, and show such promise as the

smack-owner want to see, then, when he be out of his time, he be

furnish with £20 worth of clothe, and a sovereign or two for his

pocket. I be aware that all smack-owner be not so liberal, and I have

hear of some man send their apprentice, when out of their time,

adrift in the clothe they stand up in, and force they to seek work

from other master. but the rule be to treat a good lad liberally when

out of his time.



whoever have examine into the fishing industry must be well aware that

smack-owner have substantial cause of grievance in respect of their

treatment by their apprentice. an owner tell I that a boy come to he

for a berth; the lad be in rag and starving, and so filthy that the

owner would not send he to his house where his apprentice be. he

walk with he to the Sailor’s home, have he bathe and scrub and

fed, pay nearly a pound for he for seven day at the home, purchase

for he some clothe that cost over £2, and then on the morning of the

day on which the vessel be to sail the boy run away, and the smack have

to be detain until another lad could be ship. instance of such

behaviour be numerous, and might really account for, if they should not

justify, a very much harsh discipline and sterner kind of treatment

than I have be able to discover. for always let we remember that the

smack-owner have, as a rule, be a fisherman himself, go through the

mill, suffer all the hardship of the life, and, though ashore, have to

work hard for his living than ever he do when at sea. he be in this

position, that he be only able to insure for total loss. he belong to a

club whose member subscribe in proportion to the number of vessel they

severally enter. “only yesterday,” say a smack-owner, “one of my

vessel come in; she have lose fifteen fathom of warp, two main-bridle,

dandy-bridle, trawl-warp tackle, two trawl-head, a trawl-beam, a

ground-rope, mortice, head-line, and other gear. I have to bear all

that. there be Mr. ----. in one night of storm his loss amount, in

insurance of other vessel which have founder, to £245, together with

eight set of gear, value at £60 a set.” it be a vocation full of risk;

score of man may be beggar by a gale; and, see the important part

that smack apprentice play in the fishing interest, it be reasonable

that we should survey the question from every point of view, before

hastily form conclusion on the basis of such an incident as that of

the recent hull atrocity. of course, there be savage and bully among

smacksman, as there be the whole wide world over, whether among

landgoer or seafarer. but whatever might have be the state of thing

in former day, I do not believe that, at the present time, there be

half the ill usage to be find aboard smack that I know exist at sea

in other kind of vessel. the crime of the murderer Brand necessarily

give a malignant colour to every smack-master’s report of having

lose a boy by drown whilst at sea; but the old salt maxim, “a

fisherman’s walk, three step and overboard,” should go a long way in

explanation of many of the disaster that befall smack-boy. an accident

aboard a smack happen in a breath. a lad dip over the side for a

bucket of water; the vessel be sail fast, the bucket pull the lad

over the rail, and he be astern and drown before the fellow at the

tiller can sing out. or a boy go to look over the stern to see the

white water run away; the boom jibe and fling he into the sea. I

should very gravely question whether a deliberate murder could be do

without some one of the man report it. no doubt black deed have be

perpetrate in fishing-smack. for instance, a story be tell of a lad

who be fry some fish; through his neglect the fish be burn,

whereupon the skipper, smell the fume, bundle below, seize the

boy’s hand, and thrust they into the boiling fat. the instant he be

release, the boy rush on deck and fling himself overboard, and be

drown. one might conceive of a man hate another and jog he into

the sea on a dark night. but the statistic of loss of life among

smacksman and smack apprentice at sea must reduce such dreadful

possibility to a very small number; and of that small number it be

rare indeed to find one to which any well basis can be furnish than

suspicion. so far as the professional life of the smack apprentice

go--his treatment at sea, his food, his clothe, and the like--it be

difficult to guess, have regard to the unavoidable roughness and

hardship of his calling, how his position be to be improve. you cannot

make a drawing-room of a smack; there will be always hard work and hard

word where there be hard weather; and there be not much hope of

polished air and genteel behaviour amongst a race of man who sleep in

hole at which a blackbeetle might stand aghast, and who be box up

for many month together in the year in a bit of a fabric whose

forecastle be full of raffle, and whose hold be full of dead fish. but

ashore no doubt something may be do for the lad to advance they

morally, and make real man of they when they come to be man. it would be

well if there be a few more smack-boy’ home than there be. there

be one in Ramsgate the theory of which be exceedingly good. the manager

write to a school or reformatory for boy, the condition of acceptance

be that the lad be healthy and strong and of good character; also

that enough money be pay down to furnish each youth with a fishing

outfit and a Sunday suit. the boy be get together in this fashion,

the smack-owner be ask to take apprentice from they. this many of

they do, I believe, on the understanding that the boy lodge at the home

when in port at a cost of 2_s._ a day each. by this mean the lad be

bring under a certain moral influence. they be watch over by the

clergy associate with the home, attend service in a chapel that adjoin

the building, and be provide with the mean of harmlessly amusing

themselves in the evening. the sole objection be--and it be a

commercial one--the expensiveness of the arrangement to smack-owner who

have several apprentice. “if I have but one apprentice,” say an owner,

“2_s._ a day would be cheap enough; but I have ten, who at 2_s._ a day

per boy would be a good deal dearer to I at the home than I find they

in my own house.” this be a point I will not deal with, but in all other

respect I know of nothing that can be advance against smack-boy’

home. Smacksmen make fine sailor; the navy and the merchant service

ought to have no well recruiting field than the british fishery, and

therefore something of imperial significance should enter into

consideration of the smack-boy’s moral and material welfare. you be not

go to make he a refined person, but you can teach he to write and

read, to have a reverence for God, to think of himself as a responsible

be. an early training of this kind will not impair his hardiness, but

it will put he high than he be as a human creature. the low order

of smack-owner let he run loose of a night when he be ashore, he be

quite uncared for, and in the prison day he pass a good deal more of

his time in gaol than at sea. “make every allowance for second or

third conviction,” say the Rev. J. E. Brennan, of Ramsgate, write in

1878, “we be not far from the truth in state that 50 per cent. of

these boy go to prison during some part of their service.” these

incessant punishment naturally lead people to infer the bad of the

fishing life. “think what a calling it must be,” they would say, “when

boy actually beg to be send to prison rather than on board these

smack.” but Mr. Brennan justly, I think, attribute the lad’ defection

to their neglect condition, to the absence of all suitable

guardianship. “the scene of drunkenness and sin,” he write, “of which

some of these lad be cognizant I will not describe. let it suffice to

say that many a pure-minded boy have in a few month become utterly

corrupt, and his character, it may be, utterly ruin for ever.” he be

writing of the boy of one town; but his remark be equally, and even

more, applicable to such place as Grimsby and Hull and Yarmouth. here,

then, be the real evil. it be not that the boy be maltreat at sea to

any extent outside the proverbial rough usage of the marine life; it be

not that smack-owner--the majority of they certainly--do not feed and

clothe they well, nor that they exact unreasonable share of labour from

they; it be that, when ashore and during the evening, they wander

about, fall into bad company, acquire habit of intemperance, become

unspeakable nuisance to the police, to the inhabitant, and to their

own master, run away, and leave owner in the lurch and practically now

without redress; and so, in a large proportion of instance, end in

become untrustworthy man, worthless sailor, people whom nobody will

employ. smack-owner, as I have say, cannot be expect to look after

the moral of the lad; their hand be full of business, they come home

weary, and, even with the good will in the world, they must lack in

way it would take too much space to explain here the opportunity to

care for the boy as they be care for at a home. what be really want

be a home wherever there be fishing-apprentice, an institution

conduct with something of the self-sacrifice spirit that

characterize the Ramsgate Home; where the boy can be comfortably

house and tend at a small expense to their employer; where they may

be educate and help and reward for their merit as seafaring lad;

and any one truly concerned in the welfare of our mercantile marine, and

who hold that we should neglect no source from which we may derive the

force that keep our nation dominant upon the sea, will believe that the

State could make no wise disbursement than in help in the

establishment of such institution, and contribute to they until they

become self-support.









_GRAVESEND._





I never pass Gravesend without thinking of poor Mrs. Henry Fielding’s

dreadful toothache, and the trouble her husband and the surgeon, “the

well repute operator in Gravesend,” take to persuade the suffering lady

to keep the hollow tooth a little long. to what extent have the old

town change since the author of “Tom Jones” survey it from the deck

of the little old vessel that carry he to Lisbon to die there? much

should have happen in a hundred and thirty year; yet in one respect

Gravesend remain unaltered; it be still, so to speak, the same old

point of nautical departure; ship still “drop” down abreast of it, and

bring up to receive their passenger; and yet it remain the one spot of

english soil which, when leave astern, make you feel that the great

ocean be all before you, and that your voyage have commence indeed. but

be not human nature the same in all age? field’s description of

sit at dinner and be startle by the bowsprit of “a little ship

call a cod smack,” drive in through the cabin window, and his

account of the sea-blessing shower upon each other by the crew of

the two vessel, might stand for a picture of to-day’s river life. “it

be difficult,” he say, “I think, to assign a satisfactory reason why

sailor in general should, of all other, think themselves entirely

discharge from the common band of humanity, and should seem to glory

in the language and behaviour of savage.” his opinion of Jack as a

gentleman be not ill found. but what would he think now if live,

and with the memory in he of his uncouth sea-swab of a skipper (who, to

the delight of posterity, fall upon his knee at last and beg

fielding to forgive he), he should step on board the 4000-ton steamer

that lie abreast of Gravesend, with blue-peter at her masthead, on the

day I happen to find myself in that town?



not much imagination be need, I think, to extinguish the monster

fabric which day after day lie float motionless abreast of

Gravesend, and refurnish the broad and quiver stretch of water with

the marine phantom of olden time. the Indiaman of 500 ton be view

with astonishment at her prodigious dimension as she lie strain at

her hempen cable, the sunshine sparkle in the big window which

embellish her huge quarter-gallery, her stern tower out of the

water like a castle, a wondrous complication of head-board and massive

timber distinguish her bow, long streamer whip from every

masthead, and row of cannon bristling along her tall, weather-toss

side. you have little pink, and snow, and cutter of fifty ton

burden which have make part of a convoy from the West Indies, and have

outweathere the heavy Atlantic surge as bravely as any Cunard liner of

to-day do. here, too, be collier, “ship of great bulk,” Fielding

call they, though there be scarcely a skipper of an old boom-foresail

_Anna Maria_ or _John and Susan_ now afloat who would not hold they

capacious only as long-boat. to appreciate all that the present mean,

you must step back and then look ahead. only the other day I see a

Blackwall liner tow up the river. it be not so very long ago when

that ship would have be think a wonderfully large vessel. handsome

she be, with her paint port and frigate-like look, though her

main-royal mast be uncomfortably stay aft when I see she, and she

want a pretty stem-piece; but as to her size, she seem little more

than a toy as she swam past the line of huge tower iron hull. you

think of the scene of the river as Fielding survey it, then as you

remember it twenty year since, then as you see it now; and your wonder

be, what will the end be should the end ever arrive? what will be the

bulk and vastness of the fabric in the good time come?



“the new dock,” say a waterman to I, point across the river with a

finger like a roll of old parchment, “be to start from yonder p’int,

and end right away down there;” and the sweep of his finger seem to

embrace some league of the opposite low, flat, treeless, and

mud-colour shore. assuredly all that can be give will be want. our

marine giantess be multiply fast than they drown; and it seem

to I that there be something prophetic in my waterman’s finger when he

make the gesture of it to signify mile instead of acre. but many

change must take place and a long time elapse before Gravesend lose

its old distinctive tradition as a point of departure. think of the

thousand of eye which have grow dim as they watch the old town veer

away astern, and of the thousand of heart which have leapt in

transport as from mouth to mouth the cry have go round, “Gravesend be

in sight.” no other place--I be speak, of course, of vessel bind

Thames-wise--give one such a sense of home as this. Jack may have the

english coast in view pretty nearly the whole way from the Isle of Wight

as high as the South Foreland; he may bring up in the down, and have

Deal and Walmer close aboard, and hear the church bell ring, and see

the people walk on the beach; he may take his fill of Ramsgate and

Margate as he round the great headland; but somehow or other it be not

until Gravesend have hove in sight, and he see the shipping abreast of

it, and the river curve into Northfleet Hope, that Jack feel home be

reach at last; that the voyage be as good as over, and that in a few

hour the noble ship that have carry he in safety through storm and

calm, through sunshine and blackness, will be at rest, silent as the

grave--as though, after the long and fitful fever of the deep, she be

sleep well.



these be the gayer thought, for they come with the hurricane-chorus

that break from the forecastle of yonder ship as her crew get the

anchor, now that the first of the flood have come, and the tug alongside

be already to forge ahead and tauten the hawser. “oh, when we get to the

dockyard gate!” shout the poor fellow gleefully, with as much voice as

a voyage from San Francisco have leave in they; and you think that

to-night there will be some middling salt and tough yarn spin in more

than one grog-shop, whilst already Jack’s most unlovely Nan--as Charles

Dickens only too truthfully describe she--be overhaul her few

penn’orths of finery in anticipation of the treat which be to be get

out of a fund make up of £3 10s. a month.



but Gravesend appeal most from the other side of the picture--the

outward-bind side. I be favour with an immense illustration of this.

a big steamer, with a black-and-white funnel, lie abreast of the

Gravesend pier, with her deck literally choke with emigrant. she

should have sail the day before, I be tell; but the emigrant--mainly

foreigner--have rebel; declare they have be promise a steamer

belong to another company, and refuse to start in the vessel they

be pack aboard of. some one on the Gravesend pier tell I that a

thousand people have be put into she that morning. there be hardly

room for a pin along the bulwark. clustering masse of human head

blacken the rail, as though all the crow in Kent have swoop down

upon that great iron steamship, and be take their ease upon her

side. I have no excuse to board she, but I manage to gather a good idea

of her live freight by take a boat and pull round she. I have see

a very similar class of foreign emigrant in a north-country port, and

have make a short voyage in company with five or six hundred of they, but

that crowd do not impress I as this do. there be something very

pathetic and melancholy in the posture and look of this large

concourse of people, who overhang the water, and gaze, with little of

movement among they, at the shore on either hand. the thought of this

mass of human soul afloat on the deep with nothing between they and

eternity but a thin surface of iron, combine with the speculation as

to the future into which the mind be irresistibly impel; the new

land which await they; the long--perhaps everlaste--separation from

their mother country; the numberless interest they represent; and the

rapid growth of that amazing Western Empire, whose humanizing and

civilize progress be strangely illustrate by the embarkation of this

immense assembly--the freight of a single ship, too!--for its port,

contribute to make the picture of the _Holland_--for that be the name

of the steamer--a truly impressive and memorable one. it be a warm,

sunny afternoon; far down the Hope, trend north-wise athwart

Gravesend Reach, be the white height of Cliffe, sparkle like marble

in the brilliant radiance; the long stretch of water be crowd with

shipping, whose bunt and variously-colour side fill the eye with

colour; Gravesend lie in a heavy mass of group close down to the

water’s edge, with a lumber of huddle house to the right of the new

Falcon Hotel, here and there a window flash back the sunlight, and

the church bell ring a pleasant farewell to a peninsular and oriental

steamer, whose head be be cant towards the north shore by a tug

that she might have a clear road before her engine be set in motion;

whilst, some distance up the river, vessel which have pass Gravesend

twenty minute before be fade upon the blueish haze of smoke from

tall chimney and fog from the marsh, the spar of the Blackwall liner

loom huge and vague above the land which conceal her hull.



the very beauty of the picture furnish an element of melancholy to the

crowded steamship, and the row upon row of face which be all

steadily gaze landward. I watch the Peninsular and oriental steamer

get under way, and contrast she with the emigrant ship. the big

deck-house or saloon of the former, with the two funnel rear out of

it, give she, to my eye, a somewhat heavy look forward; but it be

something to remember to run the eye from she almost unpeopled

deck--nobody to be see but some man in uniform on the bridge, a Lascar

in a turban squatting in the after-awning, hold a little white flag

in his hand, and one or two figure in the forward part of the ship--to

the motionless black hull of the emigrant steamer, teem with life,

and the bulwark literally creep with face. it be a responsible

thing to carry mail, to be answerable for a mass of specie, and for the

life of a number of gentleman and lady; but think of stand on the

deck of a steamer on a dark night, and reflect that under your foot

lie sleep a thousand human being, not count your crew, and that

the very existence of this vast company of fellow-creature depend upon

your vigilance, judgment, skill as a seaman. I believe the sympathy and

wonder of any man who see that crowded vessel and give attention to the

sight, would have go to the captain--to the seaman who be to hold all

those life in his hand, so to speak. who would willingly accept such a

responsibility? and who, find man equal to the discharge of these

enormous trust, would not gladly lend a hand to smooth their path for

they by denounce and demand the removal of whatever unfairly

obstruct and harass they--the action of unjustly-constitute court,

the decision of empiric, and of people who could not tell the

difference between a gin-block and a dead-eye, the iniquity of the

modern ship-building yard, and the hundred small red-tape worry which

make the shipmaster’s life a burden to he ashore?



how much Gravesend be a point of arrival and departure I be remind as

I stand overhang the stone projection and look down on the

landing-step. from a large sailing-ship tow up the river, a

waterman’s boat shoot away and make for the Gravesend pier. in it be a

middle-aged man, bronze with the sun and wind of four month, and

dress in clothe which it scarcely need a tailor to guess be of an

antipodean cut. his luggage be heap about he in the bottom of the

boat. I watch he land, and follow he as he come up the step,

when a rush be make by a little group of people dress in mourning,

and in a breath a woman, toss up her black veil, be in his arm, and

sob on his shoulder. those sombre garment throw a shadow upon the

happiness of this meeting; but still, he have come back, he be well, and

by-and-by the dead, never to be forget, let we hope, would be bury

indeed, and the live heart reassert itself. the waterman seem to

know when that ship have leave her port on the other side of the world,

and so I find that this man have be four month in make his way to

England. and how much long have he be absent? but then think of the

glory of the green tree and fragrant beauty of our English May to

this traveller fresh from one hundred and twenty day of salt water!

figure the flavour he will find in a cut from a prime sirloin! the

sweetness of “soft tack”--ay, even such bread as be now bake--after the

bilious little bit of dough manufacture in the galley by the baker,

and send aft under the satirical title of “roll!”



Scarcely have the sunburnt man and his friend disappear, when there

come a little figure that I could not view without lively concern and

compassion. this be a small midshipman, resplendent in the new of

uniform. the button glitter on his tiny jacket, and the brand-new

badge on his cap shine like a freshly mint sovereign. there lie his

ship a short way down the stream--a good-look iron vessel, very long

and very narrow, without an inch of that “swell of the side” one love

to see, as I have take notice when she slew on her heel to the first

of the flood and give we a view of herself end on, with double

topgallant yard, skysail pole, and the capacity for an immense spread

of low cloth. the poor little chap take a long squint at his new

home, and then a peep at the lady alongside of he, who, from the strong

family likeness between they, I reckon at once to be his mamma. she

have be cry, her eye be red, but she look at her youngster with

a kind of quivering smile now, for it would clearly not do to capsize

his sensibility at this most trying point. he have insist upon go

to sea, no doubt, much against poor mamma’s will. he have fine notion of

the marine call, I dare say, all acquire by day and night of study

of nautical romance; and here he be ready to sail away, handsomely

brass bind, mamma red-eyed at his side, bravely fight with her

heart. hundred of man have go through this, and something betwixt a

laugh and a sigh will come from they when they think of this little

brass bounder and look back to their first voyage. what idea have the

young fellow form of the life? but, alas! what mariner have not allow

his boyhood to gull he in the same way? “there be,” say Dana, “a

witchery in the sea, its song and story, and in the mere sight of a

ship and the sailor’s dress, especially to a young mind, which have do

more to man navy and fill merchantman than all the pressgang in

Europe. I have know a young man with such a passion for the sea, that

the very creaking of a block stir his imagination so that he could

hardly keep his foot upon dry ground.” these sentence recur to I as

I watch the little midshipman. but for how many day be the spell of

the ocean’s witchery to lie upon he? probably, if they have head wind

down Channel, he would be sick of the life and longing to be ashore in a

warm bed, with his mother to tuck he up, and a good breakfast to go

downstairs to next morning, before they be abreast of the Start. “oh,

my golly!” say a negro whom I meet at Gravesend, sell flower,

“S’elp I, sah, as I stan’ here, I’d gib dis basket--yas, ah would--and

all de close horff my back, for a good blow-out of lobscouse!” but that

little middy will have to be a black man if he want to enjoy sea-fare

as my negro-friend do. a few day of dark and evil-look pork, and

salt beef out of which he might cut model of ship for his friend at

home, and “duff” make of copper-skimming, not to mention the being

route out in his watch below, and have to tumble up aloft in a night

blind with storm and rain, be pretty sure to disillusion he. but his

button be new, and his hope be young and fresh; there be no tarnish

of salt water on either as yet; so let he take his mother’s yearning,

passionate kiss, and bundle into the boat and be off. she could not bear

to see he row away, and the moment he go down the step she hurry

off; whilst he, to show what a man he be, squat himself in the stern

sheet, and pull out a short wooden pipe and light it. in a few

minute he be out in the stream. I watch he get alongside his ship,

trot up the gangway ladder, and vanish in a kind of twinkle of new brass

and gilt over the side.



it be these constant coming and going which give Gravesend its

interest and its memory. one hour it be a party of people newly

arrive from the bottom of the world; another it be a couple of drunken

fireman tumble into a boat, and shove off for some lump of a steamer

that lie abreast of the Obelisk or Denton Mill. but, in spite of the

heap of nautical condition which beset it, Gravesend cannot be call

wholly marine. it may be think fishy, but it certainly be not salt.

contrast it with Deal, which it resemble in its low street. the wind

may pipe never so merrily, but there be no shrewd briny pungency in the

shrill gust as they sweep round the corner. the boatman have a

fresh water look. their sou’westers and jersey cannot deceive the

practise eye. they can handle an oar capitally; but they have not the

toughen and bronze and Channel-toss look of the fellow whom you

encounter loll in blanket trouser over the ramsgate pier, or

argue in group at the entrance of the Margate jetty, or heighten

the picturesque appearance of the Deal and Folkestone shingle. yet I

cannot conceive of any place well calculate to delight a man of

maritime study and scene than Gravesend. you may linger all day on

the queer-look roof-in pier, with the old barge moor against it,

and never feel weary. hour after hour unfold the canvas of a

never-end panorama of shipping. picture after picture go by--the

great ocean steamship, the little ratche ketch, the sturdy old

collier, the white and shine yacht, the large and loftily rig ship,

the eager tug hiss through the trembling current, and all the life

and light and colour and wondrous transformation of the river take a

certain character of remoteness akin to unreality, as though what you

gaze at be nothing but a series of noble painting, indeed, from the

quietude that prevail about you; an atmosphere of lazy stillness break

by the muffle, rush sound of the current sweeping under the pier,

the dull voice of man converse outside the wooden structure, and

the strain noise of boat as the tide set the little craft chafing

one another’s side.









_a chat with a fisherman._





a few day after the dreadful gale that have wreck whole fleet of

smack belong to the eastern and north-eastern port, and drown

many hundred of fisherman, I be visit by a Hull smacksman, who come

to tell I that he have lose a son in one of the vessel which have go

down on the Dogger Bank during the storm, and to inform I of the misery

and destitution into which the widow and child of the poor drown

man be plunge. he tell I in a rough, plain, earnest way how his son

be to have be marry to a young girl on his return, and how the poor

lad have save up a few pound to purchase a little furniture for the

home, which she be prepare, when the news reach she that the smack

in which her sweetheart be have go down with all hand; how, in house

after house, down whole street, there be a constant sound of wail

and moaning, with misery and hunger indoor, amongst the weep woman

and the sob child; and, say my fisherman to I, though God know

he be a poor man, yet such be the suffering he have witness, so

unspeakably great be the calamity that have overtake the fishing

population of Hull--and of other port, but he speak of Hull because he

belong to it--that, have the thirty shilling he subscribe to the fund

for the relief of these widow and orphan been the last bit of money

he have in the world, he must have give it and take his chance for

himself.



the subject be a deeply interesting one to I, who have live among

fisherman, write about they, know their heroism well, their hardship,

the simple-heartedness of they. we get talk about the smacksman’s

life, his risk, of various feature connect with his calling; and, as

the subject be one that have be commend to the british public in an

appeal for charity for those whom the frightful storm bereave, I offer

no excuse for repeat in print some of the observation make by this

smacksman on his own vocation. his reference to what be know as the

“boxing system” enable I to lead off with my question. the term

boxing, I may say, be apply to the conveyance of fish in boat from

the smack to the steamer which bring the fish home. as the vessel

fill up with fish they transfer they to steamer, which, by relieve

they of their freight, enable they to remain for week on the fishing

ground.



“be it a fact,” I inquire, “that smacksman object to the boxing

system?”



“it be, sir,” be the reply.



“why?”



“because it’s dangerous to life, sir. it keep man work for a

considerable time in open boat in all kind of weather. it answer the

owner’s purpose; he share in the profit of carry the fish, and it

enable he to keep his vessel at sea as long as it be possible for she

to remain there; and by this mean the man be deprive of all home

comfort and of the management of their family.”



“what be the size of the boat employ in carry fish from the smack

to the steam cutter?”



“well, their length’ll be about 20 ft., breadth 6 ft., and depth 3 ft.”



“and these boat the man have to launch in heavy weather?”



“yes, often in weather that may be call heavy. the risk be increase

by the peculiar circumstance under which the man be place whilst

work at the boxing system; for you’ll hear again and again of their

shove the whole of a night’s catch into the boat at once, in order to

secure a quick despatch and obtain the early possible market.”



“how be the Dogger Bank relish as a fishing ground?”



“well,” he reply, “it pass by the name of ‘the Cemetery’ among we.

in the winter time, I don’t suppose there’s a more dangerous place in

the world. with strong wind from the N.E., veer to the N.W., there

come the heavy sea from the Atlantic--if you can call the ocean to the

norrards of the North Sea by that name--which strike the rise ground

of the bank and turn the water into a boiling caldron. it be there

where the smack go down. the sea just coil over and fairly break

upon ’em, smother ’em, smash in their deck, stamp ’em out as

you might grind a beetle out of sight with your heel.”



“be your smack supply with barometer? I mean by that, have they any

mean of know when to expect foul weather?”



“no, sir; they’re not generally supply. one firm own about twenty

sail of vessel, who always work on the single-boat system in winter,

provide their vessel with barometer. I should think they must be very

useful instrument,” say he, speak as though he have never be

shipmate with one; “and I may here add that none of those twenty

vessel allude to be lose. the majority of us smacksman have nothing

to tell the weather by except practical experience.”



“but couldn’t the admiral signal--couldn’t _he_, at least, be furnish

with a barometer?”



“no doubt,” he reply. “but smack get scatter, and it would be good

for each master to understand the weather for himself. the admiral be

more for rallying of we. he have his job cut out for he after a storm.

his general scheme be to fall in with a steam carrier, and then sail to

the ground from which he’s be drive by the gale, expect the rest

of the fleet to do likewise; but it often happen that many day pass

before they’re able to get together, and this bring heavy loss among

the fisherman, who, have no ice, be force to find the admiral before

they can start fishing afresh.”



“what difference be there in the mode of fish among the Hull,

Grimsby, Ramsgate, Penzance, and other smack?”



“vessel belong to Hull, Grimsby, Ramsgate, and Lowestoft use the

trawl net; but the Penzance boat be what be call ‘drifter,’ or

herring boat.”



“I ask that question,” say I, “in order to inquire what kind of

fishing--that be, which sort of voyage--be most in favour among

smacksman.”



“why, in winter time we like good the single-boat system--when a smack

go out and get what fish she can, and return. this system do not

require we to use small boat. it pay just as well as the other system,

and be less dangerous in other direction than that of do away with

‘boxing,’ as it lead to vessel scatter, and help in that manner to

lessen the risk of collision. we don’t object to the boxing system in

summer, but it oughtn’t to be practise in winter. that’s what we

think.”



“smack-owner manage to secure themselves, don’t they?”



“well, yes, by what’s term mutual insurance, which provide for total

loss and for damage to a certain amount apart from fishing gear. master

don’t much like these here insurance company. they’re too despotic.

I’ll tell you what they do, sir: they willn’t allow a master the right of

defend himself against any charge that’s bring against he before

they. why, they think nothing of suspend a man from act as master

for a couple of year, perhaps for nothing bad than an error of

judgment which the Board of Trade Commissioner would have be satisfy

to reprimand he for.”



“do smacksman make a provision for their family by any method of

insurance or club?”



“yes, sir,” he answer; “as a rule they do. there be a Fishermen’s

Widow and Orphan Society, which, for payment of one shilling a month,

pay a widow £20 or £25, accord to the time her husband have be a

member; and there be also a Friendly Protection Society, number at

Hull 700 member, which give sick pay for certain period and £12 at

death. both these institution do a great deal of good. many fisherman

also join the local friendly society.”



“but a large number, I suppose, do not subscribe, and it be the widow

and child of those who have be plunge into immediate destitution

by their husband’ death?”



“yes, sir. but it be not always possible to subscribe; there be too

many of we, and some go without work for week.”



“what be the average tonnage of the Hull and Grimsby smack?”



“about seventy ton.”



“what be your opinion of they as seaworthy vessel?”



“well, sir, the build and behaviour of they be first rate; but a great

many be ill find, and be in a bad state as concern leakage; and I

can assure you that among we fisherman there be a strong feeling that

there ought to be government inspection of fishing vessel by practical

man.”



“will you explain to I the meaning of share, and how they be

proportion?”



“it’s in this way,” say he: “the net proceed be divide into eight

share; the master take 1⅜ share, the mate 1⅛ share, and the owner 5½

share, out of which he have to pay three boy or casual hand, who

receive together on an average about £2 2s. a week, and he have also to

find his vessel’s outfit.”



“be it true that smacksman object to lifebelt?”



“no; they don’t object generally. some do, on the ground of their being

too cumbersome to work in. they ought to be wear in ‘box.’ there’s a

particular danger in that system which I forget to mention: it’s that of

collision, which be constantly happen owe to the man be

anxious to get their fish on board the steam cutter, to do which they

all sail to she as close as they can, with their boat in tow and two

hand in each boat.”



“and what other special danger be there,” say I, “connect with your

call?”



“well,” he reply, “answer that question, as concern the

single-boat system, which I’ve explain, I can but say that what the

smacksman have to contend with be just the ordinary peril of a

seaman’s life, such as ship heavy sea which wash we overboard, and

be drag into the sea whilst draw water, haul in the net, and

the like of that. but the boxing system add to these danger by the

risk of collision, the capsizing of boat, and the uselessness of the

casual hand, the good of they prefer to ship in vessel on the

single-boat system.”



“your casual hand, as you call they, touch the apprentice question.

what be your opinion of smack-boy’ home?”



“why, that they’re a great advantage to all fishing port and to the

lad themselves, if the home be properly manage.”



“can you say that smack-boy be ill-treat at sea?”



“no, I cann’t, sir. there be a few exception, but my experience be that

the boy be treat with uniform kindness.”



“to return to the question of loss of life,” say I, “amongst smacksman,

what proposal have you to offer to diminish it?”



“well, sir, if I have my way, I’d totally abolish the boxing system from

the end of September till the end of March. that alone would greatly

reduce the death-rate among fisherman; and I’d also have government

inspector to survey the vessel, and see that they be find, and

equip, and ballast, and so on.”



“and now,” I ask, refer to the vessel which trade among the

smack in spirit and tobacco, “what can you tell I about the system

call ‘cooper’?”



“why,” he answer, warm up, “my opinion of ‘cooper’ be that step

ought to be take to put a stop entirely to such degrading traffic. if

it could be put an end to, it would be a blessing to all

concern--particularly to the man. it ’ud make your hair stand on end

to hear of some of the awful thing I and score besides have

witness--many of our man have, in their drunken fury, jump

overboard, and in many instance be drown, and in hundred of case

‘cooper’ have be the mean of cause the man at sea to fall out and

fight almost to death’s door. I’ll explain how it’s carry on. the

trafficking craft be in most case an old vessel that have be condemn

in England and sell to some foreigner for the purpose of carry on

this trade--some one hailing from Hamburg, Bremerhaven, Antwerp, or some

port along the Dutch, german, or belgian coast. this man--or call it

these people--get their tobacco, cigar, liquor, and the various other

article they deal in, in large quantity from agent in the different

port they visit, at a very low price. the article sell be of a very

inferior quality--especially the drink, which be chiefly rum and gin of

a very common and fiery nature. the price charge, as a rule, be--for

shag tobacco, 1_s._ 6_d._ per lb.; cavendish, 2_s._ per lb.; cigar,

from 6_s._ to 12_s._ per box. Gin and rum be sell at 1_s._ 6_d._ per

bottle; brandy, 2_s._ the smacksman generally arrange to take a little

money to sea with they for the purpose of buy tobacco, to save pay

4_s._ per pound for it at home. in my opinion, this traffic would

receive a blow if fisherman be allow to get their tobacco out of the

bond store.”



this, it will be see, coincide with the report of the Sea-Fishing

Trade Committee, who call attention in strong term to the evil of

“cooper.” not only, be it state, do these boat lead to the

bartering of ship’ store and gear for drink, “but they bring about

the demoralization of the hand and even of the skipper serve on

board smack, and directly lead to risk and loss of life. we have it in

evidence that they be float grog-shop of the bad description, and

that they be under no control whatever.”



there be little more that I could think of to ask my intelligent

friend. in reply to my inquiry as to the value of smack at various

port, he say the question be difficult to answer, “as there’s a vast

deal of difference among the smack belong to the port, and likewise

in the damage do ’em, for its damage that count heavily in the

support of they. the cost of a new smack at Hull and Grimsby, with all

the modern appliance, will be about £1500; the average worth of smack

at those port be about £900, and the cost of their fishing-gear about

£70.”



“and a Hull smack’s earning?”



“between £800 and £900 a year--I mean the gross earning.”



“smack be be constantly run down by vessel. do they want well

light? what be the reason of these frequent disaster?”



“as a rule,” he answer, “smack carry very good light; but there be

room for improvement. I’m one of many who strongly advise that smack

should carry more powerful light than they now use. if smack be very

often rundown--and true enough that be--it’s mainly because of the bad

look-out that’s keep aboard vessel navigate the North Sea. there be

captain who don’t respect our life. they see we lie-to our net,

they know we cann’t get out of the road; but on they come, never shift

their helm, and if they pass by without strike we, and we call to ’em

to know where they’re come, all the answer we get consist of brutal

curse.”



apparently, then--and I say it not alone on the evidence of this man,

but on the assurance of many other engage in the fishing trade--the

measure that be require to diminish the loss of life at sea among the

valuable class of man employ in the North Sea fishery be the

suppression of the boxing system during the winter month. and another

most important step would be the supervision of smack by qualified

inspector appoint by the Board of Trade. at present I do not know of

any law to prevent an owner from send, or to punish an owner for

despatching, to sea the crazy old smack that can be keep alive by

long and frequent spell at the pump. it be certainly most anomalous

that close attention should be give to the loading, construction, and

equipment of ship belong to one section of the english marine,

whilst another section that find occupation for many thousand of man

and boy be utterly disregard by the State in all thing save the

exhibition of light.









_a FOURPENNY VOYAGE._





Dr. Johnson once say that the full tide of human life be to be see at

Charing Cross. the full tide of human commerce begin a few bridge

lower down. a man should count it a real privilege that, for the modest

sum of fourpence, he be able to survey such an illustration of the

wealth and power of this Empire as may enable he to form a very clear

and true conception of the aggregate commerce and industry of the United

Kingdom. to embark at London Bridge on board a fourpenny steamboat,

bind to Woolwich, be, in my humble judgment, to be convey through the

most wonderful series of transformation scene that the world have to

offer. what be comparable to that passage? no one who have enter the

Sidney Heads but will remember the astonishment and delight inspire by

the mile of blue water stud with fairy island, the jasper-like

reflection of cloud in the glass-clear depth, the rich tropical

vegetation of the shore, the gleam spar of shipping lift their

delicate tracery into the darkly-pure blue. passage of strange and

shine beauty recur like haunt memory of fragment of eastern

story to those who have thread the water of the Nile or the hoogly;

and recollection of the Peiho be make delightfully picturesque and

impressive by vision of uncouth junk moor in the rush stream, by

glimpse of distant temple, by remembrance of soft wind aromatic with

spice.



but the Thames! its scenery be the work of human hand. an atmosphere of

yellow light give magnitude and a vagueness of outline to the league

of water-side structure, and an obscurity to the horizon in which the

monument of industry fade with a simulation of immensity that cheat

the sense into a belief of immeasurable remoteness. the great ship be

in the dock far down the river; but though the steamer which lie in

tier upon tier in the Pool, and far beyond the limit of that reach,

be for the most part but of middle size, yet the mind lose all sense

of their individual dimension in the overwhelming impression produce

by their collective tonnage. one journey through this magnificent

stretch of stream be a large education. the flag of a score of

nationality colour the sombre heaven with their green and blue and

yellow and white fold. all the country in the world appear to pass in

a kind of review as the ear catch the hundred tongue, and the eye the

hundred face, and the nostril the hundred scent waft from the hold

of ship whose greyish spar seem yet to retain the heat of the

equatorial sun, and whose side be fret with the wash of the surge

of the great ocean.



I once take fourpennyworth of travel aboard a Woolwich steamer, for the

sake of renew some old recollection. I will not say that a well

kind of steamer would not have make the voyage more comfortable. the

dexterous and watchful skipper, who stand upon the bridge carry his

freight of human life through the intricacy of blunder barge and

the bewilderment of swinge ship and capricious tug, by light motion

of his arm and soft aside to the boy, who furnish they with

ear-pierce echo, seem to I to deserve a stouter ship. the

funnel-casing have much the appearance of an aged saucepan whose bottom

have be burn to the thinness of a sailor’s shirt. I think to myself,

“suppose we should tip some of these old barge our stem by mistake?

assuredly we should crumple up forward like a sponge-cake; and how

should we manage to save our life?”



I look everywhere, but there be not so much as an old cork to pitch

overboard in case of accident. even the seat, rotten as the hinge

be, be not likely to come away in a hurry. but there be too much to

be see to permit I to bother over the crazy, quivering, admirably

handle, and most dangerous old machine that be run we from pier to

pier against a strong flood tide. once clear of London Bridge we be in

a complete lane form by moored or anchored steamer. they be very

much alike--little beauty amongst they; some of they well-deck, with

their gangway out, show the covering-board close to the water, and

make the structure, with their tall afterdeck and topgallant

forecastle, look as if they be in course of be build, instead of

newly arrive from voyage long and short. but all such characteristic

be lose in the thought of the immense mass of tonnage here submit.

where do it end? where would the last of these steamer be lie? to

right and leave they stretch, with lighter alongside, steam winch

rattle, the vapour of donkey engine blow out in volume, some in

semi-discharged state, with a heavy list to port or starboard, with

frequent alternation of the flag of Denmark, Sweden, France, the

Netherlands--I know not what other bunting--amid which our own red

ensign count as twenty to one.



the whole commerce of the world seem to be here, but in truth the

Thames’ show of it be only just begin. on either hand, tremble in the

distance, in the vacant place between the building, could be catch

the hairlike outline of the mast and rigging of ship, with their

house-flag twinkle in tiny spot of colour; and still as the fleet

of steamer hold we in their interminable lane, do there heave up out

of the remote sky more line and thread and taper tremulous height

of shipping. but the wealth of industry and the prodigious achievement

of british commerce be not more noticeable in the vast assemblage of

steam and sailing vessel than in such minute particular as the little

pant screw-tug with a chain of deeply-laden coal barge in her wake,

every ebony mound embellish with a recumbent figure in shirt-sleeve,

a sooty pipe in his mouth, and his face to the sky. the familiar Thames

wherry be also here to add its touch of interest to the wonderful

scene--the old waterman rest on his oar, and squint over his

shoulder at the pass tug, in whose tumble, as she go by, the little

boat begin to flounder, while the tall hat of the rower shorten and

enlarge with the reeling of the wherry like an optical illusion.



as the line of steamer dwindle the river widen; and when we come to

the bend of a long reach, it open into a metal-colour surface of

gleam water tremble with the speeding of its own rushing, though it

retain polish enough to serve as a mirror, and to hold under each

vessel the dark, invert shadow of a phantom ship. here we come across

a long, low, iron four-masted craft, with paint port. even a sailor

who have never be shipmate with more than three mast at a time might

gaze with something of astonishment at the complex tracery that crowd

the air over that immensely long and narrow hull, and wonder how long

it would take a man to find out where all those rope lead. it be not

enough that there be four mast; there must be double topgallant yard

too, make eight set of brace where in former time three be find

enough. but these be progressive day in ship-building. by-and-by we

shall have five-maste full-rig sailing ship, no doubt, with new

Board of Trade rule for the examination of candidate in

square-rigging. let we hope that there will be also rule for the proper

manning of such craft; for it strike I, as I look at that big

four-masted ship, that if her complement be assess on the basis of her

tonnage, without reference to the number of cloth she spread, it must

go desperately hard with the cook and the butcher’s mate in a gale of

wind.



Father Thames, once a god, might more fitly be term a goddess, under

the title of Commerce; for this assuredly be the preside spirit. it

quicken with life the small and craziest structure by the

water-side; the very ebb and flow of the noble stream seem obedient to

its law, and its shadow be in the air and upon the face of the water.

I cannot imagine any one of those skipper of the Woolwich and Greenwich

steamboat, who pass up and down the river some score of time in the

course of a week, so intimately acquaint with the wharf and

warehouse and the uncountable feature of industry which crowd the bank

for mile and mile as not to behold something new, something he have

never take close notice of before, every time he direct his gaze with

attention to the shore on either hand. the billy-boy and barges

squattere like mudbank hard against the slimy pile; the giant crane

poise ton’ weight of burden in the air; the vast warehouse, with the

long and powerful steamship snug securely alongside they; the

endless procession of wharfage teem with hurrying figure full of

business--these and countless other feature of the scene furnish the

apparently limitless line of steamer and other craft with such a

background as complete the deep and stir significance of their

multifarious aspect. it be a vast picture of motion--of great vessel

come, of great vessel go, of lighter swirl up swiftly with the

tide broadside on, of tug speed in quest of towage job, of

passenger steamer drive through the steel-colour current with a

glancing of silver at their keen stem and a whirl of snow sluicing in a

broad torrent from under their counter. now it be a big ocean

steamship, of some three or four thousand ton, leisurely make for

Gravesend, as trim as a man-of-war to the eye, her side and funnel

spotless, her scuttle twinkle like diamond in her black length as

they catch the sparkle of the pass water; whilst in vivid contrast

there come tow past she a full-rig ship fresh from some

antipodean port, her brave hull cover with the scar of the conflict

she have wage with distant sea, her canvas carelessly roll up on the

yard, her rig slack, and a crowd of man forward and aft engage in

point out one to another the familiar scene ashore.



ay, pathos be not want even amid so prosaic a scene of commerce as

the reach of our noble river exhibit. you find it to a degree

proportion to your power of perception and realization in some such

an object, for instance, as that ship yonder, newly warp out from one

of the dock and all ready to begin her voyage. the hearty shout which

rise from her deck, the active little figure aloft, the bustle and

business in she, cannot impair the pregnant suggestiveness of she

leave-taking. you think of the people aboard who have say “good-bye”

to their friend, perhaps for ever. poor Jack, sit astride on the

fore-topgallant yardarm, catch hold of the lift, whilst he turn his

head in the direction of where he reckon Stepney or Poplar lie, and,

as he think of his wife or sweetheart and the perplexity of the new

allotment note, he discharge a stream of tobacco juice into the air,

and, with a melancholy countenance, wipe his mouth with the back of his

hand and go on with his job. there may be plenty of bustle and loud

call, but there be bind to be a share of sorrow too. it be not long

since the skipper take his wife to his heart, and his head be full of

she and the youngster as he pace the quarter-deck, sometimes pause

to peep over the side at the cluster of boat round the gangway ladder,

and sometimes singe out to the mate, who have his hand full forward.

indeed, it be impossible to look at an outward-bind ship without

sympathy and a kind of respect that come near to be reverence in

some mind. what will be her fortune? you think. she hold herself

bravely on the bosom of the calm river; the current wrinkle itself

sharply against her solid bow, and break away along her side in a

cadence like the tinkling of bell. who can doubt that tear be be

shed in her darksome interior? it be hard to leave the old home. the

glimpse of the church spire through the open scuttle bring up memory

which tighten the throat. when shall the next meeting be? and when time

bring it about, will not absent face and a change in the spirit of old

association make it sad than this go be? pray God that no harm

befall the stout ship! as you sweep past she your hearty hope be that

prosperous wind may attend she, and that in the new country fortune and

happiness await those whose sad eye dwell fixedly on the land that will

be far astern of they before the sun have thrice sink beyond the deep.



it may be that thought of this kind be suggest more by sailing than

by steam ship, because the existence of the propeller do to a large

extent mitigate the bitterness of the contemplation of distance. but let

no in-shore dweller flatter himself that the sailing vessel be very

nearly extinct. she may have one leg in the grave, but the other seem

to I still to possess an astonishing amount of animation. the hull of

the vessel in the dock on the Blackwall side of the river be not, for

the most past, visible from the water; but, unhappily for steamer,

there be not the least difficulty in telling, by the look of spar

bristle out of a hide dock, which be steamship there and which be

sailing vessel. some of these day, perhaps, when the right kind of

moral shall have be draw from broken propeller shaft and twisted

rudder-head, the difficulty of distinguish between the rig of a

sailing ship and the rig of a steamer may prove very much more

considerable than it now be; but, as this matter be at present order,

the tower mast, the immensely square yard, should leave even a

ploughman in no doubt as to the character of the vessel to which they

belong.



the number of sailing ship which crowd the dock on either side the

river must prove a real surprise to people who believe that it be all

steam nowadays. let ancient mariner be console by this assurance:

there be plenty of steam indeed, but there be a deal of canvas too, so

that all Jack’s work do not lie in the bunker yet, and there must

still be a large demand for seamanship of the old sort.



I be not sure that the wonder of the river do not owe quite as much to

the sailing ship as the steamer. the tall spar, the magnificent

spread of yard, the black line of shroud, the beautiful tracery of

intersect run gear, add to the shapely hull which support

these tower fabric of hemp and steel and wood, make a most noble and

impressive sight, and give, so to speak, a final touch to the teem,

opulent, commercial inspiration of the great river. low and low yet

down the grand old stream the spirit of enterprise be settle, and the

day be not far distant when the project dockyard at Tilbury will

veritably transform the quaint old town of Gravesend into the sea-gate

of London. it be almost startling to contemplate that time. one think

of Gravesend now as a mere break in the departure from the Thames. will

the chain of dock end at Tilbury? at Gravesend, apparently, they be

think otherwise! and reckon--somewhat against their own

hope--that if the Tilbury Docks people play at leapfrog with the Albert

Dock proprietor, the latter company will repay the compliment and land

themselves some distance lower down yet. the limit of the Port of

London, however, will, I believe, be reach by within a quarter of a

mile by the promoter of the Tilbury Dock undertaking,[D] so that one

cannot say in this case that there be room enough for all.

unquestionably the dock which be near the sea will be the dock

well like; and owner will profit at the expense of tug-master and

pilot.



meanwhile Gravesend may be compliment on its prospect. but what do

the waterman think? they be loud just now in their complaint of the

steam ferry. they say that they be not allow to board the ocean

steamer, even to put Gravesend passenger ashore. everybody must go to

tilbury first. how much of their vocation will be leave when the new

dock be open? but assuredly if some old interest vanish, many new

interest will start into life under the magic wand of the harlequin

Progress. one may look for a complete transformation of the low, flat,

treeless shore of Tilbury Ness and an ever-increase clustering of

industry along the bank of those reach whose skirt now mainly

consist of mud. our fourpenny voyage will have to be extend if we be

to compass all the wonder of our river below bridge. the New Zealander

who be to muse over the ruin of St. Paul’s may come as soon as he

like, only it be quite certain that his meditation will not be excite

by any spectacle of decay. life and industry be never more active on

the Thames than now--enterprise never more bold, speculation never more

prophetic. the time be not remote when Gravesend, which I may say for

century have be think of as a port of call, will be connect with

London by line of edifice and pier and wharf, as Blackwall be

connect, and future passenger by the little Thames steamboat--which,

it be to be earnestly hope, in the good time come will be

considerably more river-worthy than they now appear to be--will be

convey past a continuous panorama of commercial life and marine

interest to limit which will make Gravesend and the opposite shore the

actual sea-gate of the Port of London; in other word, the entrance to a

scene of civilization comparable to nothing that we can imagine even by

the building up of fancy from the wondrous fact at present submit to

any man bold enough to adventure upon a fourpenny voyage down the

Thames.









_POOR JACK._





I climb the steep hill that run from the Belvedere railway-station,

pause now and again for breath and to glance at the summer beauty of

the distant green land through which the river toil, like a stream of

quicksilver sluggishly roll, and presently, pass through a

gateway, find myself in a fine park-like stretch of ground, shade by

a multitude of tall far-branch tree, in the midst of which, and upon

the high point of the billowy soil, stand a spacious and exceedingly

handsome mansion. there be circular seat affix to many of the

tree, and upon they I notice several bent and aged figure lean

their breast upon stout walking-stick, and hold themselves in very

quiet posture. here and there, walk to and fro near the house or

upon the grass under the tree, be similar figure, all of they bow

by old age, though some of they pace the turf with a certain nimbleness

of tread. they be dress in pilot-cloth trouser and sleeve

waistcoat, with brass button, and ancient as these man be, yet it

be wonderful to observe, even where decrepitude be at its height, how

the old sea-swing and lurching gait of the sailor live in their

hobbling and determine their calling, as though the word “seaman” have

be brand upon every man’s forehead. I stand look at they, and at

the house and at the great tree, beyond which the distant prospect be

shine under the high sun, for many minute before advance. the sense

of repose convey to I by the shadow of the tree, the restful shape

of cattle upon the slope beyond the mansion, the motionless posture of

the old man seat, and the movement of the few figure who be

walk, cannot be express in word. I listen. there be no note of

human life in the air; no sound break the fragrant summer stillness but

the piping of bird in the tree, the humming of bee and fly, the

silken rustling of leave. the landscape be like a paint picture,

save where here and there, upon the far-off shine silver of the river,

a vessel slowly glide break the still scene with a fugitive interest.

I walk to the house and enter the spacious hall, and as I do so, a

single stroke on a bell to denote that it be half an hour after noon

resound through the building. a number of ancient man hang about this

entrance, and I examine they curiously, for of all the transformation

which old age work in the human countenance I never behold strange

example than be submit by many of these venerable seaman. let I

own to a feeling of positive awe in my inspection, for there be no face

but that time have invest it with a kind of sanctity. “how old be you,

my man?” I say to one of they. he turn his lustreless eye upon I

and bent his ear to my mouth. I repeat the question, and he answer

that he be ninety-three. year have so honeycomb his face that such

likeness of humanity as there be in it appeal to the eye rather as a

fantasy than as a real thing. a sailor be usually an old man at fifty,

thank to exposure, to hardship, and to the food he have to live on. many

of these man have use the sea for above half a century; some of they

be draw near to a hundred year of age; little wonder, therefore,

that they should be mere dim and feeble vestige of creation, and that

vitality in conformation so decayed should excite the awe and reverence

of those who explore the vague and crumbling feature, and behold the

immortal spirit struggle amid lineament which have the formlessness

of the face of a statue dig from the sand which entomb an ancient city.

I turn my eye from these old man to the hall in which I stand. pretty

column of malachite support the roof; woodwork and ceiling be

lavishly decorate; marine hint helpful to the prejudice of the

decay mariner be not want in the shape of model of full-rig

ship--man-of-war and East Indiamen of the olden time; through the door

I could see the green grass slope away into a spacious lawn; and the

warm air, full of sunshine, gush in sweet with the smell of clover and

wild flower.



in a few minute I be join by the house-governor, himself a skipper,

and fresh from the command of a sailing-ship-a genial, hearty gentleman,

and the fit person in the world for the command of such a

quarter-deck as this.



“the old man will be go to dinner at one o’clock,” he say; would I

like to see they at their meal? I answer “yes;” so we stand in the

door of a long, handsome room, fit with table and bench, and

watch the aged seaman come in one by one, hobble on their stick,

many of they talk to themselves.



“have you any shipmaster among these man?” I inquire. “several,”

answer the house-governor; and he instantly call out a name. an old

man approach we slowly; he be bald, with a very finely-shape head

and a long grey beard, and stand deferentially before we, his hand

clasp, wait to be address.



“this man have command of vessel for many year,” say the

house-governor.



I look at the poor old creature, and receive one of the gentle,

sad smile I ever see on a man’s face. I ask he how it be that

he come to need the charity of this institution in his old age.



“I be in the General Steam Navigation Company’s service, sir, for many

year, and have charge of vessel run to Boulogne. but my memory

begin to fail I; I be attack with dizziness, and have to give up. I

have save some money, and take a little hotel at Boulogne, on the Quay.

I could not make it answer, and, be ruin and an old man, sir, I have

to come here.”



he break down at this, his eye fill with tear, and he turn his

back upon I. I wait a little, and then, take his arm, I ask he

if he be happy in this house. yes, he say, he be quite happy.



“you may talk to I without fear,” I continue; “I be here to learn the

truth and to speak it. do they feed you well?”



“very well, sir.”



“have you no complaint to make?”



“none, sir.”



“you think this institution a good and honest charity?”



“God know what we should do without it,” he exclaim, look round at

the old man who be take their seat at the dinner-table. here the

house-governor bring up some other aged man, whom he introduce as

shipmaster. one of they be a North Shields captain, eighty year of

age; he support himself on two stick, be a little, white-face,

ancient creature, with strange silver hair, and he speak with a wistful

expression of countenance. he have be seize with paralysis by “farle

doon” the main hatch of his vessel. he tell I in his rich, plaintive,

north-country brogue, how the doctor have measure his leg and thigh with

a tape--for some purpose I could not clearly understand--and how the

accident have fling he upon the world, a beggar, and force he to take

a refuge in this institution. be he happy? ay, it be a man’s own fault

if he ben’t happy here. he be grateful to God for the care take of

he. at eighty a man be “na’ langer a laddie,” and with a bright old

laugh he hobble hungrily towards one of the dinner-table.



in a few moment two bell be strike, signify one o’clock, and all

hand be seat, I follow the house-governor to the bottom of the

room to have a look at the table before the old man fall-to. the dinner

consist of salt fish, butter, potato, and plain suet pudding.



“this be Tuesday’s fare,” say the house-governor. “on sunday they get

boil beef, potato, and plum pudding; on Mondays, vegetable soup,

boil mutton, and vegetable at discretion; on Tuesdays, what you see;

on wednesday, soup, boil beef, and potato; on Thursdays, roast

mutton, vegetable, and bread and cheese; on Fridays, salt pork, pea

soup, and calavance; and on Saturdays, soup and boulli--not soap and

bullion, as Jack say, one onion to a gallon of water--but a very good

preserve soup, with potato or rice and bread-and-cheese. taste this

fish.”



I do so, and find it excellent; so, likewise, be the suet pudding.

the potato be new. the beer be the only doubtful feature of the

repast; it be thin, insipid, and flat. I make haste to taste and

approve, for I could see that the old fellow be very hungry. the

governor leave I, and go to the top of the room, where, in a loud and

impressive voice, he say grace, bid the ancient mariner be

thankful for what they be about to receive; they all half rise, and in

one feeble, rustle old pipe, sing out “amen,” and then, like

schoolboy, make snatch at the dish, and in a minute be eat

with avidity. it warm my heart to see they. it make I feel that there

must yet be plenty of goodness leave in this world, when--through the

benevolence of stranger and their large-hearted concern for poor

Jack--ninety-three old, very old seaman, totter on the verge of the

grave, so poor and so destitute, so feeble and so friendless that but

for the benevolence of those whom Providence have bring to their

succour, they must have miserably starve and die, be clothe, and

feed, and shelter, and tenderly watch over. I know not that I have

ever be so moved as I be in my passage through that dining-room. it

be not only the pathos that lie in the helplessness of old age; I

could not but think of the great compass of time these man’s experience

embrace, of the change they have witness, of the sorrow and

struggle which have make up the sum of their long life, and how eighty

and ninety year of privation, endurance, and such pleasure as sailor

take, and such ambition as sailor have, have end in these bow and

toothless shape, clutch at their plain repast with child-like

selfishness, indifferent as death itself to the great machine of life

that be whir with its thousand interest outside the silent sphere

of their present existence, and dependent for the bread their trembling

hand raise to their poor old mouth upon the bounty of those who love

the noble profession of the sea, and who will not let the old and

bruised and wear-out seaman want for such help as they can send he.

here and there be man too infirm to feed themselves; and I take notice

how thoughtfully their aged messmate prepare their meal for they. some

of those thus occupy be more aged than the man they assist.



“bless your honour, he’s but a child to _I_,” say one of they, in

answer to my question; “he’s but three and seventy, and I shall be

eighty-nine come next September.”



one pitiful sight deeply affect I. it be an old man stone deaf and

stone blind. how be the helplessness in his face to be convey?



“he’s lose his appetite fast,” say a seaman of about eighty who sit

near he. “his sense be all lock up. Ye never hear he speak.”



there be sad sight even than this; but I dare not trust myself to

write of they.



I follow the house-governor out of the dining-room into a large

apartment, well store with book, magazine, etc., the gift of friend

of the charity. this I be tell be the reading-room. it look on to

the green ground, and be a most cheerful and delightful chamber.

far on be another room furnish with bagatelle board and side

table for cribbage, etc. there be a particular cleanness and neatness

everywhere visible, and I ask who do the work of the house. the

house-governor answer, “the inmate. the more active among they be

put to washing down and dust at ten o’clock, and they finish at

twelve. this be all the work require of they. throughout the rest of

the day they have nothing to do but to lounge about the ground and

amuse themselves as they please in the bagatelle or read room, or in

the smoking-room, which be a large apartment in the basement.” Mounting

the wide stone staircase, and admire as I go the singularly handsome

and lavishly-embellish interior of the very fine building, I find

myself on a floor devote to the sleeping-room. these consist of row

of bulkhead partition off little cabin, each with a door and a

number, and furnish with a comfortable bed, and some of they be

movingly decorate by photograph of a mother, a sister, a child, with

humble memorial save from the wreck of the past; such relic of the

old home as a few china chimneypiece ornament, a coloured picture, and

the like, with here and there a sea-chest, though, as a rule, these

little cabin, as they be call, be conspicuously empty of all

suggestion of marine life. now and again the opening of a door would

disclose an old man seat on his bed, darn a sock or mend a

shirt. it might have be that they be use to the visit of

stranger; but I could not help observe in all these old seaman an

utter indifference to our presence and inspection, a look of deep

abstraction, as if their mind be league astern of they or far ahead,

and existence be an obligation with which they have no sympathy, and of

which they never take notice unless their attention be compel to it.



“here,” say the governor, take I into a room in which three or four

old man be assemble--for dinner have be finish some time, and the

seaman have quit the tables--“is a veteran who have teach himself how

to write. show we your copy-book, my man,” say he, give he his name.



the old fellow produce his book with a great air of pride, and I be

strike by the excellence of the writing.



“be this all your own do?” I ask.



“ay, sir, every stroke. it’s be a bit of a job; for, you see, when a

man’s near eighty ye cann’t say that his brain’s like a young ’un’s.”



“this would shame many a youngster, nevertheless,” say I.



“I’d be proud if I could read it, though,” he exclaim, with the

anxious and yet gentle expression that seem a characteristic of the

face in this institution.



“ah, I see,” say I. “you can copy, but cannot read what you copy. never

mind! that will come too, presently.”



“I’m afeard not,” say he, shake his head. “Writin’s one thing,

readin’s another. I have learn to write, but dunno as ever I shall be

able to read it.”



the governor, with an encouraging smile, tell he to persevere, and then

lead the way to one of the sick ward, where I find a very aged man in

bed, and two other seat at a table.



“that poor old fellow,” say he, point to the bed, “beg to be

allow to attend the funeral of a man who die in the institution a

short time since; he be so much affected that he be strike with

paralysis, and have to be carry back here. he be for year a

shipmaster, have command of several fine ship, and be a man of excellent

education. he have be in this institution some year.” and then,

address he, “well, and how do you feel yourself now?”



“Mending, sir, mending,” answer the old man. “it’s death to I to be

lie here. why, for seventy-nine year I never have a day’s illness,

never take a ha’porth of physic.”



“you must have patience,” say the governor; “you’ll be up and do

presently.”



“ay, the power of forereaching be not take out of I yet,” he answer,

break into a laugh, the heartiness of which somehow pain I more

to hear than have he burst into sob.



there be more “cabin” upstairs, and in one of they we find an old

Irishman stand, lose in thought, look out of the window. I

address he, and he answer I in a rich brogue. I never remember

meet a more win old face, nor be win by a voice more cordial

and pleasant to hear. he tell I he have be in the _Kent_, East

Indiaman, when she be burn. this be so long ago as 1825, and he be

then a hearty, able-bodied man. it be like turn back the page of

the history of England to hear he talk of that famous and dreadful

disaster.



“there’s another man in the institution who be along with I in the

_Kent_,” say he.



I think of the description give of the _Kent_ by the master of the

_caroline_ as I look at this ancient man. “her appearance be that of

an immense cauldron or cage of buoyant basketwork, form of the charred

and blacken rib, naked, and strip of every plank, encircle an

uninterrupted mass of flame.” again and again have I read the story of

that terrible fire at sea, think of it always as something

deep-bury in history, and infinitely remote; and now here be a man

who have be an actor in it, talk of it as if it have be but of

yesterday, quaver out his “say I’s” and “say he’s,” and eager to

let I know that if he like he could tell I something about the

behaviour of certain responsible person on board that would not redound

to their credit. it be pantaloon with harlequin’s wand in his hand; the

fade old picture be touch, and become a live thing, the sea

roll, the ship burn, the terror and anguish of nearly sixty year

since grow quick again under the magic of this ancient man’s memory,

and in the presence of a live witness of that long-decay night of

horror.



of such a charity as this of the Royal Alfred Aged Merchant Seamen’s

institution how can any man who honour the english sailor and value

his call hope to speak in such term of praise as shall not seem

hyperbolical? not for one instant will I say that as a charity it be

superior to other which deal with the sick, with the destitute, with

the infirm, with little child. “there be misery enough in every

corner of the world as well as within our convent,” Sterne’s monk be

make to imply by his cordial wave of the hand. but I do claim for this

institution the possession of a peculiar element of pathos such as no

man who have not behold the aged, the stricken, the helpless, the

break-down man congregate within its wall can form any idea of. as

you survey they their past arise; you think of the black and stormy

night, the frost and snow, the famine and the shipwreck--all the peril

which sailor encounter in their quest or carriage of that which make

we great and prosperous as a nation; and then reflection on the dire

ending which must have befall these tempest-beat, time-laden man but

for the charity that provide they with a refuge break in upon you, and

you feel that no word of praise can be too high for such an

institution, and that no money dedicate by generous heart to the

alleviation of human suffering can be well direct than to the

exchequer of this aged seaman’s home. ninety-three old sailor be at

present lodge in the institution. the house be big enough to

accommodate two hundred, but the fund of the charity be already

stretch to their last limit, and many an old and break-down seaman

whom this home would otherwise receive, and whose closing day would be

render happy by all that tender ministration, by all that pious

kindness can effect, must die in the cold and cheerless silence of the

Union unless the charity that be prayerfully entreat for he be

give.









_on the GOODWINS_.





on a fine, calm day from the height of the cliff betwixt Ramsgate and

Broadstairs you may spy at low-water time a yellow vein, like a thin

winding of pale gold, a hand’s breath this side of the horizon--the

famous and fatal Goodwin Sands. I suppose there be no shoal in the whole

world that a man whose sympathy be with sailor can view with more

interest. start from the North Sand Head, which be almost abreast of

Ramsgate, and look east, the eye follow the south-westerly sweep of

the Goodwins until the Downs be embrace with all their dim tracery of

spar and rig and faint sinuous line of steamer’ smoke beyond,

whilst the giant South Foreland acclivity stare down upon the lightship

abreast of St. Margaret’s Bay, mark the extreme limit in the south

and west of the deadly stretch of sand upon the face of the globe.



“who can view the Goodwins without think of the treasure which lie

bury in their heart, of the hundred of ship which have go to

piece upon they, of the thousand of human corpse which have float

out of their flash surf to be strand upon some distant beach, or to

drift, maybe for day, upon the bosom of the tide, look up with

blind face to heaven through the green transparent lid of their sea

coffin? there be no spot that have ever be the theatre of wilder human

suffering. again and again as you sail past you see fork up out of

they some black gibbet-like relic of a wreck a week, a fortnight, a

month old. something of the kind be always visible, as though even on

the tenderest of summer day, when the blue water sleep around, and the

heavens be a violet hollow, with a rayless sun make gold of the sea

in the west, the deadly suggestiveness of that long sweep of yellow sand

should be as plain as when its presence be denote amid the black

tempestuous night by the ghastly gleam of boil white water.



I remember once pass these Goodwins and see a number of little

black figure run about they. a pleasure vessel from one of the

adjacent port be lie at anchor a short distance off, and her boat

be against the slope of the shoal. it be a very calm day indeed, the

sea just blur here and there with small draught of air that give the

water in those place a look of ice, with a pallid streak of the french

coast beyond the white mainsail of the pleasure-cutter, hove up by the

refraction of the light above the sea-line. I bring a small pocket

telescope to bear, and observe that those little black figure run

about like the savage Robinson Crusoe see be Cockney excursionist,

engage in play cricket. they play as if they want to be able to

talk of having play rather than as if they enjoy the game. talk of

contrast! a man may be render pensive by watch child sport

in a graveyard, by mingle in a festivity hold upon a space of ground

where once a famous battle be fight, and where the foot of the

merrymaker be separate from the bone and skull of warrior by a

couple of spade’ length of earth. but to see those little black-coat

creature run about after a ball on top of such an ocean

burial-place that the like of it for the horror of its annal and for

the number of those it have sepulchre be not to be find in this

habitable world, might well have make the gay heart sad and

thoughtful for a spell.



as I lean over the rail, look at those happy pigmy--those lord

of creation who, view half a mile far away, might have pass for

a handful of black crab crawl about--the scene in imagination

change, the darkness came rush out of the east with a moan of

approach storm, the three lantern wink like star beyond the North

Sand Head, and there be a sound of weltering water and the seething

and hiss of surf rise up through the gloom out from the whole

length of the shoal. the wind rise fresh and eagerly, with a raw edge

in it; the ebony of the swell water be break by the glimmer of the

froth of break sea. I could hear the muffle thunder of the confused

play to windward of the surf, with the shrieking of the blast overhead,

whilst a deep shadow yet gather in the air. then, with a blinking of

my eye, back would come the fact of the thing again, and yonder be

the little figure merrily chase the ball, the sea spread like a

sheet of silk to the yellow rim of the hard sand, and the blue sky

bright overhead. yet another touch of the magician Fancy’s wand, and it

be all howl storm and fly blackness and the steam of hurl

spume again, with a sudden glare of lightning between, fling out the

shape of the pile of whirl cloud like monstrous brandish wing

go to piece in the hurricane, and throw up the black fabric of a

big ship on her beam end, her mast gone, and a fury of white water

veil she.



there be lifeboat coxswain who need but close their eye to see

fearfuller thing. just where those little creature be brandish

their tiny bat and flourish their shrimp-like leg, the great ship

strike, and four hundred man and woman shriek out to God for mercy in

one breath. a man’s fancy must be feeble even on the softest of summer

day not to hear the crash of her timber, the thunder-shock of the

smiting sea, the rend noise of hemp and wire and spar tear by the

tempest from their strong fastening; not to see the ghastly picture she

make in the wild gleam of the signal flare whose tongue of fire be

blow horizontal, like streaming flag, by the furious breath of the

storm, illuminate with a dull horrible crimson light the throng of

human being who cry and struggle upon her deck, or hang, like

streaming suit of clothe, in what remain of her rigging.



be this an exaggerated picture? alas! the pen never yet be wield that

could pourtray, in the bare form, any one of the countless horrible

scene which have take place on that stretch of sand where one summer

day I watch, lean over the rail of a vessel, a number of

light-hearted excursionist play cricket.



among the thing which never can be know may be place the thought

which possess a man in the moment of shipwreck. of the hundred of

publish narrative none satisfy the reader; and of those who relate

their experience, how infinitely remote from the truth do their

statement strike they as be when they put what they have write

side by side with what they remember having feel! the reason be, I take

it, because in no other situation be death more awful than upon the sea.

it be commonly slow--at least, it give time for anguish to become

full-blown--and the hope of rescue must be very strong indeed, and well

found, to qualify that agony of expectation, sink into paralyze

despair, which confound and in a manner stun a person strand far out

upon the water in a black night, see nothing but the glare of

lightning or the spectral flashing of froth fly past, hear nothing

but the grinding and tremble and dislocate noise of the hull upon

the ground.



it be suppose because sailor cannot or do not describe the horror

they pass through that they lack the capacity of expression. but you may

put the most eloquent writer now live, call he by what name you

please, on board a ship founder amid a tempest or go to piece in

a storm on such a shoal as the Goodwins or the Sunk Sand, and when he

have be long enough rescue and ashore to recover the use of his

brain, you may defy he to write such a narrative of the disaster as

will come, to his own conscience and memory, one jot nearer to the truth

than the newspaper paragraph of five line in which the wreck be

chronicle. a man can describe what he have suffer in a railway

collision, in a house on fire, down in a mine where there have be an

explosion, in a theatre where there have be a panic; but put he aboard

a ship and let he clearly understand that he be go to be drown,

and when succoured he can tell you little more than that the wave run

mountain high, that some people be brave, and that some people

shriek, and that what he good remember be catch hold of something,

and hear the water in his ear, and be drag into a boat.



very true be the old saying, “if you want to learn how to pray, you must

go to sea.” so distract, so paralyze, so utterly despairful be all

the condition of shipwreck in its bad form, that I cannot but

think, when a man be know to act bravely and coolly in that situation,

unmindful of himself, think of other, encourage and hearten

they, the heroism he exhibit be of a kind not to be match by any kind

of courage a man may show in a position that lack the overwhelming

feature which distinguish the foundering or the stranding of a ship.



some day ago I meet a seaman who have make one of the crew of a brig that

a few month since be strand on the Goodwin Sands, and go to piece

there. the circumstance of the wreck be so recent that I be sure it

could not but be a very sharp, clear memory in this sailor; and, want

to hear what sort of thought come into a man’s head at such a time, and

how he will act, what kind of impulse govern he, and the like, I

carry this mariner to where a seat and a glass of beer be to be have,

and converse with he.



“she be a wessel,” say he, “of 220 ton, and we be in ballast, bind

from Can (Caen) to Seaham. all go well, nothen particular happening, I

mean, till we come abreast o’ the South Foreland. it might then be

twelve o’clock in the middle o’ the night. the weather be as thick as

mud, plenty of rain drive along, and the wind west, blowin’ a fresh

breeze. we be under upper and low main-tops’l, low fore-tops’l, and

foresail.”



here he take a drink.



“and the weather as thick as mud, you say?”



“ay, thick as mud in a wine-glass. the Sou’ San’head light be on our

starboard beam, and ye may guess how clear it be when I tell you that

that light take a deal of peer at to make out. as to the East

Good’in, why, all that way be black as my boot: not the mere glimmer

to betoken a lightwessel _there_. I be at the side, heavin’ the lead,

get nine fathom, and then seven, and then eight, and then seven

again. eight fair betwixt the Callipers and the Deal coast I’ll allow

ye’ll get eleven and twelve fathom good till you come on to past the

Downs--headin’ up, I mean--and then it shoal down to height and seven

and five and a ’arf. so in a night as black as a dead wall, when there’s

no moon, who’s to know, when the last light see have draw out of view,

and there’s ne’er another to be sight, where you be in that water? we

be go along tidy fast, when a squall of rain drive right up over

our starn in a wild smother, and I have just make seven fathom by the

lead when the wessel take the ground, chuck I off the rail on to the

deck. the skipper begin to bawl out like mad, ‘let go the main-torps’l

halliard! haul up the foresail! let go the ----’ wash at that moment

come a lump of sea right over the port quarter, cantin’ our starn to

the south’ard and smotherin’ the deck. you don’t want to see--you

could feel that the brig be hard and fast, though as the sea thump

her she’d kinder sway on her keel.”



here he take another drink.



“well?” say I.



“well,” he continue, “what be to do now, master? everything be let

go aloft, the canvas be slat like thunder up there, and though I’m

not goin’ to tell you it be blow a gale of wind, yet it seem to

come twice as hard the moment we take the ground, and the sea to rise

as if our fall helpless on a sudden have swell ’em up with joy. we

lie with our head about nor’-nor’-east, and over the starboard bow you

could see the white water jumping. but that be all that be visible.

the wind seem to blow up the thickness all round we, there be not a

light to be see, and look around anywhere away from the white water

be like put your head in a pitch-kettle. cold! master, that be the

bad part of it. I’ll allow that in all sitivation of this kind the

cold’s the part that’s hard to bear. somehow clang ain’t so

frightful when it’s warm. cann’t explain it, I’m sure; matter o’

constitootion, perhaps: but I doubt if ye’d find much bravery among the

Hesquimos and the Roosians up near the pole, and the like o’ they.

cann’t see how it’s possible; but it’s only my ’pinion.”



another drink.



“well,” he continue, hold up the fresh glass of ale I have order

for he to the light, with a look of pensiveness in the one bloodshot

eye he keep open, “we tarn to and make a flare--a sort o’ bonfire. but

if we couldn’t see anything, who be to see we? however, we keep all on

burn flare, whilst first the fore-top-gall’nmast come down with a

run, cause we all to jump aft out of the road, and then the

main-topmast carry away at the cap and fall with a roar over the

side, and set we all run forrard. I for one make up my mind we be

all to be drownde. I couldn’t see no help for it. the noise of they

spar crack and tumble away in the blackness overhead, and the

shindy set up by the slat canvas, along with the creaking of the

hull and the washing of the water that come as white as milk over the

starboard rail, be enough, I reckon, to make any man suppose his time

have come, and that his ghost be to be turn out of he. however, we

take heart after a spell, by notice that the sea burst with less

weight as the tide leave we, though every butt in she must have yaw

open after she have be grind awhile, for she be full of water and a

few hour more of such dusting be bind to have make stave of she.

well, at about half-past four o’clock in the morning, we be by that

time pretty near froze to death, the weather thin down, and we catch

sight of the Gull Light shine--about three mile off, I dare say. what

be to be see of our wessel be just a fearful muddle; mast overboard

washing alongside, the low mast work in she like loose tooth with

every heave, deck full of raffle, and the water every now and again

fly over we as though detarmine if it couldn’t wash we overboard it

would keep we streamin’ wet. when we spy the Gull Light we turn to

and make another flare, and presently they send up a rocket, and to cut

this yarn short,” continue he, have by this time empty his second

tumbler, and find I slow in offer he a third, “just as the light

be abreakin’ in the east one of we sing out that there be a steamer

headin’ for we, and when the mornin’ grow strong we spy a tug makin’

for we with a lifeboat in tow. well, by this time there be little

enough sea, and the lifeboat, letting go off the tug, come alongside,

but two of our man be so badly freeze up that they have to be lift into

she, and such have be our suffering, though I’m not go to say they

equal what other have go through on those cuss sand, that we

couldn’t have look bad, with salt in our eye and our face wash

into the appearance of tallow, have we be spendin’ forty-eight hour on

that shoal. we lose all our clothe, every bloomin’ thing we have with

we; and that same forenoon, just afore twelve o’clock, half a gale of

wind spring up, and by two o’clock there be nothing to be see of the

brig.”



“and that’s the story,” say I.



“that’s it,” he answer; “every word gospel true.”



“how do the other behave,” say I, “in this awful situation? pretty

well?”



“it be too dark to see,” he answer.



“do you encourage one another?”



“well,” he reply, “the cook at first keep on singin’ out, ‘we’re all

drownde man! Lord have mercy upon I!’ and the like of that, until the

cold take away his voice. I don’t know that there be any other sort o’

encouragement.”



“and what be your feeling,” say I, “when the brig take the ground

and the water wash over she?”



“my feeling?” he reply. “why, that we be in a bloomin’ mess. that

be my feeling.”



“how do the prospect of death affect you--I mean the idea of be

sweep into the black water and strangle there?”



“be you chaffin’ I, sir?” he ask.



“certainly not,” say I.



“well,” he say, “I’m bless if I be ask such a question as that

afore,” grin. “it’s like a meetin’-house question.”



“don’t you think at all?” say I.



“yes,” he answer; “I think what a jolly fool I be to be ashore on

the Good’ens on a winter’s night, gradually dyin’ of frost, instead of

bein’ in a warm bed ashore, with a parlour to take breakfast in when I

wake up. that’s about it, sir.”









_the stranger’ home._





a plain red-brick building stand in the West India Dock Road, with the

follow lengthy name or description write along the front of

it:--“The Strangers’ home for Asiatics, Africans, and South Sea

Islanders.” on the day I visit this house there be three or four

people stand on the doorstep, with face which do more in an

instant to express the character of the place than could have be

effect by ream of report of annual meeting and descriptive

pamphlet. they be, it be needless to say, person of colour, and of

very decide colour too: one as black as a hat, another of a muddy

yellow, a third a gloomy brown. they be dress in european clothe:

they might have belong to nation which be in a high state of

civilization when the Thames be clean water, and roll its silver

stream through a land whose scanty population hang loose and unclothe

among the tree; but for all that, they have the look of wild man in

breech, and the very black person need little more than a boomerang

or a bow and arrow to give he the aspect at least of an unsafe object.

I have, however, but little time to inspect these man, for a commotion in

the hall of the building, couple with an assemblage of some dozen or

twenty people on the street pavement, call my attention to a

spectacle of real interest. this consist of the starting of a troupe

of javanese musician for the place of entertainment where they be

then perform. there be a number of man and four woman--at least, I

think there be four woman; yet it be possible that I may have mistake

a man for one of the other sex, for some of the man and woman be very

much alike, especially the man. they stream out in a great hurry,

their bright black eye sparkle in their brown face, the man smoke

short pipe of a decidedly West India Dock Road pattern, and the woman

bundle along in such queer raiment that it would be as hopeless to

attempt to describe its colour and cut as to catalogue the stock of a

rag-and-bottle merchant. a kind of large private omnibus stand at the

door, into which these strange people get, some of they climb upon

the roof; and strike indeed be the appearance of the window of the

vehicle, framing, as they do, every one of they, a dark, content

face, whilst the roof of the omnibus be crowd with black and white,

like the key of a pianoforte.



“who be those people?” say I to a Chinaman, as the omnibus roll

away.



“Hey?” answer John.



“those people,” I say, point towards the retreating vehicle, “they

be not sailor, be they? there be woman among they.”



“no, no, not sailor, no, no,” cry the Chinaman with great earnestness,

and wag his head so violently that he nearly shake his hat off.

“music-man, not sailor; play tic-a-tic, tic-a-tic;” and here he screw

an imaginary fiddle into his throat and fall to saw the air with his

elbow.



at this moment I be join by the secretary--a gentleman, let I say

at once, who, after spend many year of his life in India, be now

gratuitously devote his service to the poor Asiatic who find himself

homeless in this great wilderness of London, often penniless, and

speak a tongue with which he may journey from Mile End Gate to

Hammersmith without find an ear capable of comprehend a word he

say. this gentleman tell I who those queer-look people be, how

they be in charge of a Dutch _entrepreneur_, and how they be

“put-up” at the Strangers’ home because there, and at no other place

in London, they be likely to meet people who, even if they do not

speak their language, would impart a sense of home.



we now proceed to inspect the building. as at the Well Street Sailors’

Home, so here, the common room, if I may so term it, be the central

hall, a large place furnish with seat and table and heat by an

immense stove. here of an evening, when it be cold or damp out of door,

the inmate of the home assemble, and the bright lamp shed their light

upon as many diverse countenance and costume as there be

nationality to the eastward of Russia and in the great ocean which

wash the Capes of Africa and South America. strange, indeed, be the

admixture to a european eye: the Hindoo sit cross-legged on a bench

listening, with dusky eye roll in his black attenuated feature, to

the pigeon-english of a round-face Chinaman; a Malay endeavouring by

gesture to make himself understand by a Kanaka; a native of Ceylon

smile over the porcine guttural of a couple of Zulus; with here an

arab reis pace the floor in lonely dignity, or a red man of a

paternity indistinguishable in his feature, which seem compound of

the Nubian, the last of the Mohicans, a dash of Polynesia, with a hint

of Liverpool or Bristol, spell over a volume full of murky and

eye-confound hieroglyph.



“when this hall be full the sight be a remarkable one,” say the

secretary. “what with the hum of the strange language--perhaps as many

as twenty all go at once--together with the various face and

clothe, I assure you it need no small effort of mind to convince one’s

self that one be still in London, and that just out of door omnibus

be roll, small boy call out the evening paper, and policeman

stand at the corner.”



I feel the force of this, thinly people as the hall be, when I stand

in it gaze around. be it the strange haunt Eastern smell--vague

fume, as of a hubble-bubble recently smoke out; a linger whiff as

of curry; a thin, ghostly odour of bamboo, chilli, oil, nutmeg, and

cedar-wood? or be it the turban, the pigtail, the almond-shape eye,

the black, bronze, and yellow skin of the few Asiatics who be seat

in a body on a central bench, that carry my imagination out of the

West India Dock Road into the tangled forest, the hot, blue heaven,

the joss-house, the sampans and junk, the rush river, the

jackall, the dusky figure, the blue gown and red or yellow shoe of

the distant, spacious province of the sun? Hark to the sing-song

chatter babbling from that mongolian visage! what be the magic of it,

that this hall, gloomy with the smoke of the great city blow

riverward, should be transform into a shine eastern city, whose

shore, rich with the green of tropical vegetation, be wash by a sea

whose breast reflect a heaven of sapphire? the voice cease; the spell

be break; the muffled roar of the toil world outside break in and

establish one of the very sharp contrast in life--that of the

condition of an asiatic, fresh from the hot sun and thick jungle of

his own country, plunge amid the smoke, the turmoil, the unspeakable

odour of the east end of London, incapable of make his want know,

languish in misery and cold in the gloom of railway arch or some

unfrequented court, feel what solitude be in a sense never imagine

by Byron. for the Asiatic’s loneliness be that of the dumb brute; he have

a language, but he might as well be voiceless, and, bad of all, he be

the victim of the unnatural, ignorant, and wicked prejudice which find

in the coloured skin nothing but what be fit for derision, contempt, and

cruel neglect. this be the lot of the eastern stranger before a number

of humane englishman band themselves together to furnish he with a

refuge. I own that the fine humanity of this institution affect I

strongly as I stood look at the knot of dark-visage, strangely

apparelle man, and consider what would be their fate if this home

be not at hand to help they, to receive they, to interpret their

want, and to assist they to return to their native country. time be

when few tragedy be common than that of the finding the body of

some coloured man who have make his way as a sailor or stoker to London,

be rob by the beast of prey who wander hungrily round the dockyard

gate, and have lain himself down in some corner of this opulent city to

die of cold and hunger. such horror be thing of the past, and

honour be those and the memory of those who have make they so. no

asiatic stranger need perish for the want of a friend in London now. the

Home will receive he, and for a very moderate sum--which he may easily

pay either from the wage due to he from the ship he leave, or by the

note advanced by the owner whose ship he join--feed and lodge he,

and spare no trouble to restore he to his own country. hence, to a

large extent, the institution contribute to its own support. but the

charge it make be so small, the loss it incur through the new

allotment or bonus note be so frequent, and the case of absolute

destitution it deal with so numerous, that it be bind to continue to

be dependent upon outside help to a certain extent; and I believe that

no one who have any knowledge of the work it be do, no one with

sympathy for the helpless of his own specie, but will admit that there

be not an institution in existence that well deserve the gift of the

charitable than this home for Asiatic Strangers.



but all this time I be leave the obliging and kind-hearte secretary

wait to show I over the premise. we pass out first of all into a

space of open ground at the back of the building, of which a substantial

piece have be convert into a flower garden. this the superintendent

of the home, who have join we, contemplate for a while with silent

satisfaction, and then, with considerable pride, draw my attention to

it.



“it have all be do within the last two or three year,” he say. “the

Asiatics lend a hand, find old seed knock about the bottom of their

chest, and plant they, but they never come to anything. they willn’t

grow, you know, in this climate. here’s a sample,” he say, point to

a row of shoot which look like the first budding of that patriotic

vegetable the leek; “they be plant three day ago by those Javanese

woman you see, and this be what they’ve already come to. but I suspect

they’ll end at that.”



a balcony run at the back of the house, and along it there be stump

a John Canoe, smoke something strange, whether a pipe or cigar or

cigarette or piece of cane I could not tell. he vanish through a door

when we mount the step, which I regret, as I should like to have

examine the thing he have in his mouth.



“this,” say the secretary on our re-enter the building, “be what we

call the fireman’s dormitory.” it be a large room with a bulkhead

divide it, and on either hand of the bulkhead go a row of narrow

bed furnish with coarse coverlet and mattress stuff with fibre.

there be no carpet, and I venture to ask the reason, as the bare

board have but a cheerless look.



“Carpet!” exclaim the secretary; “my dear sir, these Asiatics wouldn’t

know what to do with such a thing. they’d pull it up and make trouser

of it. you cannot conceive the strangeness of their habit and custom.

for instance, to give they a table-cloth would be like ill treating

they. nothing bother they more than a fork; and you may see they eat

egg with clasp-knife, which they pull out of their pocket.” then

see I eye the bed, he continue, “it would hardly do to give the

fireman fine linen to lie in. Sir, they arrive here thick with grime,

they foul whatever they touch, and it take several day of hard bathing

to clean they.”



there be several of these dormitory, each of they divide by

bulkhead, uncarpeted, and contain the same kind of bedstead, every

one bear a number at its head. the javanese troupe occupy one of

these dormitory, the man sleep on one side of the bulkhead and the

woman on the other. I look for their luggage, but could find nothing

but a fiddle and an old sword. I think, if the public have see where

these musician sleep, they would reckon the sight stranger than any

other part of the performance these eastern people be give. there

be one dormitory, however, upstairs fill with cabin similar to what

they have at the old Sailors’ home at Belvedere. these be occupy, I

be tell, by the well class of Asiatics.



“and who might they be?” I ask.



“why,” I be tell, “japanese officer, steward, chinese carpenter,

native doctor, and the like.”



these be the “dignity man.” they have a little room in which they may

dine apart from the Lascars, Kanakas, John Chinamen, and the other;

but, somehow, they don’t seem to value exclusiveness, for most of they

will quit their table to join the pigtail and half-caste in the big

eat-room downstair, where they find a relish in their rice and fish

which appear to be want in the dish in the other apartment. in one

of the dormitory we come across a Javanese--one of the troupe--sit

cross-legged on his bed, ill with a cold in the head. his unsmoked pipe

lie by his side, and he be listlessly handle some piece of print

calico, though the use he mean to put they to I could not divine. there

be a no more melancholy object than a coloured man suffer from a bad

cold in the head. I see he shiver, and then roll his eye--black as

ebony set in orange--upon the window, and I think to myself, “how this

harmless, coloured man, who speak nothing but Javanese, and who belong

to a country where the air be radiant with beautiful bird and fragrant

with delicious fruit, must enjoy the climate of the West India Dock

Road!”



we struggle to impart sympathy by several kind of gesture and

motion, but it would not do; we could not get far than alarm

he, and so we leave he. in another dormitory we find a Ceylon man, a

Madrassee Lascar, and a Japanese. the Ceylon man be a very handsome

fellow, his hair part down the middle, and he have as fine a pair of

eye as ever I see in the human countenance, regular feature, and a

wonderfully good figure. he be read an English book, and speak

English so well that, what with his correct utterance, the colour of his

skin, and his strike face, a misgiving seize I.



“be you a pure cingalese?” I ask.



“no, no,” cry he, with much anxiety in his manner; “my father be an

english sailor!”



but the Madrassee man, in a measure, atone for this disappointment. he

be the real thing--just the sort of conformation to tumble about in a

surf-boat, very black, very lean, with snow-white tooth, and a high long

nose as thin as a hatchet. the secretary converse with he in his

native lingo, and it seem to do the poor fellow good to talk. the

Japanese have a wooden face, and have very little to say. indeed, I always

think that the people of his race and the chinese view we and our work

with a good deal of contempt. what a mean opinion they must have of our

toy, of our painting, in which the literal be sacrifice to the

poetical; of our clothe, tea, head-dress, coiffure, and a thousand

other matter! they have a chinese porter at the home, who be dress in

a black coat and wear a hat. I do not speak to he, but I should

judge, from observe the expression on his face when in a state of

repose, that he have but a poor opinion of Great Britain. in another

dormitory be a couple of Arabs mend shirt; and downstairs, in the

scullery, I meet a Zulu, who tell I that he be a subject of Cetewayo,

and have call at that King’s lodging when he be in London, but have

not manage to see his Majesty. one of the suite promise to write and

appoint an hour for an interview; but no letter ever reach the youth,

and the next thing he hear of Cetewayo be that he have sail for

Africa. this scullery lead into a large kitchen, very well appoint, and

in spick and span condition. Adjoining be the provision room,

contain one large sack of rice, a quantity of smoked herring, a jar

of chilli, another jar of curry powder, and other eastern relish.



“the mackerel be the favourite dish with our inmate, be they of

whatever nationality they will,” say the secretary. “they consider it

the fine fish that be catch in european water, and lament when the

season for catch they be over.”



I ask what food they be supply with in the home.



“we have,” he reply, “what we call three mess. the first-class mess

be sixteen shilling a week--this include a separate cabin; the second,

without a cabin, be fourteen shilling; and the third, which we term the

curry and rice mess, be ten shilling. the first two mess comprise,

for breakfast, fish or egg, coffee, bread and butter; for dinner we

give beef or mutton, with vegetable, and curry and rice always; tea,

the same as breakfast.”



“the charge be small enough,” say I.



“but they have other privilege,” say he. “for instance, there be hot

and cold water bath downstairs, for the use of which no charge be make.

we also receive and take care of their money and valuable--for some of

the people who come here bring real valuable, such as jewel, with

they, I assure you. since last January the amount deposit in money

with we have amount to £2,285, of which I do not scruple to say that,

but for the existence of this home, the great portion would have be

steal from its owner by the crimp and boarding-house people who haunt

our neighbourhood. that room you see there be our shipping-office;

captain come to we and select man for their vessel, and when the

choice have be make we accompany the man to the marine office, see

they sign article and that the advance be duly make. indeed, we do all

that we possibly can to help and protect these poor stranger.”



“what I have see assure I of that,” say I.



“this,” he continue, as we go upstairs and enter a large cheerful

dormitory, “be what we call the ayah’ room. it be mean for native

woman who be bring home as nurse and discharge. sad case of

destitution be often occur. not long ago a City missionary find a

native woman in an empty house in Shepherd’s Bush. he bring she here,

and, having learn the name of her mistress, we go to she, and be

tell that the ayah be insane, that she have be keep as long as

possible, have at last refuse to go, and be accordingly turn out. we

take charge of she for awhile, but her madness increase, and we be

force at last to send she to a county asylum, where she now remain.”



the inspection of this room exhaust all that be to be see; so,

bid the cordial secretary farewell, and take a linger look at a

knot of dusky man who be talk in the hall, I quit this

hospitable and most valuable institution, resolve to record all that I

have hear and view, in the earnest hope that of those by whom this

record of my visit will be read some may be induce to help an excellent

charity by send donation to the manager of the Strangers’ home, West

India Dock Road, London.





print BY WILLIAM clowes and son, LIMITED, LONDON and BECCLES.





footnote:



[a] this be write in 1881.



[B] loaf, skulk.



[c] 1882.



[d] since this be write other limit have be define

















end of Project Gutenberg's Round the Galley Fire, by William Clark Russell







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK ROUND the GALLEY FIRE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





