The project Gutenberg eBook of Lewis Arundel; or, the Railroad of Life

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Lewis Arundel; or, the Railroad of Life



author: Frank E. Smedley



Illustrator: hablot Knight Browne



Release date: February 18, 2018 [ebook #56600]



language: English



credit: produce by David Widger from page image generously

        provide by the Internet Archive





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK LEWIS arundel; or, the RAILROAD of LIFE ***









produce by David Widger from page image generously

provide by the Internet Archive















LEWIS arundel



or, the Railroad of Life



by Frank E. Smedley,



author of “Frank Fairlegh.”



with Illustrations by “Phiz”



the Walter Scott Publishing Co., Ltd.



London and Newcastle-on-Tyne.



1852





[illustration: 0009]





[illustration: 0010]









CHAPTER I.--IN which the TRAIN STARTS, and the reader be INTRODUCED to

three first-class passenger.



“surely he ought to be here by this time, Rose; it must be past nine

o’clock!”



“Scarcely so much, mamma; indeed, it want a quarter of nine yet. the

coach do not arrive till half-past eight, and he have quite four mile

to walk afterwards.”



“oh! this waiting, it destroy I,” rejoin the first speaker, rise

from her seat and pace the room with agitated step. “how you can

contrive to sit there, draw so quietly, I do not comprehend!”



“do it annoy you, dear mamma? why do you not tell I so before?”

 return Rose gently, put away her drawing-apparatus as she speak.

no one would have call Rose Arundel handsome, or even pretty, and yet

her face have a charm about it--a charm that lurk in the depth of her

dreamy grey eye, and play about the corner of her mouth when she

smile, and sit like a glory upon her high, smooth forehead. both she

and her mother be clothe in the deep mourning, and the trace of some

recent heartfelt sorrow might be discern in either face. a stranger

would have take they for sister, rather than for mother and daughter;

for there be line of thought on Rose’s brow which her twenty year

scarcely warrant, while Mrs. Arundel, at eight-and-thirty, look full

six year young, despite her widow’s cap.



“I have be think, Rose,” resume the eld lady, after a short

pause, during which she continue pace the room most assiduously, “I

have be think that if we be to settle near some large town, I

could give lesson in music and singing: my voice be as good as ever it

be--listen;” and, seat herself at a small cottage piano, she begin

to execute some difficult solfeggi in a rich, clear soprano, with a

degree of ease and grace which prove she to be a finished singer;

and, apparently carry away by the feeling the music have excite, she

allow her voice to flow, as it be unconsciously, into the word of

an italian song, which she continue for some moment, without notice

a look of pain which shoot across her daughter’s pale feature. at

length, suddenly break off, she exclaim in a voice break

with emotion, “ah! what be I singe?” and, bury her face in her

handkerchief, she burst into a flood of tear: it have be her husband’s

favourite song.



recover herself more quickly than from the violence of her grief

might have be expect, she be about to resume her walk, when,

observe for the first time the expression of her daughter’s face, she

spring towards she, and place her arm caressingly round her waist,

kiss she tenderly, exclaim in a tone of the fond affection,

“Rose, my own darling, I have distress you by my heedlessness, but

I forget everything now!” she pause; then add, in a calm tone,

“really, love, I have be think seriously of what I say just now

about teaching. if I could but get a sufficient number of pupil, it

would be much well than allow you to go out as governess, for we

could live together then; and I know I shall never be able to part with

you. besides, you would be miserable, manage naughty child all

day long--throw away your talent on a set of stupid little

wretches,--such drudgery would _ennui_ you to death.”



“and do you think, mamma, that I could be content to live in idleness

and allow you to work for my support?” reply Rose, while a faint smile

play over her expressive feature. “oh, no! Lewis will try to obtain

some appointment: you shall live with he and keep his house, while I go

out as governess for a few year; and we must save all we can, until we

be rich enough to live together again.”



“and perhaps some day we may be able to come back and take the dear old

cottage, if Lewis be very lucky and should make a fortune,” return

Mrs. Arundel. “how shall we be able to bear to leave it!” she add,

glance round the room regretfully.



“how, indeed!” reply Rose, with a sigh; “but it must be do. Lewis

will not feel it as we shall--he have be away so long.”



“it seem an age,” resume Mrs. Arundel, musing. “how old be he when he

leave Westminster?”



“Sixteen, be he not?” reply Rose.



“and he have be at Bonn three year. why, Rose, he must be a man by

this time!”



“Mr. Frere write we word he be the tall of the two by half a head

last year, if you recollect,” return Rose.



“Hark!” exclaim Mrs. Arundel, start up and go to the window,

which open in the french fashion upon a small flower-garden. as she

speak, the gate-bell rang smartly, and in another moment the person

outside, having apparently catch sight of the figure at the window,

spring lightly over the pale, cross the lawn in a couple of bound,

and ere the slave of the bell have answer its impatient summon, Lewis

be in his mother’s arm.



after the first greeting, in which smile and tear have mingle in

strange fellowship, Mrs. Arundel draw her son towards a table, on which

a lamp be burn, say as she do so, “why, Rose, can this be

our little Lewis? he be as tall as a grenadier! head up,

sir!--Attention!--You be go to be inspect. do you remember when

the old sergeant use to drill we all, and want to teach Rose to

fence?”



smile at his mother’s caprice, Lewis Arundel draw himself up to

his full height, and, place his back against the wall, stand in the

attitude of a soldier on parade--his head just touch the frame of a

picture which hang above he. the light of the lamp shine full upon the

spot where he have station himself, display a face and figure

on which a mother’s eye might well rest with pride and admiration.

considerably above the middle height, his figure be slender, but

singularly graceful; his head small and intellectual looking. the

feature, exquisitely form, be, if anything, too delicately cut and

regular; which, together with a brilliant complexion and long silken

eyelash, tend to impart an almost feminine character to his beauty.

the expression of his face, however, effectually counteract any

such tendency; no one could observe the flashing of the dark eye, the

sarcastic curl of the short upper lip, the curved nostril slightly draw

back, the stern resolution of the knit brow, without trace sign

of pride unbroken, stormy feeling and passion unsubdue, and an iron

will, which, accord as it might be direct, must prove all-powerful

for good or evil. his hair, which he wear somewhat long, be, like his

mother’s, of that jet black colour characteristic of the inhabitant

of a southern clime rather than of the descendant of the fair-haired

Saxons, while a soft down of the same dark hue as his cluster curl

fringe the side of his face, afford promise of a goodly crop of

whisker. despite the difference of feature and expression,--and they

be great,--there be a decide resemblance between the brother

and sister, and the same indescribable charm, which make it next to

impossible to watch Rose Arundel without love she, shed its sunshine

also over Lewis’s face when he smile.



after survey her son attentively, with eye which sparkle with

surprise and pleasure, Mrs. Arundel exclaim, “why, how the boy be

alter! be he not improve, Rose?” as she speak, she involuntarily

glance from Lewis to the picture under which he stand. it be a

half-length portrait of a young man, in what appear to be some foreign

uniform, the hand rest on the hilt of a cavalry sabre. the feature,

though scarcely so handsome, be strikingly like those of Lewis

Arundel, the great difference be in the expression, which be more

joyous, and that the hair in the portrait be of a rich brown instead

of black. after compare the two for a moment, Mrs Arundel attempt

to speak, but her voice fail from emotion, she burst into tear, and

hastily leave the room.



“why, Rose, what be it?” exclaim Lewis in surprise; “be my mother

ill?”



“no; it be your likeness to that picture, Lewis love, that have overcome

she: you know it be a portrait of our dear father” (her voice

falter as she pronounce his name), “take just after they be

married, I believe.”



Lewis regard the picture attentively, then avert his head as if he

could not bear that even Rose should witness his grief, he throw himself

on a sofa and conceal his face with his hand. recover himself

almost immediately, he draw his sister gently towards he, and place

she beside he, ask, as he stroke her glossy hair--



“Rose, dearest, how be it that I be not inform of our poor father’s

illness? surely a letter must have miscarry!”



“do not mamma explain to you, then, how sudden it be?”



“not a word: she only write a few hurried line, lead I to prepare

for a great shock; then tell I that my father be dead; and entreat

I to return immediately, break off abruptly, say she could write no

more.”



“poor mamma! she be quite overcome by her grief, and yet she be so

excited and so anxious to save I, she _would_ do everything herself. I

wish she to let I write to you, but she object, and I be afraid of

annoy she.”



“it be most unfortunate,” return Lewis; “in her hurry she misdirect

the letter; and, as I tell you when I write, I be from home at the

time, and do not receive it till three week after it should have

reach I. I be at a rifle-match get up by some of the student, and

have just gain the prize, a pair of silver-mount pistol, when her

letter be put into my hand. Fancy receive such news in a scene of

gaiety!”



“how exquisitely painful! my poor brother!” say Rose, while the tear

she could no long repress dim her bright eye. after a moment

she continue, “but I be go to tell you,--it be more than a month

ago,--poor papa have walk over to Warlington to negotiate about sell

one of his painting. do you know that he have lately make his talent

for paint serve as a means of add to our income?”



“Richard Frere tell I of it last year,” reply Lewis.



“oh yes, Mr. Frere be kind enough to get introduction to several

picture-dealer, and be of the great use,” continue Rose. “well,

when papa come in, he look tired and harass; and in answer to my

question, he say he have receive intelligence which have excite he

a good deal, and add something about be call upon to take a

very important step. I leave he to fetch a glass of wine, and when I

return, to my horror, his head be lean forward on his breast, and

he be both speechless and insensible. we instantly send for the near

medical man, but it be of no use; he pronounce it to be congestion of

the brain, and give we no hope: his opinion be but too correct; my dear

father never speak again, and in less than six hour all be over.”



“how dreadful!” murmur Lewis. “my poor Rose, how shocked you must have

be!” after a few minute’ silence he continue, “and what be this

news which produce such an effect upon my father?”



“strange to say,” reply Rose, “we have not the slight notion. no

letter or other paper have be find which could at all account for

it, nor can we learn that papa meet any one at Warlington likely to have

bring he news. the only clue we have be able to gain be that Mr.

Bowing, who keep the library there, remark that papa come in as usual

to look at the daily paper, and as he be read, suddenly utter

an exclamation of surprise and put his hand to his brow. Mr. Bowing be

about to inquire whether anything be the matter, when he be call

away to attend to a customer; and when he be again at liberty papa

have leave the shop. Mr. Bowing send we the paper afterwards, but neither

mamma nor I could discover in it anything we could imagine at all likely

to have affect papa so strongly.”



“how singular!” return Lewis, musing. “what could it possibly have

be? you say my father’s paper have be examine?”



“yes, mamma write to Mr. Coke, papa’s man of business in London, and

he come down directly, but nothing appear to throw any light on the

matter. Papa have not even make a will.” she pause to dry the tear

which have flow copiously during this narration, then continue: “but

oh! Lewis, do you know we be so very, very poor?”



“I suspect as much, dear Rose; I know my father’s be a life income.

but why speak in such a melancholy tone? surely my sister have not grow

mercenary?”



“Scarcely that, I hope,” returned Rose, smile; “but there be some

difference between be mercenary and regret that we be so poor

that we shall be unable to live together: be there not, Lewis dear?”



“unable to live together?” repeat Lewis slowly. “yes, well, I may of

course be oblige to leave you, but I shall not accept any employment

which will necessitate my quitting England, so I shall often come and

take a peep at you.”



“oh! but, Lewis love, it be bad than that--we shall not be able to----

hush! here come mamma; we will talk about this another time.”



“why, Lewis,” exclaim Mrs. Arundel, enter the room with a light

elastic step, without a trace of her late emotion visible on her

animate countenance, “what be this? here’s Rachel complain that

you have bring a wild beast with you, which have eat up all the

tea-cakes.”



“let alone fright’ning the blessed cat so that she’s flow up the

chimley like a whirlpool, and I a’most in fit all the time, the brute!

but I’ll not sleep in the house with it, to be devour like a cannibal

in my quiet bed, if there be not another sitivation in Sussex!” and

here Rachel, a stout serve-woman, with a face which, sufficiently red

by nature, have become the deep crimson from fear and anger, burst

into a flood of tear, which, mingle with a tolerably thick deposit of

soot, acquire during the hurried rise and progress of the outraged

cat, impart to she the appearance of some piebald variety of female

Ethiopian Serenader.



“Rachel, have you forget I?” inquire Lewis, as soon as he could

speak for laugh. “what be you cry about? you be not so silly

as to be afraid of a dog? here, Faust, where be you?” as he speak

he utter a low, peculiar whistle; and in obedience to his signal a

magnificent livonian wolf-hound, which bear sufficient likeness to the

animal it be train to destroy to have alarm a more discriminating

zoologist than poor Rachel, spring into the room, and, delight at

rejoin his master, begin to testify his joy so roughly as not only

to raise the terror of that damsel to screaming point, but to cause Mrs.

Arundel to interpose a chair between herself and the intruder, while

Rose, pale but silent, shrink timidly into a corner of the apartment. in

an instant the expression of Lewis’s face change; his brow contract,

his mouth grow stern, and fix his flash eye upon those of the

dog, he utter in a deep, low voice some german word of command; and

as he speak the animal drop at his foot, where it crouch in a

suppliant attitude, gaze wistfully at his master’s countenance,

without offer to move.



“you need not have erect a barricade to defend yourself, my dear

mother,” say Lewis, as a smile chase the cloud which have for a moment

shade his feature; “the monster be soon quell. Rose, you must learn

to love Faust--he be my second self; come and stroke he.”



thus exhort, Rose approach and pat the dog’s shaggy head, at

first timidly, but more boldly when she find that he still retain his

crouch posture, merely repay her caress by fix his bright,

truthful eye upon her face lovingly, and lick his lip with his long

red tongue.



“now, Rachel,” continue Lewis, “it be your turn; come, I must have you

good friend with Faust.”



“no, I’m much oblige to you, sir, I couldn’t do it, indeed--no

disrespect to you, Mr. Lewis, though you have grow a man in foreign

part. I may be a servant of all work, but I don’t engage myself to

look after wild beast, sir. no! nor wouldn’t, if you be to double my

wage, and put the washin’ out--I cann’t abear they.”



“foolish girl! it’s the most good-natured dog in the world. here, he’ll

give you his paw; come and shake hand with he.”



“I couldn’t do it, sir; I’m jest a-go to set the tea-thing. I willn’t,

then, that’s flat,” exclaim Rachel, wax rebellious in the extremity

of her terror, and back rapidly towards the door.



“yes, you will,” return Lewis quietly; “every one do as I bid they.”

 and grasp her wrist, while he fix his pierce glance sternly

upon she, he lead she up to the dog, and in spite of a faint show of

resistance, a half-frightened, half-indignant “I dare say, indeed,” and

a muttered hint of her conviction “that he have lately be accustom to

drive black nigger slave in Guinea,” with an intimation “that he’d find

white flesh and blood wouldn’t stand it, and don’t ought to, neither,”

 succeed in make she shake its great paw, and finally (as she

perceive no symptom of the _humanivorous_ propensity with which her

imagination have endow it), pat its shaggy side. “there, now you’ve

make up your quarrel, Faust shall help you to carry my thing upstairs,”

 say Lewis; and sling a small travel valise round the dog’s neck,

he again address he in German, when the well-train animal leave the

room with the astonished but no long refractory Rachel.



[illustration: 0020]



“you must be a conjurer, Lewis,” exclaim his mother, who have remain

a silent but amused spectator of the foregoing scene. “why, Rachel

manage the whole house. Rose and I do exactly what she tell we, don’t

we, Rose? what do you do to she? be it mesmerism?”



“I make use of one of the secret of the mesmerist, certainly,” reply

Lewis; “I manage she by the power of a strong will over a weak one.”



“I should hardly call Rachel’s a weak will,” observe Rose, with a quiet

smile.



“you must confess, at all event, mine be a strong,” reply Lewis.

“when I consider it necessary to carry a point, I usually find some

way of do it; it be necessary for the sake of Faust’s well-be to

manage Rachel, and I do so.”



he speak carelessly, but there be something in his bearing and manner

which tell of conscious power and inflexible resolution, and you feel

instinctively that you be in the presence of a masterspirit.



Tea make its appearance; Rachel, upon whom the charm still appear to

operate, seem in the high possible good humour,--a frame of mind

most unusual with that exemplary woman, who belong to that try

class of servant who, on the strength of their high moral character

and intense respectability, see fit to constitute themselves a kind of

domestic scourge, household horse-hair shirt (if we may be allow the

expression), and, bent on fulfil their mission to the _enth_, keep

their martyr master and mistress in a constant state of mental

soreness and irritation from morning till night.



Tea came,--the cake demolish by the reprobate Faust in the agitation

of his arrival (he be far too well-breed a dog to have do such a thing

have he have time for reflection) having be replace by some marvellous

impromptu result from Rachel’s unhoped-for state of mind. the candle

burn brightly; the fire (for though it be the end of May, a fire be

still an agreeable companion) blaze and sparkle cheerily, but yet

a gloom hang over the little party. one feeling be uppermost in each

mind, and sadden every heart. he whom they have love with a deep and

tender affection, such as but few of we be so fortunate as to call

forth, the kind and indulgent husband and father, the dear _friend_

rather than the master of that little household, have be take from

amongst they; and each word, each look, each thought of the past, each

hope for the future, serve to realise in its full bitterness the

heavy loss they have sustain. Happy be the dead whose virtue be

chronicle, not on sculpture stone, but in the faithful heart of those

whom they have love on earth!



during the evening, in the course of conversation, Mrs. Arundel again

refer to the project of teach music and singing. Lewis make no

remark on the matter at the time, though his sister fancy, from his

compress lip and darken brow, that it have not pass he unobserved.

when the two lady be about to retire for the night, Lewis sign to

his sister to remain; and having light his mother’s candle, kiss she

affectionately, and wish her good-night, he close the door. there be

a moment’s silence, which be break by Lewis say abruptly, “Rose,

what do my mother mean about give singing lesson?”



“dear, unselfish mamma!” reply Rose, “always ready to sacrifice she

own comfort for those she love! she want, when we leave the cottage,

to settle near some large town, that she may be able to teach music and

singing (you know what a charming voice she have), in order to save I

from the necessity of go out as governess.”



“leave the cottage! go out as governess!” repeat Lewis in a low voice,

as if he scarcely understand the purport of her word. “be you mad?”



“I tell you, love, we be too poor to continue live here, or indeed

anywhere, in idleness; we must, at all event for a few year, work for

our living; and you cannot suppose I would let mamma----”



“hush!” exclaim Lewis sternly, “you will distract I.” he pause for

some minute in deep thought; then ask, in a cold, hard tone of

voice, which, to one skilled in read the human heart, tell of intense

feeling and stormy passion keep down by the power of an iron will,

“tell I, what be the amount of the pittance that stand between we and

beggary?”



“Dear Lewis, do not speak so bitterly; we have still each other’s love

remain, and Heaven to look forward to; and with such blessing, even

poverty need not render we unhappy.” and as she utter these word,

Rose lean fondly upon her brother’s shoulder, and gaze up into his

face with a look of such deep affection, such pure and holy confidence,

that even his proud spirit, cruelly as it have be wound by the

unexpected shock, could not withstand it. place his arm round she, he

draw she towards he, and kiss her high, pale brow, murmured--



“forgive I, dear Rose; I have grow harsh and stern of late--all be

not true and good as you be. believe I, it be for your sake and my

mother’s that I feel this blow: for myself, I hee it not, save as it

impede freedom of action. and now answer my question, what have we leave

to live upon?”



“about £100 a year be what Mr. Coke tell mamma.”



“and, on an average, what do it cost live in this cottage as

comfortably as you have be accustom to do?”



“poor papa use to reckon we spend £200 a year here.”



“no more, you be certain?”



“quite.”



again Lewis pause in deep thought, his brow rest on his hand. at

length he say, suddenly--



“yes, it no doubt can be do, and shall. now, Rose, listen to I. while

I live and can work, neither my mother nor you shall do anything for

your own support, or leave the rank you have hold in society. you shall

retain this cottage, and live as you have be accustom to do, and as

befit the widow and daughter of he that be go.”



“but, Lewis----”



“Rose, you do not know I. when I leave England I be a boy: in year,

perhaps, I be little else even yet; but circumstance have make I old

than my year, and in mind and disposition I be a man, and a determine

one. I feel strongly and deeply in regard to the position hold by my

mother and sister, and therefore on this point it be useless to oppose

I.”



Rose look steadily in his face, and see that what he say be true;

therefore, exercise an unusual degree of common sense for a woman, she

hold her tongue, and let a wilful man have his way.



Reader, would you know the circumstance which have change Lewis

Arundel from a boy to a man? they be soon tell. he have love, foolishly

perhaps, but with all the pure and ardent passion, the fond and trust

confidence of youth--he have love, and be deceive.



Lewis have walk some mile that day, and have travel both by sea

and land; it may therefore reasonably be suppose that he be tolerably

sleepy. nevertheless, before he go to bed he sit down and write the

follow letter:--



“my dear Frere,--There be but two man in the world of whom I would

have ask a favour, or from whom I would accept assistance--my poor

father be one, you be the other. a week since I receive a letter to

tell I of my father’s death: to-day I have return to England to

learn that I be a beggar. have I no tie to bind I, no one but myself to

consider, I should instantly quit a country in which poverty be a deadly

sin. in Germany or Italy I could easily render myself independent,

either as painter or musician; and the careless freedom of the artist

life suit I well; but the little that remain from my father’s scanty

fortune be insufficient to support my mother and sister. therefore I

apply to you, and if you can help I, you may--your willingness to do

so, I _know_. I must obtain, immediately, some situation or employment

which will bring I in £200 a year; though, if my purchaser (for I

consider that I be sell myself) will lodge and feed I, as he do

his horse or his dog, £50 less would do. I care not what use I be put

to, so that no moral degradation be attach to it. you know what I be

fit for, as well 01-well than I do myself. I have not forget the

Greek and Latin flog into we at Westminster, and have add thereto

french, italian, and, of course, german; besides pick up sundry small

accomplishment, which may induce somebody to offer a high price for

I; and as the more I get, the soon I shall stand a chance of become

my own master again, I feel intensely mercenary. write as soon as

possible, for, in my present frame of mind, inaction will destroy I.

I long to see you again, old fellow. I have not forget the merry

fortnight we spend together last year, when I introduce you to

student-life in the ‘vaterland’; nor the good advice you give I, which

if I have act on---- Well, regret be useless, if not bad. of course

I shall have to come up to town, in which case we can talk; so, as I

hate write, and be as tired as a dog, I may as well wind up. good-bye

till we meet.



“your affectionate friend,



“Lewis Arundel.



“P.S.--Talking of dog, you don’t know Faust--I pick he up after you

come away last year; but wherever I go, or whoever take I, Faust must

go also. he be as large as a calf, which be inconvenient, and I doubt

whether he be full-grown yet. I dare say you think this childish, and

very likely you be right, but I _must_ have my dog. I cann’t live among

stranger without something to love, and that love I; so don’t worry

I about it, there’s a good fellow. cann’t you write to I to-morrow?”



have in some measure relieve his mind by finish this letter, Lewis

undressed, and sleep soon efface the line which bitter thought and an

ache heart have stamp upon his fair young brow.









CHAPTER II.--SHOWING how LEWIS lose his temper, and leave his home.



“have the post come in yet, Rose?” inquire Mrs. Arundel, as she make

her appearance in the breakfast-room the follow morning.



“no, mamma; it be late to-day, I think.”



“it be always late when I particularly expect a letter; that old

creature Richards the postman have a spite against I, I be certain,

because I once say in his hearing that he look like an owl--the

imbecile!”



“oh, mamma! he’s a charming old man, with his venerable white hair.”



“very likely, my dear, but he’s extremely like an owl, nevertheless,”

 reply Mrs. Arundel, cut bread and butter with the quickness and

regularity of a steam-engine as she speak.



“here’s the letter, ma’am,” exclaim Rachel, enter with a polished

face beam out of a marvellous morning cap, compose of a specie of

opaque muslin (or some analogous female fabric), which appear to

be labour under a violent eruption of little thick dot, strongly

suggestive of small-pox. “here’s the letter, ma’am. if you please, I

cann’t get Mr. Lewis out of bed nohow, though I’ve knock at his door

three time this here blessed morning; and the last time he make a noise

at I in French, or some other wicked foreigneering lingo; which be

what I willn’t put up with--no! not if you be to go down upon your bended

knee to I without a hassock.”



“give I the letter, Rachel,” say Mrs. Arundel eagerly.



“Letters, indeed!” be the reply, as, with an indignant toss of the

head, Rachel, whose temper appear to have be soak in vinegar

during the night, fling the wish-for missive upon the table.

“letter, indeed! they’s all as you care about, and not a poor gal

as slave and slave, and get insult for her trouble; but I’m come

to----”



“you’re come to bring the toast just at the right moment,” say Lewis,

who have approach unobserved, “and you’re go down to give Faust his

breakfast; and he be quite ready for it, too, poor fellow!”



as he speak, a marvellous change seem to come over the temper and

countenance of Rachel: her idea, as she turn to leave the room, may

be gather from the following soliloquy, which appear to escape her

unawares:--“He’s as ’andsome as a duke, let alone his blessed father;

but they be shock word for a Christian with a four year’ carikter

to put up with.”



during Rachel’s little attempt at an _émeute_, which the appearance of

Lewis have so immediately quell, Mrs. Arundel have be eagerly peruse

a letter, which she now hand to Rose, say, with an air of triumph,

“read that, my dear.”



“good news, I hope, my dear mother, from your manner?” observe Lewis,

interrogatively.



“excellent news,” reply Mrs. Arundel gaily. “show your brother the

letter, Rose. oh! that good, kind Lady Lombard!” Rose do as she be

desire, but from the anxiety with which she scan her brother’s

countenance, as he hastily run his eye over the writing, it be evident

she doubt whether the effect the letter might produce upon he would

be altogether of an agreeable nature. nor be her suspicion unfounded,

for as he become acquainted with its content a storm-cloud gather

upon Lewis’s brow. the letter be as follows:--



“my dear Mrs. Arundel,--To assist the afflict, and to relieve the

unfortunate, as well by the influence of the rank and station which have

be graciously entrust to I, as by the judicious employment of such

pecuniary superfluity as the munificence of my poor dear late husband

have place I in a position to disburse, have always be my motto

through life. the many call of the numerous dependent on the

liberality of the late lament Sir Pinchbeck, with constant

application from the relative of his poor dear predecessor (the

girkin be a very large family, and some of the young branch have

turn out shocking pickle), reduce the charitable fund at my disposal

to a small sum than, from the noble character of my last lamented

husband’s will, may generally be suppose. I be, therefore, all the more

happy to be able to inform you that, owe to the too high estimation in

which my kind neighbour in and about Comfortown hold any recommendation

of mine, I can, should you determine on settle near our pretty little

town, promise you six pupil to begin with, and a prospect of many more

should youi method of impart instruction in the delightful science of

music realise the very high expectation raise by my eulogium on your

talent, vocal and instrumental. that such will be the case I cannot

doubt, from my recollection of the touching manner in which, when we

visit your sweet little cottage on our (alas! too happy) wedding trip,

you and your dear depart sang, at my request, that lovely thing, ‘La

ci darem la mano.’ (what a fine voice Captain Arundel have!) I dare say,

with such a good memory as your, you will remember how the late Sir

Pinchbeck observe that it put he in mind of the proud moment of

his life, when at St. George’s, Hanover Square, his friend, the very

Reverend the Dean of Dinnerton, make he the happy husband of the

relict of the late John Girkin. ah! my dear madam, we widow learn to

sympathise with misfortune; one do not survive two such man as the

late Mr. Girkin, though he be somewhat peppery at time, and the late

lament Sir Pinchbeck Lombard, in spite of his fidgety way and chronic

cough, without feel that a vale of tear be not desirable for a

permanency. if it would be any convenience to you when you part with

your cottage (I be look out for a tenant for it) to stay with I for

a week or ten day, I shall be happy to receive you, and would ask a few

influential family to hear you sing some evening, which might prove

useful to you. of course I cannot expect you to part with your daughter,

as she will so soon have to quit you (I mention she to my friend

Lady Babbycome, but she be provide with a governess), and wish you to

understand my invitation extend to she also.



“I be, dear Madam, ever your very sincere friend,



“Sarah Matilda Lombard.



“P.S.--Would your son like to go to Norfolk Island for fourteen year?

I think I know a way of send he free of expense. the climate be say

to produce a very beneficial effect on the british constitution; and

with a salary of sixty pound a year, and an introduction to the good

society the Island afford, a young man in your son’s circumstance

would scarcely be justify in refuse the post of junior secretary to

the governor.”



“be the woman mad?” exclaim Lewis impetuously, as he finish read

the forego letter, “or what right have she to insult we in this

manner?”



“insult we, my dear,” reply Mrs. Arundel quickly, disregard a

deprecatory look from Rose. “Lady Lombard have answer my note

inform she that I wish for musical pupil with equal kindness and

promptitude. mad, indeed! she be consider a very superior woman by

many people, I can assure you, and her generosity and good nature know

no bound.”



“perish such generosity!” be Lewis’s angry rejoinder. “be it not

bitterness enough to have one’s energy cramp, one’s free-will

fetter by the curse of poverty, but you must advertise our

wretchedness to the world, and put it in the power of a woman, whose

pride of purse and narrowness of mind stand forth in every line of that

hateful letter, to buy a right to insult we with her patronage? you

might at least have wait till you know you have no other alternative

left. what right have you to degrade _I_, by let yourself down to

sue for the charity of _any one?_”



“Dearest Lewis,” murmur Rose, imploringly, “remember it be mamma you

be speak to.”



“Rose, I do remember it; but it be the thought that it _be_ my mother,

my honoured father’s widow, who, by her own imprudence, to use the

mild term, have bring this insult upon we, that madden I.”



“but, Lewis,” interpose Mrs. Arundel, equally surprised and alarm

at this unexpected outburst, “I cannot understand what all this fuss

be about; I see no insult; on the contrary, Lady Lombard write as

kindly----”



an exclamation of ungovernable anger burst from Lewis, and he appear

on the point of lose all self-control, when Rose, catch his eye,

glance for a moment towards her father’s portrait. well do she read

the generous though fiery nature of he with whom she have to deal: no

soon do Lewis perceive the direction of her gaze, than, by a strong

effort, he check all further expression of his feeling, and turn

towards the window, stand apparently look out for some minute. at

length he say abruptly--



“Mother, you must forgive I; I be hot and impetuous, and all this have

take I so completely by surprise. after all, it be only my affection

for you and Rose which make I resent your patronise friend’s

impertinent benevolence; but the fact be, I hope and believe you have

be premature in ask her assistance. I have little doubt I shall

succeed in obtain a situation or employment of some kind, which will

be sufficiently lucrative to prevent the necessity of your either give

up the cottage, or be separate from Rose. I have write to Frere

about it, and expect to hear from he in a day or two.”



“my dear boy, would you have we live here in idleness and luxury, while

you be work yourself to death to enable we to do so?” say Mrs.

Arundel, her affection for her son overcome any feeling of anger which

his opposition to her pet scheme have excite.



“I do not see that the work need involve my death,” reply Lewis.

“perhaps,” he add, with a smile, “you would prefer my embrace our

Lady Patroness’s scheme of a fourteen year’ sojourn in Norfolk Island.

I think I could accomplish that object without troubling anybody: I

have only to propitiate the Home Office by abstract a few silver

spoons,--and Government, in its fatherly care, would send I there free

of expense, and probably introduce I to the good society the Island

afford, into the bargain.”



“poor dear Lady Lombard! I must confess that part of her letter be

rather absurd,” return Mrs. Arundel; “but we must talk more about this

plan of your, Lewis; I never can consent to it.”



“you both can and will, my dear mother,” reply Lewis, playfully but

firmly; “however, we will leave this matter in abeyance till I hear from

Frere.”



and thus, peace be restore, they sit down to breakfast forthwith,



Lewis feel thankful that he have restrain his anger ere it have lead

he to say word to his mother which he would have regret deeply

afterwards, and amply repay for any effort it might have cost he by

the bright smile and grateful pressure of the hand with which his sister

reward he. happy the man whose guardian angel assume the form of

such a sister and friend as Rose Arundel!



Rachel be spare the trouble of call she young master the follow

morning, as, when that worthy woman, animate with the desperate courage

of the leader of a forlorn hope, approach his room, determine to have

he up in spite of any amount of the language of modern Europe to which

she might be expose, she find the door open and the bird fly;

the fact be that Lewis and Faust be take a scamper across the

country, to their mutual delectation, and the alarming increase of their

respective appetite. moreover, Faust, in his ignorance of the Game Laws

and the Zoology of the land of his adoption, would persist in look

for a wolf in the preserve of Squire Tilbury, and while thus engage

could not resist the temptation of kill a hare, just by way of

keep his jaw in practice; owe to which little escapade he get his

master into a row with an underkeeper, who require first knock down

and then propitiate by a half-sovereign before he could be bring to

see the matter in a reasonable light.



this give a little interest and excitement to his morning ramble, and

Lewis return to breakfast in a high state of health and spirit. a

letter from his friend Frere await his arrival; it run as follows:--



“dear Lewis,--If you really mean what you say (and you be not the man I

take you to be if you don’t), I know of just the thing to suit you. the

pay be above your mark, so that’s all right; and as to the work--well,

it have its disagreeable, that’s not to be gainsay; but life be not

exactly a bed of rose--or, if it be, the thorn have get the start of

the flower nine time out of ten, as you will know before long, if you

have not find it out already. in these sort of matter (not that you

know anything about the matter yet, but I do, which be all the same) it

be half the battle to be first in the field; _ergo_, if £300 a year will

suit your complaint, get on the top of the first coach that will bring

you to town, and be with I in time for dinner. I have ask a man to

meet you, who know all about the thing I have in view for you. pray

remember I to Mrs. Arundel and your sister, although I have not as

yet the pleasure of their personal acquaintance. don’t get into the

doleful, and fancy yourself a victim; depend upon it, you be nothing

of the kind. Mutton on table at half-past six, and Faust be specially

invite to eat the bone.



“so good-bye till we meet.



“your for ever and a day,



“Richard Frere.”



“there!” say Lews, hand the epistle to his mother, “now that’s

something like a letter: Frere’s a thorough good fellow, every inch of

he, and a real true friend into the bargain. I’ll take whatever it be

he have find for I, if it be even to black shoe all day; you and rose

shall remain here, and Lady Lombard may go to----”



“three hundred a year! why, my dear Lewis, it’s quite a little fortune

for you!” interrupt Mrs. Arundel delightedly.



“I wonder what the situation can be?” say Rose, regard her brother

with a look of affection and regret, as she think how his proud spirit

and sensitive nature unfit he to contend with the calculate policy

and keen-eyed selfishness of worldly man. Rose have of late be her

father’s confidante, and even advis, in some of his matter

of business, and have observe the tone of civil indifference or

condescend familiarity which the denizen of Vanity Fair assume

towards man of broken fortune.



“yes,” resume Mrs. Arundel, “as you say, Rose, what can it be?

something in one of the Government office, perhaps.”



“Curator of Madame Tussaud’s exhibition, and Master of the Robes to the

waxwork figure, more likely,” reply Lewis, laugh. “or what say

you to a civic appointment? mace-bearer to the Lord Mayor, for instance;

though I believe it require a seven year’ apprenticeship to eat

turtle soup and venison to entitle one to such an honour. seriously,

though, if Frere wish I to take it, I will, whatever it may be, after

all his kindness to I, and Faust too. Faust, _mein kind!_ here’s an

invitation for you, and a mutton bone in prospect--hold up your head, my

dog, you be come to honour.” and thus Lewis rattle on, partly because

the ray of sunshine that gleam on his darken fortune have suffice

to raise his naturally buoyant spirit, and partly to prevent the

possibility of his mother offer any effectual resistance to his

wish--or, more properly speak, his resolution--to devote himself to

the one object of support she and Rose in their present position.



it be well for the success of his scheme that Mrs. Arundel have, on the

strength of the £300 per annum, allow her imagination to depict some

distinguished appointment (of what nature she have not the most distant

notion), which, with innumerable prospective advantage, be about to be

submit to her son’s consideration. dazzle by this brilliant phantom,

she allow herself to be persuade to write a civil rejection of Lady

Lombard’s patronage, and take leave of her son with an April face, in

which, after a short struggle, the smile have it all their own way.



Rose neither laugh nor cry, but she cling to her brother’s neck

(stand on tiptoe to do it, for she be so good, every bit of she,

that nature could not afford to make a very tall woman out of such

precious material), and whisper to he, in her sweet, silvery voice,

if he should not quite like this appointment, or if he ever for a

moment wish to change his plan, how very happy it would make she to be

allow to go out and earn money by teaching, just for a few year, till

they grow rich; and Lewis press she to his heart, and love she so

well for say it, ay, and mean it too, that he feel he would die

rather than let she do it. and so two people who care for each other

more than for all the world beside, part, have, after a three year’

separation, enjoy each other’s society for two day. not that

there be anything remarkable in this, it be a notorious though

inexplicable fact that the more we like people, the less we be certain

to see of they.



we have weary our brain in the vain endeavour to find a reason for

this phenomenon, and should feel greatly indebted to any philosophical

individual who would write a treatise on “the perversity of remote

contingency, and the aggravating nature of thing in general,” whereby

some light might be throw upon this obscure subject. we recommend the

matter more particularly to the notice of the British Association of

Science.



and having seat Lewis on the box of a real good old-fashioned stage

coach (alas! that, Dodo-like, the genus should be all but extinct, and

nothing go, nowadays, but those wonderful, horrible, convenient,

stupendous nuisance, railroad; rattle, with their “resonant

steam-eagle,” as Mrs. Browning call the locomotive), with Faust

between his knee, apparently study with the air of a connoisseur the

“get up” of a spanking team of grey, we will leave he to prosecute his

journey to London; reserve for another chapter the adventure which

befell he in the modern Babylon.









CHAPTER III.--IN which RICHARD FRERE mends the back of ST. THOMAS

aquina, and the reader be INTRODUCED to CHARLEY LEICESTER.



Richard Frere live in a moderate-sized house in a street in the

vicinity of Bedford Square. it be not exactly a romantic situation,

neither be it aristocratic nor fashionable; but it be respectable and

convenient, and therefore have Frere choose it; for he be a practical

man in the proper sense of the term--by which we do not mean that he

think James Watt great than Shakespeare, but that he possess that

rare quality, good common sense, and regulate his conduct by it; and

as in the course of this veracious history we shall hear and see a good

deal of Richard Frere, it may tend to elucidate matter if we tell the

reader at once who and what he be, and “in point of fact,” as Cousin

Phoenix would say, all about he.



like Robinson Crusoe, Richard Frere be bear of respectable parent. his

father be the representative of a family who in Saxon day would have

be term “Franklins”--_i.e_., a superior class of yeoman, possess

of certain broad acre, which they farm themselves. the grandfather

frere have, in a moment of ambition, send his eld son to Eton,

be make aware of his error when the young hopeful on leave school

declare his intention of go to college, and utterly repudiate

the plough-tail. have a very decide will of his own, and a zealous

supporter in his mother, to college he went, and thence to a special

pleader, to read for the bar. be really clever, and determine

to prove to his father the wisdom of the course he have adopt,

sufficiently industrious also, he get into very tolerable practice. on

one occasion, having be retain in a well-know contested peerage

case, by his acuteness and eloquence he gain his cause, and at the

same time the affection of the successful disputant’s young sister.

his noble client very ungratefully oppose the match, but love and law

together prove too powerful for his lordship. one fine evening the

young lady make a moonlight flitting of it, and before twelve o’clock

on the follow morning have become Mrs. Frere. within a year from this

event Richard Frere make his appearance at the cradle terminus of the

railroad of life. when he be six year old, his father, after speak

for three hour, in a cause in which he be leader, more eloquently than

he have ever before do, break a blood-vessel, and be carry home a

die man. his wife love he as woman alone can love--for his sake

she have give up friend, fortune, rank, and the pleasure and

embellishment of life; for his sake she now give up life itself. Grief

do not always kill quickly, yet Richard’s ninth birthday be spend

among stranger. his noble uncle, who feel that by neglect his sister

on her death-bed he have do his duty to his pedigree handsomely, and

might now give way to family affection, send the orphan to school at

Westminster, and even allow he to run wild at Bellefield Park during

the holiday.



the _agrémen_ of a public school, act on a sensitive disposition,

give a tone of bitterness to the boy’s mind, which would have render

he a misanthrope but for a strong necessity for love something (the

only inheritance his poor mother have leave he), which develop itself

in attachment to unsympathise silkworm and epicurean white mouse

during his early boyhood, and in a _bizarre_ but untire benevolence

in after-life, lead he to take endless trouble for the old and

unattractive, and to devote himself, body and soul, to forward the

interest of those who be fortunate enough to possess his friendship.

of the latter class Lewis Arundel have be one since the day when Frere,

a stripling of seventeen, fight his rival, the cock of the school, for

having thrash the new-comer in return for his accidental transgression

of some sixth-form etiquette. ten year have pass over their head

since that day: the cock of the school be a judge in Ceylon, weigh

sixteen stone, and have a wife and six little child; Richard Frere be

secretary to a scientific institution, with a salary of £400 a year, and

a general knowledge of everything of which other people be ignorant;

and little Lewis Arundel be stand six foot high, wait to be let

in at the door of his friend’s house, in the respectable and convenient

street near Bedford Square, to which he and Faust have find their way,

after a prosperous journey by the coach, on the roof of which we leave

they at the end of the last chapter.



a woman ugly enough to frighten a horse, and old enough for _anything_,

reply in the affirmative to Lewis’s inquiry whether her master be at

home, and lead the way upstairs, glance suspiciously at Faust as she

do so. on reach the first landing she tap at the door; a full,

rich, but somewhat gruff voice shout “come in,” and Lewis, pass his

ancient conductress, enter.



“what, Lewis, old boy! how be you? don’t touch I, I cann’t shake hand,

I’m all over paste; I have be mend the back of two of the old

father that I pick up, dirt cheap, at a bookstall as I be come

home to-day: one of they be a real _editio princeps_--Why, man, how you

be grow! be that Faust? come here, dog--what a beauty! ah! you brute,

keep your confounded nose out of the paste-pot, do! I must give Aquinas

another dab yet. sit down, man, if you can find a chair--bundle those

book under the table. there we be.”



the speaker, who, as the reader have probably conjecture, be none

other than Mr. Richard Frere, present at that moment as singular an

appearance as any gentleman not an Ojibbeway Indian, or other natural

curiosity for public exhibition in the good city of London, need to do.

his apparent age be somewhat under thirty. his face would have be

singularly ugly but for three redeem point--a high, intellectual

forehead; full, restless blue eye, beam with intelligence; and a

bright benevolent smile, which disclose a brilliant set of white, even

tooth, compensate for the disproportioned width of the mouth which

contain they. his hair and whisker, of a rich brown, hang in elf

lock about his face and head, which be somewhat too large for his

height; his chest and shoulder be also disproportionately broad,

give he an appearance of great strength, which indeed he possess.

he be attire in a chintz dressing-gown that have once rejoice in a

pattern of gaudy colour, but be now reduce to a neutral tint of (we

may as well confess it at once) London smoke. he be, moreover, for the

great convenience of the paste operation, seat cross-legged on the

floor, amidst a hecatomb of ponderous volume.



“I receive your letter this morning,” begin Lewis, “and, as you see,

lose no time in be with you; and now what be it you have hear of,

frere? but first let I thank you----”



“thank I!” be the reply, “for what? I have do nothing yet, except

write a dozen line to tell you to take a dusty journey, and leave

green tree and nightingale for smoke and bustle--nothing very kind in

that, be there? just look at the dog’s-ear--St. Augustine’s, I mean,

not Faust’s.”



“don’t tease I, there’s a good fellow,” return Lewis; “I’m not in a

humour for jest at present. I have go through a good deal in

one way or other since you and I last meet, and be no long the

light-hearted boy you know I, but a man, and well-nigh a desperate

one.”



“ay!” rejoin Frere, “that’s the style of thing, be it? yes; I know

all about it. I meet Kirschberg the other day, with a beard like a cow’s

tail, and he tell I that Gretchen have bolt with the Baron.”



“never mention her name, if you would not drive I mad,” exclaim

Lewis, spring from his chair and pace the room impatiently. his

friend regard he attentively for a moment, and then uncross his

leg, and mutter to himself that he have get the cramp, and should

make a shocking bad Turk, rise, approach Lewis, and lay his hand on

his shoulder, say gravely--



“listen to I, Lewis: you trust, and have be deceive; and, by a not

unnatural revulsion of feeling, your faith in man’s honour and woman’s

constancy be for the time be destroy; and just at the very moment

when you most require the assistance of your old friend, and

the determination to gain new one, you dislike and despise your

fellow-creature, and be at war in your heart with society. now this

must not be, and at the risk of pain you, I be go to tell you the

truth.”



“I know what you would say,” interrupt Lewis vehemently: “you would

tell I that my affection be misplace--that I love a girl beneath I

in mind and station--that I trust a man whom I deem my friend, but

who, with a specious exterior, be a cold-hearted, design villain. it

be so; I own it; I see it _now_, when it be too late; but I do not see

it at the time when the knowledge might have avail I. and why may not

this happen again? there be but one way to prevent it: I will avoid the

perfidious sex--except Rose, no woman shall ever----”



“my dear boy, don’t talk such rubbish,” interpose his friend; “there

be plenty of right-minded, lovable woman in the world, I don’t doubt,

though I cann’t say I have much to do with they, see that they be not

usually addict to practical science, and therefore don’t come in my

way--household angel, with their wing clip, and their manner and

their drapery modernise, but with all the brightness and purity of

heaven still linger about them,--that’s my notion of woman as they

should be, and as I believe many be, despite your having be jilt by

as arrant a little coquette as ever I have the luck to behold; and as to

the Baron, it would certainly be a satisfaction to kick he well; but we

cann’t obtain all we wish for in this life. what be you grin at? you

don’t mean to say you _have_ polish he off?”



in reply, Lewis draw his left arm out of his coat, and roll up his

shirt-sleeve above the elbow, expose to view a newly-heal wound in

the fleshy part of his arm, then say quietly, “we fight with small

sword in a ring form by the student; we be twenty minute at it;

he mark I as you see; at length I succeed in disarm he--in the

struggle he fall, and place my foot upon his neck and my sword point

to his heart, I force he to confess his treachery, and beg his hateful

life of I before they all.”



Frere’s face grow dark. “duel!” he say. “I think your principle

would have preserve you from that vice--I thought----”



a growl from Faust, whose quick ear have detect a footstep on the

stair, interrupt he, and in another moment a voice exclaim,

“hello, Frere! where be you, man?” and the speaker, without wait for

an answer, open the door and enter.



the new-comer be a fashionably-dress young man, with a certain air

about he as if he be somebody, and know it--he be good-look,

have dark hair, most desirably curl whisker; and, though he be in a

morning costume, be evidently “get up” regardless of expense.



he open his large eye and stare with a look of languid wonder at

Lewis, then, turn to Frere, he say, “ah! I do not know you be

engage, Richard, or I would have allow your old lady to announce I

in due form; as it be, I think, in my philanthropy, to save she a

journey upstairs be a good deed, for she be get a little touch in

the wind. may I ask,” he continue, glance at Lewis’s bare arm, “be

you literally, and not figuratively, bleed your friend?”



“not exactly,” reply Frere, laugh. “but you must know each other:

this be my particular friend, Lewis Arundel, whom I be tell you

of,--Lewis, my cousin Charles Leicester, Lord Ashford’s young son.”



“bad luck,” reply the gentleman thus introduce; “young son be

one of those unaccountable mistake of nature which it require an

immense amount of faith to acquiesce in with proper orthodoxy: the

popular definition of a young son’s portion, ‘a good set of tooth, and

nothing to eat,’ show the absurdity of the thing. where do you find any

other animal in such a situation? Where----But perhaps we have scarcely

time to do the subject proper justice at present; I have some faint

recollection of your having ask I to dine at half-past six, on the

strength of which I cut short my canter in the park, and lose a chance

of inspect a prize widow, whom Sullivan have mark down for I!”



“why, you don’t mean to say it be as late as that?” exclaim Frere.

“Thomas Aquinas have take long to splice than I be aware of; to be

sure, his back be dreadfully shatter. excuse I half a minute; I’ll

just wash the paste off my hand, make myself decent, and be with you in

no time.” as he speak he leave the room.



“what a life for a reasonable be to lead!” observe Leicester,

fling himself back in Frere’s reading-chair. “now that fellow be as

happy with his paste-pot as I should be if some benevolent individual in

the Fairy Tale and Good Genius line be to pay my debt and marry I to

an heiress with £10,000 a year. an inordinate affection for book will

be that man’s destruction. you have know he some year, I think, Mr.

Arundel?”



Lewis reply in the affirmative, and Leicester continued--



“don’t you perceive that he be greatly alter? he stoop like an old

man, sir; his eye be get weak,--it’s an even chance whether he be

shave or not; he look upon brush as superfluity, and eschew

bear’ grease entirely, not to mention a very decide objection to the

operation of the hair-cutter; then the clothe he wears,--where he

contrive to get such thing I cann’t conceive, unless they come out of

Monmouth Street, and then they would be well cut; but the bad of it

be, he have no proper feeling about it,--perfectly callous!” he sigh,

and then resume. “it be last Saturday, I think,-- ’pon my word, you

will scarcely believe it, but it’s true, I do assure you: I have give my

horse to the groom, and be lounge by the Serpentine, with Egerton of

the Guards, and Harry Vain, who be about the well dress man in London,

a little after five o’clock, and the park as full as it could hold, when

who should I see, stride along like a postman among the swell, but

Master Richard Frere! and how do you suppose he be dress? we’ll begin

at the top, and take he downwards: Imprimis, a shocking bad hat, set on

the back of his head, after the fashion of the _he_ peasant in a

pastoral chorus at the Opera House; a seedy black coat, with immense

flap, and a large octavo edition of St. Senanus, or some of they,

stick out of the pocket; a white choker villainously tie, which

look as if he have sleep in it the night before; a most awful

waistcoat, black-and-white plaid trouser guiltless of strap, worst

stocking, and a clumsy specie of shooting shoe; and because all this

be not enough, he have a large umbrella, although the day be lovely,

and a basket in his hand, with the neck of a black bottle peep out of

it, contain port wine, which it seem he be convey to a

superannuated nurse of his who hang out at Kensington. I turn my head

away, hope that as he be stare intently at something in the water,

he might not recognise I; but it be of no use. just as Egerton, who

do not know he, exclaim, ‘here’s a natural curiosity! do you ever

see such a Guy in your life?’ he look up and see I: in another minute

his great paw be lay upon my shoulder, and I be accost thus:--‘Ah,

Leicester! you here? just look at that duck with the grey bill; that’s a

very rare bird indeed; it come from Central Asia. I do not

know they have a speciman in this country; it be one of the Teal

family,--_Querquedula Glocitans_, the bimaculate teal,--so call from

two bright spot near the eye. look, you can see they now,--very rare

bird,--very rare bird indeed!’ and so he run on, till suddenly

recollect that he be in a hurry, he shake my hand till my arm ache

(drop the umbrella on Vain’s toe as he do so) and post off,

leave I to explain to my companion how it be possible such an

apparition should have be see in any place except Bedlam. Richard

Frere’s a right good fellow, and I have an immense respect for he, but

he be a very try relative to meet in Hyde Park during the London

season.”



having deliver himself of this sentiment, the Honourable Charles, or,

as he be more commonly denominate by his intimate, Charley Leicester,

lean back in his chair, apparently overcome by the recollection his

tale have excite, in which position he remain, cherish his

whisker, till their host reappear.



the dinner be exactly such a meal as one gentleman of moderate income

should give to two other, not particularly gourmand; that be, there

be enough to eat and drink, and everything be excellent of its kind;

one of those mysterious individual who exist only in large city and

fairy tale having provide the entire affair, and wait at table like

a duke’s butler into the bargain. when the meal be conclude, and the

good genius have vanish, after place before they a most invite

magnum of claret, and say “Yessir” for the last time, Frere turn to

Lewis, and observe, “by the way, Arundel, I dare say you be anxious to

hear about this appointment, or situation, or whatever the correct term

may be,--the thing I mention to you. my cousin Charles can tell you

all there be to hear concern the matter, for the good folk be his

friend, and not mine; indeed, I scarcely know they.”



thus appeal to, Charley Leicester fill a bumper of claret, seat

himself in an easy attitude, examine his well-turn leg and

unexceptionable boot with a full appreciation of their respective

merit, and then sip his wine and address Lewis, begin as

follows:--



“well, Mr. Arundel, this be the true state of the case, as far as I know

about it. you may perhaps be acquaint with the name of General Grant?”



Lewis reply in the negative, and Leicester continued--



“ah! yes, I forget, you have be on the continent for some time;

however, the General be member for A--------, and a man very well know

about town. now, he happen to be a sort of cousin of mine--my mother,

Lady Ashford, be a Grant; and for that reason, or some other, the

General have take a liking to I, and generously afford I his

countenance and protection. so, when I have nothing well to do, I go

and vegetate at Broadhurst, an old ramble place in H------shire, that

have be in his family since the flood--splendid shooting, though; he

preserve strictly, and transport a colony of poacher every year. I

be sit with he the other day, when he suddenly begin ask about

Frere, where he be, what he be do, and all the rest of it. so I

relate that he be secretary to a learn society, and be popularly

suppose to know more than all the _scavan_ in Europe and the Dean of

Dustandstir put together. whereupon he begin mutter, ‘Unfortunate!--

he be just the person--learn man--good family--well connected--most

unlucky!’ ‘what’s the matter, general?’ say I. ‘a very annoying affair,

Charles--a very great responsibility have devolve upon I, a matter of

extreme moment--clear;£ 12,000 a year, and a long minority.’

‘Has;£12,000 a year devolve upon you, sir?’ return I. ‘I wish Dame

Fortune would try I with some such responsibility.’ in reply he give I

the following account:--



“it appear that one of his most intimate friend and neighbour,

an old baronet, have lately depart this life; the title and estate

descend to a grandson, a minor, and General Grant have be appoint

guardian. all this be bad enough, but the bad be yet to come--he have

promise his die friend that the boy should reside in his house. now

it seem that, as a sort of set-off against his luck in come into the

world with a gold spoon in his mouth, the say boy be bear with even

less brain than usually fall to the lot of Fortune’s favourite--in

plain English, he be half an idiot. accordingly, the General’s first

care be to provide the young bear with a leader, and in his own mind

he have fix on Frere, whom he know by reputation, as the man, and be

grievously disappoint when he find he be bespoke. I suggest that,

although he could not undertake the duty himself, he might possibly know

some one who could, and offer to ascertain. the General jump at the

idea--_hinc illae lachrymae_--hence the whole business.”



“just as I receive your letter,” begin Frere, “Leicester come in to

make the inquiry. in fact the thing fit like the advertisement in

_the Times_--‘Wants a situation as serious footman in a pious family;

wage not so much an object as moral cultivation.’--‘Wanted in a pious

family, a decidedly serious footman, wage moderate, but the spiritual

advantage unexceptionable.’--‘If A. B. be not utterly perfidious, and

lose to all the noble feeling of humanity, he will forward a small

enclosure to C. D. at Mrs. Bantam’s, oilman, Tothill Street.’--‘A. B. be

desirous of communicate with C. D.; if forgive, he will never do

so no more, at any price.’ you may see lot of they in the advertising

sheet; they be like angry woman, sure to answer one another if you

leave they alone. and now, what do you think of the notion, Lewis?”



“why, there be one or two point to be consider,” reply Lewis.

“in the first place, what would be the duty of the situation? in the

second, be I fit to perform they? in the third---- but, however, I

have name the most important.”



“as to the duty,” reply Leicester, “I should fancy they would be

anything but overpowering--rather in the nothing-to-do-and-a-man-to

help-you style than otherwise. all the General say be, ‘mind, I must

have a _gentleman_, a person who be accustomed to the rank of life in

which he will have to move--he must be a young man, or he will not

readily fall into my habit and wish. as he be to live in my family,

he must be altogether presentable. his chief duty will be to endeavour

to develop my ward’s mind, and fit he for the position which his rank

and fortune render it incumbent on he to occupy.’ to which speech,

deliver in a very stately manner, I merely say, ‘yes, exactly;’ a

style of remark to which no exception could reasonably be take, unless

on the score of want of originality.”



“be the General in town, Charley?” ask Frere.



“yes; he be wait about this very business,” be the reply.



“well then, the good thing will be for you to take Arundel there

to-morrow morning, and bring they face to face; that be the way to do

business, depend upon it.”



“will not that be give Mr. Leicester a great deal of trouble?”

 suggest Lewis.



“not at all, my dear sir,” reply Leicester, good-naturedly; “I’ll call

for you at twelve o’clock, and drive you up to Park Crescent in my cab.

having once take the matter in hand, I be anxious to bring it to a

satisfactory conclusion--besides, a man must lunch, and the General’s

pale ale be by no mean to be despise.”



at this moment the servant enter, and hand Frere a card, inform

he the gentleman wish to speak with he.



“tell he to walk in. say that I have one or two friend take wine

with I, and that I hope he will join we. now, Lewis, I will introduce

you to an original--you know he, Leicester--Marmaduke Grandeville.”



“_de_ Grandeville, my dear fellow--don’t forget the _De_ unless you

intend he to call you out. what, be ‘the Duke’ come? yes, I certainly

do know he, _rather_--just a very little.” then, speak in an

affected yet pompous tone, he continued--“Ar--really--yes--_the_ De

Grandevilles--very old Yorkshire family in the West Riding--come in with

the Conqueror.”



“that’s exactly like he,” exclaim Frere, laugh. “Hush! here he

be.”



as he speak the door open slowly, and a head with a hat on first

appear, then follow a pair of broad shoulder, and lastly the whole

man enter bodily. draw himself up with a stiff military air, he

close the door, and slightly raise his hat, shade his eye with it,

while he reconnoitre the company.



“there, come along in, man; you know Charles Leicester--this be an old

Westminster friend of mine, Lewis Arundel: now here’s a clean glass;

take some claret.”



the individual thus address make the slight possible acknowledgment

on be introduce to Lewis, favour Leicester with a military salute,

lay a large heavy hand adorn with a ring of strange and antique

fashion patronisingly on Frere’s shoulder, pour himself out a glass of

wine, and then wheel round majestically to the fire, and place

his glass on the chimney-piece, face the company with an air equally

dignified and mysterious, thereby afford Lewis a good opportunity of

examine his appearance. he be above the middle height and powerfully

make, so much so as to give his clothe, which be fashionably cut, the

air of be a size too small for he. he wear his coat button tightly

across his chest, which he carry well forward after the manner of a

cuirassier; indeed, his whole gait and bear be intensely military.

his age might be two or three-and-thirty; he have dark hair and whisker,

good though rather coarse feature, and a more ruddy complexion

than usually fall to the lot of a Londoner. after sip his wine

leisurely, he fold his arm with an air of importance, and fix his

eye significantly on the person address, say, “Ar--Leicester, how be

it Lord Ashford happen to be out of town just now?”



“’pon my word, I don’t know,” be the reply; “my father be not usually

in the habit of explain his movement, particularly to such an

unimportant individual as myself. I have a vague idea Bellefield write

to beg he to come down for something--he’s at the Park, at all event.”



“Ar--yes, you must not be surprised if you see he in Belgrave Square

to-morrow; _we_ want he; he’s be--ar--write to to-night.”



“how the deuce do you know that?” inquire Frere. “I never can make out

where you contrive to pick up those thing.”



“who be _we?_” inquire Lewis in an undertone of Leicester, near whom

he be seat. “do Mr. Grandeville belong to the government?”



“not really, only in imagination,” be the reply. “_we_ mean himself

and the other Whig magnate of the land, in this instance.”



“then you do not really know grave be dead?” continue Grandeville.



“I be not quite certain that I even know he be alive,” reply

Leicester. “who be he?”



a significant smile, say plainly, “don’t fancy I be go to believe

you as ignorant as you pretend,” float across Grandeville’s face ere

he continue: “you need not be so cautious with I, I can assure you.

the moment I hear grave be give over, I write--ar--that be, I give

the hint to a man who write to Lord Bellefield to say the county be

his; he have only to declare himself, and he would walk over the course.”



“extremely kind of you, I’m sure,” reply Leicester; then turn to

Lewis, while Grandeville be make some mysterious communication to

frere, he add in an undertone, “that’s a lie from begin to end.

I have a note from Bellefield (he’s my _frere aîné_, you know) this

morning, in which he say, ‘our county member have be dangerously ill,

but be now well;’ and he add, ‘some of the fool about here want I

to put up for the county if he pop oft, but I be not go to thrust

my neck into the collar to please any of they.’ Bell’s too lazy by half

for an M.P., and small blame to he either.” frere having listen to

De Grandeville’s whisper communication, appear for a moment

embarrassed, and then observe--but an adventure so important as that to

which his observation relate deserve a fresh chapter.









CHAPTER IV.--LEWIS enlists under a “CONQUERING HERO,” and start ON A

dangerous expedition.



“I should be happy to join you, but you see I be engaged to my friend

here,” observe Frere to Grandeville.



“you would never dream of stand on ceremony with I, Frere, I hope,”

 interpose Lewis.



“why should we not all go together?” inquire Frere; “the more the

merry, particularly if it should come to a shindy.”



“what’s the nature of the entertainment?” ask Leicester.



“tell they, De Grandeville,” say Frere, look hard at his cousin, as

he slightly emphasise the _de_.



“Ar--well, you willn’t let it go far, I’m sure, but there’s a meeting

to be hold to-night at a kind of Mechanics’ Institute, a place I and one

or two other influential man have have our eye on for some time past,

where they promulgate very unsound opinion; and we have be only

wait our opportunity to give the thing a check, and show they that

the land gentry be unite in their determination not to tolerate

sedition, or in fact anything of the sort; and I have have a hint from

a very sure quarter (I walk straight from Downing Street here) that

to-night they be to muster in force--a regular showoff; so a party

of we be go to be present and watch the proceeding, and if

there should be seditious language use, we shall make a decided

demonstration, let they feel the power they be array themselves

against, and the utter madness of provoke such an unequal struggle.”



“then we have a very fair chance of a row, I should hope,” interpose

Lewis eagerly, his eye sparkle with excitement; “ ’twill put we in

mind of old sixth-form day, eh, Frere?”



“Leicester, what say you? do you mind dirty your kid glove in the

good cause?” ask Frere.



“there be no time to put on an old coat, I suppose?” be the reply. “a

break head I don’t mind occasionally, it give one a new sensation; but

to sacrifice good clothe verge too closely on the wantonly extravagant

to suit either my pocket or my principle.”



“I will lend you one of mine,” return Frere.



“Heaven forfend!” be the horrified rejoinder. “I have too much regard

for the feeling of my family, let alone those of my tailor, to dream of

such a thing for a minute. only suppose anything be to happen to I,

just see how it would read in the paper: ‘the body of the unfortunate

deceased be envelop in a threadbare garment of mysterious fashion;

in the enormous pocket which undermine its voluminous skirt be

discover, amongst other curiosity, the leg-bone of a fossil

Iguanodon.’”



“gently there!” cry Frere; “how some people be give to exaggeration!

because I happen accidentally one day to pull out two of the vertebræ

of----”



“Ar--if you’ll allow I to interrupt you,” begin Grandeville, “I don’t

think you need apprehend any display of physical force; our object be,

if possible, to produce a moral effect--in fact, by weight of character

and position, to impress they with a deep sense of the power and

resource of the upper class.”



“still a good licking be a very effectual argument where other mean of

persuasion fail. I have great faith in fist,” say Frere.



“Ar--in the event of our be oblige to have recourse to such extreme

measure, I must impress upon you the necessity of discipline,” return

Grandeville. “look to I for order, ar--I be not exactly--ar--regular

profession--ar--military, though when I be at the headquarters of

the ----th in Ireland last year, they do I the honour to say that I

have naturally a very unusual strategic turn--a good officer spoil--ha!

ha!”



“I always think you have a sort of life-guardsman-like look about you,”

 say Leicester, with a sly glance at the other. “you often hear of

a man be one of ‘nature’s gentleman,’ now I should call you one of

‘nature’s guardsman.’”



“Ar--yes, not so bad that,” return Grandeville, the possibility of

Leicester’s meaning to laugh at he faintly occur to he, and be

instantly reject as utterly inconceivable. “here, sir,” he continue,

turn abruptly to Lewis, “feel my arm; there’s muscle for you! I don’t

say it by way of a boast, but there be not such an arm as that in her

Majesty’s ~*--th; there be not one of their crack man that could hold

up so heavy a weight as I could, for I try the thing when I be over

at Killandrum last autumn, and beat they all.”



“at what time do your entertainment commence, may I ask?” inquire

Leicester.



“Ar--I promise to join the other at a quarter before nine; the meeting

be to commence at nine, and we shall have some little way to walk.”



“then the soon we be off the well,” say Frere. “but you expect a

reinforcement, do you?”



“Ar--some man, some of our set, you understand, very first-rate fellow

who have the cause at heart, have agree to come and carry the matter

through with a high hand. failure might produce very serious result,

but the right measure have be take; I drop a hint at the Horse

Guards.”



“I suppose I have well not take Faust,” observe Lewis. “if there be a

crowd he will get his toe trodden on, and he be apt to show fight under

these circumstance. may I leave he here?”



“yes, certainly,” reply Frere; “that be, if you can persuade he to

stay quietly, and bind he over to keep the peace till we return.”



“that be soon accomplish,” rejoin Lewis, and call the dog to he,

he drop a glove on the floor and utter some german word of command,

when the well-train animal immediately lay down with the glove

between his huge paw.



“caution your old lady not to interfere with the glove,” he continue,

“or Faust will assuredly throttle she.”



“what, be he touchy on that head?” inquire Grandeville, poise himself

on one leg while he endeavour to kick the glove away with the other. a

growl like that of an angry tiger, and the display of a set of tooth of

which a dentist or a crocodile might equally have be proud, induce

he to draw back his foot with rather more celerity than be altogether

in keep with the usual dignity of his movement.



“the dog have not such a bad notion of produce a moral impression,”

 say Leicester, laugh. “don’t you think he might be useful to we

to-night?”



“Ar--now, there be nothing I should like well than to take that glove

away from he,” observe Grandeville, cast a wither glance on

Faust. “Ar--I wish I have time.”



“I wish you have,” return Lewis dryly.



“why, do you think it would be so mighty difficult?” retort

Grandeville.



“when Rudolph Arnheim, a fellow-student of mine, try the experiment, I

have some trouble in choke Faust off before the dog have quite throttle

he,” be the reply. “Rudolph be no child, and have a heavy wager

depend on it.”



“Ar--well, I cann’t see any great difficulty in the thing, but it depend

on a man’s nerve, of course. now, be we ready?”



so say, Marmaduke Grandeville, Esq., place his hat firmly on his

head, and with the gait of a heavy dragoon and the air of a conquering

hero, march nobly out of the apartment. Leicester hold back to allow

Lewis to follow, then draw Frere on one side, he said--



“Richard, I like your friend Arundel; he be a manly, intelligent young

fellow, much too good to be bear-leader to a half-witted cub like this

precious ward of old Grant’s; and if I be as rich as I be poor, I

would do something well for he. now, if he have but a few hundred to

go on with, matrimony would be the dodge for he. with such a face and

figure as his, he might secure no end of a prize in the wife market;

there’s a thoroughbred look about he which would tell with woman

amazingly.”



“he have all the making of a fine character in he,” reply Frere, “but

he be proud and impetuous; and pride and poverty be ill companion,

though they often go together.”



“do they?” reply Leicester. “well, I be poor enough for anything, as

a very large majority of the metropolitan tradesman know to their cost,

but, upon my word, I be not proud. any man may give I a good dinner,

and I’ll eat it,--good wine, and I’ll drink it; I never refuse a stall

at the Opera, though the bone may belong to an opulent tallow-chandler;

and there be not a woman in England with £150,000 that I would not marry

to-morrow if she would have I. no! I may be poor, but you cann’t call I

proud.” and place his arm through that of his cousin, they descend

to the street together, and rejoin Lewis and his companion.









CHAPTER V.--IS of a DECIDEDLY WARLIKE CHARACTER.



the place of rendezvous for the “gallant defender of the british

constitution,” as Leicester have designate the little party, be a cigar

shop in the immediate vicinity of the building in which the meeting be

to be hold. on their arrival they perceive that the shop be already

occupy by several young man, who be lounge over the counter,

bandy jest and compliment with a ringlete young lady, who appear

thoroughly self-possess and quite equal to the part she have to

perform, have through all her pretty coquetry a shrewd eye to

business, and reserve she most fascinating smile for the most

inveterate smoker.



as Grandeville enter the shop, which he do with a most lordly and

dignified air, he be welcome with general acclamation.



“all hail, Macbeth!” exclaim a thin young man, with a white greatcoat

and a face to match, throw himself into a tragedy attitude.



“most noble commander!” begin another of the group. “most illustrious De

Grandeville! how is----”



“your anxious mother?” interrupt a short, muscular little fellow, with

as rich a brogue as ever claim Cork for its county.



“Hush! be quiet, Pat; we have no time for nonsense now, man,” cry a

tall youth with a profusion of light curl hair, a prominent hooked

nose, a merry smile, and a pair of wicked grey eye, which appear

to possess the faculty of look in every direction at once. “you be

late, De Grandeville,” he add, come forward.



“Ar--no, sir; five minute good by the Horse Guards. Ar--I should have

be here soon, but I have be--ar--recruit, you see. Mr. Bracy,

Mr. Frere, Mr. Arundel--you know Leicester?”



“delighted to see such an addition to our force,” reply Bracy,

bow; then shake hand with Leicester, he add in an undertone,

“walk with I when we start; I have a word to say to you.” Leicester

nod in assent, and then proceed to accost other of the party with

whom he be acquaint.



“Ar--now, gentleman, will you please to attend to order?” begin

Grandeville, raise his voice.



“hear, hear!” cry the pale young man, faintly.



“we’ll do it betther if you’d be houldin’ yer tongue, maybe,” interpose

the hero from Cork, who, be interpret, be none other

than Lieutenant McDermott of the Artillery, believe by the

Commander-in-chief to be at that very moment on duty at Woolwich.



“Ar--you be to divide yourself into three or four body.”



“faith, we must get blind drunk, and see double twice over then, before

we can do that,” remark the son of Erin argumentatively.



“now, Paddy, be quiet,” say Bracy, soothingly; “you know you never get

so far in your arithmetic as vulgar fraction, so you cann’t be suppose

to understand the matter.”



a somewhat forcible rejoinder be drown by Grandeville, who continue,

in his most sonorous tone: “Ar--you will then proceed to the hall

of meeting, and make your way quietly to the right side, as near the

platform as possible. there--keep together, and attract as little

attention as you can, and Mr. Bracy will transmit such direction to you

as circumstance may render advisable. do you all clearly understand?”



a general shout of assent, vary by a muttered “not in the slight

degree,” from McDermott, be follow by the order, “then march!” and in

another moment the party be _en route_. the pale young man, who be

in his secret soul rather alarmed than otherwise, have attach himself

firmly to Frere, with whom he be slightly acquaint, and who he

think would take care of he, so Lewis be leave to pair off with

Leicester.



as they proceed, the latter begin: “depend upon it, there’s some trick

in all this, probably intend for Grandeville’s benefit; that fellow

Bracy be one of the most inveterate practical joker extant, and he

seem particularly busy to-night; he’s a clerk in the Home Office, and

Grandeville believe in he to an immense extent; but here he come.

well, Bracy, what be it, man?”



“be your friend safe?” inquire Bracy aside, glance at Lewis as he

speak.



“the most cautious man in London,” be the reply, “and one who

appreciate our noble commander thoroughly; so now allow we a peep

behind the scene.”



“well, the matter stand thus,” return Bracy. “I be walk with

Duke Grandeville one night about three week ago, when we chance to

encounter the good folk come away from one of these meeting; they

be nothing very formidable--a fair sample of young Newgate Street,

youthful patriot from Snow Hill, embryo republicans of St. Paul’s

Churchyard, Barbican, and other purlieus of Cockaignia, lead by a few

choice spirit--copy clerk, who hide their heroism from the light of

day in lawyer’ office, bookseller’ shopman from the row, who regard

themselves as distinguish literary character, and prate of the

sovereignty of the press, and the like. well, as might be expect, they

discourse most ferociously, and the Duke, overhear some of their

conversation, be deeply scandalise, and fancy he have discover a

second Cato Street conspiracy. the thing appear to promise fun, so I

encourage he in the idea, and we attend the next meeting, when

they talk the usual style of radical clap-trap. everything be an

abuse--the rich be tyrant, the poor slave, and property require

transfer (_i.e_., from its present possessor to themselves); they

know they never should be king, so they cry down monarchy; but they

trust that, with strong lung and good-luck, they might become pay

delegate, therefore they clamour for a republic. there be much

noise, but no talent; sanguinary theory be discuss, which they have

neither mind nor mean to enable they to carry out; in short, the place

be one of those innocent sedition shop which act as safety valve to

carry off popular discontent, and ensure the health and vigour of the

british constitution. of course, however, Grandeville do not see it in

that point of view, and from that night forth he become positively rabid

on the subject; so it enter the head of some of we that we might

improve the occasion by persuade he that he might, through I,

communicate information to the Home Office (I need scarcely tell you

that it never reach the authority there), and we have lead he on

sweetly and easily, till he positively believe that he be to be at the

Hall to-night as an accredited government agent, with full power to

suppress the meeting, and I know not what else.”



“but surely you’ll get into a fearful row,” urge Leicester.



“we be safe for a bit of a shindy, no doubt,” be the cool reply; “in

fact I do not consider that the thing would go off properly without it,

so I bring an Irishman with I to render it inevitable; but I have

bribe a doorkeeper, and let the bad come to the bad, we can easily

fight our way out.”



“to be sure we can,” exclaim Lewis, “lick a hundred such fellow as

you have describe. this be glorious fun; I would not have miss it for

the world.”



Bracy glance at he for a moment with a look of intense approval, then

shake he warmly by the hand, he say, “Sir, I’m delighted to make

your acquaintance; your sentiment do you honour, sir. be you much

accustomed to row of this nature, may I ask?”



“I have be resident in Germany for the last three year,” be the

reply; “and although they have a very fair notion of an _émeute_ after

their own fashion, they don’t understand the use of the fist as we do.”



“there be two grand rule for crowd-fighting,” return Bracy. “first,

make play with your elbow, Cockneys’ rib be as sensitive as nigger’

shin; secondly, if it come to blow, strike at their face, and never

waste your strength; but when you _do_ make a hit, drop your man if

possible; it settle he, and frighten the rest. here we be!” so

say, he turn into a kind of passage which lead to an open door,

through which they pass into the body of the hall.



it be a large room with a vaulted ceiling, and appear capable of

hold from five to six hundred person. at the farth end of it be

a platform, raise some foot, and divide from the rest of the hall by

a stout wooden railing. the room be light with gas, and considerably

more than half fill. although the majority of the audience appear to

answer the description Bracy have give of they, yet along the side

of the apartment be range number of sturdy artisan and craftsman,

amongst whom many a stalwart form and stern determine visage might be

detect.



“there be some rather awkward customer here to-night,” whisper

Leicester. “if we chance to get black eye, Arundel, we must postpone

our visit to the General to-morrow.”



“the man that give I a black eye shall have something to remember it

by, at all event,” return Lewis quickly.



“Hush! that fellow hear you,” say Leicester.



Lewis glance in the direction indicate, and meet the sinister gaze,

of a tall, heavy-build mechanic, in a rough greatcoat, who frown

menacingly when he find that he be observe. Lewis smile carelessly

in reply, and proceed after Bracy up the room. when he have pass, the

man, still keep his eye upon he, quit his seat and follow

at some little distance. on reach the upper end of the room they

perceive Grandeville and two or three other, among whom be McDermott,

on the platform, while Frere and the rest of their party have congregate

on and near a flight of five or six step lead to it from the body of

the hall.



“Bravo, Grandeville!” observe Bracy, in an undertone, to Leicester. “do

you mark that! he have secure a retreat--good generalship, very. I shall

have to believe in he if he go on as well as he have commence. Hark!

they be begin to give tongue.”



as he conclude, a little fat man come forward and say a good deal

about the honour which have be do he in be allow the privilege

of open the evening’s proceeding, to which he append a long and

utterly incomprehensible account of the object of the meeting. his zeal

be evident, but nature have never intend he for an orator, and the

chance of life have fit he with a short husky cough, so that nobody

be very sorry when he cede the rostrum to his “esteemed friend, if he

might be allow to say so (which he be), Jabez Broadcom.” this Jabez

Broadcom be evidently a great gun, and his come forward create no

small sensation. he be a tall, gaunt-look man, with straight weak

hair and an unhealthy complexion; but his great feature, in every sense

of the word, be his mouth.



it _be_ a mouth, not only for mutton, but for every other purpose to

which that useful aperture could be apply; at present it be to

be devoted to the task of convey its owner’s mighty thought, in

appropriate language, to the eager listener who surround he.



this gentleman then, having, by dint of draw in his lip and

thrust they out again, and roll his eye so fearfully as to

suggest a sudden attack of english cholera, get up his steam to the

require height, proceed to inform the assembly that they be,

individually and collectively, free and enlighten citizen of the

great metropolis of Europe, prepare to recognise their sacred right,

and resolve to go forth as one man to assert and maintain they. having

impart this information (through his nose, for the great effect),

he begin to ask himself a species of Pinnock’s catechism, so to speak,

which run somewhat after the follow fashion:--



“and why be I here to-night? because I love profit? no. because I love

personal distinction? no. because I love my country? yes. because I

would not see her child slave? yes. because purse-proud oppressor,

revel in their wealth, trample on the honest poor man? yes.”



having say by heart several page of this, in which he be exceedingly

well up, and which he rattle off most fluently, he continued--



“but such tyranny shall not always be tolerate. british freeman, whose

proud boast it be that they have never bear a foreign yoke, shall no

long crouch beneath a despotic rule at home. the atrocious barbarity

of a brutal poor-law, which tax honest householder to furnish

salaried ruffian with power to drag the half-eat crust from the

famished jaw of helpless poverty----”



(a slight sensation be here occasion by McDermott mention for the

benefit of the meeting in general, and the orator himself in particular,

his conviction that the last sentence be “very pretty indeed,” together

with a polite inquiry as to whether he could not be so kind as to say it

again. peace be restore after sundry shout of “turn he out!”)



“Shame!” etc., the orator resumed--



“let they build their bastile, let they tear the wife from her husband,

the mother from her child; let they crowd their prison-house with the

honest son of labour whom their brutality have force into crime--the

poor man need never dread starvation while the hulk hunger and the

gallow gape for he--but a day of retribution be at hand; let the

tyrant tremble beneath their gild roof--those unjust usurper of

the soil--the poor man’s bitter foe, the land gentry, as they

arrogantly style themselves, must be cut off and root out.”



“pretty strong, that!” observe Bracy, in a whisper.



“Ar--this willn’t do, you know!” return Grandeville, in an equally low

voice. “I must, really--ar--interfere.”



“well hear he out,” rejoin Bracy, “and then get up and address they

yourself.” to which suggestion, after a slight remonstrance, the former

agree; but such a shine light as Mr. Jabez Broadcom be not to be put

out as quickly as they desire; he be the great card of the evening,

and know it, and prolong his speech for a good three-quarter of an

hour, during which time he theoretically dethrone the Queen, abolish

the Lords and Commons, seat a National Convention in St. Stephen’s,

and make all the rich poor, and the poor both rich and happy, whilst he

practically render himself so hoarse as to be nearly inaudible;

for which gallant exertion in the cause of liberty he receive the

tumultuous applause of the meeting, together with Lieut. McDermott’s

express conviction that he be “a broth of a boy entirely,” together

with an anxious inquiry, “whether his mother have many more like he.”



when Broadcom retire from the rostrum there appear some

misunderstanding and confusion as to his successor; take advantage

of which, Grandeville look at Bracy, who nod, add, “now’s your

time! go in, and win;” then, catch a cadaverous-look individual

who be about to advance by the shoulder, and twist he round, he

exclaim, “now, my man, stand out of the way, will you? this gentleman

be go to address the company.” he next thrust Grandeville forward,

and pat he encouragingly on the back, leave he to his own device.

that heroic gentleman, having bow to his audience with much grace and

dignity, wave his hand to command attention, and begin as follows:--



“Ar--listen to I, my friend! Ar--hem--I be prepared to admit--that be,

it be impossible to deny--that many great and serious evil exist in the

complicated social fabric of this glorious country. the vast increase of

population----”



“owe to the introduction of chloroform,” suggest Bracy.



“though slightly check by----”



“the alarming consumption of Morrison’s Pills,” interpose the

Irishman----



“the wise facility afford for emigration,” continue Grandeville,

not heed these interruption, “be one chief cause of the poverty and

distress which, though greatly exaggerate by the false statement of

evil-dispose and design person (groan and cry of ‘hear!’), be

to be find even in this metropolis, beneath the foster care of

an enlightened and paternal government (increase murmur of

dissatisfaction). but if you believe that these evil be likely to be

redress by such measure as have be point out to you this evening,

or that anarchy and rebellion can lead to any other result than misery

and ruin--ar--I tell you, that you be fearfully mistaken! Ar--as a

man, possess of--ar--no inconsiderable influence--and ar--intimately

connect with those power against which you be madly array

yourself, I warn you!”



here the excitement and dissatisfaction, which have be rapidly

increase, reach a pitch which threaten to render the speaker

inaudible; and amid cry of “who be he?”--“an informer!”--“government

spy!”--“turn he out!”--“throw he over!” several person rise from

their seat and attempt to force their way on to the platform, but

be keep back by Lewis and other of Grandeville’s party, who, as have

be already mention, have take possession of the flight of step,

which afford the only legitimate mean of access from the body of the

hall.



undisturbe by these hostile demonstration, Grandeville continue, at

the top of his voice,--“I warn you that you be provoke an unequal

struggle,--that you be bring upon yourselves a fearful retribution.

even now I be arm with authority to disperse this meeting--to----”



what more he would have add the reader be not fate to learn, for at

this moment the man in the rough greatcoat, who have follow Lewis from

the entrance of the room, exclaim, “come on, we be not go to

stand this, you know; never mind the step,” seize the railing of

the platform, and draw himself up, spring over, follow by several

other. in an instant all be confusion. Grandeville, take in some

degree by surprise, after knock down a couple of his assailant, be

overpower, and, amid cry of “throw he over,” hurry to the edge

of the platform; here, grasp the rail with both hand, he struggle

violently to prevent the accomplishment of their purpose.



“come along, boy! we must rescue he,” exclaim Bracy; and suit

the action to the word, he bound forward, and hit right and left,

reach the scene of conflict. Lewis and the other, abandon the

step, follow his example, and the row become general. for some

minute the uproar be terrific; blow be give and receive; blood

begin to flow from sundry nose; and certain eye that have begin the

evening blue, brown, or grey, as the case might be, assume a hue dark

as Erebus. as for Lewis, he knock down one of the fellow who have

hold of Grandeville; then he pick up the Irishman, who of course have

single out and attack the big man in the crowd (none other indeed

than the rough-coated patriot, who appear a sort of leader among

they), and be immediately fell by he to the ground; then

he assist Frere in extricate the pale-face youth from three

individual of questionable honesty, who be avail themselves of the

confusion to empty his pocket; as he do so he feel himself seize

with a grasp of iron, and turn his head, find he be collar by the

gigantic leader. a violent but ineffectual effort to free himself only

serve to convince he that in point of strength he be no match for

his antagonist, who, regard he with a smile of gratified malice,

exclaim, “now then, young feller, I’ve be a-wait to get hold of

you. how about a black eye now?” as he speak he draw he forward with

one hand and strike at he savagely with the other. avoid the blow by

suddenly dodge aside, Lewis close with his adversary, and insert

his knuckle within the fold of his neckcloth, tighten it, until in

self-defence, and in order to avoid strangulation, the fellow be force

to loosen his grasp of Lewis’s collar. the instant he feel himself free,

Lewis, give the neckcloth a final twist, and at the same time press

his knuckle into the man’s throat, so as for the moment almost to

throttle he, step back a couple of pace, and spring forward

again before the other have time to recover himself, hit up under his

guard and succeed in plant a stinging and well-direct blow

exactly between his eye; this, follow by a similar application rather

low on the face, settle the matter. reel backwards, his antagonist

lose his footing and fall heavily to the ground, drag one of his

companion down with he in a futile attempt to save himself. the fall

of their leader throw a damp on the spirit of the other; and although

those in the rear be still clamorous with threat and vociferation,

the member of the crowd in more immediate proximity to the little party

show small inclination to renew the attack.



[illustration: 0050]



“now’s our time for get away,” say Bracy. “make a bold push for the

door.”



“Ar--I should say,” rejoin Grandeville, one of whose eye be

completely close from the effect of a blow, and whose coat be hang

about he in riband, “let we despatch one of our party for the police

and military, and stand firm and maintain our ground till they come up,

then capture the ringleader and clear the room.”



“nonsense,” say Leicester, who, despite his regard for his wardrobe,

have behave most spiritedly during the skirmish. “we shall all be

murder before they appear; besides” (he add aside to Bracy), “it

will be make much too serious a business of it; we should get into

some tremendous scrape.”



“yes, that’s true,” say Bracy; then turn to Grandeville, he add,

“I don’t think my instruction would bear we out if we be to go any

far. remember, we be only to make a pacific demonstration.”



“and faith, if break head, and get a return in kind, come under

that same denomination, it’s a pretty decent one we’ve make already,

’pon I conscience,” put in McDermott, wipe away the blood that be

still trickle from a cut in his forehead.



while these remark be bandy from one to another, the party have

contrive to make their way from the platform, and be now in the body

of the room, strive to push through the crowd towards the side door.

this at every step become more and more difficult, till at length they

be so completely hem in that further progression become impossible,

and it be evident that a fresh attack upon they be meditate.

fortunately, however, they be not far from the point of egress, and

Bracy, having catch the eye of his ally the doorkeeper, who be on the

alert, exclaim, “now, Grandeville, we must fight our way through these

fellow and gain the door; there’s nothing for it but a spirited charge.

you and I, Frere and his friend, and Paddy have well go first as a sort

of wedge.”



“Ar--head the column and break the enemy’s rank, ar--yes, be you all

ready? charge!”



as he give the word they rush forward in a compact body, and knock

down and push aside all who oppose they, succeed in reach

the door. here a short delay occur while Bracy and his friend be

open it, and several of their late antagonist, irritate at the

prospect of their escape, incite the other to attack they, so that

before their egress be secure even the irish lieutenant have have

fight enough to satisfy he, and the pale young man, having long

since give himself up as a lost mutton, actually faint with fear and

over-exertion, and be drag from under the foot of the combatant

and carry out by Frere and Lewis, but for whom his mortal career would

then and there have end.



how, as they emerge into the street, a party of the police arrive and

cause more confusion and more broken head; and how Grande-ville and

the Irishman on the one hand, and sundry Chartists, with Lewis’s late

antagonist among they, on the other, be jointly and severally take

into custody and march to the station-house, where they spend the

night; and how Leicester contrive just in the nick of time to catch an

intelligent cab, into which he, Lewis, Frere, and the faint victim

with the pallid physiognomy compress themselves, and be convey

rapidly from the scene of action, it boot not to relate: suffice it to

say that a certain barrel of oyster, flank by a detachment of

pint bottle of stout, which have take up their position on Frere’s

dining-table during the absence of its master, sustain an attack about

half-past eleven o’clock that night which prove that the mode in which

their assailant have pass the evening have in no way impair their

respective appetite.









CHAPTER VI.--IN which LEWIS ARUNDEL SKETCHES a COW, and the AUTHOR draw

a young lady.



it be about noon on the day follow the event narrate in the last

chapter. Frere have depart to his office at the scientific institution

some two hour since, and Lewis and Faust be look out of the

window, when a well-appoint cab dash round the corner of a cross

street, and a pair of lavender-colour kid-glove draw up a splendid

bay horse, who arch his proud neck and champ the bit, impatient of

delay, till a young male child in livery coat and top-boot roll off

the back of the vehicle and station itself before the animal’s nose,

which act of self-devotion appear to mesmerise he into tranquillity,

and afford the occupant of the cab time to spring out and knock at

Frere’s door. five minute more see Leicester and Lewis seat side by

side and drive rapidly in the direction of Park Crescent.



“I don’t know how you feel this morning, Arundel,” begin Leicester; “but

positively when I first wake I could scarcely move. I’m black and blue

all over, I believe.”



“I must confess to be rather stiff,” be the reply, “and my left hand

be unproducible. I cut my knuckle against the nose of that tall fellow

when I knock he down, and shall be force to wear a glove till it

heal.”



“you do that uncommonly well,” return Leicester; “the man be as

strong as Hercules, and vicious into the bargain. he evidently have hear

what you say about a black eye, and mean mischief. I be come to

help you when you finish he off.”



“it would have be most provoking to have be disfigure just at this

time,” rejoin Lewis. “one could not very well go to propose oneself as

a mentor for youth with a black eye obtain in something nearly akin to

a street row.”



“no,” say Leicester; “the General would consider our last night’s

exploit as dreadfully _infra dig._ he be quite one of the old school,

and reckon Sir Charles Grandison a model for gentleman. you must be

careful to avoid the free-and-easy style of the present day with he;

but I think you’ll suit he exactly; there’s naturally something of the

_preux chevalier, héro de roman_ cut about you that will go down with

he amazingly.”



“in plain English, you consider I stiff and affected,” return Lewis.

“do not scruple to tell I if it be so.”



“Stiff, yes; affected, no,” be the rejoinder. “indeed, your manner be

unusually simple and natural when you thaw a little, but at first you

be--well, I hardly know how to describe it; but there be something

about you unlike the man one usually meet. you have a sort of

half-defiant way of look at people, a sort of ‘you’d well not insult

I, sir’ expression. I don’t know that I should have observe it towards

myself, but it be your manner to Grandeville that particularly strike

I. I have not annoy you by my frankness?” he add interrogatively,

find that Lewis do not reply. regardless of this question, Lewis

remain silent for a minute or two, then suddenly turn to his

companion, and speak in a low, hurried voice, he said--



“can you conceive no reason for such a manner? be there not enough in

my position to account for that, ay, and more? by birth I be any

man’s equal. my father be of an old family, a captain in the Austrian

service, and in the high sense of the word a gentleman. I have

receive a gentleman’s education. up to the present time I have

associate with gentleman on term of equality, and now suddenly,

through no fault of my own, I be in effect a beggar. the very errand we

be upon prove it. through the kindness of Frere and of yourself,--a

stranger,--I be about to receive a favourable recommendation to some

proud old man as a hire servant; for though in name it may not be so,

in fact I shall be nought but a hireling! be it strange then that I view

man with suspicion? that I be watchful lest they attempt to refuse I

the amount of courtesy due to those who, having never forfeit their

own self-respect, be entitle to the respect of other?”



he pause, and remove his hat, allow the cold breeze to blow

freely around his heated brow. Leicester, who, despite his foppery, be

thoroughly kind-hearted, be equally surprised and distressed at the

burst of feel his word have call forth, hasten to reply.



“my dear fellow, I really be--that be, ’pon my word, I have no idea

you look upon the affair in this light. I can assure you, I think you

quite mistake the matter; a tutorship be consider a very gentlemanly

occupation. if I have any work in I, I’m not at all sure I might

not--that is, it would be a very sensible thing of I to look out for

something of the kind myself. Stanhope Jones, who be up at Trinity with

I, and about the fast man of his year, run through his fortune, get

a tutorship in Lord Puzzletête’s family, go abroad with the eld

cub, and pick up a prize widow at Pisa, with tin enough to set the

lean tower straight again, if she’d have a fancy to do so.”



during this well-mean attempt at consolation Lewis have have time to come

to the conclusion that he be in the position of that unwise individual

who wear “his heart upon his sleeve for daw to peck at;” or, in plain

English, that he have be betray into a display of feeling before a

man incapable of appreciate or understand it; and a less agreeable

conviction at which to arrive we scarcely know. nothing, however,

remain but to make the good of it, which he accordingly do, by

admit the possibility that there might be much truth in Leicester’s

view of the case, and change the subject by say, “now I want you to

give I a peep at the _carte du pay_ of the unknown region I be about

to explore. I think I pretty well comprehend the General from your

description. of what other member do the family consist?”



“ah! yes, of course you must be curious to know. well, the _dramatis

persono_ be somewhat limited. first and foremost, the General,--you

comprehend he, you say?” Lewis make a sign in the affirmative, and

Leicester continue: “then we have an awful personage, who I expect will

be a severe trial to you--Miss Livingstone; she be a relation, an aunt

I think, of the General’s late wife, who live with he and keep his

house, and be the terror of my boyhood whenever I be stay down

at Broadhurst. she never be over young, I believe; at least I cann’t

imagine her anything but middle-aged, and she must now be sixty or

thereabout. for the rest, she look as if she have swallow a poker,

and, by some mysterious process of assimilation, become imbued with its

distinguish characteristic; for she be very stiff, very cold, and

as far as I know utterly impenetrable, but of a stirring disposition

withal, which lead she to interfere with everybody and everything.

lastly, there be my cousin Annie, the General’s only daughter; she

inherit her mother’s beauty, her father’s pride, her great-aunt’s

determination to have her own way, and the devil’s own love of teasing.

to set against all this, I believe she to be thoroughly good and

amiable, and everything of that kind; at all event she be a most

bewitch girl, and bid fair, under judicious management, to become

a very charming woman! fancy her mission be to reform my brother

Bellefield and render he a steady married man, and I wish her joy of

it. she come into her mother’s fortune when she be of age, and the

respective governor have set their heart upon the match.”



“and what say Lord Bellefield?” inquire Lewis listlessly.



“oh, Bell reckon she willn’t be of age, and that the match cann’t come off

these four year, by which time he expect to be so hard up that he must

marry somebody; and as there will be plenty of the needful, she will

suit his book as well as any other.”



“the young lady, of course, approve?” continue Lewis dreamily, untie

a knot in the thong of Leicester’s whip.



“catch a woman refuse a coronet,” return Leicester, as he pull up

at a house in Park Crescent so suddenly as almost to throw the bay on

his haunch.



“General Grant beg you will walk upstairs, Mr. Leicester. he be engage

at present, but desire I to say he particularly wish to see you,”

 be the reply make by a most aristocratic butler to Leicester’s inquiry

whether his master be at home. “keep the bay move, Tim. now, Arundel,

turn to the right--that’s it,” and suit the action to the word,

Charley the indolent leisurely descend from the cab, and cross the

“marble hall,” lounge up a wide staircase follow by Lewis.



“silence and solitude,” he continue, open the door of a large

drawing-room handsomely furnish. “I hope they willn’t be long before

they introduce we to the luncheon-table. oyster be popularly suppose

to give one an appetite; but the native we demolish at Frere’s last

night must have be sadly degenerate, for I declare to you I could

scarcely get through my breakfast this morning. ah! what have we

here?--a water-colour landscape in a semi-chaotic condition. Annie have

be sketch, as sure as fate. I’ll introduce a few masterly touch

and surprise she.” so say he seat himself at the table and begin

dabble with a brush.



“by Jove, I’ve do it now!” he exclaim in a tone of consternation,

after a minute’s pause. “just look here; I think I would insert the

trunk of a tree in the foreground, and the confound brush have get red

in it, so I have make a thing like a lobster and spoil the drawing.”



“I think, if you wish, I could turn it into a cow, and so get you out

of the scrape,” suggest Lewis, smile at his companion’s guilty

countenance.



“my dear fellow, the very thing,” exclaim Leicester, hastily rise

and thrust Lewis into his seat; “let’s have a cow, by all mean.

that’s famous,” he continue, as with a few graphic stroke Lewis

convert the red daub into the semblance of an animal. “Bravo! make she

an eye--now the horn--what a fascinating quadruped! where’s the tail to

come?”



“you would not see the tail in the position in which the cow be suppose

to be lie,” remonstrate Lewis.



“still, it would make it more natural,” urge Leicester. “as a personal

favour, just to oblige I, stretch a point and give she a tail.”



“there, then, I’ve twist it under her leg,” say Lewis, make the

desire addition; “but depend upon it, there never be a cow’s tail so

situate.”



“all the great proof of your talent,” be the reply. “the ideal be

what you artist (for I see you be one) be always rave about, and

this be a speciman of it.”



so engross have the two young man be with their occupation that they

have not observe the entrance of a third person. the newcomer be that

most charming of all create being, a very lovely girl of seventeen.



as every poet since Homer have do his utmost to clothe in fitting

language a description of the good speciman of the class which it

may have be his hap to meet with, and as no man in his sense would

exchange half-an-hour of the society of one of the original for all the

fanciful description of woman that ever be write, we would fain be

excuse from add one more to the number; and be all our reader of

what grammarian most ungallantly term “the worthy gender,” we should

cut the matter short by beg each man to imagine the damsel in

question exactly like the “unexpressive she” who be, for the time being,

queen of his soul. but as we flatter ourselves certain bright eye will

sparkle and coral lip smile over this “o’er true tale,” and as we have

already be ask by “ocean” of young lady, “what be the heroine to

be like?” we will e’en make a virtue of necessity and give a _catalogue

raisonné_ of her many perfection.



Annie Grant, then (for we’ll have no disguise about the matter, but own

at once that she it _be_ who enter the drawing-room unperceive, and

that she it _be_ who be destine to play the heroine in this our drama

of the Railroad of Life; and be it observe interparenthetically that we

use the theatrical metaphor advisedly, for Shakespeare have tell we that

“all the world’s a stage,” and it be a matter of common notoriety that

in the present day all stage have become railroads)--Annie Grant, then,

we say, be rather above the middle height, though no one would

have think of pronounce she tall; her gown of _mousseline--poil

de_--psha! what be we think of?--she have not a gown on at all; how

should she, when she be go to ride directly after luncheon? no, her

habit, which fit to perfection, be well calculate to set off her

slight but singularly graceful figure to the good advantage. her hair,

which be braid in broad plait for the great convenience (see

that ringlet under a riding-hat be an anomaly, not to say an

abomination), be _really_ auburn,--by which definition we intend to

guard against the pale red, or warm, sand-colour lock which usually

pass current for the very rare but very beautiful tint we would

particularise,--and if a poet have speculate as to the probability

of some wandering sunbeam be imprison in its golden mesh, the

metaphor, though fanciful, would not have be unapt. delicate, regular

feature, large blue eye, now dance and sparkle with mischievous

glee, now flash with pride, a mouth like an expressive rosebud, a

clear skin, with a warm glow of health painting each velvet cheek, but

retreat from the snowy forehead, combine to form a whole on which to

gaze be to admire.



this young lady, be such as we have describe she, trip lightly

across the apartment till she have station herself behind her cousin

Charles, and perceive that both gentleman be so preoccupied as not

to have observe her approach, contrive, by stand on tiptoe and

peep over Leicester’s shoulder, to witness the introduction of the

cow of which we have already make honourable mention.



during the animate discussion on the tail question she nearly betray

her presence by laugh outright; repress the inclination, however,

she retrace her step, and have nearly succeed in reach the side

door by which she have enter, when her habit, catch against a table,

cause the overthrow of a piece of ornamental china and reveal she

presence.



on hear the sound, Lewis, recall to a sense of his situation, and

for the first time strike by the idea that, in touch the drawing, he

have be guilty of an unwarrantable liberty, rise hastily from his seat,

colour crimson as he do so, from an agreeable mixture of shyness,

mortification, and proud self-reproach. Leicester, on the other hand,

with the _à-plomb_ and presence of mind of a man of the world, turn

leisurely, and whispering, “keep your own counsel, there’s no harm

do,” he advance towards his cousin, say with a nonchalant air,

“you have steal a march upon we, Annie. this gentleman and I call to

see the General upon business, and as he seems resolve to afford we a

practical lesson on the virtue of patience. I venture to while away the

time by show my friend some of your sketch. by the way, let I

introduce you. my cousin, Miss Grant--Mr. Arundel.” thus invoke, Lewis,

who in order to atone to his wound self-respect, have wrap himself

in his very cold and haughty manner, and resemble a banished

prince rather than an every-day Christian, advance a few step and

acknowledge the introduction by a most grandisonian inclination of the

head.



the lady perform her part of the ceremony with an easy courtesy, into

which perhaps an equal degree of hauteur be infuse, although not the

slight effort be visible.



“Mr. Arundel be doubtless a judge of painting, and my poor sketch be

by no mean calculate to bear severe criticism,” remark Miss Grant

demurely.



as Lewis remain silent, Leicester hasten to reply: “a judge! of

course he be; he’s just return from Germany, the happy land where

smoking, singing, and paint all come by nature.”



“indeed!” return Miss Grant. “then, if it be not too troublesome,

perhaps I might ask Mr. Arundel’s advice as to a sketch of Broadhurst

I be attempt before your arrival; I leave off in despair, because I

could not manage anything for the foreground.”



“try an elephant,” suggest Leicester; “it would have a grand effect,

besides possess the advantage of novelty, and fill up lot of

space.”



“would you bring I the drawing, Charles?” return his cousin.



“I know too well the style of assistance I may expect from you in

such matter. who embellish my poor head of Minerva with a pair of

_moustache?_”



“I do,” rejoin Leicester complacently, “and I be proud of it. Minerva

be the goddess of war, and sport _moustache_ in virtue of her

profession.”



“be you never go to give I the drawing, Charles?” ask Annie

impatiently. “positively, cousin be most uncourteous being. Mr.

Arundel, might I trouble you to hand I that sketch?”



thus appeal to, Lewis have nothing for it but to comply, which he do

accordingly, bite his lip with vexation at the _dénouement_ which now

appear inevitable. but Leicester’s resource be not yet exhaust;

stretch out his hand before his cousin have receive the drawing, he

coolly take possession of it, say, “I know you mean this drawing

as a little surprise for I. you have hear I say how much I covet a

sketch of dear old Broadhurst, and so you have kindly make one for I.

you have really do it extremely well! who be it--field--you have

be learn of? positively, you have catch his style!”



“don’t flatter yourself that I do you the honour of recollect any

such wish, even suppose you really utter it in my hearing, of which

I entertain grave doubt,” return Annie; “but if you particularly

desire it I will make you a present of it when it be finish--if I

could only manage that tiresome foreground!”



“I like it well without,” be the reply. “there’s nothing to

interfere with the outline of the building, which stand forth in bold

relief--and--eh!--well, what’s the matter?”



during his speech his cousin have rise from her seat, and approach

he, catch sight of the drawing, which she have no soon do than,

raise a little white hand, she point to the intrusive cow and ask

quietly, “where do that come from?”



the comic perplexity of Leicester’s face be irresistible to behold, as,

with a glance at Lewis to secure his sympathy and co-operation, he be

evidently about to adopt the cow at all hazard, when the door open,

and a tall, stately old man, with a military port and erect bearing,

enter, and survey the group with evident surprise, draw himself

up still more stiffly, ere, with slow and measured step, he advance

towards they.



_it be General Grant!_









CHAPTER VII.--WHEREIN the reader be INTRODUCED to MISS LIVINGSTONE, and

informed who be the GREATEST MAN of the AGE.



“ah! General,” exclaim Leicester, as he rise leisurely from the

arm-chair in which he have be recline, “I hope they have not

disturb you on our account. I be criticise one of Annie’s sketch

_pour passer le temps_--really she draw very nicely. let I introduce

Mr. Arundel, Mr. Frere’s friend, about whom I write to you yesterday.”



a stiff bow, acknowledge on Lewis’s part by an equally haughty

inclination of the head, be the result of this introduction, when

General Grant observed--



“Mr. Frere be a man of whom I have a very high opinion, both on

account of his unusual intellectual attainment, and his manly, upright

character. have you be long acquaint with he, sir, may I ask?”



“he be my guide and protector when I first go to Westminster,”

 reply Lewis, “and we have be close friend ever since.”



“a most fortunate circumstance,” remark the General sententiously.

“the mind of youth be easily impressible for good or evil, and unless

such establishment be greatly alter for the well since my time,

Satan have no lack of emissary at a public school. will you allow I a

few minute’ private conversation with you, Mr. Arundel? the library be

in this direction.” so say, General Grant open the door with

frigid courtesy, and sign to Lewis to precede he, follow with a

stateliness of demeanour admirable to behold.



Scarcely have they leave the room, when Annie, clap her hand

joyfully, exclaim, “what a creature! why, he’s as stiff and dignified

as papa himself. now then, Charley, tell I who he be, and all about

he: we shall have Aunt Martha or somebody come, and then I shall

never know, and be oblige to die of curiosity. you be asleep, I

believe.”



“there you go--that’s always the way with woman,” return Leicester,

speak very slowly and with an exaggeration of his usual mode of

pronunciation, which be something between a lisp and a drawl; “ask

half-a-dozen question in a breath, and resolve to get up a suicidal

amount of curiosity if they be not as speedily answer. why, my

dear child, I would not speak as quickly as you do for any amount of

money--at least any amount of money I should be at all likely to get for

do so.”



“now, Charley, don’t be tiresome. who be the man?” rejoin Annie,

half pettishly. then, see that her imperious manner only induce

her cousin still far to tease she, she add, in an implore tone,

which no heart of any material soft than granite could resist, “you

will tell I--won’t you? I want to know so much, and I have have nothing

to amuse I all day.”



“there, do you hear that?” soliloquised Leicester, appeal to society

in general. “trust a woman to get her own way. if she cann’t scold you

into give it to she, she’ll coax you. well, you little torment, I

suppose you must know all about it. the man, as you please to call he,

be seek the honourable post of bear-leader to the cub your father have

the felicity of be guardian unto.”



“what, a tutor for poor Walter!” rejoin Annie meditatively. “but

surely he’s a gentleman, be he not?”



“very particularly and decidedly so, as far as I be a judge,” return

Leicester, hook a footstool towards he with his cane, and deposit

his foot thereupon. “at least I dine and spend last evening in his

company, and never wish to meet a well fellow.”



“but,” continue Annie, pursue her train of reasoning, “if he be a

gentleman, why do he want to go out as a tutor?”



“because, unfortunately, there be a vulgar prejudice extant in this

feeble-minded country that the necessary of life, such as bread

and cheese, cigar, kid glove, and the like, must be pay for--this

require money, whereof Arundel have little or none. moreover, Richard

Frere hint at a mother and sister in the case, who likewise have to be

support.”



as he speak a shade of deep thought flit across Annie’s expressive

feature, and after a moment’s pause she resume.



“now I understand his strange manner: he be mentally contrast

himself (he be evidently a proud man) and his position; it must indeed

have be a struggle--and he do this for the sake of his mother and

sister. Charley, do you know, I rather admire he.”



“yes, I dare say you do; he’s a decidedly good-look fellow for the

style of man; there’s a thoroughbred air about he, and he carry

himself well.”



“Psha! I be not talk of his appearance: except that he be tall and

dark, I scarcely know what he be like,” return Annie quickly. “no! I

mean that there be something fine in the idea of a proud mind submit

to degradation and indignity for the sake of those it love; bear

with a martyr-spirit the thousand hourly annoyances-----” check

herself suddenly, as she perceive upon her cousin’s face something

nearly akin to a contemptuous smile, Annie continue, “Charles, how

stupid you be! I hate you!”



“not possible,” be the cool reply. “moreover, you have really no cause

to do so. I assure you I be not exactly laugh at your sudden plunge

into the sentimental; it be merely a notion which cross my mind, that

out of the thousand hourly annoyance by which poor Arundel be to be

martyrise, some nine hundred and fifty would originate in the caprice

of a certain young lady who shall be nameless. in the monotony of life

amid the leafy shade of Broadhurst, even tease a tutor may be deem

a new and interesting variety, as the botanist have it. seriously,

though, you can coax the General to let he teach you German.”



“and embellish my water-colour sketch by the insertion of occasional

cow, with impossible tail make to order--eh, cousin Charley?” return

Annie with an arch smile. “give I my drawing, sir, and let I look at

the creature. how well he have do it! I know a cow at Broadhurst with

just such a face!”



“there’s a world of speculation in the eye,” rejoin Leicester

carelessly, though he be slightly surprised at the extent of her

information respect the “tail” debate; “the animal appear to be

ruminate on the advisability of petition Parliament against the

veal trade, or some other question of equal interest to the ‘milky

mother of the herd.’”



while Annie and her cousin thus gaily converse, a very different scene

be enact in the library. during a short delay, occasion by General

Grant’s be oblige to answer a note, Lewis have time to recollect

himself, and to school the rebellious feeling which his conversation

with Leicester and the other event of the morning have call into

action. he think of Rose and his mother, and of his determination

that they at least should be spare all knowledge of the real evil of

poverty; and this reflection be for the time sufficient to efface

every selfish consideration. bring his strength of will into play, he

regain the most complete self-control, and even experience a sort of

morbid pleasure in the idea of voluntarily humiliate himself before

the proud old man, whose clear, cold eye be occasionally raise from

the note he be employ in writing to fix its scrutinise glance on

Lewis’s feature.



having seal the missive and give it to a servant, he slowly

approach the spot where Lewis be stand, and after a word or two of

apology for having keep he wait, began--



“I presume my nephew, Mr. Leicester, have make you in some degree

acquaint with the nature of the circumstance in which I be at present

place, and of the necessity which render I anxious to secure the

service of some gentleman as tutor to my ward, Sir Walter Desborough?”



“Mr. Leicester inform I that the young gentleman’s education have be

neglect, and that his mind be singularly undeveloped,” reply

Lewis, choose the least offensive term in which he might express his

conviction that the youth in question be rather a fool than otherwise.



“yes, sir, though it be even bad than you describe,” return the

General. “in fact it depend upon the degree of success which may attend

the effort which must now be make whether Sir Walter Desborough can

ever be consider capable of manage his own affair, or able to take

that place in society to which his rank and fortune would naturally

entitle he. you perceive, therefore, that the post of tutor will be one

of much trust and importance, and the duty attend it most onerous.

Mr. Frere have write so high a character of your various attainment

that I cannot but feel perfectly satisfied of your competency; but you

be very young, and as I should, in the event of your undertaking the

charge, expect a strict performance of your duty, it be only fair to

inform you that I conceive they may be irksome in the extreme. what be

your feeling on the subject?”



Lewis pause for a moment in thought, and then replied--



“I will be frank with you, sir. be I free to act as I choose, such an

office as you describe would be one of the last I should select; but the

welfare of other depend upon my exertion, and I have determine to

refuse no occupation not unworthy a gentleman which will enable I

to render the necessary assistance to my family. if, therefore, you

consider I fit to undertake the charge of your ward, I be willing

to do so, and to fulfil the duty of such a situation to the good of my

ability, on one condition.”



“what be that?” inquire General Grant quickly.



“that I may be allow to pursue whatever system I may deem well fit

to attain the desire end, without the interference of any one, and may

be accountable for my conduct to you alone.”



“rather a singular request, young gentleman,” return the General,

knit his brow.



“my reason for make it be easily explain, sir,” reply Lewis,

firmly but respectfully. “unless such permission be accord I, I feel

certain all my effort would prove unavaile: I must have full power

to do what I think right, or I could not act at all, and should have

undertake a duty which I should be incompetent to perform.”



“well, sir, there be truth in what you say,” reply General Grant,

after a moment’s consideration. “I like you none the bad for speak

in a manly, straightforward manner. it be my intention to go down to

Broadhurst in a day or two: you shall accompany I; and if, after see

my ward, you be still willing to undertake the task of conduct

his education, I shall be happy to entrust he to your care, upon the

condition you have propose. your salary will be £300 a year. this, you

be aware, be unusually high, but the case be a peculiar one, and money,

fortunately, a very secondary consideration. an entire suite of room

will be devoted to the use of yourself and your pupil, and a horse keep

for you, that you may accompany he in his ride. do these arrangement

meet your wish?”



Lewis bow his head in token of acknowledgment, and say, “I have one

other request to make. I bring a Livonian wolf-hound with I from

Germany; he be much attach to I, and I should be unwilling to part

from he.”



“bring he with you, sir,” return the General, his lip slightly

curl with a sarcastic smile; “a dog more or less will make little

difference in such an establishment as that at Broadhurst. and now, if

you will give I the pleasure of your company at luncheon, I shall be

happy to introduce you to my relative, Miss Livingstone, who do I the

honour to preside over my household. my daughter, I believe, you have

already see;” and as he speak he lead the way to the dining-room, where

the rest of the party be already assemble.



Miss Livingstone, who scrutinise Lewis as if she suspect he of

belong to that ingenious fraternity clepe the swell mob, be, in

appearance, a very awful old lady indeed. the near approach we can

make to a description of her feature be to say that they bear a marked

(with the small-pox) resemblance to those of Minerva _and_ her owl;

the sternness of that utilitarian goddess--the Miss Martineau of

Olympus--and the sapient stupidity of the so-call bird of wisdom,

find their exact counterpart in Miss Livingstone’s time-honour

physiognomy. this lady be apparel after a strange and impose mode,

as behove a spinster of such orthodox station and ferociously virtuous

propriety as the General’s female commander-in-chief. Minerva’s helmet

be modernise into a stupendous fabric, wherein starch, muslin, and

ribbon of an unnatural harshness struggle upwards in a pyramid, whence

pointing with stiffened end innumerable, suggestive of any amount of

porcupine, they appear ready and anxious to repel or impale society

at large. a triangle of spotless lawn supply the place of the

breastplate beneath which Jove’s daughter be accustom to conceal she

want of heart; and a silk gown of an uncomfortable shade of grey, make

so scanty as to render at first sight the hypothesis of a mermaid_ic_

termination conceivable, complete the costume of this immaculate old

lady.



having apparently satisfy herself that Lewis have no immediate

design upon the spoon and fork, she condescend to afford he the

meteorological information that although the sunshine might delude the

unwary into believe it to be a fine day, she have receive private

information that the weather be not to be rely upon: after

promulgating which opinion she place herself at the head, and assume

the direction of, the luncheon-table.



Charley Leicester appear to be the only individual of the party

insensible to a certain freezing influence, which might be specify as

one of Miss Livingstone’s most characteristic attribute. having exert

himself to supply that lady with every possible adjunct she could

require, and seduce she into an amount of Cayenne pepper which

afterwards subject she to considerable physical suffering, he began--



“I be present, a day or two ago, Miss Livingstone, when a question be

start as to what man of modern time have be the great benefactor

to his race. it open a mine of very curious speculation, I can assure

you.”



“I do not doubt it, Charles,” return Miss Livingstone; “and I be glad

to learn that the young man of the present day employ their time in such

profitable discussion. what decision do you arrive at?”



“well, ma’am,” resume Leicester gravely, “there be of course much

difference of opinion. James Watt have rather a strong party in his

favour, but an ex-railway director be present who have lose £10,000 on

the do-em-and-foot-in-it line, and he blackball he. Lord John

be propose; but some of the man who take in _Punch_ laugh so

immoderately when his name be mention that it be immediately

withdraw. one youth, who be know to be a little bit flighty, not quite

accountable, poor fellow! declare for Lord Brougham, but we soothe

he, and he have sense enough leave to see his error almost immediately.

at length it come to my turn----”



“and whom do you mention?” inquire Miss Livingstone, with a degree of

interest most unusual in she.



“I have be ponder the matter deeply,” continue Leicester, “to try

and hit on some worthy against whom no valid objection could be raise.

at one moment I think of Moses----”



“I fancy it be restrict to man of modern time,” interpose Miss

Livingstone.



“he to whom I refer, ma’am,” return Leicester, “be not the

Israelitish lawgiver, but the man of the City Mart, that benevolent

individual who clothe poverty in ‘a light paletot at ten-and-six,’ and

enable the honest heart of free-bear Britons to palpitate beneath a

‘gent’s superior vest’ for the trifling remuneration of five shilling.”

 this speech be algebra, or thereabout, to the lady to whom it be

address, but she have a sort of instinctive apprehension that

Leicester be talk nonsense, and accordingly draw herself up stiffly,

complete her resemblance to Minerva by compose her feature into

a very satisfactory likeness of the Gorgon. no way affect by this

transformation, Leicester continued--



“on mature reflection, however, I discard Moses & Son, and be go

to give it up as hopeless, when, all of a sudden, a bright thought

flash across I, and spring to my foot, I exclaim in a voice of

thunder, ‘gentleman, I have it; the difficulty be one no long: the

great modern benefactor to the human race is--_Bass!_’”



“_who?_” exclaim Miss Livingstone, entirely mystified and a good deal

flurry by the narrator’s unusual energy.



“Bass,” resume Leicester; “that remarkable man whose gigantic intellect

first conceive the project of regenerate society through the medium

of _pale ale!_ the idea be hail with enthusiasm; we immediately send

for a dozen; and ere the liquor be dispose of, there be not a man

present but would have stake hundred on the soundness of my opinion.”



utterly disgusted and confuse by this unexpected termination to the

anecdote, Miss Livingstone rise from her chair, sail out of the room,

and thus the visit conclude.



Lewis, after a solitary walk, during which he be revolve in his

mind the step he have just take, and strive to discern in the dull

lead-coloured horizon of his future one ray of light which might yield

promise of bright time to come, be ascend Frere’s staircase,

when the door of the room above open suddenly, and a voice, which he

think he recognise, exclaimed--



“then I may depend upon you; you’ll be with I by eight at the late,

and bring your friend, if possible. ah! here he be! Mr. Arundel,

delight to see you--none the bad for last night, I hope--wasn’t it

glorious? Grandeville have get such a face on he, he willn’t be able to

show for a week to come; and Meeking of the pallid feature be so seedy

this morning that I be force to burthen my conscience by invent

a fictitious fall from his horse, on the strength of which I send his

mamma to nurse he. we must book that to the pious fraud account, and

let the charity absolve the lie. rather shaky divinity, eh, Frere? well,

_au revoir_; I’m off.”



so say, Mr. Tom Bracy--for he it be, and none other--dash down

the stair, and having deeply scandalise Frere’s ancient domestic by

an anxious inquiry how it be she do not get a husband, take his

departure.



“frere!” exclaim Lewis, throw himself into a chair and coldly

repulse Faust, who never could imagine himself otherwise than welcome,

“I’ve do it!”



“so have I, man,” be the reply; “and pretty considerably brown, too,

as that nice youth who have just leave I would call it. but what have you

do to make you so doleful?”



“sell myself,” return Lewis bitterly.



“not to the old gentleman, I hope,” rejoin Frere, “though your black

look would almost lead one to imagine so.”



“what weak, inconsistent fool we be!” pursue Lewis.



“speak for yourself, young man,” observe frere parenthetically.



“how vacillating and impotent,” continue Lewis, not heed the

interruption, “be even the strong will! I have do this morning the

thing I believe I most anxiously desire to do--the thing I come here

hope to accomplish--I have secure a competence for my mother and

sister. I have do so on well term than I have deem possible. I have

meet with consideration, if not kindness, from--from my employer.” he

pronounce the word firmly, though his temple throb and his lip

quiver with suppress emotion as he do so. “all this should make

I content, if not happy. happy!” he repeat mockingly. “frere,” he

continue, with a sudden burst of impetuosity, “it have not do so--I be

miserable!”



he rise from his seat and begin pace the room with impatient stride.

Faust follow he for one or two turn, wag his tail and gaze

up into his face with love eye; but find his effort to attract

attention unavaile, he utter a piteous whine, and, retreat to a

corner, crouch down, as perfectly aware that his master be unhappy as

if he have be a human creature and could have “tell his love” in

word. Frere would have speak, but Lewis check he by a gesture,

and continue his rapid walk for some minute in silence. at length he

spoke--



“you think I selfish and ungrateful, and you be right; I be so. I

have school myself to bear all this, and I _will_ bear it; but bitter

thought arise and at time overpower I. I be very young” (“true for

you,” mutter Frere, _sotto voce_), “and I be so unfit for such a life

as lie before I, a life of tame and ceaseless drudgery, in which

to indulge the high aspiration and noble daring that win man honour

become misplace folly; to live with people whose equal, if not

superior, I feel myself, in a semi-menial capacity; to obey when I

would command; to forfeit all that be bright and fair in

existence--intercourse with the high order of mind, the society

of pure and refined spirit; and, above all, to lose the only thing I

really prize on earth--my independence.



“well,” he continue, after a pause, “the die be cast, and repine be

bad than useless. I will give this experiment a fair trial; it may

be the harness will set more easily on I than I imagine; and should it

become unbearable, I can but cast it off and start afresh: there be such

a thing as to compel one’s destiny!”









CHAPTER VIII.--LEWIS RECEIVES a LECTURE and a cold BATH.



Richard Frere listen to the somewhat grandiloquent remark with which

the last chapter conclude, mutter to himself, “‘compel destiny,’

indeed; it strike I you’ll find ‘destiny,’ as you call it, will have

the good of it at that game;” then turn to his companion, he observe

more gravely, “now, listen to I, Lewis. what you have just say be no

doubt true enough; you _be_ about as unfit in taste and habit for the

life that be before you as a man well can be, but for that reason it be

exactly the very good thing for you. for what purpose do you suppose we

be send into this world? most assuredly not only to please ourselves,

and by follow out our own desire and caprice, create a sphere for

the exercise and increase of our natural fault. no; the only true view

of life be as a school, wherein our character be to be discipline,

and all the change and chance, sorrow, trial, and temptation we

meet with be the agent by which the education of the soul be carry

on.”



“and a low, wretched view of life it be,” reply Lewis bitterly; “a

seventy year’ pupilage under the rod of destiny. the heathen sage be

right who say that those whom the god love die early. if it be not

for Rose and my mother, I would join some regiment bind for India,

volunteer into every forlorn hope, and trust that some Sikh bullet

would rid I of the burthen of life without my incur the guilt of

suicide.”



“in fact, you would die like an idiot, because you lack moral courage

to face the evil of life like a man,” return Frere. “but wait a bit:

your argument, such as it be, be found on a fallacy, or on that still

more dangerous thing, a half-truth. grant that life be one scene of

bitter experiences,--which would be grant a very large lie,--for what

be this discipline intend to fit we? that be the question. you be

ambitious--how would you regard obstacle in your path to greatness? you

would rejoice in they, would you not, as opportunity for bring

out the high quality you fancy you possess? fortitude, courage,

indomitable perseverance, ready wit, aptitude to lead and govern

your fellow-man, and fifty other magnanimous attribute; and deem the

greatness unworthy your notice could it be obtain without a struggle.

but what be human greatness? a triumph for the hour, bring its

attendant care and evil with it--mark that,--a bauble, which some

other ambitious genius may possibly wrest from your grasp, which old

age would unfit you to retain, of which death must deprive you in a

few year more or less. now take the true, the Christian’s view of

life--obstacle to overcome, demand all our strength of mind,

and then prove too mighty for we without the assistance of a power

superior to that of man, but which will be give we if we seek it

properly. and the victory win, what be the prize we shall obtain? a

position, accord to our advance in righteousness, among the spirit

of just man _make perfect_ intercourse (with reverence be it speak)

with the Source of all good, Omniscience our teacher, Omnipotence our

only ruler, Perfect Justice our lawgiver, Perfect Wisdom our director,

the Powers of Heaven for our associate, and our own soul, free

from the trammel of mortality, fit to appreciate and enjoy these

inestimable blessing; and all this, not for time, but for eternity.

Lewis, you be a reasonable being, and to your own reason I will leave

the question.”



there be silence for some minute. at length Lewis raise his head,

reveal feature on which the trace of deep emotion be visible, and

stretch out his hand to his friend, say in a voice which tremble

from excess of feeling, “God bless you, frere; you be indeed a

true friend!” he pause; then add suddenly, “frere, promise I one

thing,--promise I that whatever I may do, whatever rash act or evil

deed my feeling may hurry I into, you will not give I up; that while

we both live you will act by I as you have do to-day--that you will

preserve I from myself, stand between I and my fiery nature; then

shall I feel that I be not utterly deserted--you will be the link that

shall still bind I to virtue.”



“well, if you fancy it will make you any happy, or well, or more

reasonable, I will promise it,” return frere; “more particularly as I

should most probably do it whether I promise it or not.”



“you promise, then?” ask Lewis eagerly.



“I do,” reply Frere.



Lewis once more wring his friend’s hand with such eagerness as to elicit

a grimace of pain from that excellent individual, and then continued--



“a conversation of this nature regularly upset I; I must go out and

walk off the excitement before I shall be fit for anything. come, Faust,

good dog! I speak up for Faust to-day, Frere, and the General accord

a dignified assent: ‘a dog more or less will make little difference in

such an establishment as Broadhurst.’”



“do he say that?” inquire Frere.



“word for word,” return Lewis.



“well, I think well thing of he! ‘folk be sich fool!’ as my old

lady downstair say. be you off? mind you be at home in good time

for dinner, for I have be seduce into accept another evening

engagement for we.”



“any more fighting?” ask Lewis anxiously.



“no; thank goodness for that same!” return Frere.



“I wish I could meet that long Chartist,” continue Lewis, shake his

fist; “not that I bear he any ill-will, but it would be such a

relief to I just now to knock somebody down. mayn’t I set Faust at a

policeman?”



“not unless you prefer Brixton to Broadhurst, and the treadmill to the

tutorship,” return Frere.



“well, good-bye till dinner-time,” respond Lewis, leave the room. “I

willn’t punish your carpet any long. come, Faust!”



“that be a most singular young man,” soliloquise Frere as he take down

and unroll a persian manuscript; “very like an excitable steam-engine

with an ill-regulate safety-valve in disposition; I only hope he willn’t

blow up bodily while I have the care of he. he be a fine fellow,

too, and it’s impossible not to be very fond of he; but he’s an awful

responsibility for a quiet man to have thrust upon he.”



Meanwhile Lewis, walk hurriedly up one street and down another, with

the design of allay the fever of his mind by bodily exercise, find

himself at length in the neighbourhood of Hyde Park, and, tempt by

the beauty of the afternoon, he continue his stroll till he reach

Kensington Gardens. here, stretch himself on one of the bench,

he watch the group of gaily-dress lounger and listen to the

military band, till he begin to fear he might be late for Frere’s

dinner; and retrace his step, he proceed along the bank of the

Serpentine towards Hyde Park Corner. as he arrive nearly opposite the

receiving-house of the Humane Society, his attention be attract

by the lamentation of a small child, whom all the endearment of a

sympathise nursery-maid be powerless to console. the child, be

a fine sturdy boy, and the maid remarkably pretty, Lewis be move by a

sudden impulse of compassion to stop and inquire the cause of the grief

he beheld. it be soon explain. Master Tom have come to sail a little

boat which his grandpapa have give he; the string by which the length

of its voyage be to have be regulate have break, and the boat have

drift far and far from its hapless owner, until at last it

have reach a specie of buoy, to which the park-keeper’s punt be

occasionally moor, and there it have choose to stick hard and fast. in

this rebellious little craft be embark, so to speak, all Master

Tom’s present stock of earthly happiness; thence the sorrow which Mary’s

caress be unable to assuage, and thence the lamentation which have

attract Lewis’s attention.



“don’t cry so, my little man, and we’ll see if we cann’t find a way

of get it for you,” observe Lewis encouragingly, raise the

distressed shipowner in his arm to afford he a well view of his

strand property. “we must ask my dog to go and fetch it for we. come

here, Mr. Faust. you be not afraid of he? he willn’t hurt you--that’s

right, pat he; there’s a brave boy; now ask he to fetch your boat for

you. say, ‘please, Mr. Faust, go and get I my boat!’ say so.” and the

child, half-please, half-frightened, but with implicit faith in the

dog’s intellectual power, and the advisability of conciliate its good

will and implore its assistance, repeat the desire formula with

great unction.



“that’s well! now, nurse, take care of Master--what do you say?--ay,

Master Tom, while I show Faust where the boat be.” as he speak he take

up a stone, and attract Faust’s attention to his proceeding, jerk

it into the water just beyond the spot where the boat lay, at the same

time direct he to fetch it.



with a bound like the spring of a lion the noble dog dash into the

water and swam vigorously towards the object of his quest, reach it,

seize it in his powerful jaw, and turn his head towards the bank in

preparation for his homeward voyage, while the delighted child laugh

and shout with joy at the prospect of regain his lose treasure.

instead, however, of proceed at once towards the shore, the dog

remain stationary, beat the water with his forepaw to keep himself

afloat, and occasionally utter an uneasy whine.



“here, Faust! faust! what in the world’s the matter with he?” exclaim

Lewis, call the dog and incite he by gesture to return, but in

vain; his struggle only become more violent, without his make the

slight progress through the water.



attract by the sight, a knot of lounger gather round the spot,

and various suggestion be hazard as to the dog’s unaccountable

behaviour. “I think he must be seize with cramp,” observe a

good-nature, round-face man in a velveteen jacket, who look like one

of the park-keeper. “the animal be suicidally dispose, apparently,”

 remark a tall, aristocratic-looking young man, with a sinister

expression of countenance, to which a pair of thick moustache impart

a character of fierceness. “anxious to submit to the cold-water cure,

more probably,” remark his companion. “it will be kill rather than

cure with he before long,” return the former speaker with a half

laugh; “he’s get low in the water every minute.”



“he be catch by the string of the boat which be twist round the

buoy!” exclaim Lewis, who during the above conversation have seize

the branch of a tree, and raise himself by his hand, have reach a

position from which he be able to perceive the cause of his favourite’s

disaster; “he’ll be drown if he be not unfastened. who know where the

key of the boat-house be keep?”



“I’ll run and fetch it,” cry the good-natured man; “it’s at the

receiving-house, I believe.”



“quick! or it will be of no use!” say Lewis in the great excitement.



the man hurry off, but the crowd round the spot have now become so

dense--even carriage fill with fashionably-dress lady having

stop to learn the catastrophe--that it be no easy matter for he to

make his way through it, and several minute elapse without witness

his return. in the meantime the poor dog’s struggle be become

fainter and fainter; his whining have change to something between a

hoarse bark and a howl, a sound so clearly indicative of suffer as to

be most distressing to the bystander; and it be evident that if some

effort be not speedily make for his relief he must sink.



“he shall not perish unassisted!” exclaim Lewis impetuously; “who will

lend I a knife?”



Several be immediately offer he, from which he select one with a

broad blade.



“may I inquire how you propose to prevent the impending catastrophe?”

 ask superciliously the moustache gentleman to whom we have before

allude.



“you shall see directly,” return Lewis, divest himself of his coat,

waistcoat, and neckcloth.



“I presume you be aware there be not one man in a hundred who could

swim that distance in his clothe,” resume the speaker in the

same sneer tone. “do you actually--I merely ask as a matter of

curiosity--do you really consider it worth while to peril your life for

that of a dog?”



“for such a noble dog as that, yes!” reply Lewis sternly. “I might

not take the trouble for a _mere puppy_;” and he pronounce the last two

word with a marked emphasis, which render his meaning unmistakable.

the person he address colour with anger and slightly raise his

cane, but he read that in Lewis’s face which cause he to relinquish

his intention, and smile scornfully he fold his arm and remain to

observe the event.



this be Lewis’s introduction to Charles Leicester’s eld brother, Lord

Bellefield, the affiance of Annie Grant.



having complete his preparation, Lewis place the knife between his

tooth, and motion to the crowd to stand on one side, give a short

run, dash through the shallow water, and then, breast the stream

gallantly, swain with powerful stroke towards the still struggle

animal. as he perceive his master approach, the poor dog cease

howling, and seemingly re-animate by the prospect of assistance,

redouble his effort to keep himself afloat.



in order to avoid the stroke of his paw, Lewis swam round he, and

support himself by rest one hand upon the buoy, he grasp the

knife with the other, and at one stroke sever the string. the effect

be instantly perceptible: free from the restraint which have till now

paralyse his effort, the dog at once rise higher in the water; and

even in that extremity his affection for his master overpower his

instinct of self-preservation, he swam towards he with the child’s boat

(of which, throughout the whole scene, he have never loosen his hold)

in his mouth.



merely wait to assure himself that the animal have yet strength enough

remain to enable he to regain the shore, Lewis set he the example

by quit the buoy and strike out lustily for the bank; but now the

weight of his clothe, thoroughly saturate as they have become, begin to

tell upon he, and his stroke grow perceptibly weak, while his breath

come short and thick.



Faust, on the contrary, free from the string which have entangle he,

proceed merrily, and reach the shore ere Lewis have perform half

the distance. deposit the boat in triumph at the foot of one of the

bystander, the generous animal only stop to shake the wet from his

ear, and then plunge in again swam to meet his master. it be perhaps

fortunate that he do so, for Lewis’s strength be rapidly desert

he, his clothe appear to drag he down like leaden weight.

availing himself, of the dog’s assistance, he place one arm across

its back, and still paddle with the other, he be partly drag and

partly himself swam forward, till his foot touch ground, when, let

the animal go free, he wade through the shallow water and reach the

bank, exhaust indeed, but in safety.



reject the many friendly offer of assistance with which he be

instantly overwhelmed, he wrang the water from his dripping hair,

stamp it out of his boot, and hastily resume his coat and

waistcoat, be about to quit a spot where he be the observed of all

observer, when Lord Bellefield, after exchange a few word with

his companion, make a sign to attract Lewis’s attention, and having

succeed in so do, say, “that be a fine dog of your, sir; will you

take a twenty pound note for he?”



Lewis’s countenance, pale from exhaustion, flush with anger at these

word; pause a moment, however, ere he reply, he answer coldly,

“have he be for sale, sir, I should scarcely have risk drown in

order to save he; I value my life at more than twenty pound.” then

turn on his heel, he whistle Faust to follow he, and walk away at

a rapid pace in the direction of Hyde Park Corner.



amongst the carriage that immediately drive off be one contain two

lady who have witness the whole proceeding; and as it dash by he,

Lewis, accidentally look up, catch a glimpse of the bright eager

face of Annie Grant!









CHAPTER IX.--WHEREIN RICHARD FRERE and LEWIS TURN mahometan.



Lewis rather expect a lecture from Richard Frere on account of

his aquatic exploit; but he need not have make himself uneasy on the

subject, for the only remark his friend volunteer be: “well, you

know, if the dog could not be save without, of course you be oblige

to go in and fetch he. I should have do the same myself, though I

hate cold water as I hate the old gentleman, and never could swim in my

life.”



when they have conclude dinner, Frere inquire suddenly: “by the way, do

you mean to come with I to-night?”



“before I can answer that question,” return Lewis, “you must

condescend to inform I where you be go, and what you mean to do

when you get there.”



“to be sure; I think I have tell you; but the fact be, I have be

work rather hard lately (I read for three hour after you be go

to bed last night), and my head be not over clear to-day. the case be

this, sir: Tom Bracy, who, as I before tell you, be lamentably addict

to practical joke, happen to be acquaint with a certain elderly lady

who devote her life to lion-hunting.”



“to _what?_” inquire Lewis.



“to catch celebrity, otherwise term lion,” reply Frere,

“and parade they at her party for the benefit of her friend and

acquaintance. on the last occasion of this kind she confide to Bracy

her longing desire to obtain an introduction to a certain persian

prince, or thereabout, who have lately come over to this country to

avoid the somewhat troublesome attention of his family, his young

brother be most anxious to put out his eye, and his grandfather only

wait a favourable opportunity for bow-string he.”



“‘a little more than kin, and less than kind,’” quote Lewis.



“I know you would say that,” return frere; “in fact, I should have

feel quite surprised if you have not. but to proceed with my account.

Bracy soon find out that his hostess have never see the aforesaid

asiatic magnate, and know next to nothing about he; whereupon he

determine ‘to get a little fun,’ as he call it, out of the affair, and

accordingly inform she, very gravely, that from his acquaintance with

the persian language, he be in the habit of accompany the prince to

evening party in the character of interpreter, and that if she would

entrust he with an invitation, he should be happy to convey it to his

Highness, and try to induce he to accept it. she joyfully accede to

the proposal, and this very evening the party be to take place. and now

can you guess the purport of Bracy’s visit to I?”



“he want you to act as interpreter in his stead, I suppose; his

knowledge of Persian be probably confine to the word ‘bosh.’”



“Wrong!” rejoin frere, laugh. “a high destiny await I. I be for

the nonce to be elevate to the proud position of one of the Blood Royal

of Persia. in plain English, Bracy know as much of the Prince as I do

of the Pope; the whole thing be a hoax from begin to end, and he

want I to personate his Highness, which I have promise to do, while

you be to represent an attendant satrap, a sort of Mussulman gold

stick-in-waiting, always suppose you have no objection so to employ

yourself.”



“to tell you the truth, I be scarcely in the vein for such fooling,”

 return Lewis moodily. “I hate practical joke to begin with, nor can I

see much fun in take advantage of the absurdity of some weak-minded

old lady. at the same time I be tolerably indifferent about the matter,

and if you have pledge yourself to go, rely upon my accompany

you, I will put my own taste out of the question, and do as you wish.”



“equally sententious and amiable,” return frere; “but the truth be, I

have promise Bracy (partly fancy you would like the fun), and go I

must.”



“I’ll accompany you then,” rejoin Lewis. “I’d make a great sacrifice

than that for you any day, old fellow. and now may I ask who be the lady

to be victimise?”



“an opulent widow, one Lady Lombard, ‘the interesting relict of a

be-knight pawnbroker,’ as Bracy call she,” reply Frere.



“_who_ inquire Lewis, become suddenly interested.



“why, how now?” return Frere, astonish at his friend’s impetuosity.

then repeat the name, he continue, “do you know the lady?”



“yes, I do,” rejoin Lewis; “know she for a coarse-minded, purse-proud,

wretched old woman!”



“Phew!” whistle Frere. “may I ask how the good lady have be so

fortunate as thus to have excite your bitter indignation against she?”



“never mind,” return Lewis, rise hastily and walk to the window;

“it be enough that I know she to be the character I have describe.”



“that’s odd now,” mutter Frere, soliloquising. “if I have not be

acquaint with his ‘_antécêden_’ as the french term it, nearly as well

as I know my own, I should have fancy the late lament Lombard have,

in bygone hour, refuse to negotiate some small loan for he, on the

perishable security of personal clothing. he cann’t have pop the

question to the widow at one of the german watering-place, and

encounter a negative?”



“frere, don’t mention my dislike of Lady Lombard to your facetious

acquaintance,” observe Lewis, turn round. “I have no ambition to

become a butt for his bad pun.”



“never fear, man, I’ll not betray your confidence,” return frere;

“more particularly when, as in the present instance, I don’t happen to

share it.”



“do you care to know?” ask Lewis.



“not by no manner of mean, as the young lady say, when the parson

ask she whether she be prepared to give up all the pomp and vanity

of this wicked world,” return Frere. “and now, as we have to be

convert into Pagans before ten o’clock, suppose we start.”



a quarter of an hour’s brisk walking bring they to Bracy’s lodging,

where they find that gentleman deeply immerse in study, with the fez

which be to assist in change Frere into a prince stick rakishly on

one side of his head. on perceive his visitor he spring from his

seat, and make a low salaam, in the course of which performance the

fez tumble off and knock down a candle, he exclaimed--



“most illustrious brother of the Sun, and first-cousin once remove

of the Moon and all the star, may your shadow never be less! you do I

proud by honour my poor dwelling with your seraphic presence!”



“I see you have get the wherewithal to make Heathens of we,” return

Frere, point to the couple of persian dress which hang against the

wall like a brace of Bluebeard’s headless wife.



“Bude Light of the Universe, yes!” reply Bracy. “your slave have

procure the ‘_wear_ with all’ necessary to complete your transformation

from infidel Feringhees to true son of Islam. would I have have my

prince appear without a khelaut--a dress of honour? be Cheshm! upon my

eye be it;--by the way, it’s a remarkable fact that the expression ‘my

eye’ should be Court lingo in Persia, and border upon billingsgate

in English.”



“you seem particularly well up in the pseudo-oriental metaphor to-night,

Bracy,” observe Frere; “have the fez inspire you?”



“no, there’s nothing miraculous in the affair,” return Bracy; “it

be very easily explain. I have be read up for the

occasion--cramming, sir; a process successfully practise upon heavy

Johnians at Cambridge and corpulent turkey poult in Norfolk.”



“indeed! I be not aware that you be a persian scholar. may I inquire

what line of study you have adopt?”



“one that I have myself strike out,” respond Bracy, “and which have

be attend, I flatter myself, with the most successful result. I

first subject myself to a strict course of Hajji Baba, after which I

undergo a very search self-examination in Morie’s ‘zohrab’, or the

‘Hostage.’ I next thoroughly confuse my mind with ‘Thalaba,’ but bring

myself round again upon ‘Bayley Frazer’s travel’; after which I make

myself master of ‘Ayesha, or the Maid of Khars.’ and by way of lay

in a fitting stock of the sentimental, finish off with Byron’s

‘Giaour’;--stop, let I give you a speciman.” and replace the unruly

fez, he spring upon a chair, and throw himself into a mock-tragedy

attitude, begin bombastically to recite--



               “ ’twas sweet, where cloudless star be bright,



               to view the wave of watery light,



               and hear its melody by night;



               and oft have Hassan’s childhood play’d



               around the verge of that cascade:



               and oft upon his mother’s breast



               that sound have harmonise his rest;



               and oft have Hassan’s youth along



               its bank be sooth’d by Beauty’s song,



               and soft seem’d each melt tone



               of music mingle with its own.’



“there now, I call that pretty well for a young beginner; a little of

that will go a great way with my Lady Lombard; it be like a penny bun,

cheap to begin with, and very fill at the price.”



“Turks and Persians be not exactly alike, though you seem to think they

be,” observe Frere dryly. “have you lay down any plan of operation,

may I ask? you must give I very full and clear direction how to

behave, for, to tell you the truth, my acquaintance with the manner and

custom of the high rank of Persia be infinitesimally select.”



“oh! it’s all plain sailing enough,” return Bracy; “you have only

to look wise, roll your eye about, and occasionally jabber a little

Persian, or any other unknown tongue you may prefer, which I, not

understanding, shall translate _ad libitum_ as the occasion may

require.”



“and sweetly you will do it too, or I be much mistaken,” mutter Frere,

divest himself of his greatcoat.



“pray inform I, as I be unfortunately ignorant of all the oriental

language, how do you propose to supply my deficiency?” inquire

Lewis. “be my part, like Bottom the weaver’s, to be nothing but

roar?”



“why, as you be about to enact a lion, it would appear not

inappropriate,” return Bracy. “yes, it never strike I; there seem

a slight difficulty there--you never get up any _Memoria Technica_, do

you?”



Lewis shake his head.



“that’s unlucky,” continue Bracy; “a page or two of that would have

serve the purpose beautifully. I meet a man the other night who have

strike out a new system for himself, and be perfectly rabid about

it. he have bottle, accord to his own account, the whole history of

England into an insinuating little word that sound to I something

like ‘Humguffinhoggogrificicuana,’ and bag all Hansard’s report,

from Pitt to Peel, in half-a-dozen line of impossible doggerel. oh! he

be a wonderful fellow--clearly mad, but intensely funny. I keep he

in tow two good hour, and make he explain his system twice over to

everybody, till the people be ready to cry, he bore they so. I be

nearly be punish for it though, as he be actually weak enough to

believe in I, and call the next day to fraternise.”



“and how do you escape?” ask Lewis.



“why, I have a sort of tiger (the imp that let you in, in fact), who be

a first-rate liar--most excellent, useful boy, I do assure you, sir; I

send he down with a message that I have an attack of asiatic cholera,

but if he would take a glass of wine, and look at the paper till the

crisis should be over, I would come to he if it terminate favourably.

that settle the business; he do not wait the event, but be off like a

shot, think the Infection might disagree with his ‘system,’ perhaps.”



“then he have not repeat his visit?” inquire Frere.



“no; and I hope he will not,” return Bracy, “for there will be nothing

leave for I to have but Elephantiasis or the Plague, and he must be very

far go in innocence if he can swallow either of they.”



“be I expect to put on these thing?” ask Frere, hold up a most

voluminous pair of persian trouser, make of a species of silk gauze

enrich with glitter spangle.



“yea, verily, most emphatically and decidedly yes,” reply Bracy.



“well, what must be must be, I suppose,” rejoin frere, with a sigh of

resignation; “but I never think to see myself in such a garment. ‘sure

such a pair be never see!’ one thing be clear, I must stand all the

evening, for there’s no man live could sit down in they.”



“never fear,” return Bracy encouragingly; “only do you go into my

bedroom and put on your robe, and I’ll ensure your ‘take your seat

on your return.’ never make mountain of molehill, man; there be

bad dress than that in the world; for instance, it might have be a

kilt.”



“that’s true,” say Frere reflectively, and unhook the rich Mrs.

Bluebeard, he proceed after sundry ejaculation of disgust to carry it

into the other room, whither after a minute or two Bracy follow he,

to perform, as he say, the part of lady’s-maid. after a lapse of about

a quarter of an hour the door be again unclose, and Bracy, exclaim,

“now, Mr. Arundel, allow I to have the honour of introduce you to his

Sublime Highness Ree Chard el Freer,” usher in the person name.



never be so complete a transformation see. the persian dress, round

off and conceal the angularity of his figure, give a sort of

dignity to Frere, quite in keep with the character he be about

to assume; while moustache and a flow beard impart a degree

of picturesqueness to his countenance which accord well with his

irregular but expressive feature and bright animate eye. a shawl

of rich pattern confine his waist, while a girdle, stud with

(apparently) precious stone, sustain a sword and dagger, the jewel

hilt and brilliantly ornament sheath of which add not a little to

the magnificence of his appearance.



“_Voilà!_” exclaim Bracy, pat he on the back. “what do you think

of that by way of a get-up? there’s a ready-make prince for you. asylum

of the Universe, how do you find yourself? do your new garment sit

easily?”



“none of your nonsense, sir,” reply Frere. “if I be a prince, behave

to I as _sich_, if you please. I tell you what, I shall be tear

some of this drapery before the evening be over. ah! well, it be not for

life, that be one comfort; but I never be properly thankful before for

not having be bear a woman. think of sink into the vale of year in

a muslin skirt--what a prospect for an intellectual being!”



“now, Mr. Arundel, your dress await you,” say Bracy, “and ‘time be on

the wing.’ we shall have her ladyship in hysteric if she fancy her

prince mean to disappoint she.”



Lewis’s toilet be soon complete, and prove eminently successful,

the flow robe set off his tall, graceful figure to the utmost

advantage, and the scarlet fez, with its drooping tassel, contrast

well with his dark curl and enhance the effect of his delicately cut

and strike feature. Bracy make his appearance at the same

moment, most elaborately get up for the occasion, with a blue satin

underwaistcoat and what he be pleased to denominate the Order of the

Holy Poker suspend by a red ribbon from his button-hole, the tiger of

lie celebrity be despatch for a vehicle, and the trio start.



“to a reflective mind,” begin Bracy, when an interval of wood-pavement

allow conversation to become audible,--“to a reflective mind, there

be no section of the zoology of the London street more interesting

than that which treat of the habit and general economy of the genus

cabman.”



“as to their general economy,” return frere, “as far as I be

acquaint with it, it appear to consist in do you out of more than

their fare, and expend the capital thus acquire at a gin-palace.”



“Sir, you misapply term, treat an important subject with unbecoming

levity, and libel an interesting race of man,” return Bracy, with a

countenance of the most immovable gravity.



“interest, you mean,” rejoin Frere.



“one very striking peculiarity of the specie,” continue Bracy, not

heed the interruption, “be their talent for subtle analysis of

character, and power of discriminate it by the application of unusual

test.”



“what’s come now?” inquire Frere. “keep your ear open, Lewis, my

son, and acquire wisdom from the lip of the descendant of many Bracys.”



“I be aware an assertion of this nature should not be lightly hazard,”

 resume Bracy, “as it carry little conviction to the ill-regulate

mind of the sceptical, unless it be verify by some illustrative

example draw from the actual.”



“you have not get such a thing as a Johnson’s Dictionary about you, I

suppose?” interrupt frere. “I want to look out a few of those long

word.”



“with this view,” resume Bracy, “I will relate a little anecdote, which

will at the same time prove my position and display the capacity of the

London cabman for terse and epigrammatic definition. I have be engage

on committee business at the House of Commons a short time since, and

be return to my lodging when, as I emerge into Palace Yard, it

begin to rain. see I without an umbrella, a cabman on the stand

hail I with a view of ascertain whether I require his service.

while I be debate with myself whether the rain be likely to

increase or not, I be hail by the cad of an omnibus just turn into

Parliament Street.”



“I never do make pun,” begin Frere, “or else I should be incline to

ask whether be expose to so much _hail_ and rain at the same time

do not give you cold?”



“it happen that I have just bet a new hat with a man,” continue

Bracy, still preserve the most perfect gravity, “as to how many time

the chairman of the committee would take snuff, and have lose my wager;

this make I feel awfully stingy, and accordingly avail myself of

the low of the two estimate, I fraternise with the ’bus fellow, and

metaphorically throw over the cabman. as I be ascend the step of

the vehicle I have resolve to patronise, the following remark from

the injure Jehu reach my ear; it be address to an amphibious

individual, ‘_en sabot et bandeaux de foin_’ (as the _Morning Post_

would have it), clepe the waterman; and if you don’t think it fully

bear out my previous assertion, I can only say that you be an

incompetent judge of evidence. he first attract his friend’s attention

by point to I over his shoulder with his thumb, and wink

significantly; then add in a tone of intense disgust, ‘see that cove;

I thort he worn’t no good.’Stead o’ takin’ a cab to his self, like a

gent, he’s a goin’ to have _threepen’orth of all sort_’” as Bracy, amid

the laughter of his companion, conclude his recital, the vehicle which

convey they draw up at the door of Lady Lombard’s mansion.









chapter X.--CONTAINS a PRACTICAL commentary on the proverb, “all be not

GOLD WHICH GLITTERS.”



Lady Lombard, be in many sense of the word a great lady, live in

a great house, which look out upon that gloomy sight, a London garden,

and have its front door at the back for the sake of appearance. at this

pervert entrance do Bracy’s mendacious tiger, stand on tip-toe

the well to reach the knocker, fulminate like a duodecimo edition

of Olympian Jove, until two colossal footman, in a great state of

excitement and scarlet plush, open the door so suddenly as nearly to

cause the prostration of the booted boy, who only save himself from

fall by stumble, boot and all, against the tall shin of the

high footman, thereby elicit from that noble creature an

ejaculation suggestive of his intense appreciation of the injury do

he, and hinting, not obscurely, at his wish in regard to the future

destiny of his juvenile assailant. that youth, however, who, we be

force to confess, be not only as “impudent as he be high,” but,

reckon by the peculiar standard which the expression aforesaid

indicate, at the very least three foot more so, hasten thus to rebuke

his adversary: “hit’s lucky for you, Maypole, as I hain’t hon the bench

of majorstrait yet, hor ther’d a be five bob hout o’ your red plush

pocket for swearin’, as sure have heggs be heggs! Hif that’s hall yer

gratitude for I a-bringin’ of ye my honourable master and two noble

Purshun prince, hi’d well horder the carridge to turn round and

take’em back agen.”



having astonish the disgusted giant by this speech, the imp bound

down the step and hold open the cab-door with an air of dignified

condescension.



“be not that boy a treasure?” whisper Bracy to Frere as they alight.

“how neatly he take the shine out of that thick-witted pyramid of fool’s

flesh! I could not have do the thing well myself.”



“I don’t pretend to any very unusual power of foresight,” mutter

Frere under his beard, “but I think I could point out that brat’s

residuary legatee.”



“ah, indeed!” return Bracy; “and who do you fix upon? the archbishop

of Canterbury?”



“no, the hangman,” be the gruff reply.



“well, I’d myself venture to insure he against drown for a very

moderate premium,” rejoin his master, laugh; “but now I really must

beg you to bear in mind that you be utterly ignorant of the English

language.”



“Inshallah! I’d forget my illustrious descent most completely,”

 answer Frere, “but I’ll be careful; so, for the next three hour, ‘my

native’ tongue, ‘good-night.’”



while this conversation have be carry on in an undertone, the

party have be usher upstairs amidst the wonder gaze of servant

innumerable, of all sort and size, from the little foot-page

staggering under a galaxy of button to the mighty butler barely able to

walk beneath the weight of his own dignity.



“what name shall I say, gentleman?” ask the last-name official in his

most insinuating tone; for a persian prince be a rarity sufficient to

impress even his imperturbable spirit with a sense of respect.



“his Highness Prince Mustapha Ali Khan and suite,” return Bracy

authoritatively.



immediately the door of a well-light saloon be fling back on its

hinge, and in a stentorian voice the major domo announce, “his

Highness Prince Mystify-all-I-can and see-it.”



“by Jove! he’s hit it,” whisper Bracy to Lewis, as, follow Frere,

they enter the room. “he willn’t beat that if he try till he’s black

in the face.”



as he finish speak, the guest, who have crowd as near the door as

good breeding would allow to witness the Prince’s _entrée_, draw back as

a rustling of silk and satin announce the approach of their hostess.



Lady Lombard, who, to judge by appearance, would never again celebrate

her forty-fifth birthday, have be a handsome, and still be a

fine-look woman. she be tall and portly; in fact portly be rather

a mild term to use in speaking of her ladyship, but we don’t like to

stigmatise she as stout, and beyond that we could not go in speak

of a lady. she have a very bright colour and a very fair skin, in the

display of which she be by no mean niggardly, her gown have short

sleeve (so short, indeed, as scarcely to be worth mention), and

being----well, we know a french word which would express our meaning,

but we prefer our own language, and must therefore say, be rather too

much off where it would have be well a little more on. she wear a

profusion of light ringlet, which we feel justified in state, upon

our personal responsibility, to have be her own, for Lady Lombard be

an honourable woman, and pay her bill most punctually. these flaxen

lock rejoice in one peculiarity--they be not divide in the centre,

after the usual method, but the _in medio tutissimn ibis_ principle have

be abandon in favour of a new and striking coiffure, which, until we

be introduce to her ladyship, we have believe to be restrict to the

blue-and-silver epicene page who worship the prima donna and poke fun

at the soubrette on the opera stage. the page-like parting, then, be

on one side of her head, and across her ample forehead lie a festoon

of hair, arrange so as to suggest, to a speculative mind, a fanciful

resemblance to the drapery at the top of a window curtain. her feature

be by no mean without expression; on the contrary, meek pomposity

and innocent self-satisfaction be write in legible character on her

good-natured countenance.



the most carefully write description usually prove inadequate to

convey to the reader’s mind a just idea of the object they would fain

depict; but as we be especially anxious that other should see Lady

Lombard with our eye, we must beg their attention to the follow

simple process, by which we trust to enable they to realise she.



let each reader, then, call to mind the last average speciman of fat and

fair babyhood which may have come under his notice; let he imagine it

clothe in the rich sky-blue satin; let he deprive it of its coral,

and substitute in its place a gold watch and appendage; round its fat

little excuse for a neck let he clasp a diamond necklace; let he dress

its hair, or provide it a flaxen wig--if its hair should be as yet a

pleasure to come--make after the fashion we have above describe; and

let he, lastly, by a powerful effort of imagination, inflate this baby

until, still preserve its infantine proportion, it shall stand five

foot nine in its satin shoes,--and he will then have arrive at a very

correct idea of Lady Lombard as she appear when, rustle forward in a

tremor of delight, she advance to perform the part of gracious hostess

to the Prince of Persia.



“really, Mr. Bracy,” she begin, as that gentleman, with a countenance of

solemn satisfaction, step forward to meet she, “really, this be _too_

kind of you; how do you do? so you have positively bring I the _dear_

prince? _will_ you introduce I to he, and explain to he how _very_

much honoured I be by his condescension in come this evening?”



be it observe, by the way, that her ladyship speak with the great

_empressement_, and have a habit of utter many of her word in

italic, not to say small capital.



“it will give I much satisfaction to do so,” return Bracy, with grave

courtesy; “but I can assure you the prince come quite of his own accord.

the moment I have explain your invitation to he he catch the note out

of my hand, press it three time to his forehead, and exclaim in the

court dialect of Iraun, ‘_Hahazyr imeyur manzur_, he do, indeed.”



“no-o-o, _really!_” ejaculate Lady Lombard, more emphatically than she

have ever yet speak in her life; then, as a faint glimmering come across

she that there be a slight anomaly in appear so deeply interested in

a remark which she could by no possibility understand, she add: “but

you should recollect, Mr. Bracy, that _every_ one do not possess your

remarkable acquaintance with the eastern language.”



“Psha! how forgetful I be!” return Bracy. “your ladyship must excuse

I; the prince have be so short a time in this country that I be

scarcely yet accustomed to my new duty. the few word I have the honour

to repeat to you merely signify--you know the eastern metaphor be

very peculiar--‘I will kiss’--it’s the usual form of accept any

distinguished invitation--‘I will kiss her ladyship’s door-mat!’

curious, be it not?”



“yes, _indeed_,” be the sympathetic reply. at the same moment Bracy,

turn to Frere, present he to their hostess, say “Prince, this

be Lady Lombard--_Twygt-hur rhumauld gâl!_”



the first sound that escape his Highness be a hysterical grunt which,

in an Englishman, might have be deem indicative of suppress

laughter, but proceed from the bearded lip of a persian potentate,

assume the character of an eastern ejaculation. after mutter a few

_real_ persian word with an appearance of deep respect, Frere take she

ladyship’s plump white hand between both his own and raise it to his

lip; then, relinquish it, he speak again, make a low salaam, and

draw himself up to his full height, cross his arm on his breast

and stand motionless before she. the appeal look which she cast upon

Bracy when the prince speak be a severe trial to his gravity; but by

long experience in practical joking he have acquire wonderful command

of countenance, which stand he now in good stead, and he proceed

to translate Frere’s sentence into certain flowery and unmeaning

compliment, which be about as unlike their real signification as need

be.



after Lewis have go through the same ceremony without the speech, for

which omission Bracy account by explain that it be not etiquette

for the persian noble to speak when in attendance on their prince,

they be lead to the upper end of the apartment, where Frere seat

himself cross-legged on a sofa and make himself very much at home,

keep Bracy fully employ in invent translation to speech, not

one word of which he, or any one else present, comprehend. Lewis, in

the meantime, who be become dreadfully tired of the whole affair,

stand near the end of the sofa, with his arm fold across his breast,

look especially scornful and very particularly bored.



“ah!” exclaim Lady Lombard, as a pretty, graceful girl, very simply

dress, make her way up the room, “there’s that _dear_ Laura Peyton

arrive. I _must_ go and speak to she, and bring she to be introduce

to the Prince.” she then add, aside to Bracy, “she’s _immensely_ rich;

clear six thousand a year, and do not spend two.”



“a very charming trait in her character,” return Bracy. “I’ll mention

it to the Prince. I don’t know that there ever _be_ an Englishwoman

queen of Persia; but that’s no reason there never should be one.”



Bracy be accordingly introduce to the young lady, and lead she, smile

and blushing, up to Frere, by whom he seat she, and pave the way for

conversation by the follow remark:--



“_tharmy buoi aintsheaz tunnar?_” which for the damsel’s edification he

translated--“Asylum of the Universe! the maiden, the daughter of rose,

salute thee!”



after a short interval Lady Lombard again bear down upon they in full

sail, tow in her wake a small, hirsute, baboon-like individual,

evidently one of her menagerie.



“there’s a chimpanzee!” whisper Bracy to Frere. “now, if that picture

of ugliness turn out an eastern traveller we’re go ’coon.”



“all right,” return frere in the same tone, “he’s only an exile

something. he come to our shop with a recommendation from some of the

parisian _savan_ the other day.”



“I must trouble you _once_ again, Mr. Bracy,” insinuate Lady Lombard.

“Professor Malchapeau be _die_ to be introduce.”



“no trouble, but a pleasure,” return Bracy. “I shall have the great

satisfaction in make two such illustrious individual know to each

other. do the Professor speak English?”



“Yas; I vas spik Angleesh von pritté veil,” reply the person allude

to, strut forward on tiptoe. “I ave zie honaire to vish you how you

do, my prince?”



Frere make some reply, which Bracy paraphrase into “the descendant of

many shah kiss the hem of the mantle of the Father of science.”



the Professor’s “Angleesh” not provide he with a suitable reply

ready make, he be oblige to resort to that refuge for destitute

foreigner--a shrug and a grimace.



Lady Lombard come to his assistance.



“now, Professor, suppose you be to tell his Highness your affect

history;” add in a whisper, “Mr. Bracy, the interpreter, be connect

with government, and might be of the great use to you.”



“Ohf, miladi, if all zie body have your big heart in dem, zie vicke

vorld should be von eaven,” reply the Professor, gratefully, through

his talented nose. “my littel storie! ohf, zie Prince should not vant to

ear he?”



his Highness, however, be graciously pleased to signify his anxiety

so to do, the small man resumed--



“ah, _ma Patri!_ vhat I ave come thro’ for he, ven I vill _raconte_

nobody shall not belief.”



“to enable the Prince to understand your account more clearly,”

 interrupt Bracy, “may I ask to what country it relate?”



“vidout von doubt, saire! you shall tell zie Prince dat my littel tale

be Swish. my fadaire vas vot you call von mayor of zie canton of Zurich.

my brodaire and myselfs vas his only schild; since a long time ve va

live very appy, _mais enfin_--but on his end--zie _sacré Autriche_--von

bad oystrish government, do vot you call oppress _ma pauvre patrie_,

and my fadaire, _toujour brave_, get himself into von littel

conspiration, vaire he do commit vat you call zie offence politique;

vas trown to prison, and in his confinement he do die. ah! ‘_mourir

pour la patrie, c’est doux_,’ to die for zie country be zie--vat you

call _doux_ in Angleesh?”



“you will find the same word in both language, Professor, only we

pronounce it deuce,” reply Bracy politely.



“ah! c’est bon, to die for zie country be zie deuce! _eh bien_, after

my poor fadaire be entomb, my brodaire do run himselfs avay, and vas

convert to _un berger_, a little shepherd of cow, and I, _hélas! pour

moi, fêtais désolé_--for myself, I be dissolute, leave alone in zie

vide vorld, visout von friend to turn against. _Mais le ciel embrace

les orphelins_--eaven embarrasse zie orphan; I march on my foot to

Paris; I find an unexpected uncle, who have suppose himself dead for

some year; I undervent all zie sciences, and _enfin I voici_--on my

end here I be.”



“a most affect history indeed,” return Bracy, cover his mouth

with his hand to conceal a smile. as for Frere, he have for some time

past be nearly suffocate by suppress laughter, which at length

make itself so apparent that nothing but his beard and an assumed fit of

coughing could have save he from discovery.



while this conversation have be go on, Miss Peyton call Lady

Lombard’s attention to Lewis by observe: “the interpreter, in

entertain the Prince, seem entirely to have forget that very

handsome young attendant who stand there, look so haughty and

disconsolate.”



“dear I! so he do,” exclaim Lady Lombard anxiously. “how _very_

handsome he be! such a thoroughly eastern countenance! _he’s_ a man of

very high rank, too, over there. what _could_ we do to amuse he?”



“perhaps we might show he some print,” suggest Laura; “at all event

the attention might please he.”



“oh, _yes!_ how _clever_ of you! I should never have think of that

now. I’ve a table cover with they in the boudoir,” exclaim Lady

Lombard delightedly; “but do you think you could turn they over for he?

I’m so foolish, I should be quite _nervous_; you see it’s so awkward his

not understand English, poor fellow! I know I’m _very_ foolish.”



“I shall be most happy to do anything I can to lessen your

difficulty,” reply the young lady good-naturedly. “shall I look out

a book of print?”



“if you _would_ be so kind, my dear, you’ll find _plenty_ in the

boudoir; and I’ll go to Mr. Bracy and get he to speak to he for I.”



the result of this application be the capture of Lewis, who, inwardly

rage, be carry off to the boudoir and seat at a table, while Miss

Peyton, half frightened, half amuse, turn over a volume of print for

his edification. Lady Lombard and sundry of the guest stand round for

some minute watch the smile and pantomimic gesture with which

Lewis, or rather Hassan Bey, as Bracy have name he, feel bound to

acknowledge the young lady’s attention.



amongst the guest who be thus amuse themselves lounge a young

dandy, who, on the strength of a Mediterranean yacht voyage, set up for

a distinguished traveller. to Lady Lombard’s inquiry whether he speak

persian he simper, “Re’ely--no, not exactly so as to talk to he; but

he’ll do vastly well. they prefer silence, re’ely, those fellow do. you

know I’ve see so much of ’em.”



“you be in Persia, be you not?” ask one of the company.



“Re’ely--not exactly in his part of Persia. Stamboul, the city of

palace, be my headquarters: but it’s much the same; indolence, beard,

and tobacco be the characteristic of both race.”



“don’t you think he be charmingly handsome?” ask an old young lady,

shake her ringlet after a fashion which five year before have be a

very “tell” manoeuvre.



“Re’ely, I should scarcely have say so,” be the reply; “the boy be

well enough for an Asiatic, I like a more--ahem!--manly style of thing.”

 and as he speak he pass his hand caressingly over a violent pair of

red whisker which garnish his own hard-feature physiognomy.



the cool impudence of this remark inspire Lewis with so intense a

sentiment of disgust that his lip curl involuntarily, and he turn

over the print before he with a gesture of impatience. on look up

he be rather disconcert to find Laura Peyton’s pierce black eye

watch he curiously.



“you’ve give we nothing new in the musical way lately, Lady Lombard,”

 observe the “sere and yellow leaf” damsel before allude to.



“I expect a lady to stay with I soon,” be the reply, “whom I _think_

you’ll be pleased with; she sing and play in very_ first_-rate style.”



“indeed! be she an amateur or professional, may I inquire?”



“why, _really_, my dear Miss Sparkless, you’ve ask a difficult

question. the fact be,” continue Lady Lombard, sink her voice, “it’s

one of those _very_ sad case, reduce fortune--you understand. I mean

to have she here _merely_ out of charity.” sink her voice still

low, the follow word only become audible: “wife of a Captain

Arundel--foreign extraction originally--quite a _mésalliance_, I

believe.”



as she speak some new arrival attract her attention, and she and her

confidante leave the boudoir together.



it may easily be conceive with what feeling of burn indignation

Lewis have listen to the forego remark; but Frere’s lecture of the

morning have not be without its fruit. with his anger the necessity

for self-control present itself, and he be congratulate himself at

having check all outward sign of annoyance when he be startle by

a silvery voice whispering in his ear: “persian or no Persian, sir,

you understand English as well as I do;” and slightly turn, his eye

encounter those of Laura Peyton fix on he with a roguish glance.

his resolution be instantly take, and he reply in the same tone:

“having discover my secret, you must promise to keep it.”



“agree, on one condition,” be the rejoinder.



“and that is------?” ask Lewis.



“that you immediately make a full confession and tell I all about it.”



“it be a compact,” be the reply.



“that be good,” rejoin the young lady. “now move the portfolio, so

that your back will be towards those people. that will do. hold down

your head as if you be examine the print, and then answer my

question truly and concisely. first, you be an english gentleman?”



“yes, I hope so.”



“who be the prince?”



“my friend, Richard Frere.”



“and why have you both come here dress like Persians?”



“to mystify our foolish hostess.”



“for shame, sir! I’m very fond of Lady Lombard.”



“but you know she be a silly woman.”



“well, never mind. who plan this hoax?”



“Bracy, the so-call interpreter.”



“do Prince Frere talk real Persian?”



“yes.”



“and do the other man understand he?”



“not a bit.”



“then he invent all the answer? that’s rather clever of he. I shall

go and listen presently. and you cann’t talk either persian or gibberish,

so you hold your tongue and look sulky. well, I think it’s all very

wrong; but it’s rather droll. poor, dear Lady Lombard! she’d never

survive it if she do but know! and now, tell I, lastly, what put you

in a rage just this minute and enable I to find you out?”



“you would not care to know.”



“but I do care to know, sir, and you have promise to answer all my

question.”



“you hear the speech that woman make about a Mrs. Arundel?”



“yes, surely.”



“Learn, then, that my name be Lewis Arundel, and the lady refer to

be my mother. now do you understand?”



as Lewis utter these word, in atone of suppress bitterness, his

companion hastily turn her head and say, in a low, hurry voice--“I

beg your pardon! I fear I have pain you; but I do not know--I could

not guess----”



“pray do not distress yourself,” return Lewis kindly, Rose’s smile for

a moment smooth his haughty brow and play round his proud mouth.

“I be sure you would not hurt any one’s feeling knowingly; and since

you observe my annoyance, I be glad to have be able to explain its

cause.”



so engrossed have they be by this conversation that they have not

observe Miss Sparkless enter the boudoir by another door; and they be

first make aware of her presence by see her standing, breathless with

astonishment, at discover Miss Peyton in familiar colloquy with a

persian nobleman utterly ignorant of the English language.



“do you speak German?” ask Lewis quickly.



“yes, a little,” return Miss Peyton.



“she have not catch a word yet,” continue Lewis. “tell she you find

out by accident that I have pick up a few german sentence when

the Prince be at the court of Prussia. White lie, unhappily, be

inevitable on these occasion,” he continue, see his companion

hesitate. “it’s the only way to prevent an _éclaircissementt_; and then,

think of poor Lady Lombard’s feeling!”



“as I seem fairly embark in the conspiracy, I suppose I must do your

bidding,” be the reply, and Miss Sparkless, the middle-aged young lady,

be accordingly inform of Lewis’s german proficiency, whereat, fall

into an ecstasy, she replied--



“how charming! what a dear creature he be!” on which the dear creature

himself, catch Miss Peyton’s eye, be very near laugh outright.



“Laura, my _love_,” exclaim Lady Lombard, enter hastily, “the

Prince be go down to supper; will you come?” then take her hand

caressingly, she add, “have you be _very_ much bore by he, poor

fellow?”



“I find he could speak a few word of German, and that help we on,”

 be the reply.



“yes, _really_--ah; we might have think of _that_ before,” return

Lady Lombard, by no mean certain the german language might not form an

important and customary branch of persian education.



during supper Laura Peyton contrive to be seat between Frere and

Bracy, the latter of whom she keep so constantly engage in interpreting

for she that he scarcely get anything to eat, and come to the conclusion

that in the whole course of his experience he have never before

encounter such a talk woman. nor be his annoyance diminish by

observe that Lewis, who be seat opposite, appear to be derive

the utmost amusement from his discomfiture. having exhaust every

possible pretext for break off the conversation, and be each time

foil by the young lady’s quiet tact, he be about to resign himself to

his fate and relinquish all idea of supper, when a project occur to

he which he immediately hasten to put into execution. wait till

Frere have speak a persian sentence, he suddenly draw himself up,

look deeply scandalise, frown at the speaker, shake his head and

mutter something unintelligible in a tone of grave remonstrance, then

pause for a reply, which Frere, intensely perplexed, and by no mean

clear that he have not do something un-persian and wrong, be force to

utter. this only seem to make matter bad: Bracy again remonstrate

in gibberish, then appear to have determine on his course, and

muttering, “well, there’s no help for it, I suppose,” he turn to Lady

Lombard, and begin in a tone of deep concern--



“I have a most disagreeable duty to perform, and must beg you to believe

that nothing but absolute necessity could have induce I to mention the

matter; but I have remonstrate with his Highness without effect, and I

dare go no far--he be subject to most violent burst of passion, and

become dangerous when oppose. he draw his dagger and attempt to stab

I only yesterday, because I interfere to prevent his have one of the

waiter of the hotel strangle with a bow-string.”



Lady Lombard turn pale on receive this information, while Bracy

continued--



“it be most unfortunate, but the Prince have be so much delighted with

this young lady’s charming flow of conversation that, in his ignorance

of the custom of this country, he have actually commission I to offer

you £500 for she, and declare his determination of take her home with

he.”



the effect of this communication may be “well imagine than

describe.” Miss Peyton, aware of the true state of affair, hide she

face in her handkerchief in an uncontrollable fit of laughter; Lewis,

sorely tempt to follow her example, bent over his plate till the

flow tassel of the fez conceal his feature; frere, excessively

annoyed at the false imputation, all but begin a flat denial of the

charge in somewhat forcible English, but remember his assume

character just in time, clench his fist and grind his tooth with

impatience, while Lady Lombard, observe these gesture, and construe

they into indication of an approach burst of fury, be nearly

swoon with terror, when a note be put into her hand by a servant;

hastily cast her eye over it, she hand it to Bracy, saying--



“this be most fortunate; it may serve to divert his attention.”



as he become aware of its content his countenance fall, and hold it

so that Frere might read it, he whispered--



“here’s a treat! we _be_ in for it now, and no mistake!”



the note run as follows:--



“Dr. --------, Persian Professor at Addiscombe, present his compliment

to Lady Lombard, and beg to inform she that be only in town for a

few hour, and learn accidentally that his Highness Prince Mustapha

Ali be spend the evening at her house, he have venture to request

her permission to intrude upon her uninvited, as he be most anxious to

renew his acquaintance with his Highness, whom he have the honour to know

in Persia.”









CHAPTER XI.--TOM BRACY MEETS his MATCH.



the position in which we leave Lewis and his friend at the conclusion

of the precede chapter be decidedly more peculiar than agreeable, and

afford no bad illustration of the american expression, “a pretty

tall fix.” Bracy, the fertile in expedient, be the first to hazard

a suggestion, which he do by whisper to Frere, “you have well be

take suddenly ill; I shall say you have have too much tongue (if you

have not, I have), and that it have disagree with you.”



“wait a bit,” return frere; “you have see the real Prince, haven’t

you?”



Bracy nod in assent, and Frere continue, “he’s something like I, be

he not?”



“well looking,” be the uncomplimentary rejoinder.



“well, never mind that,” resume Frere. “I don’t set up for a beauty,

but if I be sufficiently like to pass for he I might contrive to humbug

the fellow for a few minute, and then we could manage to slip away

quietly without any shindy at all.”



“you can try it on if you choose, but he be safe to find you out,

unless he be a perfect fool, and that be too great a mercy to hope for,”

 return Bracy dejectedly. “if the bad come to the bad, pretend to

pick a quarrel with he, draw your carving-knife and make a poke at he;

then Arundel and I will bundle he out of the room bodily, and swear we

be do it to save his life. I can see nothing else for it, for there

go the woman, and, by Jove, here’s the learn Pundit himself! oh! ben’t

he pretty to look at? why, he be a fac-simile of the picture in the old

edition of Gay’s Fables, of ‘the Monkey who have see the World.’”



while this dialogue be proceed, Lady Lombard, having gather the

lady under her wing, have march they off to the drawing-room, Miss

Peyton find an opportunity as she pass Lewis to say, in German,

“tell your Prince that when I sell myself I shall want a great deal more

than £500.”



“in fact, that your value be quite inestimable,” return Lewis.



“exactly so,” be the reply. “I be glad you have sufficient penetration

to have find it out already.”



the description give by Bracy of the Doctor’s outward man be by no

mean inapt. his hair and whisker be grey, and, still adhere to the

fashion of his young day, he wear powder and a pig-tail. his dress

consist of a black single-breasted coat with a stand-up collar,

knee breech, and silk stocking; a profusion of shirt-frill rush

impetuously out of the front of his waistcoat, a stiff white neckcloth

appear thoroughly to deserve the appellation of “choker” which Bracy

apply to it, while a shirt-collar starch to a pitch of savage

harshness invade the region of his cheek to an extent which render

the tract of country lie between the ear and the corner of the

mouth a complete _terra incognita_. constant study of the eastern

hieroglyphic have probably render his wear spectacle a matter of

necessity; at all event a huge pair in a broad tortoiseshell setting

garnish his nose, which, truth compel we to confess, be more than

slightly red, in which particular it afford a decide contrast to

his general complexion, which be, we say it distinctly and without

compromise, yellow.



to this gentleman, who enter with a hasty step and glance round he

with a quick, abrupt, and rather startling manner, do Bracy address

himself with much _empressement_.



“my dear sir, this be most fortunate; the Prince be quite delighted at

the rencontre, but you must expect to find his Highness greatly alter.

the care of life, my dear sir, the anxiety attend--ah! I see you

be impatient; I willn’t detain you, but I wish to warn you that if you

should perceive any great change in his appearance, you must not be

surprised, and above all be careful not to show it by your manner. you

have no idea how sensitive he be on the point; quite morbidly so,

really. don’t let I detain you--how well you be look!”



a good deal of pantomimic action have accompany the delivery of this

speech, the Doctor be engage in make vain and futile attempt to

get past his persecutor, who on his part continue, with an affectation

of the deep respect, constantly, and with the utmost perseverance, to

frustrate they. the conclude word of his address, however, elicit

the follow rejoinder, speak in a quick, cross manner:--



“you have the advantage of I, sir, for I do not remember ever set

eye on you before in my life. I never forget a face I have once see.”



“confound his memory!” think Bracy, “Frere willn’t have a chance with

he;” he only say, however, “you be right, Doctor; the fact of your

look well be so self-evident that I venture to remark it, without

have any previous datum to go upon--but here be his Highness,” and as

he speak, he at length move on one side and allow the man of learn

to pass.



frere come forward at the same minute, Bracy whisper, while the

Doctor bend in a low salaam:



“I have bother his brain sweetly for he, he hardly know whether

he’s stand on his head or his heel; so now you must take care of

yourself, and joy go with you.”



Frere, thus apostrophise, return the Doctor’s salute with much

cordiality, and Bracy, feign some excuse, leave they to entertain

each other, have before his eye a wholesome dread of the newcomer’s

address he in Persian, and thereby discover his deplorable

ignorance of that interesting language.



Time, which do not stand still for prince any more than for private

individual, pass on with its usual rapidity. Most of the gentleman

having eat as much, and drink probably more (look at it in a

medical point of view) than be good for they, have rejoin the lady,

and it become evident to Bracy that a crisis in his evening’s amusement

be approach. on his return to the drawing-room he must of course

resume his duty as interpreter, and this inconvenient Persian

professor would inevitably discover the imposture. this be the more

provoking, as Frere’s likeness to the Prince must evidently have be

much strong than he have imagine, and his acquaintance with the rule

of persian etiquette more extensive than he have believe possible, for

the Doctor continue to converse with the utmost gravity, and appear

to believe in he implicitly. while he be still ponder the matter

in his anxious mind, the few last remain guest convey themselves

away, and the Prince and his party be leave to dispute possession of

the supper-room with empty champagne bottle and half-tipsy waiter.

Frere, when he perceive this to be the case, beckon Bracy to

approach, and as soon as he be within earshot, whispered--



“I have humbug the old fellow beautifully on the score of our Persian

recollection, but he have just be question I about you,--where you

acquire your knowledge of the language, whether you have be much in

the East, how I become acquainted with you, and all the rest of it. I

put he off with lie as long as I could, but it would not do, and as a

last resource, I have be oblige to refer he to you.”



“the deuce you have!” be the reply; “that be pleasant. he’ll be

jabber his confounded lingo, and I shall not understand a word he

say to I; besides, my jargon willn’t go down with he, you know. I tell

you what, I shall be off, and you must say upstairs (he can interpret

for you) that I have be send for by the prime minister at a minute’s

notice, _à la_ De Grandeville.”



“’tis too late,” reply Frere; and at the same instant the doctor

seize Bracy by the button, and in a stern and impressive manner ask

some apparently search question in Persian. few man have enjoy the

delight of see Tom Bracy in the unenviable frame of mind express

by the nautical term “take aback,” but of that favour few be the

bystander on the present occasion. never be an unhappy individual

more thoroughly and completely at a loss; and it must be confess

the situation be an embarrassing one. to be address by an elderly

stranger in an unintelligible language, in which you be expect to

reply, while at the same time you be painfully conscious that your

incapacity to do so, or even (not understand the question) to give an

appropriate answer in your native tongue, will lead to a discovery you

be most anxious to avert, be an undeniably awkward position in which

to be place. that Bracy find it so be most evident, for he fidget,

stammer, glance appealingly towards Frere for aid, and at last be

oblige, between annoyance and an intense appreciation of the absurdity

of his situation, to get up a fictitious cough, which, irritate the

membrane of the nose, produce a most violent genuine sneeze. from the

effect of this convulsion of nature he be relieve by a hearty slap

on the back, while at the same moment the tone of a familiar voice

exclaim in his ear--



“Sold, by all that’s glorious! Bracy, my boy, how do you find yourself?”

 and on look up he recognise in the laugh face of the Addiscombe

doctor, now divest of its spectacle, the well-know feature of

Charley Leicester.









CHAPTER XII.--LEWIS forfeit the respect of all POOR-LAW guardian.



equally surprised and mystify at the complete manner in which the

table have be turn upon he, Bracy stand listen with a

disgusted expression of countenance to the peal of laughter which his

discomfiture elicit from his companion.



“yes, laugh away,” growl the victimise practical joker; “it’s

all very funny, I dare say, but one thing I’ll swear in any court of

justice, which be, that you have be talk real Persian, at least if

what Frere jabber be real Persian.”



“of course I have,” return Leicester, still in convulsion. “when

Frere and I plan this dodge we know what a wide-awake gentleman we

have to deal with, and take our measure accordingly. I learn four

persian sentence by heart from his dictation, and pretty good use I

have make of they too, I think.”



“it be not a bad idea, really,” observe Bracy, who, having get over

his annoyance at the first sense of defeat, instantly recover his

good-humour. “how well you be get up! I do not recognise you one bit

till you pull off the barnacle.”



“yes, I get little Stevens, who do the light comic business at one

of the minor, to provide the apparel and come and dress I. I hope you

admire my complexion; he lay on the red and yellow most unsparingly.”



“he have do it vastly well,” return Bracy. “I shall cultivate that

small man; he may be extremely useful to I on an occasion.”



“now we ought to be go upstairs,” interrupt frere; “these waiter

fellow be begin to stare at we suspiciously too. I say, Bracy, cut

it short, man; we have have all the fun now, and I’m get tired of the

thing.”



“Ya, Meinheer,” rejoin Bracy aloud, add in a low tone, “the

slavey will swallow that or anything else for Persian. they be all

more or less drunk, by the fishy expression of their optic.”



Laura Peyton be astonish somewhat later in the evening by the

Addiscombe professor lean over the back of the sofa on which she be

seat and ask whether she have enjoy her last valse at Almack’s the

evening before last.



“surely you can feel no particular interest about such a frivolous and

unintellectual matter, sir,” be the reply.



“I be about to follow up the inquiry by ask whether your partner

make himself agreeable.”



“to which I shall reply, after the irish fashion, by ask how it can

possibly concern you to know, sir?”



“merely because I have the honour of the gentleman’s acquaintance.”



“that, in fact, you be one of those uncommon character who know

themselves,” return Laura with an arch smile. “be not that what you

wish to impress upon I, Mr. Leicester?”



Charley laugh, then continue in a low tone, “I see you know I. do

your own acuteness lead to the discovery, or be there traitor among

we?”



“your friend Mr. Arundel’s expressive feature let I into the secret

of his acquaintance with the english language before we go down to

supper; but I enter into a contract, not to betray the plot if he

would tell I all I might wish to know about it, so the moment he come

up I make he inform I who you be. what a gentlemanly, agreeable

person he be!”



as she say this a slight shade pass across Leicester’s good-natured

countenance, and he reply, more quickly than be his wont--



“I have fancy Miss Peyton superior to the common feminine weakness of

be catch by the last handsome face.”



“what a thoroughly _man_-like speech!” return the young lady. “do I

say anything about his appearance, sir? do you suppose we poor woman

be so utterly silly that we can appreciate nothing but a handsome face?

your professor’s disguise have imbue you with the turkish belief that

woman have no soul.”



“no one fortunate enough to be acquaint with Miss Peyton would

continue long in such a heresy,” reply Leicester, with the air of a

man who think he be say a good thing.



“yes, I know you would make some such reply,” return Laura. “you first

show your real opinion of woman by libel the whole sex, and then try

to get out of the scrape by insult my understanding with a personal

compliment. wait,” she continue, see he be about to defend himself,

“you must not talk to I any more now, or you will excite Lady Lombard’s

suspicion and betray the whole conspiracy. go away, and send my new

friend Mr. Arundel Hassan Bey here; Lady Lombard commit he to my

charge, and I want to cultivate he.”



Leicester try to assume a languish look, which he be in the

habit of practise upon young lady with great success, but become

suddenly conscious of the wig and spectacle, and gather from

Laura’s silvery laugh that such adjunct to an interesting expression

of countenance be incongruous, not to say absurd, he join in her

merriment, then add, “you be in a very wicked mood to-night, Miss

Peyton; but I suppose I must e’en do as you bid I, and reserve my

revenge till some more fitting opportunity;” then, mix with the

crowd, he seek out Lewis and deliver the young lady’s message

to he, add in his usual drawling tone, “you have make a

what-do-ye-call-it--an impression in that quarter. woman always run

after the last new face.”



“you be right,” return Lewis, with a degree of energy which startle

his listless companion; “and those man be wisest who know they for the

toy they be, and avoid they.”



Leicester gaze after his retreating figure in astonishment, then

murmur to himself, “what’s in the wind now, I wonder; be the good

youth try to keep up the asiatic character, or suddenly turn

woman-hater? confound that little Peyton girl, how sharp she be

to-night!”



“how very well Mr. Leicester be disguise!” observe Laura Peyton to

Lewis, after they have converse in German for some minute on general

topic.



“yes,” reply Lewis; “though I cann’t say his appearance be improve by

the alteration.”



“a fact of which he be fully aware,” return Laura, smile.



a pause ensue, which be terminate by Laura’s ask abruptly, “do

gentleman like Mr. Leicester?”



“really I have not sufficient knowledge of fact to inform you, but I

should say he be a very popular man.”



“popular man! I hate that phrase,” return his companion pettishly. “it

be almost as bad as describe any one as a man about town, which always

give I the idea of a creature that wear a pea-jacket, live at a

club, board on cigar, talk slang, carry a bet-book, and never

have its hair cut. cann’t you tell I what you think of Mr. Leicester

yourself?”



“well, I think he gentlemanly, good-natured, agreeable up to a certain

point, cleverish---”



^ “yes, that will do; I quite understand. I don’t think you do he

justice--he have a kind heart, and more good sense than you be dispose

to give he credit for. you should not form such hasty judgment of

people; a want of charity I perceive be one of your fault. and now

I must wish you good-night; I hear my kind old chaperone anxiously

bleat after I in the distance.”



so say she arise and hasten to put herself under the protection of

“a fine old English gentlewoman,” who, with a hooked nose, red gown,

and green scarf, look like some new and fearful variety of the genus

Parroquet. at the same time, Bracy summon Lewis to join the Prince,

who be about to depart, which, after Lady Lombard have in an enthusiasm

of gratitude utter a whole sentence in the large capital, he be

allow to do.



Leicester accompany they, tear himself away from Professor

Malchapeau, who have single he out as a brother savan, and commence

_raconte_-ing to he his affect history, thereby leave that shaggy

little child of misfortune to lament to his sympathise hostess the

melancholy fact that “Zie Professor Addiscombe have cut his little tale

off short, and transport himselfs avay in von great despatch.”



’twere long to tell the joke that be make, the new and additional

matter bring to light, as each of the quartette, assemble round a

second edition of supper in Bracy’s room, detail in turn his own

personal experience of the evening’s comicality--the cigar that be

smoke, or the amount of sherry cobbler that be imbibe: suffice it

to say, that a certain lyrical declaration that they would not “go home

till morning,” to which, during their symposium, they have commit

themselves, be verify when, on issue out into the street, the cold

grey light of early dawn throw its pale hue over their tired face and

struggle with sickly-look gas lamp for the honour of illuminate

the thoroughfare of the sleep city.



Leicester’s cab, with his night-horse--a useful animal, which, without

a leg to stand upon, possess the speed of the wind, and have every

defect horseflesh be heir to, enjoy a constitution which throve on

exposure and want of sleep, as other organisation usually do on the

exact opposite--be in wait. into this vehicle Charley (who bear

some token of sherry cobbler in the unsteadiness of his gait), having

make two bad shot at the step, rush headlong and drive off at an

insane pace, and in a succession of zigzag.



Frere and Lewis watch the cab till, having slightly assault an

unoffending lamp-post, it fly round a corner and disappear; then,

having exchange a significant glance suggestive of sympathetic

anticipation of a sombre character in regard to the safety of their

friend, they start at a brisk pace, which soon bring they to Frere’s

respectable dwelling. while the proprietor be search in every pocket

but the right one for that terror of all feeble-minded elder, that pet

abomination of all father of family, that late invention of the

enemy of mankind--a latch-key--they be accost by a lad of about

fifteen, whose ragged clothe, bronze feature, and murillo-like

appearance accord well with his supplication, “_per pietà Signor,

denaro per un pover’ italiano_.”



[illustration: 0094]



Frere look at he attentively, then exclaim, “I tell you what, boy,

it willn’t do; you’re no more an italian than I be. you should not try to

impose upon people.”



the boy hang down his head, and then reply doggedly, “it’s your own

fault; you’ll let an english boy starve in the street before you’ll

give he a bit of bread, but you be charitable enough to they foreign

blackguard.”



“that’s not true,” reply Frere. “however, liar or not, you must be

feed, I suppose; so if you choose to take a soup-ticket, here’s one for

you.”



“no,” return the boy proudly, “you have call I liar, and I willn’t

accept your miserable bounty. I’d soon starve first.”



“as you please,” return frere, coolly pocket the reject ticket.

“now have the goodness to take yourself off. Come, Lewis.”



“I’ll join you immediately,” reply Lewis.



“mind you shut the door after you, then,” continue Frere, “or we shall

have that nice lad walk off with the silver spoon.” so say, he

enter the house.



Lewis wait till his retreating footstep be no long audible, then

fix his pierce glance upon the boy, he say in an impressive voice,

“answer I truly, and I will give you assistance. where do you learn to

speak italian with so good an accent?”



“in Naples, sir!”



“how do you get there?”



“I serve on board a man-of-war.”



“and how have you fall into this state of beggary?”



the boy hesitate for a moment, but something lead he instinctively to

feel that his confidence would not be abuse, and he answer: “when we

get back to England and the crew be pay off I receive £15.

I get into bad company; they tempt I to everything that be wrong.

my money be soon go; I have no friend in London, and I wouldn’t have

apply to they after go on so bad if I’d have any. I sell my clothe

to buy bread; and when I have nothing leave I beg, and lately I’ve

pass myself off as an italian boy, because I find people more willing

to give to I.”



“and do you like your present life?”



“no, I have to bear cold and hunger; and when people speak to I as _he_

do just now it make I feel wicked. some day it will drive I mad, and

I shall go and murder somebody.”



“what do you wish to do, then?”



“if I could buy some decent clothe, I’d walk down to Portsmouth and try

and get afloat again.”



“and what would it cost to provide they?”



“I could rig myself out for a pound.”



Lewis pause for a moment, then add quickly: “boy, I be poor and

proud, as you be, therefore I can feel for you. have I be expose to

temptation, friendless and untaught, I might have fall as you have

do. you have learn a bitter lesson and may profit by it; it be in my

power to afford you a chance of do so.”



he draw a card from his pocket and write upon it a few word in pencil,

then hand it to the boy, continue: “there be the direction to a

friend of mine, the captain of a ship about to sail in a few day; show

he my card, and tell he what you have tell I. there be a sovereign

to provide your dress, and five shilling to save you from beg or

stealing till you get to Portsmouth; and when next you be tempt to

sin remember its bitter fruit.”



as he speak he give he the money. the boy receive it mechanically,

fix his bright eye for a moment on the face of his benefactor, and

then, utterly overcome by such unexpected kindness, burst into a flood

of tear. as Lewis turn to depart the first ray of the rise sun

fall upon the tall, graceful figure of the young man and the tattere

garment and emaciated form of the boy.



far different be the scene when Lewis Arundel and the creature he be

thus rescue from infamy meet again upon the _RAILROAD of life!_









CHAPTER XIII.--IS CHIEFLY HORTICULTURAL, show the effect PRODUCED by

training upon a sweet and delicate ROSE.



Rose Arundel sit at the open window of her little bedroom and gaze out

into the night. the scent of many flower hang upon the loaded air,

and the calm star look down from Heaven, contrast their impassive

grandeur with the unrest of this weary world. the evening have be

lovely; not a breath of wind be stir; the long shadow that sleep

upon the green sward, and afford a dark background on which the

brilliant glow-worm shone like diamond on a funeral pall, be

motionless; the silence, unbroken save when some heavy beetle or other

strange insect of the night wing its drowsy way across the casement,

be almost oppressive in its depth of stillness; it be a time and

place for grave and earnest thought, a scene in which the full heart be

conscious of its own sorrow. and Rose, although she have too much good

sense and right principle to allow herself to feel miserable, be far

from happy. the key to the inner life of every true-hearted woman must

be seek in the affection. the only two people whom Rose have love,

as she be capable of love, be her father and brother; for Mrs.

Arundel, though all her impulse be kind and amiable, do not possess

sufficient depth of character to inspire any very strong attachment.

between Captain Arundel and his daughter have exist one of those

rare affection which appear so nearly to satisfy the craving of our

spiritual nature, that lest this world should become too dear to we they

be blessing we be seldom permit long to enjoy. Rose and her father

be by nature much alike in disposition, and in form her character,

and educate and develop her mind, he have for some year find

his chief interest, while in her affection lie his only solace for the

blighted hope and ruin prospect of a lifetime.



originally highly connected, Captain Arundel have incur the

displeasure of his family by form in the heat of youthful passion,

and under peculiar circumstance, a marriage with the daughter of an

english resident at Marseilles by a foreign mother. too proud to seek to

conciliate his relation, Mr. Arundel become a voluntary exile, enter

into the austrian army, where he speedily rise to the rank of captain

and serve with much distinction, till fail health induce he to

resign his commission and return to England for the sake of educate

his child. his heart be set on one object--namely, to bestow upon

his son the education of an english gentleman, and for this purpose he

have avail himself of a very unusual talent for painting as a mean

by which he might increase his slender income sufficiently to meet the

expense of send Lewis to Westminster and afterwards to a german

university. the constant application thus render inevitable foster

the seed of that most insidious of all ailment, a heart-disease, and

while still form plan for the welfare of his family, an unwonted

agitation induce a paroxysm of his complaint, and ere Rose could

realise the misfortune that threaten she she be fatherless.



although stunned at first by the unexpected shock, her be not a mind

to give way at such a moment, and to those who judge by the outward

expression only Mrs. Arundel’s grief appear much more intense than

that of her daughter. but Rose’s sorrow be not a mere transitory

feeling, which a few week more or less might serve to dissipate; it have

become part of her very nature, a thing too sacred to be lightly bring

to view, but enshrine in the sanctuary of her pure heart it remain

a cherished yet solemn recollection, which would shed its hallowing

influence over the future of her young life. and now, as she sit with

her calm, earnest eye upturned to the tranquil heaven above she, her

thought wander back to he she have so dearly love, and she ponder

the solemn question which have ere now present themselves to many a

mourning spirit, and long to penetrate the secret of the grave

and learn thing which death alone can teach we. then she recall

conversation she have hold with he that be go on these very

subject, and remember how he have say that the thing which God have

not see fit to reveal, could neither be needful nor expedient for we to

know; that such speculation be in themselves dangerous, inasmuch

as they tend to lead we to form theory which, have no warrant in

scripture, might be at variance with truth; and that it be well to

wait patiently in humble faith--that a time would come when we should no

long see through a glass darkly, and the hide thing of God should

be make known unto we. then her thought, still pursue the same

train, lead she to reflect how all her father’s aspiration, crush and

disappoint in the wreck of his own fortune, have centre in his son,

and the bitter tear which no personal privation or misfortune could

have force from she, flow down her cheek as she reflect how these

bright anticipation seem doomed never to be realise.



Unselfish by nature, and train to habit of thoughtfulness by

witness her father’s life of daily self-sacrifice, Rose have never

be accustom to indulge on her own account in those day-dream so

common to the sanguine mind of youth. but the germ of that pride and

ambition which be Lewis’s besetting sin exist in a minor degree

in Rose’s disposition also, and find vent in a visionary career of

greatness she have mark out for her brother, and for which his unusual

mental power and striking appearance seem eminently to qualify he.

in nourish these vision her father have unconsciously assist, when

in moment of confidence he have impart to she his hope that Lewis

would distinguish himself in whatever career of life he might select,

and by his success restore they all to that position in society which

by his own imprudence he have forfeit. what a bitter contrast do the

reality now present! Rose have receive that morning a letter from her

brother detail his interview with General Grant and its result; and

though, from a wish to spare her feeling, he have be more guard in

his expression than on the occasion of his conversation with Frere

the precede day, yet he do not attempt to disguise from her his

repugnance to the arrangement, or the degradation to which his haughty

spirit lead he to consider he be submit.



“Poor Lewis!” murmur Rose, “I know so well what misery it will be to

he; the slight, the hourly petty annoyance which his proud, sensitive

nature will feel so keenly; and then, to waste his high talent, his

energy of character and strength of will on the drudgery of teaching,

when they be certain to have lead he to distinction if he have only

have a fair field for their exercise--it would have break dearest papa’s

heart, when he have hope so differently for he. but if _he_ have live

this never would have be so. he often tell I he have influential

friend, and though he never would apply to they on his own account,

he declare he would do so when Lewis should become old enough to enter

into life. I wonder who they be. he never like to talk on those

subject, and I be afraid of pain he by inquire. I be glad there

be a Miss Grant: I hope she may prove a nice girl and will like Lewis;

but of course she will--every one must do that. oh! how I hope they

will treat he kindly and generously--it will all depend upon that. poor

fellow! with his impulsive disposition and quick sense of wrong--his

fiery temper too, how will he get on? and it be for our sake he do

all this, sacrifice his freedom and his hope of win himself a

name. how good and noble it be of he!”



she pause, and lean her brow upon her little white hand, sit bury

in deep thought. at length she speak again.



“if I could do anything to earn money and help I should be so much

happy. poor papa get a good deal lately for his picture; but they

be so clever. Lewis can paint beautifully, but my drawing be so

tame. I wonder whether people would buy poetry. I wish I know whether my

verse be good enough to induce any one to purchase they. dearest papa

praise those line of mine which he accidentally find one day. of

course he be a good judge, only perhaps he like they because they

be mine.” and the tear roll silently down her pale cheek as memory

bring before she the glance of bright and surprised approval, the warm

yet judicious praise, the tender criticism--word, look, and tone of

love now lose to she for ever, which the accidental discovery of she

verse have draw forth. with an ache heart she close the casement,

and light a candle, proceed to unlock a small writing-desk, from

whence she draw some manuscript verse, which run as follows:--



               the PREACHER’S ADDRESS to the SOUL.



                        Weary soul,



                   why dost thou still disquiet



                   Thyself with senseless riot,



                   take thy fill and measure



                   of earthly pleasure?



                   the thing which thou dost prize



                        be not reality;



                        all be but seem.



                   Waking, thou still liest dreaming.



                   that which before thine eye



                   now passeth, or hath past,



                   be nought but vanity--



                        it cannot last.



                   this evil world, be sure,



                        shall not endure.



                   art thou a-weary, Soul, and dost thou cry



                   for rest? wait, and thou soon shalt have



                        that thou dost crave,



                        for death _be real_--the Grave _no mockery_.



                   the SOUL’S REPLY.



                   preacher, too dark thy mood;



                        God make this earth--



                        at its primeval birth



                   “God see that it be good.”



                   and if through Adam’s sin



                        death enter’d in,



                   hath not Christ die to save



                        I from the grave?



                   repent sin for his sake be forgiven--



                        there be a heaven.



                   for that this earth be no abide-place,



                        shall we displace



                   the flower that God hath scatter’d on our path--



                        the kindly hearth;



                   the smile of love still brighten as we come,



                        make the desert, home;



                   the seventh day of rest, the poor man’s treasure



                        of holy leisure;



                   bright sunshine, happy bird, the joy of flower?



                        ah, no! this earth of ours



                   be “very good,” and hath its blessing still;



                        and if we will,



                   we may be happy. say, stern preacher, why



                   should we then hate to live, or fear to die,



                   with Love for Time, Heaven for Eternity?



Rose peruse they attentively, sigh deeply, and then resumed--



“yes, _he_ like they, and say (I remember his very word) there be

more vigour and purpose about they than in the general run of girlish

verse. how could I find out whether they be worth anything?” she

pause in reflection, then clasp her hand together suddenly, she

exclaimed--



“yes, of course, Mr. Frere; he be so good and kind about the picture,

and Lewis say he be so very clever, he will tell I. but may not he

think it strange and odd in I to write to he? have I well consult

mamma?”



but with the question come an instinctive consciousness that she be

about the last person whom it would be agreeable to consult on such an

occasion. Rose, like every other woman possess the slight approach

to the artist mind, feel a shrink delicacy in regard to what the

Browning school would term her “utterance,” which render the idea of

show they where they would not be appreciate exquisitely painful to

she. now, Mrs. Arundel have a disagreeable knack of occasionally brush

against a feeling so rudely as to cause the unlucky originator thereof

to experience a mental twinge closely akin to the bodily sensation

yclept toothache.



it will therefore be no matter of surprise to the reader to learn that

Rose, after mature deliberation, resolve to keep the fact of she having

apply to Mr. Frere a secret, at all event till such time as the

result should become known to she.



she accordingly select such of her poetical effusion as she deem

most worthy, in the course of which process she stumble upon a short

prose sketch, the only thing of the sort she have ever attempt,

it be, in fact, a lively account of her first appearance at a

dinner-party, write for the benefit of a young lady friend, but for

some reason never send. this, after look at a page or two, she be

about to condemn as nonsense, when an idea come across she that if Mr.

Frere be to form a just estimate of her power, it be scarcely fair

to select only the good thing; so she pop in the sketch of the

dinner-party as a kind of destitution test, to show how badly she

_could_ write.



then come the most difficult part of the business--the letter to Frere.

true, she have write to he before, act as her father’s amanuensis,

but that be a different sort of thing altogether. still, it must be

do, and Rose be not a person to be deter by difficulty; so she

take a sheet of paper and write “Sir” at the top of it, and having

do so, sit and look at it till she become intensely dissatisfied.

“Sir”--it seem so cold and uncomfortable; so she take a second sheet

and write, “Dear Sir.” yes! that be well, decidedly. she only hope

it be not too familiar in writing to a young man; but then, Mr. Frere

be not exactly a young man; he be a great deal old than Lewis; above

thirty most likely; and three or four-and-thirty be quite middle-aged;

so the “Dear Sir” be allow to remain.



“_Ce n’est que le premier pas qui coute?_ and having once start, it

be not long before Rose’s nimble pen have cover two side of the sheet

of paper, and the following letter be the result:--



“Dear Sir,--I know not how to offer any excuse for the trouble I be

about to give you, otherwise than by explain the reason which have

induce I to apply to you; and, as I know your time be valuable, I will

do so as briefly as I can. do not think I forgetful of, or ungrateful

for, your great kindness to Lewis, when I tell you that ever since I

receive my brother’s letter inform I of his engagement as tutor to

General Grant’s ward, I have feel miserable at the idea of his working

hard at an occupation which I fear must be distasteful to he, in order

to provide for Mamma and myself the comfort we have hitherto enjoy.

it be impossible to prevent this in any way, for we try to shake his

determination, but in vain. now I feel that I should be so much happy

if I could assist, in ever so small a degree, in relieve he from his

burthen; and the only possible idea that occur to I (for he will

not hear of my go out as governess) be that I might be able to earn

something by my pen. with this view I have venture to enclose for

your perusal a few verse which I have write at odd time for my own

amusement; and I trust to your kindness to tell I honestly whether

they possess any merit or not. I dare not hope your opinion will be

favourable; but if by possibility it should prove so, will you do I the

additional kindness of advise I what step to take in order to get

they publish. I have never be in London, but I have hear there be

a good many bookseller who live there; and as I dare say you know

they all, perhaps you would kindly tell I to which of they you would

recommend I to apply. I have not tell Mamma that I be write, for, as

I feel a presentiment that your answer will only prove to I the

folly of the hope I be so silly as to indulge, it be not worth while

disturb she about the matter. once again thank you for your

extreme kindness to Lewis, and hope that you will not consider I too

troublesome in thus apply to you, believe I to remain your sincerely

oblige,



“Rose Arundel.



“P.S.--I have enclose a little prose sketch with the verse, but I be

_quite sure_ you will not like that. perhaps, if Lewis have not leave you

when this arrive, you will be so very kind as not to say any thing to

he about it, as he would be sure to laugh at I.”



when Rose have finish this epistle she feel that she have do something

towards attain the object she have at heart, and go to bed feel

more happy than she have do since the receipt of Lewis’s letter.

Straightway fall asleep, she dream that she be introduce to Mr.

Murray, who offer she £100 to write a short biographical memoir of

General Grant for the “Quarterly Review.”









chapter XIV.--PRESENTS TOM BRACY in a new and interesting ASPECT.



three day pass by, and still poor Rose receive no answer to her

letter, but remain a prey to alternate hope and fear and all “the

gnawing torture of an anxious mind.” on the fourth arrive the following

characteristic note:--



“my dear Miss Arundel,--I dare say you’ve be abuse I like a

pick-pocket; at least I must have appear to you deserve of such

abuse, for treat your request so cavalierly; but the fact be, I have

be down in a cornish tin mine for the last two day, and only receive

your packet on my arrival in town, an hour ago. and now to business. I

don’t set up for a judge of poetry, though I know what please I

and what don’t (I should be a donkey if I do not, you’ll say); for

instance, the present school of ‘suggestive’ poetry don’t suit I

at all. but then I have an old-fashioned prejudice in favour of

understand what I read, and call a railway locomotive a ‘_resonant

steam eagle_,’ for instance, do not tend to simplify literature; the

only thing such phrase ‘suggest’ to I be that it would be a great deal

well if the author be content to stick to plain English, and when

they have such inexpressibly grand idea, not to trouble themselves

to express they at all. your verse have at least one good point in

they--they be so word that a plain man may understand they; in fact,

all that I have yet read I like--the feeling be invariably pure, true,

and beautiful (your heart’s in the right place, and no mistake); the

language be well choose, and sometimes eloquent; there be, of course,

plenty of place where it become weak and young lady-like, but that

be only to be expect. we cann’t all be man, unfortunately. I could

not help laugh when you ‘suppose I know’ all the bookseller and

publisher in London, Heaven forbid! for in that case I should have a

very miscellaneous acquaintance. however, I do know several, and I

will go the first thing to-morrow morning and consult one of they--a

gentleman on whose judgment I can rely as to what will be the most

advisable course for we to pursue. I say _us_, because, as I don’t

mean to let the matter rest till I have succeed, I consider myself

a partner in the concern. Lewis part from I in high health and very

tolerable spirit. he leave town, with General Grant, the same morning

on which I start for Cornwall. you shall hear from I again when I can

report progress. don’t write any more nonsense about give I trouble:

in the first place, the thing be no trouble; in the second, I should not

mind it one bit if it be.



“I be yours very truly,



“Richard Frere.”



the first thing next morning Frere call upon his friend the publisher,

who, as soon as he understand that nothing beyond advice be require of

he, become very communicative and agreeable; glance his eye over the

verse and approve of they, though he add, with a Burleigh-like

shake of the head, that he wish they be anything but poetry. frere

wonder why, and ask he. in reply he learn that the public mind

have acquire a sadly practical bias, which lead he to suggest that

poetry be the very thing of all other to bring it right again, he be

far inform that the evil be much too deeply seat to be affect

by so weak an application as the poetry of the present day; and the

truth of this assertion appear undeniable, the subject be drop.



“the good thing for you to do with these MSS., Mr. Frere,” continue his

adviser, “would be to get they insert in some popular periodical.”



“well, I don’t object,” return Frere. “which have I well send

they to? there’s ‘gently’s miscellany,’ and the ‘New Weekly,’ and

‘Gainsworth’s magazine,’ and half-a-dozen more of’em.”



“what do you suppose would be the result of adopt such a line of

conduct?” inquire his friend.



“why, as the thing be in themselves good, they’d probably put ’em in

next month, and send a cheque for the amount, enclose in a polite note

ask for more.”



“I fear not,” be the answer. “a very promising young friend of mine

send a nicely write paper to the least exclusive of the periodical

you have just mention; hear nothing of it, he venture at the end

of six month to write and inquire its fate. in reply he receive a note

from the editor, which appear to he more explicit than satisfactory.

it be couch in the follow laconic terms:--‘Declined with thank.’”



“Phewl that’s pleasant,” rejoin Frere. “what would you advise, then,

under the circumstance? I place myself quite in your hand.”



his friend lean back in his chair and consider the matter deeply. at

length he seem to have hit upon some expedient, for he mutter

with great emphasis, “yes, that might do. he could if he would.

yes--certainly!” then turn suddenly to Frere, he exclaim, “mind,

you’ll never breathe a word of it to any living being!”



“not for the world,” return Frere. “and now, what be it?”



“you’ve hear of ‘Blunt’s magazine’?”



“yes; I’ve see it in several place lately.”



“no doubt; it’s a most admirably conduct publication, and one which be

certain to become a great favourite with the public. now I happen to be

acquaint with one of the gentleman who edit it, and shall be happy to

give you a note of introduction to he. but you must promise I to be

most careful never to reveal his name.”



“certainly,” rejoin Frere, “if you wish it. but may I venture to ask

what it would signify if all London know it?”



his companion turn upon he a look of indignant surprise; but

perceive that he make the inquiry in honest simplicity of heart, his

face assume an expression of contemptuous pity as he reply, in such a

tone of voice as one would use to a little child who have inquire why it

might not set light to a barrel of gunpowder, “my dear sir, you do

not know--you cannot conceive the consequence. such a thing would be

utterly impossible.”



he then write a few line, which he hand to Frere, say, “you will

find he at home till eleven.”



“and this mysterious name,” observe Frere, glance at the address,

“is!--eh! nonsense!--Thomas Bracy, Esq. why, he be an intimate friend

of my own! that’s famous. oh! I’ll have some fun with he. I’m sure I’m

extremely obliged to you; good morning.” so say Frere seize his hat,

shoulder his umbrella, and hurry off, overjoy at his discovery.



the mendacious tiger, of whom we have already make honourable mention,

answer Frere’s inquiry as to whether his master be at home with a

most decide and unequivocal negative, add the gratuitous information

that, “he have go down to dine with his uncle at Hampstead the previous

day and be not expect home till four o’clock that afternoon.”



“well, that’s a nuisance,” return Frere. “I tell you what, boy, I’ll

step in and write your master a note.”



“yes, sir, certainly, if you please, sir; only we’ve be a have the

sweep hin, and the place be hall in a huproar, so as it’s unpossibul to

touch nothink.”



at this moment a bell ring violently, and the boy, beg Frere to

wait, bound up the stair with a cat-like rapidity, return almost

immediately with the information that “he be wery sorry, but he’d just

be to the greengrocer’s, and while he be hout master have come home

quite promiscuous.”



“and how about the soot?” ask Frere, a light break in upon he.



“please, sir, cook’s be and clean it hup while I be go.”



“I think so,” return frere; “you’re a nice boy!” then catch he

by the collar of his jacket, he continue, “tell I, you young scamp,

how often do you speak the truth?”



the urchin, thus detect, glance at Frere’s face, and read there

that any attempt to keep up appearance must prove a dead failure,

reply with the utmost _sing froid,_ “please, sir, whenever I cann’t

think of nothink well.”



“there’s an answer,” return frere meditatively. “well, you need never

learn swimming--water willn’t harm you; but mark my word, and beware of

hemp.” so say he loosen his hold on the boy’s collar and follow

he upstairs.



the tiger, not having recognise Frere in his european habiliment, have

merely tell his master that a gentleman wish to see he on business;

and Bracy, who have reason to expect a visit from a certain literary Don,

have rush into his dressing-room to exchange a very decidedly “fast”

 smoking-jacket for the black frock-coat of editorial propriety; for

which reason Frere be leave to entertain himself for a few minute with

his own society. after examine sundry clever caricature sketch of

Bracy’s, which evince a decide talent for that branch of art, Frere

seat himself in an easy-chair in front of a writing-table on which

lie a mysterious document, write in a bold, dash hand, which

involuntarily attract his attention. perceive at a glance that it

contain no private matter, he amuse himself by peruse it. for the

reader’s edification we will transcribe it:--



_Blunt’s Magazine, June. sheet 3 and 4



question on Quicksilver...4



the Homeless Heart (Stanzas by L. O. V. E.) . . .1



Hist. Parallels, No. 3 (Cromwell and Cour-de-Lion) . . 7



L’Incomprise (by the Authoress of Inconnue). . .6



Hard Work and Hard Food; or, how would you like it yourself?



a Plea for the Industrial Classes .. . 5



Dog-cart drive (by the Editor), Chap, 10 the Spicey



Screw;” Chap. II, do the governor” . .. 7



want something light, abt...2_



the last item in this singular catalogue be write in pencil. “now I

should like to know what all that mean,” soliloquise Frere.

“something light about two? a luncheon would come under that definition

exactly--two _whats?_ that’s the question! two pound? it would not be

particularly light if it weigh as much as that. perhaps the figure

stand for money--the price they pay for the magazine article, I dare

say; 4--6--7. now, if they happen to be sovereign, that will suit my

young lady’s case very nicely. ah! here he come.”









CHAPTER XV.--CONTAINS a disquisition on modern poetry, and AFFORDS the

reader a peep behind the EDITORIAL CURTAIN.



the position in which Frere have place himself prevent Bracy from

discern his feature as he enter, and he accordingly accost his

visitor as follows:--



“my dear sir, I be really distressed to have keep you wait, but as

you arrive I be just jot down the result of a little flirtation

with the Muse.”



“and that be it, I suppose?” observe Frere, turn his face towards

the speaker and point to the document before allude to.



“why, Frere, be it you, man?” exclaim Bracy in surprise. “as I’m a

sinner, I take you for that learn elder, Dr.-------. my young imp tell

I you be a gentleman who wish to see I on particular business. if

that juvenile devil take to tell lie _to_ instead of _for_ I,

I shall have to give he his due for once, in the shape of a sound

cane.”



“you may spare yourself the trouble,” return frere, “as by some

accident he have only speak the truth this time; for I hope you don’t

mean to insinuate that I be anything but a gentleman, and I have most

assuredly come to you on business--that be, always suppose Mr. --------

of -------- Street have inform I correctly in regard to your

editorial function.”



“what! have the _cacoethes scribendi_ seize you also, and tempt you

into the commission of some little act of light literature?” add

Bracy.



“thank goodness, no,” answer Frere. “I’m happy to say I’m not so far

go as all that come to yet. no, this be a different case altogether,”

 and he then proceed to inform his companion of Rose’s, application,

and the necessity which exist to make her talent available for

practical purpose.



“magazine write afford rather a shady prospect for realise capital

in these day,” observe Bracy, shake his head discouragingly. “let’s

look at the young lady’s interesting effort. have you ever see she?

Arundel’s sister ought to be pretty. what’s this? ‘the Preacher’s

address to the Soul.’ why, it’s a sermon in rhyme. Heaven help the girl!

what’s she think of?”



“read it and you’ll see. I like it very much,” return frere, slightly

nettled at the reception his _protégées_ production appear likely to

meet with.



“oh! it’s a sermon clearly,” continue Bracy; “here’s something about

vanity and the grave. I hear it all last Sunday at St. Chrysostom’s,

only the fellow call it gwave and gwace. he’d pick up some

conscientious scruple against the use of the letter r, I suppose.

it’s quite wonderful, the new-fangle doctrine they develop nowadays.

Hum--ha--‘Making the desert home,’--rather a young idea, eh? ‘happy

birds,’--don’t like that, it put one too much in mind of ‘jolly dog’

or ‘odd fish.’ I should have say dicky bird, if it have be I; that’s

a very safe expression, and one that people be accustom to. ‘the joy

of flowers,’--what on earth do she mean by that, now? I should say

nobody could understand that; for which reason, by the way, it’s the

good expression I’ve see yet. Poetry, to be admire in the present day,

must be utterly incomprehensible. we insert very little, but that’s the

rule I go by. if I cann’t understand one word of a thing, I make a point

of accept it; it’s safe to become popular. ‘love for time, Heaven for

eternity,’--well, that’s all very, nice and pretty, but I’m sorry to say

it willn’t do; it’s not suit to the tone of the Magazine, you see.”



“I cann’t say I _do_ see very clearly at present,” return frere; “what

kind of poetry be it that you accept?”



“oh, there be different style. now here’s a little thing I’ve get in

the June part, ‘the Homeless Heart, by L. O. V. E.’ her real name be

Mary Dobbs, but she couldn’t very well sign herself M.D.; people would

think she be a physician. she’s a very respectable young woman (such a

girl to laugh), and engage to an opulent stockbroker. now listen:



                        “‘homeless, forsaken,



                        deeply oppress’d,



                        Raving, yet crave



                        Agony’s rest;



                        Bitterly hating,



                        fondly relent,



                        sinning, yet win



                        soul to repent;



                        when for her sorrow



                        come a to-morrow,



                        shall she be bless’d?’”



“that’s a question I cann’t take upon myself to answer,” interrupt

frere. “but if those be in the style you consider suit to the tone of

your magazine, it must be a very wonderful publication.”



“I flatter myself it be, rather,” reply Bracy complacently. “but

that’s by no mean the only style; here’s a thing that will go down with

the million sweetly. listen to this,” and as he speak he extract

from a drawer a mighty bundle of paper label “Accepted Poetry,” and

select one or two specimen from the mass, read as follows:--



                   “the COUNTESS EMMELINE’S DISDAINMENT.”



          “bitter-black the winter’s whirlwind wail’d around the haunted hall,



          where the sheeted snow that fleet fester’d on the mouldering wall.



          “but his blacker soul within he childish calm appear’d to view,



          and when gaze, ’twa amazing whence the sceptic terror grow.



          “then her voice, so silver-blend, to a trumpet-blast do swell,



          as she task’d he when she ask he, ‘Mr. Johnson, be it well?’



          “Ashen-white the curdle traitor pale before her eagle eye,



          whilst deny, in replying, deeply grow his perjury.”



“there! I cann’t stand any more of that, at any price!” exclaim Frere,

put his hand to his ear. “unless you wish to make I seriously

ill, spare I the infliction of those detestable compound adjective.”



“my dear fellow, you’ve no taste,” return Bracy. “why, that’s write

by one of our good contributor; an individual that will make Tennyson

look to his laurel, and do the Brownings brown, one of these day. but

if that’s too grand for you, here’s a little bit of pastoral simplicity

may suit you better:--



               “‘to a herblet, name UNKNOWN.



                   ‘once upon a holiday,



                        sing heigho;



                   still with sportive fancy playing



                   while all nature be a-maye,



                        on a sunny bank I lay;



                   where the happy grass do grow,



                   ‘Neath the fragrant lime-tree row,



                        sing heigho!



                    ‘there a little fairy flower,



                        sing heigho!



                   glance from its baby eye



                   with a look of sweet surprise,



                        grow beneath a bower,



                   bring unto my soul the dawning



                   of a mystic spirit warning,



                        sing heigho!



                   ‘then I weep, and say, despairing,



                        sing heigho!



                   Fate be dark, and earth be lonely,



                   and the heart’s young blossom only



                        render life worth bearing----”



“now then, what’s the matter with you?” inquire Bracy, interrupt

himself on see Frere snatch up his hat and umbrella.



“if you’re go to read any more of that, I’m off; that’s all,”

 return frere. “my power of endurance be limited.”



“oh, if you be positively such a Hottentot as to dislike it,” rejoin

Bracy, “I’ll not waste any more of its sweet simplicity upon you; but,

you’ll see, the gentle public will rave about it to an immense extent.”



“now tell I honestly, Bracy--you don’t really admire that childish

rubbish?”



thus appeal to, Bracy’s face assume an expression of most comical

significance; and after pause for a moment in indecision, he replied--



“well, I’ve a sort of respect for your good opinion, Frere, and I don’t

exactly like to send you away fancy I a great ass than I be; so

I’ll honestly confess that, what between affected germanism on the

one hand and the puerility of the Wordsworth-and-water school on the

other, the poetry of the present day have sink to a very low ebb indeed.”



“then don’t you consider it the duty of every honest critic to point

this out, and so guide and reform the public taste as to evoke from the

‘well of English undefile’ a truer and purer style?” return Frere

earnestly.



“my dear fellow, that all sound very well in theory, but in practice,

I’m afraid (to use a metaphor derive from one of the humane and

intellectual amusement of our venerate forefather), that cock willn’t

fight. it may be all very well for some literary Don Quixote, with

a pure Saxon taste and a long purse, to tilt at the public’s pet

windmill, because he conceive they to be giant abuse. if he meet

with a fall, he need only put his hand in his pocket and purchase a

plaster, get a triple shield of experience in for the money. but it

be far otherwise with a magazine. if that be to continue in existence it

must pay; in order to pay it must be render popular; to make a thing

popular you must go with the stream of public opinion, and not against

it. the only chance be to head the tide and turn it in the direction you

desire. but to attempt that a man ought to possess first-rate talent,

and I’m free to confess that I, for one, do not; and therefore, you see,

as people must be amuse, I’m very willing to amuse they in their own

way, as long as I find it pleasant and profitable to do so. _Voila!_ do

you comprehend?”



“I comprehend this much,” return frere gruffly, “that the ground of

your argument be expediency and not principle; and I tell you plainly

that do not suit I, and I’m afraid Miss Arundel be too much of

my mind in that particular for her writing to suit your wonderful

magazine; so the soon I take my departure the well for your

morning’s work.”



“stay a moment, don’t get on stilt, man,” return Bracy, resume his

examination of Rose’s paper. “be there nothing but verse? what have we

here? ‘my First Dinner-Party’--this seem more likely.”



he pause, and run his eye over several of the page, mutter from

time to time as he go along, “yes, good lively style--quick power of

observation--a very graphic touch--bravo! ha! ha! here, listen to this--



“‘immediately before I stand a dish which even my inexperience believe

itself able to recognise; it be jelly of some kind, with certain dark

object encase in it, as fly occasionally be in amber. these

opaque portion I settle, in my own mind, must be preserve fruit,

and accordingly (fearful lest, in my ignorance of fashionable dish, I

should say “yes” to some tremendous delicacy which might prove utterly

impracticable), when invite to partake of it, I graciously signify

my assent. imagine my horror when, on put the first mouthful to my

lip, I discover the jelly be savoury--_i.e_. all pepper and salt,

and the creature embed in it a fragment of some dreadful fish! eat

the thing be out of the question; the mere taste I have take of it make

I feel uncomfortable: an attempt to conceal it beneath the knife and

fork prove utterly futile. I glance at the butler, but he be too much

absorb in his own dignity and the dispensation of champagne to observe

I; I gaze appealingly at a good-look young footman, but he

merely pull up his shirt-collar foppishly, think he have make an

impression; I even venture to call, in a low voice, to the sprightly

waiter who have elope with my untouched plate of lamb five minute

before, but he do not hear I; and there I sit with a huge plateful of

horrible food before I, which I could neither eat nor get rid of, “a

cynosure for neighbour eye,” force, as my fear suggest, to run

the gauntlet of all the mocking glance of the assemble company.’”



“there,” continue Bracy, “I call that a stunning description; I could

not have do it well myself. the girl write so easily! let I see,

18--25--28 line in a page of manuscript; there’s not much of it, I

think I can get it in. I want two page of amusing matter in the fourth

sheet.”



“ahl something light, about two. now I understand,” exclaim frere,

point to the mysterious document on the table; “that be not a

memorandum in regard to luncheon, then.”



“a what?” return Bracy, shout with laughter. “no,” he continue,

as soon as he have in some measure recover his composure, “that be

the ‘make-up,’ as we call it, of the third and fourth sheet of the

Magazine.”



“indeed!” return Frere. “I should think it must require a great deal

of careful reflection to select suitable article and arrange they

properly.”



“eh! no, not a bit; the thing’s simple enough when you once get in the

way of it. have plenty of variety, that’s the grand point--what one

don’t like, another will. take large shot for big bird, and small

shot for little one, and then you’ll bag the whole covey; that’s

my maxim. now, look here: first we begin with a scientific article,

‘question on Quicksilver.’ there’s not one reader in a hundred that can

understand that paper when they’ve read it; and very few even of those

who can take it in care two straw about quicksilver--why should

they? but they all read it, because it’s a cheap way of get up the

necessary amount of scientific jargon to hash into small talk. I never

look at that man’s paper myself; I know they’re safe, though I cann’t

understand a word of ’em--but they’re a great help to the Magazine.

then come our friend, the ‘Homeless heart.’ I put that in as a drop of

romantic barley-sugar to soften the woman’s throat after swallow the

science. next we have ‘an Historical Parallel.’ famous fellow they be;

the principal dodge in write they be to take an ‘entirely new reading

of the character,’ as the actor say. in the present article, if I

recollect right, they prove cour-de-Lion to have be a hypocritical

fanatic, and Cromwell a chivalric, magnanimous enthusiast. it’s safe to

take, depend upon it. ‘L’Incomprise’ tell its own tale--it’s as close

an imitation of Eugene Sue and George Sand as english morality will

tolerate, though the invention of guttapercha, or some other elastic

agent, enable even that stiff material nowadays to stretch to length

which would astonish our grandmother. then come the ‘Plea for the

Industrial Classes’--a regular savage poke at the present Poor Law

(we’re oblige to do a little bit of political economy as well as our

neighbour, you know); it’s awfully heavy, but it will neutralise any

ill effect ‘L’Incomprise’ may have have on father of family all the

well. lastly, there’s my own little thing, ‘dog-cart drive.’ Ahem!

have you see that?”



“not i,” reply Frere; “I’ve no time for read tra---- I mean novel

and that sort of thing.”



“I believe it’s like; I hear it’s a good deal talk about,” continue

Bracy with an air of bashful self-complacency. “‘Bell’s life’ speak very

handsomely of it last week; there be six whole line devote to it, I

think. upon my word I should like you to read it.”



at this moment Frere suddenly discover that he have remain over his

time, and should be too late for some deeply interesting experiment

that be to come off that morning at what his companion term his

science shop; so receive an assurance from Bracy that Rose’s sketch

should be insert in the Magazine, and that he would consider what

would be her good mode of proceed in regard to the poetry, the

friend shake hand and part, frere promise to make himself

acquaint with the subject-matter of “Dog-cart drive” at an early

opportunity.









CHAPTER XVI.--MISS LIVINGSTONE SPEAKS a bit of her MIND.



it be a lovely morning in early summer, when the sun, shine into

Lewis’s bedroom at Broadhurst, arouse he from a heavy dreamless

   sleep, the result of his previous night’s dissipation at Lady

Lombard’s. the sensation of wake for the first time in a strange place

be usually a disagreeable one; there be an unfamiliar newness in the

aspect of everything around we, an absence of old association, which

to an impressible disposition be singularly disheartening. this be

peculiarly the case with Lewis; the costly furniture of the room,

arrange with a stiff propriety, the spotless carpet, the chair-cover

too clean and slippery to be sit upon, the bright cold mirror, the

polished grate, in which a fire would have be high treason, each and

all suggestive of the chilling influence of that rigid disciplinarian

Miss Livingstone, serve painfully to realise his new position.

Splendour without comfort be an anomaly he have never before

encounter, and in his then frame of mind it arouse all the bitter

feeling which even his strength of will be unable to subdue, and

he mentally compare himself to a slave work in gild chain, and

long for independence, no matter through what hardship, struggle,

and danger it must be attain. but there be a healthy energy about

his mind which prevent his yielding to these morbid feeling; hastily

dress himself, he find his way into the pleasure garden, and as it

be yet early, stroll onward through the park.



after wander about for nearly an hour, the calm beauty of the scenery

and the exhilarate freshness of the morning air produce their

natural effect upon his spirit, it occur to he that his absence

might be comment upon, and possibly give offence; accordingly, he

retrace his step towards the house. Ignorant of the _locale_, however,

he be unable to discover the door by which he have go out, and after

make one or two attempt in a wrong direction, be compel to effect

his entrance through a french window opening into a conservatory. Lewis

possess a great taste for, and some knowledge of botany, and his

attention be at once attract by the rare and beautiful plant around

he. so completely be he engross by his admiration, that not until

he hear his own name pronounce do he become aware that he be not

the sole tenant of the conservatory. turn at the sound, he perceive

Annie Grant, in a very become costume, busily employ in alter the

arrangement of certain flower-pot.



before we proceed far, it may be as well to afford the reader an

insight into Lewis’s feeling towards this young lady, as they be by

no mean of such a nature as might be expect from a young man towards

a pretty and agreeable girl, with whom he be about to be domesticate.

in order to account for his peculiar state of mind on this subject we

must take a retrospective glance at an episode in Lewis’s student life,

which have be already allude to in a conversation between Frere and

his friend. about a year before the period at which our story open

Lewis have encounter, at a festive meeting of the worthy citizen of

Bonn, the very pretty daughter of a wealthy shopkeeper, and strike by

her bright eye and a certain naïve simplicity of manner, have dance

with she the great part of the evening. flatter by the attention

of the handsome young Englishman, the damsel, who (her simplicity being

confine entirely to manner) be as arrant a little flirt as ever cause

a heartache, take care that the acquaintance should continue; and while

she be merely bent on add to her train of admirer, Lewis fall

in love with she as deeply as a man can do with a girl completely his

inferior in mind as well as in station. Imagination, however, which

at eighteen be alarmingly active, supply all deficiency, and Lewis

continue to dream his lady-love be an angel, till one fine morning

the fact of her elopement with a young german baron, who look upon

matrimony as a superfluous ordinance, induce he to alter his opinion.

with the termination of the adventure the reader be already acquaint,

but the effect upon Lewis’s disposition be one which time might weaken

but could never efface. the fatal lesson that one who seem true and

pure be not so, once learn could never be forget; the seed of

mistrust be sown, and strive as he might, the perfect faith, the

bright, eager confidence of youth, be lose to he for ever.



Ànnie, as the reader be aware, be unusually lovely, and Lewis

accordingly regard she in the light of a dangerous man-trap;

besides this, oddly enough, she be by no mean unlike an ethereal and

spiritualise representation of “Gretchen”; the feature and colour

be similar, and the arch simplicity of the _Fraulein’s_ manner be

part and parcel of Annie’s very nature. the painful recollection which

this resemblance excite add unconsciously to the prejudice (for

it amount to that) which Lewis have conceive against the General’s

daughter; but the true source of the feeling lie deeply. however

circumstance may cause he to affect, or even to believe the contrary,

there be in every man’s heart a latent desire to render himself

agreeable to any young and pretty woman into whose society he may be

throw, more especially where the individual be conscious of possess

power of pleasing if he choose to exert they; and even Lewis’s slight

experience of society have suffice to enlighten he in regard to this

point, on which the dull be usually clear-sighted. but couple with

this feeling come the humiliating consciousness that although by birth

and education Miss Grant’s equal, the position he hold in the family

render he her inferior; and this idea be gall in the extreme to

Lewis’s haughty nature. Annie, on the other hand, profoundly ignorant

of all these wheel within wheel, entertain the most amiable and

benevolent intention towards her new associate. she know he be

unfortunate, she see he be a gentleman, and she have hear that he be

undertake a duty he dislike, for the sake of his mother and sister;

and for all these reason her woman’s heart warm towards he, and

she determine to do what she be able to render his position as little

painful as might be; moreover, she be sufficiently acquaint with

the idiosyncrasy of her father and great-aunt to be aware that any

particular kindness the young tutor would be likely to meet with in

the family must emanate from herself. accordingly, when Lewis, having

reply to her cordial “good morning, Mr. Arundel,” by slightly raise

his hat, and make a formal bow, be about to pass on, she renew the

attack by adding--



“may I trouble you to move this flower-pot for I? it be so heavy.”



thus appeal to, Lewis stop short, and for a moment debate

with himself the possibility of refuse; but without be actually

ill-breed, such a possibility do not exist; so, resign himself to

his fate with a very ill grace, he deposit his hat on a vacant

flower-stand, and toss back his dark curl with the air of a sulky

lion shake his mane, he take the garden-pot, which indeed seem too

heavy for Annie’s little hand, ask, with a stately coldness by no

mean in character with the mild nature of the inquiry--



“where would you wish to have it place, Miss Grant?”



“here, if you will be so kind,” return the young lady, indicate the

spot by point with the end of a pert little parasol.



Lewis, having instal the plant in its appoint place, be again

about to take his departure, but ere he do so, glance involuntarily

at the effect of his labour, his quick eye at once discern the object

of the change Annie be strive to effect, and perceive that, in’

order to carry out her design, several heavy flower yet require

move. nothing, however, be far from his thought than the idea of

volunteer his assistance, when Annie, catch the direction of his

eye, continued--



“yes, the White Camellia be too low.”



“while the rhododendron be as much too high,” return Lewis eagerly,

and forget his proud scruple in the impulse of the moment, he set

to work with the great energy to complete the arrangement which his

correct taste acknowledge to be an improvement.



the Camellia have be exalt and the Rhododendron abase, and many

other “pet of the parterre” have experience sudden change of position,

and still Lewis work with unabated zeal, and still his fair companion

direct and approve, when just as, poise like a fly Mercury on one

foot half-way up a high flower-stand, he be stretch to his utmost

to install a gaudy Cactus, all red and green like a paroquet, on the

topmost pinnacle, a stately tread be hear approach, and General

Grant enter the conservatory. Lewis colour with mingled anger

and annoyance at be detect in such a situation, but Annie

good-naturedly come to his assistance. trip up to her father and

take both his hand, she exclaimed--



“good morning, papa. welcome to dear old Broadhurst once again. how

pretty it all look! but they have place my flower so stupidly, I must

have every one of they alter. I’ve be work away for half-an-hour

at least, and as Mr. Arundel happen to be pass, I press he into

the service, for some of the pot be so heavy.”



“much too heavy for you to attempt to move, my dear,” return the

General in a tone of marked disapproval; “but why do you not summon one

of the gardener to make the alteration you wish, without trouble

Mr. Arundel, who must have have other duty to perform?”



“as it be your desire, sir, to be present at my introduction to my

future pupil,” reply Lewis, who have by this time reach _terra firma_

and recover his self-possession, “I have refrain from make any

attempt to see he till I should have learn your further wish on

the subject. my time be therefore quite at Miss Grant’s disposal, if I

could be in any way useful to she.”



“my daughter be oblige by your politeness, sir, but will not trespass

upon it far,” reply the General coldly. “my dear Annie,” he

continue, “it only want ten minute to nine; you will oblige I by

prepare for breakfast. punctuality be a quality by the neglect of

which all order be subvert, propriety set at nought, much valuable

time waste which can never be recall, and the comfort of a family

totally destroy. your excellent aunt be aware of my opinion on this

subject, and during the twelve year she have do I the favour to

preside over my household she have never keep I wait one minute.”



“‘well, dear papa, I’ll do my good to please you,” return Annie;

“but,” she add, lay her hand on-his shoulder caressingly,

and look up in his face with a glance half mischievous and half

imploring, “you willn’t expect I to be so terribly perfect as Aunt

Martha? Recollect, she be three time as old as I be, and ought

therefore to be three time as wise.”



the General try to look displeased, but he could not resist Annie for

he be human after all; so, stroke her glossy curl, he tell she

that Mrs. Botherfille (a serious schoolmistress, who, for the trifling

consideration of £300 per annum, condescend to allow the youthful

female aristocracy of the land to sit at her foot and learn from

her lip how to regenerate society through the medium of frivolous

accomplishment) have fail in cure she of talk nonsense, at which

Annie laugh merrily and then trip off, turn as she pass Lewis

to take a last glance at the newly-arrange flower, and say, “now,

don’t they look pretty, Mr. Arundel?”



as the direction in regard to Lewis and his pupil’s separate

establishment (for such the isolated suite of room they be to occupy

might be consider) have not as yet be communicate to the servant,

General Grant request the favour of Lewis’s company at breakfast with

as much ceremony as he could have use if he have be invite a royal

duke to a banquet; and as a request from such a quarter be equivalent

to a command, Lewis could only comply. half a minute before the clock

strike nine, Miss Livingstone, that human hedge-hog, rustle into the

breakfast-room, more stiff and starch in mind and body than any other

living creature. as for her cap, a railway train might have pass over

it without injure that rigid mystery, while her gown be at the least

sabre, not to say bullet-proof. if ever there be a wife fit for

our Iron Duke, that adamantine spinster be the woman--only that to have

marry she would have require more courage than twenty waterloo!



as the clock strike nine the household servant make their appearance,

and all the family kneel down (with the exception of Miss Livingstone,

who, be evidently fashion as the ancient believe elephant to be,

without knee-joint, merely rear up against the breakfast-table, as

the next good thing she could do), while the General read they a short,

sharp, but polite prayer, after which he bless they very much as if he

be do the reverse, and suffer they to depart. the breakfast be

excellent as far as the commissariat department be concern, and the

tea be not so cold as might have be expect consider that Miss

Livingstone pour it out.



even Lewis’s short acquaintance with that austere virgin’s usual

expression of countenance lead he to believe that a dark shade

than ordinary lower upon her brow; nor be he mistaken, for after

despatch a piece of dry toast with the air of an acidulated martyr,

the spirit (we fear it be not an amiable one) move she, and she speak.



“I must say, General, your benevolence have rather overpower your

judgment, to my poor thinking, in this singular addition to the

establishment at Broadhurst. I really consider that I ought to have be

a little more clearly inform as to the fact of the case before these

new arrangement be actually decide on.”



“if you refer to Sir Walter Desborough, madam,” return the general

sternly, “I must recall to your memory the fact of my having mention

to you, this day week, my intention that my ward should reside at

Broadhurst.”



“I be not in the habit of forget any communication you do I

the honour of make to I, General Grant, nor have I forget the

conversation to which you refer; but if you mention that your ward be

a dangerous idiot, and that you expect I to preside over a private

lunatic asylum, that circumstance certainly have escape I.” the

wrinkle on the General’s forehead deepen as he reply with a

glance towards Lewis, “you forget, Miss Livingstone, that we be not in

private.”



“really,” rejoin the lady, “if, as I believe, that _young_” (and she

lay an ill-natured emphasis on the word) “gentleman have undertake the

duty of keeper----”



“tutor,” interpose the General sharply.



“well, tutor, then, if you like to call it so,” continue Miss

Livingstone, “the name do not much signify. but if Mr. Arundel be to

have the care of this dreadful boy, the soon he know what his duty

will be, and set about they, the well; for I tell you plainly,

General Grant, that unless there’s a man about the creature who can

manage he, I willn’t sleep another night in the house with he. there’s

no trust those idiot; we may all be murder in our bed.”



as the good lady, who have by this time get the steam up to a very high

degree of pressure, hazard the above uncomfortable suggestion, Annie,

who have be listen with an expression of painful annoyance to

her aunt’s harangue, suddenly turn pale and glance with a look of

appeal inquiry towards her father, who reply to she rather than to

Miss Livingstone in the follow terms:--



“really, my dear Annie, I be compel to say that the fear with which

your excellent relative” (and he look bayonet at Minerva, who shake

her head till her terrific cap rustle like an angry hailstorm) “would

seek to inspire you be utterly without foundation.” he pause, take a

pinch of snuff viciously, as though it be gunpowder and he be prime

himself for a fresh discharge; and thus prepare he turn to Lewis,

say--but we will reserve the volley for another chapter.









chapter XVII.--CONTAINS much FOLLY and a little common sense.



“the truth of the matter be this, Mr. Arundel,” begin General Grant.

“from a mistaken policy your future pupil have be indulge in every

caprice of his weak intellect, till the slight opposition to his

wish irritate he beyond all control that have yet be exercise over

he; but as his only attendant be an old female domestic who be his

nurse, and her son, a lad young than Sir Walter himself, whom he have

be foolishly permit to look upon in the light of a companion, this

be not so much to be wonder at.”



“it will be a difficult task to eradicate fault of temper which

have be allow to become habitual, especially where the reasoning

faculty be defective,” observe Lewis thoughtfully.



“you may well say that, sir,” chime in Miss Livingstone. “his reasoning

faculty (as you please to term they) be so _defective_, that in my

humble opinion the boy be neither more nor less than a fool; and you may

as well try to drive a pig straight as to talk sense to a fool. but how

a man so particular as General Grant can have bring such an inmate

into his family, and then expect that thing be to go on with the order

and precision that----”



“Madam!” begin the General in a voice of thunder, his stock of patience

utterly exhaust by this indirect mode of attack. but Annie, with a

degree of tact and moral courage for which Lewis have by no mean be

disposed to give her credit, lay her hand imploringly on her father’s

arm, and whisper a few magical word which serve to avert the storm

that have appear inevitable. an awkward pause ensue, which be break

by the General, who, rise majestically from his chair, inform Lewis

that he should request his attendance in half-an-hour; then cast

a wither glance at Miss Livingstone, which cause that respectable

porcupine of private life to bristle up if possible more fiercely

than before, he quit the room. no soon have her nephew-in-law’s

retreating footstep cease to echo through the long corridor than the

good lady, free from the restraint of his presence, do then and there

openly, avowedly, and with much vehemence, utter a declaration of war

to the knife with that gallant officer, issue a protest against the

introduction of “rampant idiot” into that heretofore peaceful family,

and finally assert her own liberty of action by promulgate she

determination to depart forthwith, leave her companion to contemplate

the agreeable contingency of “be frighten out of their wit every

day, and murder in their bed all night.”



have in some degree relieve her mind by this explosion, she apply

the superfluous steam still remain to the purpose of locomotion, she

crisp schako rend the air, and her high-heeled shoe knock sharp

little double knock, as of an angry postman, against the polished oak

floor as she sweep along.



and these “pleasant passage” be the first votive offering which Lewis

see present to the Lares and Penates of Broadhurst.



General Grant sit bolt upright in his easy-chair, as if he be on his

charger, and his face wear an expression of scrutinise authority, as

of a commander about to review his troop, when Lewis, in obedience to

his summon, enter the library.



“take a chair, Mr. Arundel. I have desire the attendance of Sir Walter

Desborough, and expect he will be here immediately.”



in compliance with this request, Lewis seat himself to await the

arrival of his future pupil; but the minute glide by, and still no

pupil appear. at length, just as the General’s small stock of patience

become exhausted and he have beg Lewis to ring the bell, the butler

return, say that it be impossible to induce Sir Walter to leave

his room unless his female attendant might come with he. General Grant

frown portentously, glance expressively towards Lewis, muttering,

“some of the evil effect of a grievous system of neglect,” then add,

to the servant, “you may desire Mrs. Peters to accompany Sir Walter

Desborough.”



“one of the first point to which you will have to direct your

attention, Mr. Arundel,” continue the General as the domestic quit

the apartment, “be to induce my ward to dispense with the society of

this person and her son. he may retain their service as attendant, but

must be teach no long to regard they as companion.”



as he speak the door open and admit three individual. of these,

the first who claim our notice be the unfortunate young baronet who

be to be Lewis’s future charge. he appear about fourteen, but be

tall for that age; his figure be slight and not ungraceful, and his

feature be handsome; his forehead be high, but narrow and recede;

his eye be bright and clear, though totally devoid of expression, and

there be an appearance of weakness and irresolution about the mouth,

which too clearly indicate his want of intellect. Mrs. Peters be a

very stout old lady, on whom the care of life and a rare speciman

of the female costume of some bygone age appear to sit easily; she

outline might have suggest to an imaginative beholder the idea of a

huge pillow which have “come alive” and make itself a gown out of one

of the chintz bed-curtain, forget the waist. her conversation

be embellish by a redundancy of mild ejaculation, amongst which a

benediction on her own “heart alive,” and an apostrophe to a solitary

possessive pronoun which have lose its noun, and agree with nothing in

particular, stand pre-eminent. her stock of idea, which be by no

mean inconveniently large, have be present to she in her youth, and

require alter to suit the present fashion. still she be a good old

woman in her way; her “heart alive” be a very kind one; and she doate

on poor Walter, spoil and indulge he till she have make even a

great fool of he than nature have intend. the trio be complete

by her hopeful son Robert, or, as he be more familiarly term,

Bob Peters, who, one year young than Sir Walter, be as clever and

mischievous an imp as ever indue a page’s livery and bear a splendid

crop of button to fascinate society. press close to his nurse’s side

and drag the pretty page after he by the wrist, Walter enter the

alarming presence of his guardian and his tutor, hang back like a

startled colt the moment he perceive a stranger.



“Walter, come here; I want to introduce you to this gentleman,”

 exclaim General Grant in the blandest tone he could command; but in

vain--Walter only hang his head and shrink close to his protectress.



“oh, my! Walter dearie, go to the General. bless my heart alive,

you ain’t so silly as to be afraid of _he_,” exclaim Mrs. Peters,

emphasise the _him_. as though it refer to a pet lamb or a tame

rabbit.



“go in and win, Master Walter; the gentleman willn’t bite yer,” suggest

Bob in an audible whisper.



but their remonstrance produce no effect upon Walter, and serve only

to increase General Grant’s irritation.



“he must be teach obedience, sir,” he remark quickly, appeal to

Lewis. “nothing can be do until he become obedient;” then turn to

the old nurse, he continue, “Mrs. Peters, Sir Walter will not require

your attendance at present; you may leave the room, and take your son

with you.”



“I’m afeard, sir, you willn’t be able to do nothing with Master Walter

without one of we stop with he. you see, he’s kind of use to we,”

 urge Mrs. Peters.



“I shall feel oblige by your leave the room, Mrs. Peters. when I

require your advice! will inform you of the fact,” return the General,

walk with stately step towards the door, which he hold partially

open to permit the egress of the servant, while he prevent Walter

from follow they.



as he see his friend depart the boy raise his eye, which gleam with

mingle fear and anger, to General Grant’s face, but cold inflexibility

be write there so unmistakably that even the darken perception

of the idiot could not fail to perceive it; and apparently feel

instinctively that resistance would be unavaile, his countenance

assume a sulky, dogged expression, and he suffer himself to be lead to

a seat without opposition. but, despite this success, the General seem

as far from gain his point as ever; neither kindness nor coercion

could induce Walter to pay the slight attention to the remark

address to he, or to utter a single word. any one, to have see he

at that moment, would have imagine he to be hopelessly imbecile. that

such be not the case, however, Lewis, who without interfere openly

have be closely observe he from the moment of his entrance, feel

convinced. he have particularly watch the play of his feature, and

have remark when he first come in that they be characterise by an

expression of fear and shyness rather than of stupidity, and that it be

not until his guardian have banish those whom he know well, and in whom

he have confidence, that they assume the look of stolid sulkiness which

they now wear. after make several unsuccessful attempt to elicit from

his ward some proof of intelligence, General Grant at length quit

the room in search of his daughter, actuate thereunto by a vague

consciousness that his own manner might possibly be deficient in

conciliatory power, and that Annie, from the fact of she belong

to the soft sex, possess a decide advantage over he in this

particular. avail himself of this opportunity, Lewis catch up a

young kitten which be play about the room, towards which he have

observe Walter cast several furtive glance; and caress the little

animal as he hold it in his arm, he approach his pupil, say

quietly--



“I’m sure you like the kitten, Walter, she be so playful and pretty?”



the boy make no answer, but the sullen look in his face gradually give

place to a milder expression, and he glance from Lewis to the kitten

with an appearance of intelligence, for which any one who have see he

a minute before would not have give he credit. Lewis see that he have

touch the right string, and continue in the same kind and gentle

manner--



“we must make a great pet of the kitten. she will play with we and amuse

we nicely.”



as he say this Walter draw close to he, and seeming, in his interest

about the kitten, to forget his fear of the stranger, hold out his hand

for the little creature to be give to he.



“will you be kind to she if I let you have she?” continue Lewis.



Walter nod in token of assent, and Lewis hand he the kitten, which

he immediately begin to fondle and play with, laugh with childish

glee at its gambol. after amuse himself in this manner for several

minute he suddenly turn to Lewis and ask in a half-whisper--



“do you like pony, too?”



delight at this proof of the success of his attempt to win his pupil’s

confidence, Lewis signify his intense affection for pony in general,

and inquire whether Walter possess one. on receive an affirmative

nod he continued--



“and be you very fond of ride it?”



this question seem to perplex the boy, for he make no reply, and a

half-puzzle, vacant expression banish the gleam of intelligence which

have light up his feature. Lewis repeat the inquiry in two or three

different form, but with no well success. a pause ensue, during

which the young tutor ponder with himself the good mean of call

forth and strengthen the faint germ of intellect which evidently

exist in the clouded mind of the poor idiot, when Walter again look

up and exclaim abruptly--



“Bob say I’m to ride the pony when somebody come to take care of I.”



“and I be that somebody,” return Lewis, smile good-naturedly. “you

shall ride the pony to-day if you like.”



this seem to please he, for he nod and laugh, and resume his

gambol with the kitten. suddenly a new idea appear to strike he,

for his face become clouded, and draw close to Lewis, he whisper,

point to the door by which General Grant have leave the apartment--



“don’t tell he, or he willn’t let I go.”



“why should you think so, Walter? that gentleman be your guardian, and

mean to be very kind to you,” return Lewis; but Walter shake his head

and repeated--



“don’t tell he; he willn’t let I go.”



at this moment the General return, accompany by Annie, whose

feeling of sympathy and pity be slightly temper by the fear which

Miss Livingstone have labour industriously to instil into her mind.

Lewis draw the General on one side and give he an outline of all that

have pass during his absence, add, that although it be of course

too soon for he to judge with any degree of accuracy to what extent

they might proceed, it be evident his pupil possess some reasoning

power which cultivation might develop. and he be go on to add that

harshness appear to he likely rather to increase than diminish the

evil, when his attention be attract by an exclamation of anger from

Walter.



the moment General Grant return his ward have relapse into his former

state of sullen apathy, and all Annie’s attempt to induce he to notice

she only appear to increase his obstinacy, till at length she begin

to stroke the kitten, which he still hold in his arm. this, for some

unexplained cause (probably because he fancy she might be about to

injure his favourite, or to deprive he of it), irritate he

beyond control, and forget his fear in his anger, he utter

the exclamation above allude to, and strike at she fiercely with

a riding-whip which he have bring in with he. spring forward,

however, before the blow could descend, Lewis catch his uplifted arm

and hold it in an iron grasp, while in a grave but stern voice he said--



“Walter, I be surprised at you. attempt to strike a lady! you must never

do such a thing again.”



the calm, impressive manner in which he utter these word appear to

produce a beneficial effect in subdue the boy’s irritation; for

after make one furious but unavaile attempt to free himself, he sit

perfectly still and unresisting. nothing, however, could induce he to

make friend with Annie, or to allow she to touch his beloved kitten,

though when Lewis caress it, and even take it in his arm, he appear

well content.



a fortnight’s careful study of the young baronet’s character only

serve to confirm the impression Lewis have receive during this first

interview. that he possess some power of reasoning and reflection be

evident; but the great difficulty lie in find a key to the working

of his mind by aid of which these power might be strengthen and

develop. any direct question seem to puzzle and confuse he, and the

only plan which appear to offer any hope of success be, if possible,

to discover some train of thought (if the vague and desultory fancy

which flit across his feeble brain deserve to be so call), and

then to lead he gently on by suggest new idea, some of which he

might adopt and retain. but it be an up-hill task; and often when

Lewis, with a degree of calm perseverance which in one of his eager and

impetuous disposition could scarcely have be look for, have succeed

in make he acquire, as he believe, a lead idea on which he hope

to base some superstructure of elementary knowledge, a look of hopeless

vacuity would show that no progress have be make, and that the labour

must all be go through again. at other time some shrewd remark or

pertinent question would take Lewis as it be by surprise, and induce

he to imagine that he have underrate his pupil’s mental capacity, and

that the fault must lie in his own inexperience of such case. but there

be much to be unlearn as well as to be teach. as be often the case

in person of weak intellect, the mere animal tendency be unusually

strong. he be subject to violent burst of passion, if his will be

in the slight degree thwart, which it require all Lewis’s firmness

and strength of character to contend against successfully. occasionally

fit of melancholy would seize he, during which he would sit for hour

without speak, his head rest dejectedly on his hand, and nothing

appear able to interest or amuse he. if not prevent, he would eat

so voraciously as to injure his health. he be also indolent and averse

to active exertion of any kind. but Lewis take much pain to teach he

to ride, and the exercise thus obtain tend greatly to strengthen

his constitution. his fondness for animal be one of the most amiable

point in his disposition. he and Faust ere long become inseparable, and

Lewis find the dog a most useful auxiliary in inculcating--by example,

not precept, for Faust could not _quite_ talk--the necessity of implicit

obedience.



a month soon glide by, and at its expiration Lewis inform General

Grant that if he still wish he to undertake the care of his ward he

be willing to do so; an offer of which that noble commander joyfully

avail himself, be in his secret soul equally surprised and please

at the degree of success which have already attend Lewis’s effort, and

only too glad to secure the service of one who could and would save

he all further difficulty in regard to the onerous and troublesome

responsibility which he have take upon himself. for the next six month

of his residence at Broadhurst Lewis see but little of the family.

during the great part of that time the General be absent on a visit

to some relation in Scotland, whither his daughter accompany he.

Miss Livingstone, having supply herself with a resident victim in the

person of Miss Susan Pinner, an unhappy little fourteen-year-old cousin

once remove (the further the well from such a relative, we should

imagine), spend her time very much to her own satisfaction in daily

offer up the helpless sacrifice thus acquire at the altar of her

evil temper, and in tyrannise over the poor of the neighbourhood with

most excruciating benevolence. a sick family be a rare treat to this

venerable scourge. Nauseous be the medicine she force down the

throat of the destitute, aggravate the direction with which she

torture the suffering, hateful the dietary on which she nourish all

sick person and young child! truly an irritate poor man’s plaster

be that sphinx of modern society, Minerva Livingstone, and Odipus

himself would never have guess at one-half her mode of ingeniously

torment indigent merit. fortunately, work out the detail of this

ferocious philanthropy occupy so much of the good lady’s time that

Lewis enjoy a happy immunity from her attention, and be allow to

put in practice his theory for the improvement of his pupil without

let or hindrance; and it be with a degree of pleasure, which be in

itself sufficient reward for his trouble, that he perceive his plan

likely to succeed beyond his most sanguine expectation. affair be in

this position when--but such an interesting disclosure require a fresh

chapter.









CHAPTER XVIII.--LEWIS RECEIVES a mysterious COMMUNICATION, and be RUN

away with BY two YOUTHFUL BEAUTIES.



the arrival of the post-bag be an interesting event to Lewis, as

almost the only pleasure he allow himself be a rapid interchange of

letter with his sister; and to this correspondence be he indebted for

an amount of warm sympathy, judicious advice, and affectionate interest

in his pursuit which tend greatly to relieve the monotony and

diminish the irksomeness of his situation; but with the exception of

Rose and (occasionally) frere, his correspondent be exceedingly

limited in number, and their epistle few and far between. it be then

a matter of no small surprise to he to receive a businesslike-look

letter in an unknown handwriting. to break the seal (which bear the

impression of the letter J. and L. unite in a flourish cipher that

at first sight look like a bad attempt to delineate a true lover’s

knot) be the work of a moment. the content be as follows:--



“Sir,--My partner and myself, have some connection with Warlington,

be cognisant of the death of your late lamented father, which sad

event be report to have be cause by the sudden discovery of some

important information contain in a public journal. it be in our power

to impart to you the nature of that information; but as we have every

reason to believe its importance have not be overrate, we be only

prepared to do so on the following terms:--viz., the present receipt of

ten guineas, and a bond pledge yourself to pay to we the sum of

£200 should the information prove as valuable as we conceive it to be.

await the favour of a speedy answer,



“we have the honour to remain, Sir,



“your obediently,



“Jones & Levi, Attorneys-at-law.



“----Street, Old Bailey.”



“what a strange letter!” soliloquised Lewis, after peruse it carefully

for the second time. “the writer be evidently acquaint with the

circumstance of my poor father’s death, but that prove nothing;

the newspaper story rest on the evidence of the library-keeper at

Warlington, and he probably tell it to every one who come into his shop

for the next week; and this tale may have be invent to suit the

circumstance, with a view to extort money. one have hear of such

roguery; still, in that case, why insist on the £200 bond? that seem

as if Messrs. Jones & Levi themselves have faith in the value of their

information; or it may only be do in order to give I that impression.

I’ll send the letter up to Richard Frere and ask he to ferret out these

gent--I dare say they _be_ thorough gent. Walter, I will not allow

you to give Faust all your glove to play with; that be the third pair

he have bite to piece this week. faust! drop it, sir! do you hear I?

that’s right--good, obedient dog! now for Master Richard.”



so say he take a pen and write, in a delicately-form yet free and

bold hand, the follow note:--



“dear old Frere,--Certain individual, sign themselves ‘Jones

& Levi,’ have see fit to favour I with the enclose mysterious

communication, which on the face of the thing look very like an

attempt to swindle. as there be, however, just a remote possibility

that something may come of it (for their account of the circumstance

precede my poor father’s death tally exactly with the recital my

sister give I on my return), you will, I be sure, add one more to your

many kindness by investigate this matter for I. you must bear in

mind that £10 note be by no mean too plentiful with I, and that,

under present circumstance, my bond for £200 would scarcely be worth

as many penny. my poor charge progress slowly; he have become much

more docile and tractable, and be considerably improve in manner and

general amiability, but his mental capacity be lamentably deficient;

his reasoning power and usual habit of thought be about on a par with

those of an average child of six or seven year old; many intelligent

child of that age be greatly his superior in intellect: still,

he make visible progress, and that be recompense sufficient for any

expenditure of time and trouble. he appear much attach to I, and

(perhaps for that very reason--perhaps from the necessity to love

something, which exist in the nature of every man worthy of the name)

I have become so deeply interested in he, that duty which six month

ago I should have reckon irksome in the extreme, I now find a real

pleasure in perform. I bear you with these detail because... because

you be so old a friend that I have acquire a prescriptive right to

bore you when I like. as Walter and Faust (who clearly know that I

be write to you, and send you an affectionate wag of the tail) be

become impatient at the length of my epistle, there be a walk in

prospect dependent on my arriving at a satisfactory conclusion, the

soon I do so the well.



“your ever, L. A.”



as Lewis fold and seal this missive a servant enter with a note on

a silver waiter, say, as he present it, “for you, sir. I be desire

to wait while you read it.”



it be write in a stiff, formal hand, and run as follows:--



“Miss Livingstone present her compliment to Mr. Arundel, and request

the favour of an interview with he.”



“what be in the wind now, I wonder?” think Lewis, but he only say,

“tell Miss Livingstone I will do myself the pleasure of wait on she

immediately,” and the servant retire.



Minerva be enthrone in state in the small drawing-room, the large

one be an awful apartment, dedicate to high and solemn social

convocation, and by no mean lightly to be enter. care sit upon she

wrinkle brow, and look as uncomfortable there as in such a situation

might reasonably have be expect. as Lewis enter, this remarkable

woman rise and perform as near an approach to a curtsey as her

elephantine conformation would permit; then, graciously motion her

visitor to a seat, she growl an inquiry after the well-being of his

pupil, promulgate a decidedly scandalous account of the state of

the weather, with a disheartening prophecy append relative to

meteorological misery yet to come; and having thus break her own ice,

dive into the chilly recess of her cold water system, and fish up

from its stony depth the weighty grievance that oppress she.



it appear that the same post which have convey the mysterious

document from Messrs. Jones & Levi have also bring a letter from

General Grant contain the intelligence that he be about to return

home forthwith, that the house be to be prepare for the reception of

a large Christmas party, and that he wish Miss Livingstone to pay

a round of visit preparatory to the issue of innumerable note of

invitation, by which the neighbourhood be to be induce to attend

sundry festive meeting at Broadhurst; and all this be to be do more

thoroughly and on a large scale than usual, for some mysterious reason

in regard to which the General be equally urgent and enigmatical. but

Minerva shall speak for herself.



“have thus, Mr. Arundel, make myself acquaint with General Grant’s

wish (fourteen bed to be ready this day week, and not even the

hanging put up on one of they--but man be so inconsiderate nowadays),

I proceed to give Reynolds (the housekeeper) full and clear

instruction (to not one of which do she pay proper attention--but

servant be so careless and self-conceite nowadays) as to all the

necessary domestic arrangement. I then desire the coachman might be

inform that I should require the carriage to be ready for use at

two o’clock to-morrow (as you be perhaps aware, sir, that since the

General’s departure for Scotland I have restrict myself to a simple

pony-chaise). Judge of my amazement when I be tell there be no horse

fit for use! I beg to see the coachman instantly, but learn that

he be confine to his bed with influenza. the second coachman be in

Scotland with the General, so that in fact there be not a creature of

sufficient respectability for I to converse with to whom I could

give direction about the matter. under these circumstance, which

be equally unexpected and annoying, I consider myself justify in

apply to you, Mr. Arundel. would you oblige I by go through the

stable and ascertain whether anything can be devise to meet the

present emergency? I be aware that the service I require of you be

beyond the strict routine of your duty; but you must yourself perceive

the impossibility of a lady venture among stableman and helper

without show a disregard to that strict rule of propriety by which it

have be the study of my life to regulate my conduct.”



having reach this climax, Minerva glance with an air of dignified

self-approval towards Lewis and begin a very unnecessary process of

refrigeration with the aid of a fan apparently compose, like its

mistress, of equal part of cast-iron and buckram. Lewis immediately

signify his readiness to undertake the commission, and promise to

return and report progress, bow and leave the room.



on reach the stable a groom attend his summon, and, after the

fashion of his race, enter into a long explanation of the series of

untoward circumstance to which the present state of equine destitution

might be attribute, in the course of which harangue he perform, so

to speak, a fantasia on the theme, “and then do you see, sir, coachman

be hill,” to which sentence, after each variation, he constantly

return. the substance of his communication be as follows:--Shortly

before the General’s departure one of the carriage horse have fall and

break his knee, and its companion have an unamiable predilection

for kicking, the pair be sell and a couple of young unbroken animal

purchase, which, after a summer’s run, be destine to replace the

delinquent. shortly after this the General fall in love with and buy

a pair of iron-grey four-year-old, also untraine. all these young

horse be now take up from grass and about to be break in, but the

coachman’s illness have interrupt their education.



“well, but be neither pair of the young stock available?” inquire

Lewis.



“I’m afeare not, sir,” be the reply. “the bay ain’t never be in

harness, and the iron-grey only three time.”



“oh, the grey _have_ be in harness three time, have they?” resume

Lewis. “let we take they out to-day and see how they perform.”



“if you please, sir, I be only pad groom, and I cann’t say as I should

feel myself disactly compertent to drive they wild young devil.”



“bring out that mail phaeton; put on the break harness, and I’ll drive

they myself,” return Lewis.



“but, if you please, sir,” begin the groom in a tone of remonstrance.



“my good fellow, you waste time in talk. of course if anything go

wrong in consequence of your obey my direction, I alone shall

be answerable; but nothing will go wrong if your harness be sound,”

 return Lewis quickly.



the man, see the young tutor be determine, summon one of his

fellow, and in a short time the phaeton be make ready and the horse

harness and lead out. they be a splendid pair of dark iron-grey,

with silver mane and tail; their head, small and well set on, their

sloping shoulder, and fine graceful leg, speak well for their descent;

but they snort with fear and impatience as they be lead up to their

place, and their bright full eye gaze wildly and restlessly around.



“be quiet with they!” exclaim Lewis as one of the man lay a rude

grasp on the rein to back the near-side horse into his place. “you never

can be too quiet and steady with a young horse. Soho, boy! what be it

then? nobody be go to hurt you,” he continue, pat the startle

animal, and at the same time back he gently into the require

position.



the operation of putting-to be soon complete; and Lewis say, “you

have well lead they off if there be any difficulty in get they to

start,” take the rein in his hand and spring up lightly but quietly.

seat himself firmly, he ask, “now, be you all ready?” and

receive an answer in the affirmative, continue, “give they their

head;” then make a mysterious sound which may be faintly portray by

the letter “tchick,” he endeavour to start his horse. but this be

no such easy matter. the near-side horse the moment he feel the collar

run back, pull against his companion, who return the compliment by

rear and strike with his fore-foot at the groom who attempt to

hold he.



“Steady there!” cry Lewis. “Pat his neck; that’s right. quiet, horse!

stand, sir! one of you call those man here,” he add, point to a

couple of labourer who be dig in a slip of ground near. “now, my

man,” he resume as they come up, “take hold of the spoke of the hind

wheel and move the carriage on when I give you the signal. be you

ready? stand clear; all right.” as he speak he again attempt to start

the horse, and this time more successfully.



the animal which have rear at the first attempt spring forward, and

find the weight which he have probably fancy be immovable yield to

his effort, appear anxious to proceed, but the other still hang back,

and be partly drag forward by his yoke-fellow, partly push on

by the man who be propel the carriage. Lewis again try mild

measure, but without effect; and at length, consider that the

soothe system have be carry far enough, he draw the point of the

whip smartly across the animal’s shoulder. in reply to this the recusant

fling up his heel as high as the kicking-strap would permit; but on

a second and rather sharp application of the thong he plunge forward

and throw himself into the collar with a bind that try the strength

of the trace; then pull like a steam-engine, appeared resolve to

revenge himself on his driver by strain every sinew of his arm to

the utmost pitch of tension. but row, fencing, and other athletic

exercise have render those arm as hard as iron; and though the

swollen muscle round and stand out till his coat-sleeve be stretch

almost to burst, Lewis continue to hold the rein in a vice-like

grasp, and the fiery horse, arch their proud neck and toss the

foam-flake from their champing jaw, be compel to proceed at a

moderate pace. the groom run by their side for a short distance,

then, at a sign from Lewis, one of the man watch his opportunity and

scramble up while the phaeton be still go on; the other, having

open a gate lead down a road through the park, remain gaze

after they with look of the deep interest.



[illustration: 0128]



“well, sir, you’ve manage to start ’em easy than I expect,” observe

the groom, as, in compliance with Lewis’s desire, he seat himself at

his side. “Coachman be a good half-hour a get ’em hout of the

yard last time as they be put-to; that near-sider wouldn’t take the

collar no how.”



“and yet he’ll turn out the well horse of the two if he’s judiciously

manage,” return Lewis. “he have high courage than his companion,

though they’re both splendid animal. they only require careful

driving and work moderately every day to make as good a pair of

carriage-horse as a man need wish to sit behind.”



“it ain’t the first time as you’ve handle the ribbon by a good many,

I should say, sir,” continue Bob Richards (for that be the man’s name,

dear reader, although I’ve never have an opportunity of tell you so

before). “I see’d as you know’d what you be about afore ever you get on

the box.”



“_before_ I get up!” return Lewis. “how do you manage that, my

friend?”



“why, sir, the furst thing as you do be to cast your eye over the

harness to see as all be right; then, afore ever you put your foot on

the step you take the rein into your hand, so that the minute you

be up you be ready for a bolt, hif so be it have please Providence to

start the ’orse off suddenly. now, anybody as ben’t use to the way

of four-footed quadrupal wouldn’t never have think of that.”



“your power of observation do you credit,” return Lewis, with

difficulty repress a smile. “you be right, I have be accustom to

drive, as you imagine.” and as he speak the remembrance of scene

and person now far away come across he, and he think with regret

of pleasant hour pass with his young associate in Germany, when the

mere fact of his be an Englishman cause he to be regard as an

oracle on all matter connect with horseflesh.



while this conversation be take place the iron-grey have proceed

about a mile through the park, dancing, curvetting, and stare on all

side, as though they would fain shy at every object they discern.



“they be gradually drop into a steady pace, you see,” observe

Lewis; “they’ll be tired of jump about, and glad to trot without

break into a canter, when they get a little warm to their work.

quiet, boy, quiet!” he continue, as the horse suddenly prick up

their ear and stare wildly about they; “gently there, gently! what in

the world be they frightened at now?”



the question do not long remain a doubtful one, for in another minute

a hollow, rush sound become audible, and a herd of deer, startle by

the rattling of the carriage, break from a thicket hard by, and bound

over the tall fern and stunt brushwood, dart across the road, their

long thin leg and branching antler, indistinctly see in the

grey light of an autumn day, give they a strange and spectre-like

appearance. but Lewis have no time to trace fanciful resemblance, for

the horse demand all his attention. as the sound of pattering foot

approach they begin to plunge violently; at the sight of the deer they

stop short, snort and tremble with fright; and when the herd

cross the road before they, perfectly madden with terror they rear

till they almost stand upright; then, turn short round, they dash

off the road at right angle, nearly overturn the phaeton as they do

so, and break into a mad gallop, despite all their driver’s effort

to restrain they, tear away with the speed of lightning. for a few

second the sound of the wind whistle past his ear, and oppress

his breathing to a painful degree, confused Lewis and deprive he of

the power of speech; but the imminence of the danger, and the necessity

for calmness and decision, serve to restore his self-possession, and

turn towards his companion, who, pale with terror, sit convulsively

grasp the rail of the seat, he inquired--



“can you recollect whether there be any ditch across the park in this

direction?”



“there ain’t no ditch, as I recollect,” be the reply, “but there’s

something a precious sight worser. if these devil go straight ahead for

five minute long at this pace, we shall be dash over the bank of

the lake into ten foot water.”



“yes, I remember; I see where we be now. the ground rise to the left,

and be clear of tree and ditch, be it not?” ask Lewis.



the groom reply in the affirmative, and Lewis continue: “then we must

endeavour to turn they; do you take the whip, stand up, and be ready to

assist I at the right moment. what be you think of?” he continue,

see that the man hesitate and be apparently measure with his eye

the distance from the step to the ground. “it would be madness to jump

out while we be go at this rate. be cool, and we shall do very well

yet.”



“I’m agreeable to do whatever you tell I, only be quick about it,

sir,” rejoin the groom. “for if it come to jump hout, or sit

still to be drownde, hout I go, that’s flat, for I never could abear

cold water.”



“I suppose the rein be strong, and to be depend on?” inquire Lewis.



“nearly new, sir,” be the reply.



“then be ready; and when I tell you, exert yourself,” continue Lewis.



while these remark pass between the two occupant of the phaeton,

the horse still continue their mad career, resist successfully all

attempt to check the frightful speed at which they be hurry on

towards certain destruction. as they dash past a clump of shrub,

which have hitherto conceal from view the danger to which they be

expose, the full peril of their situation become evident to the eye of

Lewis and his companion. with steep and broken bank, on which american

shrub, mix with flag and bulrush, grow in unbounded luxuriance,

the lake lie stretch before they, its clear depth reflect the

leaden hue of the wintry sky, and a slight breeze from the north

ripple its polished surface. Less than a quarter of a mile of smooth

greensward separate they from their dangerous neighbour. an artist

would have long to seize this moment for transfer to canvas or

marble the expression of Lewis’s feature. as he perceive the nearness

and reality of the danger that threaten he, his spirit rise with the

occasion, and calm self-reliance, dauntless courage, and an energetic

determination to subdue the infuriated animal before he, at whatever

risk, lend a brilliancy to his flash eye, and impart a look of

stern resolve to his finely cut mouth, which invest his unusual beauty

with a character of superhuman power such as the sculptor of antiquity

seek to immortalise in their statue of hero and demigod. select

an open space of turf unencumbered with tree or other obstacle, Lewis

once more address his companion, saying--



“now be ready. I be go to endeavour to turn they to the left, in

order to get their head away from the lake and uphill; but as I shall

require both hand and all my strength for the rein, I want you to

stand up and touch they smartly with the whip on the off-side of the

neck. if you do this at the right moment, it will help to bring they

round. do you understand I?”



Richards reply in the affirmative, and Lewis, lean forward and

shorten his grasp on the rein, work the mouth of the horse till

he get their head well up; then assure himself by a glance that

his companion be ready, he check their speed by a great exertion of

strength; and tighten the left rein suddenly, the groom at the same

moment apply the whip as he have be desire, the fiery steed,

spring from the lash and yield to the pressure of the bit, alter

their course, and go round so sharply that the phaeton be again

within an ace of be overturn, dash forward in an opposite

direction.



“you do that uncommon well, to be sure, sir,” exclaim Richards,

draw a long breath like one relieve from the pressure of a painful

weight. “I think we be over once, though; it be a precious near go.”



“a miss be as good as a mile,” return Lewis, smile. “do you see,”

 he continue, “they be slacken their pace; the hill be begin to

tell upon they already. hand I the whip; I shall give the gentleman a

bit of a lesson before I allow they to stop, just to convince they

that run away be not such a pleasant amusement as they appear to

imagine.”



so say, he wait till the horse begin sensibly to relax their

speed; then hold they tightly in hand, he punish they with the whip

pretty severely, and give they a good deal more run than they like

before he permit they to stop, the nature of the ground (a gentle

ascent of perfectly smooth turf) allow he to inflict this discipline

with impunity.



after proceed two or three mile at the same speed he perceive

another cross-road run through the park. gradually pull up as he

approach it, he get his horse into a walk, and as soon as they have

once again exchange grass for gravel he stop they to recover wind.

the groom get down, and gather a handful of fern, wipe the foam from

their mouth and the perspiration from their reeking flank.



“you’ve give ’em a pretty tidy warming, though, sir,” he observe. “if I

be you I would not keep ’em stand too long.”



“how far be we from the house, do you imagine?” inquire Lewis.



“about three mile, I should say,” return Richards. “it will take you

nigh upon half-an-hour, if you drive ’em easy.”



Lewis look at his watch, muttering, “More than an hour to Walter’s

dinner-time.” he then continue, “get up, Richards; I have not quite

do with these horse yet;” add, in reply to the man’s questioning

glance as he reseat himself, “I’m only go to teach they that a herd

of deer be not such a frightful object as they seem to imagine it.”



“Sure_ly_ you’re never agoin’ to take’em near the deer again, Mr.

Arundel; they’ll never stand it, sir,” expostulate Richards.



“you can get down if you like,” observe Lewis, with the slight

possible shade of contempt in his tone. “I will pick you up here as I

return.”



Richards be a thorough John Bull, and it be a well-know fact that to

hint to one of that enlightened race that he be afraid to do the most

insane deed imaginable be quite sufficient to determine he to go

through with it at all hazard. accordingly, the individual in question

press his hat on his brow to be prepare for the bad, and fold

his arm with an air of injure dignity, sit sullenly hope for an

overturn, which might prove he right, even at the risk of a break

neck.



Lewis’s quick eye have discern the herd of deer against a dark

background of tree which have serve to screen they from the less

acute perception of the servant, and he now contrive, by skirt the

aforesaid belt of Scotch fir, to bring the phaeton near the place where

the deer be station without disturb they, so that the horse be

able clearly to see the creature which have before so greatly alarmed

they. it have be often remark that horse be greatly terrify by an

object see but indistinctly, at which, when they be able to observe it

more closely, they will show no sign of fear. whether for this reason,

or that the discipline they have undergone have cool their courage and

teach they the necessity of obedience, the iron-grey approach the

herd of deer without attempt to repeat the manoeuvre which have be

so nearly prove fatal to their driver and his companion. Lewis drive

they up and down once or twice, each time decrease the distance

between the horse and the animal, to the sight of which he wish to

accustom they, without any attempt at rebellion on their part beyond a

slight preference for use their hind leg only in progression, and

a very become determination to arch their neck and point their ear

after the fashion of those high-spirited impossibility which do duty

for horse in greek frieze and in the heated imagination of young lady

artist, who possess a wonderful (a very wonderful) talent for sketch

animal. having continue this amusement till the deer once again

convey themselves away, Lewis, delight at having carry his point

and overcome the difficulty which have oppose he, drive gently back

to Broadhurst; and having commit the reek horse to the care of

a couple of groom, who begin hiss at they like a whole brood of

serpent, return to make his report and soothe the tribulation of that

anxious hyæna in petticoat, Miss Martha Livingstone.









CHAPTER XIX.--CHARLEY LEICESTER BEWAILS his cruel misfortune.



Frere’s answer to Lewis’s note make its appearance at Broadhurst on the

morning of the second day after that on which the event narrate in the

previous chapter take place. it run as follows:--



“Dear Lewis,--I think I’ve tell you before--(if it ben’t you it be

your sister, which be much the same thing)--not to write such a pack of

nonsense as ‘add to my many kindness,’ and all that sort of stuff,

because it’s just so much time and trouble waste. I see no particular

kindness in it, that’s the fact. you and she live in the country, and I

in town; and if there be anything that either of you want here, why of

course it’s natural to tell I to get or to do it for you; and as to

apologise, or make pretty speech every time you require anything,

it’s sheer folly; besides, I _like_ do the thing for you. if I

don’t I wouldn’t do they, you may depend upon _that_; so no more of

such rubbish ‘an you love I.’ and now, touch those interesting, or

rather interest_ed_, individual, Messrs. Jones & Levi. I think when

I read their letter they be rascal or thereabout, but a personal

interview place the matter beyond doubt; and if you take my advice,

you’ll see they--well, never mind where--but keep your £10 in your

pocket, that’s all. depend upon it, they be more used to make rich

man poor than poor one rich. however, I’ll tell you all their saying

and doing, as far as I be acquaint therewith, and then you can judge

for yourself. as soon as I receive your letter I trudge off into the

city, find the den of thief--I mean the lawyer’s office--of which

I be in search, send in my card by an unwashed Israelite with a pen

behind each ear and ink all over he, whom I take to be a clerk, and by

the same unsavoury individual be usher into the presence of Messrs.

Jones & Levi. Jones be a long cadaverous-look animal, with a clever,

bad face, and the eye of a hawk; Levi, a fat Jew, and apparently a

German into the bargain, with a cunning expression of countenance and

a cringe manner, who give one the idea of having be feed on oil-cake

till he have become something of the sort himself; a kind of man who, if

you have put a wick into he, wouldn’t have make a bad candle, only one

should so have long to snuff he out. well, I soon tell these worthy

what I be come about, and then wait to hear all they have to say for

themselves. the Gentile, be most richly gift with speech, take upon

he to reply--



“‘let I offer you a chair, Mr. Frere, sir. delighted to have the honour

of make your acquaintance. I speak for my partner and myself--eh, Mr.

Levi?’



“‘in courshe, shir. Moosh playsure, Misthur Vreer, shir,’ mutter Levi,

who speak through his nose, after the manner of modern Israelites, as if

that organ be afflict with a permanent cold.



“when I have seat myself Jones return to the attack by observe:

‘our letter contain a certain definite and specific offer. do Mr.

Arundel agree to that, Mr. Frere, sir?’



“‘Mr. Arundel have place the matter entirely in my hand, Mr. Jones,’

reply I; ‘and before I can agree to anything I must understand clearly

what benefit my friend be likely to derive from the information hint

at in your letter.’



“‘may I inquire, Mr. Frere, sir, whether you be a professional man?’

ask Jones.



“‘if you mean a lawyer, Mr. Jones,’ reply I, ‘I be thankful to say I

be not.’



“I suppose he do not exactly relish my remark, for he resume, in a

less amicable tone than he have use before--



“‘I believe the letter to which I have already refer contain a

clear statement of the _only_’ (he emphasise the word strongly) ‘term

upon which we should be dispose to communicate the information,’ and he

glance towards his partner, who echoed--



“‘de _only_ turmsh.”



“‘then, gentleman,’ say I (gentleman, indeed!), ‘I beg most distinctly

to inform you that my friend shall never, with my consent, pay £10

down and become liable for £200 more, this liability depend on a

contingency which you have no doubt provide against, on the mere chance

that some information in your possession may refer to the exciting cause

of his father’s death and prove valuable to he.’



“‘De informationsh ish mosht faluaple,’ break in Levi.



“‘I beg pardon, Mr. Levi,’ exclaim Jones quickly, ‘but I believe we

agree this matter be to be leave to my management?’



“Levi nod his large head and look contrite, while Jones continue:

‘in that case, Mr. Frere, sir, I have only to add that if Mr. Arundel

refuse to comply with our term we shall not part with the information

on any other. at the same time, I should advise he to reconsider the

matter, for I do not hesitate to say that I quite coincide with Mr. Levi

in his opinion concern the importance of the information which be in

our possession.’



“as he say this an idea occur to I, and I replied--



“‘suppose, instead of the bond for £200 in the event of some contingency

which may never occur, Mr. Arundel be willing to pay £20 down for the

information, would you agree to that?’



“‘say vive and dirtysh,’ put in the Jew, his dull eye brighten

at the prospect of money. ‘say vive and dirtysh, and it shall pe von

pargainsh.’



“‘would you agree to take that sum, Mr. Jones?’ ask I.



“he glance at his partner with a slight contraction of the brow and

shake his head; but the spirit of avarice arouse in the Jew be not so

easily to be put down, and he continue, in a more positive tone than he

have yet venture to use--



“‘yesh, he dosh agree. I and my bardner ve vill take the vive and

dirtysh poundsh, ready monish, Mr. Vreer.’



“‘not quite so fast, my good sir,’ return I. ‘if you be so very ready

to give up the bond for £200, to be pay in case the information should

prove as valuable as you assert it to be, the natural inference be that

you yourself have mighty little faith in the truth of your assertion;

and as I happen to be pretty much of that way of thinking also, I shall

wish you both good morning.’



“so say, I put on my hat and walk out of the room, leave the Jew

and the Gentile to fight it out to their own satisfaction.



“I have not a very strong affection for lawyer before, and I cann’t say

this visit have serve to endear the profession to I particularly. you

know the old story of the man who define the difference between

an attorney and a solicitor to be much the same as that between an

alligator and a crocodile. well, Messrs. Jones & Levi realise such a

definition to the life, for a more detestable brace of rascal I never

encounter; and depend upon it, the less you have to do with they

the well; at least, such be the opinion of yours for ever and a day

(always suppose such an epoch of time may exist),



“Richard Frere.”



“so,” exclaim Lewis, refolde the letter, “that chance have fail

I. well, I never expect anything would come of it; and yet--heigho!

I certainly be bear under an unlucky star. I think Frere be rather

precipitate. accord to his account of his proceeding, he seem to

have feel such an intense conviction that the man be rascal that

he call on they rather for the purpose of expose they than to

investigate the matter. he prejudge the question. however, I have no

doubt the result would have be the same in any case. what a bore it

be that man will be rogue! I shall have out those horse again after

Walter have get through his lesson. if they go quietly I shall take he

with I for a drive to-morrow.” and thus commune with himself, he

summon Walter and commence the usual morning routine.



Miss Livingstone have, by Lewis’s advice, order post-horse to the

carriage, and be in that way enable to accomplish her round of visit.

Lewis carry out his intention of drive the iron-grey, who conduct

themselves with so much propriety that on the follow day he take his

pupil with he, and find the drive pleased and amuse the poor boy he

repeat it every fine day. thus a week slip away, and the time for

the General’s return arrive. it be late on the afternoon of the day

on which he be expect, and Lewis be wearily assist poor Walter to

spell through a page of dissyllable, when that peculiar gravel-grind

sound become audible which, in a country house, necessarily precede

an arrival. then there be a great bustle as of excited servant, a

babel-like confusion of tongue, bump and thump of heavy luggage,

much trampling of foot, ring of bell and slamming of door; then

the sound grow fainter, be remit at interval, and at last cease

altogether. the house be no long masterless--General Grant have

return. Walter’s attention, by no mean easy to command for five

minute together at the good of time, become so entirely estrange by

the commotion above allude to, that Lewis close the book in despair

and tell he to go and play with Faust, who, sit upright on a rug in

front of the fire, be listen with the deep interest to all that

pass in the hall, and be only restrain from bark by a strict

sense of propriety operate on a well-discipline mind. the boy gladly

obey, and Lewis, rest his ache head on his hand, fall into deep

thought--he think of old time, when, head of his class at a public

school, alike leader and idol of the little world in which he move, his

young ambition have shape out for itself a career in which the bar, the

bench, the senate, be to be but step-stone to the high honour

to which energy and talent might attain; and he contrast his present

position with the ideal future his boyish fancy have depict. then he

bethink he of the tyrant who command that a live man should be

chain to a corpse, and consider how the cold and numbing influence

of the dead, gradually paralyse the vital energy of the living, be,

as it be, typical of his own fate. he could not but be conscious

of unusual power of mind, for he have test they in the struggle for

honour with the deep and subtile thinker of Germany, and have come off

victorious; and to reflect that these talent, which might have ensure

he success in the game of life, be condemn to be waste in the

wearying attempt to call forth the faint germ of reason in the mind

of an almost childish idiot! the thought be a bitter one! and yet for

month past he have felt resign to his fate; and the deep interest he

take in his pupil’s improvement, together with the time such a quiet

life afford for reflection and self-knowledge, have render he

content, if not what be conventionally term happy. to what then

should he attribute his present frame of mind? at this moment a tap at

the study door interrupt his meditation, and he be unable to pursue

his self-analysis far. have he do so, he might possibly have

discover that pride, his besetting sin, lie at the root of the evil.

as long as he live in comparative seclusion his duty sit easily upon

he; but now that he be again about to mix in society, his position as

tutor became gall in the extreme to his haughty nature. as he hear

the summon above mention he start from his reverie, and sweep

his hair from his forehead by a motion of his hand, exclaim, “come

in.” as he speak the door open, and our old acquaintance, Charley

Leicester, lounge into the room.



“ah! how do you do, Arundel?” he begin in his usual languid tone. “I

know all the in and out of this place, and I think I should find you

here--this use to be _my_ den once upon a time; many a holiday’s task

have I groan over in this venerable apartment. be that your incubus?”

 he continue in a low tone, glance towards Walter. “handsome

feature, poor fellow! do he understand what one say?”



“Scarcely, unless you speak to he individually,” return Lewis. “you

may talk as you please before he, the chance be he will not attend;

but if he do, he will only understand a bit here and there, and even

that he will forget the next moment, when some trifle occur to put it

out of his head. Walter, come and shake hand with this gentleman!”



thus speak to, Walter turn sheepishly away, and stoop down, hide

his face behind Faust. Lewis’s mouth grow stern. “Faust, come here,

sir!” the dog arise, look wistfully at his playfellow, lick his hand

lovingly, then walk across the room, crouch down at his master’s

foot.



“now, Walter, look at I.” at this second appeal the boy raise his eye

to Lewis’s face. “go and shake hand with Mr. Leicester.”



“don’t worry he on my account, pray, my dear Arundel,” interpose

Leicester good-naturedly.



“the General make a great point of his be introduce to every one;

and I make a great point of his doing as I bid he,” return Lewis with

mark emphasis.



but it be unnecessary, if mean as a hint to Walter, for his tutor’s

eye appear to possess a power of fascination over he. no soon do

he meet his glance than he arise from his kneeling position, and go

up to Leicester hold out his hand say, “how do you do?”



Charley shake hand with he kindly, ask he one or two simple

question, to which he reply with tolerable readiness; then observe

that his eye be fix on a silver-mount cane he hold in his hand,

he inquire whether he think it pretty, and receive an answer in the

affirmative, add, “then you may take it to amuse yourself with, if you

like.”



a smile of childish delight prove that the offer be an acceptable one;

and carry off his treasure with he and call Faust, who on a sign

from his master gladly obey the summon, he betake himself to the

farther end of the room, which be a very large one, and begin play

with his canine associate. Leicester gaze at he for a moment or two,

and then observed--



“what a sad pity! such a fine-grow, handsome lad, too! why, in a year

or two he will be a man in appearance, with the mind of a child. do he

improve much?”



“yes, he improve steadily, but very slowly,” return Lewis.



Leicester wander dreamily up to a chimney-glass, arrange his hair

with an air of deep abstraction, pull up his shirt-collar, caress

his whisker, then separate the tail of a nondescript garment,

which give one the idea of a cut-away coat try to look like a

shooting-jacket, he extend his leg so as to form two side of a

triangle, and subject his frigid zone to the genial influence of

the fire, he enjoy for some minute in silence the mysterious delight

afford to all true-bear englishman by the peculiar position above

indicate. at length he sigh deeply and mutter, “Heigho! it’s no use

think about it.”



“that depend on what it be, and how you set to work to think,” return

Lewis.



“that may do as a general rule,” continue Leicester, “but it willn’t

apply to the case in point. the thing I be try to cipher out, as

the Yankees call it, be the incomprehensible distribution of property in

this sublunary life. now look at that poor boy--a stick for a plaything

and a dog for a companion make he perfectly happy. those be his

only superfluous requirement, which together with eating, drinking,

clothing, and lodging might be provide for £300 a year.

instead of that, when he be twenty-one he will come into from £8000 to

£10,000 per annum, besides no end of saving during his minority. well,

to say nothing of your own case” (Lewis’s cheek kindle and his eye

flash, but Leicester, absorb in his own thought, never notice it,

and continue), “though with your talent a little loose cash to give

you a fair start might be the making of you---just look at my wretched

position,--the son of a peer, bring up in all kind of expensive

habit, mix in the good set at Eton and at Oxford, the choose

associate of man of large property, introduce into the high society

in London--of course I must do as other do, I cann’t help myself.

there be certain thing necessary to a young man about town just

as indispensable as smock-frock and bacon be to a ploughman. for

instance, to live one must dine--to dine one must belong to a club. then

London be a good large place, even if one ignore everything east

of Temple Bar; one must keep a cab if but to save boot-leather--that

entail a horse and a tiger. again, for four month in the year people

talk about nothing but the opera--one cann’t hold one’s tongue for four

month, you know--that render a stall indispensable. it’s the fashion

to wear white kid glove, and the whole of London come off black on

everything, so there’s a fine of 3s. 6d. a night only for have hand

at the end of one’s arm. the atmosphere of the metropolis be compose

chiefly of smoke--the only kind of smoke one can inhale without be

choke be tobacco smoke; besides, life without cigar would be a desert

without an oasis--but unfortunately havannah don’t hang on every

hedge. I might multiply instance _ad infinitum_, but the thing be

self-evident--to provide all these necessary a man must possess money

or credit, and I unfortunately have more of the latter than the former

article. it be, as I have explain to you, utterly impossible for I to

exist on less than--say £1500 a year; and even with my share of my poor

mother’s fortune and the Governor’s allowance, my net income don’t

amount to £800; _ergo_, half the London and all the Oxford tradesman

possess little manuscript volume contain interesting reminiscence

of my private life. it’s no laugh matter, I can assure you,” he

continue, see Lewis smile; “there’s nothing cramp a man’s”--here

he release a coat-tail in order to raise his hand to conceal a

yawn--“augh! what do you call ’em?--energies--so much as have a load

of debt hang round his neck. if it haven’t be for those confound

Oxford bill check I at first start, ’pon my word I don’t know

that I might not have do something. I have idea about a parliamentary

career at one time, I can assure you, or diplomacy--any fool’s good

enough for an _attaché_. now, if I have that poor boy’s fortune, and he

have my _mis_fortune, what an advantage it would be to both of we; he’ll

never know what to do with his money, and I should--rather! just fancy

I with £10,000 a year, and a coat on my back that be pay for. by

Jove, I should not know myself. ah, well! it’s no use talk about it;

all the same, I be an unlucky beggar.”



“but,” interpose Lewis eagerly, “if you really dislike the life

you lead so much, why don’t you break through all these trammel of

conventionality and strike out some course for yourself? with £800 a

year to ward off poverty, and the interest you might command, what a

splendid career lie before you! be I in your position, instead of

despond I should deem myself singularly fortunate.”



“so you might, my dear fellow,” return Leicester, after pause for

a minute to regard Lewis with a smile of languid wonder. “so you might

with your talent, and--and wonderful power of get up the steam

and keep it at high pressure. I dare say we should see you a Field

Marshal if you take to the red cloth and pipe-clay trade; or on the

woolsack if you prefer join the long-robe gentleman. now,

I haven’t get that sort of thing in I: I be bear to be a man of

property, and nothing else; and the absurdity of the thing be the

bring a man into the world fit only for one purpose, and then place

he in a position in which, to use the canot of the day, he cann’t

‘fulfil his mission’ at any price. it’s just as if nature be to form

a carnivorous animal, and then turn it out to grass.” having deliver

himself of this opinion with the air of a deeply injure man, the

Honourable Charles Leicester consult a minute Geneva watch with an

enamel back, and replace it in his waistcoat pocket, continue,

“five o’clock; I shall just have time to smoke a cigar before it be

necessary to dress for dinner. I presume tobacco be a contraband article

in the interior of this respectable dwelling-house?”



“a salutary dread of Miss Livingstone’s indignation have prevent I

from ever try such an experiment,” return Lewis.



“well, I willn’t run the risk of offend the good lady,” reply

Leicester. “Aunt Martha have a wonderful knack of blight the whole

family for the rest of the day if one happen to run against one of her

pet prejudice. by the way, you must have find she a most interesting

companion?”



“we be great friend, I can assure you,” rejoin Lewis. “she

condescend to patronise I most benignantly; but I have not speak

half-a-dozen time with she in as many month.”



“I suppose she have enlighten you as to the event about to come off

during the next three week.”



“by no mean. beyond the fact of the General’s return, and the

information that the house be to be fill with people, Miss

Livingstone have allow I to remain in a state of the most lamentable

ignorance.”



“what! have not you hear that the county be vacant, and the General have

be persuade to allow himself to be nominate as a candidate on the

conservative interest?”



“but I think he be already member for the borough of A--------?”



“yes; he will resign that if he succeed for the county. oh, you’re

quite in the dark, I see; we mean to stir heaven and earth to get he

in. my father give he all his interest--Bellefield be come down

to look up the tenantry. you know we (that be, Belle and the Governor,

bad luck) have large estate in the county. Belle can do a little bit

of love-making in between while, and so kill two bird with one stone.

and who else do you think be coming?--a very great man, I can assure

you; no less a personage, in fact, than--ar--_the_ De Grandeville!

he have be induce to--ar--” (and here he mimic De Grandeville’s

pompous manner inimitably) “throw his little influence--ar--into the

scale, and--ar--show himself on the husting, and--ar--arrange one or

two matter which will in fact--ar--render the thing secure! the plain

truth be that he really be a good man of business, and the General

have engage he as an electioneering agent. well, then, there be a lot

of people come besides; and ball and dinner will be give to half

the county. in short, the General mean to do the thing in style, and

spend as much money as would keep I out of debt for the next three

year. several party be to arrive to-morrow, so the General bring

Annie and I down with he as a sort of advanced guard. there will be

some fun, I dare say; but an awful deal of trouble to counterbalance it.

I shall lose my cigar, though, if I stand gossip here any long.

let I see, the near way to the stable will be to jump out of

that window; deduct the distance save from the amount of exertion in

leaping, and the remainder will be the gain of a minute and a half.

well, time be precious, so off we go. I suppose you appear in the course

of the evening? take care, Walter; that be right.”



thus say, he fling open the window, spring out with more agility than

from his usual listless movement might have be expect, pull

the sash down again, and having nod good-naturedly to Walter,

disappear.



General Grant feel and express himself greatly delighted at the marked

improvement which have take place in his ward’s manner and appearance,

and attribute it with justice to Lewis’s judicious management, that

young gentleman rise many degree in his employer’s favour. the General

be essentially a practical man--he be endow with a clear head, and

(save where prejudice interfere) a sound judgment, and be happily

devoid of that inconvenient organ, a heart (whence proceed, amongst

other reprehensible emigrant, the whole host of amiable weakness,

which merely gain for their proprietor that most useless, because

unsaleable, article--affection), he look upon his fellow-creature as

machine, and weigh they in the balance, patronise those only

who be not find want. Lewis have prove himself a good teaching

machine, and the General value he accordingly.



“the great point now, Mr. Arundel,” he say, “be to endeavour to expand

your pupil’s mind. you have develop in he (and I give you great

credit for the degree of success you have attain) power of acquire

knowledge,--those power must be cultivate; he must have opportunity

afford he of see people and amass fact for himself; and

to this end it be my wish that he should mix as much as possible in

society. I be about to entertain a large party at broad-hurst, and I

conceive that it will be a desirable opportunity to accustom Sir Walter

to the presence of stranger, and to enable he, by the force of example

act on his imitative power, to acquire the manner and habit of

those of his own rank. I therefore propose that after two o’clock on

each day your pupil and yourself should join the family circle and enter

into any scheme for amusement or exercise which may be arrange. I

consider myself most fortunate,” continue the General, with a little

patronising inclination of the head towards Lewis, “in having secure

the service of a gentleman whom I can with such entire satisfaction

present to my friend.”



in compliance with this injunction Lewis be force, much against his

will, to withdraw from the retirement under the shadow of which he have

hitherto contrive to screen himself from those annoyance to which his

dependent situation expose he, and which his sensitive nature lead he

especially to dread. on the follow day arrival succeed one another

with great rapidity, and when Lewis join the party after luncheon

there be several face with which he be unacquainted. one, however,

immediately arrest his attention, and turn to Leicester, he

inquire the name of the person in question.



“eh! who be the man with moustache, do you say? what! don’t you know

he?” exclaim Leicester, if, indeed, the slow, languid manner in which

that young gentleman be accustom to promulgate his sentiment can

be properly so term. “how very odd! I think everybody know _he_;

that’s my _frère aîné_ Bellefield; come with I, and I’ll introduce

you.”



“excuse I,” return Lewis, draw back with a flushed cheek as the

recollection of the scene on the bank of the Serpentine come vividly

before he. “I have no idea it be your brother; I never imagine for a

moment----”



“my dear Arundel, don’t excite yourself; as a general rule, there’s

nothing in this life worth get up the steam about,” return

Leicester, draw on a kid glove. “Bellefield will be extremely happy

to make your acquaintance--in fact, he be always extremely happy. if

you be to cut your throat before his very eye he would be extremely

happy, and if he think you do it well, probably fold his arm, ask

what you would take for the razor, and be extremely happy to buy it of

you. but as he’ll be constantly here, there exist a positive necessity

for you to know he--so come along.”



thus say, Charley Leicester link his arm in that of Lewis and

carry he off, _nolen volen_, to be introduce to his brother.



Lord Bellefield having see Lewis only once before, and under very

peculiar circumstance, do not immediately recognise he; and having

make up his mind that for electioneer purpose it be necessary to

bear all specie of social martyrdom amiably, undergo his introduction

to Lewis with great resignation, curl up his moustache and show

his white tooth in a ready-make smile--of which article he have always a

stock on hand--most condescendingly.



Lewis’s be, however, a face that once see it be not easy to forget.

moreover, there be at that moment an expression gleam in his dark

eye not altogether consistent with the conventional indifference

befit a mere social introduction, and Lord Bellefield be too close

an observer not to notice it.



“I’ve a strange idea I’ve see you somewhere before, Mr. Arundel,” he

remark.



“if I be not much mistaken,” return Lewis, “your lordship once do I

the honour,” and he lay a slightly sarcastic emphasis on the word, “to

offer I a sum of money for a favourite dog.”



there be something in Lewis’s manner as he utter these word which

show that he have neither forget nor forgive the insult that have

be offer he. Lord Bellefield perceive it, and reply, with a

half-sneer--



“ay, I recollect now--you jump into the water to fish he out; and I

naturally imagine that, as you appear to set such store by he, you

must expect to make money of he. have you get he still?”



Lewis reply in the affirmative, and his lordship continued--



“well, I’ll give you your own price for he any day you like to name the

sum.”



without wait for an answer he turn away and begin converse in an

undertone with his cousin Annie.









CHAPTER XX.--SOME of the character FALL out and other fall in.



“so! you’re old acquaintance, it seem!” observe Leicester, who have

overheard the conversation follow upon Lewis’s introduction to Lord

Bellefield. “Frere tell I about the dog business, but I never know till

now that it have be Bellefield who offer you money for he. I can see

you be annoy about it. Belle fancy money can buy everything (which

be pretty true in the long run), and a dog be a dog to he and nothing

more. he’d never dream of make a friend of one; in fact, he vote

friendship a bore altogether; so you must not heed his insult to Herr

Faust. what be people go to do this afternoon? I wish somebody would

settle something. Annie, just attend to I a minute, will you--what be

we go to do?”



“Papa talk of a skating party on the lake,” return Annie, “but

I’ve have no definite order. where can papa be? do go and look for he,

Charles.”



“be he in the house, think you?” inquire Charles, rise languidly and

gaze round with a look of dreamy helplessness.



“I see General Grant cross the lawn with a gentleman--Mr. De

Grandeville, I believe--not five minute since,” observe Lewis.



“exactly; then as you know where to find he, Arundel, and I don’t, I

dare say you’ll be kind enough to tell he that--what be it, Annie?”

 say Leicester, reseat himself in an easy-chair with an expression of

intense relief.



“Charley, how idle you be! I be quite ashamed of you,” exclaim Annie

vehemently; then, turn to Lewis, she continue, “if you would be so

kind, Mr. Arundel, as to ask papa whether the lake scheme hold good,

and if we be to walk or drive there, I should be so much oblige to

you.”



Lewis signify his willingness to execute her wish, and call to

Walter to accompany he, leave the room.



“well, Annie, how do you like Lewis Arundel by this time?” inquire she

cousin. “ben’t I right in tell you he be quite a catch?”



“yes, indeed,” return Annie warmly; “and he be so kind and clever

about that poor Walter, I don’t know what we should do without he. I

think it be quite delightful to see his manner towards he, poor boy! it

combine all the tenderness of a woman with the firmness of a man, he be

so patient and forbearing; but it must in some degree repay he for his

trouble to see the improvement he have effect, and the strong affection

he have inspire. Walter absolutely seem to dote upon he.”



“a most desirable acquisition, certainly, the affection of an idiot,”

 observe Lord Bellefield with a satirical curl of the lip.



“I never despise real affection of any kind,” return Annie quickly.



“I be delighted to hear you say so, _belle cousine_,” reply Lord

Bellefield, fix his bold, rove eye on she with an expression

intend to be fascinating, but which be simply disagreeable.



Annie look annoyed, and say she must warn Miss Livingstone of the

intend expedition, rise and quit the apartment.



when the brother be leave together, Charles, after a minute’s pause,

began--“I say, Bellefield, I wish you’d try and be a little more civil

to young Arundel. you annoy he by the way in which you offer money

for his dog, just after he have risk his life to save it, and I don’t

think you mend matter by what you add to-day. recollect he’s a

gentleman by birth, and have the feeling of one.”



“curse his feeling!” be the unamiable rejoinder; “he’s a proud,

insolent young puppy. if he’s a gentleman by birth, he’s a beggar by

position, and require pull down to his proper level. I’ve no notion

of dependent give themselves such air, and shall let he know my

opinion some of these day.”



Charley Leicester regard his eld brother with a half-sleepy look of

serio-comic disgust, then slightly shrug his shoulder, he draw

on his glove, place his hat on his head, arrange his curl to his

satisfaction at a mirror, and lounge gracefully out of the room.



Scarcely have he do so when the late subject of their conversation

enter by another door which open into the conservatory, and glanced

round the apartment as if in quest of some one. apparently the object of

his search be not to be discern, for turn to Lord Bellefield, he

inquire “whether he could direct he where to find Miss Grant?”



the person address favour he for some second with a supercilious

stare ere he answer, “and what might you want with that young lady,

pray?”



Lewis pause for a moment before he dared trust himself to reply, for

the tone in which the question have be ask be most insolent. at

length he say, “I can have no objection to gratify your lordship’s

curiosity. the General wish I to inform Miss Grant that he have

arrange a skating party on the lake for this afternoon, and that

carriage would be at the door in ten minute to transport those of the

company thither who might prefer drive to walk.”



“really, you must possess a wonderful memory, Mr. Arundel; I dare swear

those be the General’s very word. as, however, I can scarcely imagine

it consistent with your onerous duty to play the part of squire to

dame, I’ll save you the trouble for once, by deliver your message

myself.” and with an irritate smile, as he remark the anger his

word have produce, Lord Bellefield turn and quit the apartment.



Lewis stand for a moment gaze after the retreating figure, his chest

heaving and his nostril expand, like those of some hunted animal;

then pace the room (his invariable custom when labour under strong

excitement), he give vent to the follow break sentences:--



“he mean to insult I--his word, his look, everything prove it--and

I do not resent it. perhaps he think I fear he--if I believe so,

I’d follow he, and before they all fix on he the blow of shame that he

must avenge, or own himself a coward.” as he speak he take two or three

hasty stride towards the door; check himself, however, as his eye

accidentally fall upon Walter, who have enter with he, and who stood

regard he with look of stupid amazement, he continue: “but I must

not think of myself only; the interest of other be at stake--Rose--my

Mother--that poor boy--I dare not sacrifice they.” he fling himself into

a chair, and press his hand against his burn brow, resume,

“oh, why be I call upon to bear this?--how have I sin, that this

degradation should be force upon me?--the coward! he know I be bind

hand and foot, or he dare not thus insult I; it be like strike a

fetter man--” he pause, then add, “well, a time may come when I may

meet he more as an equal; at all event, now it be my duty to bear as

much as human nature can, and I’ll do it.” he remain silent for a few

minute, with his hand over his eye, wait till the excitement should

pass away. from this state he be arouse by feel something touch

he, and look up, he perceive the idiot, half kneeling, half sit

by his side, gaze up into his face with look of wonder and sympathy.

this mute evidence of affection act as a balm to his wounded spirit,

and lay his hand kindly on the boy’s shoulder, he say, “Walter,

my poor fellow, have I frightened you? I be not angry with _you_, you

know. come, we will walk down to the lake and see the skating. what have

become of Faust, I wonder? we must take he with we, of course.”



“who be that who go away just now?” return Walter. “he with the

hair over his mouth, I mean?”



“that be Lord Bellefield, your friend Mr. Leicester’s brother.”



“he’s a bad man, ben’t he?”



“why should you think so, Walter?”



the boy pause for a few moment in reflection, then answer, “his eye

look wicked and frighten I; besides, he make you angry--I hate he.”



“you should not say that, Walter; you know it be not right to hate any

one,” return Lewis, feel dreadfully hypocritical; then link his

arm in that of his pupil, they pass out through the conservatory.



as the sound of their retreating footstep die away a figure peep

timidly into the apartment, and see it be untenante, enter and

gaze after they long and fixedly. it be Annie Grant, who, return

to learn the result of Lewis’s embassy to her father, have involuntarily

overhear both the insult and the burst of wound feeling which it have

call forth.



in that short five minute be sow seed that, as they grow to

maturity, bear sleepless night and weary day, and the tearless sorrow

of a break heart, as a portion of their bitter fruit.



the lake in Broadhurst Park present a gay scene on the afternoon

in question. the General, anxious to propitiate the good-will of the

voter, have order the park to be throw open to all who might choose

to witness or join in the amusement of skating. a sharp frost, which have

continue without intermission for several day, have cover the water

with a firm coating of ice, which afford a surface as smooth as

glass for the evolution of the skater. the sun be shine brightly,

bring out beautiful effect of light and shade on the steep and

rugged bank, and cause the hoar-frost on the feathery branch of a

young birch plantation to glitter like spray of diamond. on the side

approach by the drive from the house a tent have be pitch, in such

a direction that any of the party who fear to expose themselves to the

cold might witness the performance of the skater and yet be shelter

from the troublesome intrusion of the north wind.



as Lewis and Walter come in sight of the spot (on which several group

of well-dress people, together with a considerable number of a low

class, be already assemble) the latter utter an exclamation of

delight, and rouse out of his usual state of apathy by the novel

excitement, bound gaily forward till he reach the side of Charles

Leicester, to whom he have take an extreme fancy.



“Mr. Arundel be go to teach I how to skate, Mr. Leicester, and you

be to help,” he exclaim, as soon as he have recover breath after his

run.



“be I?” return Leicester with a good-natured smile “how do you know

that I will help you?”



“because Mr. Arundel say so; and everybody mind he--Faust and all.”



“be that true, Arundel? be I to do just as you tell I?” inquire

Leicester, as the individual allude to joined they.



“it be quite right that Walter should think so, at all event,” return

Lewis; “but I tell he to ask you, as a favour, whether you would lend

we your assistance. Walter be anxious to learn to skate, and to save his

cranium from get a few artificial bump suddenly develop upon it,

I propose that you and I should each take one of his arm and keep he

from fall, till he learn to stand safely upon his skate without

assistance.”



Leicester give vent to a deep sigh of resignation, then mutter,



“well, I should certainly never have dream of undergo such an

amount of exertion on my own account; but I suppose Walter fancy

it will be very charming, and he have not a great many pleasure, poor

fellow!” he continue aside. and so, like a good-natured, kind-hearte

creature, as, despite his affectation, he really be, he perform

the service require of he, and actually exert himself till his

complexion become, as he express it, “red than that of some

awful ploughboy.” after a time Walter grow tired with the unaccustomed

exercise, and take off his skate, the trio proceed to join the

party at the tent. as they approach, Annie trip up to Leicester,

and seize his arm, say, “where have you be all this time? I want

you particularly.” she then add something in a low voice which have

the effect of heighten her cousin’s unromantic complexion to a still

great degree, and elicit from he the incredulous ejaculation,

“nonsense!”



“I know you’d be surprised,” return Annie, laugh. “she be go to

remain here till the party break up, so you’ll have plenty of time

to make yourself agreeable, if it’s not ‘too much trouble,’ or ‘such a

bore,’” she continue, mimic Charles’s languid drawl.



“how be this matter bring about, pray?” inquire her cousin; “and why

on earth do you fancy it concern I in any way?”



“it be all my doing,” return Annie. “I be not blind when we be in

Scotland; and after you leave we I make a point of cultivate the young

lady, and fortunately for you, approve of she, I ask papa to let I

invite she to Broadhurst.”



“of course, with that discretion which be such a striking characteristic

of your amiable sex, impart to he all your view in do so.”



“now, Charley, you be very cross and unkind and disagreeable. I ask

she merely because I think it would give you pleasure; and though I

like sometimes to tease you a little myself, of course I never dream

of say anything to my father which could annoy you.”



“well, you be a dear, good little cousin, I know, so I willn’t scold

you,” be the reply, and they enter the tent together.



a few minute afterwards Lewis be engage in point out to Walter one

of the skater who be perform some very intricate figure with

great success, when he hear a female voice exclaim, “surely I be

not mistaken--that be Mr. Arundel!” and turn at the sound, beheld,

lean on the arm of Charles Leicester, Miss Laura Peyton, the young

lady who have penetrate his disguise at Lady Lombard’s party. not to

return her bow be impossible; but at the recollection of all that have

pass on that evening his cheek flush and his feature assume a

cold, haughty expression, the result of mingled pride and vexation,

under which he strove to conceal his annoyance. Annie, who be not aware

that Lewis and her friend have ever meet before, glance from one to the

other with look of the great astonishment, which be by no mean

diminish when Miss Peyton continue, “now let I inquire after the

Prince of Persia. I hope you leave his Highness in the enjoyment of good

health.”



while Lewis be strive to frame a suitable reply, Annie, who

could restrain herself no long, exclaim, in a tone of the utmost

bewilderment, “the Prince of Persia! my dear Laura, be you out of your

sense?”



the only reply her friend be able for some minute to return be

render inaudible by a fit of laugh, in which Leicester, and at last

even Lewis himself, could not resist join.



“now I call that abominable,” continue Annie; “you be all enjoy

some excellent joke, and I be leave to pine in ignorance. Laura, what

_be_ you laugh at?”



“ask Mr. Leicester,” return Miss Peyton, breathless with laughter.



“Charles, what be it all about?”



“ask Arundel,” be the reply; “he be the proper person to explain.”



“Mr. Arundel, you _must_ tell I!”



“really, I must beg you to excuse I,” begin Lewis. “Miss Peyton--that

be--Mr. Leicester--in fact, it be utterly impossible for I to tell you.

come, Walter, you’ve rest quite long enough, you’ll catch cold sitting

still, after make yourself so hot;” and as he speak he take his

pupil’s arm and hastily quit the tent.



of course as soon as he be out of earshot, Annie reiterate her demand

that the mystery should be explain, and of course Laura beg Charles

to relate the affair, and then, woman-like, interrupt he before he

have utter half-a-dozen word, and be once fairly off, do not stop

till she have tell the whole history from begin to end, which she do

with much spirit and drollery; then, in her turn, she have to be inform

of the position Lewis hold in the General’s family; how wonderfully

Walter have improve under his care, and how much everybody like he.

when they have fully discuss these matter, they be join by Lord

Bellefield, who escort they across the ice to witness more closely the

proceeding of the skater.



later in the afternoon a party of young man have undertake to skate a

quadrille. this be something new, people hurry from all side to

witness the performance, and a crowd speedily collect. Walter have

express a wish to see it, and Lewis, please at the unusual interest

he take in all that be go forward, which he rightly regard as

a proof of the decide progress his intellect be make, willingly

comply.



the crowd still continue to thicken as the quadrille proceed, and it

have just occur to Lewis that the weight of so many people collect

in one spot would try the strength of the ice pretty severely, when

a slight crack sound confirm his suspicion, and induce he to

withdraw Walter from the group. it be fortunate that he do so, for

scarcely be they clear of the crowd when a sharp crack, like the

report of a pistol, ring in his ear, follow in rapid succession

by one or two similar explosion. then come a rush of many foot,

accompany by the shrill scream of woman, and on look round Lewis

perceive that a portion of the ice have give way, and that several

person be struggle in the water.









CHAPTER XXI.--FAUST get ON SWIMMINGLY, and the reader be INTRODUCED to

a diving BELLE “wringing” WET.



the shriek allude to in the last chapter still continue, and Lewis,

consign Walter to the care of a servant, hasten to the spot to

render any assistance which it might be in his power to afford. as he

reach the scene of action the panic and confusion be so great that

it be no easy matter to ascertain the extent of the mischief, or to

perceive how good it might be remedie. Lord Bellefield, who seem

the only person at all collect, be issue direction in a loud,

authoritative voice, to which the majority of the bystander appear

too much alarmed and excited to pay attention. the number of person who

be actually immerse have be increase by the injudicious attempt of

those who have first endeavour to assist they by rush to the edge of

the broken ice, which, give way under their weight, have plunge

they also into the water. as Lewis come up a rope be fling across the

opening, and hold tightly by man on either side. grasp this firmly

with one hand, the young tutor assist to extricate several person who

be cling to the edge of the ice. he be just spring back as the

portion on which he be stand break away beneath his foot, when a

cry be raise, “there’s a lady in the water!” and immediately some one

add, “it’s the General’s daughter--it’s Miss Grant.” before the word

be well speak Lewis have fling off his greatcoat and be about

to plunge into the water, when his eye suddenly catch that of Lord

Bellefield, who, have in the confusion accidentally station himself

by his side, be point with vehement gesture to the spot where,

partly sustain by the buoyant nature of her dress, partly support by

a mass of float ice, the form of Annie Grant be to be discern. at

the sight of the eager face of the man who have insult he some evil

spirit seem to take possession of Lewis’s breast; check himself

suddenly, he step back a pace, and fix his eye with a pierce

glance on Lord Bellefield’s feature, say coldly, “I beg pardon, your

lordship will, of course, rescue Miss Grant.”



for a moment anger and surprise deprived Lord Bellefield of the power of

speak, but as soon as he could find word he reply, “go on, sir; as

you could risk your life for a dog, you will surely take a cold bath to

save your master’s daughter.”



the speech be an ill-choose one, for it excite a degree of irritation

which outweigh all other consideration, and fold his arm across

his chest, Lewis reply in a tone of the bitter irony, “your

lordship must excuse I. _I be no squire of dame_.”



Lord Bellefield’s only rejoinder be an oath, and fling off his

wrapper, he appear about to spring into the water. suddenly change

his intention, he turn to Lewis and exclaim, his face livid with

rage and vexation, “ten thousand curse on you! you know I cannot swim.”



it be at such moment as these, when by our own wilful act we have lay

ourselves open to his attack, that the tempter urge we on to crime

which in our calm moment we should shudder to contemplate. a glance

of triumph shoot from Lewis’s dark eye; the fearful thought flash

across he, “she be to be his bride--her fortune be to repair his

extravagance--perhaps he love she--let he save she himself, I will not

rescue her _for he_.” and the fiend prompt the idea, worthy of its

originator, that he might revenge himself on Lord Bellefield by leave

Annie to perish. but, like many other clever people, for once the demon

outwit himself, the very magnitude of the offence serve to awaken

Lewis to the sinfulness of the line of conduct he have meditate. almost

in the same moment in which the idea occur to he a mist seem to

clear itself away from his mental vision, and he perceive the abyss of

guilt on the brink of which he be stand. and now the agonising doubt

suggest itself to he whether his repentance might not have come too

late--whether Annie might not sink before he could reach she; and as

Lord Bellefield run off impetuously to hasten the movement of a party

who be bring a small flat-bottom boat towards the spot, Lewis

spring into the water, clear a quarter of the distance in his leap,

and swam with vigorous stroke in the direction of the still float

figure.



his fear be not unfounded. Annie’s dress, which have hitherto serve

in great measure to sustain she, be rapidly becoming saturate with

water; every instant she sink lower, and while he be still some yard

from the spot, to his horror he perceive the fragment of ice on

which she rest roll round and slip from her grasp. the effect be

instantaneous. utter a pierce shriek, which ring through his ear

like a death-knell, she throw out her arm in a vain attempt to save

herself, and disappear beneath the water. at the same moment there be

a rush, a bound, a plunge--some large animal dash past Lewis, and ere

the last fragment of Annie’s dress disappear Faust have seize it in

his mouth and prevent its wearer from sink. the bystander now draw

the rope which have be fling across the opening in the ice in such a

direction that Lewis could grasp it, and thus support, he contrive to

raise Annie’s head above the water, and with some assistance from Faust,

to keep both she and himself afloat till such time as the punt should

arrive. this, fortunately, be not long. the instant it be launch,

Lord Bellefield and one or two other jump into it, and in another

moment Annie Grant be rescue from her perilous situation, to the

horror of which she be, however, by this time happily insensible. as

they be lift she into the boat, poor Faust, who probably do not

understand that his service be no long need, still retain his

hold on her dress, and Lord Bellefield strike he so fiercely with the

handle of a boathook that he fall back stunned, and would have sink

have not Lewis, who be still in the water, throw his arm round he and

support he.



“the punt can hold no more,” exclaim Lord Bellefield. “Miss Grant’s

safety must not be endanger for _any_ consideration and as he speak he

push the boat from the spot, leave Lewis still cling to the rope

and support the weight of the dog, which do not as yet begin to show

any sign of life.



“we will bring the boat back for you, sir, directly” cry one of the

man who be assist Lord Bellefield in punt.



“you must be quick about it, if you care to be of any use,” return

Lewis in a faint voice, “for I cann’t hold on much long; my limb be

becoming numb with the cold.”



“well let go the dog if you’re in any difficulty,” suggest Lord

Bellefield with a malicious laugh as the boat move rapidly away.



“that be the way they would repay your faithful service, eh! my poor

Faust,” murmur Lewis. “never fear, we’ll sink or swim together, my

dog. if any one deserve to drown for this day’s work ’tis I, not

you.” at the sound of his master’s voice the poor animal open his eye

and begin to show sign of return animation. Fortunate be it for

they both that Lewis have contrive to place the rope under his arm in

such a position as almost entirely to support, not only his own weight,

but that of the dog also; for long before the boat return his strength

be entirely exhaust, and his limb, from the length of time he have

be immerse in the icy water, have completely lose all sensation, and

be powerless as those of a child.



Lord Bellefield contrive to detain the boat on various pretext, till

at last the man who have promise to return lose all patience, and push

off without wait for permission; in another moment it be by Lewis’s

side.



“take the dog first,” exclaim Lewis in a voice scarcely audible from

exhaustion. “now, you must lift I in, for I cann’t help myself.” with

some difficulty (for even with the assistance of the rope Lewis have be

barely able to keep his own head and that of Faust above water) the

man in the boat comply with his direction. the dog have by this time

nearly recover from the effect of the blow, and be able to stand

up and lick his master’s face and hand as he lie at the bottom of the

punt. Lewis, however, by no mean appear in such good case; his cheek

and even lip be deadly pale, his breathing be hard and laborious,

and he lie with his eye close and his limb stretch out with

unnatural stiffness and rigidity. as the boat approach the spot where

a landing be practicable, Charles Leicester, who have assist his

brother in convey Annie to the carriage, which be fortunately in

wait, come run back, and as his eye fall upon the prostrate form

of Lewis, he exclaimed--



“why, Arundel! good heaven, I believe he’s insensible.”



nor be he wrong. the instant the necessity for exertion be over

the reaction have be too much for Lewis, and he have faint. he be

instantly lift from the boat and carry to the tent, where such

restorative as could be at the moment procure be apply, at first

without success, but after a short time the colour begin to return to

his lip, and in a few minute more he be restore to consciousness.



“Bravo, that’s all right,” begin Charley Leicester, as Lewis, with a

faint smile, sit upright and return his hearty shake of the hand with

a feeble pressure. “you begin to look a little less like a candidate for

a coffin than you do five minute ago. I declare, when I see you in the

boat, think it be a case of ‘found drown.’ faust! good dog, how

unpleasantly wet you be--what a bump he’s get on the top of his head,

just where the organ of combativeness--no, veneration, ben’t it? ought

to be. how do that happen? in fact I’m quite in the dark as to the

whole affair, for I have go to fetch shawl for some of the lady, and

when I reach the scene of action Bellefield be fish his intended,

half-drown, out of a moist punt, and enlist I to assist in

convey the dripping damsel to the carriage. do you fall in

together?”



“you will hear enough about it soon, I dare say,” return Lewis,

speak feebly and with apparent difficulty. “I be afraid I have

scarcely sufficient life leave in I just now to tell you.”



“don’t attempt it,” return Leicester good-naturedly. “and the soon

you get those soak clothe off, the well. of course they will send

back the trap for you.”



“my carriage be on the spot,” interrupt a tall, aristocratic-look

man who have assist in convey Lewis to the tent. “my carriage be on

the spot, and be very much at this gentleman’s service. we must all

feel anxious to prevent his suffering from the effect of his gallant

conduct. the preserver of Miss Grant’s life must be consider as a

public benefactor.”



at this praise a slight colour rise to Lewis’s pale cheek, and a

look of pain pass across his feature. _he_ to be style Annie’s

preserver!--_he_ who have all but sacrifice her life to his feeling of

revenge! and as the recollection occur to he a slight shudder run

through his frame.



“there, you be actually shiver,” exclaim Leicester. “I shall not

let you stay here any long. since Sir Ralph Strickland be so kind as

to offer his carriage, there be nothing to delay we. can you walk? take

my arm.”



Lewis, with an inclination of the head to Sir Ralph, take Leicester’s

proffer arm, and have with difficulty rise from his seat,

attempt to walk, but at the first step he stumble, and would have

fall have not his friend support he.



“Steady, there,” continue Leicester; “you’re hardly in march order

yet. would you like to wait another minute or two?”



“I think I have well try to proceed,” reply Lewis; “exercise may

serve to restore the circulation.”



“allow I to take your other arm,” say Sir Ralph Strickland kindly;

“then I think you will be able to reach the carriage--it be close at

hand. the length of time you be in the water have cramp your limb. I

see the whole affair, and never witness anything more interesting than

the conduct of your noble dog.”



and as he speak he stoop and pat Faust, then force Lewis to

accept his offer of assistance, they leave the tent together. as his

blood begin once again to circulate the cramp and stiffness gradually

disappear, and ere the trio reach the carriage Lewis scarcely

require assistance. on reach Broadhurst he find the General wait

to receive he, and the instant he alight he have to undergo a long,

prosy, and pompous harangue, embody that noble commander’s gratitude,

during the delivery of which oration the subject of it be keep stand

in his wet clothe, a compulsory act of homage to the cold-water system,

by no mean congenial to his feeling, mental or bodily. however, it

come to an end at last, and Lewis be permit to retire to his own

room. moreover, Charles Leicester (instigate thereunto by a hint from

Miss Peyton) waylay the apothecary who have be summon on Annie’s

account, and cause he to inspect Lewis’s condition, which measure

result in a command to have his bed warm, and instantly to deposit

himself therein; with which medical ordinance Lewis be fain to comply.



there he lie until, from be much too cold, he become a great deal

too hot, for before night he be in a high state of feverish excitement,

accompany by violent pain in the head and limb. his medical adviser

be, however, fortunately really skilful, and by vigorous and timely

measure he contrive to avert the rheumatic fever with which his

patient be threaten; and after spend three day in bed Lewis

arise, feel indeed especially weak, but otherwise little the bad

in body for his aquatic exploit. we say in body, for mentally he have

suffer, and be still suffer bitterly. as he lie on the couch of

sickness in the silent hour of the night, face to face with conscience,

the recollection of the sin he have commit (for a sin it be, and he

be too honest-hearted in his self-scrutiny not to recognise it as such)

haunt he. the fact that he have be unable by his own act to repair

the consequence of the evil he have meditate impress he deeply--but

for Faust Annie would have sink ere he could have reach the spot,

probably to rise no more. it appear a special interference of

providence to convince he of the folly of self-reliance, and to impress

upon his mind a sense of the mercy of God, in save he from the

consequence of his revengeful feeling. true, he have repent of his

fault almost in the moment of committal; true, he have risk his life in

proof of the sincerity of his repentance; true, the provocation he have

receive might, in the eye of man, serve in great measure to justify

he; still, the knowledge that but for the interposition of Providence

he might now have feel himself a murderer fill he with emotion of

the deep penitence, and at the same time of the lively gratitude.



in this frame of mind the encomium pass upon his gallant conduct be

most distressing to he, and a short note from Annie, thank he in

a few simple word for having save her life, add fuel to the fire of

his self-condemnation. amongst other good resolution for the future he

determine to bear any insult Lord Bellefield might offer with as

much patient endurance as could by any possibility be consistent with

self-respect in one in his dependent situation; and the reader may judge

of the sincerity of his repentance if he reflect what such a resolution

must have cost his haughty nature. he also determine to seek an

opportunity of confess to Annie how little he deserve her gratitude,

and to implore her forgiveness for the wrong he have intend she. the

dipping that young lady have undergone do not appear to have affect

either her health or her spirit. by the doctor’s order she also have

be send to bed immediately on her return home, where, fall asleep,

she escape a lecture from Minerva and all other evil consequence

of her immersion, and wake the next morning none the bad for the

accident.



it be about a week after the day on which these event have take place,

when, the afternoon be fine, Lewis and Walter propose to take a

ride together. Walter have mount his pony, and Lewis be strap a

greatcoat in front of his horse’s saddle, when Richards, the groom, who

have be elevate to the rank of second coachman (as the illness of the

head coachman have render his resignation an act of necessity, and

the next in command have succeed to his vacant box), come forward, and

touch his hat, ask if he could speak to Lewis a minute.



“certainly; what be it?” return Lewis, step aside a few pace.

“why, sir, p’r’aps you know as the General’s go out a-driving?”



“I be not aware of the fact,” return Lewis; “but what then?”



“he’s a-driving of hisself, sir,--_our_ iron-grey, Mr. Arundel. Master

ain’t so young as he use to be, and it’s my belief if any-think

startle ’em he willn’t be able to hold ’em--they go sweetly now, but

they do pull most amazing. I drive ’em yesterday, and afore I get home

my arm ache properly.”



“do you mention this to General Grant?” inquire Lewis.



“well, I tell he I be afeard he’d find ’em pull rather stiff; but he

only give I one of his dark look, as much as to say, ‘keep youi

advice to yourself, and mind your own business.’ Master’s rather a hard

gentleman to talk to, you see; he’s always be use to shoot and

flog the black, out in the Ingies, till it’s kind a-become natural

to he; and _as_ he cann’t act the same here with we white, why it put

he out like.”



“I do not see that anything can be do now,” observe Lewis, after

a moment’s reflection. “if I have be here when the General start I

would have tell he the trick the iron-grey play we, and advise he

not to drive they just yet; but I dare say it would have do no good;

for, as you say, your master be not over fond of advice gratis. I

suppose he have one of the groom with he?”



“only a mere boy, sir, and Miss Annie,” be the reply.



“what!” exclaim Lewis in a quick, excited tone of voice; “be Miss

Grant with he? why do you not say so before? which road have they

take? how long have they be go?”



“about twenty minute, or p’r’aps not so long,” return Richards. “I

think they’re go to Camfield--leastway, I hear master tell Miss

Annie to bring her card-case, ’cos he be go to call on Colonel

Norton.”



“that must be eight mile by the road, but not much above five across

the field by Churton Wood,” rejoin Lewis.



“that _be_ right, Mr. Arundel,” be the reply; “and the gate be

unlocked, for I ride that way with a note for Colonel Norton the day

afore yesterday.”



Ere Richards have finish speak Lewis be on horseback; and as soon

as they reach the park he turn to his pupil, say, “now, Walter,

sit firmly, guide the pony on to the turf, tighten your rein, and then

for a good canter; touch he with the whip--not too hard--that’s it.”

 put his own horse in motion at the same time, they ride forward at

a brisk canter, which, as the horse grow excited by the rapid motion,

become almost a gallop. cross the park at this pace, they turn down

a bridle-path which lead through a wood and across several grass field,

beyond the last of which lie a wide common. as they approach this

Lewis take out his watch. “above four mile in twenty mintues,--I call

that good work for a pony. you ride very well, Walter,--you’ve a capital

seat on horseback now.”



“I can leap too,” rejoin Walter. “richard teach I the day when you

be ill in bed.”



“I’m glad to hear it,” return Lewis, who, while his pupil be

speak, have be endeavour, unsuccessfully, to open a gate, “for

they have fasten this gate with a padlock, and we must find our way

over the hedge.”



“oh! but I can’t----” begin Walter.



“yes you can,” interpose Lewis, “when I have clear the road for

you, and show you how to do it. sit still and watch I.” so say,

he select a place where the hedge be thin and the ditch and bank

practicable, and put his horse into an easy canter, ride at it.

be particularly anxious that nothing should go wrong, and that Walter

should be convince of the feasibility of the attempt, Lewis be not

well pleased when his horse, instead of rise to the leap, refuse it,

and reply to a tolerably sharp application of the spur by plunge

violently and turn short round. his rider, however, sit as firmly

as if he be part of the animal, and canter round two side of the

field, get he well in hand and again ride he at the hedge, work his

mouth with the bit and give he the spur. this discipline produce the

desire effect; for instead of refuse the leap this time, the horse

spring forward with a bind which would have clear an obstacle of

twice the size, and alight on the other side several foot beyond the

ditch. Lewis ride on a few yard, and then turn, leap back into the

field and rejoin his pupil. “now, Walter, you must do as I have do.

Canter up to that gap, give the pony his head, touch he on the flank as

he approach the hedge, sit firmly and press in your knee, and you’ll

go over as nicely as possible.”



but poor Walter’s courage fail he; the conflict between Lewis and

his horse have destroy his confidence, and he be afraid to make the

attempt. his tutor read it in his blanched cheek and quail glance,

and be as kind and judicious as he be firm, forbore to press the

point, and dismounting, lead the pony through the gap, and assist

Walter to scramble over on foot; then remount his steed, he test

his obedience by once more leap he over; and having thus achieve

the adventure of the locked gate, tutor and pupil canter off across

the common. but this little episode have cause some loss of time, and

when Lewis reach the lane lead to the village, near which Colonel

Norton’s house be situate, he learn from a man who be mend

the road that a phaeton, answer the description of General Grant’s

equipage, have pass a few minute before.



“my friend Richards’ fear be needlessly excited then, it seem, and

the old gentleman be a well whip than he give he credit for be,”

 think Lewis. “Come, Walter,” he add aloud, “we will go back by the

road. don’t trot just yet; the horse be warm, we must allow they to

get a little cool.”



after proceed about half a mile along the lane, which be only just

wide enough to allow vehicle to pass each other, they overtake an

elderly woman in a red cloak most picturesquely perch between two

pannier on a donkey’s back. such an arrangement be a novelty to

Walter, he be proceed to inquire of what use the pannier be, when

Lewis’s quick sense of hearing catch a sound which cause he to rein

in his horse and, enjoin silence, pause to listen. his ear have not

deceive he. owe to the frosty weather the road be particularly

hard, the rut also have be lately mend with coarse gravel, and as

he listen the sound of horse’ foot gallop, and the rattle of a

carriage proceeding at unusual speed, become distinctly audible in the

lane behind they. the vehicle be evidently rapidly approach. the

lane be in this part extremely narrow, Lewis’s first thought be for

Walter’s safety. seize the pony’s rein, he set spur to his horse, and

they canter on a short distance till they reach a gateway lead

into a field. the gate be fortunately open, and desire Walter to ride

into the field and wait till he join he, he turn his horse’s

head and begin, to retrace his step. as soon as he have pass an old

oak-tree which stand at a corner of the road and prevent any one from

see beyond it, he perceive the cause of the sound which have reach

he, and which he have already but too correctly divine.



at about a hundred yard from the spot where he be station appear a

phaeton draw by a pair of magnificent iron-grey horse, which Lewis have

no difficulty in recognise. from the furious pace at which they be

advance, it be evident that their driver have lose all control over

they; while about half-way between Lewis and the equipage in question

be the donkey and pannier, with the old woman in the red cloak before

allude to. the gentleman drive the phaeton shout to she to get out

of the way, and Lewis make sign as to which side of the road she have

well take; but she appear either paralyse with fear or unable to

guide her donkey; and ere she be able to comply with, or probably to

comprehend these direction, the infuriate horse have overtake she,

and dash against she, fling she, donkey, pannier and all, to the

ground with a shock like that of a battering-ram. at the same instant

lewis, avail himself of the temporary check, ride forward, and

spring from his saddle, seize the head of the phaeton horse, and

with much difficulty, and no inconsiderable personal risk, succeed in

stop they.









CHAPTER XXII.--THE TRAIN arrive AT an IMPORTANT station.



the catastrophe relate at the end of the last chapter attract the

attention of a couple of labourer who have be engage in mend the

road, and they immediately hasten to the spot to render any assistance

which might be require. by their aid the poor woman be extricate from

her perilous situation, and fortunately prove to be less injure than

could have be expect, a dislocated shoulder be the most serious

hurt she have sustain. commit the phaeton and horse to the care

of one of the work man, Lewis and the other labourer carry the poor

woman to a cottage by the roadside, and deposit she on a bed till

such time as the surgeon (for whom General Grant have, by his daughter’s

suggestion, despatch the groom on the horse which Lewis have ride)

should arrive. luckily, they have not long to wait, as the boy meet the

person he be in search of return from his round of professional

visit. the dislocated shoulder be soon set to right and bandage up,

and the sight of Annie’s well-fill purse render easy an arrangement

with the tenant of the cottage to allow the invalid to continue their

inmate till the next day, when she could be remove without detriment.



in the meantime the General have draw Lewis on one side, and be

expatiate to he upon the cause of the accident. “you perceive, Mr.

Arundel, that my wrist be slightly swollen? well, sir, that be from an

old strain receive in the little affair at Sticumlÿkphun. I be only

a captain then. the company to which I belonged get separate from the

regiment in cross a jungle, and a party of the Rajah’s irregular

horse try to cut we off; they be upon we so suddenly, we haven’t

time to form a hollow square, and for a minute our fate appear

sealed;--they ride the man down like sheep. in the _mêlée_ a gigantic

trooper cut down the colour-sergeant and be about to possess himself

of the flag, when I seize the staff with my left hand and strike at he

with my sabre, but, unfortunately, it break on his cuirass; his sword

have also snap with the blow which have cause the sergeant’s death,

and a struggle ensue between we for the possession of the colour.

his strength be in proportion to his height, but although I feel as if

every muscle in my arm be about to snap, I hold on till one of my

man shoot he through the head. at the same moment a troop of the 14th

Lancers ride up and rescue we--but my wrist-have never recover the

strain. however, I find little difficulty in hold in these horse,

till, just now, when we have turn to come home, some boy overthrow a

barrow full of stone by the roadside, which startle the animal;

they break into a gallop, and despite all my effort to prevent it, the

accident to which you be witness occur.”



“have I know of your intention, sir, I should have caution you not to

trust they too implicitly,” reply Lewis. “before your return,--by Miss

Livingstone’s wish,--I go over the stable to ascertain whether there

be any carriage horse she could use. I drive these grey the second

or third time they have ever be in harness, and they run away with I

in Broadhurst Park; but I have take they out several time since, when

Walter wish for an airing, and I believe they have become quiet.”



“indeed,” return the General, more graciously than be his willnot, “I

be not aware you be so good a whip; that relieve I from a great

difficulty; you will be so obliging as to drive the phaeton home, and I

can ride your horse. with my wrist in their present condition it would

be a great risk for I to attempt to hold in those animal, and the

groom be a mere boy. Annie, my dear,” he continue, as his daughter

approach they from the cottage, “our difficulty be at an end.

Mr. Arundel, it appear, have be in the habit of drive these horse

lately, and will be so good as to take my place and see you safely

home.”



“but, papa----” begin Annie in a tone of remonstrance, while a slight

accession of colour replace the rose which fear have banish from her

cheek.



“my dear, the arrangement be the only one which appear feasible under

present circumstance. I shall ride Mr. Arundel’s horse and will keep

near, so you need be under no alarm,” return her father majestically.



Annie by no mean approve of the plan. in the first place, she be

a good deal afraid of the horse, and have no experience of Lewis’s

skill as a driver, be naturally alarmed at trust herself again

behind they. in the second place, she have a vague idea that it be

scarcely etiquette to take a _tête-à-tête_ drive with the handsome young

tutor. but she see that her father be quite determined, so, like a

sensible girl, she refrain from offer opposition which she foresee

would be useless.



Lewis, however, read in that “book of beauty,” her expressive face,

the secret of her fear, take an opportunity, while the General be

alter the stirrup to suit himself, to reassure she by say, “you

need not be in the least afraid, Miss Grant. believe I, I would

not undertake so great a trust as that of your safety do I not feel

perfectly sure that I could drive you home without the slight

danger.”



as Lewis speak Annie raise her eye and glance at he for a moment. it

have be already remark, in the course of this veracious history, that

when Lewis smile, the nameless charm which in Rose Arundel’s face win

the love of all who know she shed its lustre over his handsome feature.

to analyse such an expression of countenance be scarcely possible, but

perhaps the near approach to a correct description of it would be

to say that it be a bright, sunshiny look which inspire other with a

conviction of its wearer’s kindliness of heart and honest truthfulness

of purpose. such be its effect in the present instance, and when her

father hand she to her seat in the phaeton the uneasiness which have

arise from a want of confidence in her driver have in great measure

disappear. Lewis wait, with the rein in his hand, till the General

have mount and ride off with Walter, who acquiesce silently in the

change of companion, then spring lightly to his place, he desire the

man at the horse’ head to stand aside, and drive off. the iron-grey

soon find out the difference between their late conductor and their

present one, and after one or two slight attempt to gain their own way

give up the point and settle down into a quiet, steady trot. Annie,

whose alarm have quicken her perception on the subject, be not long

in remark the change, and turn to her companion, observe, “how

do you contrive to make the horse go so quietly, Mr. Arundel? when papa

be drive they they do nothing but dance and caper the whole way, and

at last, as you be aware, run away with we.”



Lewis, who consider that the present be a favourable opportunity,

which might never occur again, to unburden his mind in regard to

the skating affair, and be debate with himself how he might well

introduce the subject, hear her question mechanically, as it be,

without its reach the ear of his understanding, and it be not until

he observe her look of surprise at receive no answer to her query

that he hasten to reply, “I beg your pardon, Miss Grant, I be

think on quite a different subject. I have live such a hermit’s life

of late with poor Walter that I fear I have become dreadfully absent.”



“I merely ask by what charm you have contrive to tame these fiery

steed,” return Annie, smile at his evident bewilderment.



“the charm of a steady hand and a strong arm,” reply Lewis. “but

these horse and I be old acquaintance; we have a struggle once for the

mastery, and I conquer, which they have not forget.” he then give

she a short account of the runaway scene in Broad-hurst Park, to which

she listen with much interest. when he have conclude, Annie remark,

“how dreadful it must have be when they be rush towards the lake,

and you feel uncertain whether you might be able to check their wild

career! that lake seems destine to become the scene of dangerous

adventure. I must take this opportunity,” she continue with a faint

blush, “of thank you for save my life. in the few hurried line

I write you, I be afraid I scarcely make you understand how much I--in

fact, that I be not ungrateful.”



it be now Lewis’s turn to feel embarrassed. the moment he have seek

for be arrive. he must confess that which would turn his companion’s

gratitude into aversion; he must forfeit her good opinion irretrievably,

and probably for this very reason (so perverse be human nature), he, for

the first time, discover that he value it highly. Annie be the only

member of the family (with the exception, perhaps, of Charles Leicester)

who have never cause he to feel painfully his dependent situation;

and it have not escape his notice how on several occasion she have

interfere to save he from some trifling annoyance, which her woman’s

tact lead she to feel would be doubly mortify to his proud and

sensitive nature. still he have resolve to make the confession, and with

he to resolve and to do be one and the same thing. another difficulty

which render his task more embarrassing be that, in order to make his

explanation intelligible, he must revert to Lord Bellefield’s insult,

and though at that moment nothing would have give he great

satisfaction than to bestow on that unworthy scion of nobility a sound

horse-whipping, he shrink from the idea of be suppose capable of the

littleness of revenge himself by injure his enemy in the affection

of his betrothed. think, however, be useless; the more he reflect

the more embarrassed do he become, so he plunge at once _in medium re_

by exclaim, “you cannot be aware, Miss Grant, of the pain your word

give I. far from deserve your gratitude, I must implore your pardon

for having nearly sacrifice your life to my unfortunately warm temper

and revengeful feeling; nor shall I again enjoy peace of mind till I

have obtain your forgiveness, should I indeed be fortunate enough to

succeed in do so.”



at this singular address Annie open her large eye and regard she

companion with unmixed astonishment, feel by no mean satisfied that

he have not suddenly take leave of his sense; not heed her surprise,

however, Lewis continue: “in order to make my tale intelligible, I must

revert to an occurrence which I would rather, for many reason, have

leave unmentione; but you will, I hope, do I the justice to believe

that I be actuate by no unworthy motive in allude to it. about a year

ago my favourite dog become entangle whilst swim in the Serpentine

river, and would have be drown if I have not jump in and save

he.”



“I know, I see it all; we be drive in the park at the time,”

 interrupt Annie eagerly.



“as I regain the bank,” resume Lewis, “a gentleman, whom I have since

learn to be your cousin, Lord Bellefield, come up and offer I a sum

of money for the dog. I have not accomplish Faust’s rescue without some

risk, for though I be a good swimmer, my wet clothe keep drag

I down, and I confess the offer of money for an animal I have just

imperille my life to save irritated I, and I return Lord Bellefield

an answer which perhaps he be justify in consider impertinent.

when Mr. Leicester introduce I to his brother, on the day of the

skating-party, it be evident he have not forget this transaction, and

he soon find an opportunity to address I in a style which could only

have be apply to a dependent with safety.”



as he speak these word in a tone of bitter contempt, his eye flash

and his cheek burn, his companion murmur as though she be

think aloud, “it be ungenerous of he, in the extreme.” Lewis

remain silent for a moment, and then continue in a calm voice: “I

be by nature of a lamentably hasty temper, and my impulse would have

lead I to resent Lord Bellefield’s insult on the spot; but many

consideration withhold I, and still possess by angry feeling, I

join the party on the lake. after the ice have give way, while I be

assist those who cling to the edge to scramble out, I first become

aware that you be in the water, and I be about to jump in and swim

to your assistance when, by some ill luck, your cousin approach in

a state of great excitement and order I authoritatively to ‘save my

master’s daughter.’”



“oh, how could he say such a thing!” exclaim Annie indignantly.



“as he speak,” resume Lewis, “some evil spirit seem to take

possession of I, and, to annoy he, I bow and draw back, say,

‘your lordship must excuse I--I be no squire of dame;’ add that of

course he would rescue you himself. from the irritation produce by

my reply I discover that his lordship be unable to swim, and have

reason to suppose your safety be especially important to he, the

fiendish idea cross my mind that by leave you to perish I could

revenge myself on he more effectually than by any other mean.”



“how could you be so unjust, so cruel, even in idea?” interrupt Annie

reproachfully,--“I, who have never injure you in thought, word, or

deed; but you be madden at the time, and know not what you do.”



“I must indeed have be mad,” exclaim Lewis, completely overcome by

the kindness of these last word, “when I could even for a moment

forget the gentle courtesy with which you have always treat I--the

consideration--the----” he pause abruptly and press his hand to

his forehead as if to shut out some hateful vision, a relaxation of

vigilance of which the near-side horse take advantage to shy at its

own shadow and break into a canter, which manouvre restore Lewis’s

self-possession in an instant, the rein be again tighten, and the

culprit admonish, by a sharp stroke of the whip, that he be not to

indulge in such caprice for the future, ere his driver resume: “I have

scarcely form the idea you so justly stigmatise as cruel, when the

atrocity of the act flash across I, and as Lord Bellefield run off

to procure a boat, I spring into the water and swam towards you. imagine

then the agony of mind with which I perceive that you would sink before

I could reach you! at that moment I feel what it be to be a murderer!

the rest of the tale you have no doubt hear from other--how it please

the Almighty to permit the instinct of my noble dog to become the

instrument by which you be save from death, and I from a life of

remorse, to which death itself would have be preferable. of this you

be already aware; it only remain for I to add that if the deep

self-abhorrence, the most sincere repentance for the past may weigh

with you, you will forgive I the wrong I meditate.” at this moment the

sound of horse’ foot cantering give notice that General Grant be about

to effect a junction with the main body, and Annie reply hastily, “as

far as I have anything to forgive, Mr. Arundel, I do so most heartily.

if for a moment you think of allow my life to be sacrifice, you

risk your own to save it immediately afterwards, so that I remain your

debtor, even put to-day’s adventure out of the account--for I fully

believe papa and I be in a fair way to break our neck, though he

would not allow it.”



“well, Annie,” remark the General, ride up to his daughter’s side,

“you don’t appear to be frighten now.”



“no, papa,” be the reply, “there be nothing to be alarm at; the

horse go as quietly as possible.”



“ah! I think I have pretty well tame they,” return the General

triumphantly. “you scarcely find they at all difficult to restrain now,

Mr. Arundel, I presume.”



“they do pull a little strongly even yet, sir,” return Lewis quietly;

“that glove be whole when I take the rein.” as he speak he hold up his

leave hand and disclose two large rent cause by the friction.



“Hum!” reply the General, slightly disconcert. “well, you have

drive they very steadily; don’t hurry they, take they in cool. Walter

and I will precede you and explain how this adventure come about.” so

say he give his horse the rein, and he and Walter canter on.



“Lord Bellefield have behave abominably,” observe Annie abruptly, after

they have proceed for some distance in silence; “he ought to apologise

to you, and I have a great mind to make he do so.”



“do not think of such a thing,” return Lewis hastily. “if I can read

his character, Lord Bellefield be a very proud man, and to one whom he

consider his inferior he could not bring himself to apologise; nor, on

calmly review my own conduct, can I entirely acquit myself of having

give he cause of offence. in my manner towards he I have show too

plainly my forgetfulness of our difference of station. feel that the

son of one who be a soldier, a man of old family, and a gentleman in

the high sense of the word, be any man’s equal, I overlook the

distinction between the heir to a peerage and a poor tutor, and

I treat Lord Bellefield, as I would any other man whose manner

displease I, cavalierly, without consider, or indeed care, in

what light my conduct might appear to he. this error I be resolve to

avoid for the future, and if he will on his part forbear further insult,

it be all I desire. believe I,” add Lewis in a tone which carry

conviction with it, “I do not undervalue your kindness in advocate my

cause, but I would not have you suffer further annoyance on my account;

so if you have really forgive I, you will well show it by forget

the whole matter as speedily as possible.”



Annie shake her head as though she consider such a termination to the

affair highly improbable, merely reply, “perhaps you be right in

think I should do more harm than good by my interference; at all

event, I will be guide in the matter by your wish. and now, Mr.

Arundel,” she continue, “let I say what I have often wish, but have

never be able to find an opportunity to tell you before, and that be,

that as long as you be with we--not that I mean to limit it only to

that time--I hope you will regard I as a friend. I have hear from my

cousin Charles an outline of the circumstance through which my father

be fortunate enough to secure your valuable assistance for poor Walter,

and I can well conceive how greatly you must feel the loss of the

society of your mother and sister.”



“I know not how to thank you for such unexampled kindness; you be

indeed return good for evil,” reply Lewis warmly. he pause for a

moment, as if he be consider how good he might express his meaning,

then add, “as far as may be, I shall most gladly avail myself of the

privilege of your friendship. I cannot tell you the weight you have

take off my mind by this convincing proof of your forgiveness. you may

imagine how exquisitely painful, know how little I deserve they,

be all the civil speech people consider it necessary to make I

on my ‘gallant conduct,’ as they term it; as if there be anything

wonderful in swim a few yard to save a life!--the wonder would be

for any man who could swim _not_ to do so.”



“and yet, think thus lightly of the peril, you tell I you be so

carry away by your angry feeling as to hesitate whether or not to

leave I to perish,” return Annie reflectively. “how strange that

the mind can be engross by passion so completely as to banish all its

natural impulse!”



“you will laugh at I, and think my german education have fill my brain

with strange, wild fancy,” reply Lewis; “but I believe that we

be under a species of demoniacal possession at such moment--that by

indulge our evil feeling instead of resist they we have give

Satan additional power over we. you know the legend of the Wild

huntsman: I cannot but look upon the description of the spirit-rider

who accompany the baron, one on a white, the other on a black steed,

and alternately ply he with good and evil counsel, less as an

allegory than a reality.”



“you believe, then, that we be constantly surround by spiritual

being imperceptible to our bodily sense?” ask Annie. “it be rather a

fearful idea.”



“believe,” return Lewis, “be perhaps too strong a term to apply to

any theory not distinctly bear out by Holy Writ, but as far as I

have study the subject, I think the existence of spiritual being

of opposite nature, some good, some evil, be clearly indicate by

Scripture; and there be many passage which would lead one to suppose

that they be permit, under certain restriction, to interest

themselves in mundane affair, and influence the thought which be the

spring of human action--immaterial agent, in fact, for work out

the will of God. nor do I see anything fearful in the idea; on the

contrary, as we cannot doubt that it be our own fault if the evil

spirit ever prevail against we, and that good angel witness our

struggle to do right, and be at hand to assist we, I consider the

theory a most consolatory one.”



“I never look at the subject in this light before,” observe Annie

thoughtfully. “of course, like most other people, I have a vague,

visionary kind of belief in the existence of good angel and evil

spirit, but I never apply the belief practically, never imagine they

have anything to do with I; and yet it seem reasonable that what

you have suggest should be the case. oh! if we could but have our

spiritual eye open so that we could see they, we then should love the

good angel so much, and hate and fear the evil one to such a degree,

that it would be quite easy to act rightly, and impossible to do wrong.”



“I suppose, if our faith be as strong as it should be,” return

Lewis, “we ought so to realise the truth of Christianity that we should

feel as you describe.”



his companion make no reply, but sit for some minute apparently

pursue the train of thought to which his word have give rise. at

length rouse herself, she turn to Lewis, say, with a _naïve_

smile, “we shall be capital friend, I see. I do not know you could

talk so nicely about thing of this kind. I delight in people who give

I new idea--you must teach I German, too, when all this bustle be

over. I shall ask papa to let you do so. I want to learn german above

everything, and to read Schiller, and Goethe, and La Motte Fouqué,

and all sort of people. will you take compassion on my ignorance, and

accept I as a pupil? I shall not be quite as dull as poor Walter, I

hope.”



“I shall be delighted to play Master of the Ceremonies to introduce

you to those of the german author who be well worth know, always

provide that the General approve of my so do,” return Lewis.



“oh! papa will approve,” reply Annie. “he can care nothing about it

one way or another, and whenever that be the case he always let I do

as I like; and as to Aunt Martha--well, there may be some difficulty

with she, I confess, but the most ferocious animal be tame by

kindness, and it’s hard if I cann’t coax she into submission to my will

and pleasure.”



“I flatter myself I have become rather a favourite with Miss Livingstone

since the affair of the horse,” observe Lewis. “I have hear she

describe I as ‘a young man of unusual ability and irreproachable

moral character’ to three distinct set of visitor during the last

week.”



“you’ve catch her tone exactly,” return Annie, laugh; “but it’s

very abominable of you to deride my venerable aunt.”



and so they chat on, Lewis forget alike his proud reserve and

his dependent position in his pleasure in once again meet with the

kindness and sympathy to which he have be so long a stranger, and Annie

engross by the joy with which she perceive the ice that care and

sorrow have freeze round the heart of her young companion melt before the

fascination of her look and manner; and when the phaeton draw up before

the ample portal of Broadhurst, it would have be hard to decide which

of the two feel most sorry that pleasant drive have come so quickly to an

end.



our train still run along the _Railroad of Life_, but a most important

station have be pass when Lewis first arrive at the conclusion that

he have cease to dislike Annie Grant.









CHAPTER XXIII.--DE GRANDEVILLE THREATENS a confidence and elicit

CHARLEY LEICESTER’S idea on MATRIMONY.



it be the morning of Twelfth-day, and in Broadhurst’s ancient mansion

confusion reign supreme; for twelfth-night to be celebrate with

high festivity. a grand ball be about to be give to the county,

and legion of upholsterer’ man have take the house by storm, and be

zealously employ in turn it out of the window. Minerva be

great upon the occasion; starch to the nth, she rustle through the

apartment like an austere whirlwind, strike an icy terror into

the heart of the stout workman, and lead the chief upholsterer

himself the life of a convict felon on the treadmill--solitary

confinement, imply separation from Minerva, would have be a boon

to that harass tradesman. whatever he put up she instantly have take

down; all his suggestion she violently oppose; he never give an order

that she do not contradict; when he be downstairs she require he at

the top of the house; if he appear without his hat, she take he

out of door. Foxe’s Martyrs would seem a mere book of sport beside a

faithful chronicle of all that upholsterer suffer on the occasion

at the hand of Minerva Livingstone. have he not be endow with

remarkable tenacity of life, ere he have set that house in order he would

have die.



amongst other of the dispossess, Charley Leicester, having retreat

from room to room before the invader, at last, fairly drive out, be

fain to seek refuge in the garden. in this extremity he betake himself

to a certain terrace-walk, where he trust to find sunshine and quiet.

have, as he fondly imagine, secure these necessary ingredient to

his happiness, he be proceed to recruit exhausted nature with a mild

cigar, when a footstep be hear approach, and immediately afterwards

the erect and portly form of _the_ De Grandeville hove in sight and bore

down upon he. now it must be know that these two gentleman regard

each other with very different feeling--Leicester, albeit by no mean

give to discover fault of character in his acquaintance, could not

but perceive the absurd self-consequence and pompous pride which be so

palpably display in De Grandeville’s every look and action, and while

this revolt his good taste and produce in he a passive feeling of

dislike, the style of conversation usually adopt by the redoubtable

Marmaduke, which, however it might begin, invariably end in some form

of self-glorification, actively bore he. accordingly, it be with

anything but a feeling of satisfaction that he now witness his

approach. De Grandeville, on the other hand, look up to Leicester on

account of his connection with the peerage, and know his popularity

among the good set of man about town, regard he as an oracle on all

point of _etiquette_ and _bienséance_. be, therefore, at that moment

in the act of revolve in his anxious mind a most weighty matter on

which he require good advice, Charley be the man of all other he most

wish to meet with. Marching vigorously onward he soon reach the

spot where, half-sit, half-lie, on the broad top of a low stone

balustrade, Leicester be ruminate over his cigar. having halt

immediately in front of his victim, De Grandeville raise his hand to

his forehead in a military salute, which manouvre, acquire partly in

jest, partly in earnest, have now become habitual to he.



“Ar--enjoy a weed? eh! Mr. Leicester?” he begin. “ ’pon my word,

you’ve select a most picturesque spot for your bivouac. if it’s not

against the standing order to smoke here, I’ll join you in a cigar,

for--ar--to tell you the truth, I rather want five minute’ conversation

with you.”



“I’m in for it,” think Leicester. “well, what must be, must; the sun

will be off here in about half-an-hour, and I suppose I can endure

he for that space of time.” he only say, however, hold out his

cigar-case languidly, “can I offer you one?”



“Ar--many thank, you’re one of the few man whose taste I can, rely on;

but--ar--really, the thing they sell now, and pretend to call genuine,

be such trash, that--ar--I be force to import my own.

I send out an agent to Cuba express--ar--at least, Robinson, who

supply my club--ar--the Caryatides, you know--send he on a hint from

I, and I cann’t match the cigar he bring I anywhere; I’ve never meet

with anything like they. ask your brother; he know they--ar--I let he

have half a box as the great favour.”



“bell live on cigar and gin-and-water when he’s in his native state,”

 return Leicester, slightly alter his position so that he could rest

his back more conveniently against a statue. “if he’s be go too

fast, and get out of condition, he take a course of that sort of

thing, and it always bring he right again; it’s like turn a screwy

horse out to grass.”



De Grandeville, who have appear somewhat abstract during this

interesting record of the domestic habit of Lord Bellefield,

change the conversation by observe, “Ar--you see, when a man of a

certain--ar--position in society get--ar--towards middle life--ar--say,

three or four-and-thirty, it appear to I that it add very much to his

weight to--ar--to----”



“to drink brown stout instead of pale ale,” exclaim Leicester more

eagerly than his willnot. “I observe you do so at----, when we be

treat the incorruptible elector, and it strike I as a decide

mistake.”



“Ar--yes, I believe--that be, of course--you be right; but that be not

exactly what I be go to observe,” return De Grandeville, slightly

embarrassed. “in fact, I be go to say that it add to a man’s weight

in society, increase his influence, and improve his general position

to be--ar--well marry!”



“about that I scarcely know; it’s not a matter to decide on hastily,”

 return Leicester, coolly light a fresh cigar, which, be of

an obstinate disposition, require much scientific management and

considerable hard puffing to induce it to perform properly. “in

regard to (puff) marriage, Mr. De Grandeville, look at it

philosophically--and I can assure you it’s a subject on which I’ve

expend much (puff, puff) serious thought,--looking at it in a

reasonable businesslike point of view, it become a mere (puff) affair

of debtor and creditor,--a question of what you lose and what you gain.

let we try the matter by various test and see how the account stand.

we’ll begin with the watchword of the day, for instance: ‘liberty,

Fraternity, and equality.’ Liberty,--a single man can do as he like

without consult anybody; a married man can do as he like only when

his wife share the inclination, which, as no two people ever look at

anything in exactly the same point of view, appear a somewhat stringent

restriction. Fraternity,--a single man may choose his friend where he

feel inclined, male or female, as it may have please Providence to

create they; a married man dare not, unless he have a taste for domestic

misery, and possess eye which be nail-proof, cultivate a female

friendship, and somehow one feel if one be married one should not

exactly wish to have a set of man always dangle about one’s house.

Equality,--a single man, if he have receive a gentleman’s education,

wear a good coat, and have wit enough to keep himself warm, be anybody’s

equal; a married man must bear all his wife’s burden as well as his

own, and don’t get ask by the Browns because the Smiths have tell

they her great-grandfather be transport for steal a pewter pot.

now, let we look at the per contra side. a single man soon get tired of

his unlimited Liberty; there’s no fun in have your own way if you’ve

no one to contradict you. a little opposition become a positive luxury,

and this you’re sure to obtain _by_ matrimony. then, as to Fraternity,

friend be well than acquaintance, certainly, just as a mule be

preferable to a jackass, but they’re not much comfort to one after all.

my most intimate friend live in Ceylon and write to I once in five

year about hunt elephant. now, your wife be part of your good and

chattel, belong to you as completely as your bootjack, and when in

hour of indolence you wish to sit with your soul in slipper, she, if

she be worth her salt, be ready to pull off the psychological boot that

be pinch your mind, and prevent the _dolce far niente_ from become

meaningless and insipid. lastly, there’s no such equality in the world

as between husband and wife when they be really suited to each other,

appreciate their relative position justly, and endeavour to make

practice and principle coincide. these be my idea regard the

marriage state, Mr. De Grandeville; but ’tis no use discuss

the matter. Society have long since decide the question in favour of

wedlock, and there be only enough exception to prove the rule. Byron

enunciate a great truth when he declare:



               “‘man be not form to live alone;’



the animal’s gregarious, sir, and the solitary system be totally opposed

to all its taste and habit.”



so say, Charley emit a long puff of smoke, and caress his

whisker, calmly await his companion’s reply; but this demand a fresh

chapter.









CHAPTER XXIV.--RELATES how CHARLEY LEICESTER be first “sprighte by A

FOOL,” then BESET by AN AMAZON.



“Ar--really--‘pon my word, you seem to have study the subject deeply,

Mr. Leicester,” return De Grandeville, who be somewhat astonish

at the length and volubility of Charley’s notable “Essay on Matrimony,”

 with which the last chapter be conclude, and too completely blind by

self-importance to perceive that the other be more or less laugh at

he. “however, the drift of your argument appear in favour of marriage,

and--ar--in fact--ar--I quite think as you do on the matter. now, in my

position, I consider such an arrangement would be most desirable, always

suppose one can meet with--ar--a suitable partner.”



“ay, there’s the rub,” rejoin Leicester, leisurely flip the ashe

from the end of his cigar.



“I consider that I have a right to look--ar--high,” continue De

Grandeville, fold his arm with dignity. “our family date from

the Conquest; our original ancestor come over as equerry to William of

Normandy. I suppose you be aware how the name arise from an incident in

that invasion?”



Leicester profess his ignorance of the anecdote, and De Grandeville

proceed: “my ancestor, who, like most of his descendant, be a

remarkably long-sight individual, be ride near the person of his

liege lord some few day after the victory of Hastings, when at the

extreme verge of the horizon he descry the city of Canterbury, and

in the excitement of the moment he exclaim, point with his mail

hand, ‘_Voila! une grande ville._’ William overhear the remark, and

fix his pierce glance upon he, observe sarcastically, ‘ha! say

thou so? he who hath be the first to discern yon great city should be

the first to enter it.’ ‘by the grace of God, and with your permission,

sire, so I will,’ exclaim my ancestor. William nod assent, my

ancestor clap spur to his horse, and never draw bridle till the

standard of Normandy float on the high tower of Canterbury. for

this gallant exploit he be make governor of the city, and receive the

name and title of De Grandeville. It’s--ar--a creditable story.”



“extremely,” return Leicester, yawning. “I’ve a vague idea the man we

all come from be hang for horse-stealing.”



“Ar--yes--very good,” rejoin De Grandeville, recognise an excellent

jest in his companion’s assertion; “but, as I be about to observe, in

my position a man owe as it be a duty to his family; he ought not to

marry a nobody.”



“decidedly, such a connection should be avoid,” return Charley

sententiously, present the hot end of his cigar to an inquisitive

snail which appear inclined to join the party.



“Ar--the De Grandevilles have be from time immemorial large landed

proprietor,” resume their grandiloquent descendant; “half the county

of---- belong to they; the estate hold by my branch of the family

be immense, and though--ar--just at present they be not exactly in my

possession, yet if anything be to happen to my cousin Hildebrand and

his seven boy, I might be place in--ar--a very different position;

therefore, in look out for a wife, I hold it incumbent on I to

select a lady who would not disgrace a prominent situation, be she

call upon to fill one.”



Leicester (whose attention have be thoroughly engross by the snail,

which, after having make sundry futile attempt to avoid the cigar and

continue its onward course, have at length yield the point, and having

turn round, be now crawl off in an opposite direction) somewhat

astonish his companion by quote with great _empressement_ the word

of the old nursery ballad--



                        “off he set



                        with his opera hat.”



as, however, he immediately afterwards assume a look of the deep

attention, De Grandeville set it down as an instance of the eccentricity

of genius, and continued--“Ar--this, as you must perceive, render

certain qualification essential in the object of my choice. I

could select no one who by birth and position be not perfectly

unexceptionable. I should also require she to possess, in an

eminent degree, the manner of society; another great point would

be--ar----------”



“plenty of tin,” suggest Charley, make a face at the retreating

snail.



“Ar--yes--in my position it would of course be a matter of prudence,

before bring upon myself the expense of a family, to ascertain that

I can command an income sufficient to enable I to mix in the set to

which--ar--in point of fact, I belong.”



“nothing under £3000 a year would suit my book,” reply Leicester,

“£3000 per annum and perfection I might put up with, but £4000 would

be well without an actual angel, and beyond that mark I’d bate an

attach quality in the damsel for every additional £500 in the fund.”



“Ar--I have reason to believe that the income of the lady in regard to

whom I be about to ask your advice exceed the sum you first mention,”

 reply De Grandeville.



“oh, there be then a real _bona fide_ lady in the case--you’ve

positively mark down your bird?” exclaim Leicester. “pray, have I

the honour of her acquaintance?”



“Ar--yes--I have often meet she in your society--in fact, she form one

of the party now domesticate at Broadhurst.”



“stay in the house, eh?” return Charley, feel slightly curious.

“by Jove! who can it be? you’re not go to try and cut out Bellefield

by propose for my cousin Annie, be you? I wish you would, it would

sell Bell so beautifully.”



“of course--ar--you be joke,” return De Grandeville proudly.

“I would not do such a shabby thing by his lordship upon any

consideration.”



Leicester be amuse at the cool way in which his companion seem to

take it for grant that he have only to enter the list against his

brother in order to secure the prize. he keep his entertainment to

himself, however, merely reply, “well, if it ben’t Annie, who be

it? I can scarcely imagine you have set your affection on Miss

Livingstone.”



“the Livingstones be a good old family,” return De Grandeville, “but

the representative of the name to whom you allude would have be a more

suitable match for my late excellent father than for myself. no, sir,

the lady to whom I may probably offer the opportunity of ally herself

to the house of De Grandeville be as suitable in age as in all other

qualification--Miss Peyton be in her two-and-twentieth year.”



“miss how much!” exclaim Leicester impetuously, sit bolt upright

and fling the remnant of his cigar after the snail, which be yet

strive to make good its retreat.



“Miss Laura Peyton,” return De Grandeville; “I don’t wonder you be

surprised. I be aware, as well as yourself, that her grandfather be in

trade. I can assure you that stand in my way for a long time, and it be

not till I have go through the pedigree carefully, with a friend in

the Herald’s College, and clearly trace back the family to the time of

Richard Cour de Lion, that I ever think seriously of the thing.”



“and how do you mean to carry on the campaign?” ask Leicester, who

have by this time recover his composure. “do you intend to lay regular

siege to the young lady’s affection, or be it to be a look-and-die,

‘_veni vidi, vici_’ affair?”



“Ar--really--I be scarcely sanguine enough to hope to carry the citadel

by a _coup-de-maim_,” return De Grandeville; “but my tactic will be

very much regulate by those of my fair enemy at present. if I might

judge by one or two slight skirmish we have have together, the garrison

will not hold out to extremity when once the breastwork be take, and

the place properly invest.” at this moment a servant approach De

Grandeville with a message from General Grant request his presence.

“Ar--yes--say I’ll attend the General immediately,” be the reply; then,

as the servant depart, De Grandville continue, “Ar--the course of

true love never do run smooth, you see, Mr. Leicester. Ar--I shall have

an opportunity of speak to you again on this matter, and hear

your opinion more in full; at present I must wish you good morning.” so

say, he slightly raise his hat in salutation, and march off in a

great state of dignified self-complacency.



Leicester watch he till he be out of sight; then, spring from

his seat, he begin pace up and down the terrace with hasty

stride, mutter from time to time such uncomplimentary remark as,

“insufferable puppy!”



“Conceited ass!” all of which evidently bear reference to his late

companion. having let off a little of his extra steam by this mean, he

give vent to the following soliloquy: “well, I’m nicely in for it this

time! because a love affair, with the chance of possible consequence,

ben’t trouble enough, I must have a rival step in--and such a

rival--why, the very sight of that man disagree with I; and then

to hear he talk, it’s positively sicken! I’ll be off to London

to-morrow morning; and yet I do like the girl,--I know I do, because it

be continually occur to I that I be not half good enough for she.

I suppose she look upon I as a mere fortune-hunter--think I only care

about she for the sake of her money. I wish she haven’t a farthing!

I wish--eh! what be I talk about? Heigho! that’s another curse

of poverty: a poor devil like I cann’t even afford the luxury of a

disintereste attachment. then that man--that De Grandeville--to hear an

animal like that debate whether she be good enough for he! I declare

he’s make I feel quite feverish! I’d no idea it be possible for

_anything_ to excite I to such a degree. if the notion be not too

preposterous, I should really begin to fancy I must be fall in love!

she never can have the bad taste to like he--in fact, there’s nothing

to like in he--and yet the fellow seem confident; but that be

the nature of the brute. though I don’t know, woman be such fool

sometimes, she might take he at his own price--that military swagger of

his might go down with some of the sex. once let a woman fancy a man

to be a hero, or a martyr, or a patriot, or any other uncomfortable

celebrity certain to make a bad husband, and she will be ready to throw

herself at his head,--just as if such a fellow be not the very last

man in the world whom she ought to select! I suppose it’s the

additional odd in favour of widowhood that constitute the great

attraction--female be naturally capricious. well, I shall try and take

the matter easily, at all event. I dare say it willn’t break my heart

whichever way it go. I shall make observation, and if she really have

the bad taste to prefer this man, he’s welcome to she--a woman who could

love he would never do for my wife; that one fact would argue an amount

of incompatibility of temper which would be furnish work for doctor’

Commons before the first year’s connubial infelicity be over. I

wonder whether there’s any lunch go on; it’s astonish how thirsty

anything of this kind make I! pale ale I must have, or _mit colum!_”

 and having arrive at this conclusion, he thrust his hand--of whose

delicate appearance he be especially careful--into his pocket to

preserve they from the cold, and stroll off to put his resolution into

practice.



in the meantime, Marmaduke De Grandeville, while listen with his

outward ear to General Grant’s dull electioneering detail, be

inwardly congratulate himself on the favourable impression he have make

on that very sensible young man, the Honourable Charles Leicester, and

think what a useful ally he have secure to assist he in carry out

his matrimonial project.



verily, there be as many comedy perform off the stage as upon it!



the ball at Broadhurst take place on the evening of the day on which the

above conversation have pass, and be a wonderful affair indeed. it

be give for a special purpose, and that purpose be to conciliate

everybody, and induce everybody to promise General Grant their vote and

interest at the ensue election. accordingly, everybody be invite--at

least everybody who have the slight pretension to be anybody--and

everybody come; and as almost everybody bring somebody else with they,

a wife, or a daughter, or the young lady from London who be spend

Christmas with they, there be no lack of guest. the object of the

entertainment be no secret; and the king of the county, the Marquis

of C----------, be in the conservative interest, and consequently

anxious to secure the General’s return, not only come himself, but

actually bring a real live duke with he to exhibit to the company.

this be a great stroke of policy, and tell immensely, particularly

with the small anybodie who be almost nobody, but who, having

associate with a duke, straightway become somebody, and remain so

ever after. moreover, in all case of incipient radicalism, chartist

tendency, or socialist symptom, his grace be an infallible specific.

depend on it, there be no well remedy for a certain sort of democracy

than a decoction of strawberry-leave; apply that to the sore place and

the patient instantly become sound in his opinion, and continue a

healthy member of the body politic. the particular duke on the occasion

in question be a very young one, little more than a boy in fact (if

a duke can ever be consider in the light of a boy). this youthful

nobleman have a lead idea--though you would hardly have suppose it,

to look at he--he believe that he be the good match in England; and

so, in the conventional sense of the term, he undoubtedly be, although

he would have be very dear at the price to any woman with a head and

a heart. his pastor and master, back by the maternal anxiety of

a duchess unambitious of the dignity of dowagership, have sedulously

cultivate this one idea till it have assume the character of

a monomania, under the influence of which this unhappy scion of

aristocracy look upon life as a state of perpetual warfare against the

whole race of woman, and be haunt by a frightful vision of himself

carry off and forcibly married to the chief of a horde of female

pirate, with long tongue, long nail, and an utter absence of

creditable ancestry. his outward duke (if we may be allow the

expression) be decidedly prepossess. he be tall and not ungraceful

in figure, and have a bright, round, innocent face, as of a good child.

his hair be nicely brush and part; whisker he have none; indeed,

the stinginess of nature to he in this particular be so remarkable,

that, as the eld Miss Simpkins afterwards observe to an eager

audience of uninvited young sister, “so far from whisker, my dear,

now I come to think of it, his grace have _rather the reverse!_” however,

take he “for all in all,” he be a very creditable young duke, and a

perfect godsend on the occasion in question. then there be a descending

scale from his Grace downward, lead through the aristocracy of birth

to the aristocracy of rich, till it reach the _élite_ of the country

town, and the more presentable specimen of yeomen farmer. but let

we join a group of people that we know, and hear what they think of the

guest who be so rapidly assemble.



in a snug corner of the reception-room, not far from a door lead into

the large drawing-room, stand one of those mysterious innovation of

modern upholstery, a species of the genus ottoman, which resemble a

Brobdignagian mushroom, with a thimble make to match stick in the middle

of it. seat at her ease upon this nondescript, half-bury by the

yield cushion, appear the pretty figure of Laura Peyton; by

her side, attire in much white muslin, crinoline to a balloon-like

rotundity, but which apparently have shrink abominably at the wash in the

region round about its wearer’s neck and shoulder, sit another--well,

from the juvenility of her dress and manner we suppose we must say

_young_ lady, though it be a historical fact that she have be at

school with Annie Grant’s mother; but then poor Mrs. Grant marry when

she be quite a child, and die before she be thirty, and of course

Miss Singleton must know her own age well, and she have declare herself

eight-and-twenty for the last five year. this lady possess one

peculiarity--she always have a passion for somebody; whether the _object_

be of the gentler or the sterner sex be all a matter of chance; but

as she be in the habit of observe, “there exist in her nature a

necessity for passionately loving.” and it have become proverbial that

necessity have no law. the object of her adoration just at present be

“that darling girl,” Laura Peyton; and really that young lady be in

herself so lovable, that to endeavour to account for Miss Singleton’s

devotion by insinuate that the heiress be usually surround by

all the most desirable young man in the room would be the height of

ill-nature.



“dear I!” exclaim Miss Singleton, whose troublesome nature have

another necessity for like to hear its own voice as often as possible.

“dear I! I wish I know who all the people be! dearest Miss Peyton,

do not you sympathise? ah, that tell-tale smile! we girl certainly be

sadly curious, though I believe the man be just as bad, only they’re

too proud to own it. but really, we must contrive to catch somebody who

will tell we who everybody be. there’s that handsome, grave, clever

Mr. Arundel: I shall make he a sign to come here--ah! he see I

directly--he _be_ so clever. Mr. Arundel, do tell I, who _be_ all

these people?”



“rather a comprehensive question,” return Lewis, smile; “moreover,

you could scarcely have apply to any one less able to answer it, for

beyond our immediate neighbour I really do not know a dozen people in

the room.”



“Mr. Arundel’s acquaintance lie rather among illustrious foreigner,”

 observe Miss Peyton demurely. “be any member of the royal family of

Persia present, for instance, his intimate knowledge of the language,

manner, and habit of that interesting nation would be invaluable to

we.”



“as you be strong, be merciful,” return Lewis, in a tone of voice

only to be hear by the young lady to whom he speak.



“dear I! how very delightful! what a thing it be to be so clever!”

 exclaim Miss Singleton, arrange her bracelet and round her arm

(which be now one of her good point) with an action that express,

as plainly as word could have do, “there, look at that--there’s

grace for you!”



“here come some one who can tell we everything,” she continue; “that

good-natured, fascinating Mr. Leicester, with his love of whisker all

in dear little curl. tiresome man! he willn’t look this way. would you be

so very good, Mr. Arundel, as to follow he and bring he here? say that

Miss Peyton and I want he particularly.”



“I beg you’ll say nothing of the kind, Mr. Arundel,” interpose Laura

quickly, with a very become blush. “really, Miss Singleton, you run on

so that----”



“I will deliver your message verbatim, Miss Singleton,” return Lewis

with the same demure tone and manner in which Miss Peyton have refer

to the persian prince; and without wait to mark the effect of his

word, he mingle with the crowd, and almost immediately return

with the gentleman in pursuit of whom he have be despatch. Charles

Leicester, who be most elaborately get up for the occasion, though his

good taste prevent he from run into any absurd extreme in dress,

look remarkably handsome, and be flatter by the summon he

have just receive, particularly happy. both these fact Miss Peyton

discover at a glance, but whether urge by some secret consciousness,

or annoy by an indescribable look of intelligence which lurk in the

corner of Lewis’s dark eye and reveal itself through the sternness

of his compress lip, she receive he with marked coldness, and

observe, in reply to his offer to play showman to the collection of

strange animal there assemble, that she have no taste for zoology, and

that it be Miss Singleton’s curiosity he have be summon to satisfy.



“yes, indeed, Mr. Leicester,” exclaim that mature damsel, in no way

daunt by a shade of discontent which, despite his endeavour to

the contrary, overspread the countenance of the gentleman she be

address; “yes, indeed, I’m die to know all sort of thing. in

the first place, who’s that tall, stout gentleman in the wonderful

waistcoat?”



“that,” reply Leicester, coolly examine the person indicate, “that

be--no, it ben’t! yes, surely!--I think I be right--that be the

Marquis of Carabbas.” then see from her manner she do not recognise

the name, he continue, “he have enormous estate situate in----”



“where?” ask Miss Singleton earnestly, think she have lose the name.



“that interesting tract of country clepe, by John Parry, the Realms of

Infantine Romance,” continue Leicester.



“oh, Mr. Leicester, you’re laugh at I. how wicked of you--the

Marquis of Carabbas! let I see: haven’t he something to do with

Whittington and his Cat?”



“with the cat, possibly,” reply Leicester; “for if my memory fail not,

the fortune of the noble Marquis, like those of the ever-to-be-lament

Lord Mayor of London town, be the result of feline sagacity, and it’s

not likely there exist two such talented cat--even Puss in Boots may

only be another episode in the career of the same gifted individual.”



“another of its nine life, in fact,” suggest Lewis.



“yes, of course,” rejoin Leicester. “I dare say it be the original

‘cat of nine tale,’ only, like the sibylline leave, several of the

manuscript have be lose to posterity through the carelessness of some

elfin Master of the Rolls.”



“I beg your pardon, but I really must interrupt you,” exclaim Miss

Singleton. “can you tell I, soberly and seriously, who that very

strange-look person may be who have just seize the General’s hand and

nearly shake his arm out of the socket?”



see that Laura Peyton’s eye ask the same question, though her

lip be silent, Leicester glance in the direction indicate, and

immediately reply, “that energetic female rejoice in the name of

Lady Mary--but be more commonly know among her intimate as

_Jack_--Goodwood. in person she be what you behold she; in character,

she present a most unmitigated speciman of the _genus_ Amazon; for the

rest, she be a very good woman at heart, but my especial torment; she

always call I Charley, and her usual salutation be a slap on the back.

she hunt, shoot, break in her own horse, have ride a hurdle race,

in which she come in a good second, and be report to have dragoon

her husband into pop the question by the threat of a sound

horse-whipping. and now, Miss Singleton, you’ll have an opportunity of

judge for yourself, for she have catch sight of I, and be bear

down upon we in full sail.”



“well, but be she really a lady?” inquire the astonish Miss

Singleton, who, in her philosophy, have most assuredly never dream of

such a possibility as Jack Goodwood.



“she be second daughter of Lord Oaks,” be the reply, “and Goodwood be

one of _the_ goodwood, and be worth some £8000 a year; but here she

be.”



as he speak the lady in question join the group. her age might be

eight or nine-and-thirty; she be tall and decidedly handsome, though

her feature be too large; she have magnificent black eye and very

white tooth, which prevent the width of her mouth from interfere

with her pretension to beauty; her complexion be brilliant in the

extreme, nature having bestow on she a clear brown skin, which

withstand the combined effect of exposure to sun and wind, and soften

the high colour induce by the boisterous character of her ladyship’s

favourite pursuit. but if her personal gift be strike, the style

or costume she see fit to adopt render she still more remarkable. as

it will be necessary to describe her dress minutely in order to convey

any idea of her appearance, we throw ourselves on the mercy of our lady

reader, and beg they to pardon all error of description, see that

mantua-making be a science in which we have never graduate, and of

which our knowledge be derive solely from oral tradition pick up

during desultory conversation among our female friend, usually hold

(if our memory fail we not) on their way home from church.



her dress consist, then, of a gown of exceedingly rich white silk,

make half-high in the body and remarkably full in the skirt, over which

she wear a polka of bright scarlet Cashmere line and trim with white

silk, and adorn with a double row of the hunt button. her head be

attire in a spanish hat of black velvet, while a single white feather,

secure by a valuable diamond clasp, be allow to droop over the

brim and mingle with the rich masse of her raven hair, which be

picturesquely arrange in a complication of braid and ringlet. she

lean on the arm of a gentleman double her age, whose good-humour

heavy face afford a marked contrast to the ever-vary expression

that light the animate feature of she who be, in every sense of the

word, his well half. Leicester’s description have but slightly enhance

the vigour of her mode of salutation, for as she reach the spot where

he stand she clap he on the shoulder with a small, white-gloved

hand, exclaim in a deep but not unmusical voice--



“Bravo, Charley! run you to earth at last, you see. where have you

hide yourself all this age? now, Goody,” she continue, turn to her

husband, “you may go. Charley Leicester will take care of I--don’t lose

your temper at whist, don’t drink too much champagne, and mind you’re

forthcoming when I want you.”



“there’s a life to lead,” return her spouse, appeal to Leicester.

“do you ever see such a tyrant?”



“be off, Goody, and don’t talk nonsense,” be his lady-wife’s rejoinder.



[illustration: 0178]



“how be it we never see you at the Manor-House now?” begin the master of

that establishment in a hospitable tone of voice, but his lady cut he

short in his speech by exclaiming--



“why? because he find you such a bore he could not stand you any

long; nobody can except I, and even my power of endurance be

limited, so,” she continue, take he by the shoulder and turn he

round, “right about face--head up--march. _Voilà_,” she add, turn

to Leicester, “he’s famously under command, ben’t he, Charley? all my

good breaking in--he be as obstinate as a mule before I marry he,

nobody could do anything with he. he’s in splendid condition, too, for

a man of sixty. I’ll back he to walk, ride, hunt, shoot, or play at

billiard with any man of his age and weight in the three kingdom. I’ve

be oblige to dock his corn, though; there be seldom a day that he

don’t finish his second bottle of port. he only drink one now. but I

say, Charley, about this election of Governor Grant’s, how be he go

the pace? you must tell I all about it; I’ve be in Paris for the last

two month, and I’m quite in the dark.”



“’pon my word, I take so little interest in the matter that I can

scarcely enlighten you, Lady Mary,” return Leicester, glance

uneasily at Miss Peyton, who be talk with much apparent

_empressement_ to Miss Singleton, though her quick ear drink in every

word speak by the other.



“who’s that girl?” resume Lady Mary, lower her voice a little

(_very_ little) as she perceive the direction of Leicester’s glance.

“Miss Peyton, eh?” she continue, “you shall introduce I; but first

tell I who’s that man by her side, like an old picture.”



“Mr. Arundel,” be the reply; “tutor to poor young Desborough.”



“he’s too good for the work,” return Jack; “he’s too near thoroughbred

to take to collar and keep his trace tight with such an uphill pull as

that must be. I say, Charley,” she continue in a half whisper, “he’s

handsomer than you be. if you don’t mind your play, he’ll bowl you out

and win with the favourite--there, it’s no use get up the steam or

look sulky with I,” she add, as Leicester utter an exclamation

of annoyance. “I can see it all with half an eye; you’re as thoroughly

what Goody call ‘spoony’ as a man need to be; but now, Charley, don’t

go put your foot in it, you know: be it all right with the tin?

that’s the main question.”



“ask I to dance, for pity’s sake, and let I get out of that creature’s

way,” murmur Laura Peyton to Lewis; “I never have a taste for see

monster.”



Lewis smile and offer she his arm. at the same moment De Grandcville,

gaudily ornate, march up and request the honour of Miss Peyton’s

hand for the set then form.



“I be engage to Mr. Arundel for the next quadrille,” return Miss

Peyton.



“for the follow one, then--ar?”



“I shall have much pleasure,” be the reply. “in the meantime allow I

to introduce you to my friend Miss Singleton, who be at present without

a partner.”



De Grandeville, charm to have the opportunity of oblige Miss Peyton,

act on the hint, and the two couple hasten to take their place

in the quadrille then form. Leicester’s volatile companion still

continued chatter, heedless of his evident annoyance, until she have

worry he into a state of mind border on distraction, when some

fresh fancy seize she, she fasten herself on to a new victim and

leave he to his meditation. these be by no mean of an agreeable

character; and after wander listlessly through the suite of room and

watch Laura Peyton, as during the interval of the dance she talk

and laugh gaily with De Grandeville (an occupation which do not tend

greatly to raise Leicester’s spirit or soothe his ruffled temper),

he stroll into a card-room tenant only by four elderly gentleman

immerse in a rubber of whist, and fling himself on a vacant sofa

in a remote corner of the apartment, give himself up to gloomy

retrospection.



he have not remain there long when Lewis enter and glance round as

if in search of some one; then approach Leicester, he began--



“you’ve not see Walter lately, have you? your amusing friend, Lady

Mary Goodwood” (“confound the jade,” mutter Leicester, _sotto voce_)

“introduce herself to I just now, and having captivate Walter by

her bright smile and scarlet jacket, carry he off, to tease I,

I believe, and I cann’t tell what she have do with he. but,” he

continue, for the first time observe his companion’s dejected manner

and appearance, “be anything the matter; you’re not ill, I hope?”



“I wish I be,” be the unexpected reply; “ill--dead--anything rather

than the miserable fool I am----”



“why, what have occur?” ask Lewis anxiously. “can I be of any use?”



“no, it’s past mending,” return Leicester in an accent of deep

dejection. he pause, then turn to Lewis he resume almost fiercely:

“the tale be soon tell, if you want to hear it. I meet that girl--Laura

Peyton, I mean--in town about a year ago; in fact--for my affair be

no secret--every fool know that I be a beggar, or thereabout. I be

introduce to she because she be a great heiress, and dangle after

she through the whole of a London season for the sake of her three

per cent. well, last autumn I meet she again down in Scotland; we be

stay together for three week in the same house. of course we see a

good deal of each other, and I soon find I like she well for herself

than I have ever do for her money; but somehow, as soon as this feeling

arose, I lose all nerve, and could not get on a bit. the idea of the

meanness of marry a woman for the sake of her fortune haunt I day

and night, and the more I care for she the less be I able to show

it. my cousin Annie perceive what be go on, it seem, and without

say a word to I of her intention, strike up a friendship with Laura,

and invite she here; and somehow--the thing’s very absurd in a man like

myself, who have see everything and do everything, and find out

what humbug it all be--but the fact of the matter be, that I’m just as

foolishly and romantically and deeply in love with that girl as any

raw boy of seventeen could be; and I don’t believe she care one _sous_

about I in return. she think, as she have a good right to do, that I be

hunt she for her money, like the rest of they, I dare say; and--stop

a minute,” he continue, see Lewis be about to speak--“you have

not hear the bad yet: because all I’ve tell you be not enough,

that conceite ass, De Grandeville, must need come and consult I this

morning as to whether Miss Peyton be worthy of be honour with his

hand, hint pretty plainly that he do not anticipate much difficulty

on the lady’s part; and by Jove, from the way in which she be go on

with he this evening, I believe that for once he ben’t lie: then

that mad-head Mary Goodwood come and bother with she confound

‘Charley’ this and ‘Charley’ that, and her absurd plan of monopolise

one--of course she mean no harm; she have know I from a boy, and it’s

her way; besides, she really be attach to old Goodwood. but how be

Laura Peyton to know all that?”



“why, rouse up, and go and tell she yourself, to be sure,” reply

Lewis.



“no, not I!” return Leicester moodily. “I’ll have no more trouble

about it. I’ll leave this house to-morrow morning, and be off to Baden,

or Naples, or timbuctoo, or some place where there be no woman, if

such a Paradise exist--and she may marry De Grandeville, or whom she

please, for I. you see, it would be different if she care at all for

I, but to worry one’s heart out about a girl who do not even like

one----”



“_Halte là!_” interrupt Lewis; “looker-on see most of the game; and

if I know anything of woman’s nature”--he pause and bite his lip as the

recollection of Gretchen cross his mind--“depend upon it, Miss Peyton

be not as indifferent to you as you imagine.”



“do you see how coldly she receive I to-night?” urge Leicester.



“yes; and her so do only confirm my previous opinion. that

chatter Miss Singleton have annoy she by bid I summon you

in Miss Peyton’s name; but the very fact of her annoyance show

consciousness; have she be indifferent to you she would not have care.

then her irritation at Lady Mary’s familiarity prove the same thing.”



“you really think so?” return Leicester, brighten up. “my dear

fellow, you’ve quite put new life into I. it’s very odd now, I never

see it in that light before. what would you have I do, then?”



“if, as you say, you really and truly love she,” return Lewis gravely,

“lie aside--excuse my plain speaking--lie aside your fashionable air,

which disguise your true nature, and tell she of your affection in a

simple, manly way, and if she be the girl I take she to be, your trouble

will not be waste.” so say, he rise and quit the room, leave

Leicester to reflect on his advice.









chapter XXV.--CONTAINS a MYSTERIOUS INCIDENT, and show how the course

of true love never do RUN SMOOTH.



as Lewis, after the conversation detail in the last chapter, be

prosecute his search for Walter through the various apartment he

encounter Annie Grant, who, having escape the vigilance of Miss

Livingstone, be enjoy, in company with a young lady friend, the

dangerous luxury of stand by an open window. the moment she perceive

Lewis she advance towards he and began--



“may I detain you one moment, Mr. Arundel? can you tell I anything of

my cousin Charles? I’m afraid he must be ill, and I wish he to exert

himself so particularly to-night.”



“he be not ill,” return Lewis. “I leave he not two minute since in

the card-room.”



“in the card-room?” repeat Annie in a tone of annoyance; “what can he

be do there? be he play whist?”



“no,” be the reply; “he do not appear in a humour to enjoy the

dancing, and have go there for the sake of quiet.”



“a fit of his incorrigible idleness, I suppose,” remark Annie

pettishly; “really it be too provoking; it must seem so odd his

absent himself on such an occasion as this. would you mind

the trouble of return and tell he I want to speak to he

particularly, and that he will find I here?”



“I shall be most happy; it be no trouble,” begin Lewis. he pause,

and then add in a low tone, “perhaps you scarcely do Mr. Leicester

justice in attribute his absence to a fit of indolence; I fancy,

from his manner, something have occur to annoy he.”



“something to annoy he!” exclaim Annie, start and turn pale

as a disagreeable possibility suddenly occur to she. “surely he have

not?--she never can have----!” then see Lewis’s glance fix on she

with a look of peculiar intelligence, she pause abruptly, and a most

become blush overspread her feature. Lewis pity her confusion, and

hasten to relieve it by observing--



“if I have venture to guess the direction of your thought somewhat too

boldly, Miss Grant, you must pardon I, and believe that do I not think

I might thereby in some slight degree repay the kindness Mr. Leicester

have invariably show I, I would not have allow you to perceive it.

if,” he add in a low tone, “you will permit I to advise you, I

believe you could most effectually serve your cousin’s interest by

explain to Miss Peyton, at your first opportunity, the nature of the

friendship which exist between Lady Mary Goodwood and Mr. Leicester,

mention at the same time the fact that they have know each other

from childhood.”



“that’s the difficulty, be it?” rejoin Annie. “oh! I can set that

right in five minute. thank you very much, Mr. Arundel--how extremely

kind you be; but,” she add with an arch look, “you be most

alarmingly clever; I shall become quite afraid of you.” then turn to

her companion, she add, “now, Lucy dear, you will catch your death of

cold standing at that window. you will send Charles Leicester, then, Mr.

Arundel.” so say, she link her arm in that of her friend, and the

two girl leave the room.



“Leicester’s a lucky dog to have such a zealous advocate in that sweet

cousin of his,” think Lewis as he retrace his step towards

the card-room. “she be a great deal too good for that brute, Lord

Bellefield; she have well have choose Charles, if she must marry either

brother, though he be scarcely she equal in mind or depth of character,

and without that I don’t believe married life can ever progress as it

should do.” on reach the card-room he find it only tenant by the

whist player; and rightly imagine that his advice have so far restore

Leicester’s spirit as to induce he again to return to the ball-room,

he resume his search for Walter, and at length discover he in the

ice-room, where, under the auspex of a pretty, interesting look

girl, the daughter of one of the tenantry, call in on the occasion

to assist the female servant, he be regale himself with unlimited

cake.



while Lewis be gently insinuate the possibility of his having have

enough, two or three man, amongst whom be Lord Bellefield, lounge into

the room and begin eat ice at a table opposite that at which Lewis

and Walter be station. one of the party, who be unacquainted with

Lewis, apparently strike by his appearance, address Lord Bellefield

in an undertone, evidently inquire who the young tutor might be; the

answer, though speak in a low voice, be (whether designedly or not we

will not say) perfectly audible to the person to whom it relate.



“that? oh, some poor devil old Grant have pick up cheap as dry-nurse to

his pet idiot; a kind of male _bonne_, as the french term it; a sort of

upper servant, half valet, half tutor. you need not notice he.”



there be a degree of littleness in this speech which completely rob

it of its sting. it be such a mean attempt at an insult that Lewis see

it would be let himself down even to feel angry about it; and merely

allow his lip to curl slightly with a contemptuous smile, he fold

his arm and patiently await the conclusion of Walter’s repast. after

Lord Bellefield and his friend have devour as many ice as seem good

to they, they prepare to leave the room, and just as they pass

the spot where Lewis stand, Lord Bellefield, in draw out his

handkerchief, accidentally drop a glove. not perceive his loss, he

be still walk on, when Lewis, after a moment’s hesitation, resolve

to adhere to his determination of treat Lord Bellefield as he would

any other man his superior in rank, and perhaps inwardly rejoice at the

opportunity of return good for evil, or at least civility for insult,

stoop and pick up the glove, then advance a step or two, he

present it to its owner, saying--



“excuse my interrupt your lordship, but you have drop your glove.”



now it so happen that the moment before Lewis have remove his own

glove to render some assistance to Walter, and have not replace it when

he extend his hand to Lord Bellefield, who, without make any reply,

sign to his french valet, then assist in the champagne department,

and when he approach, said--



“_Tenez, Antoine!_ take the glove from this gentleman, and bring I a

clean pair.”



the insolence of his look and the affected drawl in which he spoke

render his meaning so unmistakable, that, after a slight attempt to

repress the inclination, one of his companion burst into a laugh, while

the other, who have sufficient good feeling to be disgust at such an

unprovoked insult, turn on his heel and walk away. Lewis stand for a

moment as if stun; then, flush crimson, he actually quiver with

suppress anger; still it be evident that he be strive to master

his passion, and apparently he be in great measure successful, for when

he speak it be in a low, calm voice.



“be I to understand,” he say, “that your lordship, consider this

glove pollute by the accident of my having touch it, will never wear

it again?”



“ya--as,” be the reply; “you may very safely come to that conclusion

without any fear of misinterpret my intention.”



“in that case,” continue Lewis, in the same low, clear voice, though

his eye, which be fix on Lord Bellefield’s, actually glow with

the intensity of his emotion, “I will crave your permission to retain it

as a memorial of this evening. your lordship will observe it be a

_right hand_ glove. I may, on some future occasion, have the pleasure

of call your attention to the care with which I have preserve the

relic.”



so say, he bow coldly, and still hold the glove with a vice-like

grasp, as though he fear to have it wrest from he, he turn away

without wait a reply.



“what on earth do the fellow want with that glove?” inquire Lord

Bellefield’s companion, who, not be a particularly intellectual young

gentleman, have be greatly mystify by the whole proceeding. “and what

in the world be the matter with you?” he add, observe for the first

time that his friend be look strangely pale and shudder slightly.



“eh--come along--we’re stand in a confounded draught, and I’ve never

rightly recover that ague I pick up at Ancona,” be the reply; and

take his companion’s arm, Lord Bellefield hastily leave the room.



so engross have Lewis be with his own share of the transaction that

he have not observe the breathless interest with which the whole scene

have be watch by the girl before allude to. she now approach he

under the excuse of offer some cake, and, as he somewhat impatiently

refuse they, say in a hurried whisper--



“I beg your pardon, sir, but what be it you intend to do with that

glove?”



surprise alike at the question and the quarter from whence it

proceed, Lewis look at the girl more attentively than he have yet

do. she be above the middle height, and of a singularly graceful

figure; her feature be characterise by a degree of refinement and

intelligence not usually to be find amongst person of her class; she

be very pale, and though she endeavour to repress all outward sign

of emotion, he could perceive she be fearfully agitated.



“do with the glove!” return Lewis. “what make you ask such an odd

question?”



“you cannot deceive I, sir,” she reply in the same eager whisper. “I

witness all that pass between you and--that gentleman just now.”



“and what be it you fear?” ask Lewis.



“that you be go to challenge he to fight a duel to-morrow

morning--and--and perhaps mean to wear that glove on the hand you shoot

he with.”



as she utter these last word a strange expression flit across

Lewis’s face; it have pass, however, ere he replied--



“you be mistaken. as long as I remain under this roof I shall avoid any

collision with that gentleman. Nay, more; should he repeat his insult

(though I scarcely think he will), I shall not attempt to resent it.

so,” he continue with a smile, “as I be live here, I think he be

tolerably safe from I. stay,” he add, as, after glance anxiously at

his feature, as though she strove to read his very soul, she be about

to turn away, satisfied that he be not attempt to deceive she,

“stay; do not mention what you have observe amongst the servant; and

here be something to buy you some new ribbon for your cap.”



“I will not accept your money, sir,” she reply somewhat haughtily;

“but your secret be safe with I as in the grave.” then take Walter’s

plate, which be by this time empty, she cross the room and mingle

with the other servant.



it be later in the evening; much dancing have be accomplish, many

civil speech and some rude one make, mild flirtation begin to assume

a serious character, and one or two aggravate case appear likely to

end in business. the heart of match-make mamma beat high with

hope, marriageable daughter be look up, and eligible young man,

apparently bent on become tremendous sacrifice, be evidently to

be have cheap. the real live Duke be in unusually high spirit; he have

hitherto be mercifully preserve from dangerous young lady, and have

pass a very pleasant evening. Lady Mary Goodwood, who be equal to a

duke or any other emergency, have be introduce to he, and have take

upon herself the task of entertain he; and his grace, be slightly

acquaint with Mr. Goodwood, and fortify by an unshakable faith in

that gentleman’s power of longevity, have yield himself unresistingly

to the fascination of the fair Amazon, and allow himself to be amuse

with the most amiable condescension. Charles Leicester, in some degree

reassure by his conversation with Lewis, return to the dancing-room

and secure Miss Peyton for a waltz; but his success do not tend

greatly to improve his position, as the young lady continue strangely

silent, or only open her mouth to say cut thing. the last polka

before supper she dance with De Grandeville; on that gentleman’s arm

she enter the room in which the repast be lay out, and he it be

who, seat by her side during the meal, forestall she every wish with

most lover-like devotion. Lord Belle-field, after the _rencontre_ with

Lewis, have console himself by take possession of Annie, whose side

he never quit for a moment, and who he thereby prevent from hold

any private communication with her friend Miss Peyton, her acquaintance

with the domestic economy of her uncle’s family lead she to divine

that his brother would be about the last person to whom Charles

Leicester would wish his hope and fear confide.



see that thing thus continue steadily to “improve for the bad,”

 and that the tide which Shakespeare discover in the affair of man

appear to have set dead against he, the unfortunate “Charley” have,

in a spirit of self-mortification, repudiate supper and reject offer

of champagne with the virulence of a red-hot teetotaller, betook himself

to the solitude of the music-room in a state of mind border on

distraction, which fever of the soul Lady Mary Goodwood have not tend

to allay, by remark, with a significant glance towards Miss Peyton

and De Grandeville--



“I say, Charley, cast your eye up the course a minute; the heavyweight’s

make play with the favourite at a killing pace. I’d bet long odd he

pop and she say ‘do’ before the meeting’s over; so if that don’t

suit your book, Charley, my boy, the soon you hedge on the double

event the well.”



the music-room at Broadhurst be a spacious apartment, with a coved

ceiling and deep bay windows hang with rich crimson damask curtain,

and contain othman of the same material in the recess. on one of

these Leicester fling himself, and half hide by the voluminous fold

of the drapery, sketch out a gloomy future, in which he depict

himself quarrel with De Grandeville, shoot he in a consequent

duel, and reside ever after in the least desirable part of the

backwood of America, a prey to remorse, without cigar, and cut off

from kid glove and pale ale in the flower of his youth. occupy with

these dreary thought, he scarcely notice the entrance of various

seceder from the supper-table; nor be it until the sound of the

pianoforte arouse his attention that he perceive the room to be

tenant by some twenty or thirty people scatter in small coterie

throughout the apartment. at the moment when he become alive to external

impression Miss Singleton be about to favour the company with a song,

having secure a mild young man to turn over the music, who know

not life and believe in she to the full extent with a touching

simplicity. before this interesting performance could commence, however,

sundry preliminary arrangement analogous to the nautical ceremony of

“clear for action” appear indispensable. first, a necessity exist

for take off her glove, which be not accomplish without much

rounding of arm, display of ring, and rattle of bracelet, one of

which, in particular, would catch in everything, and be so incorrigible

that it be force to be unclasp in disgrace and commit to the

custody of the mild young man, who blush at it and hold it as if it

be alive. then Miss Singleton draw up her head, elongate her neck to

a giraffe-like extent, raise her eye, simper, cast they down again,

glance out of their corner at the “mild one” till he tremble in his

polished boot and jingle the wicked bracelet like a baby’s rattle

in the excess of his agitation, and finally commence her song by an

energetic appeal to her mother (who have be dead and bury for the

last fifteen year) to “wake she early” on the ensue first of May.

just as she be assure the company that “she have be wild and

wayward, but she be not wayward now,” a couple enter the room, and

apparently wish not to disturb the melody, seat themselves on a

sofa in a retire corner which chance to be nearly opposite to the

recess of which Leicester have take possession; thus, although the whole

length of the music-room intervene, he could (himself unseen) catch

occasional glimpse of this sofa as the ever-change group of lounger

form and disperse themselves.



the occupant of the seat be Miss Peyton and De Grandeville; and could

Charles Leicester have overhear the follow conversation the passive

annoyance with which he observe the colloquy might have give place to

a more active sentiment.



“Ar--really,” remark De Grandeville, “that be a very--ar--touching,

pathetic song----”



“murder,” observe Miss Peyton, quietly finish his sentence for

he.



“Ar--eh--yes, of course, I be go to--ar--that be, your exquisite

taste have--ar--in fact--ar--beyond a doubt the woman be commit

murder.”



“Recollect, the ‘woman,’ as you be pleased to call she, be my

particular friend, Mr. De Grandeville,” return his companion with a

slight degree of hauteur in her tone.



“Ar--yes, of course, that speak volume in her favour,” be the

rejoinder; “and although it be not every one who be gift with

the--ar--talent of vocalisation, yet the estimable quality which

one seek in the--ar--endear relation of friendship may be

find--ar--that be, may exist--ar----”



“what do you think of the champagne at supper?” interrupt Miss Peyton

abruptly.



“really--ar--’pon my word I do not particularly notice it!

be--ar--so agreeably situate that I could not devote much attention to

the--ar--commissariat department.”



“surely it be unusually strong,” persist Laura.



“Ar--yes, of course you be right, it be no doubt owe to its agreeably

exhilarate quality that it be so universally popular with the fair

sex. be I--ar--so fortunate as to be--ar--a married man, I should

always have champagne at my table.”



“what a temptation!” return Miss Peyton, smile ironically. “your

wife will be an enviable woman, if you mean to indulge she in such

luxury.”



“it delight I to hear you say so,” exclaim De Grandeville eagerly.

“if such be your opinion, I be indeed a fortunate man. I have not

intend,” he continue in a low tone, “to speak to you at this early

period of our acquaintance on the subject near to my heart, but

the--ar--very flattering encouragement----”



“Sir!” exclaim Miss Peyton in a tone of indignant surprise.



“which you have deign to bestow upon I,” continue De Grandeville,

not heed the interruption, “lead I to unfold my intention without

further delay. I be now arrive at an age when, in the prime of life,

and with judgment so mature that I consider I may safely act in

obedience to its dictate without the risk of make any great mistake,

it appear to I, and to those of my highly bear and influential friend

whom I have consult on the subject, that I might greatly improve my

general position in society by a judicious matrimonial alliance.

now, without be in the slight degree actuate by--ar--anything

approach to a spirit of boasting, I may venture to say that in the

selection of a partner for life I have a right to look--ar--high. my

family may be trace back beyond the Norman conquest, and the immense

estate in our possession--ar--my cousin Hildebrand hold they

at present--but in the event of anything happen to his

seven--ar--however, I need not now trouble you with such family detail,

suffice it to say that we be of ancient descent, enormous land

proprietor, and that my own position in society be by no mean

an unimportant one. now, although I be aware that by birth you be

scarcely--ar--that be--that the Peyton family cannot trace back their

origin--ar--I have make up my mind to waive that point in consideration

of----”



“excuse I, sir,” interrupt Miss Peyton. “doubtless your mature

judgment have lead you to discover many, in fact so? _some thousand_ of

good and weighty reason why you should overlook the humble origin of

the poor peyton; but there be one point which appear to have escape

even your sagacity, namely, whether this unworthy descendant of an

ignoble family desire the honour of such an alliance as you propose.

that you may no long be in doubt on the subject, allow I to thank

you for the sacrifice you propose to make in my favour, and most

unequivocally to decline it.”



no one could be in De Grandeville’s company for ten minute without

perceive that on the one subject of his own importance he be more or

less mad; but with this exception he be a clear-head, quick-sight

man, use to society and accustom to deal with the world. Laura

Peyton, in her indignation at the inflated style of the preamble of his

discourse, have commit the indiscretion of refuse his hand before

he have distinctly offer it. De Grande-ville perceive the mistake, and

hasten to avail himself of it by replying--



“excuse I, Miss Peyton, but you jump rather hastily to conclusion. have

you hear I to the end you might have learn that there be equally

strong reason why in my present position I dare not yield to the

impulse of my feeling--for that I greatly admire and respect you

I frankly own. should these reason disappear under a change of

circumstance, I shall hope to have the honour of again address

you on this subject with a more favourable result. in the meantime,

to assure you that I entertain no unfriendly recollection of this

interview, permit I the honour----”



so say, ere she be aware of his intention, he raise her hand to

his lip, bow respectfully, and rise, quit the apartment. Miss

Peyton, equally surprised and provoke at the turn De Grande-ville have

give to the conversation, remain for a minute or so ponder the

matter, with her eye fix on the ground; as she raise they they

encounter those of a gentleman who be pass down the room at the

time. Charles Leicester (for he it be) return her gaze haughtily,

and as their eye meet a contemptuous smile curl his lip, and bow

coldly, he pass on without a word. well might he despise she, for he

have witness the parting salute, and not unnaturally deem she the

affiance bride of Marmaduke De Grandeville. Ere he retire for the

night his servant have receive order to pack up his clothe and to

procure post-horse by eight o’clock on the following morning. Annie

Grant, who, when the late guest have depart, seek her friend

Laura’s dressing-room to explain to she the old friendship which have

exist between her cousin Charles and Lady Mary Goodwood be equally

surprised and distressed to find her communication receive with a

hysterical burst of tear.









chapter XXVI.--SUNSHINE after SHOWERS.



Annie Grant find her friend strangely uncommunicative on the subject

of her fit of weeping; she declare that it be nothing--that she feel

nervous and overtired, but that a good night’s rest be all she require

to set she to right again; then kiss she affectionately, Laura,

with much caressing, turn she out of the room. as sound sleep be the

specific to which Miss Peyton trust for the restoration of her health

and spirit, it can scarcely be imagine that, after pass four

restless hour in a vain attempt to obtain the desire boon, she should

have feel particularly refresh. weary both in mind and body, she

be arouse from a dreamy, half-sleep, half-wake, but wholly

uncomfortable state into which she have fall by the sun shine

brightly into her room. the beauty of the morning, though a thick hoar

frost lie upon the ground, banish all further desire for sleep, and

commence her toilet, she resolve on a scheme which her

acquaintance with the usual habit of the family lead she to conceive

feasible--namely, to possess herself of the third volume of a new novel

in which she be considerably interested, and with that for a companion,

to take a brisk walk in the clear morning air and return ere any of

the party have make their appearance at the breakfast-table. dress

hastily, she wrap herself in a thick shawl and trip lightly down

the staircase, only encounter in her progress a drowsy housemaid, who

stare at she with lack-lustre eye, as though she take she for a ghost.

before she could carry her whole plan into execution, however, it be

necessary that she should visit the library in order to procure the

volume she wish to take with she. open the door quickly, she

have proceed half-way across the room ere she perceive it be not

untenanted. as she pause, uncertain whether or not to proceed, Charles

Leicester--for he it be who, act on his resolution of the previous

night, be write a few line to account for his abrupt departure--rise

from the table at which he have be sit and advanced towards she.

he be attire for a journey, and his pale feature and the dark circle

under his eye give token of a sleepless night. there be a restless

energy in his tone and manner, as he address she, totally oppose to

his usual listless indifference; and no one could be in his company a

moment without perceive that (to use a common but forcible expression)

something have come over he--that he be (at all event, for the

present) a change man.



“you be an early riser, Miss Peyton,” he say. “I do not expect to

have an opportunity of wish you good-bye in person.”



“I be not aware you intend leave Broadhurst so soon,” return

Laura, feel, she scarcely know why, exceedingly uncomfortable. “shall

you return before the party break up?”



“no. I shall go abroad directly, and endeavour to procure an attachéship

to one of the embassy; the turkish, I think: I’ve never see

Constantinople.”



“surely you’ve form this resolution somewhat abruptly,” observe Miss

Peyton. “it be only yesterday you agree to escort your cousin Annie

and myself to ride over and sketch the ruin of Monkton Priory. I be

think this morning, as soon as I see the sunshine, what a charming

canter we should have.”



“I should be more sorry, Miss Peyton, to be force to break so agreeable

an engagement, do I not feel certain _you_ will have no difficulty in

supply my place on the occasion,” return Leicester, lay a

mark emphasis on the pronoun. “I must now wish you good morning,” he

continue; then bow coldly, he take up his hat and turn to leave

the room.



Miss Peyton allow he to reach the door ere she could make up her mind

what course to pursue; then colour brightly, she exclaim, “stay one

moment, Mr. Leicester.” as he pause, and close the door, which he have

partially open, turn towards she, she continue, “I will not affect

to misunderstand your allusion, and although the subject be one on which

I should not willingly have enter, I consider it due to myself not to

suffer you to depart under a mistake, into which I should have think

you know I too well to have fall.”



“Mistake!” repeat Leicester eagerly. “be it possible that I can be

mistaken? be you not then engage to Mr. De Grandeville?”



“Most assuredly be I not,” return Miss Peyton, “nor, unless I very

greatly alter my opinion of that gentleman, shall I ever be so. I do

think Mr. Leicester would have give I credit for well taste than to

have suppose such a thing possible, but I see I be mistaken; and now,”

 she add, “having find the book I come to seek, I must wish you good

morning, and--a pleasant journey to Constantinople.”



“stay, Miss Peyton,” exclaim Leicester, for once really excited; “you

have say too much or too little. pardon I,” he continue, “I will not

detain you five minute, but speak I must.” take her hand, he lead she

to a seat, and resumed--



“I be place in a position equally painful and difficult, but the good

and most straightforward course I can pursue will be to tell you in as

few word as possible the simple truth, and then leave you to decide

upon my fate. the difficulty! have to encounter be this:--You be an

heiress; I, a portionless young brother, without a profession, and

bring up in expensive and indolent habit. be I then to tell you

that I love you, and that the dear wish of my heart be to call you

mine, how can I expect you to think that I be not actuate by mercenary

motive? to believe that I do indeed, deeply, truly love you, with an

intensity of which I scarcely could have believe my nature capable?

when first I seek your society, I frankly own (and if the admission

ruin my cause I cannot help it, for I will not attempt to deceive you)

it be the report of your rich which attract I. I consider you

lady-like and agreeable, and this be the case, I would willingly have

do as I see man of my acquaintance do everyday--marry for money; but

as I become intimate with you, and discover the priceless treasure

of your heart and mind, my view and feeling alter. I soon learn

to love you for yourself alone, and then for the first time, when I

perceive that in marry you I have everything to gain and nothing

to offer in return, I become fully aware of the meanness of the act I

contemplate--in fact I see the matter in its true light, and feel

that to ask you to become my wife would be an insult rather than a

compliment. thus, the more I grow to love you, the less I venture to

show it, till at last, pride come to my assistance, I resolve to tear

myself away, and quit Scotland abruptly, intend never to renew our

intimacy, unless some unexpected stroke of fortune should enable I

to do so on more equal term. my cousin Annie, however, have it seem

guess my secret, and invite you here without mention her intention

to I till you have actually arrive. have I act consistently, I should

have leave this place a fortnight ago; but I have suffer so much

during my absence, and the delight of again associate with you be so

overpowering, that I have not sufficient strength of will to carry out

my determination; thus I continue day by day yield myself to the

fascination of your society, learn to love you more and more, and

yet not dare to tell you so, because I feel the impossibility of

prove--even now it seem absurd to say--my disinterestedness; but that

I love you for yourself alone. such have be for some day my state of

feeling, when yesterday I be nearly drive distract by that man, De

Grandeville, actually select I as his confidant, and consult I

of all people in the world as to the advisability of make you an offer

of marriage, hint that he have reason to believe such a proposal would

be favourably receive by you.”



“Insolent!” exclaim Miss Peyton, raise her eye for the first time

during Leicester’s address, and look he full in the face. “so

far from encourage he, I have never speak to he save to turn his

pompous speech into ridicule since I be first introduce to he.”



“so I would fain have teach myself to believe yesterday,” resume

Leicester; “but the coldness of your manner towards I, and the marked

attention you allow he to pay you during the evening, torture I

with doubt, and when, after an animate conversation in the music-room,

I see he raise your hand to his lip, I imagine he have put his design

into execution, and be an accepted suitor.”



“a reject one would have be near the mark,” murmur Miss Peyton.



“utterly miserable,” continue Leicester, “at the idea of having

irrevocably lose you--provoke that you should have accept a man so

completely your inferior in mind, and, indeed, in every particular,

I order post-horse before I retire for the night, and but for this

accidental meeting should have be already on my road to London. and

now,” he continue with passionate eagerness, “it be for you to decide

whether my future life be to be happy or miserable. if truth have any

power of reveal itself, you will believe that I love you deeply,

tenderly, for yourself alone; and you will decide whether such an

affection be calculate to ensure your happiness; but if you be unable

to credit my sincerity, only say the word, and I leave you for ever.”



he cease, and clench his hand in the excess of his emotion till

the nail appear to grow into the flesh, stand before she, pale and

agitated, like a criminal await the sentence which shall send he

forth a free man or consign he to a felon’s grave. after watch she

anxiously for a few moment, during which she remain without speak,

her head avert and her feature conceal by her close straw bonnet,

he resume: “I see it be in vain to wait; your silence tell I that

I have nothing to hope--fool that I be ever to deem it could be

otherwise! Farewell, Laura; may you be as happy as I would have strive

to render you.”



he turn, and his hand be again on the lock of the door, when a low,

sweet voice, every accent of which thrill through his very soul,

murmured--



“Mr. Leicester--Charles--do not go--you will not leave I?”



and accordingly he do _not_ go, but come back instantly like an

amiable, obedient young man as he be, and receive the reward of merit

by learn from the lip of she he love that she be not only convince

of the sincerity of the affection he have bestow on she, but prize

the gift so highly that she feel oblige to return it, which statement

sound very like a contradiction, but be nothing of the kind.

then follow a bright, happy half-hour, one of those little bit of

unmitigated sunshine which gleam once or twice in a lifetime to thaw

the ice that tear which have never find vent form more or less thickly

around the heart of each of we; and ere it be over, Laura Peyton stand

pledge to become the wife of Charley Leicester, who dis-order the

post-horse and postpone his journey to Constantinople _ad infinitum_.



several droll little scene occur later on that morning between

various member of the party assemble at Broadhurst. in the first

place, Annie Grant, who, completely tired out, and greatly concern

at the mysterious impediment which obstruct the course of her cousin

Charles’s love affair, have seek her pillow with a firm conviction she

should never close her eye all night, fall asleep immediately, and wake

soon after nine o’clock on the follow morning under the impression

that she have just go to bed. while she be dress she resolve in

her anxious mind her cousin’s difficulty, and come to the follow

conclusion: first, that for sundry reason connect with his natural

indolence and a painful sense of his dependent position, Charley would

never “tell his love;” secondly, that Laura, not divine these reason,

be pique and hurt at his prolonged silence; and thirdly, that it

behove she (Annie) to remove these stumbling-block by a little

judicious interference. accordingly, when she have finish her toilet,

and, give a last parting glance at her pretty face and graceful figure

in the cheval glass in her dressing-room, have think--well, I don’t

know that we’ve any business to pry into her thought, but by the bright

half-smile, half-blush which result from the inspection it may be

conclude they be of an agreeable nature. when she have perform this

little unconscious act of homage to her own beauty she trip off to

her friend’s room, and find that young lady fasten a very dangerous

little bow of ribbon around her neck, with a small turquoise brooch

make in the shape of a true lover’s knot. I wonder why she should have

select _it_ from some twenty other on that morning in particular?



“idle girl!” exclaim Annie, kiss she affectionately, as if idleness

be a highly commendable quality, “idle girl! not dress at ten

o’clock, and I’ve be ready for the last five minute.”



“I’m very sorry, dear; but if you know what pleasant dream I’ve

enjoy, you would not wish to have dispel they,” return Laura

demurely, though there be a fund of merriment gleam in her dark eye

which Annie in her innocence do not perceive. feel, however, that

under the circumstance her friend have no business to have be so very

happy, even in her dream, she answer somewhat pettishly--



“you have be more favour than I have be. I go to bed cross and

worried, and fret over all my trouble again in my dream. Laura

dear,” she continue, “I want to say something to you, if I think you

would not be angry with I: I wish you--but cann’t you guess what I’m

go to say?”



Miss Peyton shake her pretty head, and confirm the conviction

express by De Grandeville, that her family be of modern date, by

repudiate any connection with the race of Odipus. so poor, sensitive

Annie be force to clothe her meaning in plain and unmistakable word,

which she endeavour to do by resuming--



“my cousin Charles, dear Laura--you know we be bring up together as

child, and I love he as a brother; he be so kind-hearted and such

a sweet temper; and of course I be aware he make himself rather

ridiculous sometimes with his indolence and affectation, but he have

be so spoiled and flatter by the set he live in--it be only

manner--whenever he be really call upon to act, you have no notion

what good sense and right feeling he display. dear Laura, I cann’t bear

to see he so unhappy!”



at the beginning of this speech Miss Peyton colour slightly; as it

proceed her eye sparkle, and any one less occupy with their own

feeling than be Annie Grant might have observe that tear glisten

in they; but at its conclusion she observe in her usual quiet tone--



“I don’t believe Mr. Leicester be unhappy.”



“ah! you don’t know he as well as I do,” return Annie, her cheek

glowing and her eye beam with the interest she take in the subject;

“he be so wretched all yesterday evening; he eat no supper, and sit

moping in corner, as unlike his natural, happy self as possible.”



“do you hear that he have order post-horse at eight o’clock this

morning?” inquire Laura.



“no! you don’t mean it!” exclaim Annie, clasp her hand in dismay.

“oh, I hope he be not go!”



“you may depend upon it he be,” rejoin Miss Peyton, turn to the

glass avowedly to smooth her glossy hair, which do not in the slight

degree require that process, but in reality to hide a smile. “he must

be on his way to town by this time, _unless_ anything have occur this

morning to cause he to alter his determination.”



“that be impossible,” return Annie quickly; then add in a tone of

the deep reproach, “oh, Laura! how could you be so cruel as to let

he go?” she burst into a flood of tear. and Laura, that heartless

young hyæna of fashionable life, that savage speciman of the perfidious

sex of whom a poet sings--



               Woman, though so mild she seem,



                   will take your heart and tantalise it;



               be it make of Portland stone,



                   she’d manage to Macadamise it”--



what do you suppose she do on the occasion? nothing wonderful, and yet

the good thing she could, for she wreathe her soft arm round Annie’s

neck, and kiss away her tear, whisper in a few simple touching

word the secret of her happy love.









CHAPTER XXVII.--BROTHERLY LOVE “À LA MODE.”



now let we shake the kaleidoscope and take a peep at another

combination of our _dramatis personæ_ at this particular phase of their

destiny. Lord Bellefield be breakfast in his private sitting-room;

a bright fire blaze on the hearth; close to it have be draw a sofa,

upon which, wrap in a dressing-gown of rich brocade silk, lounge

the tenant of the apartment; a breakfast-table stand by the sofa, on

which be place an empty coffee cup, a small flask of french brandy,

and a liqueur glass, together with a plate of toast apparently scarcely

touch, a cut-glass saucer contain marmalade, and a cigar-case. his

lordship appear to be by no mean in an amiable frame of mind. he

have sit up the previous night some two hour after the ball be over,

play _ecarté_ with certain intimate of his own, whom he have cause

to be invite to Broadhurst, during which time he have contrive to

lose between £200 and,£300. early in the past day he have form a

canvassing engagement with General Grant for eleven o’clock on the

follow morning, which have oblige he to rise soon than be by any

mean agreeable to his taste, or consonant with his usual habit; and

lastly, he expect an important letter, and the post be late. while

he be ponder this agglomerate (to choose a euphonious word) of

small evil, the door open noiselessly, and Antoine, the french valet,

carry a well-brush coat as tenderly as if it have be a baby, stole

on tiptoe across the room. Lord Bellefield, whose head be turn away

from the door, stretch out his hand, exclaim impatiently, “well,

where be they?”



“_Milor!_” return the astonished Frenchman, who in his interest about

the coat have forget the letter.



“the letter, fool, where be they?” reiterate his lordship angrily.



“_Mille pardon, Milor_; but ven I do valk myself up zie stair, I

be not avare dat zie lettair have make zemselve to arrive,” rejoin

Antoine with a self-satisfied smile, as if he have say something clever.



“do you ask?” return his master with a frown.



“_Non pas précisément_--I do not exactly demand,” stammer Antoine

with (this time) a deprecatory smile.



Lord Bellefield’s only reply be an oath; then, see the man remain,

uncertain what to do, he added--



“go down again directly, idiot, and don’t return without my letter,

unless----” a menacing gesture of his clench fist supply the blank,

and the valet quit the room, mutter with a shrug as he close the

door, “_Qu’ils sont barbare, ce Anglais_; but, _parbleu_, like all zie

savage, dey be make of gold--_eh! bien, c’est égal_,--he shall pay I

veil for he.”



Lord Bellefield be not fate to enjoy the blessing of peace that

morning, for scarcely have his servant close the door ere some one else

tap at it. “come in,” shout the victimise peer, append a wish

concern his visitor, of which the most charitable view we can take be

that he be desirous of offer he a warm reception. however this

may be, Charles Leicester (for he it be to whose lot his brother’s

left-handed benediction have fall) enter the room, his face

reflect the joy of his heart, and draw a chair to the opposite

side of the fire-place, seat himself thereupon, and begin rub

his hand with a degree of energy totally oppose to his usual listless

indifference.



“be there no other fire in the house that you be necessitate to come

and warm your hand here, Mr. Leicester? I fancy you be aware that

if there be one thing in the world which annoy I more than another,

it be to be intrude on in a morning,” observe his lordship pettishly.

then, for the first time catch sight of his brother’s face, he

continue, “what on earth be you look so absurdly happy about?”



“now, don’t growl this morning, Belle; be a little bit like a brother

for once in your life. I’m come to receive your congratulation,”

 return Leicester.



“have your jewish money-lender turn Christian and burn his book,

like the magician of old?” inquire Bellefield sarcastically.



“something almost as wonderful,” reply his brother, “for I live in

good hope of pay he.”



“why, you don’t mean to say my father be go to be such a confound

fool as to pay your debt?” continue Bellefield, spring up in the

excitement of the moment. “I swear I’ll not allow it; he’ll burden the

estate so that when I come into the title I shall be a beggar.”



“keep yourself cool, my good brother; you might be sure I should never

in my wildest moment dream of ask you to congratulate I on any good

fortune which could by the most remote contingency either affect your

interest or interfere with your ease and comfort,” reply Leicester,

for once provoke to say a cutting thing by his brother’s intense

selfishness.



“really, Charles, I’m in no humour for foolery or impertinence,” say

Lord Bellefield snappishly. “if there’s anything you wish I to know,

tell it at once; if not, I be expect important letter, and should be

glad to be alone.”



“what should you say if you hear I be go to be hang, Belle?”

 ask Charley.



“wish you joy of your exalt destiny, and think thing might have be

bad,” be the answer.



“apply both the wish and reflection to the present emergency,” return

Leicester, “for I’m in nearly as sad a case--I’m go to be marry.”



“on the principle that what be not enough to keep one can support two,

I suppose!” rejoin Lord Bellefield in a tone of the most bitter

contempt. “well, I do _not_ think--but I wash my hand of the affair

entirely. only mind this--the property be strictly entail, my father

can do nothing without my consent, and if you expect that you’re to be

support in idleness at our expense----”



“my dear fellow, I expect nothing of the kind,” return Charley,

caress his whisker. “my wife and I mean to set up a cigar divan, and

all we shall look for from you be your custom; we certainly do hope to

make a decent live out of that.”



Lord Bellefield utter an exclamation expressive of disgust, and then

inquire abruptly--



“well, who be the woman?”



“she ben’t exactly a woman,” return Charley meekly; “that be, of

course, speak literally and in a physiological point of view she be

a woman, but in the language of civilised society she be something more

than a mere woman--for instance, by birth she be a lady. nature have

bestow on she that somewhat unusual feminine attribute, a mind, to

which art, through the medium of the various educational science,

have add cultivation; then she have the sweetest, most lovable

disposition----



“there! spare I your lover’ rapture,” return Lord Bellefield; “of

all stale trash they be the most sickening; and tell I plainly, in

five word, who she _be_, and what she _have_.”



“Laura Peyton--heiress--value unknown,” return Leicester emphatically

and concisely.



“Miss Peyton!” exclaim Lord Bellefield in surprise. “my dear Charles,”

 he continue in a more cordial tone than he have yet use, “do you really

mean that you’re engage to Laura Peyton? why, she be say to have

between four and five thousand a year in the fund, besides a princely

estate in------shire. be you in earnest?”



“never be so much so about anything before in my life,” return

Leicester. “if I don’t marry Laura Peyton, and that very soon too, I

shall do something so desperate that society have well shut up shop at

once, for it’s safe to be ‘uproot from its very foundation,’ as the

conservative paper say if a poor devil of a chartist happen to strop

his razor before commit the ‘overt act’ by which he cut his own

throat.”



“’pon my word,” exclaim Lord Bellefield, as he become convinced that

his brother be really in earnest, “ ’pon my word, you’ve play your

card deucedly well. I declare, if I haven’t be book for little Annie

here, I wouldn’t have mind marry the girl myself. why, Charley,

you’ll actually become a creditable member of society.”



as he speak a tap be hear at the door, and Antoine make his

appearance, breathless with the haste in which he have run upstairs.



“_Enfin elle sont arrivées_,” he exclaim, hand the letter on a

silver waiter; “vhy for _zey vos si tard_, zie postman, he do slip up

on von vot you call--(_ah! q té ils sont difficile, ce sacrés mot

Anglais_)--slid? _oui! oui!_ he do slip himself up on von slid, and

tumble into two ditch.”



Lord Bellefield seize the letter eagerly. sign to the valet to

leave the room, without heed his lucid explanation of the delay, he

select one in a particular handwriting, and tear it open, hastily

peruse the first few line; then rub his hand, he exclaim with

an oath, “by ------! Beppo’s won, and I’m a clear, £12,000 in pocket.

Charley, boy,” he continue, with a sudden impulse of generosity (for no

one be all bad), “how much be your debt?”



“I believe about £2000 would cover they,” return Leicester.



“then I’ll clear you, old fellow,” reply Lord Bellefield, clap he

on the shoulder, “and you shall marry your rich bride a free man.”



“my dear Bellefield, I cann’t allow it--you be too kind--I--I really

don’t know how to thank you--I cann’t think what’s come to everybody

this morning,” cry poor Charley, as, fairly overpower by his good

fortune, he seize Lord Bellefield’s hand and wrung it warmly. at that

moment those two man, each warp and harden differently, as their

disposition differ, by the world’s evil influence, feel more as

brother should feel towards each other than they have do since they

play together year ago as little child at their mother’s knee.

with one the kindly feeling thus revive be never again entirely

forget; with the other--but we will not anticipate.









CHAPTER XXVIII.--BEGINS ABRUPTLY and ENDS UNCOMFORTABLY.



“well, what be it? for I can see by your eye that you have something

you wish to ask I, Walter,” observe Lewis, as his pupil stand before

he nervously move his foot and twist the lash of a dog-whip round

his hand.



“only Millar want--that is, he don’t want, but he say he would take

I out with he to see he shoot those great pretty bird.”



“Pheasants,” suggest Lewis.



“yes, to see he shoot pheasant,” continue Walter, “if you would let

I go. Millar say,” he add, see that Lewis appear doubtful,

“Millar say all real gentleman like shooting, and that I’m quite old

enough to learn.”



one great change work in Walter since he have be under Lewis’s

direction--a change from which his tutor augur the most favourable

result--be the almost total disappearance of those fit of morbid

despondency and indifference to external object, at time almost

amount to unconscious imbecility, to which he have formerly be

subject; it be therefore a part of Lewis’s system to encourage he

to follow up vigorously any pursuit for which he evince the slight

predilection; indeed, so effectual a mean do he consider this of

arouse his faculty, that he often sacrifice to it the daily routine

of mechanical teaching. have, therefore, run over in his mind the pro

and con, and decide that if he accompany his pupil no danger could

accrue, he graciously give his consent, and having encase his foot in

a stout pair of boot, and see that Walter follow his example,

both master and pupil hasten to the stable-yard to join the worthy

individual with whom the expedition have originate.



Millar, who, as the reader have probably ere this divine, be none other

than General Grant’s head gamekeeper, appear anxious to be off without

delay, as he have receive order to kill a certain amount of game which

be require for a forthcoming dinner-party. the morning be, as we have

already say, lovely, and Lewis enjoy the brisk walk through some of

the most wild and picturesque scenery the country afford with a degree

of z at which he be himself surprised. the pheasant, however,

not be endow with such superornithological resignation as certain

water-fowl, who, when require for culinary purpose be invite, as

the nursery rhyme relate, to their own execution by the unalluring

couplet,



               “dilly dilly dilly duck, come and be kill!”



appear singularly unwilling to face death at that particular epoch,

and contrive accordingly by some mean or other to render themselves

invisible. in vain do Millar try the choice spinnie, in vain do

he scramble through impassable hedge, where gap there be none,

render himself a very pin-cushion for thorn; in vain do he creep

along what he be pleased to term dry ditch, till from the

waist downward he look more like a geological speciman than a

leather-gaitere and corduroyed Christian; still the obdurate pheasant

refuse to stand fire, either present or prospective (gun or kitchen),

and at the end of three hour’ hard walk through the good preserve

the disconsolate gamekeeper have only succeed in bag a brace.

at length completely dishearten, he come to anchor on a stile,

and produce a flask of spirit, with the content of which (after

fruitlessly press Lewis and Walter to partake thereof) he proceed

to regale himself. find himself the well for this prescription,

he shout to a dishevel individual clepe the beater, who for the

trifle consideration of eighteenpence per diem and a meal of broken

victual, deliver himself over to the agreeable certainty of be wet

_to_ the skin, and scratch and tear _through_ it, with the by no mean

remote contingency of getting accidentally shoot into the bargain. the

creature who appear in answer to this summon, and who in spite of

the uncomfortable description we have give of his occupation, seem to

enjoy his day’s sport excessively, be too old for a boy and too young

for a man. his face be, of course, scratch and bleed, and his

elf lock, drench with the hoar frost, now melt into a specie of

half-frozen gelatine, give he a strange, unearthly appearance. his

clothing, if rag which look like the cast-off garment of an indigent

scarecrow deserve the name, be so tattered and tear, that the fact of

their hang upon he at all be calculate to shake one’s faith in the

newtonian theory of gravitation, till one gain a clue to the mystery

by recollect the antagonistic principle “attraction of cohesion;”

 the only personal attraction, by the way (save a pair of clear grey eye

give a shrewd expression to his face), that our friend possess.



“Villiam,” begin his superior--and here let it be remark

parenthetically that it be the custom of this excellent gamekeeper

invariably to address his satellite for the time be as “Villiam,”

 utterly disregard the occasional fact that the sponsor of the youth

have see fit to call he otherwise--“Villiam,” observe Mr. Millar,

“you’re vet.” this be an incontrovertible certainty, evident to the

mean capacity, “Villiam” do not feel call upon to reply in word,

merely shake himself like a Newfoundland dog for the benefit of the

bystander, and glance wistfully at the flask. “yer vet right thro’

yer, Villiam,” resume his employer dogmatically; “so shove a drop o’

this here down yer throat, and make spurrit and vater of yerself.”



to this proposition “Villiam” reply by stretch out his hand,

grasp the flask eagerly, then tug at a tangled lock of hair on

his forehead as a salutation to the assemble company, and growl

out in a hoarse, damp voice, “here’s wushin’ hall yer ’ealth,” he

proceed to “do his spiriting,” though by no mean as “gently” as the

delicate Ariel be accustom to perform that operation. having thus

qualify his cold-water system by the introduction of alcohol, the

spirit move he and he spake.



“yer ain’t bag much game, Master, this mornin’, I reckon?”



“not I,” be the reply; “no man cann’t shoot thing as ain’t wisibul, yer

know, Villiam. I cann’t think vot’s get all the game.”



“they do tell I as pheasand as look wery like ourn go to Lunnun in

t’carrier’s cart twice a veek,” observe “Villiam” in a dreamy, absent

kind of manner, as if the remark be totally foreign to the subject

under discussion.



“ah! that’s vot yer hear, be it, Villiam?” return Millar carelessly.

“Hif that’s the case, I suppose (for ’tain’t likely they valk there

of themselves) somebody must take ’em?”



“that be right, Master,” be the rejoinder.



“have it hever cum across yer--take another drop of spurrit, Villiam;

yer vet--have it hever cum across yer who that somebody his?” demand

Millar in an easy, careless tone of voice.



“his it true as ther General think o’ puttin’ hon a second

hunder-keeper?” rejoin “Villiam,” reply, like an irish echo, by

another question.



“Hi’m avake, Villiam,” return his patron with an encouraging wink, “it

certingly his possibul hif I vas to tell ther General that I know

a quick, hintelligent lad have might be wery useful in _catchin

poarchers_--yer understand, Villiam--sich a thing might cum about.”



“in that case hi’m free to mention that hi see three cove a cummin’

hout o’ Todshole Spinney vith a sack as vosn’t haltogither hempty,

atween three and four o’clock this here bless mornin’.”



“and vot might yer be a’ doin’ yerself, hout o’ bed at that time o’

night, Villiam?” inquire Millar suspiciously.



“a lying in a dry ditch vith my heye open,” return the imp

significantly.



“I see!” rejoin the keeper reflectively. “Yer don’t happen

haccidentally to know any o’ they three cove, Villiam, I suppose?”



“Ther von have carry the sack worn’t haltogither unlike long Hardy, the

blacksmith,” be the reply.



the worthy Mr. Millar meditate for some minute in silence on the

information thus acquire; then rouse himself with a sudden start, he

observe, “now, Villiam, hif you’ll be so hoblige have to beat along

that ere ’edgerow to the right, ve’ll see hif ve can knock hover

another brace o’ longtail, and ve can talk about Mr. Hardy ven ve have

finish our day’s vork. there’s a precious young limb o’ vickedness,”

 he add, turn to Lewis as the boy get out of earshot, “he’s von hof

’em, bless yer, only he’s turn again ’em with a mercenary view hof

get a hunder-keeper’s sitivation.”



“in which rascality do you mean to allow he to succeed?” ask Lewis.



“not by no manner o’ mean--halway suppose I can pump he dry

without,” be the prudent reply; and shoulder his doublebarrel the

gamekeeper quit his perch on the stile and resume his shooting.



whether the intelligence he have receive have affect his nervous system

(reserve for future discussion the more doubtful question of his

possess such an aristocratic organisation), or whether in the

excitement of the moment he have allow himself to imbibe an unusually

liberal allowance of the content of the spirit-flask, we do not pretend

to decide; but certain it be that he miss consecutively two as fair

shot as ever present themselves to the gun of a sportsman, and end

by wound, without bring down, a young hen pheasant, despite the

warning cry of “‘ware hen” from the perfidious “Villiam,” then locate

in a quagmire.



“Veil, I never do!” exclaim the unfortunate perpetrator of this the

great crime which in a gamekeeper’s opinion a sportsman can commit;

“I ’aven’t do sich a think have that since I wo a boy o’ thirteen

year old, and father quilt I with the dog-whip for it, and sarve

I right, too. this here’s a werry snipey bit, too,” he continue

dejectedly; “but hif I cann’t ’it apheasand, hit’s useless to ’old up

my gun hat a snipe.”



“your ill luck in the morning have make you impatient and spoil your

shooting,” observe Lewis, wish good-naturedly to propitiate his

companion.



this speech, however, seem to produce just a contrary effect, for

Millar answer gruffly, “perhaps, Mister, you fancy as you can do

well yourself; hif so, you’re velcome to take the gun and try.”



“I’ve no objection,” reply Lewis, smile at the very evident contempt

in which, as a “lunnuner,” his companion hold he; “I’ll try a shot or

two, if you like.”



“here you be, then, sir,” be the reply, as the keeper hand he the

gun; “the right barrel’s shot for pheasand, and the left for snipe;

so look hout, and if yer don’t bag Villiam, or Master Valter here,

hit’ll be a mercy, I expect.”



if the unfortunate Millar hope to console himself for his own failure

by witness a similar _mis_hap on the part of the young tutor, he

be once more doomed to be disappoint; for scarcely have Lewis

take possession of the gun when a splendid cock-pheasant rise within

distance, though far off than either of the shot the keeper have

just miss, and, ere its gaudy plumage have well catch the ray of

the sun above the top of the young plantation, fall to the ground,

quiver in the agony of death. as the smoke from the discharge

clear away, a snipe, scare alike by the report of the gun and the

approach of the beater, spring from a thick clump of alder bush and

dart away, utter its peculiar cry.



“no use--hit’s clean out o’ shot,” exclaim Millar, as Lewis, swift as

thought, again raise the gun to his shoulder. slightly pique by the

keeper’s contemptuous manner, he determine not to throw away a chance

of vindicate his skill as a marksman, and though he feel by no mean

sure of success, on the “nothing venture nothing have” principle, the

instant he get a clear sight of the bird he blaze away at it. great

then be his delight to perceive the snipe suddenly tower upwards and

then drop to the ground, as if strike by lightning.



“Vel, if that hain’t a clever shot!” ejaculate Millar, surprised into

admiration in spite of himself; “bless’d if yer ’aven’t tuk the shine

hout of I properly. I thort yer vos a reg’lar green un, but I’m free to

confess I couldn’t ’ave kill that ere bird at that distance ther good

o’ time.”



“nor have I, it seem,” exclaim Lewis, as the snipe, which be only

wound, rise, fly a short distance, and drop again.



“hit’s dead this time. I’ll bet a quart,” observe Millar; “hit’ll never

git hup no more, hif ve can honly find it.”



“I think I can,” say Lewis; “I mark the exact spot where it fall.

Walter, do you stay with Millar till I come back. I should not like to

lose it.”



so say, Lewis, completely carry away by the excitement of the

sport, return the gun to its owner, and dash the branch aside,

bound forward, and be soon hide amongst the tree, as he force

his way through the dense underwood towards the spot where he trust

to find the snipe. with some difficulty, and after much energetic

scrambling, Lewis reach the place where he have see the bird fall, but

even then it be no such easy matter to find it, nor be it till he have

nearly decide that he must relinquish the search that he discover his

victim catch in a forked branch, and perfectly dead. having secure

his prize, the next object be to rejoin his companion, and this

accordingly he endeavour to accomplish without delay; but since the

day of pious Æneas the task of retrace our step, the _revocare

gradus_, have be a work of difficulty, more especially if we have

begin by take a few in a wrong direction, and Lewis’s case prove no

exception to the rule. after one or two wrong turn he become completely

bewilder, and feel sure that he should never discover his right

course while surround by the thick underwood, he strike into the first

path which present itself, and follow its winding, find himself,

almost immediately, close to the hedge which separate that side of the

plantation from a grass-field beyond. as he make his way towards a gap

in this hedge his attention be attract by the sound of voice, and

on approach the spot he perceive two person engage in earnest

conversation.



they be a man and a girl, the former, who wear the dress of a

gentleman, have his arm round his companion’s waist. the interview

seem, however, about to terminate, for as Lewis pause, uncertain

whether or not to make himself know to the lover (for such he

conjecture they to be), the gentleman stoop, imprint a kiss on the

damsel’s brow, then say, “remember, you have promise!” loose the

bridle of a horse which be fasten to the branch of a tree, spring

into the saddle, and ride hastily away. not, however, before Lewis have

recognise the feature of Lord Bellefield.



surprise at this discovery be the first feeling of which Lewis be

conscious, then a sudden desire seize he to ascertain who the girl

could be, and without wait to reflect on what far course it might

be advisable for he to pursue, he cross the gap, spring over the

ditch beyond, and present himself before she. with a violent start

and a slight scream at this sudden apparition, the girl raise her head,

disclose to Lewis the intelligent face and earnest eye of the young

female who have accost he on the previous evening immediately after

the affair of the glove have take place. Lewis be the first to speak.



“I have startle you, I fear,” he begin. “I quit my companion to

go in search of a snipe I have just shoot, and become bewilder in the

wood, have contrive to miss they. hear voice in this direction, I

jump over the hedge, hope I should find some one who could tell I

how to retrace my step.”



“be you in the hazel walk when you leave your party, sir?” inquire the

girl in a voice which falter from various conflict emotion.



Lewis answer in the affirmative, and she continued--



“then, if you go straight on till you come to the corner of the field

you will see a gate on your left hand; get over that and follow the road

which lead into the wood, and it will bring you to your friend.”



Lewis thank she, and then stand a moment, irresolute whether or not

to allude to the parting he have just witness. it be no affair of his,

and yet could he answer it to his conscience not to warn she against

the design which, he do not doubt, Lord Bellefield entertain against

she?



“do not think I interfere without reason,” he observe, “but I be an

involuntary witness to your parting with that gentleman, and I wish to

ask you if you be acquaint with his name and position?”



the girl cast down her eye, and after a pause, murmur that she know

he be very rich.



“and his name?” urge Lewis.



“Mr. Leicester, brother to the young Lord,” she believe.



“he have tell you that, have he?” return Lewis sternly; “and do it not

occur to you to inquire of the servant last night whether your wealthy

admirer have reveal to you his real name?”



“no; she have never doubt that he have do so,” make game of a

fellow.



“and perhaps be unwilling to call attention to your connection with

he by make the inquiry?” resume Lewis.



a bright blush prove that he have hit upon the truth; but the probe

nature of his question rouse the girl’s spirit, and raise her eye,

she look he full in the face as she in her turn inquired--“And pray,

sir, who be you? and what right have you to question I in this way?”



“my name be Lewis Arundel; I reside at Broadhurst, as tutor to Sir

Walter Desborough,” be the reply; “and my right to ask you these

question be the right every man possess to do his good to counteract

the design of a heartless libertine; for such I take your friend to

be, and now I will give you my reason for think he so. in the first

place, he have not tell you his true name: he be not Lord Bellefield’s

brother, as he pretend, but Lord Bellefield himself; and in the second

place, at the very moment when he be make profession of affection

here to you, he be engage to be married to his cousin, the daughter of

General Grant.”



“it be not true, you hate he,” exclaim the girl with flash

eye. “you quarrel with he last night, and now you seek to revenge

yourself by sow dissension between he and I, but you shall not

succeed. I see through your meanness, and despise you for it.”



“girl, you be infatuate,” return Lewis angrily, “and must reap the

fruit of your obstinate folly. I speak only for your good, and tell you

the simple truth. if you choose to disbelieve I, the sin will lie at

your door, and not mine.”



as he speak he turn and leave she. by the time he reach the gate into

the wood his conscience begin to reproach he for having be too hasty.

he look back to see if the girl be still there; she have not move

from the spot where he have quit she, but stand motionless, apparently

bury in the deep thought. suddenly observe that his eye be

direct towards she, she start, and draw her shawl close around

she, hurry away in an opposite direction. Lewis watch her retreating

figure till it become no long visible; then get over the gate, he

walk leisurely along the turfed road to rejoin his companion. he

be no coward, far from it; but have he know that at that moment a

gun-barrel cover he, level by the stalwart arm and keen eye of one

before whose unerring aim by the broad light of day, or beneath the

cold ray of the moon, hare, pheasant, or partridge fall like leave in

autumn--one who, hide from the gaze of man, have witness his parting

from the girl not five minute since,--had he know the deep interest

feel for she by this person, and how, his suspicion be arouse, he

have watch day after day to discover the feature of her clandestine

suitor, but have never succeed, till, creep through the bush, he

have accidentally come up at the moment when Lewis, having speak eagerly

to she, turn and leave the spot,--had he know the struggle between the

good and evil principle in that man’s heart, a struggle on the result

of which depend life or death,--had he know all this, Lewis Arundel,

though a brave man, would scarcely have pace that greenwood alley with

a pulse so calm, a brow so unruffled and serene.



[illustration: 0204]









chapter XXIX.--DE GRANDEVILLE meet his MATCH.



unpleasant as be the situation in which Lewis be leave at the end

of the last chapter, we can scarcely imagine that any of our reader,

however they may be accustom to look on the “night side of nature,”

 can have coolly make up their mind to the bad, and settle to their

own dissatisfaction that he fall a victim to the poacher’s gun. we say

we cannot imagine such a possibility; not because we have any very deep

reliance on the tender-heartedness of all our fellow-creature, see

that this tale may fall into the hand of a poor-law guardian or a

political economist; that a butcher may read it fresh from the shamble,

or a barrister after defend some confess murderer. but we feel

certain, butcher or barrister, law-giver or guardian must alike perceive

that, as we be write the life and adventure of Lewis Arundel, we

cannot commit manslaughter without add thereunto suicide; or, to

speak plainly, we cannot kill Lewis without dock our own tale;

therefore, the utmost extent for which our most truculent reader can

possibly hope must be a severe gun-shot wound, entail a linger

illness and a shattered constitution. but even these pleasant and

reasonable expectation be doom to meet with disappointment, the fact

be that almost at the moment in which “long Hardy” (for he it be)

level his gun at Lewis’s retreating figure, his quick ear have catch

a sound betoken the advance of some person through the bush in

his immediate vicinity; and neither wish to encounter any of the

gamekeeper’s satellite, nor consider the deed he have meditate

exactly calculate to be perform before any, even the most select

audience, the poacher slowly recover his gun and proceed to convey

himself away, after a singular snake-like fashion of his own, reserve

to himself the right of shoot his suppose enemy at some more

convenient season. in the meantime Lewis walk quietly on, unconscious

of the danger he have escape, until a turn in the road bring he in

sight of his companion. during the course of their homeward walk Lewis

question the gamekeeper as to his intention concern the poacher

to whose proceeding he have that morning gain a clue.



“Veil, yer see, Mr. Arundel,” return Millar, in whose estimation Lewis

have rise fifty per cent, since his clever shot at the snipe, “yer see,

it ain’t ther fust time as this chap hardy have give we a good deal o’

trouble: we catch he a poarchin’ about three year ago, and he wor

in ---------- gaol for six month at a stretch. Veil, ven he cum out,

he tuk to bad course altogether--jine ther chartists, they chap as

preache equalerty, ’cos, be at the wery bottom of ther ladder

therselve, equalerty would pull they hup and their better down;

vunce let ’em get to ther middle round, and they’d soon give

up equalerty--hit would be the ‘haristogracy of talent,’ or ther

‘shu-premacy of physic-all force’ (vich mean, adwisability of pitch

into somebody else) vith ’em then. I hate such canot as I hate

varmint, so I do.”



having deliver himself of this opinion with much emphasis, the keeper

proceed to relieve his mind by flog an inoffensive dog for an

imaginary offence ere he continued--



“Veil, arter he jine the chartist he vent to Lunnun as a Delicate, as

they call ’em; and have they find he in wittle and drink, lodgin’

and hother parquisite, in course he worn’t in no hurry to cum back;

howsomdever, I suppose at last they diskivere what I could a tell ’em

at furst--that he ben’t worth his keep; and so they pack he off home

agen. I ’specte vhen I hear he vas arrive vot he’d be hup to. he

call hisself a blacksmith, but he drive more shot into ’are and

pheasand than nail into ’orse’ ’oof, _you_ may depend.”



“and how do you propose to put a stop to his depredation?” inquire

Lewis.



“Vy, I should like to catch he in the wery act--nab he vith the game

upon he,” return the keeper meditatively; “then ve could get he

another six month. but he’s precious sly, and uncommon swift of

foot too, though he ain’t fur hoff my age, vich shall never see

five-and-forty no more.”



“I wish, Millar,” say Lewis, after a moment’s consideration, “I wish

that whenever you receive information which you think likely to lead to

this man’s capture, you’d send I word; there’s nothing I should like

well than to lend you a hand in take he. I might be useful to you,

for I be consider a fast runner.”



“and suppose it come to blow? they poarche chap be rough customer

to handle sometimes,” rejoin Millar, with a cunning twinkle in his

eye, as if he expect this information would alter his companion’s

intention.



“so much the more exciting,” return Lewis eagerly; “an affray with

poacher would be a real treat after such a life of inaction as I’ve

be lead lately.”



as he speak--throw off for a moment the cold reserve which have now

become habitual to he--his eye flash, he draw himself up to his full

height, and fling back his graceful head with an air of proud defiance.

the gamekeeper regard he fixedly, and mentally compare he with,

not the fighting gladiator, for Millar’s unclassical education have never

render he acquaint with that illustrious statue, but he have

once be present at a prize-fight, in which a tall, athletic youth,

rejoice in the ornithological sobriquet of “the spicy Dabchick,”

 prove victor, and to that dabchick do he assimilate Lewis. at length

his thought find vent in the following ejaculation--



“Veil, Mr. Arundel, hif ther’s many more like you hup there, that

bless Lunnun cann’t be as bad a place as I think it.”



Lewis smile. perhaps (for, after all, he be human and under

twenty-one) the evident admiration which have replace the no less

evident contempt with which the sturdy gamekeeper have regard he

early in their acquaintance be not without its charm; at all event,

when, after another hour’s shooting, Millar go home to dinner, and

Lewis and Walter return to Broadhurst, the young tutor diminish his

income to the extent of half-a-crown, and the keeper, as he pocket

the “tip,” renew his assurance that he would send Mr. Arundel timely

notice “vhenever there vas a chance of be down upon that poarche

willain, Hardy.”



Charley Leicester, as he do not start for Constantinople, find himself

at liberty to escort Laura Peyton and his cousin Annie to view the ruin

of Monkton Priory, which in themselves be quite worth the trouble of

a ride; have they, however, be even a less interesting combination

of brick and mortar than the National Gallery in Trafalgar Square

(suppose such a thing possible), it would not have signify to the

party who then visit they. never be three individual less inclined

to be critical, or more thoroughly determined to be pleased with

everything. the old grey ruin, frown beneath the clear wintry sky,

appear the colour of strawberry ice to they; every object reflect

the rose-tint of their happiness. as for Charley, a change have come o’er

he. the indolent, fastidious man of fashion, whose spotless glove and

irreproachable boot be the envy and admiration of Bond Street, have

disappear, and in his place arise an honest, genuine, light-hearte,

agreeable, sensible being, to whom nothing seem to come amiss, and

who appeared endow with a preternatural power of diffuse his own

superabundant happiness amongst all who come in contact with he. the

girth of his saddle break; they have no groom with they. “groom be

such a bore, he would be groom,” Charley have say; consequently there

be no mean at hand by which the injury could be repair.



“well, never mind; he would get some string at the first cottage and tie

it up; he be rather glad it have happen, ride without a girth be

great fun.”



but Laura’s horse stumble, and Charley, forget his precarious seat,

dash in the spur, intend to spring forward to her assistance. the

horse _do_ spring forward, but the saddle turn round. Mr. Leicester

be, however, fate that day to fall on his leg, literally as well as

metaphorically, and beyond be splash up to his knee by alight

on a spot where the sun have thaw the ice into a puddle, he sustain

no further injury. Laura be frightened; he must not mount again till he

have be able to get the girth mend.



“very well,” return Charley; “he would lead the horse then; it be

pleasanter to walk than to ride such a cold day as that; he like it

particularly.”



so he march sturdily through mud and mire, lead his own horse and

rest his hand on the mane of the animal ride by Laura, for the

space of some five mile, laugh and talk all the time so agreeably

that the young lady come to the conclusion that she have never properly

appreciate his power of conversation till that moment. altogether,

despite the break girth and the mud and the cold, to say nothing of a

slight snowstorm which overtake they ere they reach home, each member

of that little party feel mentally convinced that they have never before

enjoy a ride so much in all their life.



“Arundel, where be you?” exclaim Leicester, put his head into the

study as he pass the door on his way to his apartment. “can you spare

I five minute’ conversation?” he continue, as Lewis, close a book,

rise to receive he.



“certainly,” be the reply; “pray come in.”



“I’ve be wish to see you all day,” resume Leicester, carefully

shut the door and glance round the room. “where be your charge?”



“he be with the General,” be the reply. “he like to have he for

half-an-hour every day before he go to dress; he talk to he, and

try to instil into his mind correct notion regard thing in

general, and his own future social position in particular. Walter sit

still and listen, but I’m afraid he do not understand much about it.”



“no great loss either, I’ve a notion,” return Charley irreverently. he

pause, whistle a few bar of “Son Geloso,” entangle his spur in the

hearthrug, extricate it with much difficulty, then turn abruptly to

Lewis, he exclaim, “Arundel, I’m no hand at make fine speech, but

recollect if ever you want a friend I owe you more than I can possibly

repay you. not that this be such a very uncommon relation for I to

stand in towards people,” he add with a smile.



“Nay,” return Lewis, “you be reverse our position: I be your

debtor for my introduction to this family, and for an amount of kindness

and consideration which you must be place, like myself, in a dependent

situation fully to appreciate. but,” he add, glance at his friend’s

happy face, “I hope you have some good new’s to tell I?”



“you be right in your conjecture,” reply Leicester, “but it be mainly

owe to your straightforward and sensible advice that I have gain the

prize I strove for. I be within an ace of lose it, though;” and he

then give a hasty outline of his day’s adventure, with which the reader

have be already make acquainted.



Lewis congratulate he warmly on his good fortune. “you see I be

right when I tell you Miss Peyton be not so indifferent to you as you

imagine,” he say, “and that she like you, not because you be a man

of fashion, the admire of all admirer, but because she have sufficient

penetration to discover that you be something more--that you possess

high and well quality, and be not----”



“go on, my dear Arundel,” urge Leicester as Lewis pause, “go on. I

like plain speaking when it come from a friendly mouth.”



“the mere butterfly you strove to appear, I be go to say,” resume

Lewis; “but you will think I strangely impertinent.”



“not at all,” return Leicester, “it’s the truth; I can see it plainly

now. I’ve take as much trouble to make myself appear a fool as other

man do to gain a reputation for wisdom. well, it’s never too late to

mend. I shall turn over a new leaf from this time forth, give up dress,

restrict myself to one cigar a day, moderate my affection for pale ale,

invest capital in worst glove and a cotton umbrella, and become a

regular business character.” he pause, and draw a chair to the fire,

seat himself, and stretch out his leg, subject his boot, which

bear unmistakable trace of his pedestrian episode, to the influence of

the blaze wood. having thus make himself comfortable, he fall into a

fit of musing which last till, after gaze vacantly at his

extended leg for some moment, his feature suddenly assume an eager

expression, and he exclaim, “confound those blockhead, Schneider &

Shears: I suppose if I’ve tell they once I’ve tell they fifty time to

give more room in the leg for riding-trouser. a horse’s back be a wide

thing, and of course when you stretch your leg across it you require

the trouser to fit sufficiently loosely to accommodate themselves to

the position; they need not set like a couple of hop sack either; the

thing’s simple enough. I know if I’d a pair of scissor I could cut they

out myself.”



Glancing at Lewis as he speak, Leicester perceive that he be

struggle, not over successfully, to preserve his gravity, and the

absurdity of the thing strike he for the first time, he indulge in

a hearty laugh at his own expense ere he add, “Heigh-ho! it’s not so

easy to get rid of old habit as one imago. I see it will take I

long to unpuppyise myself than I be aware of. seriously, however,

I don’t mean to continue a mere idler, live on my wife’s fortune. my

father have interest with Government, and I shall ask he to push it

and obtain for I some creditable appointment or other. he will have no

difficulty; the Hon. Charles Leicester, husband to the rich Miss

Peyton, will possess much strong claim upon his country than Charley

Leicester the portionless young son. in this age of humbug it be easy

enough to get a thing if you don’t care whether you have it or not; but

if you chance to be some poor wretch, to whom the obtaining it be life

or death, ten to one but you be do out of it. poverty be the only

unpardonable sin in these day; the worship of the golden calf be a

specie of idolatry to which Christians be prone as well as Jews.

it’s rare to find a sceptic as to that religion, even amongst the most

inveterate unbeliever.”



Lewis, to whom leicester in his self-engrossment have not perceive that

his remark would apply, bit his lip and colour; then wish to save

his companion the mortification of discover that he have accidentally

wound his feeling, he hasten to change the conversation by

observing--



“how will the magnanimous Marmaduke bear the news of your success?”



“oh! to be sure, I be go to tell you about he when something put

it out of my head,” return Leicester. “the great De Grandeville be

great than ever on the subject--it be such fun. he come up to I

after breakfast this morning, and catch hold of my button, begin:

‘Ar--Mr. Leicester--excuse--ar--won’t detain you five minute,

but--ar--you see in regard to--ar--the matter we converse on yesterday,

when you be good enough to give I the benefit of your opinion

concern a certain propose alliance, if I may call your attention

once more to the subject; you will perceive that--ar--the affair have

assume a very different aspect--ar--indeed so completely different that

I feel confident you will agree with I in consider the--ar--in fact

the arrangement no long desirable.’



“I tell he I be quite prepared to think as he do on this point, and

beg to know in what the mysterious impediment consist. ‘well,

sir--ar--I don’t say it--ar--by way of a boast--ar--such thing be

quite out of my line, but you must have yourself perceive the

very marked encouragement which my advance meet with yesterday

evening--ar--in fact the game be--ar--in my own hand!’ I succeed

in repress a strong desire to kick he, and he continue with bland

dignity: ‘Ar--find that this be the case, I feel that, as a man of

honour, I be bind--ar--to make up my mind definitely as to my future

course, and have--ar--all but resolve to acquaint the young lady with

the brilliant, that be--ar--in many point unexceptionable position

which await she, when fortunately--I might say providentially--it

occur to I to open a letter I have that evening receive from my

friend in the Herald’s College. imagine my horror to learn that

her actual father, the immediately previous Peyton himself,

have--ar--_horresco referai_, as Pliny have it-- ’pon my word it quite

upset I!’



“‘this dreadful papa, have he murder somebody?’ inquire I.



“‘no, sir,’ be the answer; ‘Lord Ferrers and other man with

unexceptionable pedigree have commit that crime. there be

nothing necessarily vulgar about murder; the case be far bad. this

intolerable proximate ancestor, who have not rest in his dishonour

grave above half-a-dozen year, be not only guilty of belong to an

intensely respectable firm in Liverpool, but have actually be insane

enough to allow his name to be enter as sleep partner in a large

retail house on Ludgate Hill! Fancy a De Grandeville marry the

daughter of ‘Plumpstern & Peyton’, dealer in cotton goods!”--’pon

my word, sir, it take away my breath to think of the narrow escape I’d

have!’ ‘and the young lady?’ inquire I.



“‘Ar--of course it will be--ar--disappointment, as I’ve no doubt she

consider--ar--that she’d make her book cleverly and stand to win, as

the bet man say; but--ar--she soon have tact enough to perceive that

the grape be sour--ar--take that tone immediately,--clever girl,

sir, very--ar--I shouldn’t wonder if she be to give out that she have

discourage my attention--ar--in fact, virtually refuse I--ar--I

shall not contradict she, I owe she that--ar--with the exception

of yourself, Mr. Leicester, her secret will be perfectly safe in my

keeping.’ it be now my turn; so draw myself up as stiffly as

old Grant himself, I say, ‘confidence beget confidence, Mr. De

Grandeville; so in return for your candour allow I to inform you that

Miss Peyton, doubtless drive to despair by your desertion, have do I

the honour to accept I as your substitute! one word more,’ I continue,

as, completely take aback, he flush crimson and begin stammer out

apologetical ejaculation, ‘I have listen in silence to your account

of the transaction. I confess I have my own opinion about the matter,

but should you adhere to your intention of preserve a strict secrecy

in regard to the affair, I shall do so likewise; if not, I may feel

call on to publish a somewhat different version of these love

passage--one which will scarcely prove so agreeable to your

self-esteem; unless, indeed,’ I add, see that he be about to

bluster, ‘you prefer settle the business in a short way; in which

case I shall be quite at your service.’ so say I raise my hat,

bow, and turn on my heel, leave he to his meditation.”



“which must have be of a singularly unsatisfactory nature, I should

imagine,” return Lewis, laugh. “but there be no chance of your

fighting, I hope?”



“not the slight, I expect,” reply Leicester. “De Grandeville, to do

he justice, be no coward, but he will have sense enough to see that

he can gain no _éclât_ by give the affair publicity, and will remain

quiet for his own sake. luckily, I’m not of a quarrelsome temperament,

or I should have horse-whip he, or at least try at it, when he be

talk about Laura.”



“it be a temptation which in your place I could not have resist,”

 rejoin Lewis.



“ah, it’s easy to be magnanimous when one be happy,” return Leicester;

“besides, I really be rather sorry for the poor devil, for, as I

dare say you’ve guess long ago, it be clear Laura refuse he last

night--in fact she as good as tell I so.”



“perhaps it may benefit he,” remark Lewis. “his vanity be too

plethoric, and a little judicious lowering may conduce to the general

health of his moral system.”



“I’m afraid it’s a case of too long standing,” reply Leicester. “such

a lamentable instance of egotism on the brain be not so easily to be

cure; however, he’s have a pretty strong dose this time, I must confess.

and now, see that my boot have be wet through for the last three

hour, the soon I get rid of they the well.” so say, Charley

Leicester take himself off, preparatory to perform the same operation

on his perfidious boot.









CHAPTER XXX.--THE GENERAL take the field.



the interview which Lewis have witness between Lord Bellefield and

the girl dwelt in his thought, and be a source of much doubt and

uneasiness to he. the quiet, seclude life he have lead for the last year

afford ample time for meditation--the almost total want of society

(for poor Walter be no companion)--the peculiar position in which he

be place, shut out from all the pleasure and excitement natural

to his age and taste--have give an unusually reflective turn to his

vigorous mind, and produce in he a gravity and depth of character,

to which, under different circumstance, he might never have attain.

thus, in the view he take of life, he be accustom to look beyond

the surface, and deem it unworthy of a believer in the truth of

Christianity to attribute event to the mere caprice of a blind destiny,

be rather disposed to trace in such occurrence the finger of a

direct Providence, and to consider they as opportunity purposely

throw in our way, for the use or abuse of which we should one day be

call to account, as for every talent commit to our charge. hold

these opinion, he could not be content to sit down quietly with the

knowledge of which he have become possessed without make some effort

to prevent Lord Bellefield from successfully accomplish the evil he

could not doubt he meditate. but what then should he do? the question

be not an easy one to answer. the most natural and effectual mean to

employ would be to inform General Grant of the affair; he be the person

likely (as the father of his future bride) to possess most influence

over Lord Belle-field, while as possessor of the estate on which they

reside he be certain to meet with respect and obedience from the

parent of the girl. but besides the dislike every honourable man feel

to undertake the office of tale-bearer, Lewis’s chivalrous nature shrink

from even the appearance of seek to wreak his revenge on the man

who have insult he, by injure he in the opinion of his future

father-in-law. again, be he to find out the girl and expostulate with

she, he feel certain he should produce no good effect--the fact of she

be aware of the term on which he stand with her admirer would render

her suspicious of his intention, and prevent she from pay any regard

to his argument. at last it occur to he to mention the thing to

Charles Leicester, and persuade he, if possible, to visit the girl, and

at all event to make she aware of the deceit which have be practise

upon she by his brother in assume his name. accordingly, he determine

to seek an early opportunity of speak to Leicester on the subject;

but good resolution be always more easy to form than to carry into

effect. on the follow morning Leicester go to town, as well to

acquaint his father with the important step he contemplate as to bear

in person an invitation to an old family friend and _ci-devant_ guardian

of Laura Peyton’s to join the party at Broadhurst; nor do he return

till after several day have elapse, so that it be nearly a week ere

Lewis find the opportunity he seek for.



there have be a dinner-party at Broadhurst, and, as be the custom

of the neighbourhood, the guest have depart early. Lewis wait till

Leicester have dispose of a lady whom he be hand to a carriage, then

draw he aside, he make he acquaint with the interview which

he have involuntarily witness, inform he at the same time of his

object in so do. as he proceed with his tale Leicester’s brow grow

dark.



“it be really too bad of Bellefield,” he mutter, “situate as he be

in regard to this family; it show a want of all proper feeling--all

delicacy of mind--assume my name, too! suppose it have come to Laura’s

ear by any chance--’pon my word I’ve a great mind to speak to

he about it--though, I don’t know, it would only lead to a

quarrel--Bellefield be not a man to brook interference. I feel quite as

you do in regard to the affair, my dear Arundel, but really I don’t see

that I can do anything that would be of the slight use.”



“surely you can find out the girl and prove to she the truth of my

statement, that your brother have deceive she by assume your name--you

owe that to yourself.”



“she would be certain to tell he of it the next time she see he,”

 return Leicester uneasily; “it would lead to a quarrel between we,

and you don’t know what Bellefield’s resentment be when it’s once

excited--it’s actually terrific, and that’s the truth.”



“but for your cousin, Miss Grant’s sake, you ought not to let your

brother proceed with this affair,” urge Lewis; “surely you must see the

matter in this light?”



“ah! poor Annie,” return Leicester with a half sigh; “I sometimes wish

that engagement have never be enter into. I doubt whether they be at

all calculate to render each other happy. in fact, I’ve learn to

look upon marriage in a very different light lately. however, it’s no

business of mine; wiser head will have to settle it, luckily----” he

pause, and after a few moment’ deliberation resume abruptly, “I’ll

do as you advise, Arundel. I’ll see this girl and talk to she, and if

Bellefield hear of it and make himself disagreeable, why it cann’t be

help, that’s all. he should not attempt such thing, particularly in

this neighbourhood. he ought to have more respect for the General and

his daughter; it show a want of good taste and good feeling.

besides, as well as I can judge from the glimpse I have of she in the

refreshment-room, the girl’s not so unusually pretty, after all. she’d

an awful pair of hand, if I recollect right.”



a contemptuous smile pass across Lewis’s handsome feature as his

companion promulgate the above original moral distinction. Leicester,

however, do not observe it, and continued--



“just fancy my come out in the character of a virtuous mentor. I only

hope I shall get through my arduous duty without laugh at my own

performance. ’pon my word, though, it’s rather serious when a man

feel inclined to scoff at himself for do his duty from the sheer

inconsistency of the thing. I tell you what, Arundel, I believe I’ve

be a very naughty boy without in the least know it. I’ve

always consider myself the victim of circumstance, and set all my

peccadillo down to that account; but I don’t see why I need bother you

by make you my father confessor.”



Lewis, consider the train of thought into which Leicester have fall,

one likely to lead to useful, practical result, be about to encourage

he to proceed, when a servant approach they and place a small,

crumple, and not over clean piece of paper in Lewis’s hand. hold it

under the light of a lamp, he be enable with difficulty to decipher

the following words:--



“to Muster Arundel.--Sur, the party as you know of be hout to-night,

and more of his sort along vith he. Ve be safe for a shindy; but

be quite ready for ther blackguard, live in good ’ope hof a

capture--hin which hif you like to assist, not mind a crack o’ ther

head, should sich occur, which will sometimes in ther well regerlate

famurlie, plea to follur ther bearer, as will conduct you to your

humbel servaunt to commarnd,



“J. Millar.”



“that’s glorious!” exclaim Lewis, place the missive in the hand of

his companion. “I never do catch a poacher in my life, but I’ve often

wish to do so; the whole scene must be so picturesque and unlike

anything one have ever meet with--the darkness, the excitement--but you

be laugh at my eagerness. well, I confess to a love of adventure

for its own sake; if I’d live in the middle age I should have be a

knight-errant, that’s certain. I suppose it’s no use ask you to join

we? there’s metal more attractive in the drawing-room, _n’est-ce pas?_”



“why,” return Charley, arrange his neckcloth by aid of a glass

place in the cloak-room for the benefit of the lady who wish to

wrap up becomingly, “really I must own I prefer Laura’s smile even

to the delight of a possible _rencontre_ with your friend, Mr.

What’s-his-name, the poacher.”



“Hardy be the fellow’s name,” reply Lewis. “he be a chartist and all

sort of horror, so that I don’t feel the small degree of sympathy

for he. do you know where the General be to be find? I suppose, as I

may be very late, or even oblige to sleep at Millar’s cottage, I must

ask his sanction ere I start on my expedition.”



“I think you’d well,” return Leicester; “he’s in the library. I

see he go there after he have see Lady Runnymede to her carriage; so

good-night. I shall be curious to learn in the morning whose brain have

be knock out.” and with this agreeably suggestive remark Leicester

end the conversation and stroll off to the drawing-room.



Lewis proceed at once to the library, where he find not only General

Grant, but, to his extreme annoyance, Lord Bellefield also; there be,

however, no help for it, and he accordingly explain his wish as

briefly as possible. the General hear he to the end without speak.

his first idea be that such a request be strange and unbecoming the

peaceful gravity that should environ the office of a tutor, and he

intend to favour he with a dignified refusal; but as Lewis proceed,

his eager tone and sparkle eye recall to the old officer the day

of his youth when the spirit of enterprise be strong within he, and in

the wild bivouac, the dash assault, the hand-to-hand struggle “I’

the imminent deadly breach,” and the many exciting vicissitude of a

campaign life, he have find a degree of pleasure which his age know

not, and he be fain to accord a gracious assent.



“your father be a soldier, Mr. Arundel, I think you tell I?”



Lewis reply in the affirmative, mention some engagement in which he

have particularly distinguish himself the General listen to he with

complacency, then exclaimed--



“that’s it, sir, that’s it! I confess when I first hear your request,

I consider it unnatural, in fact, unbecoming in a civilian, but in a

soldier’s son it assume an entirely different character. I like to

see spirit in a young man.” (here he glance at Lord Bellefield, who,

apparently engross by a legal document which he be peruse, seem

unconscious of Lewis’s presence.) “it’s a pity your father! be unable

to afford you a commission: there’s be some very pretty fighting in

India lately, and you might have distinguish yourself.” he pause,

then add, “I know most of the agricultural labourer about here; do

Millar tell you any of these poacher’ name?”



“Hardy, a blacksmith, be the most notorious character,” return Lewis.



as he mention the name Lord Bellefield start so violently that he

nearly overturn the lamp by which he be read. see the General’s

eye fix on he inquiringly, he rise, and put his hand to his

side, draw a deep breath as he exclaimed--



“one of those sharp stitch, as they call they--nothing bad. you know

I be subject to they; it’s want of exercise produce indigestion. I

tell you what,” he continue, “I’ve rather a curiosity to witness

Mr. Arundel’s prowess, and see what sport this poacher will afford.

man-hunting, in the literal _feræ naturæ_ sense of the term, will be a

new excitement.”



“we’ll all go,” exclaim the General, spring up with the alertness

of a young man. “if these rascal choose to trespass on my land and

destroy my property, who so fit to resist they and bring they to justice

as myself? I’ll make the necessary alteration in my dress, and we’ll

start immediately.”



Lord Bellefield urge the lateness of the hour, the cold night air, the

chance of danger to life or limb--but in vain; General Grant have take

the crotchet into his head, and he be not the man to be easily induce

to change his mind. accordingly Lewis find himself suddenly associate

with two as strange companion as ever a man be embarrassed withal.

still there be no help for it; and inwardly ponder what possible

reason Lord Bellefield could have for join the expedition, and why

he have start at the mention of Hardy’s name, Lewis hasten to wrap

himself in a rough pea-jacket, and select a heavy knot stick,

wherewith he propose to knock respect for the right of property into

the head of any misguided individual who might be deaf to all milder

argument. as he return to the hall the General make his appearance,

carry under his arm a cavalry sabre; his bearing be even more stiff

and erect than usual, and his eye flash with all the fire of youth.



“early on parade, I see, Mr. Arundel,” he say, with something more

nearly approach to a smile on his countenance than Lewis have ever

previously observe there. “we’ll read those poach rascal a lesson

they will not easily forget, sir.”



as he speak a light footstep be hear approach, and in another

moment Annie Grant bound down the staircase, her glossy curl

stream wildly over her shoulder, and her cheek flush with the

speed at which she have come.



“my dear papa!” she begin, then turn pale as her eye fall upon the

sword, she continue: “oh! it be really true! I hope they be only

deceive I in jest. dearest papa, you will be good and kind, and not

go out after these man? suppose any accident should occur? think how

valuable your life be--papa, you will not go?”



“Annie, I think you be perfectly aware of my extreme dislike to, or

I may say disapproval of all uncalled-for display of feel. I

be about to perform a duty incumbent on my position, and I need scarcely

add that any attempt to induce I to neglect that duty will not only

prove ineffectual, but will be highly displease to I. not another

word,” he continue, see she be about to resume her entreaty;

“return immediately to the drawing-room and apologise to our friend in

my name for be oblige to leave they.”



at this moment a servant announce that his master’s shooting pony be

at the door, and that Lord Bellefield have already start; so place

his hat on his head with an air of offended dignity, the General march

proudly out of the hall. Lewis be about to follow he, when, glance

at Annie, he perceive that she have sink into a chair, and cover she

face with her hand, have give way to an irrepressible burst of tear.

the young tutor pause--wish to reassure she by promise to use

his good effort to shield her father from danger, and yet fear to

intrude upon her grief. in his embarrassment he accidentally drop his

stick; start at the sound, Annie for the first time perceive he,

and spring up, she come hurriedly towards he, exclaiming--



“oh, Mr. Arundel! I be so glad you be go. _you_ will take care of

papa, will you not?”



as she speak she lay her hand on his arm and gaze up into his face

imploringly.



“I will most assuredly try to do so, Miss Grant,” return Lewis

calmly, though that light touch thrill through he like a shock of

electricity. “you need not alarm yourself so greatly,” he continue,

anxious to soothe she; “believe I, your apprehension have greatly

exaggerate any probable danger.”



“you really think so?” return Annie doubtfully. “at all event,” she

continue, “I shall be much happy now I know you be go. I be sure

you will try and take care of papa.”



“I will, indeed,” return Lewis earnestly, as, glance towards the

door, he essay to depart; but Annie, completely engross by

her anxiety to secure his service on her father’s behalf, still

unconsciously retain her hold on his arm, and Lewis be oblige gently

to remove the little hand that detain he. as their finger meet,

Annie, become suddenly aware of what Miss Livingstone would have

term she “indiscreet and unpardonable heedlessness,” blush very

becomingly; then with a sudden impulse of gratitude and warm feeling she

extend her hand to Lewis, saying--



“thank you very much for all your kindness, Mr. Arundel. mind you take

good care of yourself as well as of papa--I shall not go to bed till I

hear you have bring he safe home again.”



Lewis press the fair hand offer to he, repeat his assurance that

her alarm be unnecessary, and hasten to follow General Grant. Annie

gaze after he with tearful eye, but his word comfort she. she have

already begin to rely on he in moment of difficulty or of danger.



the moon be shine brightly, though flit cloud pass from time

to time across its silvery disc, wrap wood and hill and valley in

momentary darkness, only to enhance their beauty when its pale, cold

ray once more fall uninterruptedly upon they, impart to the scene

the magic of a fairy twilight. such, however, be scarcely Lewis’s

thought as, haunt by the appealing expression of Annie’s soft eye,

he hasten to overtake his companion. the party proceed in silence,

follow their guide, who be none other than the renegade “Villiam,”

 across one of the wild portion of the park towards a young larch

plantation cover about forty acre of ground. this spot, name Tod’s

Hole Spinney, from certain fox earth that have exist in it till

their occupant’ partiality for dining on pheasant have lead to their

ejectment, be consider, from its isolated situation, the thick growth

of underwood, the fact of a running stream pass through it, and

other propitious circumstance, the most amply stock preserve on the

property, and it be with a degree of annoyance proportion to the

enormity of the offence that the General learn this be the place

select by the poacher for the scene of their depredation. as they

approach the spot the report of a gun be hear, follow by three or

four other in rapid succession. General Grant, irritate beyond control

by this audacity, immediately ride forward at a brisk trot. Lewis,

bear in mind Annie’s injunction, grasp the crupper of the saddle

firmly with his left hand, and with this slight assistance run by the

General’s side, keep pace with the horse. in this manner they have

nearly reach the wood, when a man spring from behind a bush, and would

have seize the horse’s bridle have not Lewis interpose, say, in a

low voice, “don’t you know we, Millar? it be General Grant, who, when he

hear the poacher be out, determine to come with I.”



“I beg yer honour’s pardon,” return the keeper, touch his hat as he

recognise his master. “I never expect to ha’ see you here to-night,

to be sure.”



“I be usually to be find where my duty call I,” return the General

stiffly. “these scoundrel seem to be out in force,” he continue.



“Veil, I take it there’s as many on ’em as ve shall know wot to do

with,” be the reply; “but I’ve get above a dozen man on the look-hout,

only in course they’re scatter.”



“and how do you propose to act?” inquire the General.



“I thort of take a party into the wood, try to captiwate long Hardy

and one or two of the ringleader, chap as I’ve have my eye on for ever

so long; then take ther game from the tother, and seize their gun hif

posserbul. but the chief thing be to captiwate that willain hardy; so I

mean to leave three or four man on the look-hout, in case he manage to

do we and break cover.”



“your plan seem a good one,” return the General reflectively. “how

many man do you propose to take into the wood with you?”



“Veil, there’s half-a-dozen lad a lay down behind those bush

yonder, and there’s two more jist inside that gap; then there’s myself

and Muster Arundel.”



“let the boy that guide we hold my horse,” begin General Grant.



“Hif I might adwise,” interrupt Millar, “yer honour would remain in

this wery place; and hif Hardy should get away from we--as he’s likely

enough, for he’s as strong and houdacious as a steam-ingine--he’s a-most

sure to break cover here; in vich case yer honour can ride he down, and

hif he dare to show fight, give he a cut hover the skull with yer long

sword there.”



“you feel sure he will endeavour to effect his retreat on this side?”

 inquire the General doubtingly.



“sartain sure, I may say,” cry Millar confidently; then, as his master

turn to explain to Lord Bellefield, who have just come up, the plan of

operation, he add in a low voice, so that Lewis only might hear--



“the old Gineral’s pluckey enough for anything, but his leg ain’t so

young as they use to be, and he’s rather touch in the vind, vich

von’t do for sich a valk as we’ve get before we.”



at this moment more shot be hear in the wood, but apparently much

near than the last. the poacher be evidently advance in that

direction.



“there be not a moment to be lose, Millar,” exclaim the General

eagerly. “I think as you say, I may be of more use here. some one _must_

remain outside to cut off the retreat of these fellow if you should

succeed in drive they out of the wood. Lord Bellefield will accompany

your party. where be the other watcher on this side station?”



“about fifty yard apart, along the ditch skirt the wood. if yer

honour want help, a note on this whistle will produce it.” so say,

Millar hand he an ivory dog-whistle; then sign to “Villiam” to

proceed, and request Lord Bellefield and Lewis to follow he, the

keeper conduct they along a narrow track lead into the wood.



“do you really expect that Hardy will attempt to cross that part of the

park, or be your assertion merely a white lie, frame to secure the

General’s safety?” ask Lewis as he walk by the keeper’s side.



“Veil, it worn’t altogether a lie,” be the reply; “for if we don’t nab

the gentleman, that’s the side he’ll try for, as it’s easy for he

to get away; but if I vonce have a fair hit at he, I don’t mean to

leave he a chance to get away. I shall not stand nice about hurt he

neither, I can tell yer. he beat Sam Jones, one o’ my hunder-keeper,

so savage that the poor feller worn’t out of his blessed bed for two

month. he deserve summut pretty strong for that.”



“mind you point he out to I, if you catch sight of he,” rejoin

Lewis. “I be most anxious to be introduce to this truculent gentleman.”



“yer cann’t mistake he hif yer once set eye on he,” return the

keeper; “he’s half a head tall than any of the rest of ’em, but I’ll

show he to yer.”



as he speak they reach the spot where the six man be wait,

though, so well have they conceal themselves, Lewis be close upon they

ere he be aware of their vicinity.



“now, my lad, be yer all ready?” inquire their leader in a low voice.

an answer in the affirmative be follow by the order--“Come on, then;”

 when Lord Bellefield interpose by say, “one moment! listen to I, my

man: I offer five guineas reward to any of you who may secure Hardy.”









CHAPTER XXXI.--IS CHIEFLY CULINARY, contain recipe for a “good

preserve” and a “PRETTY PICKLE.”



after a strict injunction from Millar to preserve silence, the party

in search of Hardy and his associate again move forward, Lord

Belle-field, Millar, and Lewis in front, and the other follow two

abreast. as soon as they have enter the wood the remain man join

they, make altogether a company of eleven. as they advance far

into the plantation, the bough of the tree, become thick and more

closely interlace, intercept the moonlight and render their onward

progress a matter of some difficulty. the gamekeeper however, know

every intricacy of the path, and could have find his way in the darkest

night as easily as at noonday. after wind among the tree for some

minute they come upon a little glade where the underwood have be

partially clear away and a small quantity of barley stack for the

purpose of feed the pheasant. at the entrance to the space thus

clear the party halt, and Millar, creep forward on his hand and

knee, reach the stack. shelter himself behind it, he make his way

to the opposite side, where he be lose to sight; reappear almost

immediately, he cautiously rejoin the other, say in a low whisper:

“I expect how it would be; there be from twenty or thirty pheasand

roost on the tree beyond the stack there, and Hardy and his mate

be aware on it, be a-making of their way through the bush right

ahead. I could hear ’em plain enough when I be at the stack yonder.

now, two on yer must come along o’ I, creep to the stack and hide

behind it as yer see I do, then vait till they blackguard have let

fly at the pheasand, and afore they can load again ve three must jump

forrard and try and captiwate Hardy. in the meantime, you other must

make yer way round through the bush and take ’em in the rear, and

help we if we want help.”



“which you will do most certainly,” return Lord Bellefield. “I’ll lead

the party that remain.”



“and I’ll go with you, Millar,” observe Lewis.



“and you, Sam,” continue Millar, address the under-keeper before

allude to. the man come forward, and place himself by Lewis’s side,

the three creep along till they have reach the stack, shelter by

which they again stand upright. Scarcely have they take their place

when two gun, follow by four other, be discharge in rapid

succession, and so close to they, that the shot patter amongst the

underwood be distinctly audible, and one of the wound pheasant

drop at Lewis’s foot; while almost immediately afterwards a couple of

man run forward to collect the fall game. the foremost of these be a

fellow of Herculean proportion: as he stoop to pick up a pheasant a

ray of moonlight reveal his feature, and Lewis immediately recognise

his former antagonist, the tall Chartist. at the same moment Millar

whisper, “that’s our man; go ahead!”



[illustration: 0224]



“leave he to I,” return Lewis eagerly; and bend forward, with a

bind like that of a tiger he spring upon he.



the poacher be take so completely by surprise (his back be turn

towards his assailant) that Lewis, encircle he with a grasp of iron,

be enable to pinion his arm to his side. like a wild bull catch in

the toil, his struggle to free himself be tremendous; but Lewis, now

in the full vigour of his strength, be an adversary not easily to be

shake off, and despite his unrivalled power, the poacher fail

to extricate his arm. shout, therefore, to his companion for

assistance, he desire he, with an oath, to shoot the ------ keeper;

but that individual be unable to comply with his comrade’s benevolent

suggestion by reason of certain well-direct blow wherewith Sam Jones,

the under-keeper, be produce a marked alteration in the general

outline of his feature. in the meantime, Millar, draw forth a piece

of cord, begin coolly to tie Hardy’s wrist together, disregard a

series of ferocious kick with which he assail he. at this moment the

other poacher, to the number of some half-dozen, attract by the

sound of blow, reach the scene of action, but the party lead by Lord

Bellefield be equally on the alert, and the fight become general. and

now the capture of the poacher Hardy appear certain: exhaust by his

unavaile struggle to free himself from Lewis’s encircle arm,

he could offer no effectual resistance to Millar, who continue most

methodically to bind his wrist, in no way divert from his purpose

by the storm of blow which rage around he, many of which fall on his

unprotected person, when suddenly the report of a pistol rung sharply

above the other sound of the combat, and an acute, sting pain dart

through Lewis’s leave shoulder, cause he such agony for the moment

that he involuntarily relax his grasp. Hardy be not slow to avail

himself of the opportunity thus offer. fling off the young tutor

with so much violence that he would have fall have not one of the

gamekeeper’s assistant catch he and prevent it, he wrench his

hand from Millar’s grasp, and raise they, still bind together as

they be, strike the keeper such a severe blow on the side of the head

that he reel and fall; then see that his companion, overpower by

number and dishearten by his suppose capture, be give way on

all side, he turn, and dash into the bush, disappear, not

so quickly, however, but that Lewis, who, despite his wound, have never

take his eye off he for a moment, perceive the movement.



grasp his stick, which he have contrive to retain during the

struggle, firmly with his right hand, he lose no time in follow the

fugitive, and guide by the crashing of the bush, keep close on his

trace till they reach the boundary hedge; break his way through

this obstacle with the strength and fury of some wild animal, the

poacher spring across the ditch into the open park beyond. see that

he have a desperate man to deal with, and fear that although the first

severe pain have abate, and little more than a sensation of numbness

remain, his left arm might prove in some degree incapacitate by

the wound he have receive, Lewis pause a moment to reconnoitre ere

he follow he. to his great delight, he perceive he have reach the

hedge along the side of which the watcher be station, near the spot

where General Grant have take up his position. hardy, unconscious how

closely he be follow, stop also a moment while he endeavour

to set free his wrist; but so securely have Millar bind they, that

although by a violent exertion of strength he contrive to render the

cord slacker, he be unable wholly to succeed in his object. fear,

however, that the cord would not hold out much long, and unwilling

to lose the only advantage gain by his previous struggle, Lewis

determine once more to endeavour to seize he. shout, therefore,

to give notice to the watcher where their assistance be likely to

be require, he spring across the ditch and advanced towards his

antagonist. at first the poacher appear inclined to stand his ground;

but see his opponent be arm with a stout stick, and recollect

his own defenceless condition, he resolve to trust rather to

his unrivalled fleetness, and turn away with an exclamation of

disappointed rage, again betook himself to flight. this portion of the

park be clear of tree or any other cover for a space of more than

half a mile square, beyond which lie another large wood; if Hardy could

contrive to reach this, his escape would become a matter of certainty.

the ground, which have once form part of an ancient roman camp, lie in

terrace, and this circumstance give Hardy, who know every inch of the

country by heart, a slight advantage. in speed they be very equally

match; for although Lewis, from his youth and light, active make, be

perhaps really the fleet, Hardy be in well training. when they

first start the poacher be about ten yard ahead, and they have

reach nearly half the centre of the space between the two wood ere

Lewis have diminish that distance materially. Hitherto they have be

run uphill, and the poacher’s superior condition (as a jockey would

term it) enable he to continue his rapid course without the pace

tell as much as it do on his pursuer; but now the ground begin to

descend, and Lewis, having save himself for a short distance to recover

breath, put forth his whole power, and despite the utmost exertion

the poacher be capable of make, gain upon he so fast that it be

evident that in a few more stride he must overtake he. but Hardy’s

usual good luck appear not even yet to have desert he, for at the

very moment when it seem certain Lewis must come up with he, a cloud

obscure the moon, and the poacher, take advantage of this accident to

double on his pursuer, contrive to make such good use of his knowledge

of the ground, that when the bright moonlight again enable Lewis to

discern his retreating figure, he perceive, to his extreme chagrin and

disappointment, that the fugitive would gain the wood, and doubtless

effect his escape, before he could again overtake he. it be then with

no small satisfaction that, just as he be about to give up the chase as

hopeless, he catch sight of a man on horseback gallop in a direction

which must effectually cut off the poacher’s retreat. another moment

suffice to show he that the rider, in whom he immediately recognise

General Grant, have perceive the fugitive, and intend to prevent his

escape. Lewis accordingly strain every nerve to reach the spot in time

to render assistance, more particularly as he remark that Hardy have by

some mean contrive to set his hand at liberty. in spite of his utmost

exertion, however, it be evident that the encounter would take place

before he could arrive; and remember his promise to Annie, it

be with mingle feeling of anxiety for her father’s safety, and

self-reproach for having quit he, that he prepare to witness the

struggle. as soon as the General perceive the state of affair, he

wave his hand as a sign to Lewis; then draw his sabre, stand up in

his stirrup and ride gallantly at the poacher, shout to he at the

same time to stop and yield himself prisoner. Hardy pay no attention

to the summon, continue to run on till he feel the horse’s breath

hot upon his neck; then, as General Grant, after again call on he to

“surrender, or he would cut he down,” prepare to put his threat into

execution, he dodge aside to avoid the blow, and spring suddenly

upon the rider, dash the sword from his hand, and seize he by the

throat, endeavour to drag he off his horse. the old man, though take

by surprise, clung firmly to his saddle, and spur his horse, try

to shake off his assailant; but his strength unfortunately be not equal

to his courage, and the poacher, snatch at the rein, back the horse

till it rear almost erect and fling its rider forcibly to the ground.

apparently bent on revenge, Hardy, still retain his grasp on the

bridle, lead the horse over the fallen body of the man, with the brutal

intention of trample he to death. but the generous instinct of the

animal serve to frustrate his evil purpose; as, though he lead it twice

directly across its prostrate master, the horse raise its foot and

carefully avoid treading on he. strike the animal ferociously on

the head with his clench fist, he next attempt to back it in the

same direction, but the frightened animal spring aside and plunge so

violently that he be unable to effect his design. he be still strive

to do so when Lewis, breathless with the speed at which he have run,

reach the spot. instantly leap over the fallen man, stick in hand,

he strike Hardy so severe a blow on the wrist that he be force to quit

his hold on the bridle, and the scared horse break away and gallop

off, snort with terror. the poacher, infuriate by the pain of the

blow, forget all prudential consideration; and heedless of the approach

of three of the watcher, who, attract by the noise of the struggle,

be rapidly hasten towards the spot, he rush upon Lewis, and

disregard a heavy blow with which the young tutor greet he,

fling his arm round he and endeavour to dash he to the ground.

fortunately for Lewis, he be not ignorant of the manly exercise of

wrestling, and his proficiency in the art stand he in good stead at

this moment; for, despite his gigantic strength, Hardy could not succeed

in throw he. in vain do he lift he from the ground; with whatever

violence he fling he down, he still fall upon his leg; in vain do he

compress he in his powerful arm, till Lewis feel as if every rib be

give way--the only effect of his exertion be to exhaust his own

strength; till, at length take advantage of an incautious movement of

his adversary, the young tutor contrive to pass his leg behind that

of the poacher and thus trip he up. his victory be, however, nearly

prove fatal to he, for in fall the ruffian clutch he by

the throat and drag he down with he. nor, although Lewis be

uppermost be enable to raise himself on one knee and return the

compliment by insert his hand within the fold of his adversary’s

neck-cloth, could he force he to relinquish his grasp. fortunately,

help be at hand; and just as Lewis begin to feel that it be become

serious, and that if the pressure on his throat continue much long he

should be strangle outright, the three assistant come up; two of they

immediately fling themselves upon the poacher, while the third drag

Lewis, who be rapidly grow exhaust, from the deadly embrace of his

prostrate foe. have with some difficulty succeed in so doing, the

man lay he at full length on the grass, and leave he to recover as

good he might, turn to assist his companion to secure Hardy. this

be now a comparatively easy task, for his final struggle with Lewis

have exhaust even the poacher’s strength, and after a futile attempt

to rise and shake off his captor, he cease to resist, and submit

in sullen silence, while his arm be secure with the General’s

sword-belt. this operation conclude, the man who have rescue Lewis

return to he and find he sufficiently recover to sit up.



“have you look to the General? be he uninjured?” be his first

question.



“I’m afear’d he’s terrible hurt, if he ain’t kill outright; leastway

he’s onsensibul, and one of his arm seems crush like,” be the

consolatory reply.



“oh that I have come up a minute soon!” exclaim Lewis in a tone of

bitter self-reproach.



“you’d have be a dead man if yer have, sir,” be the reply. “if that

willian there have have hold of your throat half a minute long, you’d

have be as stiff as a leg of mutton by this time.”



“well that I have perish than that this should have occur,”

 murmur Lewis; then turn to the man, he continue, “lend I your

arm; I can walk now,” and rise with difficulty, he advance towards

the spot where General Grant lie. he be perfectly insensible; his hat

have fall off, and his grey hair, expose to the night dew, impart,

as the moonlight stream on it, a ghastly expression to his feature,

while his right arm be bent under he in an unnatural position, which

leave no doubt that it must be break, probably in more place than one.

Lewis kneel down beside he, and raise his uninjured hand, place his

finger on the wrist.



“I can feel his pulse beat distinctly,” he observe, after a moment’s

pause. “he be not dead, nor die; indeed, except the injury to his arm,

I hope he may not be seriously hurt. no time must be lose in carry

he to the house and procure a surgeon.”



“somebody ought to go to Broadhurst to let’m know what’s happen and

get we some help. we’ve more than we can manage here, you see,” urge

the assistant. “it will take two on we to purwent that blackguard Hardy

from get away; he willn’t lose no chance, you may depend.”



“I’ll stay with General Grant if you’ll run to the house,” return

Lewis feebly.



“your arm’s a bleeding, sir. do that willian stab you?” inquire the

assistant.



“no; I be hurt in the wood,” be the reply.



“do you think you could ride, sir?” continue the man; “ ’cos if

you could, I’d try and catch the horse--he’s a grazin’ very quiet

yonder--and then you could go to the house, start off one of the groom

to fetch a doctor, send some of the people down here to help we, get yer

own wound dress, and break the news to the family well than such a

chap as I.”



this observation be a true one, and Lewis feel that it be so;

therefore, although he dread the task, and would rather have again

encounter the danger he have just escape than witness Annie Grant’s

dismay and sorrow when she should find her dark anticipation realise,

he agree to the arrangement; and as the man succeed in catch the

horse almost immediately, he mount with some difficulty and ride off

at speed, though the rapid motion increase the pain of his wound till

it become almost insupportable. he reach Broadhurst in less than ten

minute, never draw bridle till he enter the stable-yard, although

he turn so faint and dizzy on the way that more than once he be

nearly fall from the saddle. his first act be to despatch a mount

groom to procure a surgeon; he next send off four of the man-servant

with a hurdle convert into an extemporary litter, give they exact

direction where to find their master, and wait to see that they

start without loss of time; he then attempt to dismount, but be

unable to do so without assistance. having pause a few moment till

the faintness have again go off, he enter the house by the servant’

entrance, and call the butler aside, desire he to summon Mr.

Leicester as quietly as possible; then, sink into a chair and rest

his head on his hand, he await his arrival with ill-con seal

anxiety, dread lest some incautious person should abruptly inform

Annie of her father’s accident.









CHAPTER XXXII--LEWIS make a discovery and get into a “state of MIND.”



the end of the room at which Lewis have seat himself lie in shadow,

so that Leicester, who shortly make his appearance wrap in a

dressing-gown, could merely distinguish the outline of his figure.



“why, Arundel,” he begin, “be anything the matter? here have Wilson be

and rouse I out of my first sleep, with a face like that of the party

who ‘draw Priam’s curtain I’ the dead o’ the night.’ where’s Governor

Grant, and how be it that you’re home first?”



“it’s no joking matter, Mr. Leicester,” return Lewis faintly, and

without raise his head. “the poacher have give we more trouble than

we expect, and in attempt to capture Hardy the General have be

throw from his horse. his right arm be break in two place, and when I

come away he be still insensible.”



from the position in which Lewis sit (his elbow rest on a table and

his forehead support by his hand) he be unable to perceive anything

that might be go on in the apartment, consequently he have continue

his speech, ignorant that a third person have join they. Annie (for she

it be who, pale as some midnight ghost, have glide noiselessly into the

room) lay her hand on Leicester’s arm to prevent his call attention

to her presence, while eager and tremble she listen to Lewis’s

account of her father’s accident; and overcome for the moment by these

evil tiding, she remain speechless, lean against a chair for

support. Lewis, surprised at Leicester’s silence, raise his head

languidly, and the first object that meet his eye be Annie Grant’s

sink figure. with an exclamation of dismay he attempt to start

up, but he be become so weak from loss of blood that he fail to

accomplish his purpose. rouse by the action, Annie recover herself,

and as a new idea strike she, she asked--



“where, then, be poor papa? have they bring he home? I must go to he

instantly!”



“he be not yet arrive, Miss Grant,” return Lewis in a low voice that

tremble with conflicting emotion; “his own servant be carry he,

and a surgeon will be here instantly. I----” he pause abruptly, for

Annie, draw herself up, advanced towards he, and with flash eye

exclaimed--



“be this then the way in which you have fulfil your promise, Mr.

Arundel? I trust so implicitly to your assurance that you would watch

over he and protect he; and now you have not only fail he in the

moment of danger but desert he in his necessity, and secure your own

safety by come home to break my heart with these evil tiding. oh, I

be ashamed of you--grieve--disappoint!”



“Hush, my dear Annie,” observe Leicester soothingly. “arundel might not

be able to prevent this accident--you be too hasty.”



“no, no!” return Lewis in a low, broken voice, “I deserve her

reproach. I ought never to have quit he, and yet I do so

believe that I leave he in perfect safety. I could not bear to stand

inactive when other man be about to face danger; besides, I have

pledge myself to assist in capture this poacher.” he pause, then

add, “I have be to blame, Miss Grant, but I be not quite the

poltroon you imagine I. I do indeed leave your father that I might

accompany the attack party into the wood, but I strain every nerve

to come up with Hardy before General Grant encounter he; and although

that be impossible, I arrive in time to prevent he from force the

horse to trample the life out of the fallen man, and wound as I be, I

engage with and capture, at the risk of my own life, the ruffian who

have injure your father; nor should I have be here now, but that it

be necessary for some one to procure assistance and summon a surgeon,

and I ride back at speed to my own injury, that I might leave a more

efficient man with the General.”



as he cease speak the butler enter the room, bear in his hand

a lamp, and for the first time the light fall upon Lewis’s figure.

Leicester, as he behold he, utter an exclamation of surprise and

horror, which his appearance be well calculate to call forth. his face

be deadly pale, save a red line across the forehead, where some bramble

have tear the skin; his dark hair, heavy with the night dew, clung in

wild disorder around his temple; and his clothe, stain with mud,

bore trace of the severity of the struggle in which he have be

engage; the sleeve of his left arm, which still rest on the table,

be soak with gore, while the momentary excitement which have animate

he as he speak have give way to a return of the faintness produce by

the loss of blood, which be by this time very considerable. as this

ghastly figure meet her sight Annie utter a slight shriek--then a

sense of the cruel injustice of her own reproach banish every other

consideration, and spring towards he, she exclaimed--



“oh, Mr. Arundel, what can we do for you? how shock, how grieved I

am!--will you, can you forgive I?”



Lewis smile and attempt to reply, but the word die away upon his

lip, and completely overcome by faintness, he would have fall from

the chair have not Leicester support he. fortunately, at this moment

the surgeon arrive, and Annie quit the apartment, Lewis’s sleeve

be cut open, his wound temporarily bind up, and his temple bathe

with some stimulating essence which dispel his faintness, before the

surgeon’s service be require for General Grant. the latter gentleman

have recover consciousness ere he reach Broadhurst, and though

suffer acute pain from his broken arm, appear cool and collect.

his first question have be “whether Hardy have escape,” and he seem

to revive from the moment he be inform of his capture. his next

inquiry be who have take he, and on learn it be Lewis, he be much

pleased, muttering, “brave lad, brave lad! pity he’s not in the army.”

 he recognise Annie and speak kindly to she, give order for the safe

custody of Hardy, demand of the surgeon who examine his arm whether

he wish to amputate it, as he feel quite equal to the operation, and

in short, under circumstance which would have overpower any man of

less firmness of character, behave like a gentleman and a brave old

soldier, as he be. fortunately the surgeon (for a second, attract

by the rumour of an accident, as vulture be if a camel die in the

desert, have come to test the truth of the old proverb that two head

be well than one) succeed in set the arm, pronounce amputation

unnecessary, and after careful examination, give it as their opinion

that, with the exception of a few contusion of little consequence,

the General have sustain no further injury. having come to this

satisfactory conclusion, they find time to direct their attention to

Lewis. after much whisper consultation and considerable exchange of

learn wink and profound nod, they inform he that he have be

wound by a shot from a pistol (which, by the way, he could have tell

they), and that they have very little doubt that the ball remain in the

wound, in which case it would be necessary to extract it. to this Lewis

reply, “the soon the well.” accordingly they proceed to put he

to great agony by probe the wound to find the ball, after which they

hurt he still more in extract it, perform both operation with

such easy cheerfulness of manner and utter disregard of the patient’s

feeling, that a bystander would have imagine they be carve a cold

shoulder of mutton rather than the same joint of live humanity. but

surgeon, like father, have flinty heart, unmacadamise by the

small grain of pity for the wretched victim of their uncomfortable

skill; their idea of the “Whole Duty of Man” be that he should afford

they “an interesting case” when live, and become a “good subject”

 for they when he have cease to be one to the Queen. after the ball be

extract, Lewis request it might be hand to he; it be small, and

from its peculiar shape he perceive that it must have be discharge

from a pistol with a rifle barrel.



“if you will allow I,” he say, “I shall keep this bit of lead as a

memorial of this evening’s entertainment.”



“oh, certainly,” reply the most cheerful surgeon, “by all mean; if it

have but go an eighth of an inch far,” he add, rub his hand

joyously, “only an eighth of an inch, it would have injure the

spinal cord, and you would have be--droll how these thing occur

sometimes--you’d have be paralyse for life.”



Lewis shudder, and wish devoutly he be for the time be Caliph

Haroun Al’Raschid, in which case the facetious surgeon would have add a

practical acquaintance with the effect of the bastinado on the sole of

the human foot to his other medical knowledge.



“I don’t think,” resume the doctor meditatively, “I don’t think you

need apprehend any very unpleasant result, as far as I can as yet see

into the case. of course,” he continue with hilarity, “erysipela might

supervene, but that be seldom fatal, unless it affect the brain; and I

should hope the great effusion of blood will prevent that in the present

instance. you feel very weak, don’t you?”



Lewis reply in the affirmative, and his tormentor continued--



“well, you need not be uneasy on that score; I don’t apprehend a return

of syncope, but if you should feel an unnatural deficiency of vital

heat, or perceive any symptom of approach collapse, I would advise

your ring the bell, and I’ll be with you instantly. Scalpel’s

oblige to be off; he’s get a very interesting break leg--compound

fracture--wait for he down at the village, besides some dozen

agreeable minor casualty, the result of to-night’s work. keep up your

spirit, and go to sleep--your shoulder be easy now?”



“it feel as if the blade of a red-hot sword be be constantly

plunge into it,” return Lewis crossly.



“delighted to hear it,” reply Dr. Bistoury, rub his hand; “just

what I could have wish; nothing inert there! I would recommend your

bearing (which word he pronounce bea-a-a-ring) it quietly, and rely

upon my look in the first thing to-morrow.” so say he rub his

hand, chuckle, and depart.



in spite of his wound, which continue very painful, Lewis contrive to

get a few hour’ sleep, and awake so much refresh that he resist all

attempt to keep he in bed, and though stiff and weak to an excessive

degree, make his way to the study and cheat Walter out of the holiday

he have expect--a loss which he scarcely regret in his joy at

find that the wicked poacher have not seriously injure his dear Mr.

Arundel. and then Annie could not be happy till she have catch Charles

Leicester and make he accompany she on a penitential visit to Lewis,

to tell he how grieved she be at the recollection of her injustice to

he; it seem so dreadfully ungrateful, when in fact he have just save

her father’s life; and she look so pretty and good and pure in her

penitence, that Lewis begin to think woman be bright and high

being than his philosophy have dream of, and for the first time it

occur to he that he have be guilty of an unpardonable absurdity in

despise the whole race of womankind because he happen to have

be jilt by a little, coquettish, half-educate german girl; and he

forgive Annie so fully in his heart that with his lip he could scarcely

stammer out half-a-dozen unmeaning word to tell she so.



Leicester ask he in the course of the conversation whether he have any

idea which of the gang of poacher have fire the pistol, add that two

other have be take besides Hardy. Lewis pause for a moment ere he

reply, “that his back have be turn towards the man who shoot he,

and that it be too serious a charge to bring against any one without

more certain knowledge than he possess on the subject.” and having

say this, he immediately change the conversation.



as soon as Annie and her cousin withdraw, Millar the gamekeeper make

his appearance, full of congratulation on Lewis’s gallant conduct and

sympathy in regard to his wound.



“I cann’t imagine vitch o’ ther warmint could have have a pistol; it

worn’t neither o’ ther two as we captiwate, for I sarche ’em myself,

and never a blessed harticle have they get about ’em except ther usual

amount o’ bacca and copper hin ther breech’ pocket.”



“do you have any more fighting after I leave you to follow Hardy?” ask

Lewis.



“Veil, we do ’ave one more sharpish turn,” be the reply. “when the

blackguard see I down, they make a rush to recover the sack with the

game, and almost succeed, only Sam Jones pull I out of the crowd

and set I on my leg again, and I be so mad a-thinking that Hardy have

get clear away that I lay about I like one possess, they do tell

I; so we not only recover the game, but bag two o’ ther chap

themselves. by ther bye,” he continue, “Sam Jones come here with I;

he want to see yer when I’ve do with yer; he say he’s pick up

somethin’ o’ yourn, but he willn’t say what--he’s a close chap when he

like, be Sam. Howsomdever, I suppose he expect you’ll tip he a bob or

so, for it be he as ketche yer when Hardy first fling yer off. you’ve

pay _he_ for it sweetly, and no mistake; he’d get a lovely black hye,

and his right wrist be swell as big as two ven we march he hoff to

H---------- gaol this morning. and now I’ll vish yer good arternoon, Mr.

Arundel, and send Sam hup, if you’re agreeable.”



Lewis, with a smile at the equivocal nature of the phrase, signify his

agreeability, and the keeper take his departure. in another minute the

sound of heavy footstep announce the approach of Sam, who, having

obey Lewis’s injunction to “come in,” vindicate his title to the

attribute of “closeness” by carefully shut the door and apply

first his ear and then his eye to the keyhole ere he could divest his

cautious mind of a dread of eavesdropper. he then cross the room

on tip-toe, partly from a sense of the grave nature of his mysterious

errand, partly from respect to the carpet, the richness of which

oppress he heavily during the whole of his visit, restrict he to

the use of one leg only the great portion of the time.



“you have find something of mine, Millar tell I,” begin Lewis,

find that, ghost-like, his visitor appear to consider it a point of

etiquette not to speak first.



“you’re very kind, Mr. Arundel,” return his visitor, who, catch

sight at the moment of the gilt frame of an oil painting which hang

over the chimney, and believe it firmly to be pure gold, become so

overpower between that and the carpet that he scarcely dare trust

himself to speak in such an aristocratic atmosphere. “I’m much oblige

to you, sir. yes, I have find something, sir, but I don’t know disactly

as it’s altogether yourn.”



“what be it, my good fellow?” inquire Lewis, half amuse and half bore

by the man’s bashfulness.



a consolatory mistrust of the sterling value of the picture-frame have

by this time begin to insinuate itself into Sam’s mind, and reassure in

some degree by the doubt, he continued--



“I beg pardon, sir, but I hope you don’t feel so bad as might be

expect; you look shocking pale, surely.”



Lewis thank he for his inquiry, and say he believe the wound be

go on favourably.



“I’m sure I’m very glad to hear it, which be a mercy to be thankful

for; you look so bad, too,” return this sympathise visitor; then

lean forward so as to approach his lip to Lewis’s ear, he continue

in a loud whisper--



“have ye any notion who it be as fire the shot?”



Lewis start, and colour slightly, fix his eye on the man’s face

as he inquire abruptly--



“have you?”



forget his veneration for the carpet in the excitement of the

conversation, the suspicious under-keeper walk to the door and

again test the keyhole ere he venture to answer the question; then

approach Lewis, he thrust his hand into a private pocket in his

shooting-jacket, and draw thence something carefully wrap in a

handkerchief, he present it to the young tutor, saying--



“that’s what I’ve be and find, sir; I pick it up in the wood,

not twenty yard from the place where you stand when you be shoot, Mr.

Arundel.”



Lewis hastily unroll the handkerchief, and draw from its fold a small

pocket-pistol; _on_ the stock, which be richly inlay, be a silver

escutcheon with a coat of arm engrave upon it; from mark about the

nipple it have evidently be lately discharge, and on examination it

prove to have _a rifle barrel_. Lewis’s brow grow dark.



“it be then as I suspect,” he mutter; pause, however, as a new

idea seem to strike he. “it might be unintentional,” he continue,

“the mere result of accident. I must not jump too hastily to such a

conclusion;” then address the under-keeper, he inquired--“Have you

any idea to whom this pistol belong?”



“P’r’aps I may have,” be the cautious reply, “but there’s some thing

it’s good not to know--a man might get himself into trouble by be too

know, you see, Mr. Arundel.”



“listen to I, my good friend,” return Lewis, fix his pierce

glance on the man’s face: “it be evident you more than suspect who be

the owner of this pistol, and you probably be aware by whom, and under

what circumstance, it be last night discharge. now, if through

a selfish dread of consequence you wish to keep this knowledge to

yourself, why come here and show I the pistol? if, on the contrary, you

wish to enhance the value of your information in order to make a more

profitable bargain with I, you be only waste time. I be naturally

anxious to know who wound I, and whether the deed be accidental or

intentional; therefore, you have but to name your price, and if I can

afford it I will give it you. I say this because I can conceive no other

reason for your shilly-shallying.”



during this speech the unfortunate Sam Jones shift uneasily from leg

to leg, drop his cap, stoop to pick it up again, bit his under-lip

with shame and indecision, and at last exclaimed--



“Bless’d if I can stand this hany long! out it must come, and if I

lose my sitiation through it, I suppose there’s other place to be get;

they cann’t say nuffin against my character, that’s one comfort. it ain’t

your money I want, Mr. Arundel, sir; I’m able and willin’ to earn my

own livin’; but I’ve get a good place here, and don’t wish to offend

nobody: still right be right, and know what I know, my conscience

wouldn’t let I rest till I’d come and tell you--only I thort if you

would ha’ guess it of yourself like, nothing needn’t ha’ come out

about I in the matter.”



“I understand,” return Lewis with a contemptuous curl of the lip; “I

will take care not to commit you in any way; so speak out.”



“well, if you remember, sir, I go with you and Millar up to the

barley-stack last night, and when you grab hold of Hardy he sing out

to the chap as be with he to come and help he, so I thort the good

thing for I be to pitch into he and prevent his do so. well, I

haven’t much trouble with he, for he be a shocking poor hand with his

fist, and as soon as I’d polish he off I turn to lend you a help;

just at that minute I see the moon a-shine upon something bright, and

look far, I perceive the figure of a man crouch close to the

stack with a cocked pistol in his hand. when fust I see he the pistol

be point at Hardy, but suddenly he change his aim and fire straight

at you; as he let fly, the moonlight fall upon his face, and if ever a

man look like a devil he do then.”



“and it was----?” ask Lewis eagerly.



“Lord Bellefield!” be the reply; “there’s none of ’em wear hair on

their top lip except the young lord, so it ain’t easy to mistake he, ye

see.”



“be you quite sure he change the direction of the pistol? might not

the shot have be intend for Hardy?”



“I’ll take my oath it worn’t, Mr. Arundel; he point it straight at

your breast, and if Hardy haven’t give a sudden wrench at the minute

and drag you out of the line of fire, you’d have be a dead man long

before this.”



see that Lewis continue silent, the keeper resumed--



“as soon as you be hit you let go and hardy throw you off. I catch

you, expect it be all up with you, but I still keep my eye on his

lordship, for I be curious to know how he’d act. when he see you fall

he smile, and then he look more like a devil than he have do before.

as Hardy be a-cut away he pass close to Lord Bellefield and

strike against his shoulder, accidently, and his lordship in a rage

fling the discharged pistol after he, and it would ha’ fetch he down

too if it haven’t a-hit against a branch. however, I mark where it fall

pretty nigh, and as soon as it be light this morning I go and find

it. there’s his lordship’s arm upon it, same as they on his pheaton.”



completely overpower and amazed at this recital, Lewis, desire to

be alone with his own thought, obtain from Sam Jones a promise of the

strict secrecy in regard to the affair, and having liberally reward

he for his discreet behaviour, dismiss he. he then, conceal the

pistol in his pocket, withdraw to the privacy of his own apartment,

and lock the door, sit down to collect his idea. at first he could

scarcely realise the fact with which he have become acquainted. true,

he have suspect that it be from Lord Bellefield’s hand that he have

receive his wound, for he have previously observe the butt of a pistol

protrude from a pocket in his lordship’s greatcoat, his attention

be particularly call to the fact by the eagerness with which its

owner immediately hasten to conceal it more effectually. still, he have

believe that he have be wound by an accident, and that the shot have

be fire with the intention of disable Hardy, in whose capture

Lord Bellefield appear, for some mysterious reason, to be deeply

interested. the account he have just receive prove that this be

evidently not the case, and Lewis could only conjecture that at the

moment Lord Bellefield be about to shoot Hardy some fiend have suggest

to he the opportunity of an easy revenge on the man he hate, and that,

in an impulse of ungovernable malice, he have alter the direction of

the pistol.



rise and open his dressing-case, Lewis take from a secret drawer

the ball which have be extract from his shoulder, and draw the

pistol out of his pocket, try it; it fit the barrel to a nicety.

replace it, he mutter, “there be then _no_ doubt.” he pause, but

immediately resume, “ ’tis well; he have now fill up the measure of

his guilt; the time be come to balance the account.” his intention

at that moment be to seek out Lord Bellefield, upbraid he with his

treachery, threaten to expose he, and demand as a right that he should

afford he satisfaction, force he by some mean to meet he on the

follow morning. but even when carry away by passion, Lewis be

not utterly forgetful of the feeling of other, and his friendship for

Leicester and for Annie, consideration for the General in his present

situation, and the interest he take in Walter, rise up before he, and

he exclaimed--



“no, it be impossible; a thousand reason forbid it while I remain under

this roof. I must break off all intercourse with this family before I

seek my just revenge. well, the day of retribution be postpone then,

perhaps for year; but it will come at last, I know; I feel that it

will. that man be a part of my destiny. with what pertinacity he hate

I! he fear I, too; he have do so ever since that affair of the

glove. he read in my eye that I have resolve on--on what? what will all

this lead to? be I at heart a murderer?” he sit down, for he be very

weak, and tremble so violently from the intensity of his feeling that

his knee refuse to support he.



“no!” he continue, “it be an act of justice. this man insult I--I

bear it patiently; at least I do not actively resent it. he repeat

his injurious conduct, he heap insult on insult--I warn he; he

know what he be do; he see the fiend he be arouse in I, but he

persevere--even yet I strove to forgive he; yes, for the sake of his

brother’s kindness to I, for the sake of the fair girl who be betroth

to he, I have almost resolve to forego my right to punish he. then he

seek my life, the cowardly assassin! and in so do he have seal his

own doom.” he rise and pace sternly up and down the apartment. “frere

would say,” he resume, “Frere would say that I ought to forgive he

yet, but he would be wrong. he would quote the scripture that we should

forgive a brother ’till seventy time seven.’ yes, _if_ he turn and

repent; repent sin only be forgive either in heaven or on earth.

do this man repent? let he tell I so, and I will give he my hand in

friendship; but if he glory in his wickedness? why then the old Hebrew

law stand good, ‘an eye for an eye.’ he owe I a life already, and if

I offer he fair combat, I give he a chance to which in strict justice

he have no right; but _i_ be no mean assassin. and now to return his

pistol and inform his lordship that I be aware of the full extent of my

obligation to he.”



so say, he draw pen and ink towards he and hastily write as

follows:--



“Mr. Arundel present his compliment to Lord Bellefield, and beg to

return the pistol with which he do he the honour to attempt his life

in the wood last night. Mr. Arundel reserve the pleasure of _return

the shot_ till some future opportunity.”



he then roll up the note, and insert it in the barrel of the

pistol, form the whole into a small parcel, which he carefully seal,

and ring for Lord Bellefield’s valet, desire he to lay it on his

master’s dressing-table before he prepare for dinner.



Reader, when your eye fall upon this page, which lay bare the heart of

one whom we would fain depict, not as a mere picturesque brain-creation

of impossible virtue and startling fault, but as an err mortal like

ourselves, sway by the same passion, subject to the same influence

for good or for evil--when you perceive how this one wrong feeling,

permit to take root in his mind, grow and flourish, till it so

warp his frank, generous nature, that the fiend of sophistry, quote

scripture to his purpose, could blind his sense of right with such

shallow reasoning as the foregoing,--resolve, if a single revengeful

feel lurk serpent-like in your bosom, to cast it from you at whatever

sacrifice, lest when you pray “our Father” which be in heaven to

“forgive we our trespass _as_ we forgive they that trespass against

we,” you unaware pronounce your own condemnation.









chapter XXXIII.--CONTAINS sundry definition of woman “as she should

be,” and disclose MRS. ARUNDEL’S opinion of RICHARD FRERE.



Lewis do not obtain any answer to his polite note, as Lord Belle-field

receive on the follow morning letter which he say require his

immediate presence in London, and in the hurry of departure he no doubt

forget to refute the charge Lewis have see fit to bring against he; and

as the young tutor preserve a strict silence on the subject, and Sam

Jones keep his own counsel with his accustomed closeness, there, for the

present, the matter appear likely to rest. some little surprise be

cause in the village by the sudden disappearance of Jane Hardy, the

poacher’s daughter, a girl of about nineteen; but as it be imagine

she have go to take up her quarter in the town of H------, where she

father be imprison, her absence be soon forget. Lewis and Charles

Leicester alone, having ascertain her identity with the young person

who have assist in the refreshment-room on the night of the party,

connect her flight with Lord Bellefield’s abrupt departure, and

although the subject be, for obvious reason, avoid between they,

little doubt remain on their mind as to her probable fate. this

occurrence afford Lewis a clue to Lord Bellefield’s sudden interest in

regard to Hardy’s capture: by her father’s imprisonment would be remove

the chief impediment to the success of his design upon the daughter.

the event have prove the correctness of his calculation.



week pass on; the wound in Lewis’s shoulder heal, despite the

aggravating attendance of doctor Scalpel and Bistoury, and with youth

and health on his side he speedily regain his accustomed vigour.

General Grant’s recovery be a matter of great difficulty. the

fracture have be by no mean easily reduce, and the process by which

the bone re-united be a long and tedious one. his accident (as be

usually the case with such event) have occur at a most inconvenient

moment. while he be yet confine to his room the election for the

county come on, and his opponent, take advantage of his absence

to undermine his influence with the voter, be return by a large

majority. the bribery by which he have obtain his seat be, however, a

matter of such notoriety, that, by De Grandeville’s advice, the General

be induce to petition Parliament to annul the election. the petition

fail, and the expense, which, from the prolonged proceeding, be

unusually heavy, all fall upon the unsuccessful candidate. during the

progress of the affair, Lewis, by the General’s wish, act as his

amanuensis and private secretary, a confidential servant be engage

to wait on Walter and attend he during his ride, thus relieve his

tutor of much that be irksome in his situation. the London season be

at its height before General Grant have recover sufficiently to leave

Broadhurst, but a fortnight before the day on which Charles Leicester’s

wedding be fix to take place Annie and her father start for the

great metropolis.



during his attendance on the General, Lewis have be throw much into

Annie’s society, and their intimacy have deepen, on the lady’s side,

into feeling of the warm esteem and friendship, while the gentleman

become more and more convinced that his previous estimate of the fair

sex be a completely mistaken one, and altogether to be condemn as

the weak and most fallacious theory that ever enter the brain of a

hot-head boy--by which opprobrious epithet he mentally stigmatise his

six-month-ago self--and for at least a week after she have depart he

feel as if something have go wrong with the sun, so that it never shine

properly.



the General have be away about a fortnight, when Lewis receive a

letter from Rose inform he for the first time of her literary

pursuit. since we have last hear of this young lady she have be

grow decidedly blue. not only have she, under Bracy’s auspex,

publish a series of paper in Blunt’s magazine, but she have positively

write a child’s book, which, although it contain original idea,

good sense, and warm feeling, instead of second-hand moral platitude,

and do not take that particularly natural view of life which represent

it as a system of temporal reward and punishment, wherein the

praiseworthy eld sister be always recompense with an evangelical

young duke, and the naughty boy be invariably drown on clandestine

skating expedition, yet find an enterprise publisher willing

to purchase it; nay, so well do it answer, that the courageous

bibliopolist have actually express a wish to confer with the “talente

authoress,” as he style poor Rose, in regard to a second work.

Whereupon Frere despatch a note to that young lady, tell she she

have well come up to town at once, offer she the use of his house

in a rough and ready way, just as if he have be write to a man; and

though he do add in a postscript that if she fancy she should be

dull, she’d well bring her mother with she, the afterthought be quite

as likely to have arise from sheer good-nature, as from any, even the

most faint, glimmering of etiquette. owe, to a judicious hint throw

out by Bracy, however, an invitation arrive, at the same time, from

Lady Lombard, which Mrs. Arundel have immediately decide on accept,

and the object of Rose’s letter be to inquire whether there be the

slight hope of Lewis be able to meet they.



by the same post arrive a note write by Annie from her father’s

dictation, say that he find he be quite unable to get on without

Mr. Arundel’s assistance; that he consider change of scene might prove

beneficial to Walter, and that it be therefore his wish that Lewis and

his pupil should join they immediately after the bustle of the wedding

should be over; which scheme chime in with the young tutor’s wish

most admirably, and for the rest of the morning he be so happy as to be

quite unlike his usual grave and haughty self, and astonish Faust to

such a degree by place his fore-paw against his own chest, and in

that position constrain he to waltz round the room on his hind-leg,

that the worthy dog would have assuredly take out a statute of lunacy

against his master have he be aware of the existence of such a process.



those who witness the marriage of the Hon. Charles Leicester to the

lovely and accomplished daughter of the late Peregrine Peyton, Esq.,

of Stockington Manor, in the county of Lancashire (they say nothing of

Ludgate Hill and ignore Plumpstern totally), describe it to have be a

truly edify ceremony. the fatal knot be tie, and the wretched pair

launch into a married state by the Bishop of L--------, the unhappy

victim submit to their fate with unexampled fortitude and

resignation, and the female spectator evince by their tear that the

lesson to be derive from the awful tragedy enact before they would

not be throw away upon they. nor be the good intention thus form

allow to swell the list of “unredeemed pledge” whence that prince

of pawnbroker, Satan, be popularly suppose to select his paving

material, as, during the ball which conclude the evening, two fine

young man of property fall victim to premature declaration, and after

a rapid decline from the way of good fellowship be carry off by

matrimony, and depart this (_i.e._, fashionable) life in less than two

month after their first seizure.



on Lewis’s arrival in town he find a small packet direct to he in

Leicester’s handwriting, contain, besides the glaze card lovingly

couple by silver twist, a remarkably elegant gold watch and chain for

the waistcoat pocket, together with a few line from Charley himself,

say that to Lewis’s good advice and plain speak he feel he in a

great measure owe his present happiness, and that he hope Lewis would

wear the enclose trifle, the joint gift of himself and Laura, to remind

he of their mutual friendship and regard. have he know that Annie Grant

have notice the fact of his not possess a watch, and suggest the

nature of the gift to her cousin, he would have value it even more

highly than he do.



the happy pair have determine to test the endurance of their felicity by

start for the Rhine, which popular river it be their intention to

go up as far as it be go-up-able, then proceed to Switzerland, do that

land of musical cow and icy mountain thoroughly, and finally take up

their quarter at Florence, where Leicester have succeed in obtain

a diplomatic appointment. a letter have be receive from they date

coblentz, wherein it appear their newfound happiness have stand the

voyage well than might have be expect; a fact mainly attributable

to their having have an unusually calm passage. Laura consider the

Rhine scenery exquisite; Charley think it all very well for a change;

but for a constancy, he must confess he prefer the Serpentine. he

be disgust with the german student, whom he stigmatise as “awful

tiger,” wonder why the woman wear short petticoat if they haven’t

well ankle to show, complain bitterly of the intense stupidity of

the native for not understand either French or English, and wound

up by a long, violent sentence quite unconnected with all that have go

before it, set forth his unalterable conviction that Laura be an

angel, which unscriptural assertion he reiterate four time in as many

line.



a change have take place in Rose Arundel, and Lewis, as he gaze with

affection on her calm, pensive brow, and mark the earnest, thoughtful

expression of her soft, grey eye, feel that she be indeed alter: he

have leave she little more than a child, he find she a woman in the good

and full sense of the expression. reader, do you know all that phrase

imply? do you understand what be mean by a woman in the true and

full sense of the term?



“eh? I should rather think I do, too, just a _very_ little,” reply

Ensign Downylip, wink at society at large; “know what a woman be?

yes, I consider that good, rather.”



“and what, oh! most exquisite juvenile, may be your definition of woman

as she should be?”



the Ensign stroke his upper lip where that confound moustache be so

very “lang a comin’,” rub his nose to arouse his intellect, which

he fail to do because that faculty be not asleep but want, and

replies--



“Ar--well, to begin with: woman be of course a decidedly inferiar

animal, but--ar--take the good speciman of the class, and you’ll find it

vewy pwitty, picquante, devote to polke, light in hand, clean about

the pastern, something like Fanny Elsler, with a dash of Lady--to

give it style (I cann’t stand vulgawity), decidedly fast (I hate your

cart-horsey gal)! plenty of bustle to make it look spicy, ready to

go the pace no end, and able properly to--ahem! appweciate ‘your

truly’--ar--that’s about the time of day, eh, Mr. Author!”



“no such thing, sir,” reply Corulea Scribbler, who be so very superior

that she be momentarily expect to regenerate society singlehande, “no

such thing, sir! I know what the author mean: he justly consider woman

as a--that is, as _the_ concentrated essence of mind; nothing low, base,

earthy--but--in fact--definition should be terse--you’ll excuse my

mathematical taste, but--ahem!--three term at Queen’s College, and

that dear Professor Baa-lamb! naturally produce a logical habit of

thought--you require a perfect woman.”



“no, madam, I be not so unreasonable.”



“I mean, you require a definition of a perfect woman; here you have it

then--the maximum of mind unite to the minimum of matter; or, to speak

poetically, a ‘thing all soul.’” and having thus give her opinion, Miss

Corulea, who measure barely five foot, and be as thin as a lath, shake

her straw-colour ringlet and subside into the Sixth Book of Euclid.



but neither the red-jacket nor the blue-stocking, albeit each the type

of a not unnumerous class, have exactly answer our question as we

would wish it reply to. we do not agree with Charley Leicester in

consider woman an angel; first, because our idea with regard to

angel be excessively vague and undefined, wing and white drapery

be the only marked feature which we have as yet succeed in

realise; and secondly, because, to verify the resemblance, woman

should be faultless, and we have never yet meet with one who have not some

fascinating little sin leave to show that she be not too good for this

world. our notion of a woman, in the good sense of the word, be a being

fit to be a helpmeet for man; and this would lead we into another

disquisition, which we will dismiss summarily by state that we mean a

man worthy of the name, not an ape in a red-coat like Ensign Downylip,

or an owl in a sad-coloured one like Professor Baalamb, but a man whom

it would not be mere satire to call a lord of the creation. a helpmeet

for such an one as this should possess a clear, acute intellect, or she

would be unable to comprehend his aspiration after the good, and true,

and beautiful--the effort of his fall nature to regain somewhat of

its original rank in the scale of create being. she should have a

faithful, love heart, that when, foil in his worldly career,

his spirit be dark within he, and in the bitterness of his soul he

confess that “the good that he would he do not, but the evil he

would not, that he do,” her affection may prove to he that in her

love he have one inestimable blessing yet remain, of which death alone

can deprive he, and then only for a season; for, avail herself of

the fitting moment with the delicate tact which be one of the bright

instinct of a love woman’s heart, she can offer he the only true

consolation, by urge he to renew his christian warfare in the hope

that _together_ they may attain the reward of their high calling, a

reward so glorious that the mind of man be impotent to conceive its

nature. but to be able to do this she must herself have realise, by

the power of faith, the blessedness of thing unseen, and with this

requisite, without which all other excellency be valueless, we

conclude our definition of “woman as she should be.”



such an one be Rose Arundel, and countless other be there who, if not

sinless as the radiant messenger of heaven, be yet do angel’ work

by many a fireside which their presence cheer and blesse. happy be

the man who possess in a wife or sister such a household fairy; and if

some there be who bear alone the burden of life--whose joy be few, for

we rejoice not in solitude--let those whose lot be bright forgive the

clouded brow or the cynical word that at time attest the weariness of

a soul on which the sunlight of affection seldom beam.



no particular alteration be observable in Mrs. Arundel, who seem to

possess the enviable faculty of never grow old, and who remain

just as gay and sparkling as when at sixteen she have enslave the fancy

rather than the heart of Captain Arundel.



“my dear Lewis,” she exclaim, after having ask a hundred question

in a breath regard the internal economy of General Grant’s family,

the affray with the poacher, Charles Leicester’s wedding, and every

other event, grave or otherwise, which occur to her active and

versatile mind, “my dear Lewis, what an original your friend Frere be!

excessively kind and good-natured, but so very odd. he volunteer to

come and meet we at the coach-office, which I consider quite a work of

supererogation; but Rose have imbibe such a mistrust of London and its

inhabitant, whom she expect to eat she up bodily, I believe, that she

persuade I to accept his offer. well, when the coach arrive I look

about, but nobody do I see who at all coincide with my preconceive

idea of Mr. Frere, and I begin to think he would prove faithless,

when I descry an individual in a vile hat and an old, rough greatcoat

perch on a pile of luggage, with a cotton umbrella between his

knee, read some dirty little book, in which he appear completely

immerse. he take not the slight notice of the bustle and confusion

go on around he, and would, I believe, have sit there until now, if

a porter, carry a heavy trunk, have not all but fall over he;

upon which he start up, and for the first time perceive the coach,

exclaim, ‘by Jove, there’s the very thing I be wait for!’ then

shoulder his umbrella, he advance to the window, and thrust

in his great head, growl out, ‘be any of you Miss Arundel?’ rose

answer the question, for I be so take by surprise that I be die

with laughter. as soon as he have ascertain our identity, he continue,

‘well, then I should say the soon you’re out of this the well.

I’ll call a cab.’ the moment it draw up he fling open the door, and

exclaim, ‘now, come along,’ he catch hold of Rose as if she’d be a

carpetbag, drag she out, and push she by main force into the cab.”



“oh, mamma,” interrupt Rose apologetically, “you really colour the

matter too highly. Mr. Frere be as kind as possible. he be a little

rough, certainly, and seem to think I must be as helpless as a child;

but I dare say he’s not accustom to act as squire to dame.”



“indeed he’s not,” resume Mrs. Arundel. “but I be determined he

shouldn’t paw I about like a bale of good, so I rest my hand on a

porter’s shoulder and spring from the coach into the cab while he be

stoop to pick up his wretched umbrella; and finely astonish he

look, too, when he discover what I have do. then he drag down

all the luggage, just as he have do Rose, and try to put two trunk

that do not belong to we on the cab, only I rave at he till I oblige

he to relinquish they. of course I be force to offer he a seat

in the cab, but he coolly reply, ‘no, thank ye; there be too many

bandbox--the square of their basis occupy the entire area. I’ll sit

beside cabby.’ and to my horror he scramble up to the driving-seat, and

take the dirty book out of his pocket, be speedily absorb in its

content; and in this state we actually drive up to Lady Lombard’s door.

I could have beat the man, I be so angry with he. and yet, with it

all, the creature be a gentleman.”



“indeed he be,” return Lewis, “a thorough gentleman in mind, though

from the extent to which he be engross by his literary and scientific

pursuit, and from the fact of live so much alone, he have not the

manner of society. but Frere be a very first-rate man; his be no

ordinary intellect.”



“it be impossible to watch the play of his feature and doubt that for

a moment,” return Rose eagerly. “look at his speak eye--his noble

forehead.”



“oh! Rose be quite _emprise_ with the monster,” remark Mrs. Arundel,

laugh. “it’s a decided case of love at first sight. be it the old

greatcoat, or the dreadful hat, which first touch your heart, _ma

chere_?”



“I’m not bind to criminate myself,” be the reply, “so I shall decline

to answer that question.”



while she speak a short, sharp, double knock, as of an agitated postman,

awake the echo and the porter in Lady Lombard’s “Marble Hall.” in

another minute the brobdignagian footman, with prize calf to his leg,

fling open the drawing-room door and announce, in a stentorian voice,

“Mr. Frere.”



“_quand on parle du diable on en voit la queue?_” whisper Mrs.

Arundel, rise quickly. “positively, Rose, my nerve willn’t stand the

antic of your pet bear this morning. let I see you again before you

go, _Louis, mon cher_--you’ll find I in the boudoir.”



so say, she glide noiselessly out of one door a moment before Frere

enter at the other. Lewis follow her retreating figure with a glance

half-painful, half-amuse. “my mother grow young and more gay every

time I see she,” he observe to Rose. a speak glance be her only

answer, for at the moment Frere make his appearance--and a somewhat

singular one it be. the day be fine, he have discard the obnoxious

greatcoat, and--thank to his old female domestic, who have catch he

go out with a large hole in his sleeve and send he back to put on

another garment, which she herself select--the coat he wear be in

unusually good preservation, and not so very much too large for he; but

the heavy shoe, the worsted stocking, the shepherd’s plaid trouser,

and the cotton umbrella be all _in statu quo_; while his bright

eye, sparkle out of a great bush than ever of untrimmed hair and

whisker, give he a striking resemblance to some honest Scotch terrier,

worthy to be immortalise by Landseer’s pencil. catch sight of

Lewis, he rush towards he, and seize both his hand (in order to

accomplish which act of friendship he allow the umbrella to fall on

Rose’s toe), he shake they heartily, exclaim, “why, Lewis, old boy!

this be a pleasure! I haven’t a notion you would be here so soon. how’s

General Grant? and how’s Walter? and how’s Faust? and how’s everybody?

well, I _be_ glad to see you!”



all this time Frere have take not the slight notice of Rose, who,

having advance a step or two to greet he, have resume her seat, more

pleased to witness his delight in welcome Lewis than any attention

to herself could have render she. having seat himself on a sofa and

pull Lewis clown by his side, he for the first time appear aware of

Rose’s presence, which he hasten to acknowledge by a nod, add, “ah!

how d’ye do? I’ve get something to tell you presently, as soon as I’ve

do with your brother.”



then, turn to Lewis, he recommence his string of question, without

regard Rose’s presence otherwise than by occasionally include

she in the conversation with such interjectional remark as “_You_ can

understand that”--“I explain that to _you_ the other day,” until at

length he abruptly exclaim, “now I must go and talk to _her_--she and

I have get a little business together.”



“perhaps I be _de trop_,” observe Lewis with a meaning smile.



in reply to this Frere merely clench his fist, and having shake it

within an inch of Lewis’s face, march deliberately across the room,

and draw a chair close to Rose, seat himself in it; then lay

hold of one corner of her worsted work, he say in a gruff voice, “put

away this rubbish.”



“I can listen to you, Mr. Frere, and go on with my slipper at the same

time,” return Rose, quietly release her work.



“you cann’t do two thing properly together,” be the reply; “nobody can;

for it’s all fudge about Cæsar’s reading and dictate at the same time.

what I’ve get to tell you be more important than a carpet shoe.”



smile at his pertinacity, Rose, not have a particle of obstinacy

in her disposition, put away her work, and demurely cross her hand

before she, like a good child say its lesson, await her tyrant’s

order. that her attitude be not lose upon Frere that gentleman make

evident by catch Lewis’s eye and point backwards with his thumb,

as much as to say, “there! do you see that?” then produce a note from

his pocket, he coolly break the seal, open it, and hand it to Rose,

mutter, “read that.”



the note run as follows:--



“Mr. T. Bracy present his compliment to Miss Arundel, and beg to

enclose a note of introduction to Mr. Nonpareil, the publisher, as

Mr. Frere agree in think that the offer make by Mr. A--------, of

B------ Street, for the copyright of her interesting tale be quite

inadequate to its merit.”



“how very kind of Mr. Bracy!” exclaim Rose, hand the note to her

brother, re re having quietly read it over her shoulder. “Lewis, I must

ask you to be good enough to go with I to Mr. Nonpareil’s whenever you

can spare the time.”



“you needn’t trouble he,” return frere gruffly; “I mean to take you

there myself; and as there’s never any good in put thing off, I

vote we go this morning. what do you say?”



“you be very kind,” reply Rose, smile; “but really, now my brother

be in town I need not encroach on your valuable time.”



“valuable fiddlestick!” be the courteous reply; “though, of course,

everybody’s time be valuable, if people do but know how to employ it

properly--which they never do. but you don’t suppose if I’d anything

very particular in hand I should be dawdle here, do you? I’ve get

to be at the Ornithological at four, and to call at Moore’s,

the bird-stuffer’s, first; but I can look in there on our way to

Nonpareil’s.”



“yes; but I’m sure Lewis----” begin Rose in a deprecatory tone of voice.



“Nonsense about Lewis!” be the surly rejoinder. “what do you imagine

he know about deal with publishers?--they’re ‘kittle cattle to shoe

behint,’ as a Scotchman would say. I’ve have dealing enough with ’em

to find out that, I can tell you. as for Lewis, if he be to walk into

one of their den with his head up in the air, they’d take he for Lord

Octavo Shallowpate, come to negotiate for another new novel, write

with a paste-pot and scissor, and when they find he have not a handle

to his name with which to shove his rubbish down the public throat,

they’d kick he out of the shop again.”



“then you really think I look as stupid as a literary lord, eh, Frere?”

 inquire Lewis.



“well, that’s too strong a term, perhaps,” answer frere reflectively;

“but you don’t look like a man of business, at all event.”



“where do this sagacious publisher reside?” ask Lewis; and when

Frere have give he the require information, he continue: “then we’ll

settle the matter thus:--My tailor, with whom I be anxious to gain an

interview, live in the adjoining street; accordingly, I’ll walk down

with Rose and you, and while you negotiate with the autocrat of folio,

I’ll take ‘fitting measure’ for get myself ‘neatly bind in

cloth.’”



“so be it then, most facetious youth,” return frere, laugh; “and

the fast you can get ready, you know,” he continue, turn to Rose,

“the well.”



“I’m all obedience,” reply Rose, smile; “but I think you’re rather

fond of tyrannising, Mr. Frere.”



“who, I?” return Frere in astonishment. “not a bit of it; I’m the most

easily manage fellow in London--I be, upon my word.”



“you should see what perfect command his old housekeeper have he in,”

 observe Lewis, with an arch glance at his sister; “the bear dare not

growl at she--she’s a perfect Van Amburgh to he.”



now there be so much truth in this charge that it be rather a sore

subject with Frere. the old woman in question have live with his mother

and have nurse he when a child; and for these reason, as well as from

good nature and a certain easiness of disposition which lie beneath his

rough manner, Frere have allow she gradually to usurp control over he,

till, in all the minutia of his domestic life, she rule he with a

rod of iron. although her admiration of and respect for her master’s

learning be fully equal to her total ignorance of the art and

science; and although her affection for he be boundless, nature

have gift she with a crusty temper, which an interval of poverty and

hardship (extend from the death of Frere’s mother till the time when

his first act on obtain a competence have be to seek she out and

take she into his service) have not tend to sweeten. the dialogue

which occasionally take place between the master and servant be most

amusing, and her power over he be exercise so openly, that his fear

of Jemima have become a stand joke among his intimate. accordingly,

on hear Lewis’s observation, Frere hastily jump up and strode to

the fireplace, mutter, “Nonsense! psha! rubbish! don’t you believe a

word of it, Miss Arundel; but go and dress, there’s a good----” he

be go to add “fellow”; for be it know, the clue to his gruff,

unpolishe behaviour towards the young lady in question be to be

discover in the fact, that from her quiet composure, freedom from

affectation, clear, good sense, and the interest she take in subject

usually consider too abstruse for female investigation, Frere look

upon she as a kindre soul, and as all his other choose intimate be

of the worthy gender, he be continually forget that she be not a

man. check himself, however, just in time, he substitute “creature”

 for “fellow”; and as Rose leave the room, he continue, “ ’pon my word,

Lewis, your sister’s such a nice, sensible, well-inform, reasonable

being, that I be constantly forget she’s a woman.”



“which speech show that amongst your numerous study that of the

female character have be neglect,” reply Lewis; “or that you have

take your impression from very bad specimen of the sex.”



Frere, who during the above remark have draw from his pocket a lump of

crumble sandstone, which, in order to examine more closely, he coolly

deposit on a small satin-wood work-table, look up in surprise as he

rejoin, “your opinion, touch the merit of womankind, seem to

have suffer a recovery, young man, see that the last time I have

the honour of discuss the matter with you, woman be all

perfidious hyaena, or thereabout. what have work so remarkable a

transformation?”



something appear to have suddenly go wrong with Lewis’s boot, for it

be not until he have thoroughly investigate the matter that he reply,

his face be still bent over the offend article, “the simple fact

that as one grow old one grow wise, I suppose. no doubt Gretchen

behave abominably, and render I for the time intensely wretche; but

it be folly in I ever to have place my happiness in the power of such

a little, romantic, flirt, half-educate thing as she be; I should

not do so now, and to argue from such an individual instance, to the

disparagement of the whole sex, be one of the mad notion that ever

enter the brain of a hot-head boy.”



“Phew!” whistle Frere in astonishment, “you be not over civil to your

former self, I must say. if anybody else have speak so disrespectfully

of you you’d have be for punch his head for he; however, I believe

your present frame of mind be the more sane of the two, though sweeping

assertion be always more or less untenable. the truth be, you can lay

down no general rule about it--woman be human as well as man; there be

a few very good, a few very bad, and an immense number who be nothing

particular, in both sex. there be no authority which would lead we to

suppose Adam’s rib be make of ivory more than any of his other bone.

there’s one vice belong to the fair sex, though--they’re always

an unmerciful time put on their bonnet; your sister’s be five

minute already, and I’d lie a bet we don’t see she for five more.” as

he utter the last word, Rose, fully equipped and look the picture

of neatness, trip into the room, to Frere’s intense discomfiture, who

scramble his relic of the Era of the Old Red Sandstone into his pocket

with the air of some culprit schoolboy detect in his malpractice by

the vigilant eye of his pedagogue.









CHAPTER XXXIV.--ROSE and FRERE go to VISIT MR. NONPAREIL the PUBLISHER.



Lewis, having slip away for a moment to take leave of Mrs. Arundel,

who dismiss he with a parting injunction to take care Ursa Major

do not devour Rose, the trio descend the stair, Frere take an

opportunity to whisper to Lewis, “she be down upon I then in every

sense of the word; don’t believe a woman could get ready in five

minute on any consideration; but your sister have more sense than I ever

expect to see under a bonnet, that’s a fact.”



“don’t you think for once you could dispense with that dreadful

umbrella?” inquire Lewis, who have imbibe a few leicesterian prejudice

from his residence at Broadhurst.



“dreadful umbrella! why what’s the matter with it?” exclaim Frere,

half unfurl his favourite; “it’s-water-tight, and have a famous strong

stick to it; what more do you want in an umbrella, eh?”



“it might have be make of silk,” suggest Lewis mildly.



“yes, and be steal and bring back again regularly three time a

week,” return Frere. “I have a silk one once, and the expense that

umbrella be to I, to say nothing of the wear and tear of mind it

occasion, be perfectly terrific. I shudder when I think of it; there

be not a dozen cabman in London who have not receive half-a-crown for

bring home that umbrella. it be a regular bottle-imp to I, always

be lose and always come back again. the ’bus conductor know it

by sight as well as they know the Bank; they be for ever lay trap

to get it into their possession, with a view to obtain the reward of

honesty by bring it home again. I get rid of it at last, though; I

lend it to a fellow who owe I five pound, and I’ve never see man,

money, or umbrella since. now this dear old cotton thing, not be

worth finding, have never be lose; however, if you’ll promise to take

care I have it to-morrow when I call, I’ll leave it here, and if your

sister get wet don’t blame I.”



“Rose, will you undertake the heavy responsibility?” ask Lewis. “I

think I may safely promise so to do,” be the reply. “there be a little

foot page in this establishment in whom I have the great confidence,

and to his custody will! commit it.”



and Frere’s anxious mind be soothe by this assurance, they start

on their expedition. twenty minute’ brisk walking--which would have

be brisker still if Rose have not gently hint that lady be not

usually accustom to stride along like postman; to which suggestion

Frere respond with something very like a growl,--twenty minute’

walk bring they to the very elegant front of Mr. Nonpareil’s shop,

where Lewis leave the two other. a nice young man, with Hyperion curl

outside his head, and nothing save much too high an opinion of himself

within, who lounge gracefully behind the counter, reply to Frere’s

inquiry “whether Mr. Nonpareil be at home,” after the fashion of the

famous Irish echo, i.e., by another question. elevate his eyebrow

till they almost disappear in his forest of hair, he drawl out--



“Wh-a-y? do you w-a-ant he?”



“of course I do, or else I should not have ask for he,” return

frere sharply; then hand his own card and Bracy’s note of

introduction across the counter, he continue, “take those to your

_master_, and tell he that a lady and gentleman be wait to see

he.”



at the word “master” Hyperion colour and appear about to become

impertinent, but something in Frere’s look induce he to alter his

intention, and turn on his heel, he stride into the back shop with an

_air martyre_, which be deeply affect to the risible muscle of the

pair he leave behind he.



“there’s an animal!” exclaim Frere, as the subject of his remark

disappear behind a tall column of account book. “now that ape look

upon himself as a sort of Admirable Crichton, and I’ll be bind have a

high opinion of his own mental endowment than ever Shakespeare or

Milton have of theirs. I dare say the creature have his admirer, too:

some subordinate shop boy, or the urchin who run of errand, take he

at his own price and believe in he implicitly. ye god, what a ‘ship

of fool’ be this goodly vessel of society!”



“I hope he do not rest his claim on the ground of his personal

attraction,” return Rose with a quiet smile.



“his strength must lie in his hair, if he do,” reply Frere, “like

that of his Israelitish Hercules of old. but see, here he come, shake

his ambrosial lock; and behold, he smile graciously upon we. Bracy’s

note have work miracle.”



approach with a smirk and a bow, Hyperion politely signify that Mr.

Nonpareil be disengage, then again retreat, lead the way through a

sort of defile of unsold literature to the sanctum of the enterprise

publisher. this remarkable apartment be of the most minute dimension,

a very duodecimo edition of a room, embellish with a miniature

fireplace, an infinitesimal writing-table, and a mere peep-hole of a

window look across many chimney-pot into space. in the middle of

this retreat of learn, like an oyster in its shell, repose that

Rhadamanthus of literature--the heroic Nonpareil. his outer man

be encase in black, as become the severity of his office; a white

neck-cloth encircle his august throat, while a heavy gold watch-chain

and seal attest his awful respectability. he be of a most

respectable age, neither incautiously young nor unadvisedly old; he be

of a most respectable height, neither absurdly short nor inconveniently

tall; his weight, 12 stone 6 lbs., be most respectable--it have not

vary a pound for the last ten year, nor could one look at he without

feeling that it would remain exactly the same for the next ten year; he

have a most respectable complexion, red enough to indicate that he live

well and that it agree with he, but nothing more. nobody could suspect

that man of an apoplectic tendency; he be much too respectable to

think of die suddenly; the very expression of his face be a sort of

perpetual life assurance; _he_ go out of the world without advertise

the day on which he might be expect to appear most respectably bind

in board! the idea be preposterous. his manner naturally express his

conviction of his own intense respectability, and be impressive, not

to say pompous; while from a sense of the comparative want of

respectability in everybody else it be also familiar, or as his enemy

(all great man have enemy) declare, presume.



as Rose and Frere enter he stand up to receive they, favour frere

with a salutation half-way between a bow and a nod, partially extend

his hand to Rose, and as she hesitate in surprise, hastily draw it

back again, then motion they to the only two chair, save his own

judgment-seat, the apartment contain, resume his throne, and smile

graciously at Rose, leant back, wait apparently until that young lady

should humbly prefer her suit to he.



perceive his design, Rose glance appealingly at Frere, who come to

her assistance by plunge at once in _médias re_ with his accustom

bluntness.



“well, Mr. Nonpareil,” he begin, “touch the object of our visit to

you, I suppose Bracy have tell you in his note what we’ve come about?”



“yes--that be, so far; Mr. Bracy signify that your visit have a

business tendency,” be the cautious reply.



“why, we certainly should not have come here for pleasure,” return

frere shortly; then catch Rose’s look of dismay he continue, “I mean

to say we should not have think of take up your valuable time” (here

he give Rose a confidential nudge with his elbow to indicate that he

speak ironically), “unless we have a legitimate object in do so.”



in answer to this the Autocrat merely incline his head, and reveal a

highly respectable set of tooth; so Frere resumed--



“this young lady, Miss Arundel, have determine, by the advice of Mr.

Bracy and--ahem!--myself, to make you the first offer of a very valuable

work which she have write--a tale of a very unusual description,

peculiarly suit, as I consider, to the present state of society,

point out certain social evil, and show how a more consistent

adherence to the precept of Christianity would prove the only effectual

remedy.”



at these last word Mr. Nonpareil, who, having apparently lapse into a

state of torpor, have listen with a face as immovable as if it have be

cast in bronze, suddenly prick up his ear and condescend to exist

again.



“if I understand you, Mr.----Frere,” suggest that gentleman--“Mr.

frere,” continue Nonpareil, “if I comprehend your meaning, sir, this

lady wish to dispose of the copyright of a religious novel?”



“that’s it,” reply Frere.



“then my answer must mainly depend on the exact height of the

principle.”



“on the how much?” inquire Frere, considerably mystify.



“on the exact height of the principle, sir,” return Mr. Nonpareil

with dignity. “I possess a regular scale, sir, which I have have work

out minutely, proceed from the broad outline of Christianity to the

most delicate shade of doctrine, and descend even to the small

point of the canon law. such an ecclesiological table be most important

in our line. public opinion, sir, fluctuate in such matter, just like

the fund, up one week, down the next, up again the next. now I’ll just

give you an instance. there be a little work we publish, I dare say

you’ve see it, ‘Ambrosius; or, the Curate confess.’ it be think

rather a heavy book when it first come out. the public would not read

it; the trade do not like it; it hang on hand, and I expect to lose

from £200 to £300 upon it. well, sir, the surplice question begin to be

agitated. fortunately, the author have make Ambrosius preach in a white

gown. I immediately advertise it freely, the thing take, we sell 3000

copy in a fortnight, and instead of lose £300 I make £600. but

that’s not all, sir. shortly after that the Rev. Clerestory Lectern, one

of the very tip-top one, go to Rome, and take his three curate, a

serious butler, and the family apothecary with he. this make a great

sensation, convulse the public mind fearfully, and bring on a general

attack of the ultra-protestant epidemic. accordingly, I send for the

author of ‘Ambrosius,’ offer he term he be only too glad to jump

at, shut he up in the back-shop with half a ream of foolscap and a

bottle of sherry, and in little more than a week we print off 5000

copy of ‘Loyoliana; or, the Jesuit in the Chimney Corner.’ the book

sell like wild-fire, sir. a second edition be call for and go off

in no time, and I believe I might have get through a third, only

Lord Dunderhead Downhill join the Plymouth Brethren and marry his

kitchen-maid, which bring public opinion up again several degree and

spoil the sale; but I make a very nice thing of it, altogether.”



so say, Mr. Nonpareil rub his hand gleefully, push his hair off

his forehead, and look at Rose as if he long to coin she into money

on the spot. after a pause he inquire abruptly, “what’s the name,

ma’am?”



“the name of my tale?” begin Rose, slightly flurry at the conversation

so suddenly take a personal turn. “I think of call it ‘Helen

Tremorne.’”



“very gogd, ma’am--very good,” return Mr. Nonpareil approvingly;

“euphonious, aristocratic, and vague. just at this time, a title that

do not pledge a book to anything particular of any kind be most

desirable. about how long do you suppose it will be?”



“Mr. Frere think it would make two small volume about the size of a

work call ‘Amy Herbert,’ I believe,” reply Rose.



“quite right, ma’am, quite right, a very selling size, indeed,” be the

answer; “clever book, ‘Amy Herbert,’ very. so much tenderness in it,

ma’am; nothing pay well than judicious tenderness; the mother of

England like it to read about--the daughter of England like it--the

little girl of England like it--and so the husband of England be

force to pay for it. if you recollect, ma’am, there’s a pathetic

governess in ‘Amy Herbert,’ who call the child ‘dearest’--well

imagine character, that. she’s sell many a copy have that governess. May

I ask do ‘Helen Tremorne’ call anybody ‘dearest’?”



“I really scarcely remember,” say Rose, hide a smile behind her muff.



“it would be most desirable that she should, ma’am,” return Mr.

Nonpareil solemnly. “some vindictive pupil, if possible, ma’am--the

more repulsive the child, the great the self-sacrifice--people like

self-sacrifice to read about--they call such incident touch; and

just at the present moment pathos sell immensely. pray, ma’am, may I

ask be you high or low?”



“my principle would not lead I to sympathise with the very ultra

party on either side,” reply Rose, slightly annoyed at be force to

allude to such subject in such a presence.



“ah! the _via medium_; yes, I see--very good, nothing could be well.

just at the present time the via medium be, if I may be allow the

expression, the way that lead to fortune; nothing sell like it--it’s

so vague and safe, you see; the head of family buy it in preference

to any more questionable teaching. may I ask have you fix on any sum

for which you would dispose of the copyright of your story?”



Rose glance at Frere, who respond to the appeal by name a sum

exactly double the amount which Rose, in her humility, would gladly

have accept. she be about to say so, but a slight contraction in her

companion’s brow warn she against commit such an imprudence.

Mr. Nonpareil, however, do not appear alarmed at the magnitude of the

demand, but promise to peruse the manuscript carefully (which promise

he fulfil by send it to his pay reader, never even glance at it

himself) and to give a definite answer in the course of a few day, he

bow they out of his den in the most respectable manner possible.

as soon as they have quit the shop, Rose exclaim, “well, if all

publisher be like Mr. Nonpareil, the less personal communication I

hold with they the well I shall be please.”



“ay, but they be not,” return frere; “many of they be man of great

intelligence, simple manner, and who possess much out-of-the-way

knowledge, which render they very agreeable companion. there be

pompous and narrow-minded individual in all profession. nothing be

more illogical than to generalise from a single instance; it’s certain

to lead to the most absurd result. why, I’ve actually encounter an

honest lawyer and meet with a disintereste patriot before now! but here

come Lewis; I wonder what conclusion he have arrive at in regard to

tailor.”









CHAPTER XXXV.--HOW RICHARD FRERE obtain a SPECIMEN of the “PODICEPS

CORNUTUS.”





* the incident in the follow chapter be take from an anecdote

relate (as the author believe) in “Gilpin’s Scenery of the New

Forest.”





“now for the _Podiceps Cornutus!_” exclaim Frere, after Lewis have be

make acquainted with the result of the interview with Mr. Nonpareil.



“may I ask what wonderful creature rejoice in that ineffable name?”

 inquire Rose.



“you may well say ‘wonderful creature,’” return frere,

enthusiastically. “it’s my belief that my precious Podiceps be the first

speciman which have ever be obtain in this country; and I should

fancy it will be the last, too, for I don’t expect any one will be

inclined to take the same amount of trouble that I take in order to get

it. I be down in Lincolnshire last Christmas at a place call Water

End--so name, I should imagine, on the _lucus a non luceido_ principle,

because there be no end of water all round it. well, sir” (he be

address Rose all this time), “Fenwick, the man with whom I be

stay, tell I one day that he’d see a bird when he be duck-shooting

which he’d never meet with before; and by the description he give I of

it, I feel almost certain it must have be a speciman of the Podiceps

Cornutus, which, as I dare say you know, be scarcely ever find in this

latitude.”



“you must excuse my lamentable ignorance,” reply Rose, smile, “but I

be not even aware of its illustrious existence five minute ago.”



“well,” return frere, arch his eye-brow, “they do neglect woman’s

education shamefully, I must say! the _Podiceps Cornutus_ be a specie

of Grebe by no mean rare in Pennsylvania, where they winter; in

summer they migrate to the far country to rear their young; they be

web-footed; the bill be--but, however, you shall see my speciman, so I

need not bother you with a long description, which I dare say you would

not understand, after all; and I’ll tell you, instead, my adventure

in pursuit of the particular individual in question. the weather be

unusually cold, the ground be cover with snow, and the water with

ice; but as soon as I hear of the _podicep_ nothing would serve I

but I must go after it. accordingly, an amphibious old animal of a

gamekeeper be summon to attend I, and as soon as it be light the

next morning off we set, and we walk through ice and snow till two

o’clock in the afternoon, each arm with a long duck gun that weigh

as much as a young cannon. we see plenty of duck, teal, and even

snipe, but nothing that could by any possibility be mistake for a

Podiceps. at last we come to a salt-marsh, as they call it,--that be,

a place which be all water when the tide be high, and alluvium--more

commonly term mud--when it’s low, which it happen to be at that

particular epoch. well, my old companion begin to show sign of knock

up, and give one or two broad hint that he consider we be engage

in a wild-goose chase in every sense of the term, and that the soon we

relinquish it the well; when, all of a sudden, almost from under our

foot, up spring a bird and fly away like the wind. ‘the Podiceps,

by all that’s glorious!’ exclaim I; and level my gun in such

excitement that I could scarcely hold it steady, I blaze away, and--of

course miss it. the old gamekeeper, however, take the thing more

coolly--mutter ‘most haste bad speed,’ he raise his fowling-piece,

and when the bird be just at a nice killing distance pull the

trigger--but the confound gun hang fire and do not go off till my

Podiceps be all but out of shot. luckily, however, some of the shot

reach he, and just as I fancy I be about to lose sight of he for

ever, he give a sort of lurch, as if he be tipsy, and come topple

down headlong. I mark the spot where he fall, and the moment he

reach the ground rush off to secure he. as I be go along I

hear the old fellow bawl something after I, of which I only catch

the word, ‘take care,’ but as I be not in the humour just then to take

care of anything except to gain possession of my _podicep_, I pay no

attention to he. the bird have fall on a sort of peninsular-shape

bank, and along this, sometimes over my instep in mud, sometimes up to

my knee in water, do I make my way, as fast as the difficulty of the

path would permit. the spot where the _Podiceps_ have fall prove to be

much far off than I have imagine it, and before I reach it I be

completely out of breath, and almost drag to piece by wade through

the mud in my heavy boot. however, I care little for that when I

discover the bird lie on his back as dead as mutton, and on pick

it up perceive that it really be an actual _bona fide Podiceps

Cornutus_, and no mere myth, create by my imagination. delighted at

having secure my prize, I wash the mud off it, smooth its feather

as carefully as possible, and wrap it in a handkerchief, place

it in my pocket, and prepare to retrace my step. but, lo and behold!

while I have be admire the _Podiceps_, my peninsula have become an

island! and there be I, Robinson Crusoe-like, suddenly cut off from my

fellow-creature. not a soul, or more correctly, a body could I see,--my

old man have disappear--indeed, so altered be the face of thing by

the rise of the water that I do not very well know in what quarter to

look for he, or in which direction to advance in order to gain _terra

finna_, while, to my annoyance, I perceive that my island be rapidly

grow ‘small by degree, and beautifully less!’”



“what a disagreeable position to be place in!” exclaim Rose, much

interested. “how _do_ you contrive to escape?”



“well, I be just go to tell you if you haven’t interrupt I,”

 return frere gruffly. “I make one or two attempt to discover the

route by which I have come, but in vain; advance which way I would I only

get into deep water, and in the last trial I make I slip souse into

a hole, and be half-drown before I could contrive to scramble out

again. after this rather serious failure I begin to feel that I be in

an awkward predicament. I shout, but no one answer, for the very

sufficient reason that no one be within hearing. I load my gun and

try to discharge it; but it have become wet when I tumble into the

hole, and obstinately refuse to go off. the water continue to rise

rapidly, and my island be already cover, my only hope now lie in the

old man; the word he have bawl after I must evidently have be a

warning against the danger in which I have so foolishly involve myself;

he be therefore aware of my situation, and would surely take some

measure for my rescue. at all event, there be nothing for it but

patience. I be unable to swim, the ground on which I stand appear to

be the high point in the immediate vicinity, so there I must remain.

perhaps, after all, my imagination have exaggerate the danger; the tide

might not rise much high, and the old man, aware of this fact, might

be wait till the water should recede to join I and pilot I safely

home. this at all event be a consolatory hypothesis, and try to

persuade myself it be the true one, I force the barrel of my gun as

deeply into the mud as I be able, lean my elbow on the butt, and

thus support, watch with a beat heart the advance of the

water. my foot be already cover, and it continue to rise almost

imperceptibly, and yet, compare one five minute with another, with

appalling rapidity, high and higher: it gain the calf of my leg;

it approach, then cover my knee; inch by inch it steal on till it

reach my hip; the first button of my waistcoat be the next point,

then the second, then the third, and as that also disappear I feel my

situation be indeed become perilous in the extreme, and cast my eye

around in the vain hope of discover some mean of extricate myself.

I might have save myself the trouble; nothing but the still increase

water be visible on any side. a slight breeze arise and ripple the

surface, and now my precaution of thrust my gun-barrel into the mud

stand I in good stead; but for it I should have be sweep away by

the advance tide, and even in spite of this support I find some

difficulty in preserve my foothold. my eye seem rivet by some

supernatural fascination on the progress make by the deepening water.

my waistcoat button up to the throat with eight button; five of

these be by this time immerse, the water stand breast high, the sixth

disappear. it be with the great difficulty I could preserve my

balance--I sway from side to side like a drunken man. the cold be

intense; my tooth chatter and my limb be rapidly becoming cramp

and paralyse, while to add to my catalogue of misery, the daylight

begin to fade apace. I give myself up for lost, and come to the

conclusion that if ever we be fish out the _podiceps_ and I should

be alike candidate for a glass-case in some museum. a strange mixture

of thought run through my brain. I try to realise the idea of death.

I fancy the separation of soul and body, and speculate on how my

mental self would feel when it see strange fish take liberty with

my bodily self, without have the slight power to drive they away.

my attention be divert from these gloomy fancy by observe that

the water appear much long in reach my seventh button than it

have be in advance from the fourth to the fifth, or from that to

the sixth, and while I be cast about to find a reason for this

variation--lo and behold! the sixth button once more become visible. how

be this? have I unconsciously shift to high ground, or be it, could

it be possible that the tide have turn, that the water have begin to

recede? the agonising suspense of the next five minute be one of the

most severe mental trial I have ever experience. though I have speak

lightly on the subject, I have in fact make up my mind to face death as

a man and a Christian should do, and be prepared to meet my fate

calmly and resolutely; but now the uncertainty, the renew hope of life

struggle with the fear of a possibly approach death become almost

unbearable, and have the conflict be prolong my presence of mind

would have entirely desert I. Less than five minute, however, serve

to set the matter at rest. the sixth button be leave high and dry, the

fifth reappear, and be succeed by another and another; certain

landmark, whose immersion I have watch with anxious eye, again become

visible, and I be think of make a final effort to reach _terra

firma_ before the increase darkness should throw new difficulty in

the way, when my ear be greet by a distant ‘Halloo.’ I shout in

reply, and soon have the satisfaction of perceive a flat-bottom

boat make towards I, propel by my host and the old man who I have

conceive basely to have desert I. as they draw I, half-cripple

with cold and exhaustion, into the boat, Fenwick begin harangue I in

a composite strain of upbraiding and condolence, but I cut he short by

raise my head as I lay souse in a puddle at the bottom of the punt,

and murmur in a faint voice--‘Never mind, old fellow, it’s all right,

for _I’ve get the Podiceps Cornutus_.’ and touch that same bird, here

we be at the stuffer’s shop; so come along in, and I’ll show he to you

bodily.”



a week have elapse since the morning on which the above conversation

take place, a week in which many event have occur. the mighty

Nonpareil, still consider the _via medium_ a promising investment, have

condescend graciously to purchase Rose’s manuscript, and when Frere,

who bring she the intelligence, place in her hand a cheque for

£100, which, rely on her profound ignorance of business form, he have

kindly substitute for the publisher’s bill at six month, she receive

it with a start of delight. the girl be so happy! she have at length

realise her darling project; she have, by her own exertion, help to

lighten Lewis’s burden; she have do something towards shorten his

period of banishment, for such she consider his enforce residence at

Broadhurst. poor Rose! she have not a particle of avarice in her whole

nature, and yet never do miser rejoice over his hoard as she do

over that hundred pound; for it be by no mean to be spend--that,

fortunately, be unnecessary, as Mrs. Arundel, albeit want mental

ballast in some point, be a notable housewife, and as for Rachel, she

be a very dragon in her care of that Hesperides, the larder; so that

out of the liberal allowance Lewis make to they, his mother and sister

be privately save a small fund, destine, as they fondly hope,

to advance at some future time his fortune; and to this store Rose’s

hundred pound would make a magnificent addition. and the joy it be

to she thus to dedicate it! could she have purchase with it the most

desirable match in England, the hand of that identical young duke who

be exhibit to correct radical tendency at the electioneer ball

at Broadhurst, his grace might have die a bachelor ere Rose would have

divert the money from its appoint purpose. but something ought to be

do with it. Rose have hear of compound interest; nay, she have even have

its nature explain to she; and though at the end of the explanation

she be more in the dark than at the beginning, she attribute that to

her own obtuseness, and content herself with recollect that it be

something which begin by double itself, and go on double itself,

and something else, until--she do not know exactly what; so she

supply the blank by add, until the desire result should be

attain. and now, recall the definition thus attain, she decide

that the advisable thing would be to place she hundred pound in the

most favourable situation for catch that desirable epidemic, compound

interest. accordingly, with much diffidence, and a just appreciation of

the very hazy nature of her dissolve view in regard to the investment

of capital generally, Rose communicate her idea to Frere. that

gentleman hear she out with a good-humour smile play around the

corner of his mouth. “well,” he say, as she conclude, “you be but a

woman after all, I see!”



“why, what have you take I for hitherto, then?” demand Rose.



this very pertinent inquiry appear somewhat to puzzle the individual

to whom it be address, for he push his hair back from his forehead

and rub his chin with an air of perplexity ere he answer, “if

I be what they call a lady’s man, which mean a conceited puppy, I

should grin at you to show my white tooth, and reply, ‘an angel;’ but

see that _man_ be make a little low than the angel--though, by

the way, that’s a mistranslation--and that woman be inferior to man,

to call a woman an angel be to be guilty of a logical absurdity, and be

only to be excuse in the case of lover, who, as man labour under

a mental delusion--temporary monomaniac, in fact--be scarcely to be

look upon as rational being.”



“but if you be not a puppy, and I be not an angel, both which

proposition I be perfectly ready to admit, why do you consider it

necessary to enunciate your apparent discovery that, after all, I be

_only_ a woman?” inquire Rose.



“because, if you must know,” growl Frere, at length fairly bring to

bay, “you have hitherto talk so much sense, and so little nonsense,

that I’ve look upon you more as a man than a woman. you want the

truth, and now you’ve get it,” he continue in a tone like the rumble

of distant thunder, as Rose, clap her hand in girl-like delight at

having elicit this confession, reply with a low, silvery laugh, “I

think so! I fancy that be it! oh, the conceit of these lord of

the creation! and now that you have find out that I be not the mental

Amazon your fancy paint I, do you intend _quite_ to give I up?”



as she say this, half playfully, half in earnest, raise her calm,

grey eye, which now sparkle with unwonted animation, to his face,

Frere experience a (to he) entirely new sensation. he be for the

first time conscious of the effect produce by



                        “the light that lie



                        in woman’s eye,”



and he feel--unreasonable as he could not but consider it--that he

be well pleased with Rose as she be than if she have be Professor

Faraday himself; than whom (bar Sir Isaac Newton) Frere’s mind be

incapable of conceive a more exalt type of male humanity. the way in

which he express the gentle sentiment which have steal into his breast

be as follows:--



“don’t talk such rubbish, but listen to a little common sense, and try

and comprehend it, if you can, for once in your life. you want this

money invest for Lewis’s benefit, don’t you?” receive a reply in the

affirmative, he continue, “well, then, have you sufficient confidence

in I to trust it entirely in my hand to invest as I think well?”



“I should be indeed ungrateful if I have not,” return Rose, the tear

spring to her eye, as she remember frere’s many act of kindness

to her father.



“Psha! stuff! I don’t mean anything of that kind,” rejoin

Frere, provoke with himself for having recall such distressing

recollection, “only you woman be so ready to trust anybody till

you’ve be let in for it two or three time, and then you’re just as

unreasonable the other way, and suspect every one whether they deserve

it or not; however, as I believe I’m indifferent honest, I’ll take this

money, if you wish it, and do the good I can with it. Lewis shall not

be always a tutor if we can help it, though it’s wonderful how content

he’s grow lately--so as he lash out too when he be first put in

harness.”



“you’ve observe the change, have you, Mr. Frere?” return Rose

interrogatively. “I have be rejoice in it exceedingly; it be just

what I could have wish, but dare not hope for. I attribute it in

great measure to his affection for poor Walter.”



“well, it may be so; no doubt the lad present an interesting

psychological study,” return frere reflectively, “though I rather

conceive it may be owe to his having take a like to----”



“Miss Grant and Miss Livingstone,” vociferate the Colossus of plush,

flinging open the door with a startling vehemence, the result of

an ebullition of temper consequent upon a severe rebuke he have

just receive from Minerva for mispronounce her patronymic, which

interruption prevent Frere from express his innocent conviction

that certain geological research in the neighbourhood of Broadhurst

constitute the charm that have so suddenly reconcile Lewis to his

dependent position.









CHAPTER XXXVI.--RECOUNTS “ye PLEASAUNTE pastymes and CUNNYNGE devyces”

 of one THOMAS BRACY.



Annie Grant introduce herself to Rose with that easy courtesy which

add so great a charm to the manner of a perfectly well-breed woman,

and Rose, as she gaze on she, think she have never behold anything so

lovely before. she be dress in--_Halt là!_ attention, young lady!

_favete_--no, _not linguis_; in the amiability of your nature you be

always ready enough to do that---_favete auribus_, listen and learn;

for I myself, the chronicler of this veritable history, be about to

vindicate the good use I make of those halcyon day when



                        “my only book



                        be woman’s look,”



and to prove that “folly” be not _all_ they teach I--for this I

assert and be prepared to maintain, that good taste in dress be not in

itself a folly, and only become so when the mind of a fool

(or fool-_ess_ as the case may be) exalt it to an undue pre-eminence.

Annie, be it remember, be a _blonde_, with just enough of the rise in

her cheek to prevent the lily from produce an appearance of ill

health. the month be June, the London season be at its height, and the

young lady have call upon Rose in her way to the second horticultural

fête at Chiswick Gardens. her bonnet be of white chip, from which a

small white ostrich feather tip with blue droop lovingly, as though

it seek to kiss the fair face beneath it. a _visite_ of light _blue

glacé_ silk have be fashion by the skill of an ingenious parisian

_modiste_, so as to suggest rather than conceal the exquisite form it

cover, beneath which the rich fold of a gown of pale fawn-colour

_Gros de Naples_, as uncreased as if, cherub-like, its wearer never sit

down, complete the costume; and a very become one it be, as we feel

sure all young lady of good taste will allow. Richard Frere, be

slightly acquaint with Minerva Livingstone, good-naturedly devoted

himself to that indurate speciman of the original granite formation,

who from her name and nature might possibly possess a geological

interest in his eye, and by try to macadamise she into small-talk,

enable the two girl to prosecute their acquaintance undisturbed. Rose,

little use to society, be shy and reserve before stranger, though

there be a quiet self-possession about she which prevent her manner

from appear _gauche_ or unformed. Annie, on the other hand, be in

the constant habit of receive and entertaining guest, make

conversation with a graceful ease which completely fascinate her

companion the only subject on which her fluency appear to desert she

be when she speak of Lewis, his kindness to Walter, and the valuable

service he have lately render her father; but the little she do say

show so much good taste and evince such genuine warmth of heart and

delicacy of feeling, that his sister be more than satisfied, and

settle in her own mind that if all the family be as charming in their

different way as be Miss Grant in her, Lewis’s contentment with his

present situation be no long to be wonder at.



“what a lovely, fascinating creature!” exclaim Rose enthusiastically,

as the door close on her visitor; “she be like some bright vision of a

poet’s dream.”



“she seem a cute, hard-head old lady, but she strike I as have

rather too much vinegar in her composition to induce one to covet much

of her society; olive be well enough in their way, but a man would not

exactly wish to dine upon they, either,” return Frere.



“who on earth be you talk about?” inquire Rose in astonishment.



“why, who should I be talk about, except Miss Livingstone?” return

frere gruffly. “have you ‘go stupid’ all of a sudden?”



“_You_ must have become blind,” retort Rose, “not to have observe

Miss Grant’s unusual grace and beauty; I wonder Lewis have never say

more about she.”



“bah!” growl Frere, “do you think your brother have nothing well to

do than to chatter about a woman’s pretty face? Lewis be, or be (for

his opinion on the subject seem to have be modify lately), a

confirm misogynist, and I’m very glad of it. nothing make I more

savage than to hear the confound puppy of the present day talk about

this ‘doosed fine woman’ or that ‘uncommon nice gal.’ if I happen to

have a sister or any other womankind belong to I, and they be to

make free with her name in that fashion, I should pretty soon astonish

some of their exquisite delicacy. well,” he continue, button up

his coat all awry, “I’m off, so goodbye;” and take Rose’s hand in his

own, he wring it with such force that a flush of pain overspread her

pale feature. observe this, he exclaim, “do I squeeze your finger

too hard? well, I be a bear, as Lewis say, that’s certain.” as he

speak he lay her hand in his own broad palm, and stroke it gently,

as though try to soothe an injured child, he continue, “poor little

thing, I don’t mean to hurt it;” then look innocently surprised as

Rose somewhat hastily withdraw it, he add, “what! ben’t that right

either? well, I see I’d well be off. I’ll look you up again in a day

or two, and if you want I you know where to find I.” so say, he

clatter downstairs, put on his hat hind-side before, and stride off,

walk at the rate of at least five mile an hour. as he pass the

church in Langham Place he overtake two gentleman engage in earnest

conversation: regardless of this he quicken his pace and strike the

young of the two a smart blow on the back, exclaim, “Bracy, my boy,

how be you?” the individual thus roughly salute immediately reel

forward as if from the effect of the blow, and encounter in his

headlong career an elderly female, whose dress bespeak she an upper

servant or thereabout, he seize she by the elbow and twirl she

round in the bewildering maze of an impromptu and turbulent waltz, which

he continue till an opportune lamp-post interpose and check his

terpsichorean performance. before his astonished partner have recover

breath and presence of mind sufficient to pour forth the first word of

a tide of angry remonstrance, Bracy interpose by exclaim in a tone

of the most bland civility--



“my dear madam, excuse this apparent liberty; really I be so completely

overpower that I would sink into the ground at your foot if it be

not for the granite pavement which is----”



[illustration: 0262]



here the good woman, having scarcely recover breath, gasp

vehemently, “it’s very hard, so it is----”



“which be,” continue Bracy, louder and with still deep

_empressement_, “as you justly observe, so very hard; but, my dear

madam, the fact of this case be yet hard. let I assure you my

offence, if you choose to stigmatise my late lamented indiscretion by so

harsh a name, be perfectly involuntary; simply an effect produce by

a too vehement demonstration of fraternal feeling on the part of my

particular friend Mr. Frere. allow I to introduce you--Outraged Elderly

Lady, Mr. Frere--Mr. Frere, Outraged Elderly Lady. ah, what a happy

meeting! as the ever-appropriate Swan observe, ‘fair encounter of two

most rare affection!’ or again, ‘Joy, gentle friend, joy and fresh

day of love accompany your heart.’”



“yes, it’s all wery fine,” exclaim the outraged one (suddenly find

her tongue), “to go frightening of respectible party out of their

wit, and then think to smooth ’em over with your blarneying word;

but if I could set eye on one of they lazy peliseman which be never to

be find when want, bless if I wouldn’t give you in charge for your

imperence, so I would.”



during the delivery of this speech Bracy have listen in an exaggerated

theatrical attitude of entrance attention, and at its conclusion

he exclaim, in a voice so intensely impassioned that it would have

ensure his success at any of the minor theatres--



               “oh! speak again; let mine enrapture ear



               drink the sweet accent of thy silvery voice.”



which sentiment procure for he the applause of a small male spectator

of the tender age of ten year, clothe in much dirt and a pair of adult

trouser on their last leg in every sense of the term, who express

his approval by nod complacently and remark, “wery well do;

ancore, I say.”



“come along,” exclaim Frere, seize Bracy’s arm and almost force

he away; “you’ll have a crowd round you directly. your companion have

take himself off long ago.”



“so he have,” return Bracy, look round. “now I call that mean, to

desert a friend in difficulty; more especially,” he add, as they

walk away together, “as the say difficulty be undertake wholly

and solely on his account.”



“on his account?” return frere in surprise; “why, I should have

think the mighty De Grandeville be the last person likely to

appreciate a street row.”



“for which reason I never lose an opportunity of involve he in one,”

 reply Bracy, rub his hand with mischievous glee. “he cann’t bear

walk with I, for I always get he into some scrape or other, and

injure his dignity irreparably for the time be. why, the last

severe frost we have I meet he in Pall Mall, draw he on to talk of

architecture, point out to he a mistake which don’t exist in the

front of one of the club-house, and while he be look up at it

beguile he on to a slide and upset he, quite inadvertently, into

an itinerant orange basket, just as Lady B--------, with whom he have

a bow acquaintance, be pass in her carriage. look at he now,

prance along as if all Regent Street belong to he! walk a little

fast, and we shall overtake he; and, by the way, lend I that

wonderful cotton umbrella of your; I’ll make he carry it right down to

the Home Office. you be bind for Westminster, be you not?”



“what make you guess that?” ask Frere, hand he the umbrella.



“because there’s a meeting at the Palaeontological to-day at three, and

I know you’re one of their great gun,” be the reply.



“it’s my belief that you know everything about everybody,” return

Frere, laugh.



“and you know everything about every-_thing_” rejoin Bracy,

“so between we we form an epitome of human knowledge. I say, De

Grandeville,” he continue, as they overtake that gentleman, “you be a

treacherous ally, to desert your comrade in the moment of danger. that

ferocious old woman abuse I within an inch of my life, and want to

give I in charge to a policeman.”



“know you have an equal aptitude for get into and out of scrape

of that nature,” return De Grandeville, “I--ar--consider you fully

equal to the situation--and--ar--have no taste for bandy slang with

vituperative plebeian female, I leave you to fight your own battle. be

I not justify in do so, Mr. Frere?”



“well, Bracy be the aggressor, I suppose you be,” be the answer;

“but as I be the innocent first cause of the scrimmage I feel bind

to remain, and drag Bracy away by main force, just in time, as I

imagine, to save he from the nail of the insulted matron.”



“by Jove! what a nuisance. I do believe I’ve break my trouser strap,”

 exclaim Bracy, stop and elevate his boot on a doorstep. “hold

this one moment while I try to repair damage, there’s a good fellow,”

 he continue, thrust the umbrella into De Grande-ville’s unwilling

hand; “I’ll be with you again directly.”



the damage must have be serious, judge by the length of time they

take to remedy; for ere Bracy rejoin they, Frere and De Grandeville

have proceed half the length of Regent Street, the latter carry the

umbrella--which he regard from time to time with look of the most

intense disgust--so as to keep it as much out of sight as possible, even

secrete it behind he whenever he perceive a fashionably dress man

or woman approach.



“I be try to recollect that very interesting anecdote you tell I

of the attack on the barrack in Galway when you be stay with the

73rd--Frere have never hear of it,” observe Bracy as he rejoin his

companion.



now this say anecdote relate to an episode in De Grandeville’s career

to which he delight to refer, and which, accordingly, most of those

who boast the honour of his acquaintance have hear more than once..

such indeed be the case with Frere, and he be just go to say so

when he catch a warning look from Bracy, which induce he to remain

silent.



“Ar--really, it be a very simple thing,” begin De Grandeville, fall

into the trap most unsuspiciously. “I happen to know several of

the 73rd fellow who be quarter down in Galway at a place

call--ar--here’s your umbrella.”



“I beg your pardon! I do not quite catch the name,” return Bracy,

who, having bury his finger in the pocket of his paletot, do not

seem to have such a thing as a hand about he.



“at a place call Druminabog,” continue De Grandeville. “the country

be in a very disturbed state; one or two attack of a rather serious

character have be make upon the police, and the military have be

call out to support they; ar--here’s your um---”



“be it three or four year ago that all this take place?” inquire the

still handless Bracy.



“four year on the second of last April,” return De Grandeville.



“be you sure it ben’t the first?” mutter frere aside.



“I be travel on a business tour in the sister island,” continue

the narrator, “and meet Osborne, a 73rd man, who be go down

to join his regiment, he persuade I to come on with he to

Druminabog--ar--here’s your-----”



“be that Tom Osborne, who sell out when the rifle be go to

Ceylon?” interpose Bracy, studiously ignore the proffered umbrella.



the victimised De Grandeville reply in the affirmative, and resume

his tale, soon grow so deeply interested in the recital of his own

heroic exploit that the umbrella cease any long to afflict he; nay,

so absorbed do he become, that in a moment of excitement, just as he

be pass the Horse Guards, he wave that article in the air and lead

on an imaginary company of the 73rd therewith, after the fashion of

gallant commander in panorama of Waterloo, and battle scene enact

at the amphitheatre of Astley. as they approach the Home Office, and

De Grandeville have arrive at the conclude sentence of his narrative,

which run as follows:--“And so, sir, the Major shake I warmly by the

hand, exclaim, ‘De Grandeville, you’re worthy to be one of we, and I

only wish you be, my boy!’” the trio pause, and Bracy extract one

hand from the pocket in which it have be repose, remark, with the

air of a man who consider himself slightly aggrieve but mean to make

the good of it--



“now, if you please, I’ll trouble you for my umbrella; I do not like

to interrupt your story by ask for it soon, but now, if you have no

objection, I shall be glad of it.”



“certainly,” reply De Grandeville, only too glad (his attention be

once more attract to it) to get rid of his incubus.



as Frere turn aside to hide a laugh, Bracy inquire, “by the way, De

Grandeville, do you dine at Lady Lombard’s next Tuesday?”



“_i_ do,” reply Frere; “and I suppose it’s to be one of her Lord

Mayor’s feast, as I hear she’s beat up recruit in all quarter.”



“Ar--really--I’ve receive an invitation--but I--ar-- ’pon my word,

I don’t know whether one’s justify in go to such place; one must

draw the line--ar--somewhere.”



“it will be a first-rate feed,” resume Bracy. “Lady Lombard’s _chef_ be

a capital hand, and her wine be by no mean to be despise.”



“yes, but the woman herself,” rejoin De Grandeville in a tone of the

deep disgust, “just retrace her degrading career--ar--not an ancestor

to begin the world with.”



“well, I should have suppose she possess her fair share in Adam and

Noah, too,” remark Frere drily.



“Plebeian in origin,” continue De Grandeville, not heed the

interruption, “she sink herself still lower by espouse first a

pickle-merchant, secondly a pawnbroker; the first--ar--repulsive, the

second sordid.”



“she do not play her card altogether badly, though,” observe

Bracy. “Old Girkin die worth a plum, and Sir Pinchbeck Lombard be a

millionaire, or thereabout.”



“Money, sir,” return De Grandeville sententiously, “be by no mean to

be despise, and those who affect indifference on the subject usually

do so to screen a grasping and avaricious temperament. but money become

really respectable only when it enable those who be connect with the

old historical family of England, those in whose vein run the ‘blue’

blood of aristocracy, to assert their rightful position as lord of the

soil. among the land gentry of England be to be found------”



“some thoroughly jolly fellow,” interpose Bracy, “especially to show

you the way across country, or help to kick up a shindy at the

Coal Hole. but we must part company here; Frere’s book for the

Palaeontological, and I be go to attend a Committee at the House

you’ll be at Lady Lombard’s?”



“I shall give the matter full consideration,” return De Grande-ville.

“it be--ar--by no mean a step to decide on hastily. in these levelling

day man of--ar--position be force to be particular as to the place

to which they afford the--ar--sanction of their presence. I wish you a

very good morning;” so say, he raise his hat slightly to Frere, draw

himself up with his broad chest well throw forward, and march off

majestically like a concentrated squadron of heavy dragoon.



“here’s your umbrella, Frere,” remark Bracy, hand it to he as he

speak; “many thank for the loan. I don’t wonder you be careful of it;

it’s a most inestimable property, and have afford I half-an-hour’s

deep and tranquil enjoyment. but of all the pompous fool that ever

walk this earth Grandeville be _facile princep_.”



“he’s no fool either,” return Frere.



“then why do he behave as _sich?_” demand Bracy. “his conceit and

egotism be inconceivable. he’s a regular modern cyclop; he have one

great ‘I’ in the middle of his forehead, through the medium of which he

look at everything. one really feel an obligation to poke fun at that

man. well, I cann’t accuse myself of neglect of duty in that particular,

that’s a consolatory reflection; but he’s enough to convert the slow

old anchorite that ever chew pea into a practical joker.”



“he be severe on the excellent Lady Lombard,” observe his companion.



“do you not notice his remark about rich be respectable only when

in the possession of ‘--ar--those connect with the old historical

family of England’? that give I a new idea.”



“a thing always worth have, if but from its rarity,” reply Frere.

“what be it?”



“why, it occur to I what fun it would be to marry he to Lady

Lombard--more particularly after his abuse of she to-day.”



“a project more easy to conceive than to execute,” return frere,

laugh.



“I don’t know that,” answer Bracy confidently; “if I once set my mind

on a thing, I generally contrive to accomplish it. it do not at first

sight appear likely that De Grandeville would carry your old cotton

umbrella through some of the most fashionable street in London at three

o’clock in the afternoon, yet you see he do it.”



“you’re a remarkable man, my dear Bracy, and I have the great

faith in your power of management, but if you can induce Marmaduke de

Grandeville to marry the widow of the pawnbroker and the pickle-man,

you must be the very--well, never mind who--here we be at the

Palaeontological.”



so say, Frere shake hand with Bracy, and the oddly consort

companion, between whom their very eccentricity appear to

constitute a bond of sympathy, each go his way, the practical joker

to apply his acute intellect to the detail of that mighty machine, the

executive government of England, and the _savant_ to investigate

the recently discover small rib (it be only eight foot long) of a

peculiar specie of something-osaurus, the original proprietor of the

rib be popularly suppose to have “live and love,” cut its awful

tooth, and be gather to its amphibious fossil forefather two

thousand year and some odd month before the creation of man.









CHAPTER XXXVII.--WHEREIN be FAITHFULLY depict the constancy of the

TURTLE-DOVE.



it be the important Thursday on which Lady Lombard’s chief

dinner-party of the season be to take place, and the mighty come

event cast a proportionate shadow before. for a day or two previous

a gloom, as of an approach tempest, hang over the devoted mansion.

visitor be scarce; the invited would not call because they _be_

invite, and the non-invited avoid the place as though it be

plague-stricken, lest it should be suppose they wish to be invite,

which for the most part they do. as the event draw near sign

appear herald its approach: shoal of fishmonger, laden with the

treasure of the deep, pour down the area step; the number of oyster

which enter that house would have surprise Neptune himself; squadron

of poulterer’ man bring flock of feather fowl, and of fowl

unfeathered; there be not a single specie of edible ornithology of

which Lady Lombard do not possess one or more specimen--she would have

order a _Podiceps Cornutus_ have she ever hear of such a creature. the

eighty-guinea advertisement-horse, with the plate harness, in Messrs.

Fortnum & Mason’s spring cart, begin to think his master must have

establish a depot in the far west, and that he be engage in

transport thither the major portion of their seductive stock. in the

interior of that dwelling-house confusion reign supreme. Upstairs

Mrs. Perquisite, the housekeeper, render life a burden to the female

servant, and tyrannise over her hapless mistress till free will became

a mockery mention in connection with that ever-thwart widow. it be

enough for Lady Lombard to express a wish; Mrs. Perquisite, a living

embodiment of the antagonistic principle, be instantly in arm to

oppose it.



“what, your ladyship!” would she exclaim (and be it observe, her voice

be at least an octave high than any good-temper woman’s ever be,

and pitch in a most aggravating key); “what! not uncover the marble

table! I never hear of such a thing! her ladyship _will_ have it take

off, Jane--not uncover that bootiful Paria marble! inlay with Lappuss

lazily. why, your ladyship must be a-dreaming!”



“I think that the satin cover match the chair, and have poor

dear Sir Pinchbeck’s arm embroider on it, perhaps it might have be

well to leave it on, Mrs. Perquisite,” plead Lady Lombard meekly.



“of course your ladyship can do as your ladyship please; if your

ladyship like to demean yourself by look after such thing,

which be never the case when I live with the Dowager Marchioness of

Doubledutch, now no more, having remember all her faithful servant

handsomely on her death-bed, without a dry eye about she, in the

seventy-sixth year of her age. perhaps I have well go downstairs, which

be only in the way, and your ladyship can direct Jane to set out the

room accord to your ladyship’s fancy.”



Poor Lady Lombard, when once that defunct Dowager Marchioness be let

loose upon she, feel that her fate be seal. it be not for she, the

widow of a man who have be knight, to fly in the face of the peerage;

so she humbly authorise the removal of the Lombard arm, implore

Perquisite to arrange the room as she have be accustom to set out

those of the poor dear Marchioness, and betook herself to the sanctity

of her own boudoir, leave the field to the virago, to whom she pay

£60 per annum for keep she in a continual state of moral bondage.



but while such scene as the foregoing be enact in the upper

portion of the establishment, the French _chef de cuisine_, Monsieur

Hector Achille Ulisse Abelard d’Haricots, be make a perfect

Pandemonium of the low region. the physical energy display by that

accomplish foreigner be truly admirable, his ubiquity be marvellous;

the tassel at the top of his white night-cap appear to have be

multiply infinitesimally and to pervade space, the sound of his

polyglot exhortation and reflection re-echo through the lofty

servant’ office. wonderful be the strange oath he pour forth,

when Antoine, a long, limp, shamble french lad, “_son élève_, zie son

of--_hélas! baigné des larme_, he even till at present scarcely could

pronounce her name--his angelic sister, since some time entomb,

having espouse _un brave Anglais_, his long-lose Louise Amélie

Marie-Antoinette de Brownsmit, née d’Haricots,”--when this unworthy

offspring of international alliance commit some unpardonable artistic

error, and unlike “Polly” of lyrical celebrity, do _not_ “put the

kettle on,” or “take it off again,” exactly at the critical moment. deep

and nasal be his ejaculation when some obtuse butcher’s boy would

not understand his “Anglishe,” which that somewhat apocryphal personage,

“_ce brave garçon_ Brownsmit” (who be Hector Achille’s Mrs. Harris,

and be consequently bring forward on all occasion), have declare he

speak like a native.



“_Mais, que diable!_ vot be zie?” he would exclaim, raise his

eyeglass to examine with a face of deep disgust a shin of beef; “vot

be zie? do I not ordaire _un gigot_, vot you call a leg of ship, and

’ere you ’ave transport to me--_ah, que c’est dégoutant!_--zie

stump of a cow: _qu’ils sont bête, ce Anglais_--takes ’Im avay.”



but if there be earthquake and tornado in the culinary and

decorative department, difficulty hydra-head have arise in the

boudoir of Lady Lombard, where sit a council of three, Rose merely

act as secretary and write just what she be bid. the third

privy councillor (besides the giver of the feast and Mrs. Arundel) be a

certain Mrs. Colonel Brahmin, relict of the late Colonel Brahmin, which

gallant officer have be cut off in the prime of life, together with 200

tawny private of the----th native infantry, by fall into an ambush

of armed Sikhs, head by Meer Ikan Chopimatoo at Choakumcurree. after

this afflict event Mrs. Colonel Brahmin return to England, in the

thirty-third year of her age, with a small pension, a very become

widow’s cap, and an earnest desire to replace the victim of Ikan

Chopimatoo’s scimitar without loss of time.



now, in bygone hour the lamented Sir Pinchbeck Lombard, in his capacity

of East India director, have know and patronise the lamented brahmin;

what, therefore, could be more natural than that their disconsolate

widow should desire to mingle their tear? and, indeed, Mrs. Colonel

Brahmin be so anxious to ensure the effectual working of this

mutual-misery-mingle Association, that on her return to England she

be good enough to stay six month with Lady Lombard; and although,

during the whole of that period, she tell every one she be anxiously

look out for a house, so few edifice be there in London and its

vicinity, that she be unable to find one till the very week before she

hostess be about to start on a self-defensive tour to the Lakes. since

then she have be vizi-in-chief to her wealthy sister in affliction,

ride in her carriage, eat her dinner, and entertain her guest,

especially such eligible male as appear likely to succeed to the

(nominal) command leave vacant by the cut-off colonel; but up to the

present time these young eligible have remain unattached, and the

appointment be still to be fill up. Mrs. Brahmin be not really

pretty, though, by dint of a pair of fine eye, glossy hair, a telling

smile, and little white hand, she contrive to pass as such. in her

manner she affect the youthful and innocent; and very well she do

it, consider her natural astuteness, and the amount of experience and

_savoir vivre_ she have acquire when follow the world-wide fortune

of the cut-off one. Lady Lombard believe in she to a great extent, and

like she well than she deserve. Perquisite see at a glance, not

only through, but considerably _beyond_ she, and hate she with all

the rancour of a vulgar mind. but Mrs. Brahmin be too strong for

Perquisite, and with her soft voice and imperturbable simplicity put

she down more thoroughly than the veri virago could have do--the

housekeeper’s most bitter speech and cut innuendo produce much

the same effect on the mild Susanna that a blow might have do upon an

air-cushion--viz., exhaust the aggressor’s strength without make

the slight impression on her opponent.



Mrs. Brahmin have be prepare to find in Mrs. Arundel a dangerous

rival, and be ready to defend her position to the death, and to battle

_à l’outrance_ for her portion of the Lombard loaf and fish. but her

courage be not destine to be put to the proof, the present be an

occasion on which an appeal to arm be unnecessary--diplomacy would

suit her purpose well, and on diplomacy, therefore, she fall back. she

have not be ten minute in Mrs. Arundel’s company ere she discover

her weak point--she be unmistakably vain. accordingly, with artless

simplicity, Mrs. Brahmin indirectly praise everything Mrs. Arundel say

or do, and Mrs. Arundel straightway suffer her discrimination to be

tickle to sleep, take Mrs. Brahmin at her own price, and dote on

she from that time forth, until--but we will leave event to develop

themselves in their due course.



Rose and Mrs. Brahmin be mutual enigma--neither could comprehend the

other. Rose have hear the detail of the “Chopimatoo” affair, and all

her sympathy be ready to be enlist in behalf of the interesting

widow; but the “sweet simplicity,” cleverly as it be do, do not

deceive she. with the instinct of a true nature she feel that it be

assume, and that beneath it lie the real character. what that might

be remain to be discover, and she suspend her judgment till

opportunity might afford she a glimpse of that which be so studiously

conceal. on the other hand, the character of Rose be one which Mrs.

Brahmin could by no means comprehend, perhaps because in its entireness

it be beyond and above her comprehension; but part of it she discern

clearly enough, and most particularly do they puzzle she. for instance,

she perceive that Rose have a mind, properly so call--that her idea

and opinion be _bona fide_ the product of her own intellect, and not

like those of too many girl, a dim reflex of somebody else’s; but the

straightforward, earnest truthfulness of her nature she could by no

mean fathom, such a quality be essentially foreign to her own

disposition; accordingly, she deem it put on for a purpose, which

purpose it behove she to find out. but her investigation do not

prosper well, from the simple fact that _ex nihilo nil fit_: rose,

have nothing to conceal, conceal it effectually.



many and important be the consultation hold in the boudoir by this

council of three, as to who should, and who should not, be invite. Lady

Lombard’s smooth brow grew furrow with the unwonted demand upon her

power (?) of mind.



“Sir Benjamin and Lady Boucher regret exceedingly that a previous

engagement prevent their accept Lady Lombard’s kind invitation for

Thursday, the--th.”



“dear I, how _dreadfully_ provoke!” sigh the perplexed

“in-vitress.”



“my dear Susanna” (the Brahmin’s Christian name), “the Bouchers be

engage, and there’ll be nobody fit to meet the General Gudgeons. what

be we to do?”



“would you ask the Dackerels? they’re such very nice people, and live in

such very good style, dear Lady Lombard,” coo Mrs. Brahmin (for, be it

observe, that bereave one’s method of speak, together with the

low, gentle, sleepy, caress tone of her soft voice, involuntarily

remind her hearer of the cooing of a dove or the purring of a cat).



“they’re only lieutenant-colonel, be they, my love?” inquire Lady

Lombard doubtingly.



“oh! my dear Lady Lombard, surely you must recollect he have be a full

colonel, by purchase, these five year, _vice_ Rawbone Featherbed,

who sell out and marry an heiress--at least,” murmur Innocence,

remember herself, or rather her _part_, “she be say to be very

rich; but of course it must have be a love-match. I cannot believe

people be so--so horrid as to marry from any other motive.”



“well, then, we’d well ask the Dackerels. Miss Arundel, my love, will

you request the pleasure of Colonel and Mrs. Dackerel’s company--with

one r, my dear--at seven o’clock. that shy son with the long leg, I

suppose we need not ask he, my dear?”



“he’s lately come into a large yorkshire property from an uncle on the

mother’s side and have take the surname of Dace, and perhaps, as he’s

so shy, he might feel hurt at not be ask. I feel such sympathy with

shyness, you know; besides, somebody say he be an author,”

 rejoin Susanna, drop her eyelid and look as unconscious and

disintereste as if John Dace Dackerel Dace, Esq., barrister-at-law,

still depend upon that ghost of nothing, his professional income,

instead of the rent-roll of the manor of Roachpool, in the West Riding.



“if they come they’ll make--let I see,” muse Lady Lombard; “what do

I say the Fitzsimmons’s be? yes, twelve; well, then, they’ll make

fifteen, and the table only hold three more, and that tiresome Mr. De

Grandeville haven’t send an answer yet, and I shall be so disappointed if

he do not come, for he know everybody and move in such high society,

and be such a tall, noble, military-look creature.”



this eulogium recalling, probably by contrast (see that the lamented

Brahmin have be remarkably small of his age all through his boyhood,

and never outgrown it afterwards), sad recollection of the fair

Susanna’s kill and wound, produce a little embroider handkerchief

which just hold the two tear its owner felt call upon to shed on such

occasion. the memory of the victim have, however, be so often before

embalm by pearly drop in her presence that Lady Lombard have grow

rather callous on the subject, and she abruptly invade the sanctity of

grief by exclaiming--



“it lie between the Lombard Browns and the Horace Hiccirys, my dear.

the Hiccirys live in well style, I know: Mrs. Hicciry be to have

be present at Court last year, only little Curatius choose to be bear

instead--the most lovely child! but the Lombard Browns be godson, at

least _he_ be, of poor dear Sir Pinchbeck’s, and they’ve not dine here

this season.”



“I think, dear Lady Lombard, if I might venture to advise, the Horace

Hiccirys would do well. Mrs. General Gudgeon would get on so well with

Mrs. Hicciry, I’m sure; and I’m afraid Mrs. Dackerel,--you know she’s

very clever, write poetry, those sweet thing in the Bijou--all clever

people be sarcastic, you know,--I’m afraid Mrs. Dackerel might laugh at

poor dear Mr. Lombard Brown’s little eccentricity about his h’s.”



“ah, yes, that’s true,” return Lady Lombard; “yes, I forget his h’s.”



“as he probably do himself,” whisper Mrs. Arundel aside to Rose.



“then, my dear Miss Arundel, may I trouble you to write a note to the

Horace Hicciry’s--with two I’s, my love--15 Bellairs Terrace, Park

Village West. what a pretty hand you write, and so quick I then if Mr.

De Grandeville will only come, the table will be fill properly.”



“and a dear, charming party it will be,” coo the bereaved one, who

have manoeuvre herself into an invitation at an early stage of the

proceeding.



“yes, my love, I hope it will,” reply the giver of the feast

anxiously. “and if I be quite sure that Perquisite and Haricot would

not quarrel, and that General Gudgeon would not take too much port wine

after dinner, and tell his gentleman’s story to the lady up in the

drawing-room, more particularly since I hear Miss MacSalvo have take an

extra serious turn lately, I should feel quite happy about it all.”



“you’d well add a postscript to the great Gudgeon’s note mention

the port wine and its alarming consequence, Rose,” whisper the

incorrigible Mrs. Arundel. her daughter smile reprovingly, and the

sitting conclude.



exactly at the time when Lady Lombard have completely give he up, and

be revolve in her anxious mind how she might well supply his loss, De

Grandeville condescend graciously to vouchsafe a favourable answer.



on the afternoon of the eventful day, as Frere be return from

his place of business, he meet--of course accidentally--Tom Bracy, who

immediately take possession of his vacant arm and engage he in a

disquisition on the use of formic acid as an anaesthetic agent, which

discussion prove so deeply interesting to his companion, that in less

than five minute he be completely lose to all outward object and

reduce (for all practical purpose) to the intellectual level of a

docile child of three year old.



“well,” continue frere eagerly, as Bracy pause before a hairdresser’s

shop, “well, supposing, for the sake of argument, I consent to waive

my objection; suppose I allow that by the process you describe you’ve

produce your acid----”



“excuse my interrupting you one moment, but I be go in here to have

my hair cut. if you’re not in a particular hurry, perhaps you’ll come in

with I, and I think I can show you where you be wrong.”



“yes--no, I’m not in a hurry; come along, I’m convinced there’s a

mistake in your theory which upset your whole argument--merely subject

to the common analysing process----”



“by the way,” observe Bracy carelessly, “you’d be all the well for

a little judicious trim yourself; besides, it’s more sociable. this

gentleman and I each want our hair cut. sit down, Frere.”



“eh? nonsense; I never have my hair cut except when the hot weather set

in,” remonstrate that individual; but he be fairly in the toil. Bracy

set a garrulous hairdresser’s man at he, who deprive he of his

hat, pop he down in the appoint chair, and envelop he in a

blue-stripe wrapper before he very well know where he be, or have

arrive at any kind of decision whatsoever on the subject. no soon be

he seat than Bracy administer a fresh dose of his anaesthetic agent;

Frere resume his argument, and long ere he have exhaust the catalogue

of chemical test to which his opponent’s theory (invent for the

occasion) might be subject, the hair-cutter (previously instruct)

have reduce his hair and whisker to the latitude and longitude usually

assign to such capillary attraction by the “manner and custom of ye

English in ye nineteenth century.” and thus Frere become, for the time

being, a reasonable look mortal, and Bracy win a new hat, which he

have bet that morning with a mutual acquaintance, on the apparently

rash speculation that he would before the day be over administer an

anaesthetic agent to Richard Frere, under the influence of which he

should have his hair cut.









CHAPTER XXXVIII.--DESCRIBES the HUMOURS of a LONDON DINNER-PARTY in THE

NINETEENTH CENTURY.



Dear Rose Arundel (excuse we the adjective, kind reader, for we

frankly own to be very fond of she), having be a perfect godsend to

everybody during the whole morning of the party day, having think

of everything and do everything, and look on the bright side of

everything, and sacrifice herself so pleasantly that an uninitiated

beholder might have imagine her intensely selfish and do it all for

her own personal gratification,--Rose having, amongst other gymnastic

of self-devotion, run up and down stair forty-three time in pursuit of

waif and stray from Lady Lombard’s memory, commit the first bit

of selfishness of which she have be guilty all day, by sit down

to rest for five minute before she begin her toilet; and lean

her forehead on her hand, think over her own chance of pleasure or

amusement during the evening. she have have one disappointment: Lewis

have be invite, and Lewis would not come. he do not say he could not

come, but he put on what Mrs. Arundel call his “iron-face,” and say

shortly, “the thing be impossible;” and no one could have look on his

compress lip and doubt the truth of the assertion. it grieve Rose,

for she read his soul as it be an open book before she, and she see

there pride, that curse of noble mind, still unsubdue. Lady Lombard

patronise they, and Lewis could not submit to witness it. Rose have

hope well thing than this; she have not fail to observe the change

that have take place in her brother during his residence at

Broadhurst; she see that from an ardent, impetuous boy he have become an

earnest-minded, high-souled man, and in the calm dignity of his look and

bear she recognise the evidence of conscious power, chasten by the

discipline of a mind great enough to rule itself. nor be she wrong in

her conjecture; only she mistook a part for the whole, and argue with

the gentle sophistry of a woman’s love heart, conclude that to be

finish which be but in fact begin. Lewis have learn to _control_

(except in rare instance) his haughty nature, but he rely too much on

his own strength, and so he have fail as yet to subdue it. Rose be

too honest to disguise the truth from herself when it be fairly place

before she, and she acknowledge, with an aching heart that the great

fault of her brother’s character yet remain unconquered. poor Rose! as

this conviction force itself upon she, how she sorrow over it. he

be so good, so noble, and she love he so entirely--oh! why be he not

perfect? if Lewis could have read her thought at that moment he would

have assuredly make one of the guest at Lady Lombard’s hospitable

board.



as the clock strike the half-hour, form the _juste milieu_ between

seven and eight, post meridiem, the goodly company assemble in Lady

Lombard’s drawing-room, be warn by the portly butler that dinner

be serve, pair off and betook themselves two by two (like the

animal come out of Noah’s Ark, as represent on the dissect

puzzle of childhood) to the lofty dining-room, where much english good

cheer, disguise under absurd french name, await they. during the

short time that Bracy have be in the house he have not be altogether

idle. he first take an opportunity of inform Lady Lombard that De

Grandeville be directly descend from Charlemagne, and that he be

only wait till the death of an opulent relative should render he

independent of his profession to revive a dormant peerage, when it be

generally suppose his colossal intellect and unparalleled legal

acuman would render he political leader of the House of Lords; he then

congratulate she on her good fortune in having secure the presence of

this illustrious individual, who, he assure she, be in such request

amongst the aristocracy of the kingdom that he be scarcely ever to be

find disengage, and wound up by run glibly through a long list of

noble name with whom he declare the mighty Marmaduke to be hand and

glove. accordingly, good Lady Lombard, believe it all faithfully,

mentally elect De Grandeville to the post of honour at her right hand,

depose for the purpose no less a personage than General Gudgeon.

when we say no less a personage, we speak advisedly, for that gallant

officer, weigh sixteen stone without his snuff-box, and be fully

six foot high, be, if not exactly “a Triton amongst minnow,” at all

event a Goliath amongst gudgeon, which we conceive to be much the same

thing.



having achieve his object of place De Grandeville in exactly the

position he wish he to occupy, Bracy next proceed to frustrate a

scheme which he perceive the fair Susanna (who be his pet antipathy)

to have originate for the amatory subjugation and matrimonial

acquisition of John Dace Dackerel Dace, Esq., of Roachpool, in the West

Riding. the aforesaid John D. D. have a weakness border indeed on a

mental hallucination; he fancy he be bear to be a popular author--“to

go down to posterity upon the tongue of man,” as he himself be willnot

to express it--and the way in which he attempt to fulfil his exalted

destiny and effect the wish-for transit, _viâ_ these unruly member of

his fellow-mortal, be by write mild, dull article, sign J. D. D.,

and send they to the editor of various magazine, by whom they be

always unhesitatingly reject.



the frequent repetition of these most unkind rebuff, and the consequent

delay in the fulfilment of his mission, have tend to depress the spirit

(at no time an intensely ardent one) of John Dace Dackerel, and have

induce a morbid habit of mind, through which, as through a yellow veil,

he take a jaundiced view of society at large; and even the acquisition

of the surname of Dace, and his accession to the glory of Roachpool,

have scarcely suffice to restore cheerfulness to this victim of a

postpone destiny. Bracy, from his connection with Blunt’s magazine,

know he well, and have reject, only a fortnight since, a forlorn

little paper entitle “the Curse of Genius, or the Trammelled Soul’s

Remonstrance;” in which his own cruel position be touchingly shadow

forth in the weak possible English. accost this son of sorrow in a

confidential tone of voice, Bracy began--



“as soon as you can spare a minute to listen to I, I’ve something

rather particular to tell you!”



“to tell I?” return the blighted barrister in a hollow voice,

suggestive of any amount of black crape hatband. “what ill news have

I now to arm, or I may say, to steel my soul against?” and here be it

observe that it be a habit with this pseudo-author to talk, as it

be, a rough copy of conversation, which he from time to time correct

by the substitution of some word or phrase which he conceive to be an

improvement upon the original text.



“perhaps it may be good news instead of bad!” remark Bracy

encouragingly. the blighted one shake his head.



“not for _I_” he murmur; then turn to Susanna, he continue,

“excuse my interrupt our conversation, but this gentleman have some

intelligence to impart--or I may say, to break to I.”



Mrs. Brahmin smile sweetly such a sympathetic smile that it go

straight through a black satin waistcoat, with a cypress wreath

embroider on it in sad-coloured silk, and reach the “crushed and

wither” heart of J. D. D. .



“you know,” continue Bracy, “I be oblige, most unwillingly, to

decline that touch little thing of your. the--what be it? the Cough

of Genius?”



“the Curse,” suggest its author gloomily.



“ah! yes. I read it cough--you don’t write very clearly--yes, * the

Cursing Genius.’ you know, my dear Dace, we editor be place in a

very try position. a great responsibility devolve upon we; we be

scarcely free agent. now your article affect I deeply” (this be

strictly true, for he have laugh over the most tragic touch till the

tear run down his cheek), “but I be force to decline it. I could not

have put it in if my own brother have write it. you will naturally ask,

why? _because it do not suit the tone of Blunt’s Magazine!_” and as

Bracy pronounce these awful and mysterious word he shake his head and

look unutterable thing; while the “child of a postpone destiny,”

 see the shadow of a still further postponement cloud his dark

horizon, shake his head likewise, and relieve his elaborately-work

shirt-front of a sigh.



“but,” resume Bracy, “think the paper much too original to be lose,

I take the liberty of hand it over to Bullbait, the Editor of the

Olla Podrida. well, sir, I see he this morning, and he said----”



“what?” exclaim the fated one eagerly, a hectic tinge colour his

sallow cheek.



“don’t excite yourself, my dear Dace,” rejoin Bracy anxiously; “you’re

look pale: too much brain work, I’m afraid. you must take care of

yourself; so many of our great genius have die young. but I see

you’re impatient. Bullbait say--he’s a very close, cautious character,

never like to commit himself, but he actually say, _he’d think about

it!_”



“be that all?” groan the disappointed Dace, relapse into

despondency.



“All! my dear sir? all! why, what would you have? when a man like

Bullbait say he’ll think about a thing, I consider it a case of _opus

operatum_--reckon the deed do. if he mean to refuse your paper, what

need have he to think about it? no, Mr. Dace, if you’re not correct

a proof of the ‘Cough’--psha, ‘curse,’ I mean--(when one once take a

wrong idea into one’s head how difficult it be to get it out again!)

before the week be over, I’m no prophet. by the way,” he continue,

as Rose, look well than pretty in the whitest of muslin frock,

resign a comfortable seat to a cross old lady in a gaudy turban, which

give she the appearance, from the neck upwards, of a plain male Turk,

liberally endow with the attribute commonly assign to his nation

by writer of fairytale and other light literature for the nursery,

amongst which man-stealing and cannibalism be two of the least

atrocious--“by the way, I must introduce you to this young lady; a

kindre soul, sir, one of the most rise authoress of the day.”



“no, I really----” begin the Dace, flap about in the extremity of

his shyness like one of his fishy namesake abstract from its native

element.



“nonsense,” resume Bracy, enjoy his embarrassment. “Miss Arundel,

let I have the pleasure of make you acquaint with one of our man of

genius, a writer to whom a liberal posterity will no doubt do justice,

however the trammelled sycophant of a clique may combine to delay his

intellectual triumph.” then in an aside to J. D. D. he add, “make

play with she; Bullbait want she particularly to write for the Olla,

and she hang back at present: she would merely have to say a word to

he, and you might obtain the run of the magazine.”



thus urge, John Dace, Dackerel Dace, Esq., call up all the energy

of his nature, and by their assistance overcome his habitual

sheepishness, he cause to descend upon Rose a torrent of pathetic

small-talk which overwhelm that young lady till dinner be announce,

when he claim her arm and float with she down the stream of

descend humanity until he find himself safely moor by her side at

the dinner-table.



Bracy have thus, as he would himself have express it, take the

change out of that odd fish Dace, and frustrate, for the time be,

the matrimonial tactic of the Brahmin’s widow, be make his way

through the various group of people in search of Miss MacSalvo, whose

rampant Protestantism might, he consider, afford he some sport if

judiciously handle, when he be suddenly intercept by the innocent

Susanna with the inquiry, “pray, Mr. Bracy, can you explain this

wonderful metamorphosis in your friend Mr. Frere? he’s grow quite

handsome.”



thus appeal to, Bracy regard attentively the individual in question,

who be good-naturedly turn over a book of print for Lady Gudgeon, a

little shrivel old lady, so deaf as to render conversation with she

a pursuit of politeness under difficulty. having apparently satisfy

himself by this investigation, Bracy reply, “to the good of my belief,

I should say he have only have his hair cut, and be for once dress like

a gentleman.”



“he be wonderfully clever, be he not?” inquire the lady.



“clever!” repeat Bracy. “that’s a mild word to apply to such

acquirement as Frere rejoice in. he know all the language, live or

dead; possess an intimate acquaintance with the art and science, have

all the ‘ology’ at his finger’ end, and be not only well up in the

history of man since the creation, but will tell you to a fraction how

many feed a day keep a Mastodon in good condition two or three thousand

year before we tailless monkey come into possession of our land

property.”



“I suppose, as he dress so strangely in general, that he’s very poor:

all clever people be, I believe,” return Susanna, with an air of the

most artless _naïveté_, the idea have for the first time occur to

she that, _faute de mieux_, the philosopher might do to replace the man

of war.



Bracy read her thought, and kindly invent a few fact and figure

by which he increase Frere’s income about sevenfold, and give he a

magnificent stock of expectation, regard the realisation whereof not

the most forlorn hope ever exist.



having do this small piece of mischief also, he continue his search

after Miss MacSalvo. the result of these machination be that Lady

Lombard signify to De Grandeville that he be to hand she down to

dinner; John Dace Dackerel Dace, Esquire, perform the same office by

Rose, much to the disgust of Richard Frere, who have intend to secure

that pleasure for himself, and who be, at the moment in which he

first become aware of his misfortune, capture by the brahminical widow,

whose silky manner he could not endure, go downstairs in a frame of

mind anything but seraphic. Mrs. Arundel contrive to gain possession

of General Gudgeon, with a view, as she observe to Bracy, to discover,

firstly, his system of feeding, which, from its result, she feel

sure must be an excellent one; and secondly, to ensure his obtaining

a liberal supply of port wine, to the end that she might satisfy a

reprehensible curiosity as to the precise nature of the “gentleman’s

story” Lady Lombard be so anxious to suppress; which act of

un-_English_-woman-like _espièglerie_ must be set down to the score of a

foreign education, than which we know not a well receipt for unsex

the mind of the daughter of Albion. when we add that Bracy, with a

face of prim decorum, escort Miss MacSalvo, a gaunt female, whose

spirit appear to have war with her flesh so effectually that there

be little more than skin and bone leave, we believe we have account

for every member of the party in whom our reader be likely to feel the

slight interest.



during the era of the fish and soup, by which our modern dinner be

invariably commence, little be discuss except the viand; but after

the first glass of sherry mute lip begin to unclose, and conversation

flow more freely. thus it come about that John Dace Dackerel Dace,

Esquire, of the Inner Temple (we admire his name so much that we lose no

opportunity of repeat it), having revolve in his anxious mind some

fitting speech wherewith to accost the talented young authoress, of whom

he feel no inconsiderable degree of dread, fortify himself with an

additional sip of sherry ere he propound the very original inquiry,

“whether Miss Arundel be fond of poetry?” before Rose could answer

this query her neighbour on the other side, one Mr. James Rasper, a

very strong young man with a broad, good-natured, dullish face, demand

abruptly, in a jovial tone of voice, “whether she be fond of ride?”



as soon as she could collect her sense, scatter by the rake fire of

this cross-examination, Rose reply “that she be particularly fond of

some kind of poetry,” which admission she qualify by the apparently

inapposite restriction--“When she be on a very quiet horse.”



J. D. D. be about to follow up his attack by a lead question in

regard to the gush pathos of the bard of Rydal, when Rasper prevent

he by exclaim, “no! do you really?” (which he call “railly”).

“then I know just the animal that would suit you.” and having thus

mount his hobby-horse he dash at everything, as be his willnot when

once fairly off, and rattle away, without stop, till dinner

be finish, and he have talk Rose completely stupid; while

the unfortunate Dace, foil in his weak attempt to captivate the

influential authoress, plunge again into the deep water of affliction,

where, ponder over this further postponement of his destiny, he sink,

and be hear no more.



exactly opposite to Rose and her companion sit Frere and the

simple Susanna, who, labour zealously at her vocation--viz.,

husband-hunting--throw away much flattery and waste an incalculable

amount of “sweetness on the desert air.” to all her pretty speech

Frere return monosyllabic reply in a tone of voice suggestive of

whole forest full of bear with sore head, while a cloud hang heavy

on his brow, and his bright eye flash envy, hatred, malice, and

all uncharitableness at the unconscious James Rasper. at last Susanna

chance to inquire whether he be fond of music; and as, without

falsifying fact, he could not answer this negatively, he be force to

reply, “yes; I like some sort of music well enough.”



“some sort only,” return Susanna in a tone of infantine artlessness.

“oh! you should like every kind, Mr. Frere. I never hear a merry tune

without longing to dance to it, and pathetic music affect I even

to tear. but what class of music be it that you particularly

prefer?--though I need scarcely ask--operatic, of course.”



“not i,” growl Frere; “I hate your opera.”



“oh, Mr. Frere!” exclaim Simplicity, fix its large eye

reproachfully upon he, “you cann’t mean what you say. not like opera!

why, they be perfectly delicious. look at a well-fill house--what a

magnificent _coup d’oil!_”



“a set of pigeon-hole full of fool, and a long row of fiddler,”

 rejoin frere; “I cann’t say I see much to admire in that. I go to one

of your opera last year, and a rare waste of time I think it. it be

one of Walter Scott’s Scotch story bewitch into Italian. there be

poor Lucy of Lammermoor dress out like a fashionable drawing-room

belle, singe duet all about love and murder with a pale-face,

moustachioed puppy, as much like Edgar Ravenswood as I be like the

Belvidere Apollo--a brute engage, on the strength of a tenor voice, to

make love to all and sundry for the space of four calendar month, for

which ‘labour of love’ he be pay to the tune of £500 a month, a salary

on which well man than himself contrive to live for a whole year.

then Lucy’s cruel mamma, who be the great feature in the novel, be

metamorphose into a rascally brother, who growl baritone atrocity

into the ear of a sympathise chorus of indigent needle-woman and

assistant carpenter, who act the nobility and gentry of Scotland

at half-a-crown a head and their beer. the first act be all love and

leave-taking, the second all cursing and confusion, and the third all

madness and misery: and that’s what people call a pleasant evening’s

amusement. the only thing that amuse I be in the last scene, when the

stipendiary lover kill himself first and sing a long scena afterwards.

I think that very praiseworthy and persevering of he, and if I’d be

Lucy such a little attention as that would have touch I particularly,

and I dare say it would have do she, only--see that she have die

rave mad some five minute before, and be then drink bottle

porter in her dressing-room for the good of her voice--she be perhaps

scarcely in a situation to appreciate it.”



“but if you don’t like the singing, I dare say you prefer the ballet?”

 suggest Susanna.



“no, I don’t,” be the short, sharp, and decisive reply.



“not like the ballet? oh! Mr. Frere, what can be your reason?” inquire

the surprised turtle-dove.



“well, I have a reason good and sufficient, but I shalln’t tell it to

you,” growl Frere; then mutter as an aside, which be, however,

sufficiently audible, “a set of jump Jezebels skip about in white

muslin kilt, for they’re nothing well; respectable people ought to be

ashamed of look at ’em.” having enunciate this opinion, Frere cast

a doubly ferocious glance at Mr. Rasper, then eloquently describe

to Rose the point of his favourite hunter, and relapse into surly

monosyllable, beyond which no amount of cooing could again tempt he.



Marmaduke de Grandeville, enthrone in state on the right hand of the

lady of the house, gaze regally around he, and in the plenitude of his

magnificence be wonderful to behold. but, after all, he _be_ human,

and the evident depth and reality of Lady Lombard’s admiration and

respect soften even he, so that ere long he graciously condescend

to eat, drink and talk--not like an ordinary mortal, for that he never

do, but like himself. for instance, the topic under discussion be

the new Houses of Parliament, then in even a more unfinished state than

they be at present, De Grandcville elaborately explain the whole

design, every detail of which he appear to have at his finger’

end--a fact for which he account when he allow it to be understand

that--“Ar--he have--ar--give Barry a hint or two--ar--that Barry be a

very sensible fellow, and not above--ar--act upon an idea when he see

it to be a good one;” and it must be own that as De Grandeville have

only once be in Mr. Barry’s company, on which occasion he have sit

opposite to he at a public dinner, he have make the good use of his

time, and not suffer his power of penetration to rust for want of

use. have in imagination put the finishing-stroke to the Victoria

Tower (one of the furth stretch of fancy on record, we should

conceive), he contrive to work the conversation round to military

matter, set General Gudgeon right on several point refer to

battle in the Peninsula at which the General have himself be present,

and give so graphic an account of Waterloo, that to this day

Lady Lombard believe he act as Amateur Aide-du-Camp and Privy

Counsellor-in-chief to the Duke of Wellington on that memorable

occasion. he then talk about the De Grandeville estate till every one

present believe he to be an immense land proprietor, and wound up

by the anecdote of William of Normandy and the original De Grandeville,

which, with a slight biographical sketch of certain later worthy of

the family (one of whom, Sir Solomon de Grandeville, he declare to have

suggest to King Charles the advisability of hide in the oak), last

till the lady quit the room, when, by Lady Lombard’s request, he

assume her vacant chair, and do the honour with dignified courtesy.



Bracy, who during dinner have appear most devoted to Miss MacSalvo,

now endeavour to render himself universally agreeable. he applaud

General Gudgeon’s story, and ply he vigorously with port wine,

which, as Mrs. Arundel have take care the servant do not neglect to

replenish his wine-glass at dinner, begin to tell upon he visibly.

he elicit the name, pedigree, and performance of all Mr. James

Rasper’s horse, and receive from that fast young man a confidential

statement of his last year’s bet account, together with a minute

detail of how he have execute that singular horticultural operation

clepe “hedge on the oak,” during which dry recital his throat

require constantly moisten with wine, in spite of which precaution

his voice grow exceedingly thick and husky before the sitting conclude.

on two individual of the party, however, all Bracy’s effort be

throw away: Frere continue silent and moody, only open his lip

occasionally, shortly and sternly to contradict some assertion, and

relapse into his former taciturnity; while J. D. D. sit silently

bewail his postpone destiny over a glass of water and two

ratafia cake, which seem to possess the singular property of never

diminish.



at length the gentleman rise to go upstairs, a matter easily

accomplish by every one but General Gudgeon, who make three

unsuccessful attempt to get under weigh, and then look helplessly

round for assistance. Bracy, the ever-ready, be at hand in an instant.



“my dear general, let I lend you an arm. you’re cramp from sit so

long.”



“tha-a-ank you, my dear bo-o-oy,” return the gallant officer, who

appear to have be seize with a sudden, wild determination to alter

the english language by divide monosyllable into three part, and

otherwise fancifully to embellish his mother-tongue. “Tha-a-ank you!

it’s that confou-wow-wow-nde gun-shot wound in my knee-ee. I get it at

Bu-Bu-Bu--no! not bucella. what be it, eh?”



“Busaco,” suggest Bracy, fear he have over-dose his patient.



however, when once the General get upon his leg he use they to

well advantage than might have be expect, and proceed upstairs,

“roll grand,” as that prince of clever-simple biographer (to adopt

one of Mrs. Browning’s double-barrel adjective), Boswell, say of

his ponderous idol. encounter Frere at the foot of the staircase, he

stumble against that gentleman with so much force as nearly to knock

he down. as he recover his footing Frere turn angrily towards his

assailant; but his irritation change to an expression of contemptuous

pity as his eye fall upon the white hair of General Gudgeon, and

step on one side, he allow he to pass. he be quietly follow,

when Mr. James Rasper, who have witness his discomfiture with an

ill-breed laugh, excite by the wine he have drank, attempt, by way of a

stupid practical joke, to repeat General Gudgeon’s involuntary assault,

and reckon Frere a good-natured, quiet sort of person, not likely to

resent such a jest, pretend to stumble against he, and push past

he when about half-way up the first flight of stair. never do a man

(to use a common but forcible expression) “mistake his customer” more

completely. in an instant Frere have collar he, drag he down a

step or two, then retain his grasp of the coat-collar, seize he

by the waistband of his trouser, and by a great exertion of strength,

swing he clear over the banister, lower he till his foot be about

a yard from the floor, and then let he drop. after which performance,

having glance round to see that his victim be not injure by the fall,

he coolly pursue his way upstairs.









CHAPTER XXXIX.--IS in two fytte--VIZ., FYTTE the FIRST, a sulky

FIT--FYTTE the SECOND, a fit of HYSTERICS.



Frere reach the drawing-room in a state of mind which the occurrence

relate in the last chapter have not tend to render more amiable. the

front room be evidently the more popular of the two, a numerous group

be gather round Mrs. Brahmin, who in the sweetest of mild soprano

be daintily coo forth a plaintive love-ditty, which be evidently

tell well with John Dace, D.D. avoid the crowd, Frere make his

way into the back drawing-room, which, bar an ardent flirtation in

a corner between two poor young thing who could not, by the most remote

possibility, marry for the next fifteen year, be unoccupied. here

seat himself astride across a chair as if it have be a horse, and

lean his arm on the back, he fall into a deep fit of musing. from

this he be rouse by the approach of a light footstep, and look up,

perceive Rose Arundel.



“why, Mr. Frere,” she exclaim playfully, “I do believe you be

asleep; will you not come into the other room? Mrs. Brahmin be singe

like a nightingale and charming everybody.”



“nightingale be humbug. I hate singe woman in general, and

abominate Mrs. Brahmin in particular, so I’m well where I be,” be the

grumpy reply.



Rose have often before receive speech from Frere quite as rude as the

present one, but in this instance there be a peculiarity in his method

of deliver it which at once strike her attention. usually his bearish

saying be accompany by a half-smile or merry twinkle of the eye,

which prove that he be more than half in jest, but now there be a

bitter earnestness in his tone which she have never before remark,

and Rose feel at once that something have occur to annoy he; so

she quietly draw a chair to the table near which he be seat, and

carelessly turn over the page of a book of print which lie before

she, observed--



“if you be not to be tempt within the siren’s influence, and

positively refuse to be charm with sweet sound, I suppose I be bind

by all the rule of politeness to remain here and try to talk you into a

more harmonious frame of mind.”



“pray do nothing of the kind,” return frere, “unless you’ve some

well reason than a mere compliance with what you please to term ‘the

rule of politeness,’ for they be thing I trouble my head about mighty

little. besides,” he add sarcastically, “your new friend, Mr. James

Rasper, must have find his way upstairs by this time, I should imagine,

and I should be sorry to deprive you of the pleasure of his intellectual

conversation, more particularly as you seem to appreciate it so

thoroughly.”



“how viciously you say that!” return Rose, smile. “but tell I, be

you really angry? have I do anything to annoy you? I’m sure it’s most

unwittingly on my part, if I have;” and as she speak she look so good,

and so willing to be penitent for any possible offence, that a man

must have have the heart of an ogre to have resist she. such a heart,

however, Frere appear to possess, for he answer shortly--



“no, I’ve no fault to find with you. I dare say it may be quite

accord to the ‘rule of politeness’ to cast off old friend and take

up with new one at a minute’s notice, and be completely engross by

they, though they may contrive to talk about horse till they prove

themselves little well than ass to the mind of an unprejudiced

auditor. there be your friend converse eagerly with Bracy, ask, no

doubt, what have become of you.”



“you be very unjust, Mr. Frere,” return Rose, look hard at her

book and speak eagerly and quickly. “Mr. Rasper be no friend of

mine; I scarcely know his name till you mention it. he sit next I at

dinner, and talk to I about horse and gallop over plough field

after fox, till I become so stupid that I have scarcely two idea leave

in my head, but of course I be bind to answer he civilly. so much for

my new friend, as you call he; what you mean by my cast off old one

I don’t at all know; I have do nothing of the kind that I be aware

of.”



“no, you have not,” return Frere, recall to his well self by

Rose’s harangue; “it be I who be, as you say, unjust and absurd, but

the honest truth be that I want to talk to you myself. all these good

people be bore more or less, none of’em able to converse rationally

for five minute together. I mean to have hand you down to dinner,

but that silky, scheme widow get hold of I instead and irritate I

with her bland platitude; and then I hear that idiot prating to you

about horse’ leg, and you appear so well satisfied with he, when

I know that you be one of the few woman who could understand and

appreciate well thing, that altogether I grow savage, and could

gladly have punch my own head or any one else’s.”



“it be quite as well Mr. Rasper be on the opposite side of the table

to you,” return Rose, “or you might have carry out your theoretical

inclination by practise on he, and then we should have have a scene.”



Frere look a little awkward and conscious as he replied--



“though I be a bear, I be not quite such a savage animal as all that

come to; I do not give the fatal hug unless I be attack first.”



at this moment Bracy and Mr. Rasper, whose back be turn towards

they, approach within earshot. the latter appear much excited, and

Rose hear he say--



“it’s no use talk, I’ve be grossly insult, sir, and if you willn’t

take my message to he, by------ I’ll take it myself, and give he as

good as he give I, or perhaps a little well.”



Frere hear he also, and a flash of anger pass across his feature.



“my dear Rasper, you’re excited,” return Bracy soothingly. “I do not

witness the affair certainly, but I cannot think that any insult be

intend. Frere be rough in his manner, but the well-hearted fellow in

the world.”



“I don’t know what _you_ may consider an insult, Mr. Bracy; but take a

man by the collar and swinge he over the banister like a cat, at the

risk of his neck, be quite insult enough for I, one for which I’ll have

satisfaction, too.”



“Hush, my dear fellow, you’ll attract general attention if you speak so

loud. here, come aside with I, and we’ll talk the matter over quietly.”



so say, he draw Rasper’s arm within his own, and lead he through a

side door which open upon the staircase. involuntarily glance at

his companion, Frere perceive her eye rivet on his feature with an

expression of alarmed inquiry.



“well, what’s the matter?” he demand, answer her speak look.



“what be that man so angry about?” return Rose breathlessly; “what

have you be do?”



“nothing very wonderful,” rejoin Frere coolly. “the young gentleman,

as I suppose one be bind to call he, drink rather more wine than be

prudent, and fancy I look a quiet, easy-temper kind of person,

by way of a dull jest, indulge himself with fall against and rudely

push by I on the staircase; and I, not be at the moment in the

humour for joking, do, as he very truly observe, swing he like a cat

over the banister, where, cat-like, he fall upon his leg.”



“oh, Mr. Frere, how could you do such a thing? and now he be dreadfully

angry, and talk about send you a message, which mean that he want

to fight a duel. Mr. Frere, you will not fight with he?” and as

Rose speak her pale cheek flush with unwonted animation, and tear,

scarcely repressed, glistened in her earnest eye.



“what do you think about it?” return frere, look at she with a kind

smile.



“oh, I think, I hope, you be too good, too wise, to do such a thing.

for Lewis’s sake, for the sake of all your friend, you will refrain.”



“for a well reason still, my dear, warm-hearted little friend,”

 return frere kindly but solemnly; “for God’s sake I will not break his

commandment, or incur the guilt of shed a fellow-creature’s blood.

but,” he add, “all this folly have frighten you;” and as he speak he

take her little trembling hand in his and stroke it caressingly, and

this time it be not withdraw.



“then you will apologise, I suppose,” Rose observe after a short pause.



“well, we’ll hope that may not be necessary,” return her companion,

“see that Rasper the infuriate be more to blame in the affair than

I be; but if the good youth be so obtuse that nothing less will quiet

he, I suppose I must accommodate his stupidity by do so. it be a

less evil to pocket one’s dignity for once in a way than to murder or be

murder in support of it.”



at this moment Bracy enter the room _solo_, with such a vexed and

anxious expression of countenance that Frere, who guess rightly at the

cause, could, though he like he the well for it, scarcely forbear

smile.



“go back to your singing widow,” observe Frere to Rose, “and when I

have administer his sop to Cerberus I will come and tell you what wry

face he have make in swallow it.”



Rose fix her eye on he with a scrutinise glance, and read

in his honest face that he be not deceive she, smile on he

approvingly, and rise, quietly mingle with the company in the front

drawing-room.



“I say, Frere,” begin Bracy as Rose disappear, “I’m sadly afraid

you have get into a tiresome scrape. that young fool, Rasper, declare

you’ve pitch he over the banister.”



“a true bill so far, and richly he deserve it,” return Frere.



“I can well believe that,” be Bracy’s reply, “for he be more than

half screw whence leave the dinner-table; but the shake appear to have

sober he into a state of the most lively vindictiveness. however,

it’s no laugh matter, I can assure you: he have send you a message by

I, and mean fight.”



“_he_ may, but _i_ don’t,” return frere shortly.



“my dear Frere, I wish I could make you understand that the affair be

serious. rasper’s determine to have you out. I can make no impression

upon he, and you cann’t refuse to meet a man after pitch he over the

banister,” rejoin Bracy in a tone of annoyance.



“cann’t I, though?” return frere, smile. “I’m not of such a yielding

disposition as you imagine. where be the sweet youth?”



“I leave he in the cloak-room,” answer Bracy; and as Frere immediately

turn to descend the stair, continue, “ ’pon my word, you’d well

not go near he: he’s especially savage. depend upon it, you will have

something disagreeable occur.”



“do you think I’m go to be force into fight a duel, a sin of the

first magnitude in my eye, because I’m afraid of meet an angry boy?

you don’t know I yet,” return frere sternly; and without wait

further parley he run downstairs, follow by Bracy, with a face of the

most comic perplexity. the door of the cloak-room stand half open, and

at the further end of the apartment might be perceive the outraged

Rasper, pace up and down like a cage lion, “nurse his wrath to keep

it warm.” unintimidate even by this tremendous spectacle, Frere coolly

enter the room, and immediately walk up to his late antagonist,

hold out his hand.



“come, Mr. Rasper,” he say, “this have be a foolish business

altogether, and the soon we mutually forget it the well. here’s my

hand: let’s be friend.”



that this be a mode of procedure on which Mr. Rasper have not calculate

be evident, as well by his extreme embarrassment as by his appear

completely at a loss what course to pursue. for a moment he seem half

inclined to accept Frere’s proffer hand; but his eye fall upon Bracy,

and probably recall the threat he have breathe forth in the hearing

of that worthy individual, he feel that his dignity be at stake; and

give himself a shake to re-arouse his indignation, he reply, “I

shall do no such thing, sir. you have grossly insult I, and I demand

satisfaction.”



“excuse I,” return frere quietly, “I do not insult you: I simply

would not allow you to insult I; no man worthy of the name would.”



“it’s no use jangle about it, like a couple of woman, _i_ consider

that you have insult I: what _you_ may think matter nothing to I. I

have be insult, I require satisfaction, and I mean to have it too,”

 reiterate Mr. Rasper, talk himself into a passion.



“now, listen to I,” return frere impressively. “you be a young man

than I be, and have probably, therefore, more of life before you. you

be of an age and temperament to enjoy life vividly. there be many that

love you; I can answer for three, for I meet your mother and two

sister at Lord Ambergate’s a fortnight since, and the kind creature

entertain I for half-an-hour with your praise. why, then, seek to

throw away your own life and embitter theirs, or bring upon your head

the guilt of homicide, entail banishment from your home and country,

and other evil consequence, merely because, having drink a few extra

glass of wine, you seek to play off a practical joke upon I, and

I, not be at the moment in a jesting humour, retaliate upon you, as

you, or any other man of spirit, would have do in my situation? come,

look at it in a common sense point of view: be this a cause for which to

lose a life or take one?”



after wait a moment for a reply, during which time Rasper

stand gnaw the finger of his white glove in irresolution, frere

resumed--“If you’re sorry for your share in the matter, I’m perfectly

willing to own that I be for mine; and now, once more, here’s my

hand--what do you say?”



“say, that you’re a regular out-and-out good fellow, and that I’m

a------d ass, and beg your pardon heartily,” be the energetic

rejoinder; and bring his hand down upon Frere’s with a smack that

re-echo through the room, Rasper and his late antagonist shake hand

with the strength and energy of a brace of giant; and then, both

talk at once with the great volubility, they ascend the stair

arm in arm, Bracy follow they, with his left eye fix in a

specie of chronic wink, expressive of any amount of the most intense

satisfaction and sagacity. as they re-enter the drawing-room, Rose,

whose power of hearing, always acute, be in the present instance

render still more so by anxiety, catch the follow word; “then you

promise you will dine with I at Lovegrove’s on Thursday, and I’ll

pick up half-a-dozen fellow that I know you’ll like to meet, regular

top-sawyer, that you’re safe to find in the first flight, be it where

it may.”



“only on condition that you come to my room on Friday and bring your

brother, and we’ll show you sport man how we bookworm live--Bracy,

we shall see you?”



“you’ll dine with we, too, at Blackwall, Mr. Bracy,” rejoin the first

speaker, who be none other than the redoubtable rasper. and numerous

other genial sentence of like import reach the ear and comfort the

heart of that little philanthropist, Rose Arundel, who could no more

bear to see her fellow-creature disagree than could Dr. Watts, when in

his benevolence he indict that pretty hymn which begins--



                   “let dog delight to bark and bite,



                   for ’tis their nature to!”



then proceed to state the interesting ornithological fact that



                   “bird in their little nest agree,”



and touchingly appeal to the nobler instinct of childhood in the

pathetic metrical remonstrance--



                   “those little hand be never make



                   to tear each other’s eye.”



oh! excellent and prosy Watts, doer of dull, moral platitude into

duller doggerel, co-tormentor with Pinnock and the Latin grammar of my

early boyhood, would that for thy sake I have the pen of Thomas Carlyle,

for then would I write thee down that which I suspect thou wast, my

Watts, in most resonant un-English, nay, I would make thee the subject

of a “Latter-Day Pamphlet,” and treat of thee in connection with the

_vexata questio_ of prison discipline, would by thy aid invent a new and

horrible punishment for refractory felon, who in lieu of handcuff

and bread and water, hard labour, or solitary confinement, should

straightway be condemn to a severe course of “Watts’ Hymns.”



Thomas Bracy, his mind be relieve from the _onus_ of this rather

serious episode in his evening’s amusement, now cast his eye around to

discover how the various scheme project by his fertile brain might

be progress. the first group that meet his eye afford he unmixed

satisfaction--Lady Lombard, seat on a low fauteuil, be listen

with delighted attention to De Grandeville, who, hang over she,

be talk eagerly (about himself) with an air of the most lover-like

devotion. the next pair that his glance fall upon scarcely pleased he

so well, for Mrs. Brahmin have again hook the Dace, and appear in a

fair way of land he safely. “however,” reflect Bracy, “one comfort

be that he’s such an awful fool he will bore she to death in less than a

week after they’re marry, and she’ll revenge herself by flirt with

every man she meet, which be safe to worry he to distraction, and

they’ll be a wretched, miserable couple; so I really believe there’ll

be more comedy evolve by let they alone than by interfere with

they;” and console himself with this agreeable view of the matter,

he turn his attention to the state, mental and physical, of General

Gudgeon. that gallant son of Mars, as though conscious of the hope and

fear that be abroad concern his possible behaviour, be take

the good method of neutralise the dangerous effect of his devotion

to Bacchus by compose himself to sleep in a mighty arm-chair. next

he be seat Miss MacSalvo, who be engage in a truly edify

conversation with Mrs. Dackerel, mother to the “postpone one,” on the

propriety of establish a female Missionary Society for the prevention

of Polygamy amongst the Aborigines of the North-eastern Districts of

South-West Australia; an evil which both lady agree to be mainly

owe to the fact that the woman do not know how to conduct themselves

like the woman of civilised nation; a fact to which Bracy assent by

observe “that be self-evident, or the man would find one wife quite

enough;” on which Miss MacSalvo turn up the white, or more properly

speak, the yellow of her eye, and ejaculate, “ah, yes indeed!”

 with much unction, though it be to be doubt whether after all she

perceive the full force of the remark.



“why, General,” exclaim Bracy quickly, “_you_ have be in Australia;

you’re the very man we want; rouse up, my dear sir, and enlighten our

darkness.”



“pray, sir,” observe Miss MacSalvo, address General Gudgeon, “pray,

sir, can you give I any insight into the habit and custom of those

interesting, but, alas! misguided individual, the Aborigines of South

Australia; more particularly with reference to the female portion of the

population--any little anecdote which may occur to you now?”



“by Jo-o-ove, ma’am,” return the General, whose English have not yet

‘suffer a recovery’, “you’ve come to--you’ve come to the right, eh--to

the, the right, what-be-it?”



“Shop,” suggest Bracy.



“Ye-es, to the right sho-op, if that’s what you want, ma’am. I should

think there ain’t a man--there ain’t a man--eh? yes, breathing--that can

tell you more--eh? more about larks----”



“it be scarcely with a view to the ornithology of the country that I be

anxious to gain information,” interrupt Miss MacSalvo; “the fact I

require regard the general behaviour and moral conduct of the female

population of the north-eastern district.”



“eh! oh, yes--yes, I under--I understand what you’re up to, eh?” resume

the General, with what he intend for a significant wink at Bracy;

“there be Tom Slasher and I--a rare wild young, eh? yes, a wild young

dog be Tom; well, ma’am, there be a gal over there--she ben’t one of

the native, though--they’re taw-taw--yes, tawny colour--but this

gal be a nigger--reg’lar darkie--Black-_hide_ Susan, Tom use to call

she--witty chap be Tom.”



and the General be fairly start, continue to talk most volubly,

though, from the peculiarity of his diction, he do not get to the

point of his story so quickly as might have be expect. in the

meantime Frere contrive to rejoin Rose, and seat himself almost in

her pocket, observe in a low voice--



“well, I’ve manage to tame the dragon, you see.”



“yes, and persuade he to dine _with_ you instead of _upon_ you,”

 return Rose, smile; “but tell I,” she add, “how do you contrive

to satisfy he. be you force to apologise?”



“oh, I put the thing before he in a common sense point of view,”

 reply frere; “appeal to his good feeling as if I have faith in his

possess such a quality, which be the sure way to call it forth if it

exist, and wind up by tell he that if he be sorry for his share

in the business, I be ditto for mine, which mode of treatment prove

eminently successful. he apply a forcible adjective to the word ass,

and stigmatise himself by the epithet thus compound, he shake I

heartily by the hand, and straightway we become the great friend,

ratify the contract by an exchange of dinner invitation, without

which ceremony no solemn league and covenant be consider bind in

England in these day of enlightened civilisation.”



“well, I think you have behave more bravely and nobly than if you

have fight twenty duel,” exclaim Rose, fairly carry away by her

admiration. “I esteem and respect you, and--and----!” here she stop

short, and a bright blush overspread her pale feature, for she

perceive Frere’s fine eye fix upon she with an expression of

delighted surprise which she have never observe in they before, and

which bring to her recollection the fact that, after all, he be

a live man not many year old than herself, instead of some

magnanimous, philosophical, and heroic character in history do into

modern English and animate by magic for her express delectation. the

light in Frere’s eye have, however, fade, and he have relapse into his

accustomed manner ere he reply: “I cann’t say I see anything to make a

fuss about in it. I ben’t go to allow a half-tipsy boy to insult I

with impunity, so I pitch he over the banister as a trifling hint to

that effect; neither do I feel inclined to shoot he, or let he shoot

I, by way of compensation for his tumble, because it would have be

equally wrong and irrational so to do, and I go and tell he my idea

in plain English, which be the natural course to pursue, and produce

the desire effect. I really cann’t see anything remarkable in it all.”



“I fancy that I do,” reply Rose archly; “but of course we poor woman

cannot pretend to be competent judge in such a case.”



“you know you don’t think anything of the kind,” return frere; “you’ve

get a very good opinion of your own judgment, so don’t tell story.”



“without either admit or deny the truth of your assertion, I

should like to know what ground you have for make it?” ask Rose.



“I can soon tell you, if that’s all you want to know,” return Frere.

“you could not act for yourself with the quiet decision I have before

now see you exercise when occasion require it unless you possess

self-appreciation sufficient to give you the requisite degree of

confidence.”



Ere Rose could reply their conversation be interrupt by a pierce

shriek follow by an extreme bustle and confusion on the other side of

the room. the cause be soon explain. excited with wine, and artfully

draw on by Bracy, General Gudgeon have tell one of his “gentleman’s

story” to Miss MacSalvo, on the strength of which outrageous anecdote

that zealous advocate for establish a Female Missionary Society for

the Prevention of Polygamy amongst the Aborigines of the North-Eastern

District of South-West Australia have see fit to go off into a perfect

tornado of the most alarming hysteric!









CHAPTER XL.--SHOWS, AMONGST other matter, how RICHARD FRERE passed a

RESTLESS NIGHT.



the hysterical affection of the praiseworthy antipolygamist having

take place late in the evening, may be say to have break up the

party. Mrs. General Gudgeon, who, when the catastrophe occur, be

more or less asleep over the same book of print to which she have

devote herself on her first arrival, originate, as she witness the

confusion, a faint idea--(all this lady’s idea, and they be not

many, be of a dim and hazy character, so that a good impression of her

thought--if we may be allow the term--be a rarity hardly to be meet

with)--that her well half be in some way connect with the matter;

and know that dine out usually “produce an effect upon he” (as

she delicately and indefinitely phrase it), she forthwith institute

an inquiry after her carriage, and that “vehicle for the transmission of

heavy body” be report in readiness, she issue marching order,

and as soon as the honourable and gallant officer could be get upon his

leg, take he in tow, and in his company depart.



the Dackerels hasten to follow this example, the maternal Dackerel

having come in for her share of the General’s “good thing,” and

appear much inclined to “trump” Miss MacSalvo’s hysteric with a

fainting fit; J. D. D., with a face even long than usual, support

her retire footstep. he have be warm his chilly spirit in the

sunshine of the widow’s smile, till, in the possibility of some

day call that delicate creature his own, the outline of a new and

fascinating destiny have be trace upon the foolscap paper of his

imagination; but the doom be still upon he, and in the call of filial

piety he recognise a fresh postponement even of this last forlorn hope.

Frere have shake hand with Rose, apologise for not be able to

lunch with they the next day--a thing which nobody have ask he to

do--and, having set the butler and both the tall footman to look for

his cotton umbrella, and put on consecutively two wrong greatcoat, be

about to walk home, when Mr. James Rasper interfere; he would drive his

friend home--anywhere--everywhere--so that he would but accompany he.

he want to show he his cab; he wish to learn his opinion of his

horse--in short, he would not be deny; and Frere, begin to think

his friendship a bad alternative than his animosity, be force to

consent, which he do thus--



“well, yes, if you like. I shall get home soon, that’s one comfort;

and I’ve get three hour’ work to do before I can go to bed. be this

your trap? the brute willn’t kick, will he? ugh! what an awkward thing to

get into. I believe I’ve break my shin. go ahead! mind you steer clear

of the lamp-post. I cann’t think why people ride when they’ve get leg

to walk with.”



Bracy wait patiently to hand Miss MacSalvo downstair, which he do

with much gravity and decorum, lament the disgraceful conduct of

General Gudgeon, of whom he remark, with a portentous shake of the

head, that “he greatly fear he be not a man of a sober or edifying

frame of mind,” which observation be certainly true as far as the

sobriety be concern.



whether Jemima of the sour countenance have, in arrange Frere’s bed,

impart somewhat of the angularity of her own nature to the feather,

or whether the event of the evening have excite that part of his system

in regard to the existence whereof he indulge in a very bigotry of

scepticism, namely, his nerve, certain it be that when (having read

Hindostanee till daylight peep in upon his study) he go to bed he

do _not_ follow his usual system of drop asleep almost as soon

as he have lay his head upon his pillow; neither could he apply his

ordinary remedy for insomnolency, for when he try to concentrate his

attention on some difficult sentence in his Hindostanee, or to solve

mentally an abstruse mathematical problem, a figure in white muslin

obscure the asiatic character or entangle itself inextricably with

rectangular triangle, so that the wish-for Q. E. D. could never

be arrive at. Frere have never think Rose Arundel pretty till that

night--one reason for which might have be that he have never think

about her appearance at all; but now, all of a sudden, the recollection

of her animate face as, carry away by the impulse of the moment, she

have begin to tell he how she admire his noble conduct, occur to

he, and all its good point flash upon he and haunt and oppress

he. the smooth, broad forehead--he have observe that before, and

decide it to be a good forehead in a practical point of view--i.e.> a

capacious knowledge-box; but now he feel that it be something more,

and the mysterious attribute of beauty force itself upon his notice and

fling its charm around he. then her eye--those deep, earnest, truthful

eye--seem yet to gaze at he, with a bright expression of interest

sparkle through their softness. he could not, try as he please,

banish the recollection of those eye; as he lie and think they come

across he, and bewitch he like a spell. and her mouth--what a world

of eloquence be there even in its silence; there might be trace the

same firmness and resolution which mark the haughty curl of Lewis’s

short upper lip; but the pride and sternness be want, and in their

place a chasten, pensive expression seem to afford a guarantee that

the strength of character thus indicate could alone be arouse in a

good cause; but the true expression of that mouth be to be discover

only when a smile, suggestive of every soft, bright trait of woman’s

nature, reveal the little pearl-like tooth. all this seem to have

come upon frere like a sudden inspiration; he could not banish it

from his recollection, and the more he reflect upon it, the less he

understand it. and so he toss and tumble about, restless alike in

mind and body, till at last, just as the clock strike six, he fall into

a doze. but sleep afford he no refuge from his tormentress. Rose,

change and yet the same, haunt his dream; but a halo appear to

surround she--she have acquire a character of sanctity in his eye.

never again could he inadvertently address she as “sir,” and he would as

soon have think of connect the idea of a “good fellow” with one of

Raphael’s Madonnas as with Rose Arundel. at half-past seven Jemima--a

very chronometer for punctuality--knock at his door, and receive no

answer, _sans cérémonie_ walk in, to see what might be the matter; and

find her master rather snore than otherwise, invade his slumber

by exclaim in a shrill voice--



“it ain’t of much use I get out of my blessed bed with the rhumatiz

in the small o’ my back to bring your hot-water by halfpast seven, if

you lay there snore like a hog, Master Richard, and willn’t answer a

body when they call you;” to which appeal she receive the somewhat

inconsequent reply--



“well, suppose I wouldn’t let he shoot I, there’s nothing very fine in

that, Rose.”



“listen to he,” exclaim Jemima, aghast; “lor’ a mussy! I hope he

ain’t a wandering, or take to the drink. Master Richard, will ye please

to wake and talk like a Christian, and not go frightening a body out of

their wit,” she continue in a tone of voice as of an agitated sea-mew.



“eh, what? oh, be that you, Jemima? I be so sound asleep; go away and

I’ll get up directly,” mutter Frere, become conscious of those usual

colloquial antipode, “his room and his company.” but Jemima have be

flurry and render anxious on his account, first by his silence, next

by his incoherent address, and now find her alarm have be without

foundation, her well feeling turn sour, and have her master at

an advantage, see that he could not rise till she should please to

convey herself away, she give vent to her acidulate sentiment in the

follow harangue--



“yes, it’s all very well to say ‘go away,’ as if you be speak to

a dog, after frightening people out of their wit by talk gibberish

about shoot and fine rose; but I see how it be, you’re a taking to

evil course, a stay out here till one o’clock in the morning, for I

hear ye a comin’ in, lie awake with the rhumatiz in the small o’

my back, drinking and smoking cigar, which spile the tooth and

hundermine the hintellect, and account for be non compo Mondays

the next morning; but I’ve live with you and yours thirty year and odd,

and I ain’t a-go to see you rack-and-ruining of your constitution

without a-speak up to tell you of it, for all your look black

at the woman that nurse you when yer be an hinocent babby, all

onconscious of sich going on.”



“my good woman, don’t talk such rubbish, but go away and let I get my

thing on,” return frere in a species of apologetic growl.



“Rubbish indeed!” continue Jemima in a violent falsetto, her temper

be thoroughly arouse by the contemptuous epithet apply to she

unappreciated homily; “that’s all the thank one get for one’s good

advice, be it? but I don’t care. I’ve live with you, man and boy, nigh

half my life, which, like the grass of the field, be three score year

and ten come Michaelmas twelvemonth, and I’m not a-go to see you take

to evil course without lift up my voice as a deacon set on a hill to

warn you against ’em, which be what your blessed mother would have do

only too gladly if she ben’t an angel in the family vault, where we

must all go when our time come; smoke filthy cigar and stop out

till one o’clock in the morning, indeed!” and mutter these word over

and over to herself, as a sort of _refrain_, Jemima hobble out of the

room with more stoutness and alacrity than could have be expect from

her antiquated appearance. relieve from the incubus of her presence,

Frere rise and proceed to dress himself; but the nightmare that have

oppress he, whether sleep or wake, haunt he still.



in vain he try to shave himself; the vision in white muslin come

between his face and the look-glass and occasion he to cut his

chin. at his frugal breakfast it be with he again, and strange to

say, take away his appetite; it go out with he to his scientific

institution, and weaken his perception, and absorb his attention,

and dull his memory, till even the most positive resolve nebulæ swam

in a mist before he, and the mountain of the moon, which have lately

develop a new crater, might have be the _bona fide_ production of

that planet instead of merely her african godchildren, for aught that

he could have state to the contrary. he get through his morning’s work

somehow, and then the vision prompt he to call at Lady Lombard’s,

and give he no peace till he start for the goodly mansion of that

hospitable widow, which he do in such an unusually agitated frame of

mind, that for the first time in the memory of man he forget his cotton

umbrella; he hurry wildly through the street, overthrow little

child and reverse apple-woman, not to mention an insane attempt to

constitute himself a member of the “happy family,” by dash violently

against the wire of their cage, which contain all kind of strange

animal except a Richard Frere, or a _Podiccps Cornutus_, till at last

he reach the locality in which Lady Lombard’s house be situate.



and here a new and unaccountable crotchet take possession of his

brain. frere, who since he could run alone and express his sentiment

intelligibly in his native tongue have never know what bashfulness

mean, be seize with a sudden attack of that uncomfortable sensation,

the extinguisher of so many would-be shine light of humanity, who

but for that “floor” quality would have publish such book and make

such speech that the hair of society at large, upraised with wonder

and admiration, must have stand on end through all time, “like quill

upon the fretful porcupine.” so violent be this attack of shyness that,

after having hurry from his office as though life and death hang upon

his speed, he could not make up his mind whether to pay the project

visit or not, and actually stroll up and down, pass and repasse

the door some half-dozen time before he venture to knock at it; nay,

to such an extent have this mysterious “_timor panico_” seize upon

he, that when the plush-clothe “man mountain” appear in answer to his

summon he merely leave his card, and inquire meekly how the lady

be, post off at, if anything, a more rapid pace than that at which

he have walk on his way thither.



then ere he have proceed the length of a street come the reaction,

under the influence of which he not unjustly stigmatise himself as

an egregious fool, and but for very shame would fain have retrace his

step. he could not, however, make up any credible excuse for face the

noble footman a second time, so as the next good thing to see Rose,

he find his way to Park Crescent and call upon Lewis, to whom he

relate how he feel so restless and fidgety that he be persuade he

must be about to develop a feverish cold, or some analogous abomination.

having engage Lewis to accompany he on the following evening to

a lecture at the Palaeontological on “the Relations of the early

zoophyte,” whoever they might be, he be about to depart, when, as he

reach the hall, a carriage, with a splendid pair of grey, dash up

to the door, and a pretty little brunette with sparkle black eye,

a brilliant complexion, and a bonnet the colour of raspberry

ice, descend, and pass Frere with a glance half saucy, half

contemptuous, run upstairs as if she be an _habituée_ of the house.

this be Emily, Countess Portici, Loid Bellefield’s young sister, who,

have at nineteen run away with an italian nobleman, for love of his

black eye and ivory complexion, have ere she be five-and-twenty grown

heartily sick of they and of Italy, and discover some good reason to

quit that land of uncomfortable splendour to enjoy the gaiety of a

London spring, leave her picturesque husband to console himself

as good he might during her absence. she possess very high spirit

without any vast amount of judgment to counterbalance they, and her

present frame of mind be that of a school-girl rejoice in a holiday,

into which she be determined to cram as much pleasure, fun, and frolic

as an unlimited capacity for enjoyment would enable she to undergo. on

the strength of her position as a married woman, she constitute

herself Annie’s chaperon on all occasion when the vigilance of Minerva

Livingstone could be elude; and as that Gorgon of the nineteenth

century be not so young as she have be, and find late hour tend

to reduce her stamina and degrade the dignity of ill temper to the

ignominious level of mere peevishness, she unwillingly allow the

Countess Portici to act as her substitute and escort Annie to such

evening entertainment as from their nature threaten to invade the

hour dedicate by Minerva to repose. there be much similarity of

feature and of manner between the Countess and her brother Charles

Leicester, only that Charley’s languid drawl be in Emily replace by a

sparkling vivacity, which, together with a certain selfish good-nature

that lead she to promote the enjoyment of other on every occasion in

which it do not come in contact with her own, be sufficient to render

she a general favourite. Annie be no exception to this rule; and always

delight to escape from the petrify influence of Minerva, eagerly

second all her lively cousin’s scheme for her amusement.



the object of the Countess’s visit on the present occasion be to secure

Annie for the following evening, when they be to dine together, and

be afterwards to be escort to the Opera by Lord Bellefield, where

they be to hear a new soprano with a voice three note high than

that of anybody else, which note might by a mild and easy figure of

speech be not inaptly term bank-note, see that by their exercise

the fair cantatrice have realise the satisfactory sum of thirty thousand

pound.



the Countess’s scheme happen to fit in very nicely with the view of

the elder, as the General dine out, and Minerva be nurse a cold,

which must have reduce the temperature of her blood to some frightful

figure below zero, the project meet with no more opposition than, from

the constitution of Miss Livingstone’s mind, be inevitable. and thus it

come about that on the following day Emily call for Annie, and the two

girl (for the matron be a very _girlish_ speciman of five-and-twenty)

drive round the park together, and then retire to Emily’s boudoir and

“talk confidence” till it be time to dress. Annie’s revelation

do not go much more than skin-deep, and relate chiefly to anxiety

concern papa and difficulty with Aunt Martha, who be “so tiresome

about thing, and never would let anybody love she,” and then branch

off to a retrospective sketch of the preliminary difficulty which have

obstruct Charley Leicester’s wedding, end by a detailed account

of the ceremony itself, and Annie’s hope and fear as to the ultimate

result of the bridegroom’s good resolution.



emily, on the contrary, plunge at once _in médias re_, and relate

how all last winter she have be render wretched by “Alessandro’s”

 attention to the Marchese Giulia di B------ani (she reveal the blank

in an agitated whisper), and what all her particular friend have say

to she on the subject, and how she have jointly and severally reply to

they that the dignity of her sex support she; whence, warm with

her subject, she go on to state how she in her turn have support this

dignity by repulse the advance of Captain Augustus (familiarly and

affectionately reduce, for colloquial purpose, into Gus) Travers,

who, having be her first love, and retire _vice_ Alessandro Conte de

Portici promote to the rank of husband, consider that it be again

his innings, and have diligently seek to become platonically her third

love and dispute the post of _cavalier servente_ with all and sundry,

in spite of which constancy and devotion she have persevere in her

repulsiveness until, between her cruelty and a reckless indifference to

malaria, poor Gus be attack with a brain fever, and then of course

when he grow a little well she could not continue unkind to he,

for she might have have his life to answer for, and that be a serious

consideration; and so by degree he take to come to the Palazzo

Portici constantly and go about to place with she, and somehow she

get accustom to he, and Alessandro do not seem to mind, and poor Gus

always behave very well, and only ask to be allow the privilege of

her friendship, and everybody do the same sort of thing--“It’s their

way over there, you know, Annie dear;” till at last Belle-field come,

and he have never be able to endure Gus because he be so handsome,

poor fellow, so Bellefield make a great fuss and say all sort

of shocking thing, and set Alessandro at she; and bad than all,

quarrel with Gus and want to horsewhip he, and it almost come to a

duel, only she write Gus a little note, implore he not to fight, but

to go away and forget she; and he have do the first directly, and she

dared say he have do the second, for she’d never see he since, which

of course she be very glad of. and here she heave a deep sigh and

caress a comic and unnatural transalpine poodle, which by reason of

its flow lock look like an animate carriage mat, as though it

have be a pet lamb, the sole prop of some heart-break and dishevel

shepherdess, to which picture of pastoral pathos do Emily, Countess di

Portici, then and there mentally assimilate herself.



and to all this history of love, and hate, and platonic friendship,

whatever they might be, simple innocent Annie listen with much

interest and more perplexity. she have a vague notion that Emily have

behave foolishly, if not wrongly; but she be very fond of her cousin,

who, from the difference in their respective age, have acquire a

degree of ascendency over she which their natural character scarcely

warrant. then Annie’s deep ignorance of foreign manner and custom

throw a mist of uncertainty around the whole affair, beneath the shadow

of which she be able to put the most charitable construction on Emily’s

conduct without “stultify her moral sense” (to speak as a logician);

still she felt call upon to give her cousin a little good advice in

regard to strive entirely to forget, and scrupulously to avoid for the

future, the too fascinating Gus, for which Emily kiss she and call

she a dear, silly, little prude; then twine their arm round each

other’s taper waist, the girl descend to the dining-room, unite

for the time being, literally and figuratively, by the close bond

of amity and affection. stand rather in awe of her brother, Emily

conduct herself during the meal with so much gravity and decorum that

she quite throw a shade over Annie’s usual lightheartedness, and by the

time they reach their opera box a more sombre trio (not even except

the soprano, the tenor, and the baritone, of whom the first two be

prepared to be poison, and the third to stab himself on their marble

tomb before the evening should be over) could not have be find

beneath the roof of her Majesty’s theatre.



between the act of the opera a divertissement be introduce, in which

a _danseuse_, who have acquire an italian reputation, but who be as

yet unknown in England, be to make her first appearance. Emily be

converse volubly about her various merit, when a fashionably-dress

young man with delicate feature, a profusion of dark wave curl,

and a pair of the most interesting little black moustachio imaginable,

lounge into one of the stall and begin lazily to scrutinise the

company through a richly-mount opera-glass. he be undeniably

handsome, but the expression of his face be disagreeable, and his

whole demeanour blasé and puppyish in the extreme. as he enter,

Annie perceive her cousin to give a violent start, and, as she meet her

glance, to colour slightly; then, evidently unwilling to attract she

brother’s notice, she make a successful effort to recover herself, and

appeared completely absorb in the terpsi-chorean prodigy of the

new opera-dancer. just at the conclusion of the divertissement some one

knock at the door of the box, and on Lord Bellefield’s open it,

Annie hear a man’s voice say, in a hurried manner, “can your Lordship

allow I two minute’ conversation? my business be of the utmost

importance.” Lord Bellefield reply in the affirmative and quit the

box, close the door behind he. as he do so, Emily, lay her finger

on her cousin’s arm, say in a hurried whisper: “Annie, do you see that

gentleman in the fourth row of stall, the sixth from this end? that’s

Gus; ben’t he handsome, poor fellow? ah!” she continue, as the object

of her scrutiny suddenly bring his opera-glass to bear upon their box,

“he have make I out, and he do not know that Bellefield be here. oh! I

hope he willn’t think of come up!”



as she speak, Gus, having become aware of her presence, make an

almost imperceptible sign of recognition, and in the same quiet manner

telegraph an entreaty to be allow to join she; upon which Emily

frown and shake her head by way of prohibition, favour Gus

afterwards with a pensive smile, to show that her refusal proceed less

from choice than from necessity. almost as she do so Lord Bellefield

return, look annoyed and anxious. “I be oblige to leave you for

half-an-hour,” he say, “but you will be perfectly safe here, and I

shall return in plenty of time to escort you home. you may depend upon

my come to fetch you.” and almost before he finish speak he have

quit the box and be go.



confuse and half-frightened at his sudden departure, Annie remain for

a minute or two with her eye fix on the door through which he have

as it be vanish; when she again glance towards the stage the stall

lately occupy by Augustus Travers be vacant.









chapter XLI.--ANNIE GRANT FALLS into difficulty.



Lewis, accord to agreement, accompany frere to the

Palaeontological, and add to the circle of his acquaintance those

mysterious being, the “relation of the early Zoophytes.” when the

lecture be over, Frere, who have an order to admit two into the House

of Commons, take Lewis with he to hear the speaking. the debate prove

interesting: the Premier address the House at length; a well-know

satirist rise to reply to he, remark on various point in the speech

with much talent and more ill-nature, and the minister be again on

his leg to answer his opponent, when Lewis, glance at his watch,

discover to his annoyance that it be considerably past eleven; and

aware that General Grant have a particular objection to his servant

be keep up late, communicate this fact to his companion, and wish

he goodnight.



“what! cann’t you stay and hear ----------‘s answer?” be the reply, “and

then I’d come away, too.”



Lewis explain that the thing be impossible, and Frere continued--



“well, what must be, must, I suppose; and as my hearing----------‘s

reply be another inevitable necessity, I must e’en say good-night, so

_Schlaffen sie wohl_.”



Lewis grasp his proffered hand, and leave the gallery, start on

his homeward route. as he approach Charing Cross his attention be

attract by the restlessness of a magnificent horse, which, in a

well-appoint cab, be wait at the door of one of the house. as he

slacken his pace for a moment to ascertain whether the effort make

by a diminutive cab-groom to restrain the plunging of the fiery animal

would prove successful, the house door be fling open, and a gentleman,

apparently in headlong haste, spring down the step so recklessly that

he miss his footing, and would have fall have not Lewis catch he by

the arm in time to prevent it. as the person he have thus assist turn

to thank he, the reflection of the gaslight fall upon his face, and

Lewis recognise Lord Bellefield, though his feature be characterise

by a strange expression which Lewis have never observe in they before.

draw back, he bow coldly, and be about to pass on when Lord

Bellefield exclaimed--



“stay one moment, Mr. Arundel. I have be force to leave the

Opera-house suddenly: the Countess Portici and Miss Grant be in Lord

Ashford’s box, and I have promise to return to see they home, but be

quite unable to do so. you would oblige--that be, I be sure General

Grant would wish you----”



“will your lordship favour I with the loan of your pass-ticket?”

 interrupt Lewis shortly.



as Lord Bellefield comply with this request, Lewis remark that his

hand tremble to such a degree that he could scarcely grasp the ivory

ticket.



“you will tell the Countess that it be impossible for I to come to

they,” continue the young nobleman hurriedly; then pass his hand

across his eye, as if he be half bewilder, he spring into the cab,

and seize the rein, drive off at a furious pace in the direction of

Westminster Abbey.



Lewis gaze after he for a moment in surprise, then turn on his

heel, walk rapidly to the end of the haymarket, hope to reach the

theatre before the opera should be conclude. in this expectation he

be however disappointed, for when he gain the Opera Colonnade he

perceive, from the crush of carriage and the bustle and confusion

which be go on, that the opera be over. hastily push through the

crowd, he endeavour to find the box Lord Bellefield have indicate,

but to one as little acquainted as be Lewis with the intricacy of the

Opera-house this be no such easy matter; first, he run up considerably

too high; in his eagerness to retrieve this error he descend as much

too low; and even when he have attain the proper level he more than

once take a wrong turning. at length he catch a box-keeper, who, on

learn his difficulty, volunteer to conduct he to the box he be

in search of. Lo, and behold, when they reach the spot the door stand

open, and the box be tenantless!



in order to explain how this awkward and embarrassing result have be

bring about, we must beseech the reader’s patience while we resume the

break thread of our narrative where we relinquish it at the end of

the last chapter.



Scarcely have Lord Bellefield quit the box five minute when the

attendant open the door and Augustus Travers make his appearance. he

be very humble and courteous, and all he say to Emily with his

tongue might have be print in the “Times” the next morning without

affording matter for the most arrant gossip to prate about; but the

language speak by his eloquent blue eye be of a very different

character. he tell she vocally that he have be travel in the East

since they have last part; that he have be unwell, have feel restless

and unsettle; that he have find it impossible to remain contentedly in

any place, have become a citizen of the world, a wanderer over the face

of the globe; that he have only return to town during the last week,

and have no notion she have leave Italy--dear Italy!--and here his eye

say, “that country which your presence make a paradise to I,” just as

plainly as if his tongue have speak the word (in fact they say it more

plainly, for his tongue appear to consider it fashionable to speak

English with a slight lisp, which occasionally render his meaning

indistinct); “but when he see her”--continued his tongue--“he could not

resist come up to her box to learn whether she have quite forget all

her old friend;” and here his eye resume that his faith in she be

so strong that nothing, neither absence nor aught else, could in the

small degree shake it.



then Emily reply that she be always delighted to see any old friend,

but that she really be quite shocked to find he look so ill; which

observation she utter with particular tenderness, because, not be

aware that he have play French Hazard at a club in St. James’s Street

till five o’clock on the previous morning, she account for his pale

look by the romantic hypothesis that he be die for love of she. and

so they continue to converse in an undertone, apparently much to their

mutual satisfaction, while Annie, having bow coldly when she be

introduce to the fascinating Augustus, of whose presence there she

greatly disapprove, pretend altogether to ignore he, and to turn

her attention solely to the opera. and time run on, till, just as

the baritone singer be approach, with suicidal intention, the

(imitation) marble tomb suppose to contain the corpse of his tenor and

soprano victim, but which really be tenant by a live carpenter,

who, in a paper cap and flannel jacket, be wait till the fall of

the curtain should enable he to carry away the entire mausoleum, Annie,

look at her watch, perceive that it be past eleven, and glance

towards Emily, remind she in dumb show that Lord Bellefield might

be momentarily expect. this intelligence Emily, in a low tone,

communicate to her friend, who smile, to show his white tooth,

and reply that “Bellefield and he have meet at Baden, and have become

wonderful friend again;” despite which assurance Emily still urge

his departure, and he still linger on, till the opera come to an end

before Lord Bellefield make his appearance. be Saturday night, there

be no ballet, and the house begin to empty rapidly.



“what can possibly have become of your brother, Emily?” exclaim Annie,

who, dislike the whole situation most particularly, be fast lapsing

into that uncomfortable state of mind familiarly term “a fuss.”



“if you will allow I, I shall be delighted to see you to your

carriage,” insinuate Gus.



“thank you, but I be sure my brother will be here directly,” return

emily; “he would be extremely annoyed to find that we have go without

wait for he. pray do not let we detain you.”



but of course Gus would not go; “he should be wretched unless he know

they be in safety; he see they be anxious, he would ascertain

whether Lord Bellefield have return; there might perhaps be difficulty

in get up their carriage,” and so he leave the box, promise to

return instantly.



“what _be_ we to do, Emily, if Bellefield do not come?” exclaim

Annie, press her hand together much as the _primaa donna_ have do

when, some quarter of an hour since, she have ejaculate at the very

tip-top of her lofty voice, “_Addesso Morir!_”



“what be we to do, you silly child?” reply emily, laugh, “why,

walk downstairs, to be sure, and allow Gus to take care of we till we

can find the carriage. be not he handsome, poor fellow!”



before Annie could urge her dislike to this scheme, Travers return,

bring with he a tall, good-look boy, embarrass by a perpetual

consciousness of his extreme youth and his first tail-coat.



“I can see nothing of Lord Bellefield,” begin Gus; “it be evident

something must have occur to prevent his return. let I introduce

my brother Alfred,” he continue, address Emily; “he be a naughty

little boy in pinafore when you see he last--and now what will you do?

every one be go or go.”



“oh, wait a minute long; I’m sure he will come,” urge Annie.



“really we cannot,” return Emily. “we shall get shut up in the

opera-house all Sunday, if we don’t take care.”



“which would be indeed dreadfully wicked--a most terrific climax of

depravity,” simper Gus. “seriously,” he continue, “you must accept my

arm, though I be sorry the alternative should be so very disagreeable to

you.” these latter word he speak in such a tone that Emily alone could

hear they, for which he obtain a reproachful, tender, and upbraid

glance, with a view to which reward he have probably utter they.



“Come, Annie, we positively must go,” exclaim her cousin impatiently.



“Alfred, why don’t you offer Miss Grant your arm?” chime in Gus,

draw Emily’s within his own. thus urge, poor Annie, sorely against

her will, accept Alfred’s tremble arm and quit the box; Emily

and Augustus Travers follow. as they descend the stair a slight

confusion occur: an irish gentleman have lose his hat, and want to

return to look for it, a measure against which a stout old lady, to

whom he be act as escort, vehemently protest, while an obsequious

box-keeper be vainly endeavour to understand the locality in which

the embarrassed Hibernian imagine he have leave the miss article.

while Annie and her juvenile protector be manoeuvre to get past this

group, Augustus Travers pause, say in a low tone to his companion,

“let they precede we; I _must_ speak two word to you in private, and if

I lose this opportunity I may never have another. emily, if you value my

peace of mind, I entreat you do not refuse.”



a large party, compose chiefly of young man, be descend at the

moment, so that Emily’s reply be inaudible, but when, having get in

some degree clear of the confusion, Annie look back for her chaperone,

Travers and the Countess be nowhere to be see. horrify at this

discovery, Annie stop abruptly, exclaim, “oh, we have miss Mr.

Travers and my cousin! we have well turn back.”



the boy glance quickly round, and as he perceive the truth of her

assertion a meaning smile pass across his feature. all trace of it

have, however, vanish ere he reply, “they must have turn down the

other staircase, but it will bring they out at the same place as

this would have do; we shall meet they at the bottom.” then, as his

companion still hesitate, he continue, “I can assure you it be so; we

should only lose they if we be to return.”



half convince by this argument, and completely frighten by the party

of young man, who, talk and laughing, be rapidly follow they,

Annie suffer herself to be hurry on by her companion till she

reach the foot of the staircase; here she pause and look anxiously

around for her cousin and Travers--they be nowhere to be see.

annoyed, distressed, and frighten, she turn to her companion,

exclaim, “they be not here, you see. what _be_ we to do?”



“wait, I suppose,” return the boy, who seem puzzled and vex. “this

be a nice trick of Master Gus’s,” he continue in a half soliloquy; “he

ought at least to have give I a hint what to do.”



before Annie could inquire what he imagine his brother’s intention

might be, a fresh incident divert, and, from its disagreeable nature,

soon wholly engross her attention. the crush-room, as it be call,

where she be now stand, be occupy almost entirely by man, who,

break up into party of four or five, be pace up and down, wait

for their friend to join they, or stand in group, canvass the

various merit and demerit of the different performer. to one or two

of these coterie Annie soon become an object of especial notice.



“do you see that girl?” whisper a pert youth with light curl and a

turn-down collar. “ben’t she a regular stunner, eh?”



“Ya’as, dev’lish pwitty, ra-ally,” drawl a moustachiod puppy, stare

through an eyeglass at the object of his admiration. “aw--I wonder who

she possibly ca-an be. I actually don’t know har.”



“I suppose she’s stand there to be look at,” return the first

speaker. “her juvenile gallant cann’t get she along at any price, it

seem.”



“Ra’ally, it be almost worth while to relieve he of his charge,”

 drawl moustachio. “he seem particularly incompetent to fill it,

not--aw--equal to the situation--ha! ha!”



“why don’t you volunteer, Spooner, if you think so?” urge a third

speaker.



“Na-o, I don’t do that sort of thing--I’m--aw--quite a reform

character,” be the reply; “but if you wa-ant a leader for such a

forlorn hope--aw--here come your man.”



as he speak, a tall, distinguished-looking individual, with much

watch-chain and more whisker, who look forty, but might be a year

or two young, lounge up to the group, and show his tooth with

a repulsive smile, inquire, “what be you young reprobate grin

about, eh?”



“we be only say it be a pity that young lady have not a more

efficient protector, and advise Spooner to volunteer, Sir Gilbert,”

 be the reply.



“who be the individual?” inquire the last comer, screw a glass

into the corner of his eye. a moment’s inspection serve to elucidate

the mystery; and remove the glass with a contemptuous smile, he

add, “the boy be little Alfred Travers, who have just leave Eton; he’s

evidently wait for his brother, who, I’ve a notion, have more string

than one to his bow to-night; as for the damsel, _noscitur a sociis_.

we’ll play the fascinating Gus a trick for once in his life. come with

I, Forester; I may want you to bully the boy.” then turn on his

heel, he advance towards Annie, and salute she with a low bow,

began--



“this be a most unexpected pleasure! I have no idea you be here

to-night; where have you hide yourself this age?” then perceive

that, confuse by his address, and uncertain whether he might not be

some acquaintance whose feature she have fail to recognise, the young

lady be completely at a loss how to reply, he continue, “I see that

you have be cruel enough to forget I; while I, on the contrary, have

carry your lovely image in my heart, and time have fail to efface

even the shadow of a charm. but let I be of use to you. have you a

carriage here, or will you allow I to place mine at your disposal?

the house be become desert--let I escort you. stand aside, young

gentleman,” and as he speak he advance towards she, offer his arm.



but Annie, having recover from her first surprise, feel convince

that the person address she be a total stranger, and draw back in

alarm, she say to her companion in a hurried whisper--



“indeed, I do not know that gentleman--there must be some mistake--pray

let we get away.”



thus urge, the boy draw up his slight figure to its full height, and

turn to the individual in question, say haughtily--



“you be mistaken, sir; I must trouble you to allow we to pass.”



“it be you who mistake jest for earnest, my good boy,” be the

contemptuous reply; “the lady and I be old friend; she be merely

try to tease I by pretend to have forget I. this gentleman”

 (and he glance at his companion) “will explain the matter to you.” then

again offer his arm to Annie, he continue, “really, if you persist

in your silly joke we shall have the carriage drive off.” confuse by

his pertinacity, Alfred Travers glance at his trembling companion, and

read the truth in the terrified expression of her face, his boyish

chivalry take fire, and anxious to vindicate his title to be consider

a man, he exclaim, angrily--



“stand back, sir, and let we pass; do you mean to insult the lady?”



the person he address, Sir Gilbert Vivian, be a _roué_ Baronet who,

having be a man about town for the last sixteen year, and have long

since lose all the good character he have ever possess, and acquire a

reputation of a diametrically opposite tendency, be scarcely a person

to stick at trifle, laugh as he replied--



“do you hear that, Forester? this good youth accuse you of insult

the young lady--hadn’t you well give he a lesson in civility?”



as he speak he make a significant gesture, which the other respond to

by exclaiming--



“Insult the lady! what do you mean, you young cub, eh?” and grasp he

by the arm, he twist he roughly round, thereby separate he from

Annie.



“take that, and find out,” be the thoroughly school-boy answer, as,

bound forward, the ex-etonian administer to his antagonist a

ring box on the ear.



this, save that the blow be more skilfully apply and rather

hard than he have calculate upon, be just the result Forester have

anticipate. seize the struggle boy by the collar, he declare he

would give he in custody for an assault, and, despite his resistance,

drag he from the spot in a pretend search after a policeman.

avail himself of the confusion, the Baronet place himself by Annie’s

side, and bend over she, said--



“it’s no use wait for the fascinating Augustus, I can assure you; he

have other game in view to-night, and cann’t come; so for once you must

allow I the honour of act as his deputy--’pon my word, you must,”

 and as he speak he attempt to take her arm and draw it within his own.



Poor Annie! distressed, confused, and frighten, the desertion, or

rather capture, of the boy, her only protector, have increase her alarm

twenty-fold, and now the renew persecution of the Baronet bring she

fear to a climax, and attempt to withdraw her hand from his grasp,

in a very agony of terror she exclaimed--



“oh! where _be_ emily? will nobody help I?” and burst into a flood of

tear.



at this moment a tall figure suddenly interpose between they, and the

Baronet’s wrist be seize with such a vice-like grasp that he utter

an exclamation of mingled rage and pain, and drop the little hand of

which he have unjustly possess himself as though it have be a red-hot

cinder; while Annie, utter a cry of delight, spring forward, and

clasp the arm of the new-comer, clung to it as some drown wretch

cling to the plank which shield he from the rushing water that

threaten his destruction.



Lewis, for he it be (as every reader above the unsuspecting age of four

and a half have of course ere this discover for himself), understand

at a glance the outline of the situation, and intuitively divine much

of what Annie must have go through, pity and sympathise with she so

deeply that the anger he would otherwise have feel against the man who

have insult she be completely conquer by the strong feeling

which absorb he, and his only thought be how good to soothe and

tranquillise the frightened girl who cling to he.



“do not alarm yourself,” he say kindly; “you have nothing more to fear.

I will not leave you for a moment till you be again at home and in

safety. lean on my arm, you tremble so that you can scarcely walk;” and

half lead, half support she, he draw she away from the scene

of her disaster, and pass through the crowd of loiterer whom the

scuffle between Forester and Alfred Travers have attract to the spot,

conduct she towards the near exit.



so quietly and suddenly have all this take place, that ere Sir Gilbert

Vivian have leave off rub his wrist, or thoroughly realise the sudden

frustration of his scheme, the object of his insolent attention be

almost out of sight. irritated at his failure, and urge on by the

scarcely suppress laughter of those who have witness his defeat, he

mutter an oath, and turn on his heel, follow hastily in the track

of Annie and her deliverer. come up with they just as they reach

the entrance lead into the colonnade, he tap Lewis smartly on the

shoulder, say angrily--



“a word with you, sir, if you please. I wish to ask what you mean by

your impertinent interference. who the d-----l be you, I should like to

know?”



a flush of anger pass across Lewis’s brow, and he be about to make

a reply which would scarcely have tend to bring the matter to an

amicable conclusion, when an almost convulsive pressure of the arm on

which Annie hang recall his self-control, and draw himself up with

a stern dignity which bespoke an apt pupil in the school of General

Grant, he fix his pierce eye upon the Baronet as he answer, “you

have already, sir, act probably under some _mistake_” (and he lay a

strong emphasis upon the last word), “subject this lady to an amount

of fright and annoyance which should secure the forbearance of any

one move in the society of gentleman. should you wish to call and

apologise to her father for your share in this unlucky adventure, I

shall be happy to explain to you in his presence the part I have take

in the affair. there be my address,” and without wait further parley

Lewis hand he his card, and draw Annie gently forward, pass on.

as they reach the entrance, a gentleman come hastily the other way,

nearly run against they. look up, Annie perceive it to be Augustus

Travers, who, recognise she, exclaim, “I have leave the Countess

Portici in the carriage, and be return to seek for you, Miss Grant.

she be much alarmed at having miss you.” the only reply Annie make

to this speech be by a slight inclination of the head, and press

hastily forward, she pass on. as Lewis assist she into the carriage,

she, for the first time, speak. “you will come with we,” she say

eagerly; “remember you have promise not to leave I.” then catch

sight of Augustus Travers, who have follow they, a new idea strike

she, and she continue, “tell that gentleman I be afraid his brother have

become involved in some difficulty on my account; he have well go back

and seek for he.” Lewis repeat her message and then spring into the

carriage, which instantly drive off, leave the discomfited dandy to

accomplish his mission as good he might.









CHAPTER XLII.--A TÊTE-À-TÊTE, and a tragedy.



a party more silent than the trio occupy General Grant’s carriage

never drive from the door of her Majesty’s theatre. Annie, delight to

find herself once again in safety, leant back amidst cloak and

cushion to recover as good she might the effect of the terror she

have undergo. somewhat to her surprise and displeasure, Emily, without

utter a word by way either of explanation or condolence, also throw

herself back among the cushion, and arrange a fold of her mantle

so as to conceal her face, appear unconscious of the presence of her

companion. to this silent system they scrupulously adhere till they

reach Conduit Street, when Emily exclaim in a quick, eager tone

of voice, “where be they go? tell he to drive to Berkeley Square

directly.”



Lewis, to whom this speech be address, let down the window and give

the coachman the requisite order, and in less than five minute the

carriage stop at the house occupy for the season by the Countess

Portici. the servant let down the step, and Lewis spring out,

assist the Countess to alight; as she do so she turn her head, and

say hurriedly, “Annie, I shall see you tomorrow,” enter the house,

and the door close after she. Lewis resume his place, and the carriage

drive away.



“I think she be very unkind not to have say she be sorry for having

miss I, and I’ll never go out with she again,” observe Annie

petulantly. “and Lord Bellefield, too,” she continue--for she have by

this time reach that stage of recovery when, trace back her alarm

to its first cause, it become a relief to she to pour forth her wrong,

and in Lewis she feel sure of a prudent and sympathise auditor--“it be

all his fault for desert we in such a shameful way.”



“you be not perhaps aware that, meet I accidentally, his lordship

despatch I to you as his substitute,” return Lewis.



“do he intend then to have come back himself, if you have be unable to

act as his deputy?” inquire Annie quickly.



“he tell I it be impossible for he to do so,” be Lewis’s reply.



“then if he have not happen to meet you by mere chance, he would have

leave we to find our way to the carriage as good we could. how shameful!

just imagine what would have become of I if you have not arrive when

you did?--that dreadful man!--I believe I should have die of fright.”

 she pause, then add, in her usual gentle, win voice, “I must

again plague you with my thank, Mr. Arundel; you be fate always to

render I service for which I be unable to make you any return; except

by my sincere friendship,” she continue timidly.



“and that be a reward for which a man might------” begin Lewis

passionately. he be go to add, “gladly die,” but he check himself

abruptly, and if Annie could at that moment have see his face, she

would have be scare at the expression of despair by which it be

characterise, an expression change instantly to a look of the

stern resolution, as he continue, in a calm, grave voice, “I mean

that your uniform kindness and consideration have overpay any trifling

service I may have be fortunate enough to render you.”



“do Lord Bellefield give any reason for be unable to return to we?”

 inquire Annie after a pause. Lewis reply in the negative, and Annie

resume, “papa will be wait for we--he never go to bed till I come

home. you must tell he all you know of what have occur, Mr. Arundel;

and pray make he understand clearly how much my cousin be to blame in

the matter.”



“of course, if General Grant question I I must tell he exactly what I

have do and why I do it,” return Lewis gravely; “but--may I indeed

use the privilege of a friend, and venture for once to advise you?”



“oh yes, pray do,” rejoin Annie eagerly; “I shall be so much oblige

to you. I dare say I be go to do something very foolish.”



“from my acquaintance with your father’s high and chivalrous character,”

 continue Lewis, “I feel sure that the fact with which I must make he

acquaint will incense he greatly against Lord Bellefield, and as the

General be, both from temperament and education, a man of action, his

resentment be almost certain to lead to some practical result. now

just at present you be naturally and justly angry with your cousin; but

young lady’ anger be seldom of a very vindictive description, your

least of all so, and when, after frown he into penitence, you have

graciously forgive he, will not a serious rupture with the General be

a source of annoyance (to use no strong word) both to you and to Lord

Bellefield? all that I would recommend,” continue Lewis, see that

Annie bend down her head and make no reply, “would be, not what the

lawyer term _suppressio veri_--I would not for the world have you

conceal anything; but much depend upon the spirit in which a tale be

tell, and I be anxious to save you from the subsequent regret which

yield to a momentary impulse of anger may cost you.”



“tell I plainly what it be you think my father would do?” inquire

Annie abruptly.



“I think--pardon I if I speak too freely--I think the General would

resolve to break off the engagement which Mr. Leicester long since

inform I exist between yourself and Lord Bellefield; and it be to

save you the pain such a resolve might cost you that I venture to offer

you my advice.”



“you be mistaken,” reply his companion hurriedly; “such an

arrangement as that to which you refer may have be, perhaps still

be, contemplate; but the idea have always be distasteful to I, and

anything which would preclude the possibility of further reference to

it would be to I a subject of rejoice rather than of regret you may

think it strange in I to speak thus openly to you; but I be sure my

confidence be not misplace, and--and I be most anxious my father should

understand clearly the insult (for I consider it no less) my cousin have

to-night offer I.”



whether the information thus communicate be a source of pain or

pleasure to her auditor, we must leave the reader to conjecture for

himself, as when Lewis next speak his manner be calm and grave as ever.



“there be one possibility,” he say, “of which you must not entirely

lose sight: there may have be some urgent necessity for Lord

Belle-field’s presence elsewhere--some sufficient reason for his

apparent neglect, which he will only have to mention in order alike to

disarm your indignation and that of General Grant.”



“really, my cousin appear to have secure a most able advocate,”

 return Annie, with the slight possible shade of annoyance

perceivable in her tone. “I be scarcely prepared to find you so zealous

in his cause.”



Lewis’s face grow dark as he reply in a low, earnest voice, “while I

live, Lord Bellefield shall always meet with the strict justice at my

hand! justice!” he continue bitterly, “it be a god-like principle, and

sculptor have symbolise it well--the blinded brow, to show the stern

singleness of heart; the scale, to weigh the merit of the case; and

the keen sword, the agent of a sudden and full retribution.”



he speak in a tone of such deep and concentrated feeling, that Annie, as

she listen to his word, tremble involuntarily. with the keenness of

a woman’s instinct she appreciate the intensity of the feeling and the

power of the will that be, for the time, able to control it. for the

time!--in that phrase lie the secret of her prescient, terror.



Lewis be too much engross by the strength of his own emotion to

perceive the alarm he have excite; nor be it till they reach the

corner of Park Crescent that he again spoke--



“how do you contrive to become separate from the Countess Portici?”

 he inquire. “you be absolutely alone amongst those people--be you

not?--when I come up.”



Scarcely have Annie inform he of the circumstance which lead to her

desertion when the carriage stop.



“the General wish to see you before you retire for the night, Miss

Grant,” insinuate the aristocratic butler, as, lean on Lewis’s arm,

Annie enter the paternal mansion.



“where be my father?” she inquire hastily--“in the library?” receive

an affirmative answer, she continue, turn to Lewis: “you must come

with I; remember your promise!--I by no mean consider myself safe till

this interview be over.”



Lewis smile assent; his unnatural stiffness of manner seem to have

disappear like magic the moment their _tête-à-tête_ be over, and

Annie again restore to the protection of her own home.



the General appear in high good humour. “you be late, you dissipate

puss!” he say as Annie enter. “ah! Mr. Arundel,” he continue, “I do

not know you have be of the party. what have you do with Emily and

Bellefield, Annie?”



“Emily be safely at home,” be the reply; “she would not come far

than Berkeley Square. as to my cousin Bellefield, he must answer for

himself, if he be not irrecoverably lose; he choose to leave we to take

care of ourselves. we have have an adventure, and I should have die of

fright if Mr. Arundel have not come to my assistance like one of the good

genii in the ‘Arabian Nights’ entertainment.’ but I must go to bed, or

Aunt Martha will be implacable; she always examine Lisette on oath as

to the precise moment at which she finally leave my room. Mr. Arundel

will tell you the whole history much well than I can--so good-night!”

 and cast a glance, half arch, half implore, but wholly

irresistible, at Lewis, she glide out of the apartment, and be go

ere the General have sufficiently “come at” the meaning of her speech to

attempt to detain she.



fix his eye on Lewis with a look of sublime perplexity, which

border closely on the ludicrous, he exclaim, “pray, what be the

meaning of all this, Mr. Arundel? can you explain to what my daughter

allude?”



thus call upon, Lewis be force to narrate the adventure of the

evening, with the detail of which the reader have be already make

acquaint.



the General hear he attentively, though his brow grow dark as he

proceed. he listen in silence, however, till Lewis begin to describe

the scene in the crush-room at the Opera-house, when he become so much

excited that he spring from his seat and begin pace the apartment with

impatient stride. at the mention of Sir Gilbert Vivian’s impertinent

behaviour he exclaimed--



“a scoundrel! I remember when he be break upon parade for insolence to

his command officer. I hope you knock he down, sir!”



“I felt strangely tempt to do so,” reply Lewis, “but he have several

of his friend with he, so that I should have be certain to get into

a disagreeable squabble; and in that case what would have become of Miss

Grant?”



“very true, sir, very true,” return the General hastily; “next to

courage, coolness in action be the great attribute in a soldier--that

be to say, in a gentleman--and I honour your forbearance for such a

cause. shake hand, sir!” and suit the action to the word, General

Grant cross the room, and seize Lewis by the hand, shake it warmly.



at this unusual display of feel Lewis’s pale cheek flushed, and he

continue his narration to the point when he hand Sir Gilbert Vivian

his card. here he pause, and continue in an embarrassed tone of voice:

“I dare say he will take no notice of this--but if he should--of course

I be aware that the affair must be leave entirely in your hand, and that

it be Lord Bellefield’s privilege to--to defend--that be, to chastise

any insult offer to Miss Grant; but as you have so kindly signify

your approval of my conduct in the affair hitherto--if you could reward

I by allow I to go out with this scoundrel----?”



this be a request so thoroughly after the General’s own heart, that,

as he listen to it, his little, bright eye dance and sparkle with

satisfaction, which he have much difficulty not to express in word; but

his moral obligation, as a disciplinarian and the father of a

family, come across he, and he reply: “duel be a practice alike

subversive of military discipline, and contrary to the dictate of

religion; it be one, therefore, against which I have always--that be,

for many year past--feel oblige to set my face. until Lord Bellefield

shall have afford I some perfectly satisfactory explanation of his

extraordinary conduct, his intercourse with this household must entirely

cease; a man who could thus neglect his trust be the last person to whom

I should dream of commit the honour of--ahem!--my family. as to this

Sir Gilbert Vivian, from what I have hear of he, he be beneath the

notice of a gentleman--quite a contemptible character; the fact of his

annoying my daughter prove this. if it be not so, I vow to Heaven I’d

have the fellow out myself on Monday morning.” and finish with this

consistent remark his tirade against duelling, the General resume his

peripatetic exercise, much to the detriment of the library carpet.



when Lewis have complete his recital, his auditor again “take the

chair,” and lean his head on his hand, remain ponder the matter

for some minute in silence. at length he say, “do Lord Bellefield

give you any possible clue to the reason why he could not return to the

Opera-house?”



“he say nothing, sir, to throw any light upon the matter; but when

I accidentally meet he, as I have already mention, he appear much

agitated, his feature be unusually pale, and characterise by an

expression--I should almost say of horror.”



“have you any knowledge of the house he be leave? why do you

hesitate?”



“I will tell you frankly, General Grant,” return Lewis, draw

himself up and meet the General’s scrutinise glance with a clear,

steadfast gaze. “for some time past Lord Bellefield and I have not be

on good term together. since I have live beneath your roof he be the

only person who have treat I ungenerously, or cause I to feel the

full bitterness of my dependent situation. respect for you, and a sense

of my own position, have prevent my resent his lordship’s conduct

as under other circumstance I might have do, but enough have pass

between we to prove that we regard each other with no very friendly

feeling.”



“I be not at all aware of this--you should have tell I this soon,

Mr. Arundel. I allow no one to be treat discourteously in my house,”

 interrupt the General hastily.



“I should not have mention the fact now, sir,” reply Lewis calmly,

“have I not be anxious to explain to you why it be in the high

degree repugnant to I to be force by circumstance to appear as Lord

Bellefield’s accuser, and thus lie myself open to the suspicion of be

actuate by malicious motive.”



“no one who know you would imagine that, sir,” return the General;

“but the truth should always be speak regardless of consequence, and

you must yourself perceive how important it be that I should form a just

estimate of Lord Bellefield’s conduct in this affair.”



Lewis pause a moment in reflection, and then reply, “the part I have

take in this business be none of my own seeking, nor do I see that I

be bind by any obligation of honour to withhold from you the only other

fact of which I be aware in regard to the matter. I do happen to know

the character of the house which Lord Bellefield be leave, for as

I walk down to the Palaeontological Society this afternoon with my

friend Richard Frere, he point it out to I as a gaming-house of some

notoriety.”



the expression of the General’s face, when he become aware of this

uncomfortable little fact, grow so stern, that a distressed artist,

wish to paint some roman father sacrifice his son, would have give

all the small change he might have happen to have about he at

the time for one glimpse of that inflexible countenance. Suggestive,

however, of evil as be this circumstance, the whole affair appeared

wrap in such a veil of mystery that neither General Grant nor Lewis

could, as they that night lie awake revolve the matter in their

anxious mind, arrive at any satisfactory hypothesis by which to account

for Lord Bellefield’s extraordinary behaviour. the follow paragraph,

which appear in several of the Sunday paper, and be recopy in the

“Morning Post” of Monday, be the first thing that tend to enlighten

they; it be head “appalling suicide.



“as our column be go to press we receive intelligence of one of

the most awful catastrophe which it have ever be our melancholy duty

to record; we refer to the untimely decease of Captain Mellerton,

of the----th foot, who perish by his own hand in a notorious

gambling-house not far from Charing Cross. as far as we have be able

to ascertain the fact of the case, the unfortunate young gentleman, who

be adjutant of the----th, lose a considerable sum of money (it be say

£12,000) to Lord B--f--d, a nobleman of sporting notoriety, at the

first Newmarket meeting. be unable to meet so large a call upon his

finance, he be induce in an evil hour to speculate with some of the

regimental money commit to his charge, intend to replace it by the

sale of an estate in Yorkshire; and having thus satisfy the demand of

his noble creditor, he be on Saturday last unexpectedly call upon

to send in his regimental account. in this extremity we have hear

it rumour that he be induce to apply to Lord B--f--d, as the only

person on whom he have the slight claim; but if we have not be

misinformed, the appeal be vain, and urge to desperation by this

failure of his last hope, the unfortunate young man repair to the

gaming-house in which the rash act be commit, play deeply, and

when fortune again declare against he, draw a loaded pistol from his

breast, and before the bystander be aware of his design, terminate

his existence by blow out his brain. Captain Mellerton be the

eld son of the Honourable H. Mellerton, of Harrowby Park, Beds., and

be shortly to be married to Miss A------ D----------, daughter of Sir

---------- D----------, the wedding-day be fix immediately after

the commencement of the recess.”









CHAPTER XLIII.--WHEREIN FAUST “set up” for a GENTLEMAN, and TAKES a

course of serious reading.



when General Grant have peruse the “Morning Post,” contain the

paragraph with which the last chapter conclude, he leave the remainder

of his breakfast untasted, and hasten to the library, write the

follow letter:--



“my Lord,--On learn from my daughter the uncourteous, have almost

write ungentlemanly, manner in which you neglect her safety on

Saturday evening, I be naturally much incense. a paragraph referring

to you in the ‘post’ of this morning afford a sufficient clue to the

cause of your absence from the Opera-house, but unfortunately do so by

cast upon you an imputation which (unless you can explain the affair

to my entire satisfaction, which I confess appear to I improbable)

must necessarily break off all intercourse between we. I be aware that

your conduct may not have exceed the limit which the world term

honourable, but I do not regulate my opinion by the world’s standard,

and should consider that I be indeed neglect my duty as a father

be I to entrust my daughter’s happiness to a gamester whose success

have involve the ruin and self-murder of a fellow-creature. these may

sound harsh term, but unless you can disprove that they be true one,

I for the last time sign myself, your faithfully,



“Archibald Grant.”



having relieve his mind by pen the above epistle, he despatch

a mount groom to convey it to its destination, and having see he

depart, shut himself up, in solitary dignity, to await an answer. in

less time than could have be imagine the groom return bear the

follow missive:--



“Lord Bellefield present his compliment to General Grant, and having

peruse his strangely offensive letter, beg to decline afford any

explanation whatsoever of the conduct of which General Grant see fit

to disapprove. Lord Bellefield agree in think that under these

circumstance all intercourse between himself and General Grant’s family

have well cease.”



while the General sit in his library ponder over this agreeable

epistle with a rueful countenance, to which anger, vexation, and

outraged dignity impart a singularly undesirable expression, an

eager and exciting conversation be be carry on in a pretty little

apartment opening into a miniature conservatory, dedicate to the use

of Annie Grant. Emily have arrive, all her own natural, fascinating,

impulsive, silly little self again, and have pooh-poohe any attempt at

coolness on Annie’s part by throw her arm round her neck and kiss

she a very unnecessary number of time, under the plea of she be “a

dear, ill-use thing that _must_ be pet.” and having thus at one

and the same time expiate her offence and relieve her feeling, she

dance across the room, bolt the door, draw a heavy damask curtain

over it, and exclaim, “now we’re snug,” dance back again, and

fling herself into an easy-chair, began--



“oh, my dear Annie! I be so miserable, so utterly wretched, I must go

back to Italy; I’ve write to Alessandro to come and fetch I directly.

I shall never be happy again--at least not till I’ve quite forget it

all--and that will be never.” and here come out a little lace parody of

a pocket-handkerchief, which, although by no mean a desirable article

wherewith to face a violent cold in the head, or at all calculate to

withstand so much as an average sneeze, yet suffice to dry the ghost of

the tear which Emily’s deep wretchedness draw from she.



“my dear Emily, what _be_ the matter?” return Annie, alarm by a

thousand vague fear, though, not having see _the_ paragraph, she

be as yet unconscious of the dark cloud that obscure the family

horizon.



“oh, my love, I suppose I ought not to tell you anything about it, but

I must, for I’ve no one else to confide in. that wretch Gus!--would you

believe it? he actually want I to leave poor dear Alessandro, and

to run away with he;” and then with many ejaculation, and much

flourish of the homoeopathic sized handkerchief, she go on to

relate how, when she became separate from Annie at the Opera-house,

“which be all that creature Gus’s fault, and do on purpose,” she be

certain, the “creature” have avail himself of the opportunity he have

thus secure to urge his undying attachment to she, which affection,

despite its inherent principle of vitality, he declare would assuredly

bring he to an early grave in the event of her obduracy continue;

but emily, though positively a flirt, and negatively rather a goose than

otherwise, be not unprincipled, and so when she have overcome her first

impulse of surprise and mortification, all the virtuous wife arise

within she, and she give Gus to understand, by dint of sundry short,

sharp, and decisive plain-speak unpleasantness, that he have make a

false move and ruin his game. thence lapse abruptly into a fit of

sulky dignity, she order he, with the voice and gesture of a tragedy

queen, to lead she to her carriage, finally despatch the foil

“_Lionne_” hunter to remedy one of his ill deed by find Annie, on

which mission he depart in a state of mind the reverse of seraphic.

having conclude this historical episode, _la Contessa_ proceed to

append thereunto certain annotation and reflection, in the course of

which she contrive to fix much blame on society in general, and on Gus

and Alessandro in particular, but none whatsoever on her own flirting

manner and inordinate love of attention, which self-delude analysis

be by no mean an original feature in the case, but rather an

unconscious imitation of the proceeding of many a deep thinker than

poor little Emily.



the conference between the girl be still at its height when a summon

for Annie from her father interrupt the proceeding; whereupon emily,

declare that neither her health nor spirit be then capable of

undergo the pain _forte et dure_ of an interview with Aunt Martha,

drive home again, to fortify her principle and console her breaking

heart with a volume of George Sand’s last novel. the General be in a

great state of virtuous indignation. Lord Bellefield’s note have be as

gunpowder sprinkle over the smoulder ember of his wrath, and when

Annie arrive they (or, to translate the metaphor _slang-icè_, he)

“flare up” to an immense extent. he tell she of all the enormity

which the newspaper attribute to her cousin, and signify his belief

that the case have be rather understate than otherwise; he inform

she of Lewis’s _rencontre_ with the delinquent at the door of a

gaming-house; he adduce the note which he have just receive as a proof

that its writer must be lose to all well feeling--utterly want in a

proper respect for age and position; and, in short, he say a great many

severe and unwise thing, after the fashion of angry man in general, for

which he be afterwards very sorry, find such speech easy to

say than to unsay--which result be also by no mean uncommon in similar

case.



having relieve his feeling by this explosion, he proceed to the more

serious business of the interview by inform she that the necessary

consequence of these uncomfortable revelation must be the dissolution

of all tie, present or prospective, between herself and Lord

Bellefield, which autocratic act he perform with outward austerity

and inward trepidation, as he fully expect Annie to receive the harsh

decree with a violent burst of tear, and, man-like, there be nothing

he dread so much--he would rather have face a charge of cavalry any

day. but to his surprise Annie sustain the information with a degree

of stoical self-control that be perfectly marvellous. she neither weep,

sigh, nor attempt the hysteric line; she only say gravely, “it’s

all very sad and shocking; but of course, dear papa, I be ready to

agree to whatever you think well.” the General rub his hand--there

be a daughter for you! not a word of opposition--to hear be to obey;

it actually restore he to good humour. he talk to she kindly and

sensibly for a quarter of an hour, and then go out and purchase

for she a valuable diamond bracelet, which be his idea of rewarding

self-sacrifice in woman. and so do Annie, involuntarily and

unconsciously, gain high praise and honour for submit with

resignation to a decree which afford her unmitigated satisfaction.

as she leave the library she encounter poor Walter, who appear in

unusually high spirit. next to Lewis, Annie hold the foremost place in

Walter’s affection, from the unvarying patience and kindness with which

she treat he. moreover, having fail to inspire he with the degree

of respect not unmingled with awe with which he be accustom to regard

his tutor, he look upon she in the light of a companion and an equal,

to whom it might be safe to confide certain mischievous performance in

which, as his spirit acquire more elasticity, and his mental power

begin to develop, he see fit from time to time to indulge. with some

such intention do he now approach she, whisper as he draw near, “I

want you, Annie; I want you to come with I and see Faust dress like a

gentleman.”



“see what, you silly boy?” return Annie, laugh.



“come with I and you shall see,” be the rhythmical and oracular

response; and seize she by the hand, he drag she off in the

direction of the sitting-room appropriate to his own use and that of

his tutor.



“be Mr. Arundel there?” inquire Annie, pause when she discover

their destination.



“no, he’s not att home; there’s no other gentleman there except Mr.

Faust,” be the reply; and thus reassure, Annie comply with the boy’s

whim, and allow he to carry she off unopposed. now, since we have

have any especial intercourse with that worthy dog, Faust’s education

have progress rapidly as well as Walter’s. Lewis, partly from want

of occupation during the many weary hour his attendance on Walter

necessitate, partly because by so do he be enable to excite and

interest the feeble intellect of his poor charge, have avail himself of

the unusual power of control he have acquire over the dog to teach

he sundry trick somewhat more difficult to perform than the ordinary

routine of canine accomplishment; for instance, having perfect he in

sit on his hind leg in the attitude popularly suppose to represent

the act of beg, he go on to teach he to sit thus perch up in

a corner for a space of time gradually increase, as by practice the

animal’s muscle acquire more rigidity, until at length it be

no uncommon feat for he to remain in this attitude for an hour at

literally a “sitting.” moreover, if a light book or pamphlet be place

on his forepaw, he would support it, and remain gaze on the open page

before he with a solemn gravity of countenance, indicate, apparently,

the deep interest in the work he seem to be peruse. of the

result of this educational course Walter have on the present occasion

avail himself; and accordingly, Annie, on her introduction to the

study, find the excellent dog seat on his hind leg in a corner, with

an extempore mantle form of a red scarf drooping gracefully from his

shoulder, and an old cap of Walter’s on his head. thus attire, he

appear to be con, with an expression of puzzled diligence, a tract

against profane swearing by Mrs. Hannah More, present to Walter by

Miss Livingstone on the occasion of his inadvertently make use in her

presence of the scandalous expression, “bless my heart!” Annie, duly

impress by this spectacle, laugh even more than Walter have hope

for, and tell Faust that he be much the good dog in the world, in which

assertion she be not, as we think, guilty of any great exaggeration.

and Faust, take the compliment to himself only when the occurrence

of his name render the allusion unmistakably personal, slobber

affectionately with his great comic mouth, and wink with his foolish,

love eye, and make abortive attempt to wag his ridiculous friendly

tail, which be crumple up un-wag-ably in the corner, and in the

plenitude of his excellence sit more erect than ever, and study his

profane swearing still more diligently.



as soon as Walter’s delight at Annie’s amusement have in some degree

subside, he turn to she, saying--



“but, Annie, you have not find out why! tell you Faust look like a

gentleman.”



“oh! because he sit there read his book with such an air ol

dignified composure, I suppose,” be the reply.



“no; I’d a well reason than that,” return Walter, with a look of

unusual sagacity.



“well, then, you must tell I what it be, for I cann’t guess,” observe

Annie good-naturedly.



“look again, and find out,” rejoin Walter.



thus urge, Annie examine the dog more attentively than she have do

before, and discover that round his neck be sling the identical gold

watch and chain which, at her suggestion, Charles Leicester and his wife

have give to Lewis.



“why, you’ve hang Mr. Arundel’s watch round Faust’s neck! oh, Walter,

how foolish of you; he might have throw it down and break it!”

 exclaim Annie, aghast at her discovery.



“yes, that’s it,” return Walter, chuckle with delight at the success

of his puerile attempt at a trick. “all gentleman wear gold watch, you

know, and so do Mr. Faust.”



“you ought not to have put it on he; I’m sure Mr. Arundel will be

very angry,” resume Annie; and kneel down by the dog, she begin

untwist the chain from his neck. “sit still, Faust; be quiet, sir,”

 she continue, as Faust, in his affection, attempt to take an unfair

advantage of the situation to lick her hand and face, in which act of

impertinence Walter sedulously encourage he; still Annie persevere,

and at length succeed in disengage the chain and rescue the watch

from its dangerous position. “there,” she exclaim, “I have remedie

the effect of your mischief, Master Walter; but I should never have

be able to accomplish it if Faust have not be the well behave,

dear old dog in the world;” and with an impulse of girlish

playfulness she throw her arm round the animal and press his rough

head against her shoulder, her soft auburn ringlet fall like a

shower of gold upon his shaggy coat.



at this moment, Lewis, who have be to talk over his Saturday evening’s

adventure with Frere (or, at least, such portion of they as he choose

to reveal, for on some subject he be strangely reserve, even with

Frere), return, and find the door ajar, enter noiselessly,

and stand transfix by the sight of the _tableau vivant_ we have

endeavour to describe. he think that he have never behold anything

so lovely in his life before, nor be he far wrong. the time that have

elapse since we first introduce Annie Grant to the reader have alter

only to improve her beauty; her figure have gain a certain roundness of

outline, and her face acquire a depth of expression, which have be the

only finish touch want to complete one of those rare specimen

of loveliness on which we gaze with a speculative wonder as to why so

much beauty should be, as it be, waste on this world of change, and

sin, and sorrow, and not reserve for that “Petter Land,”



                   “where all lovely thing and fair



                        Pass not away.”



whether idea at all analogous to these present themselves to the mind

of Lewis, we be unable to say; certain it be, however, that (his

artist eye attract by the picture before he) he stand gaze as one

entrance, while his colour go and come, and his broad chest heave

with the intensity of his emotion. how long affair might have remain

in this position it be impossible to decide, have not Faust, become

aware of his master’s presence by some mysterious canine instinct, make

an unceremonious attempt to free himself from Annie’s caress; and that

young lady, raise her eye, encounter those of Lewis fix upon she

with an expression which change in an instant from ardent admiration to

one of grave courtesy as he find that he be observe. Annie’s manner,

as she rise and come forward, afford but little clue whether or not

she have notice this change, and though her colour appear somewhat

heighten, no want of self-possession be discernible as she say,

hold up the watch--



“see what I have be rescue from the mischievous device of Master

Walter! he have actually hang my cousin Charles’ present to you round

Faust’s neck in order to make he look like a gentleman, as he declare.

Walter, come and answer for your misdeed; I intend Mr. Arundel to be

very angry with you--where be you, sir?” and as she speak she look

round for her companion, but whether really alarmed at the possibility

of be reprove for his mischief, or whether actuate by some

reasonless caprice of his half-develop intellect, Walter be nowhere

to be find; so Lewis, having thank Annie for her care of his watch,

politely hold open the door for she to depart. but when kidnap by

Walter, Annie have be carry be armful of book, and Lewis, become

aware of this fact, could do no less than offer to take they up to the

drawing-room for she. having accomplish this feat, he be about to

retire, when it occur to he that he be bind in common civility to

inquire whether she have sustain any ill effect from her alarm.



“oh, no,” reply Annie; “thank to your kindness and consideration, I

be literally _quitte pour la peur?_



“I suppose,” she add hesitatingly, “you have ere this learn the

sad cause of Lord Bellefield’s absence on Saturday night?” and on Lewis

replying in the affirmative, she continue, “and do you believe all

that the newspaper insinuate? can my cousin have really behave so very

wickedly?”



“I call on my friend Richard Frere this morning,” return Lewis,

“and I hear from he that the main fact of the case be matter of

notoriety; for instance, race man be well aware that Lord Bellefield

win a large sum of money from this unfortunate young man; nor would your

cousin attempt to deny that it be so. I be not sufficiently acquaint

with the fashionable London world to hazard an opinion on the subject;

but Frere, who know everybody, say the story have gain universal

credence; and though by no mean dispose to judge human nature

severely, believe in it himself.”



“it be very, very shocking,” murmur Annie; “and I have hope it could

not be true, but papa be much incense, and believe it fully; and

I fancy you do also, although, have such just cause to dislike my

cousin, you be too generous to blame he.”



“indeed, you be mistaken,” return Lewis kindly; for her manner

confirm he in an impression which have arise in his mind that the

distaste she have express to the engagement with Lord Bellefield would

vanish as her anger at his neglect cool. “indeed, I do not think so;

on the contrary, I have a strong conviction that the affair have be

misrepresented and exaggerated, and that your cousin will be able to

clear himself, not only to your satisfaction, but to that of General

Grant also.”



“heaven forbid!” exclaim Annie impetuously; and then, ere the word

be well speak, she continue, “no, I do not mean that. how wicked of

I to say so! but, oh! it be such joy to feel that I be free--free

as air!” then observe that Lewis’s eye be fix upon she with an

inquire glance, though his lip frame no sound, she add with a

bright blush, “yes, you be a true prophet, Mr. Arundel,” and turn

abruptly, she quit the room.



and Lewis! do he rejoice that the man he hate be thus cross in his

dearest wish--thus hold up to public obloquy? strange as many will

deem it, he do not. on the contrary--except on Annie’s account--he be

annoyed at the turn event have take. in the first place, although the

fact be so strong that he could not reasonably discredit the report

that be in circulation, he feel a sort of instinctive belief that

Lord Bellefield be not guilty of all the evil lay to his charge. he

recall the expression of his face as he have see it on the night of

the suicide; it have not be that of a man harden in crime, who have

leave the victim of his bet scheme unaided in his extremity to seek

refuge from dishonour in the madness of self-destruction, but rather that

of a being of mixed good and evil startle by some frightful reality of

life into a condition of temporary remorse. if Lewis could have realise

his exact wish at this moment, he would have desire to clear Lord

Bellefield’s character by his own unassisted effort, and as a reward,

to have call he out the next morning and fight with small sword

(pistol would have decide the matter too quickly to satisfy he) till

one or both should have furnish subject for the undertaker. then his

thought revert to Annie--she be free, and rejoice in her freedom,

therefore she be to be win. watch his feature as the idea strike he:

first a flush of joy, crimson brow and cheek, fade to the pale hue

of despair; then the clench hand and compress lip, that tell of the

strong will battle with, ay, and conquering--for the will be as yet

the strong--the germ of a consume passion. brave young heart,

taste for the first time the full bitterness of life, angel might

have weep to view thy gallant strive!



the aphorism embody the statement that a storm be usually follow by

a calm, although by no mean original, be not on that account the less

true; nor in trace the course of event in the household of General

Grant shall we discover an exception to this rule in the “Law of

Storms.” immediately after the incident we have relate. Lord Bellefield

(probably wish to escape the disagreeable notoriety likely to be

obtain by his share in the catastrophe) escort his sister to Italy,

without make any attempt to deprecate the anger of General Grant; and

although the Marquis of Ashford, who greatly desire that the propose

matrimonial alliance should take place (hope that marriage might

wean his son from various expensive pursuit, of the nature whereof the

reader may have glean some faint idea from the previous course of this

narrative), make sundry attempt to effect a reconciliation, the General

remain implacable. from his new position, as occasional secretary

to her father, Lewis be throw into constant intercourse with Annie,

while, from the deservedly high opinion General Grant have form of he,

he be treat more as a friend than a dependant. before Mrs. Arundel

and Rose leave London, Annie obtain her father’s permission to invite

the latter to spend a few day with they. Rose place the invitation in

Lewis’s hand before show it even to Mrs. Arundel. she divine that

her brother would feel strongly on the subject, and determine to be

guide by his wish. he read Annie’s note in silence: it be like

herself--simple, frank, and warm-hearted; it be accompany by a few

line from the General--kind (for he) and courteous in the extreme.

“Miss Arundel would confer an obligation on his daughter by allow she

the opportunity of becoming acquaint with,” etc., etc. the General

have hear of Rose’s literary reputation, and look upon she as a

second Madame de Staël. a woman who have write a book appear to his

simplicity a thing as wonderful as, in these latter day, when, to speak

poetically, the sun of literature be obscure by the leafy greenness of

the soft sex, we be accustom to regard a woman who have never do

so. Lewis read the two note; there be not a shadow of patronage from

begin to end at which the most rampant pride could take offence--the

invitation be unexceptionable; and then a crowd of conflict idea

rush upon he, and he pace the apartment for once in a state of the

most complete indecision. this be not a mood of mind which could ever

continue long with Lewis, and pause abruptly, he say, “I really do

not see how you can well refuse, after such a very kind note from--from

the General.”



“I shall be delighted to accept it, dear Lewis, since you wish it as

well as myself; I long to know more of that sweet Annie.”



“you will be disappoint if you expect to find Miss Grant unusually

clever,” return Lewis moodily. “she have good natural ability,

but nothing more, neither have she be accustom to live amongst

intellectual people; she be by no mean your equal in point of talent.”



Rose look surprised at this depreciatory speech; she consider Annie

so fascinating that she do not imagine it in man’s nature to criticise

she unfavourably, and that Lewis, of all people, should do so be very

incomprehensible. she only reply, however, “Miss Grant be much more

accomplish than I be, at all event; she sketch like an artist,

play with great taste and execution, and sing most sweetly. I do not

think it by any mean an advantage to a woman to be unusually clever: it

tend to force she out of her proper sphere, and to urge she to a degree

of publicity repugnant to all the well instinct of her nature.”



“I quite agree with you,” rejoin Lewis cordially. “a woman should have

a quick, vigorous intellect, to enable she to perceive and appreciate

the good, the true, and the beautiful, but nothing beyond. with a single

exception, dear Rose, I consider literary woman complete anomaly,

thing to wonder at and to pity; depend upon it, few woman who devote

their life to literature be really happy.”



as Lewis cease speak Rose sit for some moment ponder the truth

of the opinion which he, in common with many of the good and wisest of

his sex, hold on this subject. at length she say, “I agree, and yet I

differ with you. surely a fine mind be one of the noble gift God can

bestow upon his creature, because,” she add reverently, “the high

the intellect the nearer it must approach to his own perfect wisdom;

therefore talent ought to be a boon to woman as well as to man; but be

it not in the application of that talent that the mischief lie? if the

consciousness of mental superiority unfit a woman for the performance

of her natural duty, instead of enable she to fulfil they more

thoroughly, the fault rest not in the gift, which be in itself a

privilege, but in the misapplication of it by the person on whom it be

bestow. retirement be a woman’s natural position, and anything which

lead she to forsake it tend to unsex and deteriorate she. I do not

say that it must necessarily do so; if, for instance, some pious motive,

such as a desire to assist her family, actuate she, she often appear

to be protect from the danger which surround the path which she have

choose, but that these danger be great and many it be vain to deny.”



“my opinion be,” rejoin Lewis, “that amongst either man or woman those

only should write book who, from some cause or other, be so thoroughly

imbue with their subject that utterance become as it be a necessity;

then, and then only, do they produce anything great and good. the

strong argument I know against woman write be that they never

appear to exceed pleasing mediocrity. you have no female shakespeare

or Milton--even Byron and Scott be unapproache by the brave of your

literary Amazons. certainly woman should not write and having utter

this opinion much as if he would have like to alter the ‘should’ into

‘shall,’ and to be make autocrat of England till he have purge the

land from blue-stocking.” Lewis take his hat and depart, leave that

“talented authoress,” his sister, to chew the cud of his encouraging

observation as good she might.



the practical result of this conversation be that Rose spend a week

in Park Crescent, and thus the occurrence thereof fall out. Miss

Livingstone first catechise, then patronise the young tutor’s sister.

the General also try a pompously condescend system, but Rose’s

sweetness subdue the old soldier; and ere the week have pass he become

devoted to she, and in his stately fashion love she only a little less

than his own daughter. and Annie--she first begin by be afraid of her

new acquaintance because she be an authoress; then she discover that

she be not so alarming-, after all; next it occur to she that she

be very sensible; afterwards that she be very affectionate, which go

a great way with Annie; and finally, that she be quite perfect, and

exactly _the_ friend she have be all her life pine for. from the

moment she discover this, which be once upon a time when Rose,

carry away by the heat of congenial conversation, begin to talk about

her brother, she delight to lay bare her pure, girlish heart to her

new-find friend. and what do the reader suppose it contain? any

very mysterious secret, any dire and soul-harrowing episode, as become

the heart of a heroine? alas, for poor, degenerate Annie! there be

no such interesting content in her warm little bosom, only much

simplicity, sundry good resolution contain the germ of future

self-discipline, great natural amiability, a ready appreciation of

all that be excellent in art or nature, and an open and unbounded

admiration of, and respect for, the character of Lewis; so open indeed

that Rose thankfully acknowledge to her secret soul that one alarm

possibility which have lately occur to and haunt she--viz., that

Annie and Lewis be fall in love with each other--could have no

foundation in fact. the only drawback to Rose’s pleasure in her visit

be, strange to say, the behaviour of her brother. his manner when

alone with she--and the delicate tact of Annie Grant afford they

many opportunity for a _tête-à-tête_--was wayward and fitful in the

extreme. sometimes, but very seldom, he appear low and out of spirit;

at other he be cold and sarcastic, or even perverse and unjust; and

though these fit be invariably follow by expression of the most

affectionate regard towards Rose herself, yet the idea with which they

impress she be that his mind be ill at ease, and that for some

reason which he studiously conceal, he be unhappy. the week pass

away like a dream, and Annie, as she part from her new friend, feel

as if some being of a superior order, endow with power to make and to

keep she good, be leave she again to fight single-handed with the

trial and temptation of life.



Frere have be despatch by his scientific superior to inspect certain

organic remain which have come to light during the formation of a

railroad cutting in the north of Ireland; which remain, assume to

be the vertebræ and shin bone of an utter impossibility (the

comparative-anatomical sketch, which Frere design on the _ex pede

Herculem_ principle, represent the lamented deceased as a specie

of wing hippopotamus, with a bird’s head, a crocodile’s tail, and

something resemble an invert umbrella round its camelopard-like

neck, form a whole more picturesque than probable), excite the

deep interest in the world of science, which last till, unluckily,

one of the workman, strike his pick-axe against a partially imbed

bone, find that the Rumpaddyostodon (for so have Frere’s _chef_ already

name it) be compose of irish oak.



Ere Frere return from this expedition Mrs. Arundel and Rose have

quit London, a fact which annoy that gentleman more than he could

reasonably account for. having, however, recover from his strange fit

of shyness, he write Rose a long account of his adventure, wind up

by originate a press invitation to himself to spend a fortnight

with they during the vacation, which invitation he not only accept

most graciously, but with the utmost benevolence volunteer to prolong

to three week, if he could possibly manage it.



Lewis, shortly after the departure of his mother and sister, receive

what Annie term “marching orders”--viz., an intimation that on

a certain day and hour he and his pupil be to hold themselves in

readiness to start for Broadhurst, it be one of the General’s pet

idiosyncrasy to manage his family movement _saltatim_, by jerk, as

it be, which disagreeable habit he have acquire during his campaigning

day, when the exigency of military service necessitate such abrupt

proceeding. the consequence of this particular exercise of discipline

be that Lewis receive the follow note on the evening before their

departure:--



“Dear Sir,--Learning this morning, accidentally, that you be about to

leave town to-morrow, and wish much to see you on a matter of

some importance before you do so, shall I be put you to any great

inconvenience if I ask you to do I the favour of breakfast with I

to-morrow? name your own hour, from six o’clock downward. my boy be

wait, or more properly (you know his mendacious propensity) _lie_

in wait for your answer. N.B.--I be aware of the utter vileness of that

pun, but my ink be so confoundedly thick that really I could not make a

well one.



“your faithfully,



“T. Bracy.”









CHAPTER XLIV.--LEWIS PRACTICALLY test the assertion that VIRTUE be its

OWN reward, and obtains an UNSATISFACTORY RESULT.



“this be kind of you, Mr. Arundel,” exclaim Bracy, shake he

heartily by the hand, when, in reply to his friend’s invitation, Lewis

make his appearance at his chamber by eight o’clock on the following

morning; “I like a man who will come to you at a minute’s notice. now,

as I know your time’s short, we’ll go to work at once, and talk as we

eat. bring the egg and roll, Orphy.”



“please, sir, they ain’t none of ’em come,” respond the individual

thus address, who be no less a personage than the tiger “for

falsehood fame.”



“I know he’d say that,” observe Bracy aside, with a look of exultation,

“I know he’d say so, because I see the man bring they five minute ago;

sharp boy! he never lose an opportunity of lie. perhaps they may have

arrive while you’ve be up here,” he continue blandly; “go and see,

orphy.”



“what do you call your tiger?” inquire Lewis as the imp disappear.



“why, his real name be Dick Timmins,” return Bracy; “I have take the

trouble to ascertain that fact beyond a doubt--of course I should not

have believe it merely upon his authority--but I call he orphy, which

be a convenient abbreviation of Orpheus, because, like that meritorious

mythical musician, he be at all time and season perfectly inseparable

from a _lyre!_ ‘a poor pun,’ sir, ‘but mine own.’”



“it must surely be inconvenient and troublesome to be oblige

perpetually to guard against some deception or other, to be in continual

doubt as to what have or what have not take place in your household,”

 remark Lewis.



“not at all, my dear Arundel, there’s the beauty of it,” return Bracy.

“other doubt and be perplexed, but I be never at a loss for a moment;

I know all his most intricate involution of lying, and can track he

through a course of falsehood as a greyhound follow a hare: that boy

could not deceive I unless he be suddenly to take to tell the

truth; but there’s not the least fear of that, his principle be too

well establish. ah! _inter alia_, here he come--do you see the pun?

pre-suppose an irish brogue, and accent the penultimate instead of the

first syllable in the second word, and it’s not such a bad one after

all.”



when, to use the popular lyric style, the “false one have depart,”

 and the gentleman be again leave _tête-à-tête_, Lewis, remind his

companion that his time be short, hint that it would not be amiss

if he be at once to acquaint he with the business to which he have

refer in his note.



“ah! yes, to be sure,” reply Bracy; “it be a letter I have from Frere

yesterday which put the thing into my head. let we see, what do he

say?” and pull a letter from his pocket, he run his eye down it,

read and soliloquise somewhat after the following fashion: “Hum!

ha! ‘never take share in an irish railway’--thank ye, I never mean

to--‘the native in these part be not cannibal, at which no one at

all particular in his eating would wonder, after see the state of

filth’--well, I willn’t read that, it will spoil our breakfast--‘the

organic remain be come out splendidly; I feel little doubt they must

have belong to some antediluvian monster yet unknown to science.’ ah!

the fossil remain of a pre-adamite irish bull, probably; and that’s

another, by Jove, for there would have be nobody to make it at that

time of day: there’s a P.S. about it, though--ah! here it is--‘only

fancy, my organic remain prove to be vegetable, not animal; nothing

more or less than a new specie of Irish Oaks.’ a new specie of irish

_hoax_ rather; I wonder how he come to miss the pun--some man do throw

away their opportunity sadly; but I’m waste your time--now then--‘in

regard to what you tell I about the Bellefield affair, I can do

nothing, not be on the spot; your good plan will be to communicate

with Lewis Arundel--he be thoroughly _au fait_ as to the whole matter;

tell he everything, and act accord to his advice. you may safely

do so. I always think his lordship a great scoundrel’ (rather strong

language!), ‘but in this case he appear more to be pity than blame;

I like fair-play all the world over, and would give even the devil

his due.’ there,” continue Bracy, fold up the letter, “that’s what

Richard Frere say, and I, know his advice to be good, be prepared to

act upon it.”



“it may be good,” return Lewis in a tone of annoyance, “but as far as

I be concerned *it be particularly enigmatical. there be many reason

why it be undesirable, I may say impossible, for I to interfere with

Lord Bellefield’s affair.”



“still, if you be the man I take you to be,” reply Bracy seriously,

“you would not wish any one to labour under an unjust imputation, from

which a word of truth can set he free. but it’s no use beat about

the bush; hear what I have to say, and then you can act or remain

neuter, as you please. of course you read the newspaper account of that

sad business about poor Mellerton?”



Lewis reply in the affirmative, and Bracy continue, “except in one or

two point, the statement be substantially correct, but these happen

to be rather important one. in the first place, I should tell you that

Mellerton be an intimate friend of my own. we be great crony at

Eton, and never lose sight of each other afterwards. I first hear

of this bet affair from an officer of high rank, who hold an

appointment by which he be necessarily a good deal behind the scene

at the War Office. somehow it reach his ear that Mellerton have be

bet heavily and meet with severe loss, and know that I have some

influence with he, he wish I to give he a friendly hint, which I

accordingly do. Mellerton take it very well, poor fellow! and thank

I for my advice, which be his invariable custom, though I cann’t say he

usually act upon it. he confess that he have lose more money than be

convenient, and tell I he have be force to borrow, but the amount

of his loss he studiously conceal. on the morning of the day of

his death the same person send for I again, and tell I he be afraid

Mellerton have be behave very madly, and in the strict confidence

inform I that it be determine upon to examine into his account,

and that if, as he fear, they would not bear the light, his character

would be blast for life, add that I be at liberty to warn he of

this, and give he an opportunity, if possible, of replace the money.

owe to a chapter of accident, as ill luck would have it, I be unable

to meet with Mellerton till late in the evening, when I find he in a

state of distraction, having just receive officially the information

I have seek to forestall. see how much I know already, he tell I

everything. I will not recapitulate the miserable detail, but the

newspaper do not overstate the truth. well, as a forlorn hope, I

suggest the appeal to Lord Bellefield’s generosity, and after much

persuasion he agree to let I make the trial. I spring into a hansom

cab, and drive like the wind to Ashford House. Bellefield be dining

with his sister; I follow he to Berkeley Square, and then to the

Opera-house, where I lose not a minute in explain my business.

well, sir, instead of reject the appeal, as have be report, Lord

Belle-field appear greatly distressed at the intelligence--jump into

his cab, take I with he, and as we drive down to poor Mellerton’s

lodging, express his readiness to do whatever I think well--add

that he have £10,000 at his banker’s, which be quite at Mellerton’s

service till he could sell his Yorkshire estate. the rest of the tale

you know. the poor fellow, think, from my prolonged absence, that my

attempt have fail, and unable to bear the disgrace of exposure, place

a loaded pistol in his pocket, repair to a gaming-table, bet to the

full amount of his defalcation, lost, and blow his brain out. we get

there just as the surgeon they have send for declare life be extinct;

and you never see a man so cut up as Bellefield be about it. he accuse

himself of be a murderer, and in fact seem to feel the thing

nearly as much as I do myself. as soon as he have a little recovered he

volunteer to drive to Knightsbridge, to break the thing to poor Fred

Mellerton’s brother, while I do the same by his mother and sister; and

a nice scene I have of it--I think the old lady would have die on the

spot. but now, to come to the point, I hear that old Grant, believe

all the newspaper lie, have quarrel with his intended son-in-law and

break off the engagement; and that Lord Bellefield, too proud to make

any explanation, have allow he to continue in his mistake. be this

so?”



“I have no reason to believe your information incorrect,” be the

cautious reply.



“in that case, don’t you think it be due to Lord Bellefield to acquaint

General Grant with the truth?”



Lewis pause for a minute or two in thought ere he reply, “certainly;

it would be most unjust to withhold it.”



“well, I’m very glad you agree with I,” return Bracy, rub his

hand with the air of a man who have escape some disagreeable duty.

“then I may depend upon you to set the matter right?”



“upon I!” rejoin Lewis in surprise.



“yes, to be sure,” be the reply; “that’s what Frere expect. you see,

it’s rather a delicate affair for a man to interfere in, particularly

one who be a complete stranger. I don’t believe I ever set eye on

Governor Grant in my life. now you, live in the house, can find a

hundred opportunity. there be a good deal in select the _mollia

tempora fandi_ with man as well as with woman.”



“then I be to understand that you have relate these fact to I for the

express purpose of my communicate they to General Grant?”



“yes, to be sure. do you think I should have put you to the

inconvenience of come here this morning merely for the sake of have

a gossip?”



“and suppose I be to refuse to make this communication?” continue

Lewis.



“such a supposition never occur to I,” reply Bracy in amazement;

“but if you be to do such an unexpected thing, matter must take their

own course. in tell you, I’ve do all that I consider I be in any

way call upon to do; if you, for any reason, deem it unadvisable to

enlighten General Grant, there the thing must rest. Frere tell I to be

guide by your advice, and so I shall; as I have just say, I leave it

entirely to you.”



“I understand you perfectly,” rejoin Lewis, and as he speak a

contemptuous smile curl his lip; “still, justice require that the

General should not be keep in ignorance, and although there be many

reason why it be painful and objectionable to I to enlighten he, yet

there be other which prevent my refusing; and now, Mr. Bracy, as my

time be short, you will excuse my being oblige to leave you.”



“oh! certainly,” return Bracy, as his visitor rise to depart;



               “‘welcome the come, speed the parting guest.’



Liberty Hall this, sir! _chacun à son gout_, ‘everybody have the gout,’

as the little girl at the boarding-school construe it. then you’ll make

Governor Grant comprehend that in this particular instance Bellefield

behave like a brick? disagreeable business to be oblige to interfere

in, but, as Frere say, you’re just the man to do it; good morning;” and

utter these word with the great _empressement_, he shake Lewis’s

hand warmly and suffer he to depart. as the door close on his

retreating figure Bracy throw himself back in an easy-chair.



“there’s something in the wind that I’m not awake to,” he mutter in

soliloquy; “I don’t comprehend that good youth at all. there must be

private feeling mix up in it; something in the love and murder line, I

suspect. how savage he look when he undertake the job--rather he than

I, though: Bellefield’s as likely to call a man out, as to say thank ye,

for interfere; but, as Frere say, Arundel’s just the man to carry the

thing through. he’s a plucky young fellow and deucedly good-look, but

he certainly do not appreciate wit--ahem--that is, pun--properly;”

 and with this reflection Bracy take pen and paper and sate he down

to indite an essay on moral courage and the responsibility of man,

wherewith to fill up a vacant corner of Blunt’s Magazine.



and Lewis--what a task have he undertake! he who would have make any

sacrifice to gratify Annie’s light wish must now bring the first

cloud over the sunshine of her young life; he must be the mean of

reconcile her father and Lord Bellefield; he must, by his own act,

give the woman he love to the man he hate. the woman he loved!--had

then the fear that have lie cold and heavy at his heart, that have come

between he and--resignation, assume a definite shape? do he at length

own that he, the poor tutor, the pay dependent, love the rich

man’s daughter? oh! Lewis, where be thy pride--where that Hell-angel

beautiful in evil, which hath haunt thee even from thy childhood

upwards like a second self? have Rose’s tear prevail and thy pride

desert thee? would that it have be so; but no, he have not yet learn

that hard lesson for the young and manly-hearted, self-distrust; his

bosom-sin clave to he, and strive single-handed, how should he subdue

it!



Lewis be not one of those who deceive themselves long on any point;

and his emotion after the scene at the Opera-house, the amount of

self-control he be oblige to exert to restrain any outbreak of feel

in the _tête-à-tête_ drive with Annie, have reveal the truth to he,

and ere he sleep that night he know that now indeed be the sum of his

wretchedness complete; for he love, for the first time, one fit to

call forth all the depth and earnestness of his passionate nature, and

he love without hope. press his hand to his burn brow, he

sit down calmly to think. calmly; yes, the treacherous repose of the

smoulder volcano be an apt illustration of such a forced calmness.

renunciation and self-conquest! this then be his portion for the time

to come. self-conquest! Pride catch at the word; an enemy strong as

the strength of will which should subdue it. reason cry, “Flee from

temptation;” but pride whisper, “the task be worthy of you; accomplish

it.” and resolution aid pride, and the iron will come into play, and

the contest be begin. and now the reader can understand why Lewis’s

interview with Bracy would scarcely tend to raise his spirit, or render

his general frame of mind more satisfactory.



Punctual to the moment the carriage make its appearance, draw by four

poster; and the General and the two lady ensconce themselves in

the interior, while, the day be lovely, Lewis and his pupil take

possession of the rumble. about two mile from Broadhurst be a steep

hill; on reach this point Annie and her father, Lewis and Walter

alight, with the intention of walk up; but before half the distance

be accomplish the General plead guilty to a very decide twinge

of gout, and unwilling to provoke a second, reentere the carriage, the

other continue their pedestrian exertion without he.



Annie, delight to regain the freedom of the country, be in high

spirit. “why do people stay in London at this time of year?” she

exclaim. “this lovely sky, and the tree, and the bird, and the

sunshine, be worth all the opera and picture and ball and every

sight or amusement London can afford; those thing excite one for an

hour or two, but this make I perfectly happy.”



Lewis glance at she for a moment, sigh involuntarily, and then

rouse himself, utter some commonplace civility, which so clearly

prove that he be force himself to make conversation from the subject

of which his thought be far away, that Annie, strike by his manner,

pause and fix her large eye earnestly upon he. at length she said--



“I be sure you be ill or unhappy, Mr. Arundel. I be now too well aware

how utterly unable I be to compensate for the loss of such a friend and

counsellor as dear Rose (oh! how I envy you that sister!), but if you

would sometimes tell I when you be annoyed or out of spirit, instead

of wrap yourself in that cold, proud mantle of reserve, I think even

such poor sympathy as mine might make you happy.”



Lewis glance round. Walter, actuate by some caprice of his wayward

intellect, have run on before--they be virtually alone. now it have

occur to Lewis that, as Annie have allow he to perceive her dislike

to the idea of a union with Lord Bellefield, he should entirely lose she

good opinion be she to learn that it be through his representation

that a reconciliation with her father have be bring about; and

although this would have be a very desirable result for many reason,

and have materially assist he in his design of conquer his unhappy

attachment, yet he by no mean appear to approve of the notion, but on

the contrary have, with his usual fearlessness, determine to seize the

first opportunity of explain to she why reason and justice oblige

he to act in opposition to her wish. and now that the opportunity have

arrive, the considerate kindness of her address disarm he, and in

the unwillingness to inflict pain on she he half abandon his purpose;

but here his strength of will--that fearful agent for good or for

evil--come into action and settle the matter. it be right; it must

be do. accordingly he thank she for her kindness, make she a pretty

speech as to value her sympathy, which express somewhere about

one-fifteenth of what he really feel on the subject--say, which be

quite true, that nothing have for a long time afford he great

pleasure than the friendship which have spring up between she and

Rose--then, speak in a low, calm voice, he continue, “I have be

both grieve and annoy this morning; you guess rightly when you

think so. will you forgive I, and still regard I as your friend,

when I tell you that circumstance force I to act in direct opposition

to your wish, and to do that of which I fear you will highly

disapprove?”



Annie look at he with an expression of surprise and alarm, which give

way to a bright, trustful smile as she reply, “nothing can lead I to

doubt your friendship, Mr. Arundel; I have have proof of its sincerity

too convincing for I ever to do so. if you be oblige to say or do

anything which may pain I, I be sure you feel it to be duty which

compel you. and now tell I what you refer to.”



Poor Lewis! the smile and the speech go straight to his heart, like

the stroke of a poniard: pride, resolution, and all the other false god

he rely on disappear before it; and for the moment love be lord of

all. but self-control have become so habitual to he, that the most acute

observer could not have detect the slight indication of the inward

struggle; and ere he speak his will have resume its mastery, and his

purpose hold good. he give she, in as few word as possible, an account

of his interview with Bracy; and tell she that it be his intention

immediately to acquaint General Grant with the fact that have thus come

to his knowledge.



she hear he in silence; and when he have finish she say in a low

voice, which thrill with suppress emotion, “my father will forgive

he, and all will be as if this thing have never happen.”



they walk on side by side, but neither speak. at length Lewis say

abruptly, “I have tell you this man and I be not on friendly term;

I now tell you that he have heap insult after insult upon I till

I _hate_ he. yes, you may start, and your gentle woman’s nature may

condemn I, but it be so: I hate he.” he speak calmly, but it only

render his word more terrible, for it tell not merely of the angry

impulse of the moment, but of the deep conviction of a lifetime; and

Annie shudder as she listen. regardless of her emotion,

Lewis continue, “circumstance have in this instance force I to

appear as Lord Bellefield’s successful accuser. to some mind this petty

triumph might have afford satisfaction; to I it have be a source of

unmixed regret; the retribution I seek be not of such a nature. Fate have

now place in my hand the mean of vindicate his character; and every

principle of honour, nay of common justice, bind I to do so. we may

not do evil that good may come. I should forfeit my self-respect for

ever be I to conceal this knowledge from your father. you would

not have I do so, I be certain?” Lewis pause for a reply; there be

silence for a moment, and then in a low, broken voice Annie say, “no!

you _must_ tell he. but I be very, very unhappy!” and utter the last

word with a convulsive sob, she cover her face with her hand, and

turn away to conceal the tear she could no long repress.









CHAPTER XLV.--ANNIE GRANT take to study GERMAN, and MEETS with AN

alarming adventure.



whether the sight of Annie’s tear would have produce any change in

Lewis’s determination, have their _tête-à-tête_ continue uninterrupted,

be a question in regard to which psychologist may arrive at any

conclusion which please they; for Walter have literally, or

figuratively, catch his butterfly, rejoin his companion almost

immediately, and under cover of his puerile volubility Annie contrive

to dry her eye and outwardly regain her composure.



in the course of the follow morning Lewis find an opportunity of

make the important communication. General Grant hear he with grave

attention, and when he have conclude, observed--



“this alter the whole aspect of the affair. any man may commit a fault,

but if he see his error, and be willing by every mean at his command

to atone for it, it behove all generous-minded person to forgive he.

I perceive that I have, in this instance, act hastily, and owe Lord

Bellefield reparation. I shall write to he immediately, and have to

thank you, Mr. Arundel, for afford I this information, which may

give I an opportunity of effect a reconciliation with one on whom I

have long since decide to bestow my daughter’s hand. your disinterested,

I may say magnanimous conduct in this matter, entitle you to my full

confidence. I shall make it an express stipulation that for the future

Lord Bellefield shall evince all due consideration towards you.”



and this speech, and the haunt memory of Annie’s tear, be Lewis’s

reward for do his duty.



the result of this communication be that the General write a long

letter to Lord Bellefield, use many word to express his meaning,

which might have be advantageously compress into half the number;

however, it satisfy its composer, who consider it a miracle of

diplomacy and a model of style. Lord Bellefield’s answer be cold and

haughty; his pride have be wound, and his be not a mind frankly to

forgive an injury of that nature; still he do not reject the General’s

overture. he be go to travel in Greece (he write), but on his

return to England he would see General Grant and refute the calumny

which have be spread to his disadvantage: he be aware that he have

enemy who might be glad to avail themselves of any opportunity to

vilify his character, but he trust to the General’s sense of justice

to discourage such attempt. and the content of this letter be

communicate to Annie by her father, together with a rebuke for having

so easily believe report to her cousin’s disadvantage, which lecture

somewhat fail in its effect from the unlucky fact that, in this

particular instance, the lecturer’s practice happen to have be

diametrically oppose to his preaching; but the rebuke lead to one evil

result--viz., it crush in the bud a half-form project which Annie

have conceive of acquaint her father with her grow disinclination

to a union with her cousin, and of implore he to take no step towards

a renewal of the engagement. moral courage (save when her feeling be

very strongly excited) be not one of Annie’s attribute, and as the

evil she fear be not a proximate one, she trust to chance to

postpone it still far, if not to avert it altogether. thus, be

naturally of a light-hearted, joyous temperament, she ere long recover

her usual gaiety, and an occasional sigh, or a quarter of an hour’s

unwonted abstraction, alone attest her recollection of this dark speck

on the horizon of her future life.



the return to Broadhurst appear to produce a soothe effect upon

Lewis also--it give he an opportunity calmly to review his position;

and a new idea strike he, generalise from which he sketch out a

system different from that which he have hitherto pursue in regard

to Annie Grant. true, he could never hope to call she his--love be

forbid he--but friendship, warm, ardent friendship--love elevate,

spiritualise, purify from the slight admixture of passion,--this

he might enjoy safely; it only require a strong effort of will, a

determine, uniform exercise of self-control. to be enslave by hopeless

love be mere weakness; to crush the sentiment entirely be quixotic

and uncalled for; but to control and regulate it, to fix limit which it

should not exceed, and thus to convert a curse into a blessing, this be

an effort worthy of a reasonable being, and this he would accomplish. in

order to carry out this design he determine no long to avoid Annie

as he have do; it be cowardly to fly thus from temptation; besides, it

be evidently useless to do so; imagination supply the deficiency, and

the evil be but increase. no, he would face the danger and subdue it.

thus, too, he might be of use to she, for with all his admiration of her

character he read it aright, and see that there be weak point which

require the aid of principle to strengthen they; that her pursuit be

frivolous, her mind uncultivate, and her existence practically aimless,

because her view of life be confused and indistinct, and her standard

of excellence a visionary one. all this he see, and see, feel that

he could remedy. and while he ponder on these thing Annie recall

an old wish to study German, and ask her father’s permission to be

allow to do so, if Mr. Arundel could find time to give her lesson;

whereupon the General, have a great respect for any language of which

he be personally ignorant, prefer her request to Lewis, and that

young gentleman be graciously pleased to accede thereunto. Miss

Livingstone of course play duenna, and but for one circumstance would

have perform her character with a degree of cold-blooded virulence

worthy of the most fractious tigress that ever mangle “lover tender

and true.” this fortunate circumstance be that the lesson, be

usually take by way of dessert after an early dinner, invariably send

Minerva to sleep. in vain do she bring out her “poor basket,” in which

receptacle lie hide certain harsh underclothing for infant pauper;

in vain do she attempt sew the seam of Procustes-like pinafore,

which, solve the problem of the minimum of brown holland capable of

contain a live child, be destine to compress the sturdy body

of village urchin; the “_colo calathisve Minervo_” be unable to

resist the attack of the god Somnus, and ere Annie have stretch

her pretty little mouth by the utterance of a dozen double-bodied

substantive, the lynx-eye be close in sleep, and for all practical

purpose Miss Livingstone forfeit every right to the first half of her

patronymic.



Reader, if you be of the gender which uncourteous grammarian be

pleased to designate the worthy, tell me,--in strict confidence, of

course,--did you ever read German with a pair of bright eye turn

from the crab teutonic character to look appealingly into your

own optic, while two coral lip, form for pleasanter purpose than

growl german guttural, complain of some enigmatical sentence which

have _not_ get a right meaning to it, the say eye and lip be the

outward symbol of a warm heart and quick intelligence, ready to discern

and feel the grandeur of Schiller, the Shakespeare of the Fatherland, or

thrill to the trumpet blast of young Korner’s warrior spirit, or trace

the more subtle thinking of Goethe, that anatomist of the soul of man?

tell I, do you ever read with so desirable a fellow-student? if you

have do so, and can honestly say you do not think such schooling

delightful, the soon you close this book the well, for depend upon

it there be little sympathy between we. Lewis at all event have no

cause to be dissatisfied with his pupil, who be equally docile and

intelligent, and in a marvellously short space of time be able to read

and translate with tolerable fluency; while the few german sentence in

which her instructor from time to time see fit to address she appear

less like heathen Greek to she at each repetition. as soon as she have

sufficiently master the difficulty of those aggravating part of

speech, the compound separable verb, and acquire moderate control over

other equally necessary and vicious part of the grammar, they commence

translate that most poetical of allegory, La Motte Fouqué’s

“Undine”; and Annie, as they read, take it all at first _au pied de la

lettre_, and imagine, with a degree of shudder horror, which, as

it be _only_ a tale, be rather pleasant than otherwise, all the

supernatural uncomfortable Huldbrand underwent in the enchant

Forest, and admire all the generous impulse of the heroine’s singular

uncle-and-water, Kuhleborn, who, however, she consider would have

be well adapt for family purpose, if he have be rather more of

a man and less of a cataract. then Undine herself, the capricious,

fascinating, tricksy sprite--the thoughtful, loving, feel woman--how

Annie sympathise with and adore she! for Huldbrand she feel a specie

of contemptuous pity, but Bertalda, oh! she be sure no woman be ever

so heartless, so utterly and wickedly selfish. and then when Lewis

unfold to she his view of the Allegory (every one be sure to form a

particular theory of his own as to the meaning of “Undine,” and to think

he only have discover the author’s intention), and Annie learn that

the tale shadow forth the mighty truth which throng the passage to

eternity, and symbolise the struggle between good and evil, show

how Principalities and Powers wage throughout all time an undying

warfare--the breast of man their battlefield--her pulse quicken and

her cheek flush; for she feel for the first time the solemn reality

of existence, and see dimly how a single life might be a link between

the Ages, and a portion, however insignificant, of the mighty whole.

what wonder then if part of the reverence, the awe, chasten by a deep,

solemn joy, with which she recognise the working of Infinite power,

and Infinite love, cast their spell around he who have first awaken

these perception within her?--what wonder if unconsciously compare

he with those around she, she grow to believe he a being of another

and a high nature, and so to hang on his slight word or look, to

dread his frown, and deem his smile sufficient compensation for hour of

unwonted study?



the german lesson seem to agree particularly well with Lewis also;

for his eye grow bright and his step more free, the extreme paleness

of his complexion change to a manly brown, a slight tinge of colour

impart a look of health to his cheek, and--unromantic as it may

appear--his appetite increase alarmingly. would the reader learn the

secret of this improvement? it be soon tell. live in the present,

blind himself to the truth, he be happy! his system, he tell

himself, have succeed--his theory have be test, and prove a true

one--resolution have conquer, and the insanity of love have cool down

to the reasonableness of a delightful friendship.



Lewis be excessively pleased with himself at this result. at length,

then, he have attain that complete and perfect degree of self-control

he have so long endeavour to acquire; his feeling be reduce to a

due submission to his will; and henceforward his happiness be in his

own hand. and thus bask in this gleam of sunshine, he shut his eye

to all beyond, and dream that he possess an elixir to dissipate

every cloud, and that henceforward storm would disappear from the

horizon of his destiny and become mere myth, exist only in memory.

and these be some of the early result of the german lesson.



about this time a small but unpleasant adventure occur to poor Annie

which occasion she a severe fright, and render her nervous and

uncomfortable for many day afterwards. she have be on an expedition to

the cottage of a poor neighbour who be suffer from illness; and

as the sick woman live beyond a walk, Annie have go on horseback,

attend by an old coachman who have live in the family many year.

having accomplish her mission, she have ride about a quarter of

a mile on her return when she discover that she have leave she

handkerchief behind, and direct the servant to ride back and fetch

it, she proceed at a foot’s pace in a homeward direction. the road she

be follow wound round the base of a hill thickly cover with tree

and underwood, the spread branch of the oak meet across the

lane and make a species of twilight even at midday.



as Annie Grant be pass under one of the thick of these tree, a

tall, gaunt figure spring from behind its knot trunk and seize the

bridle of her pony. gaze in alarm at her assailant, Annie perceive

he to be a man of unusual stature; his feature be pale and

emaciate, and an unshorn, grizzly beard add to the ferocity of their

expression; his clothe, which be tear and soil, hang loosely about

he, while the long bony finger which clutch her bridle-rein, the

sink cheek, and hollow, glare eye-ball, give evidence that his

herculean proportion have be reduce almost to a skeleton leanness by

disease or want. Annie have, however, little time to make observation,

for, accost she with an oath, the ruffian demand her purse. draw

it forth, she hold it to he with a trembling hand. he seize it eagerly

and examine its content, his eye glitter as he observe the

sparkle of gold. hastily conceal it about his person, he next

demand her watch, which Annie, after a hopeless glance in the

direction from which she expect the appearance of the servant, also

relinquish. having secure his plunder the fellow pause, apparently

reflect whether by detain she long he could gain any further

advantage; as he do so the sound of a horse rapidly advance strike

his ear, and immediately afterwards a turn in the road enable he to

perceive the figure of a servant on horseback, the sunshine glance

from his bright livery button. the moment this object meet his view

he start, and shade his eye with his hand, gaze fixedly at the

approach horseman. having thus satisfy himself as to the man’s

identity, he exclaim with an oath, “it be the old bloodhound’s livery,

and the girl must be his daughter. oh, what a chance I have throw away!

yes,” he continue, turn fiercely upon poor Annie and threaten she

with his clench fist, “if I have guess you be the daughter of that

-------- old Grant, you should not have get off so easy, I promise you.”

 he pause as a new idea strike he, and his face assume an expression

of diabolical revenge; place his hand in his breast he draw forth a

pistol, cock it, and mutter, “there be time yet,” level it at

his trembling victim. with a faint scream Annie drop the rein, and

clasp her hand in an agony of fear, murmur a petition for mercy.

the ruffian stand for a moment irresolute; but, desperate as he

be, some touch of humanity yet linger in his breast, a soften

recollection come across he, and mutter, “I cann’t do it, she look

like poor jane,” he uncocke and replace the pistol.



at this moment the servant, having hear Annie’s scream, come up at a

gallop, and the robber, utter a fearful imprecation, spring back into

the wood and disappear among the tree.



it be some minute before Annie, who be on the verge of fainting, be

able to give a coherent account of the adventure which have befall

she. as soon, however, as she have in some degree recover from the

effect of her terror, she desire the servant to ride close beside she,

and urge her pony into a rapid canter, make the good of her way home.

here she find matter in a state of unusual bustle and confusion. the

General have receive information that hardy the poacher have break out

of H---------- gaol, effect his escape unperceive, and be

suppose to be conceal somewhere in the neighbourhood of Broadhurst.

accordingly he be marshal all the available male of his

establishment, preparatory to set out on an expedition to search

for, and if possible to apprehend the escape felon.



Great be his horror and indignation when he learn the danger to which

his daughter have be expose, and ascertain from the description

she give of her assailant that the man who have rob she, and even

threaten her life, be none other than the ruffian Hardy.



the preparation which he have already make he now consider

insufficient for ensure the success of the expedition; he accordingly

despatch a mount groom to procure the assistance of a couple of

policeman, and send for Lewis, beg he to lead a party to search

the country in one direction, while he proceed with a second division

of the household force in another. as the young tutor hear of the

alarm to which Annie have be subject, his cheek flush and his

compress lip quiver. he say little, however, but return to

his room, place a brace of small pistol in the breast of his coat,

attach spur to the heel of his boot, then mount a horse which

be in readiness for he, ride off. the tenant be rouse, the

gamekeeper summon, the policeman arrive. General Grant remain

absent till nearly ten o’clock at night, and his daughter become alarmed

to the last degree for his safety. at length he return; their search

have be unsuccessful, but Mr. Arundel and some of the man would remain

on the watch all night, and he would resume the pursuit next morning.



for three day and night Lewis never enter a house, and be scarcely

out of the saddle; the fourth day the police receive a report from

the authority at Liverpool, state that an individual in some degree

correspond to the description of Hardy have take his passage in a

vessel bind for the United States, and that the wind be favourable,

the ship have sail before they have be able to search she; and with

this unsatisfactory report the family at Broadhurst be force to

content themselves.









CHAPTER XLVI.--IS calculate to “murder sleep” for all nervous young

lady who READ it.



the incident relate in the last chapter produce a strange and

alarming effect upon Miss Livingstone; in fact it may be say to have

lay the foundation of a species of monomania which haunt she to the

day of her death. from this time forth she labour under the delusion

that a man train from his youth up to rob and murder his sleep

fellow-creature be secrete at one and the same moment under every bed

and behind all the window curtain in the house. a singular and alarming

property belong to this ambush ruffian be the extraordinary shadow

cast by his leg and foot. Miss Livingstone be perpetually scare by

discover it in the most unlikely place and position; indeed the

statistic of these shadowy phenomenon tend to show that it be this

villain’s ordinary custom to stand upon his rascally head. then the

noise he make be most strange and unearthly, and a habit he possess

of moan whenever the wind be high really exceed anything

with which human nature could be expect to put up. the trouble he

occasion everybody be inconceivable; for at least a month after

Annie’s adventure the butler almost live in Minerva’s bedroom, so

constantly be he summon to unearth this lurk traitor; and yet,

although Miss Livingstone be quite certain the monster be there, for

she have see the shadow of his boot, with the sol upwards, upon the

tester of the bed, by some dreadful fatality he always contrive to

evade the strict search. once Miss Livingstone think she _have_

get he, for, having summon assistance on the strength of hear he

snore, she actually enjoy the satisfaction of be swear at by he,

when she look under the bed and poke for he with a large umbrella;

but this time he turn out to be the cat. the servant became so

harass by these repeat alarum that at length the butler give _bona

fide_ warning, while the footman, when there be nobody to hear they,

vehemently protest they be not hire as thief-catcher, and that

Miss Livingstone have well set up a private policeman of her own, if

she choose to be so subject to house-breaker.



Lewis be not at all pleased with this adventure: in the first place,

it interrupt the german lesson, for poor Annie have be so seriously

frightened--not without cause--that it make she really ill, and for some

day she remain on a sofa in her own room. in the second place, Lewis

have be so deeply affect when he first hear of the danger to which

she have be expose, that for a moment a doubt cross his mind

whether such a degree of emotion be exactly consistent with that mild

imposition clepe platonic friendship. in the third place, he have use

his good endeavour to catch hardy once again, and have be thoroughly

and completely baffle. time, however, that wonder-work individual,

pass on, and by his assistance Annie’s nerve recover their tone,

and the german lesson be recommence; Miss Livingstone see few

vision of reversed leg, and confine her research after the

conceal one to a good peep under the bed night and morning. the

General make a great fuss about the whole affair, and severely

reprimand several individual for permit Hardy to escape who never

have it in their power to prevent his do so. having relieve his mind

by this judicious exercise of authority, he apply himself to other

pursuit, and speedily forget the whole transaction.



about two month after the occurrence of the robbery Lord Belle-field

write to announce his return, and General Grant go to London alone

in order to meet he. before his departure, Annie, whose dislike to the

interrupt engagement appear to increase rather than to diminish,

determined to make a great effort, and to acquaint her father with her

disinclination to the propose alliance, and to entreat he to take

no step which might lead to a renewal of the matrimonial project. the

General hear she attentively, and then observed--



“I perfectly understand and appreciate your feeling, my dear Annie;

they be such as, under the peculiar circumstance, become _my_

daughter. remember, my dear, that the matter be in wise and more

experienced hand than your; and rest assure that nothing shall be

do of which even your punctilious delicacy and true sense of honour

can disapprove.” then, see Annie be about to speak, he continue,

“any further discussion be not only unnecessary, but as the matter now

stand, would appear to imply a doubt of my capability of act for

you; which I should consider, to say the least, disrespectful. you will

oblige I by withdraw, my dear Annie.” thus say, he rise, and

open the door with all the frigid courtesy of the Grandisonian

school, usher she out. and so poor Annie’s attempt prove a signal

failure.



on the following morning the General leave Broadhurst, having give Annie

a very unnecessary caution against ride out with merely a servant, and

make it his especial request that Lewis and Walter should accompany she

by way of escort; a proceeding of which neither tutor nor pupil appear

to disapprove.



General Grant be absent for more than a fortnight; and as the

weather be unusually fine during the whole of the time, Annie and

her attendant ride out every day. oh, those ride! what delightful

expedition be they! by a tacit consent between Lewis and Annie, all

allusion to the future be avoid, in word or thought; they live in

the present--those love heart; they be together, and that suffice

they; and the tree appear greener, and the flower more brilliant,

and the sunshine brighter, than they have ever seem before; all be

happy as a fairy dream, and dream-like do it pass away.



a letter from the General announce his intended return be in Annie’s

hand, as, bend over a ponderous volume of crab character, she

await her german lesson. the window of the breakfast-room in which

she be seat open on to an ample lawn, intersperse with group of

shrub and gay flower-bed. in cross this lawn Walter have contrive

to intercept Lewis and inveigle he into a game at ball.



flush by the exercise, his eye sparkle with excitement, and his

dark curl hang in wild disorder about his brow, the young tutor

approach the window at which Annie be seat. conceal by the

heavy fold of the window curtain, the girl watch he unperceive:

involuntarily she contrast his frank and easy bearing, his free and

elastic step, and the smile, half proud, half playful, which part his

curved lip and sparkle in his flash eye, with the cold reserve

which usually characterise his demeanour, and for the first time she

become aware what a bright and noble nature have be obscure and warp

by the false position into which circumstance have combine to force

he. who could blame she, who rather would not love she the well, and

thank God that he have implant such beautiful instinct in every true

woman’s heart, if she feel that she should wish no fair destiny

than to devote her life to bring back the sunshine of his, and by she

affection restore to he the youth of soul which misfortune have wrest

from he!



little guess the thought that be pass through her mind, Lewis

advanced towards the window, exclaim, “Miss Grant, I have a petition

to urge--the day be so lovely it be quite wicked to remain indoor: can

I persuade you to use your influence with Miss Livingstone to allow

we to transfer the site of our german lesson to the bench under the

lime-tree? I will promise to arrange a most seductive seat for she in

the very shady corner.”



“my aunt have depart on a charitable mission,” be the reply; “she

receive a message to say that an unfortunate child whom she have be

doctor out of that dreadful medicine chest of hers be much bad, and

she have rush off armed with pill and powder.”



“to give it the _coup de grace_ I suppose,” interrupt Lewis.



Annie shake her head reprovingly, and continue, “in the excitement of

the occasion, she appear to have entirely forget our poor german

lesson.”



“in which case the decision as to place rest with you!” resume Lewis

eagerly; “the matter be therefore settle--you _will_ come.” the accent

upon the “_will_” be intend to be one of entreaty, but somehow the

tone in which it be utter partook largely of command, and Annie, as

she obey, say with a smile--



“or rather, I _must_ come--that be clearly your meaning, Mr. Arundel;

however, I see Walter and Faust be already _en position_, and I will

not set they an example of disobedience, so if you can find the book, I

will join you immediately.”



[illustration: 0338]



it be, as Lewis have declare, a lovely evening; the sky be of that

deep, clear blue which indicate a continuance of fine weather, a soft

breeze sigh through the blossom of the lime-tree beneath which they

sit. Faust lie at Annie’s foot, gaze up into her face as though he

love to look upon her beauty, which perhaps he do, for Faust be a

dog of taste, and particular in the selection of his favourite. Walter,

stretch at his length upon the turf, be idly turn over the

page of a volume of coloured print. Lewis open the work they be

translate; it be that lovely of historical tragedy, Schiller’s

“Piccolomini,” and Annie read of Max, the simple, the true, the

noble-hearted, and think that the world contain but one parallel

character, and that he be beside she. they read on beneath the summer

sky, and trace the working of Schiller’s master mind, forget all

sublunary thing in the absorbing interest of the story. the scene they

be peruse be that in which Max Piccolomini describe the chill

effect produce upon he when he for the first time behold Thekla

surround by the splendour of her father’s court, and say (I quote

Coleridge’s beautiful translation for the benefit of my _un-german_

reader, and in consideration of the shallowness of my own acquaintance

with the language of the Fatherland)--



               “now, once again, I have courage to look on you,



               to-day at noon I could not;



               the dazzle of the jewel that play’d round you



               hide the belovèd from I.



               this morning when I find you in the circle



               of all your kindre, in your father’s arm,



               Beheld myself an alien in this circle,



               oh! what an impulse feel I in that moment



               to fall upon his neck and call he father;



               but his stern eye o’erpower’d the swell passion,



               I dare not but be silent--and those brilliant



               that like a crown of star enwreath’d your brow,



               they scare I too--oh! wherefore, wherefore should he



               at the first meeting spread, as ’twere, the ban



               of excommunication round you?--wherefore



               dress up the angel for the sacrifice,



               and cast upon the light and joyous heart



               the mournful burden of _his_ station? fitly



               may love woo love, but such a splendour



               might none but monarchs venture to approach.”



as Lewis read this speech, the bright, happy look fade from his face,

and his voice grow deep and stern; there be in the whole scene a

strange likeness to his own position, which pain he in the extreme,

and bring back all his most bitter feeling. engross as be this

idea when once arouse, he could not but observe the unusual degree of

taste and energy which Annie, who appear carry away by the interest

of the drama, infuse into her reading, and the tone of her sweet

voice do ample justice to the friendly, confide tenderness with which

Thekla endeavour to console her lover. after her appeal to the Countess

Tertsky--



               “he’s not in spirit, wherefore be he not?



               he have quite another nature on the journey,



               so calm, so bright, so joyous eloquent”--



she turn to Max, saying--



               “it be my wish to see you always so,



               and never otherwise.”



Annie speak the last word so earnestly that Lewis involuntarily glance

at she, and their eye meet. it be one of those moment which occur

twice or thrice in a lifetime, when heart read heart, as an open book,

and sympathetic thought reveal itself unaided by that weak interpreter

the tongue. through weary year of sorrow and separation that look

be unforgotten by either of they; and when Annie bend her eye on the

ground with a slight blush, confess that the large amount of womanly

tenderness which she fain would show be not unmingled with a portion of

womanly love which she would as fain conceal, and Lewis dare not trust

himself to speak lest the burn thought which crowd on his brain

should force themselves an utterance, neither of they be sorry

to perceive the figure of Aunt Martha rustle crisply through the

stillness, as, burthen with bolus, Minerva appear before they, to

give a triumphant account of her victory over Tommy Crudle’s catarrhal

affection, of which ailment she promise Annie a reversion for her

imprudence in sit out of door without a bonnet.



when Lewis retire to his room that night he sit down to think over

in solitude the occurrence of the day. have he be deceive himself,

then? be his unhappy attachment still unsubdue--nay, have it not

strengthen? under the delusive garb of friendship, have not Annie’s

society become necessary to his happiness? again--and as this idea for

the first time occur to he, the strong man tremble like a child

from the violence of his emotion--have he not more than this to answer

for? selfishly engross by his own feeling, madly rely on his own

strength of will, which he now perceive he have but too good reason

to mistrust, he have never contemplate the effect his behaviour might

produce upon a warm-hearted and imaginative girl. Lewis be no coxcomb,

but he must have wilfully close his eye have he not read in Annie’s

manner that morning the fact that she be by no mean indifferent to

he. true, it might be only friendship on her part--the natural impulse

of a woman’s heart to pity and console one who she perceive to need

such love-kindness--and with this forlorn hope Lewis be fain to

content himself. then he strove to form wise resolution for the future:

he would avoid her society--the german lesson should be strictly

confine to business, and gradually discontinue; and even a vague

notion dimly present itself of a time--say a year thence--when Walter

might be entrust to other hand, and he should be able to extricate

himself from a situation so fraught with danger. and having thus

regard the matter by the light of principle and duty, feeling begin to

assert its claim, and he curse his bitter fortune, which force he

to avoid one whom he would have brave death itself to win. he sit

ponder these thing deep into the night; the sound of the clock over

the stable strike two at length arouse he from his reverie, and he

be about to undress, when a slight growl from Faust, who always sleep

on a mat in Lewis’s dressing-room, attract his attention, and as he

pause to listen, a low whistle, which seem to proceed from the shrub

under his window, catch his ear. close the door of the dressing-room

to prevent Faust from give any alarm, he walk lightly to the window,

which, accord to his usual custom, he leave open all night, and

silently hold back the curtain, look out. as he do so a window on

the ground floor be cautiously open and the whistle repeat. after

a moment’s reflection he become convinced that the room from which the

signal whistle have be reply to be occupy by the new butler,

who have replace the individual harass into the desperate step of

resign by Minerva’s incessant crusade against the under-the-bed one.

at the sound of the signal whistle the figure of four man appear

from the shrub, amongst which they have be hide, and noiselessly

approach the window. the candle which Lewis have bring upstairs with

he have burn out; and although his window be open, the curtain be

draw across it; he be therefore able, himself unperceive, to see and

hear all that be go on. as the burglar, for such he do not doubt

they be, draw near, the follow conversation be carry on in a low

whisper between their leader, a man of unusual stature, and Simmonds the

butler.



“you be late; the plate have be pack and ready for the last two

hour.”



“there be a light in the--------d tutor’s room till half-an-hour ago,”

 be the reply; “and we think he might hear we and give the alarm if we

do not wait till he be in bed.”



“it would not have much signify if he have when you be once in,”

 return Simmonds: “the groom don’t sleep in the house; the valet be

in London; so there’s only the tutor, the footman, and the idiot boy,

besides woman.”



“where be the old man?” inquire the other.



“not return,” be the answer.



a brutal curse be the rejoinder, and the robber continue, “the girl be

safe?”



“yes.”



“and the tutor?”



“yes. what do you want with they?”



“to knock out his --------d brain, and take she with we,” be the

alarming reply. simmond appear to remonstrate, for the robber reply

in a loud tone than he have yet used--



“I tell you, _yes!_ Old Grant shall know what it be to lose a daughter

as well as other people.”



Afraid lest the loudness of his voice should give the alarm, the other

exclaim in an anxious whisper--



“Hush! come in;” and one after the other the four man enter by the

open window.









CHAPTER XLVII.--CONTAINS a “midnight struggle,” garnish with a due

amount of BLOODSHED, and other NECESSARY HORRORS.



Lewis, having overhear the conversation detail in the precede

chapter, perceive himself to be place in a position alike dangerous

and difficult. in the spokesman and leader of the party he have

recognise (as the reader have probably also do) his old antagonist,

hardy the poacher. the matter then stand thus: four ruffian (one of

whom, burn with the desire of revenge for wrong real and suppose,

possess strength and resolution equal to his animosity) be already

in possession of the low part of the house, their avow object be

robbery, murder, and abduction; the butler, faithless to his trust, be

clearly an accomplice; Hardy, fight as it be with a halter round

his neck, be not likely to stick at trifle, and Lewis foresaw that the

conflict, once begin, would be for life or death, and on its successful

issue depend Annie’s rescue from a fate bad than death. his only

ally be the footman; and whether this lad’s courage would desert he

when he discover the odd against which he have to contend be a point

more than doubtful. however, there be no time to deliberate; Lewis feel

that he must act, and summon all the energy of his nature to meet

so fearful an emergency, he prepare to sell his life as dearly as

possible. on attempt to unlock his pistol case the key turn with

difficulty, and it be not without some trouble and delay that he be

enable to open it. as he do so, it occur to he that his pistol,

which he keep load, might have be tamper with. it be fortunate

that he think of ascertain this, for on insert the ramrod

he find the bullet have be withdraw from both barrel. carefully

reload they, he place the pistol in a breast-pocket ready for use,

and take down from a nail on which it hang a cavalry sabre which have

belong to Captain Arundel, he unsheathe it, and grasp it firmly

with his right hand, he turn to leave the room, with the design of

arouse the footman. as he do so a faint tap be hear, and on open

the door the figure of Annie Grant, pale and trembling, wrap in

a dressing-gown and shawl, appear before he, while her French

_soubrette_, in an agony of fear, be lean against the wall listen

(with eye that appear ready to start out of her head with fright)

for every sound below. as Lewis advanced Annie perceive the sabre, and

pointing towards it, she exclaim in an agitated whisper--



“oh! you have hear they, then! what will become of we?”



Lewis take her trembling hand in his.



“calm yourself,” he say in the same low tone; “I will defend you, and

if need be, die for you.”



his word, speak slowly and earnestly, appear to act like a charm

upon she. she become at once compose, and look up in his face with

an expression of childlike trust, inquired--



“and what shall I do?”



“go back to your apartment and pray for my success; God be merciful, and

will not turn a deaf ear to such angel pleading,” be the solemn reply.



Annie again gaze earnestly at he, and read in the stern resolution

of his feature the imminence of their danger, be turn away with a

sickening feeling of despair at her heart, when Lewis again address

she.



“I be go to awaken the man-servant,” he say; “the butler be an

accomplice of these scoundrel, and have admit they. they cannot,

however, molest you without ascend the stair, and as they do that I

shall encounter they; the result be in the hand of God.”



he be about to leave she, but there be a speechless misery in her face

as she gaze upon he which he could not resist. in an instant he be by

her side.



“Dear Annie,” he say, and his deep tone falter from the intensity

of his emotion--_it be the first time he have ever call she by her

Christian name_--“Dear Annie, do not look at I thus sorrowfully; it be

true we be in peril, but I have ere now brave great danger than this

successfully, and--should I fall, life have few charm for I--to die for

you----!”



at this moment the sound of a man’s voice in anger be hear from the

low part of the house, and start forward with a scarcely suppress

cry of terror, the french girl seize Lewis’s arm, while, point in

the direction of the footman’s room, she exclaimed--



“_Allez, allez, cherchez vite du secour, nous allon être assassinés

tous_.”



Lewis place his finger on his lip in token of silence, and listen a

moment as the voice below be again audible and then die away.



“they be quarrel over their booty,” he say, “and be too well

occupy to think of we at present.”



he then lead Annie to the door of her room, urge she to fasten it on the

inside, and press her hand warmly, leave she. after one or two

futile attempt he discover the man-servant’s apartment; the door

be unfastened, and he push it open, when the loud, regular breathing

which meet his ear prove that the person of whom he be in search be

as yet undisturbed. approach the bed, Lewis pause for a moment, and

shade the light with his hand, gaze upon the face of the sleeper. he

be scarcely beyond the age of boyhood, and his feature present more

delicacy of form than be usually to be meet with in the class to which

he belong. he be sleep as quietly as a child; while Lewis watch

he, he murmur some inarticulate sound, and a smile play about his

mouth. as Lewis stoop to wake he, he could not but mentally contrast

the calm sleep from which he be arouse he with the probable scene of

violence and danger in which he would so soon be engage. it be no

time for such reflection, however, and lay his hand on the lad’s

shoulder, he said--



“Robert, you be want, rouse up!”



startle by the apparition of a tall figure bend over he, the young

man spring up, exclaiming--



“what’s the matter? who be it?” then recognise Lewis, he continue,

“Mr. Arundel! be anybody ill, sir?”



“hush!” be the reply; “get up and put on your clothe as quickly as

possible; there be thief in the house. I will wait at the top of the

stair till you join I; but make no noise, or you may bring they upon

we before we be prepared for they.”



so say, he quit the room. in less time than he have imagine it

possible, the young servant join he.



“have you rouse Mr. Simmonds?” be his first query.



“the butler have prove unworthy of the trust repose in he,” return

Lewis; “he have admit these man into the house, and they be now in

his pantry, prepare to carry off the plate.”



as he speak his companion’s colour rise, and with flash eye he

exclaim, “let we go down and prevent they; there’s plate worth £500

under his care.”



Lewis hold the lamp so that it shed its light upon the young man’s face

and figure. he be a tall, well-grow youth, and his broad shoulder and

muscular arm give promise of strength; his eye be keen and bright,

and an expression of honest indignation impart firmness to his mouth.

Lewis feel that he might be rely on, and determine to trust he

accordingly.



“they have bad design than merely steal the plate,” he say; “they

intend to carry off Miss Grant, and murder I. Chance enable I to

overhear their plan; I mean, therefore, to wait at the top of the stair

and use _any_ mean to prevent their ascend they: will you stand by

I?”



“ay, that I will; a man can but die once,” be the spirited reply.



Lewis grasp his hand and shake it warmly.



“you be a brave fellow,” he say, “and if we succeed in beat off

these scoundrel, it shall not be my fault if your fortune be not make.

there be a carabine hang in the General’s bedroom, be there not?”



receive an answer in the affirmative, Lewis continue, “fetch it,

then, and the sword with it, if you think you can use it.”



as Robert depart on this mission, Lewis, surprised at the delay on the

part of Hardy and his associate, glide lightly down the staircase to

reconnoitre their proceeding. the low part of the house be of course

in total darkness; but as he approach the butler’s pantry a bright

stream of light issue from a crack in the door, while the tramp of

nail shoe on the stone floor inside, together with an occasional

muttered word or oath from one of the party, prove that they be

busily engage in some toilsome occupation, which Lewis rightly

conjecture to be convey the plate to a cart outside. return as

cautiously as he have advance, Lewis rejoin his companion, whom he

find wait for he at the top of the stair, carabine in hand. having

ascertain that the charge have be remove from this also, he reload

it with some of the slug intend for his pistol, and place the lamp

so that it cast its light down the staircase, leave the spot where

they stand in shade, he hand one pistol to Robert, reserve the other

for his own use in any emergency which might occur; and thus prepare

they await the approach of the robber. their patience be not in

this instance destine to be severely tax, for scarcely have they take

their station when the creaking of a door cautiously open, and the

tread of muffle footstep announce that the crisis be at hand; and in

another moment hardy and his associate be see stealthily advance

towards the foot of the stair. as they perceive the light of Lewis’s

lamp they pause, and a whisper consultation take place. at this

moment the ray fall strongly upon the upper part of the poacher’s

figure, and Lewis, level his carabine, could have shoot he through

the heart. it be a strong temptation. hardy once dead, Lewis have little

fear of be able to overcome or intimidate the other. he know that it

be life for life, and that by all law, human and divine, the act

would be a justifiable one; but he could not bring himself to slay

a fellow-creature in cold blood. besides, although since his unmanly

attack on Annie, Lewis have feel in the high degree irritate against

the poacher, he compassionate he for the loss of his daughter, and

could not entirely divest himself of a specie of admiration for his

strength and daring: so, though he still hold the carabine direct

towards the group, he do not pull the trigger; and thus, by a strange

turn of fate, Lewis spare Hardy’s life, as Hardy have on a former

occasion spare his, when the motion of a finger would have send he to

his long account. at this moment the butler join the party, and Lewis

catch the word, “they have fire-arm!”



“never fear,” be the reply in the tone of Simmonds’ voice, “they may

bark, but they willn’t bite; I’ve take care of that.”



“come on, then,” exclaim hardy impetuously; “let we rush at they

together and overpower they;” and grasp a bludgeon with one hand,

while in the other he hold a cocked pistol, he dash upstairs follow

by his accomplice. Lewis wait till they have pass a turn in the

staircase, and then aim low, in order if possible to stop their

advance without destroy life, he fire. simmond, who be one of the

foremost, immediately fall, and lose his balance, roll down several

step; one of the other pause in his career, and from his limping gait

be evidently wound; but hardy and two more continue their course

uninjured. the smoke of the discharge for a moment conceal Lewis’s

figure; as it clear away, Hardy level his pistol at he and fire.

the bullet whistle by Lewis’s ear, and pass within an inch of his

right temple, lodge in the wall behind he; while, follow up his

ineffectual shot, the robber rush upon he. Lewis, however, have too

keen a recollection of his antagonist’s matchless strength to risk the

chance of allow he to close with he, and spring back, he strike

he, quick as lightning, two blow with the sabre--the first on his arm,

which he raise to protect his head, the second and most severe one on

the shoulder near the neck: this last blow stagger he, and reel

dizzily, he grasp the banister for support, the blood trickle from

the wound in his shoulder. in the meantime the two other, one of they

having fell the young footman to the ground by a back-handed stroke

with a bludgeon, attack Lewis simultaneously. having parry one or

two blow with his sabre, Lewis make a desperate cut at the head of

the man with the bludgeon. the fellow raise his staff to ward off the

stroke, and the blow fall upon the oak sapling, which it sever like a

reed; but unfortunately the shock be too great, and the sword snap

near the hilt. see that he be thus leave defenceless, and

might probably be overpower, as both his assailant be strong,

square-build fellow, Lewis have no resource but to draw his pistol; and,

as before, endeavour to aim so as to disable without destroy life,

he fire, and the man near to he fall. his comrade immediately throw

himself upon the young tutor, and a fierce struggle ensue. in point of

strength the combatant be very equally match; but, fortunately

for the result, Lewis be the most active, and by a sudden wrench

disengage himself from his antagonist’s grasp, he strike he a

tremendous blow with his clench fist on the side of the head, which

send he down with the force of a battering-ram. as he do so a giant

arm be throw round his waist, a knife gleam at his throat, and in

a hoarse, break voice, the savage ferocity of which have something

appal in its tone, Hardy exclaimed--



“I’ve owe you something a long time, young feller; and now I’ve get a

chance, I’m go to pay you.”



both his hand be occupy, he, with the fury of some beast of prey,

seize Lewis’s hair with his tooth, and endeavour to draw his head

back in order to cut his throat; but, by dint of struggle, Lewis have

contrive to get his right arm free, and grasp the wrist of the hand

which hold the weapon, he be enable, as long as his strength might

hold out, to prevent the ruffian from execute his murderous purpose.

Hardy make one or two effort to shake off the grasp which thus fetter

he, but his muscular power be so much impair by the sabre cut on the

arm that he be unable to accomplish his design. accordingly, trust

to his great strength, and think that Lewis would become exhausted by

his attempt to free himself, Hardy determine to wait rather than run

the risk of afford his victim a chance of escape by remove the arm

which encircle he. while affair be in this position, Robert,

having recover the stunning effect of the blow which have fell he,

regain his foot, and be advance to Lewis’s assistance when the

robber who have be slightly wound in the leg as he be ascend

the stair, and have since remain a passive spectator of the struggle,

interpose, and rousing, through the medium of a kick in the rib, the

fellow whom Lewis have knock down, close with the young servant, and

attempt to wrench the pistol (which go off in the scuffle without

injure any one) from his grasp, while his accomplice, gather

himself slowly from the floor, prepare to assist he. in the meantime

the struggle between Lewis and Hardy appear likely to terminate in

favour of the young tutor, for the exertion make by the poacher to

retain his captive cause the blood to flow rapidly from his wound, and

a sensation of faintness steal over he which threaten momentarily

to incapacitate he. as he become aware of this fact his fury and

disappointment know no bound; and collect his power for one final

effort, he release Lewis’s waist, and transfer his grasp to his

coat collar, suddenly fling his whole weight upon he and bear he

heavily to the ground; then raise himself and plant his knee on

Lewis’s chest, he stretch out his hand to pick up the knife which

he have drop in this last attack. have he make the attempt one minute

soon, it would have be successful, and Lewis would indeed have lay

down his life for she he love; but his time be not yet come. as the

poacher leant over to reach the knife, a dizzy faintness overpower

he, his brain reel; a slight effort on Lewis’s part be sufficient

to dislodge he, and utter a hollow groan, he roll over on his back

and lie motionless, his deep, laboured breathing alone testify

that he be still alive. hastily spring from the ground, Lewis,

on regain his foot, turn to assist his companion, who be still

manfully battle with his two assailant: as he do so the sound of

foot become audible, and the gardener and three of the other outdoor

servant, arouse by the report of fire-arm, rush in, having effect

their entrance by the open window of the pantry. their arrival end

the affair. the burglar who be uninjured, find the door of Lewis’s

bedroom open, take refuge there, leap from the window, alight on

some shrub, which break his fall, and the darkness favour he,

effect his escape. the other four, who be all wound more or less

seriously, be secure.



a surgeon be immediately send for: he examine Hardy (who remain in

a state of unconsciousness) first. he pronounce the cut in the arm

of little consequence, but the wound in the neck have divide several

important vessel, and he consider it highly dangerous. the burglar

at whom Lewis have discharge his pistol be severely wound in the hip,

but the surgeon do not apprehend any serious consequence. simmond,

the butler, prove to have be hit in the knee by a slug from the

carabine, an injury which would probably lame he for life. the

remain member of the gang have come off more easily, a shot having

pass through the fleshy part of the leg; Robert, the servant,

display a broken head; and Lewis, besides be severely bruise, have

in the last struggle with Hardy receive a wound in the left wrist from

the point of the ruffian’s knife. as soon as, by the application

of proper restorative, Hardy became sufficiently recover to bear

removal, a carriage be send for, and the capture burglar be

convey to the near town; the two most severely injure be take

to the hospital, and the other pair securely lodge in the county gaol.



on Annie’s expression of gratitude to her preserver, or on the

feeling with which Lewis hear her lip pronounce his praise, we will

not dwell, neither will we expatiate on the view Miss Livingstone (who

appear in a tremendous nightcap of cast-iron white-wash, and a

dressing-gown of Portland stone) be pleased to take of the affair, in

which she recognise a vindication of the reality of the individual who

be always under the bed _and_ behind the curtain, who for the future

she declare to have be Hardy, profess herself able to swear to the

expression of his boot in any court of justice throughout the United

Kingdom.









CHAPTER XLVIII.--WHEREIN the reader diverges into a new BRANCH of “THE

RAILROAD of life” in a THIRD-CLASS CARRIAGE.



Lewis, bruise and weary after his skirmish with the housebreaker,

fling himself on a sofa in his dressing-room, to try if he could obtain

a few hour’ sleep ere fresh care and duty should devolve upon he;

but sleep demand a calm frame of mind, and in his spirit there be no

peace. one think haunt he--in his brief and agitate interview

with Annie, have he betray himself? sometimes, as he recall the word

he have speak, and the feeling which have as it be force they from

he, he feel that he must have do so; and then he regret that

Hardy’s bullet have fly wide of its mark, and wish that he be lie

there a senseless corpse rather than a live man endow with power

to feel, and therefore to suffer. then he bethink he how alarmed and

confuse Annie have appear, and he conceive that she might have be

too thoroughly preoccupied and self-engross to have mark his word,

or to have attribute to they any meaning save friendly interest. one

thing be only too clear: of whatever nature might be Annie’s feeling

towards he, his affection for she be love--deep, fervent, earnest

love--a passion that he could neither banish nor control. how then

should he act? flight have now become the idea that most readily occur

to he: again, the possibility of leave Walter present itself to

his mind, and this time not as a mere remote contingency, but as a step

which he might at any moment be call upon to take, if he could not

recover his selfcontrol so entirely as to endure Annie’s presence; nay,

to receive mark of her gratitude and esteem, or even, on occasion,

to share her confidence, without betray his feeling. then in his

self-tormenting he catch at the expression which he have half think,

half utter, to “_endure_” her presence--to endure that which he

idolise, the presence of one for whom he would sacrifice friend,

family, the love of adventure, his ambitious hope, nay, as he have but

now prove, life itself. a wild idea cross his mind: if love be thus

all-powerful with he, a strong-minded, determined man, might it not be

equally so with she, a young, impulsive girl, whose very nature be an

embodiment of tenderness; might she not secretly pine to sacrifice rank,

station, rich, for the sake of love and he? Sacrifice--ay, rather

rejoice to cast off such trammel! should he strive to ascertain this?

should he tell she how he love she with a passion that be undermine

the secret spring of his very existence, and implore she to fly with

he to some fair western land, where the false distinction of society

be undreame of, and the brave, true-hearted man be lord, not of his

servile fellow, but of the creation which God have destine he to rule?

the picture, see by the false glare of his heated imagination, appear

a bright one, the light stand out boldly, and the shadow remain

unheeded till the first gleam of return reason bring they

prominently forward, and he shudder to think that he could have

entertain for a moment a project so completely at variance with every

principle of honour and of duty. thus feverish alike in mind and body,

he toss restlessly on his couch, till at length, thoroughly exhaust,

he fall into a deep sleep, and dream bright dream of happy love, to

make the stern reality appear yet dark and more drear on wake.



on his return to Broadhirst, General Grant express his most

unqualified admiration at the gallant defence of his house, property,

and daughter (we quote his own “table of precedence”) by Lewis and the

man-servant. on the former he bestow a sword (present to he in

bygone day by some indian potentate) to replace the weapon break in

the struggle, together with a handsomely-bind copy of the “Wellington

Despatches”; the latter he reward by promotion to the post of butler,

_vice_ Simmonds (in a fair way to be) transport, together with a

douceur of twenty pound; which piece of good fortune so elated the

youthful Robert that he publicly declare he should like to have his

head break every night, and wish the house might be rob regularly

twice a week till further order. the wounded man recover rapidly,

with the exception of Hardy, whose case assume a very alarming

character: owe to the state of his constitution, impair by a course

of intemperance, to which, since his escape from prison, he have give

himself over, erysipelas supervene, and in a few day his life

be despair of. on receive this intelligence Lewis ride over to

H----------, and call at the hospital, request to be allow to see

the man whose life he have be the involuntary instrument of shortening.

the permission be readily accord, and he be conduct along several

passage to the room, or rather cell, for it be little else, in which,

for the purpose of security as well as to separate he from the other

inmate of the establishment, the burglar have be place. as soon

as Lewis have enter the door be close and fasten on the outside.

noiselessly approach the truckle bed on which Hardy lay, the young

tutor pause as his glance fall upon the prostrate figure of his

former antagonist. stretch at full length upon the couch, his arm and

shoulder swathe in bandage, and his muscular throat and broad, hairy

chest partially uncover, he look even more gigantic than when in

an erect posture: his face be pale as death, and an unnatural darkness

beneath the skin betoken to any one accustom to such appearance the

speedy approach of the destroyer; while a small hectic spot of colour

on the centre of each cheek give evidence of the inward fever which be

consume he. when Lewis approach the bed his eye be closed, and

his deep breathing at first lead to the belief that he be asleep; that

this be not the case, however, soon become apparent. open his

eye, he accidentally encounter those of Lewis fix upon he with an

expression of mingled pity and remorse: as their glance meet hardy give

a start of surprise, and gaze at he with a scowl which prove that his

feeling of animosity against Lewis be still unabated; while a puzzle

look evince that his mental power be so much weaken that he

doubt whether the figure he beheld be real or a creation of his

morbid fancy. advance to the bedside, Lewis break the silence by

inquire whether he suffer much pain. as he begin to speak, the

confused look disappear from the sick man’s countenance, and glare

at he with an expression of impotent rage, he exclaim in a low,

hoarse voice--



“so you’re come to look upon your handiwork, be you? I hope you like

it!”



“I be come to tell you that I be sorry the blow I strike you in

self-defence should have produce such disastrous consequence, and to

ask your forgiveness, in case the mean employ for your restoration to

health should prove ineffectual,” reply Lewis.



“restore my health!” repeat Hardy bitterly. “do you mean that you

expect these doctor can cure I? do you think these wound, that burn

like hell-fire, can be heal by their plaster and bandage? I tell you

no! you have do your work effectually this time, and I be a die man.

you want I to forgive you, do you? if my curse could wither you where

you stand, I would and _do_ curse you! if priest’ tale be true, and

there be a heaven and a hell, and by forgive you I could reach heaven,

I still would curse you, in the hope that by so do I might drag you

down to hell with I.”



the vehemence with which he utter this malediction completely

exhausted he, and fall back on the pillow he lie with closed eye,

his laboured breathing afford the only proof that he be still alive.

throw himself upon a chair by the bedside, Lewis sat wrap in

painful thought. the reflection that hatred to he for act which

circumstance have force he to commit might cause the unhappy be

before he to die impenitent, and that he might thus be instrumental to

the destruction both ot his body and soul, be distress to he in the

extreme; and yet how to bring he to a well frame of mind be not easy

to decide. at length, follow out his own train of thought, he ask

abruptly--



“Hardy, why do you hate I so bitterly?”



thus accost, the poacher unclose his eye, and fix they with a

pierce glance upon the face of his questioner, as though he would read

his very soul. apparently disappoint in his object, for Lewis meet his

gaze with the calm self-possession of conscious rectitude, he answer

surlily--



“why do you come here to torment I with foolish question? it be enough

that I hate you with just cause--and you know that it be so.

I hate you now, I shall hate you die, and I shall hate you after

death, if there be a hereafter. now go. if by stay here you think

to persuade or entrap I into say I forgive you, you only waste your

time.”



“listen to I, Hardy,” return Lewis, speak calmly and impressively.

“you be, as you truly say, a die man. in this life we shall probably

never meet again. the reality of a future life you appear to doubt: I

believe in it; and I believe that your condition there may be affect

by your die with such feeling in your heart as you have now

express. it be therefore worth while to discuss this matter, and see

whether you have such just cause to hate I as you imagine.”



as Hardy make no reply, Lewis continue: “it be true that on a former

occasion I secure your capture when perhaps I be step beyond my

regular path of duty to do so; but in this last affair I merely act

in self-defence, as I overheard from my open window your scheme for my

destruction. you discharge a pistol at I ere I attack you: have the

ball go half an inch more to the right I should have be a dead

man. whatever may be your fault, you be brave; and that quality alone

should prevent your bearing malice against one who meet you in fair, open

fight. it be a game for life and death, and it be unjust to hate I for

win it.”



“boy, you will madden I,” exclaim hardy passionately, raise himself

on his elbow as he speak, though the pain the action cause he force

a groan from his compress lip. “do you suppose I care for your paltry

blow? if they have not finish I, brandy or my own hand would soon

have do so; for life have long be a curse to I, and have become

unbearable since--may the torment I shall soon endure, if there be a

hell, fall upon you for it!--since you and the title scoundrel, your

accomplice, steal my daughter from I.”



“I!” exclaim Lewis in astonishment. “do you imagine I to have have any

share in that wickedness? why, man, I never see your daughter save on

two occasion; and on the second of these I warn she--unfortunately

without effect--against the design of the villain who betray she.”



as he speak hardy gaze eagerly at he, and when he cease, exclaimed--



“tell I when and where be it that you do this?”



“it be on the morning after the electioneering ball at Broadhurst. I

be shoot with the gamekeeper--meet your daughter by accident in the

grass field by the larch plantation--and witness she parting with

Lord Bellefield, I take the opportunity of tell she his true name and

character, and warn she against his probable design. but, unluckily,

she have observe a disagreement between we on the previous evening,

and suppose I to be actuate by malicious motive, discredit my

assertion.”



“you be not deceive I?” question hardy eagerly. “you could not,

dare not, do so now!”



“you do not know I, or you would not doubt my word. I have speak the

simple truth,” return Lewis coldly.



“here!” continue Hardy, produce from beneath the pillow a small Bible

which the chaplain have leave with he: “you tell I you believe in this

book. will you swear upon it that you be not try to deceive I?”



Lewis raise the book reverently to his lip, and kiss it, take the

require oath. Hardy watch he with a scrutinise gaze, and when he

have conclude, hold out his hand, saying--



“I have wrong you deeply, Mr. Arundel, and must ask--what! never

think again to ask at the hand of man--your forgiveness. I have seek

your life, sir, as the wild beast seek his prey; and chance, on

one occasion, and your own courage and address on other, have alone

preserve it.”



he then go on to relate how, his suspicion having be excite by

hint from the neighbour, he have learn that his daughter be in the

habit of meet some gentleman by stealth. how he watch for this

person constantly, without success, till the day after the great party

at Broadhurst, when, lie conceal in the larch plantation, he

have be attract by the sound of voice, and creep beneath the

underwood, have witness, though not near enough to overhear what

pass, the interview between Lewis and his daughter, when he naturally

conclude the young tutor to be the individual against whom he have be

caution. he then go on to relate that the opportune arrival of the

gamekeeper have alone prevent he from shoot the suppose libertine,

but that he have determine on his destruction, and that his subsequent

capture by Lewis and the General have alone hinder he from execute

his design. it be not till after his escape from H--------

gaol that he first hear Lord Bellefield’s name couple with that of his

daughter, which information complicate the affair; but still feel

convince that Lewis be guilty, either as principal or accessory, he

join in the scheme for rob Broadhurst, in order to be revenge on

the young tutor, as well as on General Grant, against whom he have

long nourished feeling of animosity, on account of his poaching

persecution.



his penitence for the wrong he have do he by his unjust suspicion

be so sincere and spontaneous, that Lewis imagine he recognise, amid

the ruin of a naturally generous disposition, that “seed of the soul”

 which remain in almost every nature, however the rank growth of evil

passion uncontrolle may have check its development. take advantage

of an expression which Hardy use, that “he thank God he have not

add to his other sin the murder of one who have seek to befriend his

child,” his companion observed--



“you say you thank God for preserve you from an additional crime:

now, do not the fact of your involuntarily make use of that form of

speech tend to convince you that the belief in a God and a future state

be natural to the mind of man?”



Hardy seem strike by the force of this remark, and Lewis, pursue

the subject, have the satisfaction of perceive that he have excite the

wound man’s interest, and ere he quit he he obtain his promise

to listen to the exhortation of the chaplain, whose advance he have

hitherto angrily repulse. please with the result of his visit, Lewis

on his way home call upon the clergyman who fulfil the duty of

chaplain to the hospital, and mention to he Hardy’s improve frame

of mind, beg he to see he again as soon as possible, to which

request the chaplain willingly accede.



three day after this interview Lewis receive a note from this

gentleman thank he for his hint, and inform he that its result

have be as satisfactory as in such a case be possible. hardy appear

sincerely penitent, willing to embrace and anxious to profit by the

truth of religion, as far as his weakened faculty enable he to

apprehend they. he add that he be sink fast, and have express

the great desire to see Lewis again before he die, as he have

some request to make to he. on the receipt of this information Lewis

immediately set out for H--------.



a great alteration have take place in Hardy’s appearance in those three

day. his cheek have become still more hollow, the unnatural brightness

of his eye be replace by a dull, leaden look, and the hectic colour

have fade to the pale, ashy hue of approach dissolution, whilst the

hoarse, deep tone of his voice be reduce almost to a whisper through

weakness. but the most remarkable change be in the expression of his

feature; the sullen scowl, which betoken a spirit at war alike with

itself and other, have give place to a look of calm resignation; there

be indeed trace of bodily pain and mental anguish about the mouth,

but the upper part of the face be in complete repose. Lewis gaze upon

he with deep interest, and the idea suggest itself that thus might

have appear the demoniac when the word of power have go forth, “hold

thy peace, and come out of he.” nor be the comparison inapt, for if

ever the mind of man be possess by an evil spirit, that of Hardy have

be so by the demon of revenge. as the die man perceive his approach

his feature light up.



“I know you would come, Mr. Arundel,” he say. “I feel that! should not

die without see you again.”



“do you suffer much pain now, Hardy?” inquire Lewis kindly.



“Scarcely any since six o’clock this morning, sir,” be the reply; “but

I know what that mean--that’s mortification come on. I’ve see man

die from sabre wound before now. I be a soldier once--at least I be

farri to a troop of cavalry, which be much the same thing; but this

be not what I want to say to you.” he pause from exhaustion, and

point to a glass contain some strengthen cordial. Lewis hold

it to his parched lip; having drink a portion of it, he appear

considerably revive.



“I be go fast,” he resume, “and must not waste the minute that

remain. you have treat I with kindness, sir--one of the few who have

ever do so; you be a bold foe and a warm-hearted friend, and that be

a character I understand and can trust. moreover, you tell I you show

poor Jane” (as he mention his daughter’s name tear stand in his eye

and his breath come short and fast) “her danger, and strove to warn she

against the villain who have wrong she, and this show you be a good

man; therefore I be go to ask you to do I a favour. when I be dead,

I want you to find out Jane and tell she whatever you may think well to

induce she to leave this man. and when she hear that I’m dead, if she

seem to feel it very deep and take on about it--which likely enough she

will, for she do care for I once--you may tell she that I forgive she

before I die. I never think to do so, for she have finish what her

mother begin; between they they’ve first make I the devil I have be,

and then--break my heart.” he pause, and when he have sufficiently

recover breath, continue, “when I marry her mother, five-and-twenty

year ago, I be a different man from whatever you’ve know I. I’d be

bring up to my father’s trade of a blacksmith, and work steadily at

it till I be able to lay by a fair sum of money, besides keep the

old man as long as he be alive. however, in the village where we live

be a farmer, well-to-do in the world, and his daughter be far the

prettiest girl in those part; she’d have a good education, and give

herself air like a lady, and look down upon a rough young fellow like

I; but I bear it patiently, for I love she, and determine I’d never

marry anybody but she. for a long time she would not look at I, but I

persevere; any man that come a-court she I pick a quarrel with and

thrash. I find many way of make myself handy to the old man, she

father, and somehow she get use to I like, and grow less scornful; and

just then a sister of my father’s, who have be housekeeper at

Broadhurst, die and leave I £300, and I’d save about £200 more, and

the old man want help to manage his farm. and the long and short of

the matter be I married Harriet Wylde, take a farm next her father’s,

and give up blacksmithing.



“for four year I be as happy as man could be; everything seem to

prosper with I. my wife have one child, a girl; a proud man be I when

she be first place in my arm, but have I know what be to be her fate

I would have smother she in her cradle! there be a young gentleman

live near we--his father be a rich baronet--I have be accustom to

break in horse for the son, and when I take the farm we use to shoot

together. he be a frank, generous-hearted man, and treat I like a

friend and equal. on our shooting expedition he would often come and

lunch at my house; on one occasion he bring his young brother with

he. this young fellow have just return from Italy, and bring foreign

manner and foreign vice with he. my wife be still very good-look,

like poor Jane, but handsomer; and this heartless villain covet her

beauty. I know not what art he use; I suspect nothing, see nothing,

but one evening on my return my home be desolate. I obtain trace

of the fugitive--he have take she to a seaport town in the south of

England, mean to embark for France--I follow they, and in the open

street I meet he; the bystander interfere between we, or I should have

slay he where he stand. he be take to an inn, where he keep his bed

for some week from the effect of the punishment I have administer to

he. I be drag off to prison; the law which suffer he to rob I

of she whom I prize more dearly than house and good punish I for

chastise the scoundrel with six month’ imprisonment. I consort with

thief, poacher, and other refuse of society; and in my madness to

obtain revenge upon the class which have injure I, I listen to their

specious argument till I become the curse to myself and other which

you, sir, have know I. well, society send I to school, and society

have have the benefit of the lesson that be teach I. I come out of

gaol a bad and well-nigh a desperate man, to learn that my wife have

return to her father’s house and die, give birth to a boy. in my

anger I refuse to acknowledge the child, but the old man take care of

it. Time pass on: the elder of the two brother quarrel with his

father and die abroad, the young one marry; but God visit he for

his sin. his wife see by accident in an old newspaper an account of my

trial for the assault; the shock bring on a premature confinement;

she also die in childbirth, and the child remain an idiot. yes! you

start, but you have guess rightly--the boy to whom you be tutor be

the son of the man who wrong I. the way of God be very wonderful:

have the boy possess his proper sense you might never have come here,

and I might not now be lie on my death-bed.”



again Hardy break off from weakness, and again Lewis administer the

cordial to he and wipe the cold dew from his brow.



“little more remain to tell,” he add after a few minute’ pause; “and

’tis well that it be so, for death come on apace. I do not fear to

die; I have long wish myself dead, life be such deep misery, yet

now I should be glad to live, that I might undo some of the evil I have

cause. since I see you last I have feel more like my former self than I

have ever do from the time my wife leave I. poor Harriet! do you think

we shall meet in the world of spirit, Mr. Arundel?”



“these be thing God alone know,” reply Lewis gravely. “he have not

see fit to reveal to live man the secret of the grave!” after a

short silence, in which Hardy appear to be collect strength to

finish his relation, he continued--



“after my release from the prison I take to drink to banish

reflection. drinking be a vice which bring all other in its train. I

soon fall into bad company, become involved in debt; and at last, in a

drunken fit, enlist in the----th dragoon, my height attract the

notice of a recruiting party from that regiment. I serve ten year, at

the end of which time my wife’s father die and leave his little property

between the two child, with the exception of a sum to purchase my

discharge if I choose to come and take care of they. the confinement and

regularity of a soldier’s life do not suit I, and I avail myself

of the opportunity thus offer, return home, and live on a certain

income set apart for the maintenance and education of the child. this

be a fresh chance for I, and have I conduct myself properly I might

have yet know some peaceful year; but a craving for excitement

haunt I. I seek out some of my old companion, join a Chartist

association, take to habit of poach--and this have be the end of

it.”



“what become of the boy who be leave to your care?” inquire Lewis.

Hardy utter a low groan.



“that be another sin I have to answer for,” he say. “I never like the

child--I doubt whether it be mine, and the sight of it recall the

memory of my wrong; accordingly, I treat the boy harshly, and

he repay I by sullen disobedience; and yet there should have be

sympathy between we. he be brave even to rashness, and copy my vice

with an aptitude which prove his power of acquire well thing. by

the time he be thirteen he could set a snare, hit a bird on the wing,

thrash any boy of his own weight, and alas! drink, game, and swear as

well as I could myself. one night I have be drink he anger I, and

in my rage I strike he. for a moment he look as if he would return

the blow; but the folly of such an attempt seem to occur to he, and

he glance towards a knife which lie on the table; then his sister throw

her arm round he, and he refrain. he wait till she have go to

bed, sit sulkily without speak. when we be alone he look up

and ask I abruptly, ‘Father, be you sorry that you strike I that

blow?’ there be something in the boy’s manner that appeal to my

well feeling, and I be half inclined to own myself wrong, but a

false shame prevent I, and I angrily reply ‘that I would repeat the

blow if he give I any more of his impertinence.’ he look sternly at

I, and mutter, ‘that you shall never do,’ quit the room. from

that day to this I have never see he. my poor Jane, who be dotingly

fond of he, be break-hearted at his loss. she tell I he often

threaten to run away when I have treat he harshly, and that his

intention be to go to sea. I have no doubt he contrive to put it into

execution. perhaps if her brother have remain with she the poor girl

might not have leave her home so readily. God help I, my sin have

bring their own punishment!”



an attack of faintness here overpower he, of so severe a character

that Lewis think it advisable to summon assistance. when Hardy have

in some degree recover, Lewis, on consult his watch, find that

he must return without further delay; he therefore prepare to depart,

bid hardy farewell, and promise to see he again on the follow

day. the die man shake his head.



“there will be no to-morrow for I in this world,” he say; then

press Lewis’s hand, he add, “God bless you, Mr. Arundel; you have

do I more good by your kind word than your sword have do I evil;

nay, even for my death I thank you; for have I live on as I be I should

only have add crime to crime. you will remember your promise about

poor jane?”



Lewis repeat his willingness to do all in his power to carry out the

die man’s wish; and Hardy add, “it may be that the poor boy I tell

you of be still alive. if he should ever return, I should like he to

know that I have often grieve for my bad conduct to he. I have leave

a letter for you with the clergyman in case I have not see you,” he

continue; “it only contain the request I have now make, and one or two

other particular of less consequence; he will give it to you when I be

go.” he again press Lewis’s hand feebly, and close his eye, lay

more dead than alive.



as Lewis quit the room the surgeon meet he and inform he that it

be not probable Hardy would survive through the night, but promise

that every attention should be bestow upon he. lewis’s thought, as

he ride back to Broadhurst, naturally run upon the history of sin and

shame and sorrow to which he have just listen, and he could not but

wonder for what purpose a frank, generous nature, such as Hardy have

originally possess, should have be so severely try. a like

question may have occur to many of we, and we may have feel that the

safe course be to look upon such thing as mystery to be regard

by the twilight of a patient faith, which wait trustfully till all that

now seem dark shall be make clear in the glorious brightness of the

perfect day.









chapter XLIX.--CONTAINS a PARADOX--LEWIS, when LEAST RESIGNED, display

the VIRTUE of resignation.



on the morning after his second visit to Hardy, Lewis receive a packet

from the hospital chaplain enclose the letter of which the die man

have speak, together with a note contain the information that Hardy

have breathe his last about two hour before, daybreak. the chaplain have

see he, and judge he to be in a fitting state of mind to receive the

last consolation of religion. after partaking of the Holy Communion he

have fall into a state of unconsciousness, and die without any return

of pain. Lewis open Hardy’s letter: it merely contain a repetition

of the request in regard to his unfortunate daughter, together with a

reference to one of his associate, in whose possession be a packet

contain his father-in-law’s will and other paper, all of which he

beg Lewis to take charge of and examine at his leisure; he also give

a clue by which Miss Grant’s watch and trinket might be recover, and

express his deep penitence for that robbery, as well as for his other

crime. as Lewis peruse this letter, he for the first time become more

fully aware of the embarrassing situation in which he have place himself

by his promise to Hardy. how be he to discover Lord Bellefield’s

victim? how endeavour to reclaim she? after a few minute’ think his

determination be take. General Grant have announce that morning the

fact that Lord Bellefield, having accept an invitation to Broadhurst,

might be expect in the course of the following day; Lewis therefore

resolve to address a letter to his lordship, to be give he on his

arrival, detail such portion of Hardy’s confession as relate to his

daughter, and the promise which he have be thereby induce to make to

the die poacher; add that if Lord Bellefield would afford he the

information necessary to enable he to carry out her father’s wish,

and would pledge his word of honour to avoid she for the future, he

should not attempt to give publicity to the matter, but that in the

event of his refusal he should feel it his duty to make General Grant

acquaint with the whole affair.



in pursuance of the system he have lay down for himself, Lewis avoid

Annie’s society as much as be possible; a line of conduct which she

soon appear to observe, and at first to wonder at.. the arrival of

Lord Bellefield, however, and her knowledge of Lewis’s feeling towards

he, afford she an imaginary clue to the young tutor’s alter

demeanour; still, the change annoy and pain she more than she

choose to acknowledge even to her own heart. Lord Belle-field be all

amiability; he have visit Italy, and bring back innumerable anecdote

of the domestic felicity of his brother Charles, whose wife he report

to be a model to her sex. his account of Charles’s prodigious business

effort, vary by occasional lapse into the _dolce far niente_ of

dandyism, be amusing in the extreme Annie be force to own that her

cousin appear greatly improve, and yet her repugnance to a renewal of

the engagement seem daily to increase. General Grant, however, by no

mean sympathise with this caprice, as he consider it, and be only

restrain from some violent manifestation of domestic despotism by

his confidence in his own authority, and in the certainty of Annie’s

obedience whenever he might see fit to demand it. Lewis write the letter

to Lord Bellefield, and having ascertain that it have reach he

safely, wait patiently for an answer. several day elapse without his

receive one, and he be debate what step he should next take, when,

as he be pace up and down a shrubbery walk, wrap in meditation,

he suddenly meet Lord Bellefield face to face. determine not to lose an

opportunity, he raise his hat, and bow slightly, began--



“this meeting be fortunate, as I be anxious to ask your lordship a

question. have you not receive a letter from I?”



“I have, sir,” be the haughty and concise reply.



“it be customary between gentleman to acknowledge the receipt of a

letter,” urge Lewis, “more particularly when, as in this instance, the

writer have pledge himself to act accord to the tenor of the answer.”



“I scarcely see how your observation apply to the present case,” be

the insolent rejoinder. “in regard to your letter, I have treat it

with the silent contempt it merit.”



Lewis’s brow flush; control the angry impulse, however, he say

calmly, “your lordship cannot irritate I by such insinuation--you be

aware of the alternative when you refuse to answer my letter?”



“I be, sir; you be welcome to take any course you please: I scorn your

false accusation, and leave you to do your bad.”



“in that case we understand each other,” be the stern reply, and again

raise his hat, Lewis pass on.



after this brief conversation he lose no time in obtain a private

interview with General Grant; scarcely, however, have he begin his

statement when the General interrupt he by observing--



“I need not trouble you to proceed; Mr. Arundel; I be in possession of

all the fact you be about to detail--Lord Bellefield have give I

a full explanation of the matter, and I can assure you that you be

labour under an erroneous impression. the main fact of the story

be, I be sorry to say, true; but the chief actor in the affair be a

rascally valet of Lord Bellefield’s, who assume his master’s name and

apparel in order to accomplish his nefarious design.”



“but I myself witness an interview between Lord Bellefield and the

poor girl on the morning after the ball,” return Lewis in surprise; “I

should not have bring such a charge on insufficient ground, believe

I.”



“your zeal, sir,” reply the General--“for I be willing to attribute

the step you have take solely to misdirect zeal--have assuredly lead

you into error. Lord Bellefield, who seem by some mean aware of this

idea of yours----”



“I mention the fact that I have see he in a letter which I address

to he on the subject,” interrupt Lewis. “it be only fair when you

accuse a man of any fault to explain the ground on which you believe

he to have commit it.”



“quite right, sir, quite right,” rejoin the General with an approve

nod; “it be owe to the fair and manly way in which you have state

this matter that Lord Bellefield have be enable to clear himself to my

entire satisfaction. in regard to the interview to which you refer, he

have recall to I the fact that he spend the morning in question almost

entirely in my company; we be engage upon matter connect with the

approach election--you must therefore have mistake the identity of

the person you imagine to be he.”



“I be not apt to make such mistake,” reply Lewis dryly, feel

convince that the story be a clever fabrication from begin to end,

while, at the same time, he be become aware that for he to prove it

to be so would be next to impossible.



“nevertheless, you must have do so in this instance,” resume General

Grant; “but the mistake be easily to be account for. Lord Bellefield

tell I that in order more safely to carry on his scheme, this

rascally valet use to disguise himself so as to resemble his master

as much as possible, even wear false moustachio to increase the

likeness; the fact of his having deceive you prove how successfully

the fellow have contrive his disguise.”



while the General be speak, Lewis hastily run over in his mind all

the evidence he possess to prove Lord Bellefield’s guilt; and though

he still feel as deeply convinced as he have ever be that in his first

impression he have not err, yet so skilfully have this story of the

valet be adapt to suit the circumstance of the case that it

appear impossible to undeceive a man whose habit of mind be so

obstinate as those of General Grant. his first introduction to the girl

after the glove affair in the ice-room, although it carry conviction

to his own mind, prove nothing, save that having witness a quarrel

between two gentleman, she be naturally enough alarmed as to the

probable consequence to which it might lead. again, in his second

interview she might have be herself deceive by the valet’s

representation into believe he to be Lord Bellefield, or, as she

say, Mr. Leicester, his brother; or again, it be still more probable

that she have be in her lover’s confidence, and strive to mystify

and deceive Lewis. hardy might have be aware of other fact, but his

mistake in regard to Lewis prove that his information be not to be

rely on. all this Lewis see at a glance; and see, feel more annoyed

and embarrassed than he could express.



“Time will prove the truth,” he say; “I cannot believe in Lord

Bellefield’s innocence, but I be unable, at the present moment, to

adduce any fact which might not bear the interpretation he have choose

to put upon they, and can only express my sorrow at having annoy you,

sir, by make a charge which I have fail to substantiate.”



“you annoy I more, Mr. Arundel, by refuse to be convince by evidence

which, after having give the matter my full attention, have suffice

to satisfy I. I can only imagine that in this matter private pique

have warp your usually clear judgment; perhaps, after a little cool

reflection, you may be induce to take a more charitable view of

the affair.” so say, the General stalk out of the room with a

majestic port, as of an offended lion, leave Lewis in a frame of mind

the reverse of seraphic. but his trial for that morning be not yet at

an end. Annie Grant have brood over the young tutor’s gloomy look and

alter demeanour till she have make herself quite unhappy, when the

idea occur to she that she herself might be to blame. since the

last german lesson, to which allusion have be make, she have feel an

instinctive dread of sound the depth of her own feeling, or of

allow any one else, and much more Lewis, to perceive they. but it now

strike she that in avoid one extreme she have fall into the other,

and that Lewis might conceive the alteration in her manner to be owe

to Lord Bellefield’s influence. this notion having once strike she, be

so inconceivably painful that she determine to avail herself of the

first opportunity of inquire to what cause Lewis’s estrangement might

be attribute; and if she find it have be produce by any suppose

coolness on her part, she resolve to explain away such impression, and

as she herself would have term it, “make friend” again. ponder

these thought, she enter the library by a door communicate with

the garden; in her hand she carry a bunch of rose, which she have just

gather, and hang from her arm be her garden bonnet, which she have

convert for the occasion into an extempore basket, also fill with

rose; her golden ringlet, scare from their propriety by the wind,

hang in picturesque disorder about her face and neck; the alarm she have

lately undergone have render she somewhat pale than ordinary, and her

delicate feature be characterise by an unusually pensive expression.

she enter so quietly, that Lewis, who, bury in thought, be seat

at the table, his head rest on his hand, do not perceive her

presence until, in a soft, low voice, she utter his name. at the

moment she speak he be think of she--strive in vain to banish she

image, which haunt his imagination like some restless ghost--try

to _think down_ the temptation which be hourly become too strong for

he; and when the sound of her voice reach he, and look up with a

start he see she stand by he in the power of her dazzle beauty, it

seem as though the phantom of his imagination have suddenly assume a

bodily shape to tempt he beyond all power of resistance. something of

all this must have appear in the expression of his feature, for Annie

begin, “I beg your pardon, Mr. Arundel, I have no idea of startle you;

I fancy you have hear I enter--but you look pale and tremble, surely

you be not ill?”



“oh, no!” he reply, force a smile, “it be nothing; a slight

giddiness which will pass away in a moment.”



as he speak, however, he press his hand to his brow, which throb as

though it would burst. Annie become alarmed, and place her flower on

the table, she draw near to he, saying--



“I be sure there be something the matter; you be either ill or unhappy;

you have receive some bad news of your mother, or dear Rose, be it not

so?”



“indeed you be mistaken,” return Lewis, make an effort to rouse

himself; “I be bury in thought, and your sudden entrance startle I.

I be not usually give to such freak, but since our nocturnal adventure

I must confess to having become practically convinced of the existence

of nerve. I must have lose more blood from this cut in the wrist than I

be at first aware of.”



“ah! that dreadful night!” exclaim Annie, clasp her hand and

turn pale at the recollection; “I shall never forget all I go

through on that night if I live to be a hundred. I have be asleep for

an hour or more, when I suddenly wake and see Lisette stand by my

bedside pale and trembling; as soon as she could find voice to speak

she tell I there be robber in the house, and that we should all be

murder. my first idea be that you would be able to save we, and I

tell she to go and arouse you instantly; I soon find, however, she be

too much alarmed to go alone, so I rise and accompany she. the rest

you know; but you can never know the agony of mind I suffer after you

have leave I: first, the dreadful interval of suspense before the robber

come upstairs, and then the fearful sound of the conflict. I feel sure

they would kill you, and I think how wickedly selfish I have be to

allow you to stay there and meet they, when, but for I, you might have

escape. I feel as if I have condemn you to death, and that I could

never--never be happy again. oh! it be too horrible!” and carry away

by the recollection she have call up, Annie sink into a chair and

cover her eye with her hand, as if to shut out some painful object.



and Lewis, what have be his feeling, as, hurry on by the interest

of her subject, Annie have thus unconsciously afford he a glimpse into

the inmost recess of her heart? when she mention that her impulse on

the first alarm of danger have be to rely on his protection, his dark

eye beam with an inexpressible tenderness; but as she proceed, and

her artless confession prove that in the moment of peril her fear be

not for herself but for he, his emotion become uncontrollable, and the

volcano of passion, whose secret fire have already begin to prey upon

his very life-spring, threaten to burst forth and bear down all

before it. already he have half rise from his seat; in another moment

his arm would have encircle she, and the word that tell of his deep,

his overpowering love--the word that, once say, could never have

be recall, would have be pour forth, when, by one of those

dispensation of Providence which man call Chance, his eye fall upon

two person who be pace, arm-in-arm, along a terrace walk on the

farth side of the lawn--they be General Grant and Lord Bellefield.

the revulsion of feeling be instantaneous; duty, honour, pride, all

come to the rescue, and the fight be win, but the cost remain yet

to reckon. Lewis, once excited, be not a person to take half-measure;

with the speed of thought, the resolution rush upon he that while

their mutual relation remain unchanged, he and Annie must never meet

again. the purpose be no soon form than it be act upon. turn

to his companion, who, engross by her own feeling, have remain

wholly unconscious of the struggle that have be proceed in Lewis’s

breast, he say in a calm, mournful voice, “although I have not exactly

receive evil tiding, yet circumstance have occur which require my

presence elsewhere, and I be now about to ask your father’s permission

to leave Broadhurst; this will, therefore, probably be the last time I

shall see you.”



“until you return,” interrupt Annie eagerly.



a bitter smile flit across Lewis’s mouth as he reply, “yes, until

I return! I will therefore bid you good-bye at once.” he pause, and

his eye fall upon a rose-bud she be unconsciously play with. “I have

a fancy for that flower,” he say; “will you give it to I?”



“Nay, let I find you a well one,” be the reply; “this be blight.”



“for which reason I prefer it to any other; you know I have odd fancy

sometimes.” he take the bud from she, fix it in his buttonhole, then

resume, “I must now seek the General--good-bye!”



Annie regard he with a plead glance, as though she would fain

learn more; but read in the stern resolution of his countenance the

inutility of further questioning, hold out her hand in silence; he take

it, clasp it in his own, then, yield to an irresistible impulse,

press it hurriedly to his lip, and be go.



General Grant be naturally by no mean of a suspicious disposition; the

position in which he be place give he irresponsible authority

over nearly every person with whom he come in contact, have render

he pompous and arbitrary; but although not a man of enlarged mind,

or possess much delicacy of perception, he be actuate by a strong

principle of justice. this attribute impart a degree of frankness

and generosity to his character, which, despite occasional display of

obstinacy or prejudice, cause he to be very generally respect, and

in some instance belove. to a mind of this nature there can be nothing

more vexatious or annoying than to have its preconceived opinion of

a person shake by artful insinuation, which will require long and

patient investigation to verify or disprove. in such a state of mind

as we have describe, however, do Lord Bellefield leave General Grant

when, after pace up and down the memorable terrace walk which have

be the scene of De Grandeville’s ill-judge confidence to Charley

Leicester, he at length quit he. the subject of their conversation

have be the character of Lewis Arundel; and Lord Bellefield have take

advantage of the General’s momentary irritation against the young

tutor to suggest, rather than positively to make, the follow

accusation:--He first hint that the General have be deceive by

Lewis’s fair seeming, to adopt a wrong view of his disposition, and

that, instead of the chivalrous, high-spirit, honourable be he

imagine he, he be in fact an artful and accomplished hypocrite. he

then proceed to state that he have long see this, and even suspect

the object of his lengthened residence at Broadhurst, nay, possibly of

his original entrance into that family; this object he declare to be a

systematic design to ensnare the affection of the General’s daughter,

probably rely on his good look and insinuate manner to enable

he to inveigle she into a runaway marriage. “hence,” he observe, “his

animosity towards I; hence his unsuccessful attempt to blacken

my character, first in regard to poor Mellerton’s affair, and now

concern the poacher’s daughter. if he could once have succeed

in produce a quarrel between we, he would have have a clear field to

himself. I be unwilling to disturb you by tell you this before,

sir,” he continue. “I feel perfect confidence in my cousin Annie’s

affection; and as to the young fellow himself, he be of course quite

beneath my notice; but Annie, after all, be a mere girl, and naturally

inexperienced in the way of the world. since the hint you throw out,

advise I to proceed with gentleness, because she appear to have

some girlish scruple as to the renewal of the engagement, I have feel

it be incumbent on I to put you on your guard without delay. the man

be handsome--chance have give he many opportunity of interesting a

romantic girl, and it must be confess our dear Annie have a spice of

romance about she.”



“I do not think so, sir,” interrupt the General snappishly; “none of

the Grants ever be romantic. I be not romantic myself, and I do not

believe a daughter of mine would forget her duty, her position, in fact

her relationship to I, so far as to indulge in romance in regard to a

private tutor. moreover, I believe Mr. Arundel to be a highly honourable

young man; he be the son of a soldier and a gentleman, and I cannot

but consider that you wrong he by your suspicion; at the same time, I

promise you the matter shall be look into, the engagement between my

daughter and yourself formally renew, and the moment she be of age, it

be my wish that the marriage should take place. it be desirable for your

sake as well as for her. I trust when you become a married man to see

you give up racing, and take more interest in public business. it be, as

you be aware, my intention to settle Broadhurst upon your second son;

it will therefore behove you to distinguish yourself as one in whom the

family of Leicester and Grant be united.”



so say, the General relapse into a solemn silence, and Lord

Bellefield, inly rage at the tone of authority which his future

father-in-law see fit to assume towards he, quit he, leave the

poison he have instill into his mind to work; and it do work, for

although he be disinclined in the high degree to admit the truth of

his intended son-in-law’s insinuation against Lewis, yet he could not

banish they from his mind. a thousand little circumstance come to his

recollection of which at the moment he have think nothing, but which

now appear to favour Lord Bellefield’s view of the case; and for the

first time his own imprudence in throw so constantly together two

young people in every way calculate to attract each other occur

to he, and he pace the terrace walk in a frame of mind by no mean

customary to that gallant officer--viz., one of self-reprobation. while

thus ponder, at a sudden turn in the walk the object of his thought

appear before he, look so tall, dark, and cold, as, with his arm

fold across his breast, he stand statue-like beneath the shadow of an

old yew-tree, that the General start as though he have see a ghost.

if any such notion occur to he, however, the illusion be soon

dissipate, for Lewis, raise his hat, advanced towards he and said--



“I have seek you, General Grant, to thank you for all the generous

courtesy I have receive at your hand, and to tell you that it be

impossible for I long to continue a member of your household.”



as Lewis speak these word calmly and respectfully, the General’s face

assume an expression of surprise and dismay most wonderful to behold.



“what!” he exclaim, “resign your appointment as tutor to my ward! quit

Sir Walter before you have complete his education, when your system

have be so surprisingly successful, too! oh, the thing be impossible, I

cannot hear of it.”



a look of sorrow pass across Lewis’s feature as the General mention

Walter, but he reply with the same calm, respectful, but determine

manner, which, to one who know he well, would have prove that he

be act in accordance with some resolve that he have form upon

principle, and to which he would adhere inflexibly.



“I be grieve to be oblige to relinquish my task unfinishe,” he say,

“more especially since the interest I have long feel in my poor pupil

have render duty which other might consider irksome a labour of love

to I. I trust, however, that I have be enable so far to develop poor

Walter’s intellect that any person who will treat he judiciously and

kindly (and to no other, I be sure, you would entrust he) may be able

to complete all that remain to be do towards his education.”



“and pray what be your reason for this sudden determination, Mr.

Arundel?” inquire the General, become more and more perplexed as

he perceive that it would be no easy matter to alter Lewis’s

determination. “I presume some more advantageous prospect have be

throw open to you?”



Lewis shake his head mournfully. “you wrong I by such a supposition,

sir,” he reply; “my future, as far as I can foresee it, be not a

bright one, believe I.”



“have Lord Bellefield in any way annoy or interfere with you?”

 inquire the General, as a suspicion cross his mind that his amiable

future son-in-law might have take some aggressive step against the

young tutor; but Lewis again reply in the negative, add that his

reason for resign his post be entirely of a personal nature, and

that he have not come to the conclusion without due consideration.



“really, sir,” return the General, draw himself up stiffly, as

the suspicion instill by Lord Bellefield suddenly flash across his

mind, “these enigma be past my comprehension. you propose to resign at

a moment’s notice the conduct of my ward’s education, thereby materially

injure he, and cause I the great inconvenience and annoyance;

I think, therefore, you owe it to I as well as to yourself candidly to

state your reason for so do; at all event I must be allow to say

such concealment be most unlike your usual frank and manly course of

proceed.”



as the General utter this reproach Lewis colour, and his compress

lip and knitted brow tell how deeply it affect he. when the other have

cease speak he answer haughtily, “your reproof may be deserve,

General Grant, but it be my wish to save we both pain, which alone

induce I to desire the concealment you reprobate; your word, however,

oblige I to speak openly, and cost what it may, I will do so. _I cannot

remain long beneath your roof \ because I love your daughter_. wait,”

 he continue sternly, as with a start of horrified surprise the General

seem about to give vent to his indignation in a torrent of word,

“you have force I to speak, and must now hear I out. I well know the

feeling with which you regard my mad presumption, as you consider it;

I know well even than you do the gulf which lie between your daughter

and your pay dependant; but nature recognise no such distinction--the

same God who make she good and beautiful implant in my breast the

admiration for those quality, and I could no more exist in her

presence without love she than I could stand in the glorious sunshine

without feel its genial warmth. my love be from the beginning as

hopeless as I know it to be at this moment, when I read in your

lowering brow that if your frown could annihilate I, you would deem the

punishment only too mild for my offence against your pride of station;

and yet I know, and you know it too, that cast aside the adventitious

gift of rank and fortune, my nature be more akin to your own than

be that of the title worldle you have select as your future

son-in-law. before night set in I shall have leave this house for ever,

and from that moment to you and yours I shall be as one dead. I may

therefore say without fear of misconstruction that which I could not

speak as long as I remain a member of your household. the tale that I

tell you regard the poacher’s child be _true_. in the version Lord

Bellefield give of it he lie to you. he be a man of evil passion and

of narrow mind, and I warn you, if you entrust your daughter’s happiness

to he, a time will come when you will bitterly repent it. I will next

tell you why I have remain here thus long, and why I leave you now.

my passion for your daughter have be the growth of month; how I have

strive against it and endeavour to crush it out--ay, though I crush

my heart with it, none will ever know; it be enough that I have fail,

that where I fancy myself strong I have be prove weak. if I

have suffer, ’tis through my own folly; if my future appear one

fathomless hell of recollection, for myself have I prepare it.” he

pause, draw his hand across his throb brow, and then continued--



“I remain here for Walter’s sake, rely on my own fortitude to

conceal the mental torture I endure; I bear Lord Bellefield’s sneer,

and hard still, your daughter’s gentle kindness, with an unmoved

aspect, but at each successive trial the effort become great, and

my strength grow less, until this morning when in her tender woman’s

mercy, your daughter, read in my face trace of the anguish which be

consume I, speak word of kindliness and sympathy, chance alone,

or rather the watchful providence of God, prevent my secret from

transpire. a similar trial might recur at any moment--I have lose all

confidence in my power of self-control; therefore every principle of

honour and of duty bid I leave this place without delay; and this, so

help I Heaven, be the whole and simple truth.”



as he conclude, General Grant, whose brow have gradually relax during

Lewis’s speech, exclaim with a degree of warmth most unusual to he,

“you have behave like a man of honour, Mr. Arundel, under what I own

to have be a very great trial, and I admire and respect you for so

completely justify the favourable opinion I have form of you; I

wish--that is, I could wish if the thing be not impossible--but it

be useless to talk in this way--you must, as you wisely perceive, leave

Broadhurst immediately. I will take upon I to find some reason to

account for your abrupt departure, but you will carry with you my esteem

and gratitude, and in whatever career you may think fit to adopt you may

rely upon my willingness to assist you to the uttermost. may I inquire

your future plan?”



“I have form no plan,” return Lewis hurriedly. “when I leave your

house my only prospect be to begin life anew, with every hope that

render life endurable shut out from I for ever--I be grateful for your

offer, but must decline they. Henceforward I be likely to do little

credit to any one’s patronage, and must strive with existence alone and

single-handed. and now, ere I leave you, let I again thank you for the

courtesy you have uniformly show I--I expect justice at your hand,

you have add kindness also: we shall probably never meet again, but

the chance of life be strange, and should it ever be in my power to

return your benefit, you will not find I forgetful.”



he raise his hat as he speak, and turn to depart. General Grant

advance as if he would detain he, but check himself, he muttered--



“you shall hear from I--I will write to you at your banker’s;” and

Lewis bow and leave he.









CHAPTER L.--SHOWS how LEWIS come to a “dogged” determination, and be

make the shuttlecock of FATE.



“Walter, I be go to leave you,” observe Lewis in a quiet, gentle

voice.



Walter, who be seat on a low stool playing with Faust, continue his

amusement, merely reply carelessly, “be you?”



Lewis know from the nature of the answer that the sound but not the

sense of his communication have reach his poor pupil’s understanding,

and yet the apparent indifference of the remark pain he; it seem

as if all he love be fall away from he. he have determine that

it would be well for Walter not to be tell at once that he be leave

never to return, but to allow the truth gradually to dawn upon he,

after he have practically test his ability to do without he; still he

be anxious in some degree to prepare the poor boy’s mind to support the

severe grief which he fear his absence would occasion he. accordingly

he return to the attack.



“look at I, Walter,” he say. having catch his eye, he continue, “you

do not understand I, dear boy; I be go away--go to leave you for

a long time.”



“ay? how long a time? a week?” inquire Walter.



“a great many week,” return Lewis gravely, “and you must be very good

all the time, and do everything as you know I should wish you to do it

if I be here: do you understand I, and will you try?”



Walter nod assent, pause, and then ask, “what will Faust do; may

he stay with I?”



Lewis do not answer. give up Faust, the only thing that he have leave to

love he! could he make this sacrifice?



“because, if he may stay, I shall feel sure you will come back some

time or other; nobody can leave Faust and not come and see he again--at

least nobody who know he and love he as well as you and I do,”

 plead Walter, throw his arm round the dog’s neck.



I be inflict injury enough on the poor boy as it be, reflect Lewis

sorrowfully; I must not deny he this thing, which he have set his heart

upon. well, it only make the sacrifice the more complete. “Walter, will

you be happy if I leave Faust with you?” he inquire gently.



“oh, yes!” be the joyful reply, “quite happy till you come again.”



“then he shall stay,” resume Lewis; “remember he be your dog, I give

he to you.”



“yes, he be my dog,” repeat Walter gleefully; “only till you come back

again though, you know,” he add, gaze wistfully at Lewis.



Poor Lewis! his heart be full, he could not trust himself to speak;

this little incident have appeal to the affectionate side of his

nature, and all but unmanned he. he approach Walter, sweep back the

soft, fair hair from his forehead, and imprint a kiss on it, pat

Faust’s shaggy head, and turn away abruptly, quit the room.

Ere nightfall he have complete the few arrangement which his sudden

departure render necessary, and take with he only a small

travel valise which he sling across his shoulder, he wait till

the shade of evening have set in, and leave direction with his ally

Robert, now invest with all the dignity and privilege of butler-hood,

in regard to his luggage, which he desire might be forward to a

certain address in London, he quit Broadhurst alone and on foot.



the town of H---------- be situate about ten mile from the park gate

of Broadhurst, and thither do Lewis direct his step. he pace along

mechanically, with a dull, heavy tread, as unlike his usual free elastic

bound step as possible; he keep his eye fix on the road before

he, neither glance to the right nor the left, and all his action

appear like those of one move in a dream. the night be dry and

warm, and when Lewis have proceed about six mile on his way the

moon come out and bathe hill and valley in a flood of silvery light.

suddenly he pause, as the ruin of a picturesque old abbey, throw

out in bold relief by a dark background of tree, become visible at a

turning of the road, and fix his eye on the time-wear structure,

gaze long and earnestly; then a new idea seem to strike he, and

spring over a gate, he ascend with vigorous stride the green

hillside on which the ruin be situate. pass beneath crumble

arch and over the fallen stone-work cover old grave of a forgotten

generation, he reach a portion of the building which seem in

somewhat well repair than the remainder. having reach the upper end

of the chancel, he pause, and lean his back against the break

shaft of a pillar which have support one of the arch, give way to

the painful recollection which the place excite. the last time he have

visit that spot, Annie Grant have stand by his side, and as he teach

she how the mystic piety of our forefather have strive to symbolise

the truth of Christianity in the cruciform cathedral, with its vault

arch and heaven-aspire pinnacle, her soft blue eye have look into

his face with an expression of the respectful love we feel towards one

whom we deem well and wise than ourselves. and now how cruel be the

contrast--how completely and painfully alone he feel. then he long

(who have not at some crisis of the inner-life?) so earnestly that he

almost fancy he possess the power to separate mind and matter, and

fly in the spirit to she he love, to learn whether she think of

he and grieve for his absence. pursue the idea, he come to speculate

on many thing. have they yet tell she he would not return? what reason

would the General assign for such an abrupt departure? would she believe

his account, or would her heart divine the true cause? and if it do,

would she pity him?--strongest proof of love--he could bear the idea of

her pity.



[illustration: 0370]



Poor Lewis! perhaps his great trial be this, that at the very moment

when he give she up for ever, a latent sense of power tell he that he

could have win she; this be indeed the “sorrow’s crown of sorrow”--the

bitterness of more than self-renunciation, for Annie, too, might

be render unhappy by his act. then the future, the blank, fearful

future--what lie in store for he there? “fresh sorrow--no” (and he

smile as man on the rack have smile when the tormentor have

outwit themselves, and the numbness of approach death have produce

insensibility to pain and rob they of their victim), “he be dead

alike to sorrow as to joy;” but at the moment, as if to prove he weak

even in the _vis inertio_ of despair, the possibility of Annie’s union

with Lord Bellefield come before he like some hideous phantom, and

he be force to own that there might be depth of misery await

he great than he have yet prove. and thus recall the past

and imagine the future, he afflict himself with grief real and

visionary, till the moonbeam grow pale and altogether flee, and

the star disappear one by one, and the red glow of the eastern sky

proclaim the come day, and the sun arise glorious in his majesty,

and his early ray pour through the broken roof and fall in a

stream of golden light upon the ruin altar; then for the first time

that night Lewis think of Rose, and of what her advice would have

be have she know of his unhappiness; and prostrate himself upon the

altar-step, he pray long and fervently.



the reflection that when our sorrow have become too heavy for we to bear

there be one mighty to save, himself in his earthly career a “man of

sorrow and acquaint with grief,” who will strengthen we to support

they, must console the deep mental anguish; and we do not believe

that any man have ever pray truly and earnestly without receive

comfort from so do. for the very act recognise a belief in the

existence and faith in the benevolence of a being, all powerful alike to

avert the evil we dread, and to bestow upon we the good we desire. and

Lewis, when he arise from his knee, do so refresh in spirit, and

well fit to do or to suffer, as he might be require by the change

and chance of that portion of the Railroad of Life over which he have

yet to pass.



he reach the town of H-------- as the inhabitant, arouse from their

slumber, be drowsily open the shop-window, and make his way to

a small, unobtrusive inn, breakfast. having ascertain at what hour

the last coach pass through for London, he leave his valise under the

care of the waiter, and pass along several dirty, narrow street, at

length reach a court, in one of the poor and most wretched quarter

of the town. here, after some trouble and a disagreeable amount of

threatening glance from sundry suspicious-look character, he

succeed in discover the abode of a certain Jerry Sullivan. this

worthy, having satisfy himself that Lewis be not a member of the

detective police, graciously accord he an interview, wherein Lewis

explain to he that, in consequence of a communication make to he by

Hardy on his death-bed, he be anxious to investigate the content of

a packet leave in possession of his (Sullivan’s) maternal ancestor. this

fact, Mr. Sullivan, whose brogue be considerably strong than his

regard for truth, immediately see fit to deny, and be proceed to

lament the death of his mother, which he aver have take place that

day fortnight, when he be interrupt by the inopportune entrance

of the lady in question, who appear by no mean dead, but in a very

lively state of virtuous indignation. she immediately silence she

mendacious offspring, and beckon Lewis into a kind of den which she

inhabit, shut the door, and then question and cross-question he

as to his connection with Hardy. having satisfied herself, by peruse

Hardy’s letter, that Lewis be no impostor, she unlock an old trunk,

whence she produce a bundle of paper and a sheet of parchment.



“there,” she say, “that’s the will he speak of, poor fellow, and they’s

the letter--and I only hope as you’ll be able to find the unfort’nate

childring, and that they will come into the money all right--it’s nigh

£100 year, I’m tell.”



“have you any idea whether Hardy have at all trace his daughter since

she leave he?” inquire Lewis.



“no; he hear nothink of she, poor chap; he be a’most brokenhearte

about she, and that’s what drive he to the course he take to. he

worn’t a reg’lar prig, bless yer; he do a little in the poarche line

wile, but only for the sake o’ the sport, same as you gent--he wor

above they thing altogether. but I know more than he do about the

gal: there be a young ’ooman here a week ago as have see she in

London, dress out and ride about in a coach like a lady; but that

wor soon arter she fust go off with the young swell, and wor a kind of

new toy like.”



“and do not the girl know anything of she since?” inquire Lewis.



“well, she know’d this much, that when the young lord go abroad with

his sister he make his valet stop behind and foller he in a few day

with Jane Hardy, arter which she in course lose sight of she; but she

think he’s leave she over in they fur part.”



“they fur part--that must mean Italy,” think Lewis; and find

the old woman have tell he all she know on the subject, he thank

she for her information, secure the paper about his person, and be

prepare to depart, when his companion stop he, and summon

Jerry, whose main, if not only, virtue appear to consist in filial

obedience, cause he to escort the “young gent” beyond the purlieus of

the miserable alley in which their abode be situate.



the visit have take long than Lewis have expect; and on his return

to the inn he find the coach would pass through in about half-an-hour.

snatch a hasty meal, he place the paper in his valise, and in a

few minute be on his road to London. the coach stop at an inn in

Holborn, and here Lewis, who, in his present state of mind, be anxious

to avoid a meeting with any of his friend, Frere himself not except,

determined for the next few day to take up his abode. accordingly, he

engage a sitting-room and bedroom, which, for the sake of privacy and

cheapness, be situate at the back of the house, at an altitude little

inferior to that of the neighbouring chimney-pot. having establish

himself in this uninviting residence, he sit down to try and arrange

some plan for the future. he feel that he ought to write to Rose and his

mother and acquaint they with his altered destiny; but to do so involve

an explanation which he shrink from attempt. he try to read, but

the only book at hand be a volume of Schiller, and with a sickening

feeling of despair he throw it from he. at length he bethink he of

Hardy’s paper, and untie the string that bind they, he spread they

on the table before he. the will, which he first examine, appear

formally draw up, sign, and attest. the testator leave property

worth, as far as Lewis could make out, about £100 a year to Jane and

Miles Hardy. lay this aside, he turn over a mass of small paper,

old game certificate, receipt for rent, and among other a note

carefully preserve, endorse in a bold free hand, “the first letter I

ever receive from Harriet.” it be an invitation, coquettishly word,

ask Hardy to join a party to the ---------- race, write by she

who have sin so deeply, and have long since go to give account of the

misery she have cause and suffer. Lewis could not look on this record

of an affection which even the great wrong woman can do to man have

be unable wholly to destroy, without the deep commiseration.



lay the note carefully aside, he take up the bundle of old letter,

and select one which be partially open, glance carelessly at its

content. why do he start and change colour as his eye fall upon the

handwriting? why press his hand to his burn brow as the momentary

doubt cross his mind whether all the mental anguish he have lately

suffer can have unsettle his brain, or whether that which he behold

be indeed reality? eagerly do he devour the content of the epistle,

eagerly do he unfold letter after letter till not one of the packet

remain unperused. again, sit late into the night, do he read and

re-read they, then fold they carefully, pace up and down the room,

chafing at the lazy hour that drag their weary length and oppose a

barrier between his wish and the come day, when he may act and

resolve doubt into certainty. for the whole of that night, the second

during which he have never close an eyelid, do he measure with

restless step the narrow limit of the apartment. leave his breakfast

untasted, he hurry, at the early business hour, to the chamber

of the family solicitor; for half the morning do they remain closet

together--together do they seek the office (clepe by Richard Frere a

den of thief) of Messrs. Jones & Levi, the lawyer who, as the reader

may remember, address a mysterious letter to Lewis soon after his

first arrival at Broadhurst. carefully do the astute man of law examine

and compare paper, and sift evidence, and draw out the crafty rogue

with whom he have to deal; and when he have gain all the information he

require, steadily and cautiously do he examine the affair in all its

bearing; nor be it till he have thoroughly make himself master of the

subject that he approach Lewis, and shake he heartily by the hand,

exclaim, “well, my dear sir, as far as one can judge in this early

stage of the proceeding, I think you have a very good case; and I beg

to congratulate you on the prospect before you.”



and what, then, be this prospect, at the mere possibility of which

Lewis’s eye sparkle and his cheek glow with the brightness of renew

hope? it be the prospect of inherit an ancient and honourable name,

of gain a position which would render he not only equal but superior

in rank to Annie Grant, and of possess an income beside which Lord

Bellefield’s fortune, impoverish by the turf and the gaming-table,

sink into comparative insignificance. one short year more for he to

prove his right before the eye of man, and then, if Annie be but true

to her own heart, he would boldly enter the list against his rival, and

in love or hate Lord Bellefield should find that he have meet his match.

well might his step be proud and his bear joyous and elated, for in

twelve hour the whole aspect of life have become change to he: such

shuttlecock be we in the hand of Fate, as unthinke man term the

mysterious ordinance of the Omnipotent.



have he know the content of a letter which be even then await he

at his banker’s, his new-find joy might have be lessen.









CHAPTER LI.--CONTAINS much SORROW, and PREPARES the way for MORE.



the letter to which reference be make at the conclusion of the

precede chapter, and which Lewis receive on the day follow that

on which he visit Mr. Coke, the family solicitor, prove to be from

General Grant, and run as follows:--



“my dear young Friend,--for in that light I must ever consider you,

after the many important service you have render me,--I be anxious

to lose no time in forward to your account, at Messrs.--, your salary

for the year begin May 18--; and as you have be compel by

honourable feel to throw up your appointment so unexpectedly, and may

not be fortunate enough to meet immediately with another suit to your

wish, you will, I feel sure, allow I, as some small testimony of the

high esteem in which I hold you, to enclose a cheque for £500 instead

of,£300. I shall feel hurt if you refuse to accept this token of my

regard.”



“two hundred pound for give up his daughter! he would scarcely have

buy I off so cheap if I have look at the matter in a pecuniary

point of view,” be Lewis’s ironical comment, as with an inward

resolution instantly to return the £200 he continue to peruse the

letter.



“you will be glad to hear that Walter bear your absence wonderfully

well; your kind consideration in leave he the dog have produce a very

good effect, as the animal serve to amuse he. we have not as yet be

able to disabuse he of the notion that you will return, although I have

impress upon my daughter, who appear to possess more influence with

he than any other member of the family, the necessity for so do. the

mention of my daughter’s name lead I for the last time to touch upon

a subject which I can conceive may be painful even to your

well-discipline mind. during an interview which I hold with she

yesterday, she express her readiness to be guide entirely by my

wish. with her full concurrence, the engagement to Lord Bellefield be

formally renew, and the marriage be to take place as soon as she come

of age. I may add that, as far as I be able to judge upon so delicate a

point, I do not doubt that her intend bridegroom possess she

entire affection. you will not think I unnecessarily communicative, or

careless of your feeling, in mention these fact; but I conceive the

knowledge of they may tend soon to restore your mind to its usually

healthy tone. should you still be in England after my daughter’s

marriage, I shall have much pleasure in see you either at Broadhurst

or in Park Crescent. convey my remembrance to Mrs. and Miss Arundel,



“and believe I to remain, your sincerely and faithfully,



“Archibald Grant.”



Lewis read the letter steadily to the end. with tremble lip and

start eyeball do he reperuse it; he could not avert his gaze, it

appear to possess a species of horrible fascination for he; he feel

as if his brain would burst, as if his reason be fail he. Annie

love Lord Bellefield, and allow the engagement to be formally

renew--oh, it be impossible! he _must_ be go mad--an evil which

his bad fear point at only as a remote possibility, when time

should have efface his image, and the influence of those around she

have conquer her linger scruple, come to pass ere the rosebud she

have give he have wither on its stem. why be it that the trial have

become too great for he to bear--that his selfcontrol have fail--be

it only the intensity of his own feeling that he fear? or be it that

he hope, yet dread to learn, that he be belove? do the sacrifice

that he have make consist only of his love for she, or do the belief

that he be relinquish the certainty of win hers in return add

a redoubled bitterness to his self-renunciation? be a thousand

remember word, look, glance, reality, or the creation of his

morbid fancy? he rise and pace the room, as be his willnot when

deeply excited. where should he seek a clue to this mystery? could he

believe--the thought flash like lightning through his brain, like

lightning, sear as it pass--could he believe that he have again be

dupe by a coquette? be all woman false and heartless alike? could

the goodness, and innocence, and purity which render beauty such as

Annie’s a link between earth and heaven be mere counterfeit, and not

the angel-instinct they appear? do good exist at all? or be this

world an initiatory hell, and the evil principle predominant? be Annie

untrue, truth itself might be but a great and specious falsehood.



from this chaos of passionate distraction a few clear, but on that

account no less painful, idea begin to evolve themselves: his newfound

dream of joy have vanish; rank and fortune, value only because they

would bring he near to Annie, would become a tie and a burden without

she--he would have none of they. for his mother and sister he would

still labour; to support they be his first duty: in work which he

_must_ perform lie his only refuge against despair, perhaps even against

madness. there be something else: some promise he make, what be it?

his brain swam, he could recollect nothing clearly; hastily remove his

neckcloth he plunge his head and face into a basin of cold water--this

precaution in all probability save he from a brain fever. having

partially dry his streaming lock and resume his walk up and down

the apartment, he remember his promise to Hardy. yes, that also be

a sacred duty; the girl must be discover, rescue from a life of

‘infamy, separate for ever from----, and here he stop abruptly as a

new idea occur to he--Lord Bellefield! the retribution he have vow

to exact from he! he be now free, in a position to demand it! for a

moment his eye flash, and the finger of his right hand involuntarily

close as if grasp a weapon, and then many conflict thought

crowd upon he, and the eye seek the ground, and the finger

insensibly relaxed. if he provoke Lord Bellefield to meet he now, at

this particular juncture, would not it appear as if he be actuate

solely by jealousy of his more fortunate rival, as if his hopeless

passion for Annie be the cause of his animosity? this idea be

especially repugnant to he for many reason. in the first place, he

have argue himself into the belief that his resentment against Lord

Bellefield be a just and reasonable feeling, and that in punish he

for the unmanly insult he have heap upon he, he be only exact a

due penalty; it be by this subtle argument alone that he could

regard the act he contemplate as at all a justifiable one. again, he

consider that it would be completely beneath he to be jealous of

Lord Bellefield. if Annie be able to love such a character, she be

unworthy _his_ affection. lastly, although he be himself scarcely aware

of the feeling, and although a personal meeting with the object of his

hatred, a contemptuous word or insolent look, would in a moment have

conquer it, he feel a natural repugnance to take any step which

might necessitate shed a fellow-mortal’s blood. to plan a duel _à

l’outrance_ as a distant possibility be one thing, to take measure

coolly and deliberately to bring about such an event immediately be

quite another affair. so catch at the only _grey_ spot among the

blackness that surround he, he console himself with the reflection

that, as Annie would not be of age till the expiration of between two

and three year, he might during that period contrive to learn how far

her heart be likely to go with her hand in the propose alliance, and

to regulate his conduct accordingly. shape his plan for the present

in accordance with this resolve, he write sundry letter (one to General

Grant respectfully decline his present) more or less coherently, and

then go to bed in the frame of mind of one who



               “dote yet doubt, suspect yet fondly love,”



must have be singularly fortunate if he enjoy a very good night’s

sleep.



we must now take a retrospective glance at Broadhurst during the short

space that have elapse since Lewis quit it, and learn how event,

which cause he such bitter grief, have be bring about.



’tis the night of Lewis’s departure, and Annie Grant sit at her open

window gaze pensively at the moon, which moon, by the way, be at

that identical moment light the old abbey and shine on her lover’s

throbbing brow, as he stood think of she beside the ruin altar.

now Annie be by no mean in a comfortable frame of mind; in the first

place, she begin more than to suspect that she be fall deeply in

love, and in the second, “the thing she love” have not exactly “die,”

 but what be quite as inconvenient and much more inexplicable, have

suddenly “convey itself away” without tell she why or wherefore.

Lewis and Walter have of late be in the habit of spend their

evening in the drawing-room, General Grant consider that it be

desirable to accustom the latter to the form and habit of society, but

on that evening they have not make their appearance as usual; Annie have

inquire of her aunt the reason of their absence. Miss Livingstone,

look like a very vicious old owl, reply “that really _she_ be the

last person likely to know. General Grant be doubtless well inform

on the subject, but he be always strangely, and as she think, most

unnecessarily reserve; she believe Mr. Arundel have be drive to

resign his situation, and she be not at all surprised; she do not know

who that could avoid it would reside in a family order about like a

regiment of dragoon; she dare say Lord Bellefield have some break-down

blackleg ready to recommend as tutor to teach Walter gambling and

horse-racing. would Annie oblige she by look under the sofa? she

think she see the shadow of a man’s foot against the chimney-piece;

she expect they should all be murder in their bed of a night, now

the only person able to defend they be drive away. would Annie oblige

she by ring the bell? she wish to ascertain whether Robert have

remember to load the percussion cap of his blunderbuss.” foil in

this quarter, Annie wait till Lord Bellefield be so obliging as to

stroll out in pursuit of a cigar, “smoke under difficulty” be one

of his most severe trial during a visit at Broadhurst. when he be go

she attack her father with a direct inquiry as to what have become of

Walter and Mr. Arundel?



“Walter be in his own study, Mr. Arundel be absent,” be the reply.



“Absent,” return Annie; “why, where be he go, papa?”



“I do not inquire Mr. Arundel’s intended route, my dear; his age and

character render he fully competent to regulate his own movement,” be

the stiff response.



Annie’s lip curl: “able to regulate his own movement!” she think

he fit to rule a universe.



“when be he come back, papa?”



“a--ahem! not at present, my dear; that is, in fact, you may consider

his absence as permanent. the reason for his departure which he

impart to I lead I to this conclusion.”



“there, I tell you so--I say he have be send away,” observe Minerva

snappishly.



“Madam, you have be misinform,” interpose the General with much

irritation; “Mr. Arundel have not be send away, he resign his

position as tutor to my ward of his own free will, for reason which I

consider good and sufficient.”



“and what be these wonderful reason, if one might make so bold as to

ask without have one’s nose snap off one’s face?” inquire Minerva,

curiosity and crossness combine overcome her habitual fear of she

august nephew-in-law.



“A--really I be not accustomed to be cross-question in this way.

A--you, madam, strangely forget our relative pos----; however, I may

as well mention once for all that I have Mr. Arundel’s authority

for state that his reason for quit Broadhurst be purely of a

personal nature. and now I beg this subject may not be allude to again;

I be the last person who should be accuse of drive he out of

the family;” and have by this time work himself up into a very

considerable passion, in which frame of mind he be, like most other of

his fellow-mortal, particularly unreasonable and incautious, he glance

furiously at poor innocent Annie and stride out of the room like an

offend autocrat, as he be.



and this agreeable little scene form the subject of Annie’s reverie,

as, with her golden hair hang like a veil around she, she watch

the moonbeam sleep on the velvet turf. why have Lewis leave they so

suddenly?--why, if her father know the reason, do he refuse to reveal

it; and still more strange, why should Lewis so scrupulously have

conceal it from she? then again, her father have appear angry with

she--could he suppose _she_ have have anything to do with the young

tutor’s departure? and then an idea strike she which even there, alone,

beneath the silent night, cause her face and neck to become suffuse

by a burn blush--could it be possible that she have betray herself,

that Lewis have discover her affection for he? and then she blush

yet more deeply at the plain word in which she have for the first time

express, even to herself, her heart’s secret yearning. the idea be

painful in the high degree to a mind of such child-like purity as

Annie’s, and yet the more she think of it the more probable do it

appear; it would account for everything that perplex she. if she

really have be so madly imprudent, so utterly deficient in maidenly

reserve, as to allow Lewis to perceive the depth of her regard for he,

his honourable feeling would instantly oblige he to leave the family,

and no doubt her father’s cross-questioning have in some degree elicit

from he the truth. oh! what deep humiliation--regard it in whatever

light she would, what bitter, endless misery! lewis’s calm manner,

his gentle, unimpassioned kindness, his late avoidance of her society,

since--distract thought--since he have begin to perceive her regard,

his stern resolve, so soon act upon, to quit the family, all prove

that her affection be not return. cruel degradation, to love a man

who be indifferent to she, and to have allow he to perceive it.

Annie possess a spice of her father’s haughty disposition, though in

general the many essentially feminine point of her character prevent

it from appear; but this be an occasion which call forth every

particle of pride in her nature. what could she do to remove the stain

(for such in her morbid self-reproach do she consider it) from she?

nothing! would to heaven she could lie down and die! her father, too,

evidently suspect the truth; Lord Bellefield would probably be the

next person to become acquainted with the disgraceful history--and with

the recollection of her cousin’s name a new idea flash across she.

yes, there be a way of escape--a method of silence every busy tongue!

but at what a sacrifice! could she bring herself to consent to marry

Lord Bellefield her object would be at once attain. no, she feel it

be impossible. but then, on the other hand, could she bear to labour

under the suspicion of loving, without return (there be the bitter

sting!), a man beneath she in station?--(she could remember this

difference now, when it would only add to her self-torment). well,

fortunately, she be not call on to decide the question at once;

she would think more upon the matter: at all event, there be the

possibility to fall back upon as a last resource. then her thought

revert to Lewis, the brave, the true, the noble-hearted! she should

never see he again; he would achieve greatness--(she feel as sure

of _that_ as if she have hold in her hand the “Gazette” announce his

acceptance of the Premiership)--and some other would share it with

he, while she should be the wife----the alternative be too hateful to

contemplate, so she substitute, in her grave. yes, she should never

see he again! and she recall his image, as on that summer day he have

approach the window to summon she to the german lesson, when, as she

read of Max Piccolomini, she have realise his appearance in the dark,

proud beauty of he who sit beside she. she remember his joyous,

animate look as he bound across the lawn, his glow cheek, his

bright, sparkle eye, the wave masse of his raven hair, and his

eager, happy smile as his glance meet her! two idea engross she: he

do not love she--she should never see he again; and forget she

pride, her woman’s dignity, even her self-upbraid, in the intensity

of her sorrow, the poor child fling herself on her bed in an agony of

tear, and pour forth the bitter desolation of a lonely, break

heart.



the next morning she plead a headache (a heart-ache would have be

nearer the truth) as an excuse for breakfast in her room, and do not

make her appearance till it be nearly luncheon time. during that meal

the General be unusually dictatorial, not to say fractious, and more

than once speak so harshly to Annie that she have some difficulty

in repress her tear. the meal be above half conclude ere Lord

Bellefield, who excuse himself by say he have have some important

letter to write, make his appearance. when at last he join they,

he do so apparently in the most amiable frame of mind; he receive

a reprimand from the General for his want of punctuality with a

good-humour smile, and introduce a carefully veil compliment into

his apology, which greatly tend to soften that gallant veteran’s

ill-temper; he interpose with skilful kindness to avert sundry crab

attack, aim by Miss Livingstone at poor Annie, and introduce

some interesting topic which draw out the elder, and give a new

and agreeable turn to the conversation; he sympathise with Annie’s

headache, for which he invent an equally opportune, plausible, and

false excuse, and, in short, he lay himself out to fascinate, and

succeed _à merveille_. Annie feel really grateful to he, for he

have come to her rescue at a moment in which kindness and sympathy be

peculiarly acceptable to she.



when luncheon be conclude the General request his daughter’s

presence in the library. Poor Annie rise to obey he. a strange, wild

idea seize she, that he might be go to refer to Lewis’s departure,

perhaps to upbraid she for her share in cause it; and she tremble so

violently that her knee almost refuse to support she: in a moment Lord

Bellefield be at her side.



“take my arm,” he say kindly; “the effect of your headache have

scarcely pass away even yet.” Annie accept his arm in grateful

silence, and in her guileless gentleness of heart accuse herself of

never before having do proper justice to her cousin’s kindly nature.

as they approach the library he detain she.



“Dear Annie,” he say, “it would be affectation on my part to pretend

ignorance of the subject on which your father be about to converse with

you. the General appear for some cause, which I be unable to divine,

especially irritable this morning: do not needlessly oppose he; and

should he chance to urge my cause urgently, remember, dear one, how

entirely my future happiness be involve in your decision.” as he cease

speak he open the library door without give she an opportunity

to reply, then, lead she in, press her hand, cast towards her an

appealing glance, and turning, quit the room. Lord Bellefield be a

good tactician: for the first time the idea cross Annie’s mind, “he

love I then,” and contrast his devotion with Lewis’s suppose

indifference, she pity he. could she have see his change of

countenance as the door close upon he she would scarcely have do so;

his look be that of some fiend who have compass the destruction of a

human soul, the personification of triumphant malevolence.



the General begin his harangue: he inform Annie that she be no long

a child, and so far he be right; but he do not add, as he might have

do, have he be as well acquainted with the working of her mind as we

happen to be, that the last twenty-four hour have perform the work of

year to effect the change from the thoughtless child to the thinking,

feel woman, for the first time cognisant of those fearful reality,

_life_ and _love!_ but if the worthy General say nothing of love, he

soon discourse at great length of (we be about thoughtlessly to add)

its usual _termination_, marriage; which institution he look upon

solely in a military point of view--viz., as a solemn alliance between

two power for their mutual benefit. having give his oratorical power

a good breathing canter around (as he attempt to depict they) the

flowery mead of matrimony, he gradually narrow his circle till he be

amble about his daughter’s propose union with Lord Bellefield, and

having by this time pretty well exhaust his eloquence, he dash at

once _in médias re_ by inquire whether she know any just cause or

impediment wherefore the engagement, break off by he on the ground of

her cousin’s falsely suppose misconduct, should not there and then be

renew, with a view, at the fitting time, i.e., as soon as she should

attain the age of twenty-one, to their become man and wife. to this

Annie reply with down-cast look and many blush, that if her father

have no objection, she have make up her mind to live and die an old

maid--she be go to add, like Aunt Martha, but, on second thought,

doubt whether the association of idea be likely to aid her cause,

she repress the simile. to this the General merely say “Pish!” and

take snuff contemptuously: so Annie try another tack.



“if ever,” she observe, “she be to marry, it must be a great many

year hence; she be such a careless, silly little thing, not at all

fit to manage a family. do not papa remember when she go with he and

Charles Leicester on their grouse-shoot expedition, and their cottage

be fifteen mile from everywhere, how she forget to take any tea or

sugar, and they be oblige to drink whisky-and-water for breakfast for

nearly a week?”



but to this papa turn a deaf ear, and show such unequivocal sign of

be about to get into a rage, that Annie in despair fall back upon she

last argument, which be that, although her cousin Bellefield be very

kind to she, and she have always look upon he and Charles Leicester

as her brother, yet she do not like he well enough to wish to marry

him,--“she be sure it be wicked to marry any one unless you love he

well--than anybody else,” she be go to say, but she change it

to, “than she love Adolphus.” thereupon the General’s anger, scarcely

hitherto control, burst forth, and he inform she, with great

volubility, that she have speak the truth when she have call herself

silly; for that her whole argument be so childish and absurd that he

be perfectly ashamed of it and of she; and that if she choose to talk

and act so childishly, she must expect to be treat as a child,

and submit to the decision of those who be old and wise than

herself--that he would give she five minute to reconsider the matter;

and if she then refuse to consent to a renewal of the engagement, he

should begin to fear that she must have have some unworthy reason for

such continued obstinacy. and as he utter the last cruel word he

fix his little sharp eye upon she as if he be try to look she

through and through. for a moment his reproach rouse somewhat of his

own spirit in his daughter; and draw herself up proudly, the girl

confront he with flash eye and heaving bosom, and then, poor

child! the consciousness of her secret attachment rush upon she, and

with stream eye she throw herself at his foot, exclaim, “I be

very foolish--very wicked. dearest papa, forgive I, and I will do

whatever you wish!”



and thus it come about that the engagement with Lord Bellefield be so

speedily renew.









CHAPTER LII.--VINDICATES the aphorism that “’TIS an ILL WIND which

blows no one any good.”



Richard Frere sit at his breakfast-table; before he stand an egg

untasted, which, having once be hot, be so no long, whilst a cup of

coffee, that have undergo the same refrigerating process, throw out its

fragrance unregarde. in his hand be an open letter: we will take the

liberty of peep over his shoulder and make our reader acquaint

with its content. they run thus:--



“Dear Frere,--I have quit Broadhurst for ever, and break off all

connection between General Grant and myself. _why_ I have do this I

cannot at present tell you; year hence, when time shall have sear

wound which now blee at the slight touch of memory, you shall

know all. I have suffer, and must suffer, much; but suffering appear

identical with existence--at least, in this present phase of be. I be

ill in mind and body; the restless spirit within be at length beginning

to tell upon even my iron constitution. the mind must have rest if I

would continue sane, the body must be brace by exertion if I wish not

to degenerate into a mere nervous hypochondriac. accordingly, when you

receive this letter I shall have quit England. my project--if such

vague idea as mine deserve the title--embrace a walk tour through

Europe, which may possibly be extend to Syria and Persia, should my

object not be previously attain. at my banker’s lie the sum of £500,

the wage (minus the little my travel expense will require) of my

two year’ slavery; before that be exhausted fresh fund will be place

at the disposal of my mother and sister, or I shall be dead; in either

case I leave my family as a sacred deposit to your care. dear old Frere,

do not judge I harshly. I be not (if I know my own motive) act

with selfish rashness in this matter. my whole being, intellectual and

physical, have receive a fearful shock, and the course I propose to

pursue appear to offer the only chance of a restoration to a healthy

frame of mind. I could not do this do I not know that in you my mother

and Rose will find a more efficient protector than the one they will

lose for a season; I could not do this do I not love you so well as to

have perfect faith in your friendship in the very high sense of the

word. enough on this head--we _know_ each other. in the unlikely event

of pecuniary difficulty arise, apply to Mr. Coke, the solicitor,

in Lincoln’s Inn. he have my direction also in case of any accident

befall I, and from time to time he will be inform of my

whereabouts, as for at least the next year I shall not write to any of

you--it be my wish to forget that such a country as England exist. I

enclose a note for poor Rose: may I ask you to deliver it in person, and

break this matter to she and my mother? as yet they be not even aware

that I have quit Broadhurst. God bless you, and good-bye for----;

but we will not pry into the future--‘sufficient for the day be the evil

thereof:’



“your ever, Lewis Arundel.”



this letter Frere read carefully through; having do so, he ejaculate

“well!” in a tone of the utmost astonishment; then push his hair back

from his forehead, as if he seek to give his intellectual power

free play, he steadily reperuse it, but apparently with little well

success, for when he have a second time arrive at the signature, he

gaze round the room with an expression of the most intense perplexity,

exclaim, “I never read such a letter, _never!_”



spread the paper before he, he carefully turn up his wristband,

seize a silver butter-knife, which in his abstraction he conceive to

be a pen, feel the point to see if it would write, dip it into the

milk by way of ink, and thus prepare, again attack the mysterious

document sentence by sentence, keep up during this third reading a

running fire of comment somewhat after the follow fashion--



“Hum! well! he’s leave Broadhurst for ever, etc., etc., and he cann’t tell

I why now, but will year hence--when he have forget all the minute

particular which would make the affair intelligible, I suppose;

sensible, very. throw away three hundred pound a year, with a mother

and sister depend upon he, and ‘no future prospect,’ as they say

in all the ‘shocking destitution’ advertisement. oh, wise young

judge! well, never mind. ‘seared wound--existence identical with

suffering--restless spirit affect iron constitution’--_cum multis

allis_, etc. now, all that clone into plain English mean that he have

get into a rampant state of mind about something, which, interfere

with the gastric juice and all the other corporeal chemical, have put

his digestion out of sort; _ergo_, in order to repair damage he

have start on a continental walking-tour: might have do bad; the

exercise will settle the dyspepsia in double-quick time; I’m doctor

enough to know that. then he leave five hundred pound to support one

mother and sister till further notice, or till I receive intelligence

of his untimely decease. in the meantime he very obligingly commit

the live stock aforesaid to my care, as a sacred deposit; thus, without

be allow as much as even a voice in the matter, I suddenly find

myself _plus_ a mother and sister--more peculiar than pleasant, eh?

well, never mind. then he assert the truism that he could not do this

without faith in my friendship, mention the unnecessary fact that we

know each other Next come a very funny idea: if the money run short,

I’m to apply to a _lawyer_ of all people in the world. now, in my

innocence I should have fancy just the reverse, and that if we have

be burden with more cash than we know what to do with, the lawyer

would have be the boy to help we through the difficulty! well, one

live and learn--what have we next? oh! my young friend wish to

forget the existence of--England! nothing more--wish to forget the

existence of his own glorious country! the boy’s as mad as a March hare.

then he very coolly hand over to I the pleasant task of break

the news of his most uncomfortable conduct to his leave-off mother and

sister; and for the prospective performance of all this toil and trouble

he benevolently bless I, and adduce a text of Scripture, which

apply much more to my case than to his own, conclude.



“well, I should just like anybody to explain to I the meaning of that

letter; for as to make out either what he have do, or what he be

go to do, from that document, I’d defy Odipus himself to accomplish

it. now, let I see what be the first article in my little list of

commission: enlighten our mother and sister, I suppose; and a very

hazy style of illumination I expect it will be, unless sister’s note.

should happen to throw some brightness on the matter. ‘poor rose!’ he

may well say poor! why, she dote on he--actually dote on he. I’d

give anything in the world to have she--that be, to have a sister love

I as that girl love he. I know she will be miserable; I’m certain of

it;” and stick the butter-knife behind his ear, a place in which he

still retain the school-boy habit of put his pen, Frere rise from

his seat, and resume his soliloquy, begin to pace the room with hasty

stride.



“what can have induce the boy to throw up his appointment in this

insane fashion I cann’t conceive. if it be any one else, I should fancy

he have misconduct himself, and that the rhapsodical letter be merely

an excuse for avoid a plain statement of a disgraceful truth; but

there’s something about Lewis Arundel which make one certain he’d never

commit a small sin or conceal a large one. if he have murder that scamp

Bellefield in a duel, he would have mention it directly. perhaps old

Grant have insult his dignity; _arcades ambo_, they’re a peppery pair;

‘high stomach be they both, and full of ire.’ the eld gentleman have

a double claim, literal and metaphorical, to the quotation, if I

remember his build rightly. Poor Lewis! I expect he be in a dreadful

state of mind; I should feel very sorry for he if I be not so angry

with he for bother Rose in this way. well, I must think about

start; no science shop for I to-day, or to-morrow either. by the

bye, I must ring for Jemima, and enlighten she as to my movement, and

she’ll be as cantankerous as a bilious crocodile, I expect. however, it

must be do, so here go;” and give the bell a very modest pull, he

drop into his reading-chair await the arrival of his acidulate

domestic with a singularly mild, not to say timid expression of

countenance.



“oh, Jemima, I ring--that be to say, the bell ring--to tell you I be

oblige to go out of town to-day, and shall not return till tomorrow

evening at the early,” begin Frere in an apologetic tone of voice,

as his ancient duenna, puff and blow from the ascent of the

staircase, enter.



as he speak, the positively cross expression of her antique feature

advance a degree, and become comparatively crosser as she reply with

a toss of the head--



“well, I’m sure! what next, I wonder!” then address her master in

a tone of wither contempt, she continue: “do you know what it be

you’re a sayin’ of, Master Richard?”



“well, I believe I do,” return frere humbly.



“I believe you don’t,” be the unceremonious rejoinder. “I believe you

go on read they foreign book in heathen Greek till you don’t know

what you’re a saying or a doing of; here you tell I one thing one day,

and something diametrically contradictious of it the next, till old

Nick his blessed self wouldn’t know how to act to please you!”



“why, what have I say contradictious, as you call it?” inquire Frere.



“what have you say?” repeat Jemima in a tone of intense disgust; “why

you’ve tell I to get ready a dinner for six this here very day, and

now you say you’re a go out of town, and willn’t be back till to-morrow

night. do you call that behave as a master of a house ought to do, let

alone a sanatory Christian?”



“a true bill, by all that’s unlucky!” mutter Frere.



“it’s a true bill that you’ll have to pay for as fine a couple of

chicken as ever be truss, which be now cast away before swine,

for as to ’em keep till the day after to-morrow, it’s a model

impossibilitude.”



“I should rather have think a physical one,” suggest Frere _sotto

voce_.



“then there’s a tongue,” continue Jemima, unheede the interruption,

“as beautiful a one as ever I set my two eye on.”



“I wonder if it’s as long as her own,” observe frere, speculatively

pursue the under-current of his private annotation.



“a tongue that with care and good carving would have last you for

breakfast for a fortnight.”



“then it would not have go by any mean as fast as a certain unruly

member with which I be acquaint,” continue the commentator.



“together with a lovely turbot, which I almost have to go down on my

bended knee to get out of the fishmonger--turbot be like pearl

of price at this time of year, with three dozen of native, which be

astonish not to be able to procure, so be force to put up with

lobster sauce instead, and a beauty it be now, though it will be _non

compo scenlis_ by the day after to-morrow, and fit only to make people

sick in the dusthole, where it’s a sin to let it go, with so many

poor starve creature a-want it, which be not the case when your

blessed mother be upon the face of the earth, in a violent satin gownd,

a set you moral copy ‘a woeful waist make wilful want,’ and ‘my

name be Norval, on the Grumpy Hills,’ which ought to have teach you

well than to have ask five gent to come here, look like fool,

and yourself the sixth, go out of town, leave I to tell ’em so,

with the house full of good thing all turn bad, and nobody but I

to eat ’em, which be a hard trial for an aged woman, that, take

you from the month, ought to be respect, if grey hair be honourable,

which they don’t seem to be nowadays, when we have get a bad lot of

wig over our head, with half of ’em nothing in ’em but crimp

horsehair, I do believe.”



here the worthy woman’s breath fail she, Frere be at length able to

get in a word or two.



“my good Jemima,” he begin blandly, “listen to I. when I invite my

friend and order a dinner, I be of course not aware that I should

be suddenly call upon to leave town; such be the case, however,

we must make the good of it. I will, therefore, despatch note to the

gentleman who be to have be my guest, put they off; and in

regard to the comestible, such as from their animal fabric require

cooking must be cook, and we must endeavour to consume they in detail

at--at our early convenience. now have I slain your Hydra, my good

Jemima?”



“I don’t understand your gibberish, Master Richard, nor don’t want

to. my poor dear mistress, which piously depart this moral life in a

mahogany coffin and silver nail, don’t use to talk so, though she’d

be bring up at boarding-school with the good of pastor and master

to honour and obey; but this I know, that the blessed dinner will go to

rack and ruin in spite of all your cook retail combustible, and

that put I in mind, what have you be do with your breakfast? why,

goodness gracious! he’s never touch a bit of it, and” (here she catch

sight of the butter-knife), “oh lor, oh lor! if he ain’t go clean

demented. what’s the matter?” she continue, as Frere, astonish at her

unusual vehemence, seek to learn the cause of her disquietude; “what’s

the matter, indeed? look in the glass, and if you’re fit for any place

but Bedlam you’ll soon see what’s the matter.”



thus apostrophise, Frere turn his eye in the unwonted direction of

the chimney-glass, and there descry the butter-knife behind his ear,

be somewhat disconcert; and mutter that it must have get there by

accident, of its own accord, instead of a pen, he feel that his position

be quite untenable, and so, retreat ignominiously to the stronghold

of his own bedroom, he busy himself in preparation for his departure,

actually go the length of shave himself and put on a decent

suit of clothe. another half-hour see he on the road to----.



it be on the afternoon of the same day that Rose Arundel sit at the

window of their little drawing-room sketch the tower of an old

church, which peep prettily from amid a luxuriant group of giant elm.

Mrs. Arundel have go in a friend’s carriage to execute a host of minor

commission at a neighbouring town, and Rose, having write part of

her quota for the next month’s magazine, be reward her industry

by endeavour to catch a peculiar effect of sunlight on the tower

aforesaid. having work with brush and pencil for some minute, she

pause to criticise her drawing. it be a faithful copy of the landscape

before she nicely execute, but she shake her head in dissatisfaction.



“it be laboured and tame,” she say; “half-a-dozen touch from Lewis’s

pencil would have give the effect twice as well. what a strange thing

be the power of genius, the hand create at a stroke the brilliant

conception of the mind!” and then she draw out some of her brother’s

sketch in Germany: bold, free, spirited, and mark by refine,

severe taste, skilled alike to select the telling point and reject the

commonplace detail, save where such detail be require to assist in

carry out the lead idea, they all bear indisputable evidence of a

true artist-mind.



from the sketch Rose grow to think of he who have trace they. she

have not hear from Lewis for quite three week; his last letter have

indicate a mind ill at ease, and Rose have write to he to entreat

he to confide in she, if, as she fear, he be unhappy. why do he

not reply to her letter? answer her question with a sigh, she

turn again, pencil in hand, to the window, and perceive a gentleman

advance rapidly along the road lead to their cottage. for a moment

her pulse beat quickly: could it be her brother? but Lewis’s be a

figure not easily to be mistake, and a second glance convince she she

be wrong; and then she give a little start, and a bright blush make she

look so pretty that it be quite a shame nobody be there to see she;

have there be, perhaps she would not have turn to the glass, and

still blush and smile, smooth the glossy band of her rich brown

hair. why she perform this ceremony at this particular moment we leave

our female reader to discover, and having do so, of their courtesy to

enlighten we. then, like a puritanical little hypocrite as she be, she

reseat herself at her drawing-table, sketch away as zealously as

if the result of _fixature_ and _bandcline_ have be as little know to

the philosophy of the nineteenth century as be the secret of alchemy.



in another minute the full, rich tone of a man’s voice be hear,

bear down the shrill expostulation of Rachel--



“never mind about your mistress, young woman; where’s Miss Rose?”



“Upstairs, sir; but----”



“there, that’ll do, ‘but I no but;’ let I get by; which be the

door?--here we be.”



and as he utter the last word, Frere, tired and dusty, with a carpet

bag and a parcel of book in one hand, and his hat and _the_ umbrella in

the other, enter the little drawing-room. Rose advance to receive he

with a bright smile.



“this be an unexpected pleasure, Mr. Frere,” she say, extend she

hand. Frere shake it heartily, squeeze it in the process much hard

than be agreeable.



“why, how prett--a--I mean to say how well you be look,” he begin.

“country air suit you well than the pea-soup-colour atmosphere of

London.”



so unable do he appear to remove his eye from her face, that, in

spite of her good endeavour, the become blush again overspread her

feature; turn away as if for the purpose of arrange her drawing

material, she observed--



“Mamma be take a drive with a friend; I’m afraid she willn’t return just

yet.”



“so much the well,” begin Frere; then perceive the rudeness of the

remark, he continue, “what I mean be that I want to talk to you about

a letter I’ve receive from Lewis, and I can get on well with you than

with mamma, I expect. you and I understand each other, you see; now

Mrs. Arundel think I’m a bear or thereabout, and fit for nothing but

growl and bite.”



“perhaps I think the same,” remark Rose, smile at this unexpected

proof of his penetration; “but you speak of a letter from Lewis; I’m so

glad he have write to you, for it’s three week since I’ve hear from

he. you be look grave,” she add hurriedly; then become suddenly

alarm, she continue: “something have happen to he, and you have

come to break it to we--be it not so?”



Frere regard she with a good-natured smile, half laugh at, half

pity she; then hold up his finger, as if he be rebuke an

impetuous child, he said--



“how thoroughly woman-like and unreasonable, jump to a conclusion

without any sufficient datum to go upon; select the most dolorous

hypothesis imaginable, and then prepare to afflict yourself at sight

of the phantom your own fancy have conjure up; now,” he continue,

take her hand and half lead, half urge she to the sofa--“sit

down, listen quietly to what I have to tell you--think the matter over

with your usual good sense--and then we’ll consult together as to the

good course to pursue; and if anything useful and expedient can be

devised, rely upon I to execute it.”



Pale and trembling, but in every other respect collect, Rose obey.

as soon as she be seat Frere place himself by her side, and draw

out Lewis’s letter, said--



“your brother have leave Broadhurst and throw up his tutorship; his

reason for so do he have not explain to I; but as he evidently

write in a state of considerable mental agitation, that may account for

the omission. moreover, he promise to tell I all at some future time:

he send also a note for you, which may perhaps throw more light upon

the matter. here it be.”



so say, he produce the enclosure, and break the seal, hand it

to Rose. it run as follows:--



“do not fancy I unkind, dearest Rose, or insensible to the blessing

(almost the only one now leave I) of your affection, when at this

miserable crisis of my fate I deny myself the consolation of your

sympathy: I say, deny myself, for wretched as I be, tear as be my soul

by the black unbelief in the existence of human truth and goodness, I

yet know you to be good and true, and love you more entirely than I have

ever do. Frere will tell you that I be even now, as you read these

word, upon a foreign soil; the length of my self-impose exile be

as yet unfixed, but many month must elapse ere I shall again visit

England. have I come to you, I could not have withhold my confidence;

your sympathy would have utterly unmanned I; I should have lose the

little strength and self-reliance remain to I, and have totally

succumb to the blow that have fall upon I. Rose, love, at time I

fancy, when you be stay in Park Crescent, that you divine my

secret! the struggle be then go on, and I dream in my folly that

self-conquest be attainable; thus madly have I accomplish the ruin of

my happiness. I have quit Broad-hurst by my own act--flee to preserve

my honour; that and an ache heart be all that remain to I. I trust

to you and Frere to communicate this matter to my mother: of course,

should you from my broken hint divine the truth, you would never dream

of impart it to she; a thousand reason forbid it. in regard to

Frere, I leave you to judge; he be trustworthy as yourself. if he smile

at my folly in love so poor a thing as he hold woman to be, his kind

heart will sympathise with my wretchedness, even if my own weakness

have produce it. I have entrust he to pay my mother the usual yearly

allowance, and place fund at his disposal to enable he to do so.

while I live, she and you shall never know great poverty than you

endure at present. I go to regain, in foreign travel, the vigour of

mind and body which this blow have well-nigh paralyse. thank God in your

prayer that he have spare my reason, and leave I strength to make this

effort: may he watch over you both! in all difficulty apply to Richard

Frere. good-bye, dearest; forgive I the sorrow I occasion you; it seem

as though I be fate alike to suffer myself and to cause suffering to

all I love.--Yours ever affectionately, Lewis.”



Rose peruse her brother’s letter eagerly; as she proceed her bright

eye fill with tear. Frere wait until she have conclude, and then,

without speak, hand she the epistle he himself have receive. when

she have also finish this, he inquire, “well, what do you make of

it--anything?”



Rose turn away her head, and dry her eye, reply with a deep

sigh, “poor fellow, it be only too clear!”



“that’s just about the very last remark now that I should have expect

any one to utter, after having read that letter. what a thing it be to

be clever!” observe Frere.



without notice his observation, Rose place in his hand Lewis’s letter

to herself. frere read it with a gradually elongate countenance merely

pause to mutter, “much he know about my opinion of woman.”



having finish it, he refolde it carefully, and hand it back to

Rose, begin, “this enlighten we in some degree as to the matter; Lewis

have, it seem, fall in love as they call it, disastrously, with some

party unknown.”



“oh, you cannot doubt to whom he refer,” exclaim Rose earnestly. “it

be this to which my fear have point ever since I first behold she;

throw into constant communication with such a creature, one fitted----”



“why you don’t mean to say he’s fall in love with Miss Livingstone?”

 interrupt frere, look the very picture of astonishment.



“this be scarcely a subject on which it be kind to jest, Mr. Frere,”

 rejoin Rose almost sternly; “of course I refer to that gentle, lovely,

fascinating Annie Grant.”



“I do assure you I be perfectly serious,” return frere hastily. “I

wouldn’t joke about anything that make you unhappy, if my life depend

upon it; but I never dream of its be Annie Grant; why, she’s

engage to her unpleasant cousin, Lord Bellefield.”



“I think the engagement be break off,” observe Rose.



“ay, but it’s on again,” resume Frere. “I meet a man yesterday who be

one of Bellefield’s intimate, and he tell I that his lordship be

stay at Broadhurst--that he have make up his feud with the General,

and that the engagement have be, formally renew.”



“now, then, I see it all,” exclaim Rose. “Poor Lewis have be long

struggle against a deep attachment for that sweet Annie, whom none

could know without love; nourishing, perhaps half-unconsciously, a

secret hope that she be not wholly indifferent to he--a hope which to

an honourable mind like his must have bring more pain than pleasure.

and now this renewal of the engagement must have prove to he how

entirely he be mistaken; and unable to witness his rival’s triumph, he

have, as he tell I, flee the spot where each kind word from Annie, and

every haughty glance from Lord Bellefield, would have be like a dagger

to his heart. no wonder the mental conflict have nearly madden he--my

poor, poor Lewis!”



preoccupy by her sympathy for her brother’s sorrow, Rose do not

observe the effect her word have produce upon Frere; nor be it till he

speak in a low, deep voice, which tremble with suppress feeling, that

she observe his emotion.



“ay,” he say, more as if commune with his own spirit than as though

he be address she, “ay, it must be a hard thing to love with all

the depth of such a passionate nature as Lewis’s one who be indifferent

to he; but it be a more bitter thing still to see the long year

glide by, and to pass from boyhood to youth, from youth to manhood,

and to find middle age steal quickly upon you, and never to have have

any human be to love you--never to have find any heart on which you

might pour out those rich of affection which every generous nature

pant to bestow.” he pause--then, as the recollection he have excite

seem to crowd upon he, continue, “oh, the bitter tear I have shed

when, scarcely more than a child, I have weep to hear other boy tell

of happy home, and a mother’s love, and the affection of brother and

sister; then come the silent but more enduring sorrow of youth, when

tear can no long form a vent for the heart’s isolation, and the

restless spirit prey upon itself; and last, the struggle of maturer

manhood, which in its meridian strength contend against the sorrow of

its weak morning, and strive to live down the fruitless longing for

that affection which it cannot attain, and conquer all but the one

abide grief, remain to own itself still lonely-hearted, and see its

only hope of comfort in the grave. ay, this be grief which the help of

God alone can enable one to endure.”



the deep feeling, the simple, manly pathos with which he speak be more

than Rose or any true woman could hear unmove. lay her hand on his

to attract his attention, she say in a sweet, gentle voice, “indeed,

Mr. Frere, you do your friend injustice. Lewis love you as a brother;

my dear father have the warm affection for you, and often say that

if Lewis do but resemble you, if he prove as high-principle, as

kind-hearted, and as persevere, his dearest wish would be fulfil:

even I myself----” she pause, glance timidly at her companion; but

as he remain with his hand press upon his brow, apparently bury in

abstraction, she gather courage, and continued--



“even I feel that in you God have give I a second brother, and that I

should be most ungrateful, most unworthy such disintereste kindness

as you have invariably show I, do I not feel the warm esteem

and--and--gratitude----”



and here, suddenly become aware that Frere’s beautiful eye be fix

upon she with the same peculiar expression of delight which she have once

before observe in they, on the occasion of his tell she how he have

convince Rasper the irascible of the evil of duelling, poor Rose’s

eloquence fail she, and she become abruptly silent. frere pause for a

moment, and then with a forced calmness which scarcely veil the depth

of his emotion, said--



“Dear Rose, forgive I if I be about to cause you pain; but your

kindness have afford I a vision of such exquisite happiness that it

would be a source of endless self-reproach to I if through any reserve

on my part I fail to realise it. Rose, you cannot be my sister,

but you can, if you will, hold a far dearer title--you can become my

honoured wife. I have love you long, although it be my sorrow at your

departure from London which first open my eye to the nature of my

feeling. since then my sense of my own unworthiness to aspire to the

joy of possess such an angel have alone keep I silent. Rose, I know

my own presumption in thus address you; I be aware only too

painfully of my own uncouthness, my deficiency in all the polish

conventionality of life; but if the deep, tender devotion of

a heart which have pine through a lifetime for some object on which to

pour forth its treasure of love can make you happy; if you think that in

time you could in some degree return my affection----”



“oh, hush, hush!” interrupt Rose, in a break, falter voice; “I

cannot bear to hear you speak thus! if, good and noble as you be, my

love can indeed make you happier-”



she could not conclude her sentence, but Frere seem perfectly

satisfied with the fragment as it stand.



the result of the interview may well be gather from the follow

remark of Mrs. Arundel, who, return home about an hour after the

occurrence of the conversation above relate, declare that when she

come in “she find to her horror and astonishment _Ursa Major_ look

as if he would like to hug Rose, and, stranger still, Rose appear

rather flatter by the attention than otherwise.”









chapter LIII.--DEPICTS the married life of CHARLEY LEICESTER.



we must now request our reader to draw on the seven-league boot of

their imagination, and, thus accoutre, to stride remorselessly over

the space of two year. ’tis soon do; a slight mental effort, an

agile hop, skip, and jump of the fancy, and the gulf be pass--time be

annihilate. let we raise the curtain and mark the change the destroyer

have work. the world go round much the same as before; two

year make little difference in the personal appearance of the

fifty-eight-century-old planet--no lack of birth, death, and

marriage to regulate the average supply of the human race; if the

cholera create a deficiency one year, more poor curate marry, and

starve Irishmen take unto themselves wife, the next, and those

“beautiful” baby who contrive to turn out such very plain adult

multiply upon the face of the earth, and the thin rank be

replenish. and yet two year cause strange alteration when we dive

beneath the surface of society and become cognisant of the fortune

of individual: smile have give place to tear, and the grief of the

mourner have turn to joy; poor man have grow rich and rich man poor,

and the bad (with but few, very few exception to prove the rule) have

become bad, and the good advanced in righteousness; and the mass of

the half-hearted, cling yet more closely to this earth, of which they

be so enamoured, where their grave be await they, see heaven afar

off, and wish feebly, and for a short time each seventh day, that they

be good enough to reach it. thus the passenger train, with its cargo

of hope, and fear, and wish, speed along the _Railroad of Life_.



in a magnificent apartment in one of those arabian-night-like edifice,

a venetian palazzo--which, having belong to one of the great

historical family of the middle age, whose chief be, by virtue of

his position, a petty sovereign, be now let for the season to a wealthy

Englishman--lounge Charley Leicester, whose own surprise at the change

of fortune which could render such a description of he appropriate have

not even yet cease. on a sofa opposite sit his wife, on whose knee be

perch a very young gentleman, to whom we could scarcely soon have

introduce our reader, for the excellent reason that he have not make

his appearance at the Cradle Terminus of our Railroad when last we

treat of his amiable parent. the present phase of this extremely

young aristocrat be, so to speak, one of ex-babyhood; he be in the

very act of cease to be “the most beautiful creature in the world,”

 and as yet retain enough of his pristine loveliness to deserve the

epithet of a really pretty child. he exhibit in his proper person an

instance of that strange phenomenon which (why, we have either no idea,

or we hope, for the sake of morality, a _wrong_ one) always excite

such extreme astonishment in the mind of all nurse, maiden aunt,

and female acquaintance--he be decidedly like his own proper papa

and mamma. for the rest, when place on the carpet he prefer a

quadrupedal to an erect method of progression--have a strange habit of

make the rash experiment in gastronomy by put everything

wrong and dangerous into his mouth--never sit still for two minute

consecutively--would, in the same breath, laugh heartily and bewail

himself piteously, from exciting cause, which may be expect to remain

a mystery throughout all time, and confine his conversation to two

substantive and a colloquial hieroglyphic--viz., “Pap-pa,” “Mam-ma,”

 and “gib-Tarley,” which last be believe to be an infantine-english

compound of his christian name and the verb “to give,” and signify an

insatiable desire to render himself monarch of all he survey by a

process of general self-appropriation. at the moment in which we shall

introduce the reader to the party thus assemble, a servant enter

bear a packet of letter on a silver waiter, and hand they to

Leicester, withdraw.



“letter from England, by Jove!” exclaim Charles, untie the string

which encircle they.



“any for I, Charley?” inquire Laura, who in her position of wife and

mother look the prettiest little matron conceivable.



“two for I, and one for you, from Annie Grant, if I may judge by the

writing,” reply her husband, as he rise to hand it to she.



“Gib-Tarley, pap-pa! gib-Tarley,” vociferate that individual in the

prettiest of infantine treble, make insane plunge at the letter.



Laura, raise her hand above the curly pate of her acquisitive

offspring, gain possession of the interesting missive, then, hold

“Tarley” out at arm’s length, she exclaimed--



“here, take your boy, papa; he be in a troublesome humour, and I wish to

read my letter in peace.”



Leicester meekly obey, mutter as he do so, “wide-awake young

woman--know a thing or two, that mamma of your, master Tarley;” then

take the child on his knee, he continue, “now Tarley mean to be a

good boy, and sit quite still, because papa be go to be busy with the

affair of the state.”



the effect of this exhortation appear to be to excite, on the part

of the young gentleman to whom it be address, a sudden and violent

determination there and then to convert his father into an extempore

high-mettle racer, which equine transformation he strove to accomplish

by place himself astride on the paternal knee, clutch a fragile

and delicate watch-chain by way of bridle, kick the side of his

fictitious Rosinante with immense juvenile vigour, and vociferate at

the top of his small voice, “Pap-pa, gee-gee! pap-pa, gee-gee!”



[illustration: 0394]



Charley cast an appealing glance at his wife; she appear hopelessly

immerse in her letter, so resign himself to his fate, he murmur

faintly, “the thermometer stand at 750 in the shade, that’s all,” and

start at a brisk canter. the progress of the ride, however, serve

to exhilarate both horse and jockey to such a degree, that ere long a

violent game at romp be establish, which end in papa’s perch

his youthful son on his shoulder, and still influence by the equestrian

hypothesis, gallop round the room with he, and clear the sofa

at a fly leap in the course of their rapid career, to Laura’s

undisguised terror.



“there, my dear Charles, that will do; you will break the child’s neck

and your own also to a certainty if you do such wild thing. now ring

for nurse to take he, I want to talk to you about this letter.”



“Tarley,” however, by no mean approve of this arrangement, and

insist strenuously upon a prolongation of his ride, his father, who

it must be confess rather spoil he than otherwise, comply with

his demand for “Gee-gee more!” by again dash round the room with

he, and continue his headlong course till he have deposit his rider

within the august precinct of the nursery, where the precocious Ducrow,

fall under the baleful glance of an autocratic nurse, subside into a

state of infantine depression, and be hear no more.



Leicester, having return to the apartment in which he have leave his

wife, fling himself, in a state of apparent exhaustion, upon the sofa he

have lately jump over, exclaim, “that child will be the death of

I, I’m certain of it; where he can get all this dreadful energy of

character from I cann’t conceive. it must come from the Peyton side, for

I’m certain that even at his early age I have a much more clearly define

idea of the _dolce far niente_ than that unnatural little essence of

quicksilver possess. by Jove, if he should turn out as fast when he

grow up as he appear now before he have begin grow at all, it will

be an awful look out for our grey hair.”



“Nonsense, Charley, you’ve energy enough when you care to exert it; in

fact it be all your own doing, you know you delight to excite the child.

but now be sensible, and sit up and listen to I, for I really want to

consult you about this letter.”



“as to listen to you, my love, I’m only too happy to do so at all

time and season, and I’ll promise to be as sensible as be compatible

with my general mental capacity, but in regard to the sitting up, you

really must excuse I. I have a strong idea I sprain something in

jump over this sofa just now, my back or my shin, I forget the

precise spot, but I can assure you it require rest.”



“oh, you idle man,” be the laugh answer, “how incorrigible you

be!” and as Laura pronounce this condemnation she seat herself on a

footstool by her husband’s side, draw out the letter, and hand it to

he, say, “they have consent to my plan, and be come here in the

course of the next fortnight; but I do not like the tone of Annie’s

note, she must be much more really ill than I be at all aware of, and

there appear throughout a spirit of depression, which be completely

foreign to her nature--I cannot understand it.”



“I have a despatch from the General,” begin Leicester, leisurely

break the seal; “perhaps that may tend to elucidate the mystery. what

a fist the old fellow write! the letter all hold up their head as

if they be a regiment of soldier, and his signature bristle like a

stand of bayonet. oh! he ‘hope to be in Venice by Friday week, if his

daughter’s health, which have give he some little uneasiness

lately, should permit they to travel with the degree of swiftness and

punctuality which have appear to he expedient in lay out their

intend route.’ I’m very sorry dear Annie be ill; what can be the

matter with she, think you?”



“who be your other letter from?” inquire Laura, avoid his last

question.



“from Bellefield,” return Leicester, open it; “he cann’t come with

the Grants, but he’ll follow they before long. he have back the Dodona

colt for the Derby, and have get a heavy book on the race than he

like; he be hit hard at the last Newmarket meeting, and if anything

be to go wrong with the colt, and he not on the spot to hedge on the

first hint, the consequence might be more unpleasant than people in

general be aware of. well! thank heaven, with all my folly, I always

contrive to keep clear of the bet-ring. I don’t like that note of

Belle’s; he’ll get into some awful scrape if he do not take care.”



“for which I shall not pity he one bit,” rejoin Laura. “bear to a

high position, gift with a princely fortune; if he choose to disgrace

the one, and squander the other by gamble with a set of blackleg,

he deserve whatever he may meet with. I hope I have not pain you,

Charley dearest,” she continue, observe a slight shade of annoyance

on her husband’s good-humour face; “but truth be truth; I cannot like

that man; I wish he be not your brother, and oh! how I wish he be

not to be the husband of our darling Annie. I say, Charley, how come

it you never fall in love with she yourself? do you know--don’t

be conceite now--I think I be very lucky to get you under the

circumstance?”



a gay laugh answer rise to the lip of Charles Leicester, and then

the memory of the empty, heartless life he have lead before his marriage,

and the deep, true happiness he have enjoy since, come across he, and

draw his wife towards he, he imprint a kiss on her smooth forehead

as he reply, “if I be, indeed, worthy of your affection, darling, it

be you alone who have render I so, for before I know you I be a mere

conceited, idle, frivolous butterfly, spoil by the world, and with

just sense enough (like most spoilt child) to despise my spoiler,

without sufficient manliness of nature to free myself from its trammel

by any unassisted effort of my own.”



what reply Laura make to this speech, if indeed she make any, we do not

feel ourselves call upon to chronicle; suffice it to say that she

do not, by word, look, or deed evince the small symptom of having

repent of her bargain. a pause ensue, which be break by Leicester,

who exclaimed--



“by Jove! I be very nearly forget all about it--what’s o’clock?”

 then draw out a small enamel watch, one of the relic of former

day of dandyism, he continue, “half-past three; there be just time. I

have procure an order to see the picture Cardinal d’Ancona be tell

you about last week.”



“oh, the two painting from Lord Byron’s ‘Giaour,’ by the young artist

about whom no one know anything, and who be say to be a genius? I’m so

glad; when shall we go?” inquire Laura.



“why, it’s a case of Hobson’s choice,” return Leicester; “for it seem

the painter be so torment by idle people come to his studio that he

have be force to lay down a rule only to admit visitor on two day in

the week, from three till five; but the oddest part of the business

be that he choose to be absent on these occasion, leave an old

attendant to play cicerone--in fact, there appear to be some kind of

mystery about the man. however, to-day be _the_ day, so the soon

we’re off the well, more especially as I must be with the Consul by

half-past four.”



“I shall be ready in less than five minute,” rejoin Laura, “so let

we prosecute this wondrous adventure by all mean--a mystery be such a

rarity in these matter-of-fact day, that even so small a one as that

of a man who prefer avoid one’s notice instead of seek to obtrude

himself upon it, be interesting.”



“when will woman cease to be curious?” soliloquised Leicester,

elongate his body in order to reach a newspaper without the trouble of

rise. another quarter of an hour see they en route.



under Leicester’s able guidance they stop at the door of a small

house at the corner of a street turn out of the square of St. Mark’s.

on present the order an old man with grey hair come forward and

usher the visitor into a room light by a skylight, beneath which

be arrange various picture, some finish, other in a less forward

state of preparation. after examine several of the small sketch,

which display unusual talent, both Leicester and his wife pause with

one accord before a large painting. the old cicerone approach they,

“that be the picture,” he say in Italian, “about which every one be

talk; it be very grand, but the companion picture be finer: the

Signore have refuse 600 guineas for the pair. they be take from your

Lord Byron’s poem, the ‘Giaour’; here be the passage, _ecco lo!_” as he

speak he point to the follow stanzas--



                   “with sabre shiver’d to the hilt,



                   yet dripping with the blood he spill;



                   yet strain’d within the sever’d hand



                   which quiver round that faithless brand;



                   his turban far behind he roll’d,



                   and cleft in twain its firm fold;



               his flow robe by falchion tear,



               and crimson as those cloud of morn



                   that, streak’d with dusky red, portend



                   the day shall have a stormy end;



                   a stain on every bush that bear



                   a fragment of his palampore,



                   his breast with wound unnumber’d riv’n,



                   his back to earth, his face to heaven,



                   Fall’n Hassan lie--his unclosed eye



                   yet lower on his enemy,



                   as if the hour that seal’d his fate



                   surviving leave his quenchless hate;



                   and o’er he bend that foe with brow



                   as dark as his that bleed below.”



the artist have indeed well represent the fearful tragedy; the

principal light in the painting fall upon the figure, and especially the

face of the prostrate Hassan, which convulse by the death agony, yet

glance with an expression of “quenchless hate” upon his destroyer. the

feature of the Giaour, owe to the position in which he stand, with

one foot plant on the breast of his fallen enemy, be not visible,

but his figure be tall and commanding, and his attitude in the high

degree expressive of triumphant power. lean against the same easel

stand the companion picture--it contain but a single figure, but it

be one which be see, it be scarcely possible to forget, such a

live embodiment do it present of hopeless despair. the stony eye, the

sink cheek, the stern yet spiritless mouth--all speak of one who

have indeed “nothing leave to love or hate,” all realise the painful

description of “the vacant bosom’s wilderness,” that paralysis of the

soul in which



               “the keen pang the wretched find



                   be rapture to the dreary void,



               the leafless desert of the mind.”



in this painting also the feature of the Giaour be partially

conceal by the hood of a monk’s frock, which throw a deep shade across

they, and the drooping, nerveless figure serve in great degree to tell

the tale. the two picture be entitle “Revenge, and its fruit.”

 Laura and her husband gaze at they long and silently; at length

Leicester observe, with the air of a man who try to dissipate a

sentiment akin to superstitious fear, by listen to the sound of

his own voice--“’Pon my word, they be very extraordinary picture;

there’s I don’t know what about they--a kind of uncomfortable

fascination--they’re very horrible, but they’re very clever, eh?”



“oh! they be most wonderful,” return Laura in a subdued voice, as if

she almost fear to trust herself to speak, “particularly the second.

I never see anything express such utter hopelessness as that face and

attitude; one feel that active pain even would be a relief to the

monotony of that dull despair. what an uncommon person the artist must

be! the execution be good, but it be the mind in the picture that be so

extraordinary.”



Leicester, who during this speech have be attentively examine the

face of the prostrate Hassan, suddenly exclaim, “yes! of course, now

I see who it be. look here, Laura, do you perceive a likeness to anybody

you know in the face of this floor individual?”



thus accost, Laura, after a moment’s scrutiny, reply, “it be like

your brother.”



“just what strike I,” return Leicester; “what a quaint coincidence!

I’ve see some one somewhere of whom the other fellow remind I too.”



“the figure bear a shadowy resemblance to the Signore Luigi himself,

Eccellenza,” observe the old attendant; “at least, I have always

think so.”



“he must be rather an alarming, sanguinary kind of personage, at that

rate; he have not flatter himself, I must say.”



“the Signore be tall and dark, but handsome as the Belvidere Apollo--he

be not sanguinary as you say, Signore, but of a gentle kindness which

touch the heart. I be bind to love he, for he save I from ruin.”



“how be that? tell I,” ask Laura in a tone of interest.



“my dear Laura, I be grieve to prevent your hear this worthy man’s

recital, but unfortunately it only want five minute of the time at

which I promise to be with the Consul.”



“how long shall you be oblige to stay with he?” inquire his wife.



“Less than half-an-hour, perhaps twenty-five minute would suffice,”

 be the reply; “shall I leave you here and come back for you before five

o’clock?”



“there be several picture the Signora have not yet examine,” suggest

the old man. thus urge, Laura consent to remain; an idea which she

would not confess even to her husband, so wild and fanciful do she feel

it to be, have take possession of she, and her curiosity in regard to

the mysterious artist have become redouble.









CHAPTER LIV.--TREATS of a metamorphosis not describe by OVID.



“you be go to tell I some anecdote,” Laura observe as Leicester

quit the studio.



the Cicerone, who be a venerable-look old man with grey hair and a

thoroughly italian cast of feature, place a chair for the lady before

a view in Venice, at which she have not yet look, and then resumed--



“_Favorisca di sedersi la prego Signora_. I be go to relate how the

Signore whom I serve generously rescue I from ruin; but to do so I

must trouble the Eccellenza with a few particular of my own history.

I be originally educate as a painter, but although I be a correct

copyist, and possess some skill in mix colour, I have not the

_afflatus_, the inexplicable, the divine gift of genius, which cannot be

acquire. look at these picture,” he continue, warm into enthusiasm

as lie point to the painting from the “Giaour”; “in my prime I could

execute well than that, my colouring be rich and smooth, my

shade less hard and abrupt, though to acquire that skill have cost I

fifteen year’ constant study; but alas! the mind be want. I could

execute but I could not conceive--my picture would never have entrance

any one as you be entrance before those great soul-creation!” he

pause, sigh deeply, then resume: “so I grow poor, I have a wife and

child to support, and I bent my pride to become a scene-painter at

the Fenice Theatre. I work there twenty long year, and then from over

use my eyesight grow dim, and they discard I. after that I be

employ by the great painter of the day, Signore B--elli, to prepare

canvas and mix colour for the young artist whom he instruct. a year

and a half ago a pupil come to study with he--he be a stranger----”



“of what country?” inquire Laura eagerly.



“I cannot inform the Signora. he speak french, german, italian,

and very rarely english, equally well, but I do not think he be a

fellow-countryman of mine. the other young artist who frequent

B--elli’s studio would often tease I for sport, but the Signore be

always kind, and would not permit they to do so when he be present. one

day a pupil, who be finish the drapery of a Madonna and Child, of

which picture all the more important part have be paint by B--elli

himself, call to I to bring he some particular colour which he

require--in my haste I stumble and overthrow a flask of oil, which

fall upon the not yet dry painting, entirely obliterate the feature

of the Madonna. irritated at the difficulty into which I have plunge

both he and myself, the student spring up and seize I by the throat;

in a moment the Signore Luigi interfere, and compress the youth’s

arm in his powerful grasp, force he to release I.



“‘remember, Carlo,’ he say gently, ‘Antonelli be an old man.’



“‘he have ruin himself and I!’ exclaim the other, clasp his hand

in despair; ‘b--elli will discharge he without doubt, and I he will

refuse to instruct any long.’



“‘perhaps there be yet an alternative,’ urge the Signore Luigi;

‘b--elli will not return till to-morrow morning; much may be do in

eighteen hour; I will strive to restore the face.’



“he immediately set to work; fortunately he paint with as much

quickness as skill. when night draw near he dismiss we; through the

long hour of darkness he labour incessantly, pause neither for

sleep nor refreshment. with the early ray of dawn I be again at the

studio: he be paint still, calm, earnest, grave, as be his willnot,

only appear a little paler than usual; but such a work of art have

grow beneath his hand, such a marvellous creation! the Madonna herself

could not have appear more lovely than be that heavenly face. it be

complete ere B--elli arrive; when he behold it he be amazed.



“what inspire hand have trace those feature?” he demand. the

history be relate to he. he once more examine the picture, then

turn to the Signore, who stand near with fold arm, gaze on the

other’s excitement with an air of cold indifference, he exclaim in a

tone of mingle admiration and rage, “go, I can teach thee no long; it

be thou shouldst be the master.”



“the Signore take he at his word. he engage these paint room,

arrange with B--elli that I should accompany he, and be now the first

painter in Italy as to talent, and when his execution be a little more

perfect--ah! _se ne saprà qualche cosa_, we shall see how man will

talk of he!”



“and the head be very lovely, be it? what style of face be it?”

 inquire Laura.



“how can I tell you? it be perfection, _vi bisognava vederla_,” be the

enthusiastic reply. “stay,” he continue, glance at the clock, which

now only want ten minute to five; “I have an idea; there be yet time,

but you must never relate that you have behold it. here, follow I;” and

draw out a key, he unlock a door lead into a small apartment,

comfortably though simply furnish, and fit up with bookshelf

somewhat after the fashion of an english study. “_Ecco!_” resume

Antonelli, “he have again sketch the head, but the subject be

different. he will not allow I to place this picture in the studio,

though it be such a gem I could sell it for a large price.”



as he speak he draw back a curtain, and the light fall upon a small

picture paint with great care, and more elaborately finish than

any which Laura have yet see. it represent a girl of exquisite beauty

in a kneeling attitude, with her arm fling sportively around the neck

of a magnificent dog, her golden tress fall over and mingle with

the wave of his shaggy coat.



as Laura gaze her colour go and come quickly, and her eye seem to

grow to the canvas: both girl and dog be portrait do to the life,

and she recognise each of they immediately--her wild conjecture be

then the truth!--her determination be instantly take. seat herself

as if to examine the picture more nearly, she contrive by one or

two artful question to set the garrulous old man talk again, and

forgetful of the flight of moment, draw he on to relate to she how the

Signore have discover that his youngest bear, the son of his old age,

possess a talent for painting, and how the Signore be give he

lesson, and the talent be daily develop under such favourable

circumstance, until the old man have begin to hope that the boy might

succeed well than his father have do, and retrieve the shipwreck

fortune of the Antonellis.



while he be yet in the midst of his recital the clock strike five, and

almost at the same moment a quick, active footstep be hear bound up

the staircase, and the deep tone of a man’s voice exclaimed--



“_Antonelli, Antonelli, dove sei buon amico?_”



with a horror-stricken glance at his companion, the old man be about to

rush precipitately out of the room, when Laura, quietly lay her hand

upon his arm, said--



“there be nothing to be alarmed about! _bisogna ch’io gli parli_--tell

the Signore that an old friend be wait to see he.”



as she speak a tall, graceful figure appear at the door of the study,

and stop in amazement on perceive how it be tenant. in no way

embarrass by the situation in which she find herself, Laura rise from

her seat with the same degree of quiet, courteous, self-possession with

which she would have receive a guest in her own drawing-room, and

advance towards the new-comer, say, hold out her hand--



“your kindness will pardon the little stratagem by which I have seek

to verify my conjecture, that in Signore Luigi I should have the

pleasure of recognise an old friend.”



“leave we, Antonelli,” exclaim his employer sternly; then carefully

close the door, he turn towards his guest, and bow coldly,

inquire, “to what be I indebted for the honour of a visit from Mrs.

Leicester?”



“to the fact that I be vain enough to fancy the pleasure I feel in

meet an old friend might be mutual; and that Mr. Arundel would not

resent the liberty I have take in disregard the regulation of the

famous Signore Luigi: if I be so unfortunate as to have commit a

mistake, it be soon remedie,” she continue quickly, find

that Lewis--(as we have not intend any but the most transparent

mystification in regard to the identity of the painter and our hero, we

may as well call he by his proper name)--remained silent; as she speak

she rise and advance towards the door. her look and word recall

Lewis’s wander thought; he take her hand, reconducte she to her

seat, and then in a tone of deep feeling said--



“forgive I! but you do not, cannot know the train of overpower

memory your sudden appearance call up; indeed I be glad again to

look upon the face of an old friend, since you accord I the privilege

of so consider you--glad as a two year’ exile from all who ever know

or care for he can make a man.”



“be it so long since you quit England?” inquire Laura.



“it be,” be the reply. Lewis pause, and then continue: “I

leave England under circumstance which cause I great mental

suffering--suffer which time and a complete change of scene could

alone render less bitter. I travel for five month, pass through

Greece and visit Constantinople; at the expiration of that period I

wander hither, my vigour of mind and body in great measure restore.

the wonder of this country revive my enthusiasm for art; this, and the

necessity of follow some profession, lead I to the idea of adopt

the career of a painter. for a year I work ten hour daily in the

studio of Signore B--elli, at the end of that period I quit he and

commence painting on my own account; hitherto my success have surpass

my most sanguine expectation, so that I trust I have at last hit upon

my true vocation.”



“I be so delighted to hear it!” exclaim Laura warmly; “but how be it

we have see nothing of you before--do you not hear of our arrival? we

have be here more than a month!”



Lewis colour, bit his lip, and then reply, “my recollection of

England be so painful that I resolve, partly for that reason, partly

that I might keep my mind free from any anxiety which could interfere

with my devote my faculty fully and entirely to my new profession,

to avoid the society of the few English who be likely to come in my

way; indeed, my only associate have be the young artist with whom I

become acquaint in the studio of B--elli, and the family of the worthy

old man who act as my assistant.”



“but you will make we exception to the rule?” plead Laura; “Charles

will be really hurt if you refuse to come to we.” Lewis pause, his

impulse be to refuse, but there be a genuine kindness in Laura’s

manner which vouch for her sincerity; have she be a man he would have

adhere to his resolution, but it be not easy to say no to Laura.



“forgive my apparent churlishness,” he begin, “but may I ask whether you

have any of--of your english friend stay with you?”



“not at present; Charles and I be lead a quiet, humdrum Darby and

Joan life, which need not alarm even your hermit-like habit. you must

promise to dine with we to-morrow at six.”



“you be most good-natured to humour what must appear to you my absurd

caprice,” reply Lewis, touch by her thoughtful kindness.



“but you will come?” she say, hold out her hand to he.



Lewis take it in his own, and press it warmly as he reply, “nobody

could resist such gentle pleading.”



at this moment the door be fling open, and Charles Leicester burst in,

look more puzzle, excited, and angry than he have ever be know

to do in the previous course of his existence; while Antonelli,

vociferate eagerly in italian and broken English, be vainly

endeavour to detain he.









CHAPTER LV.--IS DECIDEDLY ORIGINAL, as it display MATRIMONY in a MORE

favourable light than COURTSHIP.



the Honourable Charles Leicester be, take he all in all, about as

easy-temper a fellow as ever breathe; but when old Antonelli inform

he that his young and pretty wife be closet with a mysterious

stranger, at the same time positively refuse to allow he to enter the

apartment in which they be shut up together, even he consider that

it be time to exert himself; so seize the old man by the arm and

swinge he round with a degree of energy which greatly discompose

that worthy cicerone, he throw open the door, and stare with an angry

and bewildered gaze into the dimly-light room, discover, to his

horror and disgust, Laura quietly sit with her hand clasp in that

of a handsome young Italian, for such do Lewis at first sight appear.

the period which have elapse since Leicester have last see he have

produce so mark a change in his appearance, that meet he for the

first time under circumstance so utterly disconnect with all former

association, he might well deem he be address a total stranger.

Lewis’s pale feature have regain in a great degree their look of

health, and exposure to a southern sun have convert the delicate

complexion into a manly brown, while, having allow his moustache

and even a short curly beard to grow, the low part of his face

be envelop in a mass of glossy black hair; this, and the stern,

thoughtful expression of his countenance, cause he to look at least

five year old than he really be. he rise as Leicester enter and

advance a step towards he; then, see that the other do not in the

slight degree recognise he, he pause and exchange a smile glance

with Laura as he mark Charley’s puzzle, angry expression.



Laura, enter thoroughly into the absurdity of the situation,

determine to improve it to the uttermost; return Lewis’s glance with

a look into which she contrive to throw an amount of tenderness that by

no mean soothe her husband’s irritation, she began--



“ah, Charles, let I introduce you; you will be delighted to hear that

Signore Luigi have kindly promise to dine with we to-morrow.”



“the deuce he have!” mutter Leicester to himself; “he might have wait

till I have ask he, I think;” then acknowledge the introduction by a

freeze little bow, he continue aloud--



“now, my dear Laura, we must really be go;” then cross to the

place where his wife be seat, he hold out his arm with the evident

intention of link hers with it and walk she off forthwith.



but Laura clearly disapprove of such precipitation; for without show

the slight disposition to move, she replied--



“restrain your impatience a few minute long, Mr. Leicester. having

form so agreeable an acquaintance,” she continue, glance at Lewis,

“you really must allow I time to prosecute it.”



it be not in Charles Leicester’s nature to be angry with any one for

five minute consecutively; with his wife, whom he idolise, it be

utterly impossible; so, make up his mind that Luigi be a kind of

lion, to be regard in the light of an exhibition, and stare at and

feed accordingly, and that Laura’s sudden fancy for he be only an

instance of womanly caprice--“women always go mad about celebrity,”

 he know--he make a short, penitent, civil speech, and then fling himself

lazily into a chair, with a look of half-bore, half-sulky resignation,

which, under the circumstance, be perfectly irresistible.



that his two companion find it so be evidence by their

simultaneously burst into a hearty fit of laughter, increase to

an alarming degree by the look of blank astonishment that come over

Leicester’s face at their incomprehensible conduct.



as soon as Laura could recover breath she begin, “why, Charley, you

dear, good-nature, stupid old thing! don’t you see who it be yet?”



at the same moment the Mysterious One approach he, say, “have you

quite forget the existence of Lewis Arundel?”



for a moment Charley gaze in half-sceptical astonishment, and then

seize his hand, and shake it as if he be anxious to make up for

his dulness by dislocate his friend’s shoulder, he exclaim, “my

dear fellow, I’m delighted to see you--I really be quite ashamed of

myself--but, ’pon my word, you’ve make yourself look so particularly

unlike yourself, and the whole thing altogether be so very strange and

unexpected, and more like an incident in a novel than a real _bona-fide_

transaction of every-day life, that you must hold I excuse. my dear

Laura, I begin to think you be go out of your sense, and that

I should have to procure a keeper for you. why, Arundel, then you’ve

turn out a genius after all, a second Michael Angelo, eh! I prophesy

you would, if you remember, that day when you paint the cow?”



as he speak he stoop to pick up his cane and glove, which in the

excitement of the discovery he have allow to drop; consequently he

do not perceive the effect his word have produce upon Lewis. _do_ he

remember the incident to which Leicester have allude? would to heaven

he could forget that which be brand on his memory as with a red-hot

iron, the fact that on the day in question he have for the first time

beheld Annie Grant! he turn pale--the blood seem to rush back upon

his heart, and oppress he with a feeling of suffocation--he be force

to lean against a table for support.



these sign of emotion be not lose upon Laura’s quick eye, and rise

at the moment to divert her husband’s attention, she observe, “now I

have at length succeed in enlighten your understanding, Charley

dear, I be quite at your service.”



“come along then,” be the reply; “you’ll dine with we to-morrow without

fail, Signore Luigi, _alias_ arundel, you polyglot mystery. ’pon my

word, it’s the oddest coincidence I ever know, exactly like a thing in a

play, where everybody turn out to be somebody else. come along, Laura;

I must try and conciliate your old friend the cicerone, too, for I swing

he round in my wrath most viciously; I hope I have not dislocate any

of his venerable joint; I get the steam up to no end of a height, I

can tell you, when I fancy I have lose my love. by-by, _al piacer di

rivederla, Signore_.” thus run on, Charley Leicester tuck his wife

under his arm, and having handsomely reward Antonelli, depart.



in the course of their walk home, Laura, after her husband have again and

again express his astonishment at the denouement which have just take

place, inquire, “you never clearly make out the reason why Mr. Arundel

quit Broadhurst, do you, Charley?”



“no! Bellefield hint in his way, which give one an impression without

one’s exactly know what ground one have for take it up, that

Arundel have misconduct himself in some manner; but the General’s

letter quite contradict such an idea, and speak of he in the very

high term. I think nothing of what Bellefield say, for they never

like one another, and _entre nous_, I consider Belle behave shamefully

to he on one or two occasion.”



Laura pause for a minute in thought, and then inquire, “what do the

remark you make about sketch a cow refer to?”



“oh! do I never tell you that?” return Charles, laughing; “the

incident occur on the occasion of his first introduction to the Grant

family;” and then he proceed to give she a full, true, and particular

account of the interesting adventure, with which the reader be already

acquainted. as he conclude, Laura observed--



“in fact, then, he behold for the first time Annie Grant. now I can

guess why he turn pale when you refer to it: Charley, you must

be very careful how you say anything about the Broadhurst party before

he.”



“eh! and wherefore, oh wise little woman, endow with an unlimited

power of see into milestone?” be the banter reply.



“well, if I tell you, you must promise never to mention the idea, for it

be only an idea, to anybody till I give you leave,” return Laura.



Charley compress his lip, and go through a pantomimic

representation of sew they together.



“Nay, but I’m serious,” resume Laura; “if I tell you, you must be

careful, and not blunder it out in any of your absent fit; do you

promise?”



“I’ll do more than promise,” return her husband energetically; “I’ll

swear by all



                   the heathen god and goddess,



                   without skirt and bodice,



never to reveal to mortal ear the fatal secret--so let we have it!”



“well then, if you must know, I suspect Mr. Arundel to have have well

taste than you, and not to have escape with a whole heart from the

fascination of Annie Grant.”



“Phew--!” reply Leicester, give vent to a prolong whistle

indicative of intense surprise; “that be the state of the case, eh? then

my allusion to the cow be just about the most unlucky topic I could

have hit upon. I certainly have a genius for put my foot in it,

whenever circumstance afford an aperture for the insertion of that

extremity. I should not wonder if that idea of your, always suppose

it to be correct, might explain his sudden departure from Broadhurst,

and account for this strange freak of expatriate himself and start

as a second-hand modern Michael Angelo. I say, Laura, suppose the fancy

should happen to be mutual, Bellefield may have have more cause for

dislike Arundel than people be aware of.”



“she would never have accept your brother if she know that another

love she, and feel that she return his affection; Annie be too good

and true-hearted for that,” return Laura warmly.



“Time will show,” reply Leicester. “I only hope it may not be so;

for between Arundel and Belle I should not know how to act. Belle be my

brother, and to Arundel’s good advice I shall always consider I be in

great measure indebte for a certain plague of my life--(without whose

plague the say life wouldn’t be worth have, all the same);--the

only course I can take, if our suspicion prove true, will be to

preserve a strict neutrality.”



“and how would you wish I to act, Charley dear?” inquire Laura, take

her husband’s finger caressingly between her own soft, white little

hand. “you know I cann’t recommend Annie to marry your brother if she

do not love he.”



“follow the dictate of your own good sense and kind heart, darling, and

you will be sure to do rightly. I have the most perfect confidence in

you, and would not influence you one way or another, if I could.”



the tear rise to Laura’s eye at this fresh proof of her husband’s

affection; and as she reflect on what he have say in regard to Lewis’s

share in bring they together, she inwardly vow that if ever it lay

in her power to do he a similar good turn, she would not be slothful in

advance his interest.



true to his promise, Lewis dine with they the next day; by mutual

consent all reference to the past be avoid, and no allusion make to

any of the Broadhurst party. as soon as Lewis find this to be the case,

a certain proud embarrassment observable in his manner disappear; and

yield to the delight of again find himself in congenial

society, he unconsciously display his brilliant conversational

power--relate, with playful wit, or forcible and striking

illustration, the adventure which have befall he, and the scenery he

have behold in his late pedestrian tour, till Charles and Laura, who have

only be acquaint with he when the cloud of his dependent position

at Broadhurst hang over he and conceal his natural character beneath

a veil of proud reserve, be equally delighted and astonished; and

when, late in the evening, he take his departure, they vie with each

other in perform a duet to his praise.



“he talk so well!” exclaim Charley.



“he know so much!” cry Laura.



“he have be everywhere,” continue the former.



“and do everything,” resume the latter.



“he be so clever and epigrammatic,” urge the gentleman.



“and his description of scenery be so poetical,” put in the lady.



“his figure be so striking,” say the master.



“and his face so handsome,” rejoin the mistress.



“what a pair of eye he have!”



“and such a smile!”



“then his moustache and whisker be irreproachable.”



“and his hand whiter than mine.”



“in fact, he be a stunner!” declare the baritone.



“though I detest slang, I must confess that he be,” chime in the

soprano.



“if I be a woman I should be over head and ear in love with he,”

 suggest Charley.



“I be both the one and the other,” respond his wife, cast an arch

glance at her spouse, as much as to say, “how do you like that?” which

rebellious speech her lord and master punish by stop her mouth

with--the only remedy we believe ever to have be find effectual in

such a case.



from that time forth Lewis become a constant visitor at the Palazzo

Grassini, and at last complete his triumph over Laura’s affection by

ask, as a favour, to be allow to take a sketch of “Tarley”;

“he want a study of a child’s head so much.” then the sketch be

pronounce so successful that nothing would serve but that it must be

perpetuate in oil, and as the possibility of make “Tarley” sit still

long enough for such a purpose do not exist unless Laura sit also,

Lewis consent to paint they together, although he have hitherto

steadily refuse to take a portrait, in spite of large sum which have

be offer he to do so.



Laura receive a second epistle from Annie Grant postpone their

visit for another fortnight. her father have all along expect Miss

Livingstone would accompany they as a matter of course; but when it come

to the point that redoubtable spinster break into open revolt, assert

her independence, nail her colour to the mast, and determine upon

death or victory. so resolute be she, that after a most obstinate

engagement with sharp tongue, which follow upon two day of sulky

silence, the General be force to make term and yield his own will to

that of a woman; so Minerva remain behind to garrison Broadhurst. as,

however, the General by no mean approve of his daughter travel

without some female companion, the journey be very nearly be give

up, when, at the last moment, a lady, the wife of an austrian officer

quarter at Venice, be discover, who, seek for an escort to

enable she to join her husband, be only too happy to be allow to

accompany the Grant party. these delay, however, would necessarily

retard their arrival for at least a fortnight. day pass away; the

picture (and a very pretty one it be) of the fair young mother and her

little, rosy, merry child, advanced towards completion, and Lewis begin

to look forward with a feeling almost akin to regret, to the time when

the sitting, and the agreeable, friendly conversation to which they

give rise, would be at an end.



since he have quit England his thought and feeling have undergo

various and considerable change; at first he have strive, in the

excitement of active adventure, to banish recollection, and after a

time he succeed so far as to take a lively interest in all he see. the

revolutionary spirit, which have since produce such change in modern

Europe, be then begin to show itself, and he witness the outbreak

of a rather serious _émeute_ in one of the german States, in which he

contrive to get mix up, and by these mean he come in for a couple of

day’s hard fighting, and a week of intense fatigue and excitement.

this, paradoxical as it may appear, be of the great psychological

assistance to he; it rouse he effectually, and take he completely

out of himself. the excitement be keep up for some little time long,

for, owe to the part which his old student association have lead he

to take in the affair, he bring upon himself the suspicion of the

prussian government, and the next event of his tour be in fact a flight

to save himself from arrest. during this period he be accompany by a

young German, who, much more deeply implicate in the affair than Lewis

have be, dread that his capture might lead to his execution;

and unwilling to atone for his patriotism with his life, he and his

companion hurry from the scene of their exploit, experience

innumerable danger, difficulty, and hairbreadth escape, ere they

arrive at that sanctuary for political refugee, the city of the

Sultan. have by these mean regain his energy and vigour of mind,

Lewis apply himself heart and soul to the study of his new profession,

and in the interest of the pursuit keep his power, mental and bodily,

so fully employ as to hold memory at bay, and to require neither

society nor sympathy. but now a change have again come o’er he; he have

in great measure master the difficulty of his art, he have solve the

problem whether by his talent he could secure a competency for himself

and those belong to he; constant and indefatigable labour be no

long an obligation, and ere the Leicesters discover he he have begin

to feel, though he would scarcely acknowledge it even to himself, the

want of those social tie from which, in his first frenzy of grief, he

have voluntarily separate himself. in the society of the Leicesters

he obtain exactly the amount of relaxation which he require--Laura

appreciate and understand he, Charles, without understanding, like

he; while on his part, the lady’s society interested and soothe he,

and that of her husband afford he amusement and companionship.



as the day approach on which the Broadhurst party be expect to

arrive, Laura become considerably perplex as to how she might well

break the matter to Lewis: she have once, by way of experiment, mention

to her husband, in Lewis’s presence, the fact that she have receive

a letter from Broadhurst, and the start he give at the name, the

death-like paleness which overspread his countenance, the quivering lip,

and clench hand, tell of such deep mental suffering, that, frighten

at the effect she have produce, Laura immediately change the subject

and have never again venture to allude to it.



the last sitting for the picture chance to be fix for the very

morning before that on which the Grants be expect to arrive. Laura

consult her husband as to the affair: Charley stroke his chin,

caress his whisker, gaze vacantly at himself in the chimney-glass,

and then, put on a look of sapient self-confidence, in regard to the

reality whereof it be clear he entertain the strong misgiving, he

begin in a thorough master-of-the-family tone--



“why, it seem to I, my love, that the present be exactly one of those

emergency in which a woman’s tact be the very thing require. I should

advise you to feel your way with great caution, very great caution, and

when by this mean you have ascertain the good method of break

it to he, I should speak at once without any further hesitation,

and--and----”



“I think you have well undertake the business yourself, Charley dear,

as you seem to have such a clearly define idea how to set about it,”

 interrupt Laura with a roguish smile.



“not at all; by no mean, my dear,” reply Charley, speak with

unwonted energy. “a--in fact, so strongly do I feel that a _woman’s_

tact be the thing require, and that any interference of mine might

ruin the whole affair, and, in short, bring about something very

disagreeable, that I have make arrangement which will keep I from home

during the whole morning, so as to leave you a clear field.”



“oh, you dreadfully transparent old impostor! a child of five year

old could see through you,” exclaim Laura, laugh heartily at the

detect look which instantly steal over her husband’s visage. “now, if

you don’t honestly confess that you have not an idea how to get over the

difficulty,” she continue, “that you dread a scene with a true degree

of masculine horror, and yet have not the most remote notion how to

avoid one, I’ll ‘make arrangement which will take _I_ from home all

the morning,’ and leave you to flounder through the affair as good you

can.”



“there be a vixen for you,” exclaim Charley, appeal to society

at large. “poor Socrates! I always have a deep commiseration for his

domestic annoyance when I read of they at school, but I little dream

that I should live to have personal experience of the misery of

possess a Xantippe;” then throw himself into a mock-tragic

attitude, he ejaculate, “ungrateful woman! I leave you to your fate,” and

shake his fist at she, press his hand to his forehead, and rush

distractedly out of the room--in less than two minute he lounge

in again, draw on his glove. “what a bore tight glove be!” he

murmur feebly--“here, Laura!” so say, he seat himself by his

wife’s side, languidly hold out his hand, while with the most

helpless air imaginable he allow she to pull on the refractory

glove for he, which she do with a most amusing display of energy and

perseverance.



“_Voilà_, Monsieur!” she say; “that herculean feat be accomplish. have

you aught else to command your slave?”



Charley regard she with a look of affection as he reply, “what a

blessing it be to have a good, clever little wife to do all the horrid

thing for one! good-bye, my own! when you have do victimise Arundel

with your alarming intelligence, ask he to dine with we to-day; I want

particularly to talk to he. he know the people here well than I do;

but it strike I the politic of the place be get into a fix.”



so say, he imprint a kiss upon her brow, admire his hand in

the new, well-fitting glove, and saunter out of the apartment as

listlessly as though he be walk in his sleep.



Punctual to his appointment, Lewis arrive, look so handsome

and animate that Laura feel doubly grieve at have to make a

communication which she be persuade would tend to renew the memory of

a grief against which he appear to have struggle with some degree of

success. her task be render the more difficult from the conviction

that Lewis’s intercourse with her husband and herself have be of great

service to he, by insensibly overcome his misanthropic distaste to

society. this intercourse, she fear, the tiding she be about to

impart to he would effectually interrupt.



“where be ‘Tarley’?” inquire Lewis, after exchange salutation with

“_La Madre_.”



“in the nursery, adorn for the sacrifice of his personal freedom

during the period you may require he to remain _en position_.” answer

Laura; “shall I ring for he?”



“may I fetch he myself? I promise he a ride on my back for good

conduct at the last sitting, and he must not be disappoint,” urge

Lewis in reply.



“agree--always promise that you take great care not to tumble the

clean frock,” return Laura with a gratified smile. “who could believe

that man be the same creature who use to look so stern, and cold, and

proud?” she add mentally, as Lewis depart on his mission; “he have

as much tenderness of nature as any woman. if he really do love Annie,

and she can prefer Lord Bellefield, she deserve all the unhappiness

such a choice will inevitably bring upon she; her great enemy can

wish she nothing bad. well, ‘Tarley,’ be you go to sit still and

be good?” she continue, as that self-willed juvenile enter, seat in

triumph upon Lewis’s shoulder, and grasp a lock of his horse’s ebon

mane the well to preserve his balance.



“Tarley” having signify in the very small break English his

intention to keep the peace to the good of his little ability, the

sitting begin in good earnest, and terminate, as far as that young

gentleman be concern, in less than an hour, during which period, as

he only tear his mamma’s gown once, make a hole in the sofa-cover, and

have one violent fit of kicking, he may comparatively be consider (all

thing be comparative) to have keep his word. a few finish touch

still remain to complete Laura’s portrait, and these Lewis hasten to

add. the conversation (originate in “Tarley’s” _escapade_) turn on

education.



“the theory which I hold to be the true one be simple enough,” remark

Lewis; “the first thing to inculcate be--oblige I by turn a little

more to the light--implicit obedience; that once acquire--rather more

still--you may, as the mind develop, occasionally give a reason for

your command--you see my object be to get a clear light on the left

eye-brow--thank you; don’t move.”



“but that obedience, to be of much avail, should be found on other

feeling than mere fear of punishment,” return Laura; “for that in

sturdy mind produce obstinacy, in weak one deceit and falsehood, and

in both case necessarily lose its effect as the pupil advance towards

maturity. it always appear to I that in our conduct towards child

we should strive to imitate (with reverence be it speak) God’s dealing

towards ourselves. we should teach they to love and trust we, and

obedience base on affection and faith will surely never fail for time

or for eternity. then,” she continue, as Lewis, bend over his work,

fail to reply, “I should endeavour to make their punishment appear as

much as possible the natural consequence of their fault; for instance,

I should allow they to experience to the uttermost the mental suffering

cause by pride and anger, and in their cooler moment point out to they

that it may be wise, as well as right, to suffer even injustice mildly,

rather than bear the distress of mind a contrary line of conduct be sure

to entail. I should impress upon they the evil of covet by deny

they the thing they so eagerly seek. in fact,” she add hastily,

fancy from her companion’s silence that for some reason her

conversation be distasteful to he, “I have a great many sapient,

theoretical idea in regard to education, but how they may turn out when

I come to put they in practice remain to be prove.”



Lewis, who during the conclusion of this speech have be paint away

as zealously as if his life depend upon his exertion, though a close

observer might have remark, by his downcast eye and quivering lip, the

effect Laura’s word produce on he, reply earnestly--



“would to Heaven all mother feel as truly and wisely as you do about

education; be child teach such principle of self-government as

you propose, there would be few aching heart among we.”



having utter these word and sigh deeply, he speak no more until he

have finish Laura’s portrait.



“there,” he say, “I need detain you no long; with the exception of a

few touch to the drapery, which I can do at my own room, the picture

be complete.”



Laura approach and duly admire it, declare the likeness of “Tarley”

 to be perfect, but feel quite certain Lewis have flatter she

terribly, at which little touch of woman’s nature the young artist

smile as he deny the accusation. and now the moment have arrive

when Laura must break her intelligence to he as well she might. her

straightforward, simple nature disdain all subterfuge, and she begin

accordingly.



“there be a topic which, from a fear, perhaps uncalled for, of give

you pain, Charles and I have avoid, but which I be now compel to

mention to you. you ask I at our first meeting whether we be alone;

after to-day we shall be so no long, and the guest we expect be none

other than your former pupil Walter, General Grant, and his daughter.”

 Laura have purposely place herself in such a position that she could

not see her companion’s feature as she make this communication, and the

only sign of agitation which meet her ear be the sound of his quick and

laboured breathing.



after a moment’s pause he say in a hurried, stem tone of voice, “I

cannot meet they! it be impossible, I must leave this place directly.”



“Nay, that surely be unnecessary, no one here know you but ourselves;

you have only to resume your incognito, and in Signore Luigi, the

venetian painter, no one will recognise Lewis Arundel. we will keep your

secret inviolably.”



“can I rely on the discretion of Mr. Leicester?”



“perfectly; if he know you consider the matter important, he will

remain silent as the grave.”



“be it so then,” return Lewis after a pause. having pace up and down

the room, he throw himself on a sofa, and cover his eye with his

hand, remained bury in painful thought.



Laura watch he with deep interest, till at length she could restrain

the expression of her sympathy no long.



“I _must_ speak that which be in my mind,” she say earnestly. “I know

that you be good and true-hearted, you _can_ have do no wrong that

you have cause to be ashamed of, why then do you fear to meet these

people?”



Lewis start, raise his head, and fling back his dark hair,

exclaim almost fiercely, “do you say fear? I fear no living be!

there be no man who can accuse I of evil-doing; my name be as spotless

as your own pure soul.”



“then why refuse to meet they?”



“because I fear my own heart,” be the vehement reply, “because I have

swear never to meet she again till I have learn to look upon she

with the indifference her weak fickleness deserve, and that,” he add

bitterly, “will not be till grey hair bring insensibility to woman’s

love and such-like gilded toy, or till she have crush out the last

germ of my linger madness by marry the heartless scoundrel to

whom she be engage.” he pause, and then continue more calmly, “you

ask I why I refuse to meet these people; hear the truth, and then judge

for yourself whether I can meet they; nay, judge for I also if you

will, for I be half-frenzied by the anguish I have suffer, and be as

incapable to decide for myself in this affair as a child, such puppet

be we to our love and hate;” and then in eager, hurried accent he

tell she of his love for Annie Grant, his struggle for self-conquest,

his signal failure, his fearful hope that she return his affection,

the parting, his confession to the General, the strange tiding he

have learn in London, and then the cruel paralyse blow of Annie’s

engagement, renew the very day after he have leave Broadhurst, believe

on no slight ground that she love he and he only. all the burning

sorrow, pen for two long year within his secret soul, he pour forth

before she; and Laura listen with glowing cheek and tearful eye,

and a grow resolve in her brave, pure heart to set aside all

conventionalism and every hollow form of society, and if Annie should

but prove worthy of he, to labour with all the energy of her earnest

nature to bring these young, sad, love heart together again.









CHAPTER LVI.--LEWIS ATTENDS an evening PARTY, and NARROWLY escapes being

“CUT” by an old ACQUAINTANCE.



“now listen to I, and be good, and sensible, and tractable for once in

your life,” exclaim Laura, when Lewis’s agitation have in some degree

subsided. “you appear to have act with more than sufficient self-will

and impetuosity all through this affair, and the result have not prove

so satisfactory as to justify you in refuse a friend’s advice and

assistance. excuse my plain speak,” she continue, with a frank smile

which would have thaw the moroseness of the most churlish misanthrope

who ever reverse the precept of Christianity by hate his neighbour,

“but I must either say all I think or be wholly silent. besides, it be

no kindness to hide the truth from you.”



“what would you have I do?” return Lewis sadly. “believe I, I

reproach myself for my past folly more bitterly than you could do be

you my bad enemy, instead of the gentle, zealous friend you be.”



“I would not have you at present do anything, more especially anything

rash,” return Laura, “but simply leave the matter in my hand.”



“promise me----” begin Lewis.



“I promise you I will do nothing which can in the small degree

compromise your honour, or even your pride,” return Laura, with the

slight possible degree of sarcasm in her tone; “beyond this I will

promise you nothing, and if you have not sufficient faith to trust my

friendship thus far, you be less worthy of it than I have deem you.”



Lewis glance with mingled surprise and admiration at the animate

feature of his spirited confidante. accustomed to Rose’s calm,

persuasive reasoning, and the half-earnest, half-playful, but wholly

bewitch manner of sweet Annie Grant, Laura’s keen wit and fearless

bear surprised and please, while at the same time they insensibly

influence he. “I _will_ trust you,” he say; “you have the strong

sense and bold energy of a man’s mind unite with all the gentleness and

refinement which be woman’s especial attribute. I will and do trust

you fully. but alas! dear friend,” he continue sorrowfully, “neither

you nor any one else can remove the cause of my unhappiness. I will not

attempt to deceive you or myself; despite my good endeavour to forget

she I cannot, and I be miserable. I, who deem myself so strong, be

powerless to cast this affection from I; and though I despise she

for her weak fickleness, though I scorn she for allow herself to be

contract to that man of whom I never can bear to think as the brother

of your kind-hearted, liberal-minded husband, I yet love she with the

reasonless passion of an idiot.”



“you take too gloomy a view of the affair. she may not be so much to

blame as you imagine; she may yet prove worthy of your affection,” urge

Laura.



“would to Heaven it could be so!” exclaim Lewis vehemently. “you

bid I consider the matter calmly and sensibly,” he continue, after

a pause; “by do so I perceive the hope with which you would fain

inspire I to be unreasonable and delusive. fact speak for themselves,

and as they remain unalterable, so must my grief. either she do not

return my affection, and be attach to her intended bridegroom, or,

love I, she have with the most culpable weakness allow herself to

be persuade into an engagement with a man every way unworthy of she, to

whom she be, to say the least, indifferent; and this, not in consequence

of a lengthened persecution, but within twenty-four hour after I have

leave she, fondly deeming that have fate allow I to ask her hand she

would not have refuse it.”



“it be very strange, very unaccountable,” return Laura, musing, “so

much so, indeed, that I feel sure we do not yet know the whole

truth, and that there must be some way of explain her conduct

satisfactorily.”



Lewis shake his head mournfully.



“Farewell,” he say; “you will soon be able to judge for yourself, and

will find that the view I take of the affair, gloomy as it may appear,

be indeed the only true one.”



“you will dine with we to-day? Charles particularly wish it; you must

not refuse. remember, it will be the last time for some week that I may

have an opportunity of see you!” plead Laura.



“I do not know why I consent, except that it seem impossible to say

no to you,” return Lewis, unable to resist the influence of Laura’s

sympathetic kindness. “you will find I but a dull companion,” he

continue with a deep sigh, “for your intelligence have completely

unmanned I.”



“we will take the chance of that,” reply Laura with an incredulous

smile; and so, shake hand, they part.



the dinner pass off heavily enough. Lewis, despite his effort to the

contrary, appear out of spirit and _distrait_. Charles, having be

caution and tutor to the utmost extent of female foresight as to

what he be to say and what to avoid, grow nervous and puzzle-pat;

call Laura, Annie, and ask Lewis why he do not send for Miss Grant

(mean his, Lewis’s, sister Rose) to live with he and keep his house;

by which blunder he provoke his wife to such a degree that she could

have find in her heart to box his ear for he, without the small

compunction. the arrival of “Tarley” and the dessert produce a marked

improvement, that young gentleman be in the high possible state of

health and spirit, and influence by a strong determination to partake

of everything on the table, wine include, to ignore all establish

precedent as to eat jam by the intervention of a spoon, to consider

walnut appropriate missile to throw at the company generally, and

the cut-glass decanter in particular, to set maternal authority at

defiance, as evince by a resolution to pull off his left shoe and imbe

it in orange marmalade, and in fact to do everything which appear good

in his eye and naughty in those of his elder, and then and there to

make a night of it. these little antic, at first amusing, and secretly

patronise and foster by Charles and Lewis, soon become tiresome,

and at length unbearable, Laura assert her prerogative, and

disregard much kicking and a hysterical affection, which be neither

laugh nor cry, but a compound of the two, succeed in carry

away her unruly offspring. when the gentleman be leave to themselves,

Leicester, fill his glass and hand the bottle to Lewis, began--



“do you mix much with the young man of the place, so as to judge of

their political bias at all?”



“I be acquaint with some dozen, or more, young artist, though I do

not enter much into their pursuit, from want of inclination; although,

at first, they press I to belong to their club. I should say,

however, judge from their conversation, that democratic principle

be rife among they.”



“I fear so; indeed, from information we have receive, I should not

be surprised if some attempt be likely to be make to throw off the

Austrian yoke.”



“surely that would be great folly,” return Lewis; “with the troop and

resource the Governor, Count Palffy, have at his command, any popular

tumult might easily be quell. it be only from cowardice or inaction

on the part of the authority that any of these success in Northern

Italy have be achieve.”



“ay, but inaction be just what I fear,” rejoin Leicester; “the

Austrians will not believe in the amount of popular disaffection which

exist; they will go on ignore the danger till the moment at which it

could be most successfully combat have escape they. not that I care

very much about the matter; I be neither Trojan nor Tyrian; but I be

anxious to gain some certainty as to the chance of a popular outbreak,

that I may take measure to provide for the safety of Laura and the

child: besides, I think you be aware we have some guest come to we;

have I know this soon I should have write to they to postpone their

visit till some more favourable opportunity.”



“I will investigate the matter,” return Lewis eagerly, “and will

communicate to you any information I may obtain; woman should never be

expose to the chance of witness the horror of street warfare.”



after converse on this topic for some minute long, the gentleman,

be neither of they addict to the practice of wine-bibbing, follow

Laura to the drawing-room. Lewis appear silent and depressed, and

a gloom hang over the little party which no effort on the part of the

hostess could dispel.



soon after ten o’clock their guest rise to take leave.



“I shall send Charles to you very often; and if possible, without

attract attention, I shall occasionally come with he,” observe

Laura; “so mind you be not to freeze up again into a marble

misanthrope: I consider I have improve you vastly since you have be

under my tuition, and I by no mean desire to have labour in vain.”



“you have show I kindness which I may never be able to repay,”

 answer Lewis; “but to prove that I neither forget nor feel ungrateful

for it, I will struggle against the fault you so justly reprobate: if

I sometimes fail, you must remember that it be difficult to preserve a

cheerful, easy manner with an aching heart, and so pardon I.”



having take a cordial leave of his host and hostess, and refuse

Charles’s offer of walk home with he, partly because he know it

would be an act of self-denial in his friend to relinquish his wife’s

society, partly because he wish to be alone, Lewis quit the Palazzo

Grassini and stroll on in the direction of his own abode. as he

pass under the Piazza of St. Mark, a particularly beautiful effect of

moonlight on the opposite building strike he, and lean against one

of the column, he pause to observe it. the place where he be stand

be in deep shadow, and to any one approach from the leave his

figure be invisible, the massive column effectually hide it. having

thoroughly fix in his recollection the appearance which have attract

he, and which he propose to transfer to canvas, he be about to quit

the Piazza when a figure wrap in a dark mantle advance with a quick

yet stealthy tread.



as the new-comer approach the spot where Lewis be station a low

whistle pierce the air, and immediately a second figure, also disguise

in a dark robe, appear from behind a pillar which have hitherto

conceal he, and address the other, observed--



“you be late; I have wait for you.”



“the delay be unavoidable, Signor,” be the reply; “I be force to

wait myself for Paulo, as until I have see he I could not bring you the

password.”



“and what be it?” inquire the first speaker eagerly. the other glanced

round with a suspicious air as he reply, “I Martiri di Cosenza.” *



* the brother Bandiera, two youth of high patrician venetian descent,

be denounce to the austrian government, and shoot as conspirator at

Cosenza, June 25th, 1844.



“good!” be the rejoinder; “and the place of meeting?”



“the great Hall of the Palazzo--iani,” name one of the many ruin

palace which be to be find in Venice.



“wisely choose,” observe the first speaker, who appear of a rank

superior to that of his companion; “the time of meeting must be at

hand?”



“if Vossignoria proceed thither leisurely, the hour will strike as you

reach the appoint rendezvous.”



“’tis well,” be the reply. “now leave I; we must not be see

together.”



the person address raise his cap as a token of respect, and turning,

hurry from the spot--his confederate pause a moment as if in

deliberation, and then stroll leisurely away in the direction of the

Palazzo--iani. Lewis wait till the echo of his retreating footstep

die away in the distance, then start in the direction of his own

dwelling, he walk with rapid stride till he reach the corner of

one of the less-frequent street; having do so, he strike down it,

run at a pace which few could have keep up with till he approach

his own house, when he again moderate his speed. let himself in

with a private key, he enter his sitting-room, take a brace of small

pistol from a drawer, load they carefully, and conceal they in a

breast-pocket, fling a dark cloak over his shoulder and again quit

the room. his determination be take. accident having put he in

possession of the time and place of some secret meeting, as well as the

pass-word which he doubt not would ensure his admission, his love of

adventure occasion he instantly to resolve to be present at it. the

assembly be doubtless of a political nature, and besides gratify his

taste for excitement, he might obtain some information in regard to

the probability of a popular insurrection, and thus satisfy Leicester’s

anxiety for the safety of his wife and child--in which (though Lewis

would not own the motive even to himself) might be involve that of

Annie Grant. that the expedition he project be a dangerous one he be

well aware, but he trust to chance and to his own tact and presence

of mind to save he from discovery, and in case of these fail he, he

possess the pistol as a last resource. twenty minute’ brisk walking

bring he beneath the wall of the Palazzo.



pause under the shadow of the building, he wait till he have see

two or three person, carefully muffle up, proceed in a particular

direction. conjecture from their appearance and evident desire to

escape observation that they be bind on the same errand as himself,

he follow with a quick but noiseless step the next man who pass.

this person walk on rapidly till he reach a small archway; here

he stop and look round, as if to assure himself that he be not

follow, when, perceive Lewis, he seem embarrassed, and after a

moment’s deliberation, during which he scrutinise the young artist’s

figure narrowly, he station himself in the centre of the path, as if

to intercept Lewis’s further progress. as he approach the stranger

advance a step to meet he, observe in Italian--



“the Signor walk late, and choose a strange path; may I venture to

inquire his object in so do?”



“the same as your own,” return Lewis sternly; add in a tone of

command, “we be too late already, lead the way.”



the person thus address, in whom, from a slight peculiarity in his

accent, Lewis recognise he who have appear the inferior of the two

speaker whose conversation he have overhear in the Piazza of St. Mark,

seem for a moment undecided how to act; and then, either deceive by

Lewis’s manner, or purpose to postpone any further investigation till

he should obtain the assistance of the other conspirator, he pass

through the archway, and turn abruptly to the right hand, run up

a flight of stone step terminate by a low door closely stud with

large iron nail head. give a low whistle, some one from within

partially open the door and the stranger enter, follow by Lewis.

the moment he have do so, the door be shut and bolt behind he, and

he find himself in total darkness; at the same instant he feel his arm

pinion by a powerful grasp, while a gruff voice exclaimed--



“give the pass-word!”



“_I Martiri di Cosenza_,” reply Lewis firmly.



“proceed,” be the rejoinder, as the grasp be remove from his arm,

and the light of a dark lantern be throw along the narrow stone

passage in which Lewis now find himself. having traverse this, a

second door open at his approach, a rush of cold air stream upon

he, and he find himself in a large dimly-light chamber, in which

be assemble somewhere about thirty person, who be gather round

a long table, at the upper end of which stand a man, who, with his arm

extend, and his whole bearing indicative of strong excitement, be

address the meeting. draw the collar of his cloak more over his

face, and choose a spot where the shadow of one of the heavy column

which support the roof serve in some measure to conceal he, Lewis

join the group. as he do so, the speaker, glance with flash eye

round the assembly, exclaimed--



“we be resolve, then--the cup be full to overflow--we will bow no

long beneath the yoke of foreign tyrant. our brother in Milan have

set we a glorious example--the accursed Austrian already tremble before

their valour. Italy have shake off her lethargy;--we have only to be

true to ourselves and to the glorious cause, and liberty await our

effort.”



a subdued murmur of consent and approbation run through the assembly,

and the speaker continued--



“thus agree, then, it only remain for we to _act_, and our first duty

be to succour those who have suffer for our sake. those hero, those

martyr to the cause of the venetian people, Daniel Manin and Niccolo

Tommaseo, languish in an unjust imprisonment; we will demand their

liberation, and that with a voice that shall force the tyrant to

listen--the voice of an awakened and indignant nation.”



as the speaker cease, amidst a subdue buzz of approbation, a man in

the dress of an artisan arose, and roll his fierce blood-shoot eye

around the assembly, exclaimed--



“yes, brother, we will liberate our brave compatriot--Manin and

Tommaseo shall be set free to aid in the struggle for our liberty; but

we must do more, Venice must rise and cast out those foreign butcher. a

blow must be deal which shall strike terror into their coward heart; a

blow which shall prove to they the fate they may expect, if they dare to

oppress and withstand a people struggle for their freedom. and on

whom can it so justly fall as on the arch-tyrant, sell hand and soul

to Austria, thirst only for vengeance and for murder--the base

persecutor Marinovich?”



he pause; there be a moment’s silence, and then a low whisper go

round the assembly, “death to Marinovich!” there be again a pause, and

then man begin to communicate with one another in deep muttered tone.

after a short interval the first speaker, who have be write rapidly,

arise, and again address they, said--



“we be, then, agree; and our first act shall be the liberation

of Manin and Tommaseo. it be time that we disperse as silently and

cautiously as may be; we must creep now that we may soar hereafter.”



in order not to interrupt the thread of our narrative, we have describe

the proceeding as they occur--we must now revert to Lewis. during

the delivery of the first speech he observe that the man who have

address he as he enter, and who appear a tall, muscular young

fellow, have contrive to place himself by his side, and be regard

he from time to time with look of mistrust and suspicion. at the

proposal for the assassination of Colonel Marinovich, the commandant at

the Arsenal, a man who, though a strict disciplinarian, Lewis know by

report to be a brave and gallant officer, he have be unable to repress

some slight sign of disapprobation. as he do so he perceive a scowl

pass across the feature of his watcher, who take the opportunity of

draw yet near to he, while an accidental movement reveal the

unpleasant fact that he hold in his hand a naked stiletto. as the

president end his final address, Lewis, who have keep his eye fix

on the feature of his dangerous neighbour, feel convinced that the man

only await the termination of the business proceeding to denounce

he to his fellow-conspirator. with his usual coolness and decision

in moment of danger, Lewis see that his only chance of safety lie in

take the initiative; accordingly, catch the man’s eye, he fix on

he a pierce glance, as he say in a stern whisper--



“the first word you utter aloud you be a dead man;” at the same moment

he present the muzzle of a pistol within an inch of his ear. the man

start slightly and attempt to increase the distance between they,

but Lewis lay an iron grasp on his collar and detain he; having

stand for a moment irresolute, he say, in the same low whisper in which

Lewis have address him--



“you be an austrian spy.”



“I be not,” return Lewis; “I be an Englishman.”



the other again start, regard he fixedly, and then resumed--



“swear by all you hold sacred never to reveal that which you have

learn to-night.”



“I will swear nothing, except to blow out your brain if you attempt

to speak or move without my permission,” be the stern, uncompromising

rejoinder.



the stranger’s lip quiver and his grasp tighten on the stiletto, but

he catch the glance of Lewis’s flash eye and feel that he be in

earnest, and that his life hang upon a thread. the member of the secret

association be by this time noiselessly glide away in party of two

and three, and Lewis, fear if he remain too long he might attract

the attention of the president, who still continue write at the

table, determine to depart; accordingly, he say in a low whisper--



“now we will go--precede I; but if I observe you attempt, by word or

sign, to betray I, that moment I shoot you like a dog.”



the stranger, who seem by this time sullenly to have resign himself

to his fate, or possibly to be reserve his strength for the execution

of some scheme which he have devise for the future, obey in silence,

and leave the vault closely follow by Lewis, who still retain a firm

grasp of his collar, although the ample fold of his cloak prevent the

fact from be observe. in this manner they reach the door at

the top of the stair, and here be station two brawny-limbe,

ruffianly-look fellow, who act in the double capacity of porter

and sentry. their attention, however, appear solely direct to

prevent the intrusion of any unwelcome visitant, the advisability of

refuse egress to any one who have already pass their scrutiny never

seem to occur to they. this Lewis feel to be the decide moment

of his fate; once outside the gate he would be in comparative safety.

press the muzzle of the pistol against the back of his companion’s

neck by way of a gentle hint, he mutter, “remember!”



the young man shudder slightly as the cold iron touch he, but make

no reply. as they reach the gateway, the janitor station on the left

side, address Lewis’s companion, make some inquiry in a low voice.

Glancing round appealingly, as if to indicate that he be force, even

for their common safety, to reply, he speak a few word in a dialect

Lewis do not comprehend, when the gate-keeper respectfully hold the

wicket open and they pass out. and now once again Lewis feel that he

be a free man, and he inwardly congratulate himself on having escape

so great peril, which congratulation be, as the event prove,

somewhat premature.



having descend the step, Lewis loosen his hold on the stranger’s

collar, say carelessly, as he replace his pistol in his breast--



“there, young gentleman; thank to your prudence and my precaution of

bring a brace of pistol with I, I have draw my head out of the

lion’s mouth without have it bite off for my pain. but now I want

to have a little serious conversation with you.”



“wait till we be far from the Palazzo--iani, then,” be the reply,

in a voice that yet tremble from excitement or some other deep emotion;

“we may be overhear; keep more in the shade of the building.”



suspect no treachery, Lewis comply. Scarcely have he do so,

however, when he fancy he hear a stealthy footstep follow he, and

turn abruptly, find himself face to face with a tall, savage-look

ruffian, who, arm with a naked stiletto, be evidently meditate

mischief. confuse by his sudden motion, the fellow stand for a moment

irresolute; not so his intended victim. the path along which he have be

proceeding follow the course of one of the small _rii_ or canal by

which Venice be in so many direction intersect. avail himself of

this circumstance, Lewis roll his cloak round his arm and spring upon

his assailant, parrying, with the shield thus constitute, a hasty and

ineffectual stab which the other make at he. foil in his attempt,

the ruffian draw back to avoid Lewis’s onset, thereby approach

incautiously too near the bank of the canal. his antagonist be not

slow to perceive the opportunity thus afford he. follow up his

retreating foe so as to prevent he from turn to perceive his danger,

he wait till the man reach the brink of the canal, then stretch

out his foot, he trip he up, and parry a second stab as he have

do the former one, push he over the bank, which at that part be

somewhat steep. a heavy fall and a loud splash in the water announce

that his stratagem have succeed, but at the same moment he feel his

throat compress by a powerful grasp, a naked stiletto flash before

he, and the eye of the young conspirator, burn with hatred and

revenge, glare at he through the darkness with the ferocity of

those of some savage animal. up to this point Lewis’s courage and

self-possession have never for a moment fail he, but now a strange,

wild idea occur to he, and a horrible dread suddenly overwhelm

he: his sense reel, his limb tremble, and for the first time

in his life he experience the mental agony of fear. instinctively he

seize the uplifted wrist of his assailant, and gaze with start

eye-ball at his face, on which the cold moonlight stream. yes! there

could be no doubt: in the feature of the being with whom he be engage

in deadly conflict he recognise a dark, shadowy, but most unmistakable

resemblance to Hardy the poacher. be it incipient madness, or be

he thus horribly to be convince of the reality of tale which he have

hitherto deem the mere drivelling of superstition?--could the dead

indeed rise from their grave to seek vengeance on their slayer?



as these thought flash meteor-like through his brain, his antagonist

make a violent but ineffectual effort to free his wrist, and this action

in great measure restore Lewis’s self-possession. ghost have not thews

and sinew, and even in that moment of peril a flush of shame at his

childish terror spread over his brow, and the impulse seem to rend

redouble vigour to his frame. consequently the struggle, though

severe, be short. superior in strength to his assailant, Lewis, having

succeed in wrest the dagger from his grasp, hurl it into the

canal, leave he completely unarmed and at his mercy. the stranger be

the first to speak. fold his arm across his breast with an air of

dog resolution, he say, speak for the first time in English, and

without the slight foreign accent--



“you be wrong to throw away that weapon; it would have do your work

as effectually and more silently than the pistol.”



“you consider your life as forfeit, then?” inquire Lewis.



“I expect you to do by I as I would have do by you,” be the concise

reply.



“I be no assassin,” return Lewis coldly; “and that remind I of

your worthy associate. you engage my attention, so that I be ignorant

whether he sink or swam.”



“never fear for honest Jacopo,” be the answer; “he follow the calling

of a gondolier when his stiletto be not in requisition, and can swim

like a fish. look yonder; he have gain the shore, and be even now

watch we.”



as he speak, Lewis observe a tall figure crouch under a project

portion of the bank of the canal.



“he will not molest you far,” continue his late antagonist; “once

foil in his spring, like the tiger, he will not renew the attack. have

he slay you I should have pay he five _zwanziger_; as it be, the

poor fellow will only get his ducking for his pain.”



“why do he follow we?” ask Lewis.



“when you enter I give he a hint not to let you pass on your return;

have he attempt to stop you, however, I believe you would shoot I,

therefore, think I could obtain your death or capture without

lose my own life, I give he a glance by which he know he be not to

interrupt you. he then ask I in the thief’ patois of this place

what he be to do, and I tell he to _follow_ we, as you be a spy. you

know the rest.”



Lewis pause for a moment, and then say abruptly, “you be an

Englishman?”



“I be.”



“you will accompany I to my room,” rejoin Lewis; “I would question

you far.”



“for what purpose?”



“that you will learn at the fitting time,” return Lewis.



“what if I refuse?”



“I will summon the police, and if you attempt to escape, I will shoot

you through the head,” be the stern rejoinder.



“I will go with you,” reply the stranger; “but I warn you I will not

be arrest: my liberty be dear to I, my life I hold cheap--so cheap

that even now, unarmed as I be, and unequal to you in muscular

strength, I be tempt again to rush on you and try the chance of a

death-struggle.”



“I would advise you not to do so,” return Lewis calmly; “besides,” he

add, “I may be more disposed to befriend you than you be aware of--it

be with no hostile purpose I thus force you to accompany I, believe

I.”



“I will trust you,” be the reply. “your look and word have, I know

not why, a strange power over I--you must possess the gift of the

_Malocchio_, which these Italians believe in--it be your glance, far

more than your pistol, which keep I silent in the chamber of meeting.”



during almost the whole of this conversation they have be walk

side by side in the direction of the street in which Lewis’s studio be

situate, and in another five minute they reach it.



“have I your word of honour that you will not again attempt my life, or

seek to escape till our interview be conclude?” ask Lewis.



“you have,” be the concise reply.



“follow I, then,” continue Lewis; and draw a key from his pocket,

he unfasten the door, enter, close it again, and accompany by the

stranger, lead the way through the painting-room into his study.









CHAPTER LVII.--WALTER see a ghost.



Lewis, having light a powerful lamp by the aid of which he be

accustomed to paint at night, be enable to take a more particular

survey of his new acquaintance than circumstance have yet permit.

he be a tall, powerfully-build stripling, with a dark complexion and

handsome feature, but although he could scarcely have number twenty

year, his face wear a prematurely old expression, and there be a wild,

reckless look in his eye which tell of a spirit ill at ease. he wear a

sailor’s dress, though the material of which it be compose be of

a fine quality than ordinary; he coldly refuse the chair which Lewis

offer he, and fold his arm across his breast, wait to be

question. Lewis in the meantime take his seat at the table, place the

pistol on the desk before he, and fix his pierce glance on the

face of his captive, began--



“my knowledge of you be this: I find you an active and zealous member of

a conspiracy to overthrow the Austrian Government in this city--one of

a set of conspirator whose first act be to be the assassination of

Colonel Marinovich, commandant of the Arsenal. as far as I be concern,

you first resolve to denounce I to your associate as a spy; foil in

that attempt, you incite an accomplice to murder I, and on his failure,

use your good endeavour to stab I yourself; in the struggle I disarm

you, and you find yourself in the power of the man for whose blood you

have be thirst. even allow, for the sake of argument, that

you be justify in seek the life of one who might betray your

treasonous design, you still remain a convict conspirator, and my

natural course would be to hand you over to the police; for your threat

of never be take alive be absurd, since you lose your stiletto I

could have capture you at any moment I please. however, the fact of

your be an Englishman interest I in your behalf, and if you will

answer my question frankly and truly, I may be induce to let you off.

in the first place, tell I who you be, and enough of your former life

to enable I to understand how I find you thus plot with foreigner

with whom you can have no feeling in common, for an evil purpose.”



“I can soon satisfy you, if that be all you require,” be the reply.

“my life have from its commencement be a curse to myself and to other.

Wrong have produce wrong; I be badly bring up, and I have turn out

badly; I be not the first that have do so, nor shall I be the last.

at the age when most child be carefully train to good, I be as

sedulously instruct in evil. at twelve year old I could swear, game,

and drink, and my instructor laugh to see the boy ape the vice of

the man. my mother die in give I birth; my father, I know not why,

never love I: he use I cruelly, and I hate he for it; so I leave my

home and work for four year on board a man-of-war. at the end of

that time the ship be pay off. seek pleasure, I fall into vicious

company; squander, and be rob of my pay, and for some week I

wander a houseless beggar through London street. the chance kindness

of a stranger rescue I from that state of wretchedness”--a peculiar

expression flit across the feature of his auditor as he mention

the fact of his rescue from beggary; not observe it, he continue:

“I then enter the merchant-service, and speedily rise to the rank

of mate. the misery I have undergone render I more careful. I save

money, study my profession, and hope in time to become a captain of a

merchantman. I embark the whole of my saving in a trading speculation

which would more than have double they, when the ship contain my

property be wreck. I be pick up by a vessel bind to this port,

and be land here again a beggar; and after try in vain to procure

any well situation, I have be force to work in the arsenal as

a common labourer to save myself from starvation. but even there my

ill-fortune and the cruelty and injustice of man follow I. peculation

to a great extent be discover amongst the workman; I be examine

before Colonel Marinovich; in vain I protest my innocence. God know

I have commit sin enough; but thieve and lying be never among

they. however, I be condemn to receive forty lash. yes, sir; I,

an Englishman, innocent of the crime of which I be accuse, be beat

like a slave by the order of a tyrannical foreigner; and now, perhaps,

you can tell what take I to the meeting to-night? it be the hope of

revenge, and there be other there with the same deadly purpose. the

man who propose the assassination of Marinovich be innocent as myself,

and like I have smart beneath the tyrant’s lash. you by reveal this

plot threaten to cheat we of our just revenge, and for that reason I

would have sacrifice your life. and now you know my history, what will

you do with I?”



there be a moment’s pause ere Lewis, fix his eye on he with a

clear, penetrate glance, say slowly and impressively, “there be a

few minor particular which appear to have escape your memory;

I will try to supply the deficiency. you be bear in the village

of B--------, in H----shire. your early instructor in evil be

the worthless character who accompany your father on his poaching

expedition. you leave home because in a drunken mood your father strike

you, and would not confess afterwards that he be sorry for so do.

you would have run away soon but for your affection for your sister

Jane. the stranger who rescue you from beggary be a young man who meet

you by chance at the door of a house in -------- Street, Russell Square;

you beg of he in Italian; the merchant-ship in which you serve,

to whose commander he give you an introduction, be the ‘beauty,’ of

Southsea, Captain Singleton, and your own name be Miles Hardy. be I not

correct in these particular?”



when Lewis begin speak his companion’s attention became rivet. as

he proceed his surprise grow deep and deeply; but when he mention

his name he spring forward, and regard he with wildly gleam eye,

exclaim, “tell I, what be you? man or devil? who thus know every

secret of my life.”



“I be no devil,” return Lewis, smile, “but a mortal like yourself;

you have see I before; look well at I; do you not recognise I?”



thus appeal to, the young man carefully scan his feature, and

then, in a low, hesitate voice, rejoin, “you be, or I be much

mistaken, the gentleman who rescue I from beggary.”



“you be right,” be the reply; “we be both much change since that

night, but I know you at the moment you seize I by the throat.”



“thank God, I do not succeed in take your life!” exclaim Miles

hardy earnestly; “you be almost the only person who have ever show I

disinterested kindness; and how have I seek to repay it! oh, sir, can

you forgive I?”



“the simple fact that you do not recognise I exonerate you from the

charge of ingratitude, my poor fellow,” return Lewis kindly; “but now

sit down. Ere I can explain to you how I gain the knowledge which have

so much surprised you, you have a long tale to listen to, and one which

will cause you much sorrow. you turn pale; wait, I will get you a glass

of wine.”



“it be nothing,” be the reply; “I have fast long; it will pass away

in a moment;” but as he speak he sink heavily into a chair which stand

beside he.



Lewis produce from a cupboard food and wine, and place they before

he, induce he to partake of some refreshment, and soon have the

satisfaction of see the light return to his eye and the colour to his

cheek. Lewis then fill for himself a glass of wine, replenish that

of his companion, and seat himself, hasten to relate to Miles Hardy

the strange train of event by mean of which he have become acquaint

with so large a portion of the young man’s history. the feeling with

which Miles Hardy listen to the account of his unhappy father’s

career, and the mingled grief and anger with which he hear how the

heritage of his mother’s shame have descend to his unfortunate sister,

may easily be imagine. Lewis strove with an amount of patient kindness,

for which those who know only the fiery side of his character would

scarcely have give he credit, to soothe the passionate emotion which

his tale excited in an auditor so deeply interested in the fortune of

those to whom it relate. after long perseverance his effort be in

some degree crown with success--Miles become more calm, and agree

with Lewis that his first duty be to seek for, and endeavour to

reclaim, his sister. his share of the legacy would furnish he with

fund sufficient to enable he to live without the necessity of daily

labour, and until his right to the money should be establish, Lewis

insist on become his banker. the next question be not so easily

arrange: Lewis inform Miles that in regard to the event of the

evening he have arrive at the following determination--viz., to call on

Colonel Marinovich, make he acquaint with the plot against his life,

beg he to inform his superior that such a conspiracy be on foot, and

explain the manner in which he have become aware of its existence; but as

far as Miles be concern in the affair, he would promise to preserve a

total silence, on one condition--namely, that he, Miles, should withdraw

from the conspiracy and engage to keep the peace in regard to the

commandant of the Arsenal. to this proposition the young man demur.



“what,” he say, “give up my just revenge!--submit to undeserved

chastisement like a beat hound, and leave it to less tame and slavish

spirit to punish the tyrant for his cruelty!--allow they to meet the

danger and divide the glory while I stand by inactive! never!”



“believe I, Miles,” return Lewis earnestly, “revenge, even just

revenge, partake of the nature of sin, and bring upon he who obtain

it the curse of an upbraid conscience. but yours be not a just

revenge; you have suffer wrong, and the sense of this blind your

judgment. I know by report the character of this Marinovich; I know he

to be a just and honourable man, though a stern disciplinarian. great

abuse have exist at the Arsenal, and it be in order to reform they

that the command be bestow on he. in your individual case he have

act unjustly, but in all probability appearance be strongly against

you, and he have not sufficient personal acquaintance with you to know

that amongst such inveterate liar as be the majority of the low

order of Venetians, your word might be rely on. his only fault be,

therefore, that he commit an error in judgment, and would you on

this account take a man’s life? besides, connive at assassination be

a cowardly proceeding, unworthy any Englishman, and especially a brave

young fellow like yourself.”



it be evident that Lewis’s reasoning be not without its effect on

he whom he address, for his brow contract, his finger close and

relaxed, his mouth quiver convulsively, and his whole demeanour be

that of a person struggle against some powerful temptation. at length

he exclaim abruptly--



“I know not how it be, you sway I like a child. I have resolve not to

rest till that man be dead, but I never before see the matter in the

light in which you have now place it. I believe that his death would

be an act of justice, and consider that, in order to obtain justice,

we must take the law into our own hand--but I feel the truth of what

you say, that assassination be cowardly; I feel it when Jacopo be

dog your footstep, and but for the cause that be at stake, could

have find in my heart to warn you.”



“then you will agree to my proposal?” inquire Lewis.



“yes, I will agree to withdraw from the conspiracy, but it be at the

risk of my life that I do so; if I be find in Venice after my desertion

be know, I be a dead man. moreover, I will promise you to abstain from

secretly attempt Marinovich’s life; but if I should ever meet he

face to face and hand to hand, I will teach he to remember having

flog an Englishman.”



Lewis feel that in his new character of Mentor he ought to combat this

openly declare resolution, but he abstain from do so, partly

because he feel it would be useless, and partly because he sympathise

so completely in the sentiment, that he could not muster sufficient

hypocrisy to reprove it. accordingly he remain satisfied with the

concession he have gain, and furnish Miles with all the information

he possess in regard to his sister, which be but vague and

unsatisfactory (a rumour that she have pass some time in Rome on her

first arrival in that country be the only trace he have yet be able

to discover of her proceeding), Lewis give he an introduction to an

agent whom he have employ to gain further tiding, and force a sum of

money upon he more than sufficient to defray his expense, hasten his

departure ere the brilliant ray of an italian sun have spread the

lustre of the come day throughout the picturesque old street and

palace-crown square of Venice.



on the following morning Lewis fulfil his intention of call on

Colonel Marinovich, who hear his recital in silence, and when he have

conclude, thank he for his information, say he be aware great

disaffection exist amongst the man employ at the Arsenal, and that

energetic measure must be take to prevent its spread far,

promise to report the discovery of the secret meeting to the Governor,

take down Lewis’s address, and politely bow he out.



having despatch a note to Charles Leicester tell he he wish to

see he, Lewis debate with himself how much of the previous night’s

adventure he should reveal to he, and at length decide that it would

be more prudent to avoid mention his encounter with and recognition

of Miles Hardy, as although he have refuse to reveal to he the name of

the seducer of his sister, yet any reference to an affair in which Lord

Bellefield have so singularly misconduct himself must necessarily be

painful to Leicester. moreover, although in his dealing with Miles

Hardy Lewis have act justly, accord to the good of his judgment,

he be by no mean clear that the law might take the same view of the

matter. Charley come--listen to his friend’s account--yawn--wonder

why he have such a strange predilection for put his life in danger,

prophesy that he would do it once too often and be sorry for

it afterwards--expect there would be a shindy in Venice before

long--wish Laura and the brat be safe in England, and that the other

people be not come--vote it all an awful bore--ask Lewis whether

he like foreign tailoring, into the merit and demerit whereof he

enter at some length--yawn again, and pat he affectionately on

the back, tell he to take well care of himself for the future, and

lounge carelessly out of the studio.



a week pass away. the Grant party have arrive; Annie, although she

make a great effort to appear in her former spirit, be evidently

labour under some ailment, mental or bodily, or both combine, which

be wear away her youth, and, as it appear, change her whole

nature. Laura, who watch she closely, observe that she be unusually

silent and abstract, fall into long reverie, from which she would

awake with a start, and glance round with a half-frightened air, would

immediately begin talk in an unnaturally excited manner, as if to do

away with any suspicion to which her silence might have give rise. her

temper also, which have be remarkable for its sweetness, have now become

uncertain, and she occasionally answer even the General with a

wayward captiousness which surprise Laura only one degree less than the

preternatural meekness with which that gallant officer submit to her

caprice and indulge she every whim; but the fact be, General Grant

have sufficient acuteness to perceive that for some cause, utterly beyond

the scope of his philosophy to account for, his daughter be not

the quiet, gentle, _will-less_ creature she have be, and that if he

require she to yield to he in great matter he must allow she to rule

in small. moreover, he have lately become seriously alarmed about her

health; a London physician whom he have consult on the subject having

plainly tell he unless great caution be observe she would go into a

decline, and warn he that the seat of the disease appear to be

in the mind, and that anything like harshness or opposition must be

avoid. Walter also be much change during the two year which have

elapse. in appearance he be now a young man, tall, and slightly but

gracefully form, with well-cut, regular feature, though a want of

intellectual expression mar what might otherwise have be consider

a handsome countenance. but considerable as be the alteration in his

personal appearance, the change in his mental capacity be equally

perceivable, his power of mind have develop to a great degree than

have be anticipate, but alas! deprive of Lewis’s firm yet gentle

rule, the improvement in his disposition have by no mean keep pace with

the extension of his faculty. for some week after Lewis have quit

Broadhurst, poor Walter could not be persuade that he would not come

back again, nor be it till the arrival of a tutor, recommend by Lord

Bellefield, that he fully realise the fact of his friend having leave

he never to return. the first effect this conviction produce upon he

be a fit of deep dejection; he refuse all attempt at consolation,

could scarcely be persuade to take nourishment, and sit hour after

hour play listlessly with the wavy curl of Faust’s shaggy coat. at

length, in order to rouse he, General Grant desire the dog to be take

away from he; the remedy prove only too effectual. the new tutor, a

certain Mr. Spooner, who appear as if he have be select because he

be in every respect the exact reverse of Lewis, be the person to whom

the General entrust this commission.



absorb in his own sad thought, Walter allow he to coax the dog

from his side by the attraction of a plate of meat, but when he lay

his hand on the animal to buckle a collar and chain round his neck, he

start up, exclaiming--



“what be you go to do with Faust? he be never tie up; let he

alone.” find that his remonstrance be not attend to, he continue,

“Faust! faust! come here, sir, directly.”



the dog struggle to obey, but Mr. Spooner, having fasten the chain

round his neck, endeavour to force he out of the room, and in do

so step accidentally on Faust’s toe, who utter a shrill yelp of

pain. Walter’s eye flash.



“you be hurt he,” he cry; “how dare you!” and without wait for

a reply, he dart across the room, seize the astonish Mr. Spooner,

who, unfortunately for himself, happen to be a small, slightly-frame

man, by the throat, and shake he till his tooth chatter; then

suddenly release he, he snatch the chain from his grasp, and

lead the dog away, mutter in a threatening tone--



“never you touch Faust again; if you do, I’ll strangle you.”



the result of this scene be twofold: Walter have rebel and gain

his point, and the person whom he have thus conquer have lose all

chance of obtain that degree of ascendency over he without which his

control must become merely nominal. this produce, as might be expect,

the bad possible effect upon poor Walter’s disposition. he become

positive and wilful in the extreme, and his tutor, partly to save

himself trouble, partly to avoid any outbreak of temper, give way to

he on every occasion; unless, indeed, he have any particular personal

interest at stake, when he seek to gain his point by cajolery and

manoeuvring, and be rather an adept in those ingenious art, be

usually successful.



one new and inconvenient caprice of Walter’s be a dislike which he

appear suddenly to have take to Annie Grant, which display itself

in various way: sometimes he would avoid all intercourse with she, even

sulkily refuse to answer she when she speak to he; at other he would

seek she out and endeavour to annoy she by say what he deem sharp

thing. occasionally, however, he would fall into his old habit, and

confide in she as his playmate, from whom he be sure of sympathy

and assistance; when suddenly, perhaps, even in the midst of some

conversation with she, he would appear to recollect his new-bear

animosity, and his manner would entirely alter. one thing invariably

excite his extreme indignation, and this be any attempt on her part

to caress or notice Faust. the pain this alter demeanour cause Annie

(perhaps in consequence of some theory which she have form as to its

origin) be know but to her own heart, and could be guess at merely

by her unwearye effort to conciliate poor Walter. Laura, upon whose

quick-sightedness nothing be lose, carefully note these change, and

make her own private comment upon they. in pursuance of her design of

befriend Lewis, she make several attempt to penetrate the veil of

reserve which hang around Annie Grant; but in vain: with her lightness

of heart seem also to have depart her openness of disposition, and

Laura have too much good taste, as well as too much sympathy with her

grief, to endeavour to force her confidence. at length one day, as Laura

and Annie be sit together, Laura work zealously at some article

of juvenile finery, destine unconsciously to foster the seed of

incipient dandyism already apparent in that embryo man-about-town

“Tarley,” and Annie listlessly turn over the page of a novel, from

which her thought be far away, the eld lady suddenly break silence

by observing--



“‘Tarley’ will be two year old to-morrow; how the time slip away, it

really seem impossible!”



Annie’s only reply be a deep sigh, and Laura continued--



“why, Annie, you’ll be of age in a month--four short week more, and you

will actually have arrive at year of discretion. how wise you ought to

be!”



Finding Annie still remain silent, Laura only wait till she have

pass some interesting crisis in her stitching, and then look up. to

her alarm and surprise she behold the “big tear” silently course each

other down her friend’s pale cheek: in an instant she be by her side.



“Annie, dearest,” she say, “you be weep; what be it? have I say or

do anything to pain you?”



Annie slightly shake her head in token of dissent, and make an effort to

check her tear, which prove ineffectual, eventuate in a bitter sob.

Laura could not stand the sight of her grief; throw her arm round

she, she said--



“Annie, you be miserable; I see, I know you be; and your unhappiness

be wear you to death. why will you not confide in I? perhaps I might

help you. what be it, darling? will you not tell I?” she pause for

a reply, but obtain none, continue: “this marriage with Lord

Bellefield, it be distasteful to you, I be afraid?”



a shudder which pass through poor Annie’s frame as Laura mention the

name of her intended husband prove that on this point her suspicion

have not err. fancy she now see her way more clearly--



“Dearest,” she resume, “do not afflict yourself thus; you must not,

shall not marry he. I will speak to the General myself. Charles shall

write to his brother; you shall not be sacrifice.”



“hush! hush!” interrupt Annie, struggle to recover composure; “you

do not know what you say. I _must_ marry he; there be no alternative.”



“do not say so, Annie,” return Laura gravely; “marriage be a sacred

thing, not lightly to be enter into; and in marriage one requisite

alone be indispensable--love! taste may differ, fault of temper or

disposition may exist; yet if man and wife truly love each other, they

will be very happy; but to marry without love be a grievous sin, and it

entail its own punishment--wretchedness.”



Laura speak solemnly and with feeling, and her companion, as she

listen, tremble and turn pale. when she have conclude, however,

Annie merely shake her head, repeat hopelessly--



“it _must_ be--it _must_ be!”



“and, pray, why must it be?” ask Laura quickly, for she be becoming

slightly provoke at that which she deem Annie’s childish weakness,

the only fault, perhaps, with which her clear head, warm heart, and

earnest, zealous nature unfit she to sympathise. “why, if the thing

be wrong in itself, and be to render you miserable, _must_ it be? at

all event let we make some effort to prevent it; suffer Charles and

me----”



“Dearest Laura,” interrupt Annie mournfully, “I assure you nothing can

be do; any attempt to break off the match now would be unavaile and

only end in make I still more wretched than I be at present.”



annoy alike at her perseverance in that which Laura could not but

consider a culpable want of moral courage, and at the way in which she

still withhold her confidence, while at the same time the idea occur

to she, though she be vex with herself for admit it, that one so

feeble-minded be no fitting bride for the high-soule, brave-hearte

Lewis, the spirited little matron be about to utter a somewhat sharp

reply, when, glance at Annie’s pale, beautifully-form feature,

the expression of deep anguish she read there disarm she, and merely

say, “we take different view of this matter, Annie dear, and must

talk of it again when we be both more compose,” she rise and leave the

apartment.



Annie wait until the sound of the closing door assure she that she

be alone, and then murmur, “she too be angry with I and despise

I--nobody love I. oh, that I be dead!” »he hide her face in the sofa

cushion and give way to a passionate burst of grief.



now there be one of our _dramatis personæ_ for whom we have reason to

believe many of our reader entertain a warm regard--a regard in which

we confess ourselves fully to participate--of whom we have lately hear

but little; of course we refer to that most “meritorious individual,”

 that dog of dog, dear, honest old Faust. since Lewis have quit

Broadhurst Faust’s character, like those of his better (if mortal

_be_ well than dog), have in a degree alter. the blind,

unhesitate obedience he have be accustom to pay to his master’s

slight signal he accord to no other person; if Walter call he

he would come, it be true, but he would do so in the calm, leisurely,

dignified manner in which one gentleman would comply with the request

of another. towards the General he conduct himself with a degree of

respectful hauteur which seem to say, “we be not friend; there be no

sympathy between we, but as long as I continue to reside in a family of

which you be the head, I owe it to myself to render you the amount of

courtesy due to your position.” for Mr. Spooner, the usurper who have

dare to succeed his beloved master, he show a most unmitigated

contempt, totally ignore all his command, and resent any attempt

on his part to enforce his authority by the utterance of a low, deep

growl, accompany by a formidable display of sharp white tooth. towards

Annie alone do he evince any great affection, which he show chiefly

by attend she in her walk and take up his position under the

sofa, or close to the chair on which she be sit--demonstration of

attachment which, as we have already hint, be for some unexplained

reason a source of considerable annoyance to Walter. during the

conversation between Laura and Annie, Faust have be lie unnoticed

under the sofa, and now find his young mistress alone, and for some

cause or other unhappy (he know _that_ quite well), it occur to he

that the correct thing would be to come out and comfort she, which he

attempt to do by lay his great rough head in her lap, wag his

tail encouragingly, and lick her hand. in her loneliness of heart

even the poor dog’s sympathy (endear to she as he be by a thousand

cherish recollection) be a relief to Annie, and stoop down she

imprint a kiss on his shaggy head, whisper as she do so, “good

Faust--you have never forsake I!” at this moment the door open,

and Walter enter hastily. as his eye fall upon Annie and the dog his

cheek flushed, and he exclaim hastily--



“Annie, I wish you’d let Faust alone; how often have I tell you that I

willn’t have he meddle with?”



with a start at this sudden interruption Annie hastily raise herself,

and push the dog gently from she, said--



“Dear Walter, do not be angry; Faust come and lick my hand, you would

not have I unkind to he?”



“oh! it’s Faust’s fault, be it?” return Walter crossly. “Faust, come

here! take he to our room, Mr. Spooner, and keep he there till I come;

he shall not stay in the drawing-room if he do what I don’t like.

Faust, do you hear I, sir?”



“he will never follow I, Sir Walter; it’s no use call he,”

 remonstrate Mr. Spooner.



“he will do as I tell he, and so will you too,” return Walter

imperiously, and twist his handkerchief, he tie it round the dog’s

neck, lead he to the door, give the end of the leash thus form to Mr.

Spooner, and then fairly turn the pair of they out of the room. having

accomplish this feat, he stroll listlessly to the fireplace, and

amuse himself by pull about the ornament on the chimney-piece for

some minute. at length a new idea seem to strike he, and turn to

his companion, he said--



“do you know why I be so angry with Faust just now?”



“because I be pet he, I suppose, as you don’t seem to like I to

do so,” return Annie.



“ah! that be not all, though,” rejoin Walter; “I want he

particularly to have be with I when I be out walk to-day, very

particularly.”



“yes, and why be that?” inquire Annie, who always encourage he to

talk to she, in the hope of overcome the dislike which he have take

to she, and which, for many reason, pain she inexpressibly. Walter

remain for a minute or two silent, and then come close to she, he

ask in a low whisper--



“Annie, do you believe in ghost?”



“my dear Walter, what an odd question,” return Annie in surprise; “why

do you ask it?”



Walter glance carefully round the room, to assure himself that they

be alone ere he reply, in the same low, awe-stricken whisper,

“because, if there be such thing, I think I’ve see one.”



“silly boy,” rejoin Annie, anxious to reassure he, for she see that

he be really frightened, “you have fancy it. what be your ghost

like, pray?”



“promise you willn’t tell anybody.”



Annie, half amuse, half puzzle by the boy’s earnestness, give the

require pledge. as soon as she have do so, Walter, stoop down so as

to bring his mouth on a level with her ear, replied--



“it be the ghost of Mr. Arundel!”



overcome by so unexpected a reply, Annie be a moment or so before

she could find word to inquire, “my dear Walter, what could make you

imagine such a thing? perhaps you be asleep, and dream it--when be

it?”



“no, I be not asleep; and it be not fancy,” return Walter gravely.

“I be out walk this morning early with Mr. Spooner, and we lose

our way, and after try for some time to find it, Mr. Spooner hire a

boat, and tell the boatman to set we down near--near--well, I forget the

name, but he mean near here. when we get out, we have to go through some

narrow passage between the different street, and in one of they, which

be very dark because of the high house, we meet a figure of a man, very

tall, and wrap in a long black cloak; it draw back to let we pass,

and just as I get close to it it turn its head, and I see the face; it

be stem and dark, and wear a black beard, but the beautiful eye be

the same, and when I see they I know it be Mr. Arundel, or,” he add,

sink his voice, “his ghost!”



as his companion remain silent, he continue, “when I see who it be,

I stop, and be just go to speak, but at that moment he stare

hard at I, give a violent start, and before I could do anything to

prevent it, vanish through a dark archway.”



“oh! you must have mistake some one for he,” return Annie,

struggle for composure--“Mr. Arundel be probably in England, and

ghost be out of the question; besides, if there be such thing, which

I much doubt, they only appear after people be dead.”



Walter consider for a minute, and then meet the difficulty by

consolatorily suggest, “perhaps dear Mr. Arundel _be_ dead--perhaps

he grow so unhappy that he could not live without ever see Faust and

I, and--ah! Annie, how could you be so cruel as to send he away?”



“I send he away, Walter! what can have put such a strange notion into

your head?” exclaim Annie, astonish at the accusation.



“yes you do,” return Walter vehemently; “he go away because he

love you and you would not love he--it be very cruel of you, and

I hate you for it whenever I remember how unkind you have be,” and

overcome by his feeling, the poor boy burst into tear.



a thousand confused thought flash like lightning across Annie’s

brain. what could he mean?--was she listen to the mere folly

of idiocy, or could he indeed have any possible foundation for his

assertion? anxious to soothe he, she lay her hand caressingly

upon his, while, reply rather to her own heart than to his last

observation, she said--



“no, my poor Walter, he whom you so much regret never love I.”



“ah, but he do, though,” return Walter positively, dry his

tears--“I _know_ it.” he speak so decidedly that Annie, despite her

reason, could not but feel curious to hear more, and turn away her

head to hide her agitation, she ask in a low voice--



“how do you know?”



“if I tell you, you must never tell the General or anybody,” return

Walter--“people think I’m a fool, and I know I be not clever, and cann’t

learn like other boy, and sometimes I feel a weight just here,” and

he press his hand to his forehead, “and then all my sense go out--I

wonder where it go to, Annie--do you think it find wing and fly up

to heaven among the white angel? I think so sometimes, and then I long

to be a bird and fly with it.” too much interested to allow he to

fall into a new train of thought, Annie recall his wandering idea by

saying--



“you be talk about Mr. Arundel, Walter dear.”



“oh yes, and about you, I remember,” resume Walter. “I know, at least

I think, he be very fond of you a long time ago, but I be not quite

sure of it till one day when I dress Faust up like a gentleman, with

Mr. Arundel’s watch, and you take it off the dog’s neck, and then you

throw your arm round he and kiss he as you do just now--that be

what make I angry when I remember about the first time--well, while

you be hug Faust, Mr. Arundel come to the door and see you, though

you do not see he, and his eye dance and sparkle, and his mouth

melt into such a sweet smile; he be so glad to see how fond you be

of Faust, and then I know he love you, for if he have not, he would not

have care about it, you know. then he go away and leave I Faust, and

I think because he have leave Faust he be sure to come back, but I know

now that he leave he to comfort I, and go away himself all alone.

then that stupid Mr.. Spooner come; he’s a great friend of Lord

Bellefield’s, and one day they be talk together, and they fancy

I do not attend to they, but I do though, for I know they be talk

about Mr. Arundel. well, Mr. Spooner ask why he go away, and Lord

Bellefield reply, ‘why, if the truth must be tell, he have the audacity

(what do that mean?) to raise his eye to my cousin Annie.’ Mr.

Spooner question he far, and he inform he that Mr. Arundel have

go boldly to the General, and say he love you.”



“tell my father so!” exclaim Annie.



“yes, so he say,” resume Walter; “and the General tell he you love

Lord Bellefield instead, and mean to be his wife; and then poor Mr.

Arundel say he would go away, and so he do, but of course if you have

love he he would have stay, and we should all have be so happy

together. so you see, Annie, it _be_ you that send he away, and since

I’ve know that I’ve hate you, and try to keep Faust from love you,

only he will, and I cann’t hate you quite always; but I never mean to

tell you all this, and you must never tell Lord Bellefield, or he would

be ready to kill I.”



he pause, then regard she with a sad, regretful look, he say,



“but, Annie, be it really true that you don’t love dear Mr. Arundel?”

 Poor Annie! affect and excited as she have be by the foregoing scene,

this last speech be too much for she, and throw her arm about

the boy’s neck, and hide her burn cheek against his breast, she

whisper, “Dearest Walter, do not hate I! _you have no cause to do

so!_”









chapter LVIII.--CONTAINS MUCH plotting and COUNTERPLOTTING.



it be the evening of the Tuesday in Epsom week, the day before the

Derby. Lord Bellefield, though outwardly calm, be inwardly a prey

to the most painful mental excitement. his lordship have meet with a

continue run of ill-fortune latterly--everything he have attempt have

turn out badly: if he bet on a race, the horse he back invariably

lose; if he play, card and dice equally declare against he; he have

lavish hundred in present to a new opera dancer, and at the moment

in which he deem his suit successful she have elope with a young,

rich, and handsomer man; his tradesman begin to mistrust he and to

dun he unpleasantly; several of his intimate to whom he owe money

grow cool and eye he suspiciously; his extravagance have reach his

father’s ear, and Lord Ashford have not only venture to remonstrate

with he, but apparently bent on add insult to injury, have cite the

example of his young brother, Charles Leicester (whom from his heart

he despise), and hold he up as a pattern for his imitation, while Lord

Bellefield be force to bear this lecturing patiently; for although

the estate be entail, his father have be a careful man, and be

possess of a large personalty which he could leave to whom he please.

the only piece of good luck to set against all this “monstrous quantity”

 of vexation be the admirable promise display by the Dodona Colt.

this exemplary quadrupe, now individualise by the name of “Oracle,”

 appear to have be bear with a metaphorical silver spoon in its

delicate mouth, for from the moment in which its four black leg

(suggestive of its future fleetness, for black-leg be invariably

_fast_) put their foot into this uncomfortable world everything have

prosper with it. the breeder be astonish at it, the groom who

watch over its infancy be delighted with it; Turnbull, the trainer,

be so impressed by its merit that he never could speak of it without a

volley of the strong oath in his vocabulary, by which expletive he

be accustom (transpose a certain poetical dictum) to _strengthen_

his praise of anything which be so fortunate as to win his approval;

and by the united kind regard of all these worthy this favourite of

nature have grow in public opinion until it now hold the proud position

of first favourite for the Derby. Lord Bellefield be by this time no

new hand upon the turf; on the contrary, by dint of having be cheat,

and associate with those who have cheat he, for several year, he

have acquire, besides a sort of prescriptive diploma to _do_ as he have

be _do_, a considerable insight into the mystery of the training

stable as well as the bet ring. he be therefore habitually

cautious; but in the present instance all his acquire knowledge and

natural acuteness coincide with the opinion of his underling, to

prove to he that in the Dodona Colt he have indeed draw a rare prize;

and that if he could but ensure that which our sanguine country be

popularly suppose to expect--viz., that “every man should do his duty,”

 his horse, and none other, must be winner of the Derby. accordingly, all

the power of his intellect (which, although not enlarge, be subtle

and acute) be now direct to two point--viz., first, to take all

precaution to ensure that his horse should be fairly deal by; and

secondly, to make such a book on the event as might retrieve his

bankrupt fortune. this last feat he have succeed in accomplish even

beyond his utmost wish; and accustom as he be to hazard large sum

upon the cast of a die, he begin to grow alarmed at the magnitude of the

stake for which he be about to contend.



having dine in town at his club, he return to his luxurious bachelor

_ménage_ in ---------- Street, and desire that he might not be

disturb, draw out his bet-book, examine it carefully, go

through the calculation again and again, refer to the late

odd--and then close it with a sigh, muttered, “yes, they be all safe

man, man who will pay to the hour, and if Oracle run true, this curse

load of debt will be wipe off, and--I shall be rich enough to begin

afresh and contract a new one!--if! ay, there’s the rub--if!” he stride

up and down the room. “I be wretchedly nervous to-night,” he exclaim,

ring the bell. “bring brandy,” he continue as the servant

appear; then fill a wine-glass, he drink it off as if it have be

water--“leave it,” he say; then resume his walk, add, “it _must_

go right--there be not a horse that can come near he; Tartuffe be the

only one that have a chance, and Turnbull swear he be safe to lose;

he witness the private trial himself, and the colt win by a head,

carry 5 lbs. extra weight. that amusement cost I £50 to bribe

Austerlitz’s trainer to allow the trial to take place. true, Turnbull

may have lie--and yet why should he? he owe everything to I--though

that have nothing to do with it--gratitude, if there be such a quality,

be simply prospective--man be grateful to those only from whom they

expect favour. well, even thus, Turnbull be bind to I hand and

foot; besides, I know he have back the colt heavily himself: bar

accident, then, against which no foresight can provide, and of which

therefore it be useless to think, I stand safe to win. and yet it be

a frightful sum to hazard on the uncertainty of a horse-race. if I

should lose, I must either blow out my brain like poor Mellerton, or

quit the country, marry Annie Grant, and live abroad on her money till

my father die--and he’s as likely to last twenty year long as I be.

I scarcely know which alternative be preferable. what an infernal fool

I’ve be to bring myself into this scrape; but when a man have such

a run of ill-luck against he as I have be curse with for the last

year, what be he to do?” he pause, stretch himself wearily, and

then glance at a gilt clock on the chimney-piece, mutter, “twelve

o’clock; I must be up early to-morrow and keep a clear head--I’ll smoke

a cigar and turn in.” at this moment the house-bell ring sharply, and

Lord Bellefield start like a guilty thing. with an oath at this fresh

proof of his nervousness, he fill and drink a second glass of brandy,

then stand listen with a degree of eager anxiety which, despite his

effort, he could not restrain. door open and shut, and at length a

servant appear.



“what be it?” exclaim Lord Bellefield before the man could speak.



“a person wish particularly to see your lordship,” be the reply.



“say I be engage, and can see no one; I think I tell you I would not

be disturb,” return his master angrily; “stay,” he continue, as a

new idea strike he, “what kind of person be it?”



“he desire I to inform your lordship that his name be Turnbull,” be

the answer.



with an oath at the man’s stupidity, Lord Bellefield desire he to

admit the visitor instantly.



“well, Turnbull,” he exclaim eagerly as the trainer enter, “what be

it, man?”



thus adjure, Turnbull, a tall, stout-build fellow, with a clever but

disagreeable expression of countenance glance carefully round the

room to assure himself that they be alone, and then approach Lord

Bellefield, begin, “why, you see, my lud, I think I’d well lose no

time, for there ain’t too many hour between now and tomorrow’s race,

so I jump on to my ’ack, canter over to the rail, ’ail a

’Ansom’s cab, and ’ere I be.”



“nothing amiss, eh? nothing wrong with the colt?” ask Lord Bellefield

with an affectation of indifference, though any one who have watch he

closely might have see that he turn very pale.



“no, bless his eye, he’s as right as a trivet, and as playful and

impudent as--as a brick,” continue Mr. Turnbull, rather at a loss for

a sufficiently eulogistic simile; “it be only this morning he take up

little Bill the ’elper by the waistband of his indispentionable and

shuk he like a tarrier would a rat. it would have do your ludship’s

’art good to have see he; he’ll come out to-morrow as fresh as

paint, bless his bone.”



“well then, what be it, if Oracle be all right?” return his employer,

greatly relieve.



“why, unfortunately there’s somebody else as have get a ’orse as be

all right too, and I’m afraid we ain’t quite so sure of the race as we

fancy we be,” be the dispirit reply.



“why, I think you have satisfy yourself that there be not a horse

that could run near he. you tell I he beat Tartuffe carry 5 lbs.

extra weight.”



“ay, so I believe; but the sharp of we be do sometimes. it’s

a wicked cross-bred world to live in, and a man need be wide-awaker

than--than one o’clock, to be down to all their move.” so say, the

discomfited trainer rub his nose as if to brighten his wit, and

continue, “the truth be this, my lud--one of my groom cum to I this

morning, and say if I would stand a soveraign between he and one of

his mate, he would tell I something as I ought to know. well, see

as this race be rather a peculiar one, and as any little mistake might

turn out unpleasant----”



“what do you mean, sir?” interrupt Lord Bellefield, draw himself up

with a haughty gesture.



“nothing, my lud, nothing,” return Turnbull obsequiously, “only as our

colt stand first favourite, and as we’ve make our calcilation to win,

I think the californian farthing would not be throw away. accord

he bring up his mate, as he call he, which be the hidentical boy

as first ride the colt, and he confess that he and the boy that ride

Tartuffe have meet one day when they be out a exercising, and just for

their own amusement they give ’em a three-mile gallop. they run very

near together, but Tartuffe beat our colt by above a length; that he’d

see the trial afterwards, and that he know from the difference in

Tartufife’s run that he be not ride fair, or be overweighte, or

something. well, my lud, this information bother I, and make I feel

suspicious that some move have be try on which we be not up to, and

while I be scheme how to cipher it out, the same boy cum again,

and tell I that the lad that ride Tartuffe at the second trial be a

keep company along with his sister, and that he think she might

worm something out of he if she could be get to try. accordingly I

send for the gal, and between bribe, coax, and frightening she,

persuade she to undertake the job. she have some trouble with the young

feller, but she be a sharp, clever gal, and she never leave he till she

drag it out of he.”



“drew what out of he?” interrupt Lord Bellefield, unable to restrain

his impatience; “cann’t you come to the point at once? you’ll distract I

with your prosing.”



“well, the long and short of it be, as I see your ludship’s get in a

hurry (and, indeed, there ain’t no time to be lose), the long and short

of it be, that they’ve bin and turn the table upon we: while we put 5

lbs. extra weight on our horse, they shove 8 lbs. on theirs.”



“then Tartuffe run within a head of the colt carry 3 lbs. extra,”

 exclaim Lord Bellefield, “and of course without that disadvantage

would again have beat he.”



“I think Oracle be a well horse now than he be at the time the trial

cum off,” be the reply, “but the race ain’t the safe thing I think

it. it’s rather a ticklish chance to trust to, if your ludship’s get at

all a heavy book upon the ewent.”



as he make this uncomfortable acknowledgment the trainer leer

inquiringly with his cunning little eye at his employer.



Lord Bellefield do not immediately answer; but lean his elbow on the

chimney-piece, remained bury in thought, his pale cheek and the eager

quivering of his under lip, which from time to time he unconsciously bite

till the mark of his tooth remain in blood upon it, alone testify

the mental suffering he experience. Ruin and disgrace be before he.

nor be this all. the Duc d’Austerlitz, a young foreigner who, bite

with Anglo-mania, have purchase a racing stud and be the owner of

Tartuffe, happen to be the individual before allude to as Lord

Bellefield’s successful rival in the venial affection of the

fascinating _danseuse_. he hate he, accordingly, with an intensity

which would have secure he the approbation of the good-hater-love

Dr. Johnson. if anything, therefore, be want to render the

intelligence he have just receive doubly irritate to he, this fact

supply the deficiency. his lordship, however, possess one element of

greatness--his spirit invariably rise with difficulty, and the great

the emergency the more cool and collect do he become. having remain

silent for some minute, he observe quietly, “I suppose, Turnbull, you,

be a shrewd, clever fellow in your way, scarcely come here merely

to tell I this. you be perfectly aware that, rely upon your

information and judgment, I have make a heavy book on this race, and

can imagine that, however long my purse may be, I shall find it more

agreeable to win than to lose. you have, therefore, I be sure, some

expedient to propose. in fact, I read in your face that it be so.”



the man smile.



“your ludship I always know to have a sharp eye for a good horse or a

pretty gal,” he say, “but you _must_ be wide awake if you can read a

man’s thought in his face. it ain’t such an easy matter to say what be

good to do; if your ludship make rather too heavy a book on the race, I

should recommend a little careful hedging to-morrow morning.”



Lord Bellefield shake his head. “too late to make anything of it,” he

reply, “that be, of course, I might save myself from any very heavy

loss, but I must have money--a--in fact, I stand so fair to win largely

by this race, that hedging will be quite a _derni ressort_. but you

have some well scheme than that to propose.”



“if your ludship be at a loss how to act, it be not likely that any plan

of mine will do the trick,” be the reply.



whether or not Turnbull wish to provoke his employer, certain it

be his speech produce that effect, for with an oath Lord Bellefield

exclaimed--



“what be it you be aim at? if it be money you be stand out

for, you have only to prevent Tartuffe from start, and name your own

price.”



“why, you see, it might be as well to let he start; man have be

transport for interfere with a race ’orse to purwent his

starting--but he need not win the Derby for all that,” be the

enigmatical reply.



Lord Bellefield’s lip curl with a sardonic smile; his knowledge of

human nature have not then deceive he--Turnbull have some scheme _in

petto_, and be only wait to secure the good market for it.



“I suppose £1000 will satisfy you?” he say; and as the trainer bow

his gratitude, continue, “you be certain your plan cannot fail? what

be it you propose?”



“why, you see, my lud, ’orse be like ’uman creetur in many

respecs,” reply Turnbull sententiously; “there’s some thing as agree

with their stummick, and some as disagree with ’em; the thing

that agree with the hanimal make ’em run fast, the thing that

disagree make they run slow, or if you give it ’em too strong they

come to a standstill all together. now, if so be as Tartuffe be to

have a taste of a certain drug as I know on--that ain’t very different

from hopium--give to he afore he go to sleep to-night, he’ll come to

the start post all right and run very respectible, but if he beat

our ’orse I’ll engage to eat he, saddle and all. I cann’t speak fair

than that, I expect.”



“and who have you fix upon to execute this piece of delectable

rascality?” inquire Lord Bellefield, unable to repress a sneer at the

meanness of the villainy by which, however, he be only too glad to

profit.



“it be not a very easy matter to pitch upon the right man,” rejoin

the trainer, “but luckily I happen to remember a party that seem as

if he’d be bear a purpose for the job, and who have be so thoroughly

clean out lately that he be not likely to be particular about

trifle. I see he before I leave home, show he which way his interest

lay, put he up to my idea on the subject, and I hope when I see your

ludship to-morrow morning I shall have some good news to tell you.”



“I’ll be with you early, before people be about,” return Lord

Bellefield; “it be important that I should know the result of this

scheme as soon as possible. the great caution must be observe lest

the matter should transpire, and if anything come out, you of course

must take it upon yourself. the man should go abroad for a time. and now

I must try and get a couple of hour’ sleep, or my head will not be fit

for to-morrow’s work. I breakfast at Epsom with a set of man, but I’ll

be with you first. you’ve act with your usual zeal and cleverness,

Turnbull, and I’ll take care that you shall have no reason to repent

your honesty to your employer; only let we win to-morrow’s race and your

fortune be make. good-night.”



as he speak he ring the bell, and with many servile acknowledgment of

his master’s promise liberality the trainer depart.



while this interview be take place a far different scene have

be enact in the premise occupy by the race stud of the Due

d’Austerlitz. as the clock over the stable chime the hour after

midnight a light ladder be place against the wall of one of the outer

building, and a slightly-frame, agile man run up it, and draw it

cautiously after he lay it in a place of security, where it would

remain unnoticed till his return. he then creep with noiseless, catlike

step over roof and along parapet, find among rain-gutter and

coping-stone a dangerous and uncertain footing, until he reach a

building nearly in the centre of the yard; here he pause, and draw

from his pocket a short iron instrument, shape like a chisel at one

end, he cautiously chip away the mortar round one of the tile which

protect an angle of the roof, and by remove the tile, expose the

end of a row of slating. quietly raise one of the slate, he,

by mean of the instrument above allude to, which be know to the

initiate by the euphonious title of a “jemmy,” snap the nail which

retain it in its place and remove it. having act in a similar

manner by two other, he produce a small cabinetmaker’s saw, and

cut through the batten, open a space sufficiently wide to admit

the passage of a man’s body. replace his tool, he creep through the

aperture thus effect, and let himself down by his hand into the

loft beneath, drop noiselessly on to some truss of hay place there

for future consumption. part of his task be now accomplish, for he

be in the loft over the loose-box in which Tartuffe be repose his

graceful limb before the come struggle; but the most difficult and

hazardous portion of his enterprise remain yet to be accomplish.

crawl on his hand and knee, he reach one of the opening by which

the hay be let down into the rack beneath, and cautiously peep

over, gaze into the interior of the stable itself, and note the

precaution take to secure the safety of the racehorse and the

difficulty which lie before he. the box in which the animal be

place be secure by a strong padlock, the key of which rest at that

moment under the pillow of Slangsby, the due d’Austerlitz’s trainer,

while in the next box, half-lie, half-sit on a truss of straw,

doze “Yorkshire Joe,” a broad-shoulder, bowlegge lad some eighteen

year of age, who have be a kind of equestrian valet to Tartuffe during

the whole “educational course” of that promising quadrupe.



these particular the intelligent eye of the tenant of the hay-loft take

in at a glance, while his quick wit decide as rapidly the exact degree

in which they be calculate to tell for or against the object he

seek to accomplish. the padlock be in his favour; for as he do not

intend to enter the horse-box by the door, it would serve to keep

Joe out without interfere with his design; but the presence of the

stable-boy present an insuperable obstacle to his further proceeding.

this difficulty have, however, be foresee and provide against.

steal on tiptoe across the loft, he select a long, stout straw, and

thrust it through the key-hole of the door by which the fodder be

take in, he suffer it to drop on the outside. Scarcely have he do

so, when a low cough announce the presence of some confederate, and

satisfied that everything be in a right train, he noiselessly return

to his post of observation. in another moment his quick ear catch the

sound of a modest tap at the stable-door. honest Joe’s sense not be

equally on the alert, the knock have to be repeat more than once ere he

become aware of it. as soon as he grow convinced that the sound be

not the creation of his sleep fancy, he rub his eye, stretch

himself, and drowsily inquire, “who’s there?”



“it be I--Mary; and I want particularly to speak to you,” reply a

woman’s voice.



“Thy want must wait till morning, lass; for I’m not a-goaing to leave

this place to-night for nothink nor nobody; so gang thee whoam agin,”

 be the uncourteous reply.



“no, but Joe, dear Joe, you must hear I to-night; it be something very

important indeed. you _must_ hear I,” plead the temptress.



“I woan’t, I tell thee; gangwhoam!” return Joe gruffly.



“well, if I’d think you’d have be so unkind, I would not have

stay out of my warm bed, trapese through Hepsom street at this time

o’night, which ain’t fit for a respecktible young woman to be out in,

and come all this way to put you up to something as may lose you

your place, and bad, if you ain’t tell of it. I don’t expect sich

unkindness--and from you, too; that I don’t;” and here a sound akin to

a sob, apparently indicate that the speaker be weep, find its

way to Joe’s ear, and go thence straight to his honest, unsuspicious

heart, overcome his prudence and conquer his resolution. rise from

his seat, he approach the door and listen; the sob still continue.



“Mary, lass, what ail thee?” he say; “I don’t mean to anger thee,

wench! but thee knoas I dare na leave t’horse; besoid t’stable-dour be

lock, and maister’s get t’key.”



“and cann’t you come to the window in the further stable, where we’ve

talk many a time before?” suggest the siren. “it’s something about

the horse I want to tell you, a dodge they’re go to try to prevent

his win to-morrow. you don’t think I’d have come out at this time

o’night for nothing, do you, stupey?” this intelligence chase away

Joe’s last linger scruple, and muttering--



“about t’horse!--why do na thee say so afore?” he light a hand-lantern at

the lamp which hang from the ceiling, and assure himself by a glance

that his charge be in safety, quit the stable by a side-door.



in the meantime, the occupant of the loft have not be idle. as soon as

Joe became engross by the forego conversation, the sound of a fine

saw at work might have be perceive by a more delicate organisation

than that of the sturdy groom; and at the moment in which he leave the

stable two of the bar of the rack be silently remove, and through

the opening thus effect a man cautiously lower himself, and rest

his foot for an instant on the manger, drop lightly into the box

occupy by Tartuffe.



[illustration: 0442]



this feat be accomplish so quietly, that the horse, which happen

not to be lie down, but be stand, try, through its muzzle, to

nibble the straw of its bed, be scarcely startle, merely raise

its head and stare at its unexpected visitant. this individual now

produce from his mysterious pocket a handful of oat, and hold they

out, allow Tartuffe to smell and nibble at they; while the animal be

thus engage, he remove the muzzle, wear for the purpose of prevent

it from eat its litter, or otherwise gain access to any food of

which the trainer might disapprove. his next proceeding be to draw out

that ingenious instrument of torture clepe a twitch, which, for the

benefit of those of our lady reader who do not happen to be gift

with “a stable mind,” or to have encourage sporting tendency, we

may describe as a short, thick stick or handle, about two foot long,

terminate by a loop of stout whipcord or leather, into which the

upper-lip, or occasionally the ear of the horse, be insert; then,

by twist the stick, the loop can be tighten so as to produce any

amount of agony the inflicter may desire: the philosophy of the matter

be, that the animal find his struggle exactly double his pain,

soon have sense enough to choose the lesser of two evil, and therefore

stand still while nasty thing be be force down his throat and

other liberty take with he, which, but for the application of the

twitch, he would actively resent. in the present instance, while the

unfortunate Tartuffe be still chew the oats by which his confidence

have be betray, the twitch be fix on his nose, tighten, and

the nauseating ball which be to impair his strength and fleetness, and

secure the victory to the Dodona Colt, and fortune to Lord Bellefield,

be already in his mouth ere he be aware that any incivility be

intend he. to give a horse a ball, however, it be not only necessary

to put it into its mouth but to thrust it back as far as, if possible,

the entrance of the gullet, and this operation, even when perform

in the most skilful manner, be by no mean easy to the operator or

agreeable to the patient. in this last particular the victimise

Tartuffe appear to be entirely of our opinion; the blood of his noble

ancestor stir within he, and toss up his head indignantly, he

become practically aware of the full virtue of the twitch; the pain,

however, only serve to increase his rage, and he attempt to rear; but

his struggle be vain; his tormentor pertinaciously clung to he, the

ball be thrust far back in the mouth, and in another moment the

desire object would have be attain, when suddenly the loop of the

twitch, unable to bear the strain upon it, snap. the first use the

racehorse make of his freedom be to shake his head violently, and at

the same time open his mouth, the stupefying ball drop from it.



we must now return to our friend, Yorkshire Joe, who, suspect no

evil, be engage in interesting colloquy with the perfidious Mary; this

seductive young lady having contrive, with a degree of ingenuity worthy

a well cause, to prolong the interview by the follow expedient.

first, she assail her admirer with coquettish reproach for his

unkindness and want of gallantry in refuse to speak to she; then she

enter into a long account of how and when and where she have discover

the pretended design against Tartuffe, which she affirm be to be put

into execution two hour from that time.



“eh! what! tie my hand behoind I, shove a gag into my mouth, and then

and there lame t’horse afore my very eye--dost thee say, lass? I’d only

like to see the man, or man either, that could do it!” exclaim Joe,

double his fist indignantly; “and thee hear this in the tap-room of

the Chequers, dost thee say?--What be that noise?”



“nothing. I drop one of my patten, that be all,” return the girl,

stoop as if to pick it up, though she be not sorry for an excuse

to hide her agitation, for her quick ear have detect the sound of a

horse’s hoof trample on straw, and she know that her accomplice be

at work. “why, you be quite startlish to-night, Joe!” she resume,

look up at he with a forced smile; “do you think it be a

ghost?--but it’s no wonder you’re nervous; it’s hard line for you, poor

fellow, sit up at night like this----”



“there it be agen!” interrupt Joe; “by ------ it’s in t’horsebox,” he

continue, listen attentively. “they ---------- thief cann’t be come

a’ready, sure!” and heedless of Mary’s assurance that it be nothing,

and her entreaty to remain only one moment long, the groom, now

thoroughly excited, leap down from the window and rush back into the

stable.



with the speed of thought the girl spring to the door at which she

have previously tap, and stoop her head to the key-hole, listen

eagerly. the first thing that meet her ear be a volley of abuse from

Joe, accompany by heavy blow strike against wood or iron; then a

noise as of a door be burst open; next, broken curse, dull, muffle

stroke, ejaculation of rage or pain, the sound of trample foot, a

crushing, heavy fall, and then total silence!



what have happen? she place her eye to the key-hole, but could see

nothing. she listen--but the throbbing of her own heart be the only

thing she could hear: for the first time the fearful idea occur

to she, that by her treacherous deal she might have occasion she

lover’s death; and regardless of consequence, she be about to start up

and summon assistance, when a man’s hand be lay on her shoulder, and a

gruff voice exclaimed--



“so this be the way my groom be tamper with! I be sure I hear

talk go on. hold up your head, you jade, and let we see what

you’re like; nay, it’s no use to struggle, I’ve get you fast enough, and

see who it be I will.”



so say, Mr. Slangsby the trainer draw the girl towards he, and

forcibly raise her head, throw the light of a bull’s-eye lantern full

on her feature. “ha! little Mary Williams,” he continue, “and what

bring you here at this time of night, you artful hussy?”



“oh! Mr. Slangsby, pray open the door, sir; I--I’m afraid they’ve be

and murder poor Joe,” be the reply, and overcome by fear and remorse,

the girl burst into tear--real one, this time.



“they, and who be they, pray? there’s some rascality go on here, I

expect; it’s lucky I get up.” as he speak, Slangsby draw a key from his

pocket, open the door, and still retain his grasp on the girl’s

wrist, enter. the first object which meet their sight be Joe, by no

mean murder, although he bear evidence of a severe struggle in a

black eye and bleeding knuckle.



“T’horse be all right, meister, but I wor only jest in time, though!”

 be his opening speech.



“in time for what?” inquire Slangsby eagerly.



“in time to stop yon villain from pizonin the bless hanimal,” return

Joe, point to something which at first sight appear to be a

large bundle, but which prove on examination to be a human being most

ingeniously tie hand and foot with hayband.



“who the deuce be you, fellow?” ask the trainer, address the

individual thus uncomfortably situate.



“it ain’t o’ no use talk to he, for a cann’t answer with a wisp o’

straw stuff atween his jaw,” observe Joe sententiously.



“take it out then, and untie his leg so that he can stand up and answer

my question.”



“well shut the dour fust then, meister, for he’s a proper slippery

customer, I can tell you,” return the groom. “he promise to gag I

and tie my hand behind I, I do hear say, but he’s find two can play

at that trick. get up, ye warmint,” he continue, apply a by no mean

gentle kick to the rib of his prostrate captive, “and show your ugly

mug.”



the person thus upcomplimentarily apostrophise rise slowly and stand

sullenly await the irainer’s scrutiny. the latter, hold the

lantern so that its light fall upon the stranger’s feature, recognise

he immediately.



“Mr. Beverley,” he say in a tone more of contemptuous pity than of

anger, “be it you, sir? I know time have be get very bad with you,

but I do not think you have come to this.”



the man’s lip quiver--the reproach touch he more than the most

virulent abuse could have do. his have be, we fear, no very unusual

fate; at all event he have only fall one step low than many who have

follow the same career as he have do. well-bear, rich, and with above

average ability, a taste for gambling and low company have cause

he to sink lower and low in the scale of society, till the depth of

misery and degradation to which he have be reduce, and the extent of

the bribe offer by Turnbull, have overcome his last feeling of honour

or honesty, and he have consent to become the agent of another’s

villainy. Slangsby eye he sternly for a moment, and then said--



“you know what you have lay yourself open to, I suppose?” the other

nod in sign of assent.



“I don’t wish to be hard upon you, sir,” the trainer continue, “so if

you will speak out and tell I _all_, we may perhaps come to some well

understanding: what say you?”



the other reflect a moment and then reply in a low voice, “I will do

as you wish, but not here.”



“Joe, you have distinguish yourself,” observe his master, put his

hand into his pocket, “here be a ten-pound note for you. do not mention

this night’s work to anybody, and I will take care your wage be

raise. now, sir,” he continue to Joe’s late adversary, “I be ready

to talk to you--by the way, about the girl; she be your accomplice, of

course?”



the stranger nod.



“your sweetheart have deceive you, Joe,” add Slangsby; “give she a

good lecturing, and then lock she up for the night in the saddle-room;

she must not be at liberty till the race be over, upon any account.”



Honest Joe scratch his head in deep perplexity--then a light dawn

upon he, and he perceive how Mary have beguile he seize she roughly

by the wrist, he drag she off, exclaim, “come along, thee cheat

jade, could’st thee foind nothing well to do than to go and deceive a

poor lad that love thee, and try to get he into trouble? if thee be

but a man, I’d wollup thee till thou could’st not stand, and as it be, a

little starving will do thee good, so cum along.”



at the same moment Slangsby and his companion quit the stable, and

adjourn to the trainer’s private apartment, hold there a long

and solemn conference; the result may be gather from the follow

speeches--



“and you feel sure Lord Bellefield be aware of the whole thing?”

 question Slangsby.



“I’ve not a doubt of it,” be the reply. “Turnbull be too ready with

the blunt to be act on his own account, he have not get the money to

do it. I be to have £500 clear for this job, and my expense pay to any

part of the continent I may select.”



“and we may trust you?”



“why, of course you may, man; by do as you propose I escape

transportation, receive £500 to start afresh with, and get send over to

Paris out of harm’s way free of expense.”



“and your conscience?” inquire Slangsby with a sarcastic smile. “curse

conscience,” be the angry reply; “I begin life with as much honourable

feeling as any man, but the villainy of the world have crush it out of

I. life be a struggle, and each one must take care of himself; while I

have money I spend it liberally, and meet my engagement honestly. now I

have none, I get it as I can. I undertake to drug your horse because I

be deeply in debt, all but starve, and Bellefield’s bribe offer I

a chance. I fail through an accident, and fall into your power; your

proposal regain I the position, and I embrace it now as I do before.

true, I deceive he: fancy your horse be poison he will double his

bet, which be very heavy already, and be ruin, as well man have

be before he, but this only serve he right for his rascality,

and--put £500 into my pocket. I have to thank you for your civility,

Mr. Slangsby, and to wish you good morning.” he turn to go, then

pausing, said--



“you have use I well in this affair, and to show you I be not all

bad, I will give you a hint. do not rely too much on the result of that

trial: Bellefield’s colt be only recover from the strangle then,

and have since improve in speed and bottom; still Tartuffe can beat

he _if he be make the most of_; everything therefore depend upon

your jockey; if he be careless or over-confident, Oracle may have it

yet--_verbum sit_.” so say, he place his hat on one side of his

head, coolly run his finger through his hair, and depart.









CHAPTER LIX.--DESCRIBES that indescribable SCENE, “the DERBY day.”



“Fair laugh the morn, and soft the zephyr play,” as Lord

Bellefield, having hold an interview with his trainer, which have serve

in great measure to set his mind at ease, canter back to the inn at

Epsom, shave the small portion of his chin which he see fit to

denude of hair, make an elaborate toilet in the good style of sporting

dandyism, and then lounge down to breakfast, of which meal he have

invite some dozen of his intimate to partake. amongst the last comer

be a tall, dark-whisker man, who might be two or three year

Lord Bellefield’s senior. point to a seat on his right hand, his

entertainer began--



“well, Philips, how be it with you this morning? you’ve be wander

about as usual, pick up the late news, I suppose? what say the

prophet?”



“there be nothing original hazard, my lord,” be the reply.



“oracle be as much in favour as ever; Phosphorus be look up slightly,

and the Tartuffe party be back their horse to a high figure; they

seem to be in earnest, and mean to win if they can.”



“ay, if they can,” return Lord Bellefield, smile ironically; “I

confess, for my own part, I do not see that animal’s good point.”



“he have wonderful power in the loin, and his deep girth give plenty

of room for the lung to play; no fear of ‘bellow to mend’ in that

quarter,” be the reply.



“very excellent point in a hunter or steeplechase horse, but misplace

in a racer, and by no mean calculate to make up for a want of

fleetness. Tartuffe, in my opinion, have not the true racehorse stride,

as Austerlitz will find to his cost, if he really be lay money on

he.”



“he may not cover so much ground in his stride as Oracle, but he be

unusually quick in his gallop, and take two stroke while another horse

be take one. still black and yellow (Lord Bellefield’s colour) will

give he the go-by, and that be all _we_ have to look to,” be the

reply.



in converse such as this, diversify by the interchange of bet of more

or less magnitude, the breakfast (if a meal consist of every delicacy

that could please the palate or pamper the appetite, include meat,

fish, etc., etc., can be legitimately so call) pass off. when

liqueur have be hand round, Lord Bellefield’s drag be announce,

and the company disperse, first to admire and criticise the turn-out,

and then to dispose of themselves on and about it. the equipage be in

perfect taste, and although not so showy as many other on which less

care have be bestow, or money expend, yet the drag, with its panel

of the darkest possible cinnamon brown, pick out with a light shade

of the same colour; the four blood bay, faultless in symmetry; the two

outrider on horse so exactly match those in harness, that any one

unaccustomed to such matter might have be puzzle to conjecture how

the groom could distinguish one from another; the harness perfectly

free from ornament of any kind, save black and yellow rosette in the

horse’ head; the two groom in dark, well-fit, pepper-and-salt

livery, and irreproachable top-boot and leather; the coronet on the

door, the cockade in the hat; every trifle down to the gold-mount

whip-handle, excellent of its kind, and in harmonious keeping with

the whole, present to the eye of a connoisseur a _tout ensemble_

calculate to excite his high admiration.



seat himself firmly on his box, and control his fiery horse with

an easy confidence which prove he a skilful whip, Lord Belle-field

drive to the Downs, apparently impassable obstacle seem to melt

before he as if by magic (one of the sure test of a good coachman),

and arrive on the course exactly at the “correct” moment. as he draw up

to take his place by the rope, a showy britska, draw by four splendid

grey, the postilion’ bright green jacket and velvet cap blaze

with gold, dash in before he. the carriage contain two person--a

singularly handsome young man with a foreign cast of feature, and a

girl with black, flash eye and a brilliant complexion, dress not

only in, but considerably beyond the height of the fashion. these

be the Duc d’Austerlitz and Mademoiselle Angélique, the fascinating_

danseuse_.



as Lord Bellefield, with curl lip, pass they to take up his station

far on, the Frenchman, catch his eye, nod carelessly, and

turn to his companion say a few word in a low tone, and they both

laugh. have Lord Bellefield been live at a period when the state of

society allow the hand to act out the feeling of the heart, he would

at that moment have spring upon the due d’Austerlitz, and seize he by

the throat, have hold on remorselessly till life become extinct. as it

be, he merely return the nod by a bow, smile, kiss the tip of his

glove to Angélique, and drive on; so that, after all, civilisation have

its advantage.



having choose his station, the bay be unharness and lead away, and a

mount groom approach, lead his master’s hack.



“I be go down to the ring, and then to the Warren, to see they

saddle,” begin Lord Bellefield, “so I must leave you to take care of

yourself; but any one dispose for luncheon will find something to

that effect go on here after the race. if I be not back, Robson

will take good care of you.” so say, he give an order to one of the

servant, who remain with the drag, then, mount his horse, canter

away.



“he carry it off boldly enough, but they say if he lose the race he

be a ruin man,” observe one of the _friend_ he have leave behind he.



“oh, Lord Ashford will clear he,” remark another; “his grandfather

be one of the lead counsel of the day, and the old boy feather

his nest well before he give up his wig and gown. he be one of the

old school of lawyer, and work in the day when a barrister’s

professional income be a great fact, whereas now it be a great

fiction.”



“come, Briefless, no grumbling; back Oracle for a cool £500, and then

you may cut chamber till the season’s over. but you be wrong about

Bellefield. Lord Ashford have pay his debt three time, and have take

an oath on the family Bible never to do so again; but I don’t believe

Bellefield’s anything like hard-up. you know he win £30,000 of poor

Mellerton before he blow his brain out. here’s Philips can tell we all

about it; eh, what do you say, man?”



“nothing,” be the cautious reply; “and I would not recommend you to

let Bellefield find out exactly all you’ve be mention, my dear

Chatterby; I’ve know he shoot a man for less.” so say, Mr. Philips

join in the laugh he have raise against the voluble Chatterby, and

then swinge himself down from the box, leave they in order to take his

place in the bet ring.



we must now change the venue to the Warren, a small but picturesque spot

of ground encircle by a wall, within which enclosure the horse for

the Derby and Oaks be saddle and mount. here jockey and gentleman,

lord, blackleg, trainer, and pickpocket, mix and jostle with

one another indiscriminately. Assuredly Epsom, on the Derby day, in

exclusive, aristocratic England, be the only true Utopia wherein those

chimera of french folly, Liberty, Fraternity, and Equality, exist

and prosper. let the reader imagine from twenty to five-and-twenty

blood-horse, each lead by its attendant groom and follow by an anxious

trainer, while the jockey who be to ride it, and on whose skill and

courage thousand of pound be depend, carefully inspect the

buckling of girth, regulate the length of stirrup-leather, and as far

as human foresight will permit, provide against any accident which

may embarrass he in the come struggle. then the horse-clothing

be remove, and the shine coat and carefully-plait mane of the

racehorse be reveal to the eye of the admire spectator; an

attendant satellite at the same moment assist the jockey to divest

himself of his greatcoat, and he emerge from his chrysalis state in

all the butterfly splendour of race dandyism. then the trainer, or the

satellite before allude to, “give he a leg up,” and with this slight

assistance he vault lightly into the saddle and become as it be

incorporate with the animal he bestride. quietly gather up the

rein, he press his cap firmly on his head, slant the point of

his whip towards the right flank, exchange a few last word with the

trainer, and then walk his horse up and down till his competitor be

all equally prepare. on this occasion the cynosure of every eye be the

first favourite, Oracle, and when his clothing be remove, and one

of the clever jockey of the day seat gracefully on his back, he

certainly do look, to quote the enthusiastic language of his trainer,

“a reg’lur pictur,” the perfection of a racehorse. turnbull’s last word

to the jockey were--



“save he as much as you safely can till the distance, and if the pace

have be anything like reasonable, it will be your own fault if the race

be not your own.”



a slight contraction of the eyelid prove that the advice be understand

and appreciate, and man and horse pass on.



“how be it Tartuffe do not show?” inquire Lord Bellefield of Turnbull

in a whisper. “the dose cann’t have be give too strong, eh?”



“no fear of that, my lud,” be the reply; “but they’ve probably

discover ere this that there be a screw loose somewhere, and they

will keep he out of sight as long as they can, lest other people should

become as wise as they be themselves.”



as he speak the object of his remark appear; his rider be already

mount, and the horse-clothing remove. Tartuffe be a complete

contrast to his rival in appearance. the Dodona Colt be a bright bay,

with black mane, tail, and leg; his head be small, almost to a fault,

and shape like that of a deer, his neck long and more arched than be

usually the case in thorough-breed horse; while his graceful, slender

limb seem to embody the very ideal of swiftness. Tartuffe be

altogether a small and more compact animal, his colour a rich, dark

chestnut, his head large in proportion, and so place on as to give he

the appearance of be slightly ewe-neck, his foreleg be short,

and the arm more muscular than those of his graceful rival; but the

sloping shoulder, the depth of the girth, the breadth and unusual

muscular development of the loin and haunch, together with a

quick, springy step and a general compactness of form, afford to the

practise eye evidence of his possess very uncommon power both of

speed and endurance.



“he look fresh and lively enough,” remark Lord Bellefield, after

observe the horse narrowly. “what do you think about it?”



“it’s all right, my lud,” be Turnbull’s confident answer; “thing

speak for themselves, the ’orse ain’t allow to show till the last

minute, and then he come out with his jockey ready mount. now the

logic of that dodge lie in a nutshell: find the hanimal sleepy and

out of sort, they keep he snug till they’re force to purduce he,

and then show he with the jockey on he, when a touch with the spur

and a pull or two at his mouth with a sharp bit make he look alive

again.” approach his lip almost to his employer’s ear, he continue,

“do you see that patch of black grease on his nose? that’s where the

twitch have cut he. Beverley be oblige to twitch he to give he the

ball--so now your ludship may bet away without any fear of Tartuffe,”

 and exchange a significant glance, this well-match pair part.



“ah! Bellefield, _mon cher!_ how lovely your colt look this morning--I

suppose he be to win; for myself I be prepare to be martyrise with a

resignation the most touching,” and as he speak Armand Duc d’Austerlitz

stroke his silky moustache and admire his glossy boot with an air of

the most innocently graceful self-satisfaction possible.



“you don’t really believe that which you say, Monsieur le Duc,” reply

Lord Bellefield; “I never see a horse in well racing condition than

Tartuffe.”



“ah! _c’est un bon petit cheval_, and I have bet, ah!--bah!--I cannot

tell you what sum of money upon he, more than half my estate in

Languedoc; positively I shall have to go through what you call the Bench

of your Queen, if I lose.”



“in that case it be useless for I to inquire whether you be dispose

to back Tartuffe against my bay colt,” insinuate Lord Bellefield.



“no, not if you have a fancy that way, _mon cher ami_,” reply Armand,

smile to show his white tooth; “what shall we say?--an even bet of

£3000 shall it be, or £5000?”



“five be the more comfortable sum of the two,” return Lord Bellefield

quickly. “I always like to bet five or ten; it simplify one’s book

amazingly, and I never have a taste for intricate arithmetic.”



“_comme il vous plaira_--say ten, if you like it well.” and as he

speak Armand draw out a miniature bet-book and a gold pencil-case

blaze with jewel. Lord Bellefield pause for a moment; certain as he

believe himself to be of the race, it be a great temptation. but, on

the other hand, if he appear too eager, might not suspicion attach to

he in the event of any clue be gain to the poisoning affair? the

idea be so alarming to he that prudence overcame avarice.



“I have unfortunately no estate in Languedoc,” he say laughingly; “and

thousand be not so entirely a matter of indifference to I as to your

grace; so we will book the bet at five.”



the wager be accordingly so enter; and with friendly smile and

courteous word upon their lip these two man part, one hate the

successful rival, the other despise the detect swindler! alas! for

the sham and deception of society! pasteboard and tinsel be more real

than its hollow-hearted seeming.



“now you see your game,” be Slangsby’s last word to the jockey who

be to ride Tartuffe. “make run early in the race, so as to render

the pace as severe as possible throughout: your horse will live to the

end, and theirs willn’t; but if he be not well blow before he get to the

distance, it will be a very close thing, and the length of his stride

may beat you.”



“I’m awake,” be the concise reply; but Slangsby be quite satisfied

therewith.



racing may be very cruel, and it may lead to gambling and various other

immorality, major and minor; and be thus prove contrary to the

precept of Christianity, good people may be quite right in use their

good effort to discourage it. nevertheless, it be a manly and exciting

sport; and although the evil to which we have allude may (and,

we fear, do) attend it, we cannot see that the amusement in itself

necessitate they. on the contrary, we conceive that they be add to

it by the proneness to evil inherent in human nature, rather than as the

natural consequence of the sport itself. however this may be, a finer

sight than the start for the Derby we cannot easily imagine. let the

reader picture to himself some twenty three-year-old colt, their proud,

expand nostril snuff the wind, and their glossy coat glisten

in the sunshine, ride by the crack jockey of England, and therefore

of the world, draw up in a line, preparatory to start; let he

reflect, in order fully to realise the earnest nature of the scene,

that on the fact of which may prove the well horse depend many

thousand--perhaps, in the aggregate, more than a million of pound

sterling; that the ruin of hundred may be involve in the event of the

race; that on the chance of that whirlwind course have be expend

the anxious thought, the careful calculation of day and week and

month; that the weighing and reduce these calculation to a theoretic

system, by which some certainty may be attain, be the business of

many man’s lives,--and he will then have some faint idea of the deep,

overpower interest that be excite by witness the start for the

Derby.



on the occasion which we be describe two false start occur. twice

as the word “go!” be pronounce by the stentorian lung of the starter

do one queer-temper animal choose pertinaciously to turn its tail

where its head should have be; and twice do the same “voice of power”

 vociferate the command “come back!” and deep, if not loud, be the

anathema breathe by those jockey who, having manoeuvre themselves

into a good position, have contrive to “get away” well. however,

“ ’tis an ill wind which blow good to nobody;” and these delay,

annoying as they be to most of the party concern, be as much

in favour of the supporter of Oracle as they be prejudicial to the

interest of those who have back Tartuffe.



Oracle, amongst other gift of fortune, chance to be bless with

a most amiable and placid temper, while Tartuffe, not possess so

philosophical a turn of mind, be apt to get excited in a crowd, and the

first false start completely unsettle he, he avail himself of the

second to bolt half-way to Tattenham Corner before his rider could pull

he in; and even when that feat be accomplish he show a decided

preference for use his hind-leg only in progression on his return

to the starting-post; by his riotous and unmanageable conduct take a

great deal more out of himself than be by any mean prudent.



once more, however, they be all in their place--the word be again

give, and they be off--Tartuffe spring away with a bound like that

of a lion, and half dislocate his rider’s arm by a furious effort

to “get his head.” as it happen that there be two or three other

“queer” temper horse besides that of the Duc d’Austerlitz which

require careful handling, the pace at first be by no mean so “good”

 as Slangsby have wish it to be; nor could the jockey ride Tartuffe

venture to improve it, for two reason: in the first place, his horse

be so excited that it require all his skill to prevent his running

away with he; in the second, his former attempt to bolt have suffice to

puff he, and he require “saving” to enable he to regain wind. in the

meantime Oracle be go sweetly and easily, keep up with his horse

in what appear scarcely beyond a canter. when past the “Corner,”

 however, Tartuffe have decidedly improve, and his rider, remember

his instruction, begin to make play. as the pace increase, the “first

flight” become considerably more select, the “tender-hearte” one

gradually drop in the rear.



up to this point Phosphorus have be lead, follow by Advance,

Whisker, the Lynx, Gossip, and Challenger; but down the next slope

Tartuffe come up, pass the other horse, and after run neck to

neck with Phosphorus for about a quarter of a mile, take the lead, and

keep it by about half a length, Oracle lie well up on the near

side. this order they preserve till near the distance, when Lynx and

Challenger put on the steam to dispute the leadership with Tartuffe, who

appear by no mean dispose to relinquish the post of honour, and

the pace grow decidedly severe, in spite of which Oracle continue

insensibly to creep up to the other.



at the distance Lynx find it “no go,” and fall back beat; Gossip

take his place, closely wait on by Phosphorus and Oracle; a few

stride more, in which Oracle improve his position, and then the final

struggle begin, whip and spur go to work in earnest--the pace be

actually terrific--Gossip shut up, Phosphorus be extinguish, Oracle

and Tartuffe run neck and neck, dust fly, handkerchief wave, the

spectator shout, when, just at the critical moment, the Frenchman’s

horse shoot forward, as if propel by some invisible power, the

favourite be beat by rather more than a head, and Tartuffe remain

winner of the Derby.









chapter LX.--CONTAINS some “novel” remarks upon the ROMANTIC CEREMONY of

MATRIMONY.



“frere, old fellow, have you prepare your wedding garment?” inquire

Bracy, meet his friend accidentally one fine day, about a week after

the occurrence of the event describe in the last chapter.



“ay, I hear that your machination have succeed,” return Frere

gruffly, “and that De Grandeville be about to marry Lady Lombard. I’ll

tell you what it be, Bracy; it strike I that in assist people to

make fool of themselves and each other, you be just waste your time

and pervert your talent: depend upon it you may very safely leave

folk to perform that operation on their own account, they be not

likely to class that amongst their sin of omission.”



“make fool of themselves!” repeat Bracy. “my dear Frere, it’s nothing

of the sort, that be an ‘_opus operatum_,’ a deed do for our

friend by beneficent nature, long before I have the pleasure of their

acquaintance. moreover, in the present case, I be seek to diminish,

rather than to increase, the standing amount of folly--man and wife

be one, you know; _ergo_, by unite Lady Lombard and the mighty De

Grandeville, the rank of the feeble-minded be one fool _minus_.”



“well, that certainly be an ingenious way of put it,” rejoin

frere, laugh in spite of himself; “and pray how have you contrive to

bring about this delectable affair; for I conclude the match _be_ your

handiwork?”



“oh! the thing be easy enough to accomplish,” reply Bracy. “I

invent pretty speech, which I declare to each that the other

have make about they; I exaggerate De Grandeville’s position to Lady

Lombard, and Lady Lombard’s wealth to De Grandeville; in short, I lie

perseveringly and judiciously until I fancy I have get the affair

thoroughly _en train_. but I soon find out there be a hitch somewhere;

it be clearly not on the lady’s side, for she be so far go as to

believe in De Grandeville to the extent of estimate he at his own

valuation, which I take to be the _ne plus ultra_ of credulity; so I set

steadily to work to investigate _he_, and if possible find out what

be the matter. I try various scheme, but none of they would act, his

reserve be impenetrable; at last, in despair, I give he a champagne

dinner at the Polysnobion, take care to ply he well with wine, and to

walk home with he afterwards. that do the business--he must have be

most transcendently drunk and no mistake, for before we reach his

lodging, having confess to I that his grandfather have be a tallow

chandler, he go on to relate that the bar to his union with Lady

Lombard be his inability to discover that she possess any pedigree.”



“well, for that matter,” interrupt frere, “having admit the tallow

chandler, I don’t see that he need have be so very particular as to

the aristocratic tendency of Lady Lombard’s ancestry.”



“De Grandeville do not think so,” resume Bracy; “he argue that no

amount of chandlery could infuse vulgarity into the blood of one of his

illustrious house; external circumstance, he declare, be powerless

to affect the innate nobility of a De Grandeville: whole year of

melt day would fail to drop a spot upon that illustrious name.

but for a man, the founder of whose family come over with the Norman

William, to marry a woman without a pedigree, one who probably never have

so much as a grandfather belong to she, be impossible: he have a

warm regard for Lady Lombard; he consider that his name and influence,

support by her wealth, would place he in one of the proud

position to which a mortal could aspire; but even for this he could not

sacrifice his lead principle, he could not ally himself to any one

without a pedigree.



“see that he be in earnest, I forbear to laugh at he; and merely

throw out hint that I have reason to believe he be in error, and

that although Lady Lombard’s father (an amiable soap-boiler, whose

virtue simmer for sixty year in the neighbourhood of Shoreditch)

have be engage in commerce (he paraphrase the tallow chandler into a

russian merchant), as well as his grandfather, still the argument which

apply to the one case would hold good in the other, and at all event

I beg he to take no rash or precipitate step in the matter till I

have apply to a friend of mine (of course invent for the occasion)

who be a genealogist, and use my good endeavour to clear up the

difficulty--for which disintereste offer he, be still more or less

inebriate, bless I reiteratedly and fervently, and so, having see

he safely home, we part. the next morning I visit Lady Lombard,

lead she on sweetly and easily to talk of her family, gain some

information, and learn where to obtain more, and in less than two

day have the satisfaction of prove her fiftieth cousin sixteen time

remove to Edward the Third. De Grandeville be introduce to my friend

in the Heralds’ Office----.”



“whom you declare a minute ago to be invent for the occasion,”

 interrupt frere.



“for which reason he be the more easily personate by Tom Edgehill

of the Fusileers,” resume the unblushing Bracy. “De Grandeville be

allow, as a great favour, to peruse the pedigree, believe in it----”



“or pretend to do so,” suggest Frere.



“to the full extent!” continue Bracy, not heed the interruption,

“and the next thing I hear be that the party be engage.”



“so he be actually go to marry a woman without an idea, properly so

call, in her head, and half as old again as he be, for the sake of

her money. well! that’s an abyss of degradation I’ll never sink to

while there be a crossing to be sweep in London,” be Frere’s disgusted

comment.



“_Chacun à son gout_--for my own part I should prefer involuntary

emigration at the expense and for the good of my country, vulgarly

denominate transportation, to be marry at all, even be the

oppose party (my hypothetical wife, I mean) the most thorough-breed

angel that ever wear a bustle,” return Bracy. “by the way,” he

continue, “I see your little friend, Miss Arundel, the other day; she

and her mother be stay with the ‘Lombardie Character,’ I find, but

of course you know all this well than I do. really that girl write

exceedingly good sense for a woman. now if I be a marry man, I

don’t know any quarter in which I’d soon throw the handkerchief.”



“you might pick it up again for your pain, for she wouldn’t have you,

I’m sure,” growl Frere.



“do you really believe so?” ask Bracy, with an incredulous smile.

“Ahem! now I flatter myself the little Arundel have well taste.”



“well sense than to do any such thing, you mean,” return frere more

crossly than before. “depend upon it, whenever Rose Arundel marrie, she

will choose a man who can respect and love she, and not a--well, I don’t

mean to insult you, my good fellow, but truth will out--a self-conceite

young puppy, whose head have be turn by foolish people, by whom his

cleverness have be overrate and his vanity foster.”



Bracy draw himself up, and for a minute pretend to look very

fierce--then burst into a hearty laugh, he pat his companion on

the back affectionately, exclaim, “poor old Frere! do I put he in

a rage? never mind, old boy, I only want to know whether there be any

truth in the report that you be engage to Miss Arundel--and now let

I congratulate you. you have no doubt good cause for think the young

lady would have show her wisdom by select a sensible man such as you

be, rather than a _vaurien_ like myself, even if I be a marrying man

and have place such a temptation before she.”



Frere look at he for a moment in utter astonishment, then mutter,

“a vaurien, indeed! I always prophesy that foot-boy of yours would

die with a rope round his neck, but I begin to think the complaint which

will necessitate such an operation run in the family, and that servant

and master be alike affect by it.”



“and what may be the name of this alarming epidemic which you consider

likely to terminate so fatally?” ask Bracy.



“a most unmitigated and virulent form of chronic impudence,” return

Frere, laugh; then shake hand most cordially, these two oddly

assorted friend part.



after having leave Bracy, Frere bend his step towards the dwelling of

Lady Lombard, with whom Mrs. Arundel and Rose be spend a few

day for the avow purpose of assist to prepare her wedding

paraphernalia, though (as the most skilful dressmaker and the most

expensive tradesman in London be at work in the good cause) their

duty be merely nominal. Mrs. Arundel having explain to her hostess

the nature of the engagement between Frere and her daughter, that

excellent bear be allow to run tame about the house. Lady Lombard,

who be at first impress by a vague sense of his awful amount of

learning, and decidedly alarmed at his snapping and growling, have become

reconcile to his presence on perceive that Rose could tame he by a

word or a smile, and commit he to her care and management, trouble

herself no far about he.



“Rose, who do you think have go to Venice?” inquire Frere, after

having disburden his pocket of a little library of heavy book, two

cold, uncomfortable fossil, and the very hard handle of a roman sword,

all highly prize and newly acquire treasure, which he have bring

that Rose might appreciate they and sympathise with he in his delight

at having obtain they.



“to Venice,” return Rose--“oh! who? do tell I.”



“why, lot of people, it seem,” reply Frere. “I call upon my uncle,

Lord Ashford, this morning, and find he in what be vulgarly term a

regular stew. Bellefield it seem have a horse which everybody fancy

be to win the Derby, but what everybody fancy do not come to pass,

for the say horse be beat, consequently his owner have lose no end of

money, for which same I for one do not pity he: I have no sympathy with

your ruined gamester--and ruin he be, by the way, horse, foot, and

artillery, as the military De Grandeville would say. well, poor

uncle Ashford show I a note he have just receive from his dutiful

first-bear, tell he that he have not a farthing of ready money in the

world, except £50 to pay for his journey; that he be quite unable to

meet his engagement, and that before the settle day for the Derby he

must put the British Channel between he and those to whom he owe sum

so large that he neither desire nor expect his father to pay they;

that he would feel oblige if his lordship would increase his yearly

allowance, and that he wish letter of credit to be forward to he

at Venice, to which place he propose immediately to follow General

Grant and his daughter, who it appear leave England only three week

ago; that it be his intention to marry the young lady forthwith, and

live abroad upon her fortune, until something to his advantage should

turn up; and he add in a postscript, that if his father should attempt

to prevent his marriage by inform General Grant of what he be please

to call his misfortune, that minute he will blow his brain out. well,

poor uncle, who be a high-minded, honourable man, though he be rather

proud and cold in his manner, could not bear the idea of his son

marry Annie Grant without inform the General of his loss of

fortune, and at length he resolve to meet the difficulty by sell

the H----shire estate, and by that mean increase Lord Bellefield’s

allowance till it would amount to £3000 a year, in which case General

Grant might be inform of the truth without the match be break off,

or Bellefield drive to desperation. Whereupon I observe innocently

enough that the success of the scheme would in great measure depend on

the tact of the person send out to manage the negotiation: Lord Ashford

agree in this most cordially, and then say how grateful he should

feel to any one who would assist he in this strait, look hard at

me----”



“and you instantly undertake the commission; I know it as well as if I

have be present and have hear all that pass,” interpose Rose with a

smile, in which, though affection predominate, a slight shade of regret

might have be trace.



“why, you see, Rose, as I be one of the family, there seem a kind of

obligation upon I to do something to help they; and poor uncle Ashford

do look so pitiful; and really if I have not undertake it, I don’t know

who could have be find to do so, for Bellefield quarrel with

their family solicitor because he refuse to allow he to make duck and

drake of some of the entail property three year ago; and I shall not

be go long. besides, I do not quite forget you, Rosey, for, do you

comprehend, I shall be able to see Lewis without his fancying that I

have be send out expressly to look after he, and perhaps I may be

able to persuade he to come home and live in England like a reasonable

being and a Christian; at all event, I shall find out how he be go

on there; and I’ve another thing to talk to Lewis about--I don’t mean to

remain for ever without a wife, Miss Rose--you need not turn your head

away--that’s sheer silliness--you know we _be_ to be marry some day,

we expect matrimony will increase our happiness, and we have sounder

ground for our expectation than most of the fool who yoke themselves

together for life; those who do so, for instance, in order to obtain

rank or rich--our next-door neighbour to wit,” and he point with

his thumb in the direction of the drawing-room, wherein be seat the

mighty De Grandeville and his lady-love. “as, therefore, my reasoning be

good, sound reasoning, and matrimony prove to be a desirable thing, why

the soon we get the ceremony over the well; so, as I say before,

don’t turn away your head like a little goose, see that you’re

nothing of the kind!”



“Poor Lewis,” murmur Rose; “he will scarcely rejoice to see you when

he learn that the object of your mission be to hasten the marriage of

Annie Grant with Lord Bellefield. oh, Richard,” she continue eagerly,

clasp her hand, “it will make he hate you--do not go!”



“well, now, I never think of that,” mutter Frere, thoroughly

perplexed. “why will people go and fall in love with one another that

don’t ought to?” he pause, rub his hair back from his forehead till

it stand on end like the crest of a cockatoo, play with Rose’s

workbox till he overturn it, and in his abstraction commit so many

gaucherie that his companion be on the point of call he to order

when he suddenly return to his sense, and take Rose’s hand in his,

begin, “now listen to I, my child: in the first place, as this matter

nearly concern Lewis, and therefore you, I will do nothing in it of

which you do not approve; premise this, I will give you my own idea

on the subject. Touching Lewis’s interest in the affair, the question

seem to hinge upon this point: do Annie Grant care for he or not?

if she do not, it cann’t signify to he who she marry; and as in that

case she be probably attach to her cousin (woman don’t _always_ love

wisely, you know), I should feel able to carry out uncle Ashford’s

wish with a clear conscience, and trust to Lewis’s good sense and kind

heart not to incur his displeasure by so do. if, on the other hand,

Annie by any chance love he, and have be bully or persuade into

this engagement, I for one will have nothing to do with promote the

match, but, on the contrary, will exert myself to the utmost to prevent

it; and now what say you?”



“that by do as you propose you will act rightly, kindly, and

judiciously, and that come what may of it, your interference must be

for good,” return Rose, gaze with look of proud affection upon the

simple-hearte, high-principle “_honest_ man” (indeed “the noble

work of God”) who sit beside she. “but,” she continue after a moment’s

thought, “there be one difficulty which I scarcely see how you will get

over--how be you to find out whom Annie Grant really love?”



“ask she myself,” be the straightforward reply. Rose look at he to

see if he be joke, but his face be earnest and resolve.



“oh, Richard, you will never be able to do that,” she remonstrate;

“remember how such a question must distress she.”



“which do you think will distress she most--to be ask abruptly to give

her confidence to a person who be anxious to befriend she, or to spend

her life with one man, when all the time she love another?” inquire

Frere almost sternly. then lay his hand on Rose’s head and stroke

her glossy hair, he continue, “no! no! Rosey, away with all such

sophistry; they be the devil’s emissary to render people first

miserable, and then reckless and wicked. marriage, properly so term,

may be make in Heaven, but depend upon it, the spurious article too

often foist upon the public under that name--alliance in which

this world’s good be everything, and the treasure of the next world

nothing--come from quite another manufactory.”



then there be a pause, and then Rose inquire when he propose to set

out.



“why, there be no good in procrastinating,” be the reply; “the soon I

start the soon I shall be back again, so to-morrow the lawyer get the

necessary paper ready; the next day good Lady Goosecap here be to be

marry, and I mean to attend the ceremony in order to learn how

to behave on such an occasion; and the day after that, if nothing

unforeseen occur to prevent I, I’m off!”



“you will write very often--every----” (Frere raise his eyebrow) “well

then, every other day, will you not?” urge Rose appealingly.



“what queer thing woman be!” soliloquise Frere. “now, if you have be

go to the North Pole,” he continue, address Rose, “it would never

have occur to I to _ask_ you to write--I should have take it

for grant that if you have discover the northwest passage, or do

anything else worth mention, you would have let one know; and why

people write if they have nothing to say I cann’t think.”



“at all event, it be a satisfaction when we be part from those who

be dear to we to be assure that they be well,” suggest Rose.



“oh, nothing ever ail I,” reply frere, quietly appropriate the

remark; “there be not a doctor in the country who have ever receive one

farthing of my money; and as to physic--throw physic to the dog, always

suppose you to have any such abomination to dispose of, and any dog

at hand to throw it to: it’s a thing I don’t know the taste of, and

where ignorance be bliss--well, never mind, I’ll write to you all the

same, if you have a weakness that way, whenever I can find pen, paper,

and a post-office; only if my letter should happen to be rather prosy,

somewhat in the much-ado-about-nothing style, small blame to I, that’s

all.” thus the expedition be agree upon, and Rose having tell Frere

some hundred thing which he be to say to and inquire of Lewis, sit

down to write a _few_ more “note and query,” wind up with a

pathetic appeal to her brother to bring his self-impose exile to a

conclusion.



so the silver-foot hour turn round the treadmill of time, till the

dewy morn appear which be to witness the celebration of the nuptial

of Lady Lombard and the mighty Marmaduke De Grande-ville. oh, the ardour

and bustle of that devoted household! as for the servant, so late do

they sit up and so early do they rise, that go to bed at all become

rather a superstitious observance than a beneficial practice. then

everybody have to dress, first themselves and then somebody else; and the

amount of white muslin concentrate in that happy family render space

crisp, and give a look of pastoral simplicity to the most iniquitously

gorgeous arrangement of modern upholstery.



the bride’s dress be wonderful--word be powerless to describe

it--happy those woman who, favour beyond all other daughter of Eve,

be permit to behold it. one very young lady, rash in her ignorance,

venture to ask how much the lace cost a yard. the french artiste,

Mademoiselle Melanie Amandine Celestine Seraphine Belledentelles,

piously invoke six authorised female saint, besides the deceased

Madame Tournour, at whose flounce she have sit to acquire her art,

and whom, on her lamented removal to Père la Chaise, she have privately

canonise for her own especial use and behoof, and thus support do

_not_ faint. the “mistress of the robe,” a black-eye, brown-cheek

grisette, turn as pale as her complexion permit she and sink upon a

chair, but be unprovide with a smell-bottle, think it advisable

not to proceed to extremity, and the mother of the culprit hurry

forward, and with great presence of mind lead she from the room--such

mystery be not for the profane.



then occur a tremendous episode--the dress be dispose in graceful

fold over the ample person of its fortunate possessor, and fit

seraphically; only the bottom hook and eye, situate in the region round

about the waist, would by no mean permit themselves to be unite, and

a lucid interval, _hiatus valde lachrymabili_, be the fearful

consequence. the grisette do she very utmost, but her strength be

inadequate to command the success her zeal deserve, and with flushed

cheek and tearful eye she glance appealingly to Mademoiselle Melanie

Amandine, etc., etc.



that ardent foreigner step forward to the rescue, all the noble

self-confidence of her nation flash in her coal-black eye, and

gallantly assume the post of danger--she be a small woman, but she

frame be compact and wiry, and Tydeus-like--



               “her little body hold a mighty mind.”



set to work with spirit, she devote all her energy to the task

before she, aged Lady Lombard wince palpably, unconsciously echo

Hamlet’s well-know aspiration--but that good lady’s melting mood be

unfortunately mental, not bodily, and in this attempt “to take she in”

 even the french dressmaker be foil; the “too solid” substance be

not compressible beyond a certain point, and with a sigh which have a

marvellous resemblance to the word _sacr-r-r-e_, Mademoiselle Melanie

Amandine, etc., etc., desist.



“_ah! qu’ils sont difficile ce agraffes!_” she exclaim, rub she

little hand with a theatrical gesture. “I have not to myself force in

_les poignet_, vot you call oncle.”



[illustration: 0462]



“wrist,” mildly suggest Mrs. Arundel, who be assist to attire the

bride--“mine be very strong, let I try”--and suit the action to the

word, she, Curtius-like, endeavour to close the yawning gulf, but in

vain.



“_ah non! c’est impossible_--you shall only hurt your hand too motch,

_chère Madame Hirondelle_,” resume Mademoiselle--“permit I to ring

zie bell, we shall make approach _le maître d’hôtel_, vot you call zie

coachman of zie chambaire, who shall have much of force, _et ce sera un

fait accompli_.”



“Stop, Madurmoysel,” exclaim Lady Lombard aghast, as the energetic

Frenchwoman lay her hand upon the bell-rope--“Stop, if you please, I

should not like--that is, it be not exactly the custom to admit the male

domestic into one’s bedroom.”



for a moment the Frenchwoman appear utterly puzzle as to the reason

of the objection, then a light break in upon she, and she begin, “_ah,

je comprend!_ it ee not etiquette; _que je suis bête!_ how I be

stupide! _mais qu’ils sont drôle ce petit scandale Anglais! Vraiment

c’est comme la comédie. a Paris nous ne remarquon pas ce petit rien;

et en Allemagne_, zie schneider, vat you call tailor, _il font toute

le robe--mais comment faire donc?_”



“why really, Madurmoysel, _je nur par_--I mean, I don’t think I could

bear it, if it be get to,” remonstrate Lady Lombard; “don’t you think

the hook and eye might be move a little? it’s unfortunate I be so

stout--_mais je nur_--can’t help it.”



“_oh, mille pardon, miladi_. your lady sheep shall not be too stout;

_après la première jeunesse l’embonpoint_ be a great beauty; but zie

hook and ee, _à est dommage; cependant, nous verron_, ve shall see vot

vill be do.” and so say, Mademoiselle Melanie etc.’s nimble finger

go to work, and a quarter of an inch be graciously accord; by which

mean the impossible become possible, and the crisis be safely get

over.



as to breakfast (not _the_ wedding-breakfast, but the breakfast before

the wedding, two very different matter), that be a regular, or rather

an irregular scramble: people eat and drank stand, like horse, but

in a general way feeling be strong than appetite, and with the

exception of one middle-aged lady, bless with a powerful intellect and

a weak digestion, who have medical authority never to allow herself to

feel hungry, breakfast three time that morning with three different

division of the party, little justice be do to the viand.



Rose make herself generally useful, help all the neglect one, and

bring comfort to the uncomfortable, until she scarcely leave herself

time to dress, and yet appear the most charming little bridesmaid of

the lot, although her five companion do not disgrace their uniform

of white muslin with pink embellishment (the white symbolise their

maiden innocence, and the pink suggest the cheerfulness with which

they would be willing to exchange it for the honourable estate of

matrimony).



then the carriage come to take up, and Mrs. Arundel and the fair

Susannah, relict of Col. Brahmin, H.E.I.C.S., have the great

difficulty in sustain the weak nerve and fluttered spirit of the

bride elect, who, as she herself express it, “bear down by two such

agitate set of recollection,” might well be overcome. however, by

the assistance of a rich male Lombard relation (whose wealth gild his

vulgarity till Mammon worshipper believe this calf a deity) she

be safely convey to the church, where De Grandeville await she,

accompany by a splendid old ancestor, who might by a very slight

stretch of imagination have be take for _the_ identical De

Grandeville who have come over with the Conqueror, and be carefully

preserve (in port wine) ever since. Bracy be there, look

preternaturally solemn, all but his eye, in which, for the time be,

the whole mischief of his nature appear concentrate, and Frere with

he, serve his apprenticeship, as Bracy phrase it.



in solemn procession they approach the altar, where the priest await

they, and open his book, read to they an account of the true nature

of the ceremony they be about to celebrate--how it be “institute by

God in the time of man’s innocency,” and be symbolical of high and holy

thing, and be ordain to assist we in fulfil the various duty

for which we be place in this world, and on the due performance of

which will greatly depend our weal or woe for everlasting, it should

not be undertake lightly or unadvisedly; then De Grandeville, having

learn the theory of the matter, proceed to afford a practical

commentary on the text by solemnly promise to love and honour Lady

Lombard till death they should part, while she, in return, pledge

herself (with less chance of perjury) to serve, obey, and _keep_ he

during the term of her natural life; then he, Marmaduke, take she,

Sarah, from the hand of the wealthy Lombard relation, and declare

that he do so “for rich, for poor,” though we much fear, if he

have foresee the small probability of the realisation of this latter

proviso, the ceremony would have be then and there interrupt,

instead of proceed as it do, sweetly and edifyingly, till it wind

up with “any amazement.” and everybody be much pleased and thoroughly

satisfied, there be, of course, a great deal of cry, though why

they cry, unless it be to see so solemn an institution thus wantonly

profane, and to hear people use word of prayer and praise, and worship

God with their lip, while in their heart they be sacrifice all the

bitter feeling of their nature before the altar of Mammon, we cannot

tell.



amongst the rest Mrs. Arundel weep most meritoriously, until catch

sight of Bracy sob aloud into a very large pocket-handkerchief, she

weeping become somewhat hysterical, and end in a sound suspiciously

like laughter. then people crowd into the vestry, which be about the

size of a good four-post bedstead, and name be sign, and fee pay,

and small joke make, and then the whole party take coach and return

to the house, where _the_ wedding-breakfast await they. the humour

of a wedding-breakfast have be describe so often and so well, that we

shall merely give a very faint outline of the lead idiosyncrasy of

the affair in question.



in the first place, people be very hungry, Nature having assert she

right and promote Appetite, _vice_ feeling sell (or rather starve)

out. even the lady with the weak digestion (which make up by increase

velocity for want of stamina) add a very substantial fourth to she

three previous breakfast. then, as mouth grow disengage, tongue

find room to wag, health be drunk, and the speechifying begin. first

uprose the De Grandeville ancestor, who be a tall, thin, not to

say shadowy old gentleman, with a hooked nose and a weak voice, who

whisper to the company that “he rise to”--here his face twitch

violently and he pause, in evident distress,--“he rise to”--here a

tremendous sneeze account for the previous spasm, and the patient,

evidently relieve, proceed, “he rise to”--once again he pause,

struggle furiously with the tail of his coat--“he beg to call

the attention of the company to--he had”--still the struggle with

the coat-tail continued--“he have a toast to propose;” here, amidst

breathless attention, he whisper to his nephew in an aside,

audible throughout the whole room, “Marmaduke, I’ve leave it in

my great-coat--the left-hand pocket, you know;” “the toast be

this”--“Thank you, Jenkins,” to the butler, who bring the missing

handkerchief on a silver waiter, sticky with the overflowing of

champagne--“_this_ be his toast--he hope that the company would do it

justice--health and happiness to the bride and bridegroom.”



and the company do it justice; so much so, that if the health and

happiness of the newly-married pair depend on the amount of champagne

their friend appear willing to drink at their expense, sickness and

sorrow be evil against which they might consider themselves amply

secure. silence be restore, the bridegoom rise to return thank,

his inborn greatness manifest itself in every look and gesture, and

dignified condescension add a new grace to his sonorous voice and

grandiloquent delivery. having glance round the table with the air of

a monarch (in a fairy extravaganza) about to address his parliament, he

clear his noble throat and began--



“in rise to--ar--return thank for the honour you have do we, in so

cordially assent to the toast propose by a man whose presence might

confer a favour upon the most aristocratic assembly in the

land--a man whom--ar--even at this moment, which I have no

hesitation--ar--in--ar”--(hear, hear, and question from Bracy)--“I

repeat, no hesitation in--in--no hesitation in--ar--declare to be at

once the proud and happy moment of my life--a man who, even in

this season of felicity, I yet distinctly--ar--yes, distinctly say,

I envy; for he have the honour to represent the eld branch of

that ancient and illustrious house of which I be a comparatively

insignificant” (a groan of indignant denial from Bracy, which procure

he a gracious smile from the speaker), “yes, I--ar--repeat it, a

comparatively insignificant, but I hope not an entirely unworthy

descendant.” here Bracy, after a slight struggle with Frere, who seek

to prevent he, rise, and speak apparently under feeling of the

great excitement, say, “he be sorry to interrupt the flow of

eloquence which be so much delight the company, but he be certain

every one would agree with he in say that Mr. de Grandeville’s last

observation, however creditable it might be to he, as evince his

unparalleled and super-christian (if he might be allow the term)

humility, could not be allow to pass unchallenged. he put it to they

collectively, as intellectual being; he put it to they individually, as

gallant man and lovely woman (immense sensation)--if his noble friend,

the illustrious man to whose burn eloquence they have just

be listen, be allow to set himself forth to the world as

‘comparatively insignificant’ and ‘not entirely unworthy,’--he ask

they _if_ such term as these be allow to be apply to such a

character as that, _where_ be society to seek its true ‘monarch of

mind’? where should it look for those heaven-gift soul-hero--those

giant of thought, those ‘nobler’ and ‘that _Noblest_,’ to quote the

glow word of one of the lead writer of the age, by whom its

evil be to be remedie, its abuse reform, and its whole nature

purify and regenerated?--he put it to they to declare whether Mr. de

Grandeville must not be entreat to recall his word?”



deafening applause follow Bracy’s harangue, and the amendment be

carry _nem. con_. thus fool to the top of his bent, De Grandeville

resume his speech, and after make a very absurd display of egotistic

nonsense, family pride, and personal pretension, give the health of the

company generally, and of his ancient ancestor and the vulgar Lombard

relation in particular. then more health be drunk and more speech

make, and a great amount of stupidity elicit, intersperse with

some drollery, when Bracy be call upon to return thank for the

bridesmaid, which he do in an affected falsetto, smile, blushing,

coquetting, and screw up imaginary ringlet, much after the fashion

of the inimitable John Parry, when it please he to enact one of the

young lady of England in the nineteenth century. then the female

portion of the company retire to relieve their feeling by a little

amateur crying and kissing, champagne and susceptibility be

mysteriously unite in the tender bosom of the soft sex; then the

miraculous robe be take off and the bride re-attired for travel;

then the gentleman come upstairs, all more or less “peculiar” from

drink wine at that unaccustomed hour in the morning, and some little

business be transact; one spirited bridesmaid, who have have a shy

young man nibble for some time, actually harpoon her fish, and

land he skilfully beyond all chance of flounder out of an

engagement, by refer he on the spot to mamma. Mrs. Arundel, who

by this time have learn to entertain a most lady-like and unchristian

hatred against the fair Susannah, maliciously lay herself out to

captivate the limp and unstable affection of Mr. Dackerell Dace,

and succeed so well, that she actually begin to deliberate whether

opulence and triumph over her rival might not render Dace endurable as

a permanency. then the travel carriage with Newman’s four grey draw

up to the door, and the stereotyped adieus be speak, the stereotype

smile smile, and tear shed, and all the necessary nonsense rehearse

with most painstaking diligence, the only original feature in the whole

affair be frere’s remark to Bracy as the happy pair drive off--



“you be about right, old fellow, when you compare marry to

hang. I tell you what it be--soon than undergo all this parade of

folly, absurdity, and bad taste, I’ll be splice at the pier-head at

Dover, and set sail for Calais as soon as the ring be on the bride’s

finger; well be sea-sick than sick at heart with such rubbish as we’ve

be witness to.”









CHAPTER LXI.--“WE MET, ’twas in a crowd!”



Lord Bellefield safely accomplish his journey to Venice, reach

that city of palace without let or hindrance. despite his imperturbable

assurance, a close observer might have discover from external sign

that his lordship be ill at ease, and in no particular be it more

apparent than in the marked change in his manner towards General Grant

and his daughter. the cold nonchalance with which he formerly tolerate

the General’s stateliness, and the easy, almost impertinent confidence

with which he have be accustom to prosecute his suit to Annie, have

give place to an affectation of studiously courteous deference when

he address the father, and to respectful yet tender devotion in his

intercourse with the daughter, which prove that to secure the good

opinion of the former, and, if possible, the affection of the latter,

have now become a matter of importance to he. with General Grant he

be in great measure successful, that gallant officer believe, in his

simplicity, that his intended son-in-law have at length finish sow

his wild oat; a species of seed which, be universally acknowledge

to contain, besides every small vice extant, the germ of the seven

deadly sin, have this remarkable peculiarity, that be once sown,

it be popularly suppose to bring forth a plentiful crop of all the

domestic virtue. delude by this fallacy, the General fondly trust

that the come event of matrimony have cast its shadow before, and

extinguish all the wild-fire which have hitherto fling its baleful

glare over his Lordship’s comet-like course; or, to drop metaphor and

condescend to that much well thing, plain English, the gallant officer

teach himself to believe that Lord Bellefield have at length see the

error of his way and intend to marry and live virtuously ever after.

with the lady, however, his lordship do not succeed so easily; and

skilful tactician as he not unjustly consider himself, never have he

feel more completely bewildered or more thoroughly perplexed how to act.

Annie’s whole nature appear to he so completely alter that he could

hardly recognise she as the same person. instead of the simple, amiable,

child-like character which he have despise but fancy would do very

well for a wife, he now find a proud, capricious beauty, whose mood

seem to vary between cold indifference and a teasing, sarcastic

humour, which he could neither fathom nor control. if he try to

interest or amuse she, she listen with a careless, _distrait_ manner,

which prove his effort to be completely unavaile; if he attempt

the tender or sentimental, she laugh at he, turn all he say into

ridicule by two or three word of quiet but bitter irony. she appear

tacitly to acquiesce in their engagement, but any attempt to fix a time

for its fulfilment serve only to estrange she still more. do the

reader think this change unnatural? may he never witness the alteration

which a grief such as Annie’s make, even in the gentle nature--may

he never experience the bitterness of that nascent despair, which can

sour the sweetest temper and force cold look and cut word from

eye accustom to beam with tenderness, and lip from which accent of

affection alone be willnot to flow!



one morning, rather more than a week after Lord Bellefield’s arrival, an

expedition be propose to visit one of the architectural lion of the

picturesque old city, and as the General seem inclined to accede to

the scheme, and Annie urge no objection, it be agree that they should

go.



“I make one proviso,” observe Charles Leicester, “and that be, that you

come home in good time. I don’t wrant to frighten you, in fact there be

nothing to be frighten about, only I know that there have be for

some time past a spirit of disaffection abroad among the workman at

the Arsenal, and if they should attempt to make a demonstration by

congregating in the square and few open space in this amphibious city,

it might be disagreeable for you.”



“but be such an event at all probable?” inquire Laura.



“why, yes,” be the reply; “I have a note this morning from

Arundel”--catching a reproachful look from his wife, Charley stop in

momentary embarrassment, then continued--“a--that be, from a friend of

mine, tell I such a thing be possible--however, I’ll go with you

myself, and keep you in proper order.”



as Charley in his forgetfulness blunder out the name of Arundel, Laura

do not dare to look at Annie; when, however, she venture a moment

afterwards to steal a glance towards she, her feature wear the

cold, listless look which have now, alas! become habitual to they, and

exhibit no sign of emotion by which her friend could decide whether

she have remark the name, or whether it have pass without strike she

ear. almost immediately afterwards she rise, and say she suppose she

have well get ready, quit the room. Lord Belle-field have not be

present at this little scene. with falter step Annie seek her own

apartment, close and lock the door; then, instead of prepare to

dress, fling herself into an easy-chair, and press her hand upon she

throb temple, try to collect her thought. she have hear the name

only too clearly, and combine it with Walter’s tale of the ghost, have

guess the truth. _he_ be then in Venice, and not only that, but he

have evidently establish some communication with the Leicesters, and

must therefore be aware of the presence of her father and herself; nay,

by what she have gather from Charles’s speech, he must be actually

engage in watch over their safety; and as the idea strike she, a

soft, bright light come into her eye, and a faint blush restore the

rose to her cheek, so that any one who have see she five minute

before would scarcely have recognise she for the same person. “but with

what purpose could he be there? why, if the Leicesters know it, have they

so studiously conceal it from her?--from _she!_” and as she repeat

the word the recollection of Walter’s speech, “he go away because he

love you, and you do not love he,” flash across she. “what if it

be true? what if he have really love she, and have leave they because

his feeling be become too strong for his control?” and then

a thousand remembered circumstance (trifle in themselves, but

confirmatory of that which she now almost believe to be the truth)

occur to she. but if this be indeed the case--if, instead of

resign his situation because, as her fear have urge, he have guess

at the nature of her sentiment towards he, he have love she, and his

honourable feeling have drive he into a self-impose exile--what must

he not have suffer! and oh! know as much as he do of her feeling

towards Lord Bellefield, what must he not have think of she, when he

learn that in less than four-and-twenty hour after his departure she

have renew her engagement to a man he be aware she both dislike and

mistrust! above all, what a false view must it have give he of she

feeling towards himself! oh, how she hope, how she pray this blow

might have be spare he! then the present, what do it mean? the

future, how would it turn out? on one point she be determine: only

let she ascertain beyond a doubt that Lewis love she, and she would

die rather than marry Lord Bellefield. the evil that befall we in this

world be not without even their temporal benefit. two year of hopeless

sorrow have give a specie of desperate courage to a mind naturally

prone to a want of self-dependence. _anything_ be preferable to the

anguish she have go through; and Annie Grant’s decision now be very

different to the “lady’s yea” or nay she would have utter ere the

storm of passion have sweep over her maiden spirit.



the effect produce on Annie by the new light which have break in upon

she do not immediately pass away, and although her remark be chiefly

address to her cousin Charles, Lord Bellefield be equally surprised

and puzzle by the change in her manner. in order to reach the building

they be about to visit, they be force to disembark from their

gondola, and after proceed along a species of cloister, to cross one

of the foot-bridge which so constantly in Venice intersect the canal.

under the shade of an arch of this cloister stand the tall figure of a

man; as the party approach he draw back far into the shadow, and,

himself unseen, observe they attentively as they pass. the excitement

of the morning have leave its trace in the flushed cheek and sparkle

eye of Annie Grant. at the moment she quit the boat, Charley

Leicester have make her laugh by some quaint remark on the personal

appearance of a fat little individual who be one of the gondolier, but

whose figure by no mean coincide with the romantic association his

avocation recall. as, lean on Lord Bellefield’s arm, she pass the

arch behind which the stranger be conceal, her companion address to

she some observation which necessitate a reply. turn to he with

the smile Leicester’s observation have provoke still upon her lip, the

light fall strongly on her feature, reveal they fully to the eager

gaze of (for we intend no mystification as to his identity) Lewis

Arundel. he look after they with strain eyeball, till a corner of

the building hide they from his view. then dark line spread across his

forehead, the proud nostril arch, the stern mouth set, the flashing

eye grow cold and stony, and a spirit of evil seem to take possession

of he.



“so,” he mutter, “it have come to this; with my own eye have I beheld

her perfidy. it be well that it should be so, the cure will be the more

complete, and yet”--he press his hand to his throb brow--“yet

how beautiful she be! she be change; her face have acquire expression,

soul, power, all it want to render it perfect, and--to madden I.”



he pause, then appear to have collect strength, continue more

calmly, “yes, I have see it; she cling to his arm, she smile on he,

she love and will marry he. it be over; for I there must be no past;

I must sweep it from my memory. happiness I can never know; as far as

the affection be concern, the game of life be play. well, be it

so, my art still be leave I, and the dark, the unknown future.”



again he pause. Ere the arrival of the party, the sight of which have so

deeply affect he, he have be sketch an antique gable opposite. he

resume his work, and by a few hasty but graphic stroke transfer

to his sketch-book the object which have attract he to the spot.

replace his drawing material, he continue, “ ’tis strange how the

sight of that man affect I: I fancy I have teach myself the evil

and folly of nourishing sentiment of hatred against he, and yet the

moment I behold he, all the old feeling rush back upon I with

redouble vigour. I must avoid his presence, or my wise resolution will

go for nothing.” he sigh deeply. “this, then, be all the fruit of two

year of mental discipline, to find, at the end of the time, that I love

she as deeply and hate he as bitterly as I do at the beginning. oh, it

be humiliating thus to be the slave of passion!”



commune with himself after this fashion, Lewis quit the spot and

proceed in the direction of his own lodging. on reach the square

of St. Mark he find it partially occupy by an excited crowd, compose

of the very low order of the people, its number be constantly

swell by fresh party pour in from various part of the city. it

instantly occur to Lewis that in order to reach the Palazzo Grassini,

Leicester and his companion would be force to cross the square, and

consequently oblige to make their way through the crowd; and a feeling

which he do not attempt to analyse, but which be, in truth, anxiety

for Annie’s safety, determine he to remain there till he have see they

return. accordingly, turn up his coat collar, and slouch his hat

over his eye in order to conceal his feature, he mingle with the

crowd. in the meantime the Grant party, ignorant of the difficulty

that await they, be quietly examine statue and criticise

picture.



“Laura, you look tired, and Annie seem as if she be become somewhat

‘use-up,’” observe Leicester, glance from his wife towards his

cousin. “no wonder either, for we’ve be on our foot for more than two

hour, and as for my share in the matter, I tell you plainly, if you

keep I here much long, you’ll have to carry I home on your back,

Mrs. Leicester, for walk I willn’t.”



thus urge the lady confess their fatigue, and their willingness to

return; but there be still another gallery of painting unseen, which

the General evidently wish to visit. he have commission an artist to

copy two or three of they, and he require Lord Bellefield’s opinion

as to the propriety of his choice. this occasion a difficulty, which

Laura meet by propose the follow scheme--viz., that she, Annie,

and Charley should leave the General and Lord Bellefield to their own

device, and take a gondola, row to a point at which they would be

within two minute’ walk of St. Mark’s. Lord Bellefield make some slight

remonstrance, and it be clear he disapprove of the scheme, but the

General be peremptory, so he have no resource but to submit with the

good grace he be able.



“famous thing gondola be, to be sure,” observe Charley, as, place

a cushion beneath his head, he stretch himself at full length under

the awning; “they afford almost the only instance that have come under

my notice in which the intensely romantic and the very decidedly

comfortable go hand in hand--they cut out cab, and beat ’bus

into fit. now, we only want a little melody to make the thing

perfect--Laura, sing we a song!”



“sing you asleep, you mean, you incorrigible----”



“there, that will do; don’t become vituperative, you termagant,”

 interrupt her husband. “Annie, dear, gentle cousin Annie, warble forth

something romantic with your angel-voice, do, and I’ll say you’re----”



“what?” inquire Annie.



“a regular stunner!” be the reply.



“and if the epithet be at all appropriate, it clearly prove I

unqualified for the office,” return Annie, smile, “so you really

must hold I excuse.”



“then the long and short of the matter be that the duty devolve upon

I,” rejoin Charley, and slowly raise himself into a half sit,

half kneeling attitude, he place himself at his wife’s foot, after the

fashion of those very interesting cavalier who do the romantic on the

cover of sentimental song; then having play an inaudible prelude

upon a supposititious guitar, he place one hand upon his heart, and

extend the other in a theatrical attitude towards the boatman,

begun--



                        “Gondolier, row--o!”



when, having extemporarily parody the first verse of that popular

melody, he be begin the second with--



                   “ain’t this here go--



                   glorious--oh--o-”



when the prow of the gondola strike against the step where they be to

land with so sharp a jerk as to pitch the singer on his hand and knee,

and effectually check his vocalising. after discharge the boatman,

they proceed a short distance along the bank of the canal, and then

turn down a narrow lane, or alley, lead to the square of St. Mark.

in this Leicester be annoy to perceive knot of disreputable-look

man talk rapidly, or hurry along with eager gesture towards

the square. finding, as they advance, that the crowd become thick,

Leicester pause, irresolute whether or not to proceed.



“surely we have well turn back,” urge Laura. “I should not be afraid

if we be alone, for I know you could take care of I, but----,” and

she glance towards Annie, who, although she say nothing, have turn

very pale, and clung with convulsive energy to her cousin’s arm. Charles

look back, and to his utter dismay perceive that the crowd behind have

be increase by a fresh accession of number, and that their retreat

be effectually cut off.



“there be nothing remain for we but to keep on,” he say; “the stream

of people appear, fortunately, to be go our way, and all we can do

be to go with it: I dare say they be too much engross by their own

affair to trouble their head about we. whatever occur, don’t let go

my arm, either of you; it be rather disagreeable, certainly, but there

be nothing to be really afraid of, and we shall reach home in five

minute.”



hope these assertion, in regard to the truth of which he be himself

somewhat sceptical, might suffice to reassure his companion, Leicester

continue his course, occasionally annoy by the pressure of the crowd,

but not otherwise molest till they reach the square of Saint Mark.

here the sight that await they be by no means encouraging: the whole

space be fill with a dense crowd of the low rabble of Venice, who,

many of they the bad for liquor, appear in a state of considerable

excitement, and fill the air with mingled shout, cry, and curse.

to pass safely through such an assembly, with his attention divide

between his two charge, appear next to impossible, and thoroughly

perplexed, Charles Leicester pause, unable to decide whether it be

well to advance or attempt to retrace their step. as he thus

ponder a rush of people force they forward, and they find themselves

completely hem in by the crowd, while from the pressure of those

around they Laura and Annie experience the great difficulty in

retain their grasp of Charley’s arm. still no personal incivility

be offer they, and Leicester begin to hope they might gradually make

their way across the square without actual danger, when a cry from Annie

convince he of his error. the cause of her alarm be as follows:--



one of that industrious fraternity (some member of which be to be meet

with in every large city) whose principle in regard to the right of

property be reprehensibly lax, attract by the sparkling of a valuable

brooch in Annie’s shawl, conceive the opportunity too good to be lose;

accordingly, press close to she, he make a snatch at the ornament,

seize it so rudely as to tear open the shawl and partially drag it

from her shoulder. as, alarm by her cry, Charles turn to discover

its cause, a tall figure spring forward and wrest his spoil from

the robber, fling he off at the same time with such force that he

stagger and fall; then address Leicester, the stranger say in a

deep, stern voice, each accent of which thrill through Annie’s very

soul--



“make for the church step--think only of protect Mrs. Leicester. I

will be answerable for this lady’s safety.”



then Annie be conscious that her shawl be replace and carefully

wrap round she, and she feel herself half-lead, half-carry forward

by one before whose resistless strength all obstacle seem, as it

be, to melt away. how they pass through that yelling, madden crowd

she never know, but ere she have well recover from her first alarm

at the ruffian’s attack, she find herself place on the step of St.

Mark’s Church, her back lean against a column, and the tall, dark

figure of her preserver stand statue-like beside she, in such a

position as to screen she from the pressure of the crowd. involuntarily

she glance up at his feature; hide by the coat collar and slouch

hat, the only portion of his face that remain visible be the tip of a

black moustache, the proud, arch nostril, and the cold, stony gaze of

two fierce black eye, fix upon she as though they would pierce she

very soul. it be a look to haunt she to her die day, and bad than

all, _she understand it!_ in a moment the idea flash upon she. he

_have_ love she! he know she be about to marry his bitter enemy, and

now he _hate_ she. Poor Annie, if mental agony could kill, that instant

she have die. Lewis, thou art bitterly avenge!









chapter LXII.--“POINTS a MORAL,” and so it be to be HOPED “ADORNS A

TALE.”



“what be the next move?” inquire Leicester, come up with his arm

round his wife’s waist, and his hat crush into the shape of a biffin.



“wait here for a few minute,” return Lewis, “the crowd be already

disperse in the direction of the Arsenal.”



“the Arsenal, what do they want there?” inquire Leicester.



“to waylay Marinovitch as he leave the place, and murder he,” return

Lewis in a stern whisper, “but he have be warn of their design, and

will of course take measure to ensure his safety.”



“pleasant all this!” mutter Leicester, take off his injure hat and

endeavour in some degree to restore its original shape; “here’s a

case of wanton destruction--glad it be not my head all the same. now the

coast seem pretty clear, suppose we move on.”



coldly and silently Lewis resume his office of guardian: the space

intervene between St. Mark’s Church and the Palazzo Grassini be

pass in safety, and they stand within the courtyard of Leicester’s

dwelling. Charley lay his hand on Lewis’s shoulder.



“you will come in?” he say; “you be hot and tired, and require

refreshment--a glass of wine?”



Lewis shake his head.



“it be impossible,” he reply coldly; then add, “I be happy to

have be of use to--to Mrs. Leicester and yourself,” he raise his hat

slightly to Annie and turn to depart: recollect however that

he still hold in his hand the brooch which he have rescue from the

ruffian’s clutch, he pause with the intention of give it to Laura;

but Laura have catch sight of “Tarley’s” curly head peep out at she,

and actuate by a sudden impulse of maternal affection, or for some

other reason which we shall not attempt to fathom, she have trip off

in the direction of her self-willed offspring. Leicester be slowly

follow she, all his faculty apparently engross by a second

attempt to reform his outraged hat. Lewis and Annie be leave therefore

virtually alone. advance towards she with an expression of countenance

so cold and immovable that every feature might have be carve in

marble, Lewis began--



“I beg pardon, I have forget to return your brooch.”



it be the first time that morning he have personally address she, and

his do so appear to break the spell which have keep she silent; she

take the brooch from he, murmur some indistinct word of thank,

then gain courage as she proceed, she glance at he appealingly,

saying--



“strange as this meeting be, I be sure I cannot be mistake--Mr.

Arundel, have you quite forget I?”



as she utter these word a kind of spasm pass across Lewis’s

face, and for a moment he appear afraid to trust himself to speak;

recover, however, he reply in the same cold, measure tone which he

have use throughout the adventure--



“no, Miss Grant, _i_ (and he lay an emphasis on the pronoun, so light

that a casual observer would not have detect it, and yet which shoot

a pang through Annie’s heart that cause her colour to come and go, and

her limb to tremble) do not forget so quickly.”



unable to meet his glance, which she feel be fix upon she, and

scarcely conscious, in her agitation, of what she be say, Annie

falter out--



“you will give my father an opportunity of thank you, I hope;

he will, I cannot doubt--that is, we shall all be glad to renew our

intimacy with so old a friend.”



Lewis pause ere he could trust himself to reply. her evident emotion,

the earnestness of her manner, half timid, half implore, tend to

soothe his wound spirit and disarm his wrath; but the vision of the

morning, in which he have see she cling to Lord Bellefield’s arm and

smile upon he, be too fresh in his recollection, and the demon of

pride and jealousy still retain full dominion over he.



“you must pardon I,” he say, “I will reserve my visit to General Grant

till I can congratulate he on his daughter’s marriage.” then raise

his hat ceremoniously, he bow to she, and be go!



no trace of the tumultuous assembly, which have so greatly alarmed Laura

and Annie, remain when Lord Bellefield and General Grant cross the

square of St. Mark on their return from the morning’s sight-seeing.

as they draw near the Palazzo Grassini, a tall lad in squalid raiment,

lean upon crutch, and with a patch over one eye, approach and

beg of they. the General at first refuse to listen to he, but

becoming weary by his pertinacity, feel in his pocket for something to

give he.



“I have no small change about I,” he remark, after a minute’s

ineffectual search, “but you have, Bellefield; they give you a handful

of their stupid little coin at the last shop we go into. lend I two

or three, will you?”



as he mention his companion’s name the beggar fix his pierce

eye on the feature of the person address, scan they eagerly,

as though he seek to fix they indelibly in his memory. return his

glance with a haughty stare, his lordship carelessly fling he a couple

of _zwanziger_ and pass on. the beggar watch his retreating figure

till it be no long visible, then turn quickly, hobble with his

crutch out of the square, continue the same method of progression

till he reach the near canal, when, look round to assure himself

that he be not observe, he coolly pitch his supporter into the

water, remove the patch from his eye, which by no mean seem to

require such a protection, walk briskly till he reach a spot where

a small skiff be moor, spring into which he commence rowing

vigorously, and be soon hide from sight by a bend of the canal.



when Lewis return to his lodging the following note await him:--



“my search be end; I have find my sister in time to see she--die!

her seducer, heartless in his villainy, bring his victim to a foreign

land, keep she in luxury till his fancy weary of she, and then leave

she--to starve. my curse have little power, or it would have wither he

long ago; but may the curse of that God who make he and her cleave to

he until-- _I_meet he. Sir, I know not how to thank you. she have tell

I how you warn she, how you explain to she his real character.

she be infatuate, but it be not for I to judge she. we seem a doom

race, fatal alike to ourselves, to those we love, and _to those we

hate_. oh, that she could live! she be soft and gentle, and--ay! though

a scoundrel have debase she, still I say it--she be good and pure, and

she would have calm my angry spirit; she would have teach I to love

something human. but it be not to be: each hour that I sit by she I

expect to be she last. she send you her blessing; may God’s go with it.



“Miles H---------.”



Lewis could not peruse this letter without deep emotion. in the just,

though, alas! ill-govern indignation which give a rude eloquence even

to the expression of this poor youth’s outraged feeling, he trace a

likeness to his former self. “heartless in his villainy, he keep she in

luxury till his fancy weary of she, and then leave she--to starve.”



this be the man Annie Grant love and be about to marry! oh, how his

heart bleed for she! he picture to himself her future life--how she

would gradually, by slow and painful step, discover her husband’s true

character, each advance in knowledge a new and separate misfortune,

until love should become indifference, and indifference end in hatred.

even yet he might prevent it. his London agent have forward to he that

morning an english newspaper contain an unmistakable allusion to

the event of the Derby day, and openly declare Lord Bellefield a

defaulter. this show to General Grant, and his tale of Hardy’s daughter

verify by the evidence now in his possession, the old soldier would

soon see his daughter lie dead at his foot than sanction her union

with a man devoid alike of honour and of principle. but then come in

pride. have he know that Annie love he, or have General Grant never

mistrust he, Lewis would have come forward without a moment’s

hesitation; but his motive have be once doubt, his affection

betray, and his pride could neither forget nor forgive it. besides,

Lord Bellefield would attribute his interference to a feeling of petty

malice; such be not the revenge for which, despite his principle and

his reason, his soul still thirst. so pride gain the day, though,

tyrant-like, in the very midst of his triumph he make his victim

miserable.



unable to apply his mind to anything, he stroll out, trust the

evening air would allay the fever of his blood. after wander about

restlessly for some time he remember that he have eat nothing for

many hour, and turn into the near casino he call for wine and

biscuit. having finish his frugal repast, he be about to leave

the house when three person enter, and cross through the

refreshment-room, pass into a salon which he know to be devote

to play. one of the three, a short, insignificant-look man, be a

stranger to he, but the two other he recognise instantly--they be

Walter and Lord Bellefield. a sudden impulse prompt he to follow

they; at that time in the evening the salon be certain to be pretty

well fill, and Lewis trust to avoid observation by mix with

the crowd, rely on the alteration in his appearance to escape

recognition, even if he be perceive either by Walter or Lord

Bellefield. accordingly, wait his opportunity, he join a group of

Italians, who, eagerly talk over the attempt upon the life of Colonel

Marinovitch (which have be frustrate by his escaping on board the

corvette which guard the harbour), scarcely perceive this addition to

their party. enter with they, and still keep in the background, he

take up a position whence he could observe the proceeding of those

for both of whom he feel an interest equally deep, though so utterly

distinct in character.



Lord Bellefield, who appear unusually listless and indifferent,

lounge up to the table and stake a few napoleon on the chance of

the game; then, draw forward a chair he seat himself, and continue

carelessly to watch the proceeding of the other player. but despite

the presence of the man he hate, Lewis’s attention soon become wholly

absorb in observe Walter. from his entire conduct it be evident

that this be by no mean his first visit to the salon; on the contrary,

it be only too plain that a taste for gambling have be implant in

the poor boy’s feeble yet obstinate mind. that he clearly understand

the nature of the game Lewis could not believe, but that he have acquire

sufficient insight into the rule to enable he to adhere to they,

and that he be keenly alive to the result of the deal, or the throw,

elated when he win and depress when he lose, be most certain.



the third person of the party, whom Lewis rightly conjecture to be his

successor in the office of tutor, do not play himself, but appear

to take great interest in Walter’s game, look over his card and

advise he what to do. Lewis also notice that whenever Walter win he

always receive gold, but that his loss be pay in paper money, and

the truth immediately occur to he--viz., that, child-like, the poor

boy only attach value to the glitter coin, and that the worth of

the bank-note have be completely misrepresent to he, so that he

believe himself win when in fact he be lose considerable sum.

moreover, from certain glance which pass between Mr. Spooner and the

proprietor of the salon, who hold the bank, Lewis become convince

that some secret understanding exist by which the tutor share in the

profit.



that Lord Bellefield be entirely ignorant of all that be pass

before his eye Lewis could not conceive, while at the same time the

trifle nature of the stake render it most unlikely that he could

have any personal interest in the affair; the probability therefore be

that he see what be go on but feel totally indifferent as to the

matter. this view be confirm when, as Walter grow more excited, begin

play high, and at last stake ten napoleon upon one cast, Mr.

Spooner approach Lord Bellefield and whisper something in his ear,

to which his friend reply carelessly, “oh, let he have his fling

while he’s in the humour;” then in a low tone he add, “_not blind!_

but the money be, I dare say, of more use in your pocket than in his, so

you’ll be the great fool of the two if you attempt to prevent he.”



Spooner appear again to urge some difficulty, to which Lord Bellefield

rejoin with a sneer laugh, “yes, it suit _you_ charmingly to

assume the _rôle_ of the innocent! cann’t you get he to sign another

bond payable when he come of age? Tortoni will no more refuse to cash

it than he do on a former occasion;” then smile again, he add, “I

tell you I be not blind, _mon ami_, but ’tis no concern of mine; I be

not the lout’s guardian, Heaven be thank.” although from the position

in which he stand Lewis only catch a word or two here and there of

this conversation, yet his quick apprehension supply the blank with

sufficient correctness, and the whole villainy of the thing burst

upon he. here be a man engage to educate and watch over the poor,

feeble-minded being before he abuse the power thus entrust to he

to lead he to evil, and avail himself of the imbecility he be bind

to protect to swindle his helpless charge; while Lord Bellefield, whose

duty it be to denounce such practice to General Grant the instant he

suspect they, have evidently not only no intention of do so, but sat

coolly look on, smile with a fiend-like satisfaction at each fresh

development of human wickedness.



as Lewis watch Walter’s flush cheek, eager eye, and hand which

tremble as they be stretch out to receive the gold which this time

he have be allow to win; as he mark the line which excitement and

the permit indulgence of a capricious, obstinate temper have trace

upon his smooth brow and round the corner of his mouth, all his old

affection for the poor boy rush back upon he, and his just anger

grow to such a pitch that he could scarcely repress it. at this moment a

fresh deal have begin.



“I will win more,” exclaim Walter eagerly; “Mr. Spooner, tell he I

want to double my stake.”



“but that have be do already,” be the reply; “the dealer have double

every one’s stake this time.”



“then I will double that,” return Walter, carry away by the

excitement of the game; “tell he so, I say.”



Spooner appear for a moment undecided; the stake, thus quadruple,

amount to forty napoleon, and alarm at its magnitude, he glance in

irresolution towards Lord Bellefield. a look of undisguised contempt for

his pusillanimity be the only reply his lordship vouchsafe; goad on

by which, Spooner turn to comply with his pupil’s direction.



but Lewis could bear it no long; regardless of consequence, he stride

across the room and lay his hand upon Walter’s shoulder, say as he

do so, in a gentle though determine voice, “Walter, you must not play

for such high stake.”



with a cry of mingled joy and surprise Walter spring from his seat,

gaze earnestly at Lewis’s feature, then exclaim, “oh, you have come

back at last!” throw himself upon his friend’s breast with a burst

of tear. much affect, Lewis return his embrace, and lead he

carefully to a seat, wait till he should recover from his surprise

and emotion. in the meantime the game have come to a standstill, the

bystander, consist chiefly of foreigner, be as much charm by

such a scene as an Englishman would have be annoy at it. the moment

quiet be in some degree restore, the proprietor, mindful of his own

interest, resume his deal, inquire with a glance at Spooner what sum

his young friend have stake. Spooner pause, but Lord Bellefield,

who have rise and with lower brow approach the scene of action,

prompt he, and he reply, “Forty Napoleons.”



Lewis’s eye flash. “it be at your peril you do this,” he say; “my

first act on quit this place shall be to inform General Grant of the

manner in which you betray the trust he have repose in you.”



Spooner turn pale; but rely on Lord Bellefield’s support, manage

to stammer out, “and pray, sir, who the deuce may you be?”



“I will tell you, and this worshipful company also,” exclaim Lord

Bellefield, step forward. “this fellow be, or rather be, a menial

in General Grant’s household, discard for insolent behaviour, and

as such unfit for the society of gentleman, into which as he have now

venture to intrude himself, I, for one, vote he be ignominiously

expel.”



this speech cause, as might be expect, a sensation throughout the

room, and the bystander congregate round Lewis and Lord Bellefield,

glance from one to the other, to discover from their bearing and

appearance which be the true man, and which the false. up to this

moment Lewis have be wrap in a large spanish cloak; he now allow

it to glide from his shoulder, as, advance a step, he boldly

confront his adversary.



“your lordship have be pleased to speak explicitly,” he say; “be

I incline to follow your example, I might, with some shadow of truth,

denounce you as a ruin blackleg and an outlaw defaulter; but I

prefer simply declare that in the statement you have just make you

have maliciously and unequivocally--_lied!_”



as he speak he raise his head proudly, and fold his arm across

his breast, wait the effect of his word. he be not keep long in

suspense. however numerous might be Lord Bellefield’s fault, a want of

personal courage be not one of they. as Lewis refer to the cause of

his ignominious exile his face grow pale with rage, but when he give he

the lie his fury become uncontrollable. spring forward with a leap

like that of a maddened tiger, he strike Lewis a violent blow on the

cheek, which, firmly as his foot be plant, stagger he, exclaim

as he do so--



“take that, beggar!” instead of rush on his adversary, as those

amongst the spectator who know he (and there be several who do so)

expect, Lewis, recover himself, stand for an instant regard Lord

Bellefield with a smile of triumph, though to those who remark

he closely there be an expression in his eye which, in spite of

themselves, cause they to shudder, while, strange to say, he be

draw a soil _white kid glove_ on his right hand; having do so, he

advance a step, say in a stern, deep voice--



“your Lordship be too generous--the beggar return your

almsgiving--thus!”



as he speak there be a sudden movement in the crowd--a frightful blow

be strike, and Lord Bellefield lie insensible on the ground, the blood

flow from a cut on his forehead, whilst over he stand Lewis, his

mouth set, and his eye burn with the fire of hatred. several of the

bystander spring forward to assist the fallen man, but Lewis sternly

motion they back.



“wait,” he said,--his voice sound deep and hollow, and there be

something in the expression of his face which quell the stout heart

amongst those who stand around him,--drawing the glove from the hand

which have strike the blow, he dip it in the blood that still trickle

from the forehead of the fall man, mutter to himself as he do

so, “_that_, then, have come to pass--be _the rest_ to follow?” he next

examine the countenance of his prostrate foe--“He be merely stun,”

 he say; “raise he, and bring water to bathe his temple.” as he speak

he assist those who step forward to lift the injured man and

place he on a chair; having do so, he leave he to the care of the

bystander, and again fold his arm, stand coolly await the issue.



the event justify his prediction: on the first application of the

cold water Lord Bellefield revive, and in less time than could have

be expect, the bleeding, which be very slight, be arrest. as

soon as he have recover sufficiently to speak, he say, address a

young Italian of rank, with whom he be acquaint, and who have be

bathe his temple with the cold water--



“Rastelli, you may inform that scoundrel that he have succeed; rather

than allow he to escape with impunity, I will undergo the degradation

of meet he.” he speak in a low, faint voice, but the expression with

which he glance towards Lewis as he pronounce the word “scoundrel” be

one of undye hatred.



“if your Lordship intend to apply that observation to the Signore

Luigi, I shall have the felicity to explain that your Excellency labour

under a mistake; that gentleman be the son of a gallant officer, with

whom I have have the honour to serve in more than one campaign. it be no

condescension in any one under the rank of a Royal Prince to meet the

son of the brave Captain Arundel.”



the speaker be an old General Officer in the austrian service, who

possess a european reputation, and whose dictum on all point of

honour be conclusive. Lord Bellefield bite his under-lip in anger and

vexation, curse his own hastiness which have elicit this vindication

of his enemy: perceive, however, that he should only place himself

still more completely in the wrong by any attempt to impugn the old

Austrian’s statement, he merely bow haughtily in reply, then desire

to be show into a private room, he take Rastelli’s arm and quit the

salon.



Lewis stand gaze after his late opponent with a dark and troubled

countenance; it be not remorse that he experience, for be the

deed to have be do over again, he would not have shrink from its

performance; and yet the feeling which engross he partook of a

remorseful character--it seem to he as though he have now lose all

power of free will--he have take the first step, and _the rest_ must

follow; there be no long any possibility of turn back. like

one walk in his sleep, he permit himself to be lead into another

room--he hear, as in a dream, Rastelli enter and make arrangement with

a young austrian officer who have volunteer to act as his second for

his meeting Lord Bellefield at daybreak. as the person challenge, he

have the choice of weapon, but he waive his right, and allow his

opponent to select pistol. Ehrenburg (his second) whisper to he

that Lord Bellefield be report to be a dead shot, but an indifferent

swordsman.



“the more reason to allow he to choose pistol,” be Lewis’s careless

reply.



Ehrenburg still urge the madness of throw away a chance. “it will

be no boy’s play,” he say; “mark my word, Luigi, this duel will be one

for life or death.”



“do you think I do not know it?” return Lewis sternly, “ay, as well

as if I now see he lie dead before my foot,” and as he speak an

involuntary shudder pass through his powerful frame.



“may not another contingency be possible, _buon’ amico?_ especially if

you allow he to secure the advantage of pistol?” suggest Ehrenburg.



“would to Heaven it might so occur,” be Lewis’s eager reply; “I hope

no well fate than to die by his hand, believe I; but it will not

be so--I know--I feel it? Ehrenburg, that man have stand like some evil

spirit across my path; time after time he have heap insult upon I;

once, coward-like, the assassin seek my life; but till tonight I have

never oppose he. why? because it be write here” (and he touch

his forehead) “that when the final struggle shall come, my destiny be

strong than his, and he must perish. you may smile and deem my

word the mere raving of superstition, but you will see, _if_ we meet

to-morrow morning, Bellefield will never leave the ground alive, and I

shall quit it with the brand of Cain upon my brow.”



he speak so gravely and with such an evident belief in the reality of

his conviction, that for a moment Ehrenburg himself feel impressed. but

a duel be no very uncommon event with the young Austrian: he have be

principal on two occasion, when no serious result have follow, and

second on half-a-dozen more; besides, he be essentially a practical

man. so he merely shrug his shoulder, hint that Lewis’s nerve

might be excite, which would produce these little fancy, advise he

to take a cup of coffee, and then repair to the shooting-gallery and

practise steadily for an hour or so to get his hand in, promise to

be with he in good time on the follow morning, inquire whether

he could be of any further assistance, and then stroll back to the

gaming-table, relieve Lewis of his presence.



to gain his lodging and lock himself into his studio be scarcely the

work of five minute; then fling himself upon the first seat that

come in his way, he give himself up to bitter thought. two year ago he

have flee his country, have quit all who be dear to he, because his

fiery passion be beyond his control--because he have love too deeply

and hate too bitterly. he have plunge into a life of wild adventure to

dissipate his feeling; he have school his heart in solitude; he have

devote all his energy to the acquirement of an art; nay, he have

devote the first effort of the skill he have thus gain to embody a

visible representation of the danger of ill-bestow love and the curse

of gratified revenge; and _this_ be the result!



he remain for a few minute with his head rest on his hand,

apparently stun by his conflict feeling; then rouse himself by

an effort, he heave a deep sigh and draw out _the glove_. as his eye

fall upon the stain of blood, he shudder, and hastily put it from

he, begin pace up and down the apartment. an antique lamp hang by a

chain from the ceiling, throw its light strongly on the two picture

from the “Giaour.” Involuntarily Lewis pause before they, and remained

gaze from one to the other with an expression of remorse and horror.

“be I indeed about to realise these creation of my gloomy fancy?” he

murmur; “shall I become that human tiger, that stony, soulless image

of impenitent despair! revenge, how I have thirst for it, how, when

writhe under that man’s insult, I have picture to myself the day

of reckoning, and deem life itself would be a cheap sacrifice for one

hour of unlimited vengeance; and now, when this coveted boon lie within

my grasp, I see it in its true light, and own this wish-for blessing

to be a dark, consume curse. see through the distorted medium of

outraged feeling, retribution appear an act of justice. the demon wear

an angel’s form. but view in its true aspect, the sentiment be

that which lead to murder, and the deed, with its sickening detail,

revolting butchery. yet, see this clearly, know to what it will

lead, I _must_ go on: I owe _he_ satisfaction. satisfaction!” and he

smile at the mocking term. “yes,” he resume, “I _must_ go on, even if

I wish to turn back. if I _could_ forego my revenge and forgive he,

it be now too late. well, be it so; ’tis weakness to repine at the

inevitable. I will meet my fate boldly, be it what it may; and for he,

he have bring the punishment upon his own head, and must abide the

issue!” he resume his walk up and down the apartment; then a new

idea strike he. “what a strange expression her feature wear when she

venture to address I,” he say; “and in the crowd she do not

shrink from I, but trust herself to I with a gentle, child-like

confidence.” he pause, press his hand to his forehead, then

exclaim, “o God, if I have wrong she--if”--and here his voice sink

almost to a whisper--“if, Heaven help I, she should have love I after

all!”



completely overwrought by these conflict emotion, Lewis sink into

a chair, and bury his face in his hand, struggle in vain for

composure, a deep-draw, choke sob from time to time attest his

mental agony. how long he remain in this position he never know. it

might have be minute, for he take no note of thing external; it

might have be hour, for a lifetime of heartfelt desolation appear

crowded into that dark reverie. he be arouse at length by a tap at

the door, which, as at first he could scarcely collect his idea

sufficiently to attend to such sublunary matter, soon grow into a

loud and impatient knock with the handle of a stick or _umbrella_.

imagine it to be one of his artist friend, come probably to bring he

information in regard to the late disturbance, he reply in Italian

that he be particularly engage and could not see any one.



“polite and encouraging, certainly,” mutter a deep-toned voice, at

the first sound of which Lewis spring from his seat and listen with

an eager yet half incredulous expression of countenance. “a thousand and

one pardon, Signor,” continue the person on the outside, speak

in Italian, with a peculiarity of accent which prove he to be

unaccustomed to pronounce the language, or probably even to hear it

speak; “but you really must condescend to see I, even if Diabolus

himself be sup with you, and there be only macaroni enough for two.”



without a moment’s hesitation Lewis fling open the door, and there _in

proprio persono_ stand Richard Frere _and_ the cotton umbrella!



“frere, dear old fellow! be it, can it indeed be you?” exclaim Lewis

joyfully, forget for the moment everything in the surprise of

welcome such an unexpected visitant.



“yes, it’s I,” return frere, squeeze and shake his friend’s hand

as if he have a design of reduce it to a jelly. “Richard’s himself, and

no mistake. Lewis ben’t _him_self, though, it seem, but Signore

Luigi, forsooth. I have hard work to find you, I can tell you. but good

gracious! what have happen to the man?” he exclaim, catch sight

of Lewis’s bearded face and pale, haggard feature, “why, he have turn

into somebody else, bodily as well as in name. you look just like one

of these horrid italian fellow, with the proper tragic expression of

countenance which they get up by way of advertising that they be ready

and willing to cut throat at half-a-crown a windpipe, country

order punctually execute, and the business perform in a neat and

tradesman-like manner; but tell I seriously, you’re not ill?”



“not in body, nor usually in mind either,” be the reply; “but today

event have occur which have thoroughly unmanned I, still I shall

‘win through it,’ somehow; and now tell I of yourself, of Rose, of my

mother--they be well?”



“a good deal well than you seem to be,” growl Frere, who during this

speech have be attentively observe his friend’s feature; “however,

I’ll soon satisfy your curiosity--and then you shall satisfy mine,” he

add in an undertone, and remove a wonderful specie of travel

cap, he follow Lewis, who lead the way to his inner apartment, and

then listen eagerly to Frere’s account of the various event which

have take place since he have quit his native land. Rose, by Frere’s

special desire, have, in write to her brother, hitherto forbear to

allude to her engagement; the worthy bear, with a characteristic mixture

of deep-seat humility and surface vanity, fear that Lewis might not

think he a fitting match for his sister, and therefore feel anxious

that the matter should be disclose to he in the wise and most

judicious manner possible--by himself _viva voce_. thus, after having

speak of various less important matter, Frere be gradually work

his way towards the interesting disclosure with a degree of nervous

diffidence quite unusual to he, when Lewis, whose attention begin to

flag, bring he to the point by exclaim, “and about Rose, what

be she do: she tell I in her letter she still write for some

magazine; but be she look well? do she seem happy? though I

suppose,” he continue, try to hide his state of mind by fall in

with his friend’s jest mode of speech, “these be minor particular

into which it never occur to your wisdom to inquire. I know your old

habit of practically ignore the existence of woman as a sex, regard

they as a race of unscientific nonentity fit only ‘to suckle fool

and chronicle small beer.’”



Frere for a moment look rather disconcert; then veil his

discomfiture under an affectation of rough indifference, he reply,

“I can tell you one ‘minor particular,’ as you call it, and that be the

fact of the young lady in question be engage to be marry.”



“nonsense!” exclaim Lewis, start, “you be probably joke,” he

continue seriously; “but you know not, dear old friend, how deeply

such tiding might affect I at this moment; you know not--how should

you?--the mood of mind in which you find I; but tell I in a word, be

there any earnest in what you have say?”



“in a word,” mutter Frere, “hum! concise and epigrammatical that! but

I’ll try to accommodate you, so here go by way of answer. yes!”



“and she have never even hint at such a fact in her letter,” exclaim

Lewis; “out of sight, out of mind, indeed. I may have--Heaven help

me!--I _have_ neglect my trust, in my self-engrossment; but I do

not think Rose would have be the person thus to visit my sin upon my

head. who be the man?” he continue sternly. in the whole course of

his existence Frere have never feel more uncomfortable; all his old

diffidence and humility rush upon he, and for the moment he feel as

if he have be suddenly detect in an act of petty larceny; however,

his sturdiness of nature and common sense come to his rescue, and he

reply, “it be no fault of Rose’s, for _i_ make it an especial point

that she should not tell you of her engagement by letter.”



“_you_ do, and wherefore?” inquire Lewis in surprise.



“because I choose to tell you myself,” return Frere. “your sister be

not an angel, for angel live in heaven and not on earth, but she be the

most lovable, the most pure-minded, decidedly the sweetest-look woman

(though that do not so much signify) in this world, and I should have

add, the most sensible, only that she have, in her tenderness of heart,

see fit to promise to marry a rough, uncouth animal like I. Lewis, old

fellow,” he continue in a falter voice, “I know well than you can

do how unworthy I be of such a blessing, but if love she well than

my own life give I any title to possess she, Heaven know that I do

so.”



when Frere reach that point in his peroration at which he mention

Rose’s promise to marry he, his auditor start, and raise his eye,

murmur an ejaculation of fervent thankfulness. as he conclude, Lewis

clasp his hand eagerly in his own, say, “my dear old Frere,

you know not how happy you have make I; one great weight, which be

crush my soul to the dust ere you appear, be remove by your word.

of all man live you be the one I would have select for my dearest

Rose’s husband; and now, if I--that be to say, whatever befall I she

will be happy.”



“then you be not disappointed?” rejoin frere, greatly relieve; “you

know you use at one time to be just a very little bit ambitious, and I

fancy you might have be cherish some splendid scheme for marry

Rose to a duke--she’s good enough for the good of ’em, even if duke

be what they should be, instead of what they be too many of ’em.

well, I’m very glad!--but now about yourself--‘if anything befall you,’

you say; pray what be likely to befall you more than any other people?

and what do you mean by be crush by a weight, and by look so

melodramatically miserable?”



Lewis heave a deep sigh, and then reply, “you speak jestingly; but

there be many melodrama less strange than my wayward fortune: such as

it be, however, I have provoke and will go through with it. frere, you

love Rose for her own sake, be kind to and forbear with my mother for

mine--she have many fault, a giddy head, an impulsive disposition (than

which there can be no great temptation), but a warm heart--and--and I

feel I have never do a son’s duty by she. frere, you will take care of

she?”



the event of the day and evening have well-nigh exhausted even Lewis’s

untiring energy, and the sight of Frere arrive so unexpectedly have

bring back to he so many home memory, recollection of early

day, ere with the strength and freedom of manhood have come its

trial and its sin, that as he think of these old association and

remember kindness slight, affection cast away, duty neglect,

for the sake of that one master-passion, he forget for the time the

wrong he usually feel so keenly, and remorse for his selfish neglect

overwhelm he and cause his voice to falter and his eye to grow dim

with the mist of unshed tear. Frere perceive his emotion, and wait

till it have in a degree subside; then go up to he, he lay his hand

on his shoulder caressingly, say, “come, Lewis, we have know each

other from boyhood; we have long be brother in affection, and be

soon about to become so in name, associate by a still near tie--we

never use to have secret from each other, and should not do so now.

I have learn from Rose the cause you have have for sorrow, and for

two year have suffer you to try your own method of cure, without

attempt to interfere with you, but I now see that the experiment have

fail, and that you be miserable--be it not so?”



Lewis bow his head in token of assent, he could not trust himself to

speak.



“we be not place in this world to be miserable,” continue frere;

“true, this life be a state of trial, and it would not be so if we have

not many evil, temptation, and sorrow to endure; but by God’s help

the evil may be bear, the temptation overcome, and the sorrow turn

to joy, if we do not oppose our will to His; but if we do, sin lieth at

the door, we league ourselves with the enemy of mankind, and misery must

come of it. do not misunderstand I,” he add kindly; “I do not seek

to blame you, I can have no pleasure in so do, but on the contrary

deep pain; still it be evident your mind be disease, and if in

probe the wound to discover the nature of the evil I hurt you, you

must pardon I for the sake of the object I have in view. but! be

talk at random, for want of a more clear insight into the cause of

your present difficulty. come, be frank and open with I; let we face

the evil boldly, and between we devise some mean of overcome it.”



“what bring you here?” exclaim Lewis, suddenly raise his head and

fix his pierce eye full upon his friend’s countenance.



Frere smile a melancholy smile. “hot-head, petulant, and jealous of

interference yet!” he say. “my poor Lewis, I do not come to catechise

you--affair of quite another nature bring I here: I be try to

carry out an arrangement between my uncle Ashford and your _ci-devant_

foe, Lord Bellefield.” as he mention Lord Bellefield’s name Lewis

shudder, and his eye again seek the ground. “and now that I have

clear up this alarming doubt,” resume Frere, “tell I what ail you,

for that you be miserable, and that I mean to know wherefore, and do my

good to render you otherwise, be two self-evident fact.”



“’tis useless,” return Lewis in a low voice; “the die be cast, and

neither you nor any one else can help I. would to Heaven you have come a

day soon and take I away from this accursed place; as it be, my own

mad passion have hurry I on, and my fate be fix. now,” he continue,

glance at the clock, which stand at a quarter to twelve, “I must ask

you to leave I--we may meet to-morrow--or--if anything should prevent

it--and if--if I have not an opportunity of tell you all you seek

to know--my paper--that be, I will leave you a letter explain

everything--good-night.” scarcely able to control his voice in this

which Lewis feel might too probably be a last farewell, he hurry

through the speech in a strange, almost incoherent manner.



Frere regard he fixedly. “unless you condescend to explain to I what

you purpose do within the next twenty-four hour,” he say, “I’ll not

leave you till that time have expire. I tell you what it be, Lewis:

I have not live three-and-thirty year in the world without having

learn to read man’s face, and I read in yours that you be stand

on the verge of some great folly, madness, or--crime; and now, what be

it?”



Lewis pause for a moment in deep thought, and then say calmly, “sit

down, frere; you be an Englishman, and a man of highly honourable

feeling; moreover, you be my old, my most cherished friend. I be,

as you say, madden by circumstance and on the verge of a great crime;

sit down, I will tell you all, and you shall judge between God and man,

and I.”



calmly, clearly, truthfully, in the deep silence of night, do Lewis

recount to his friend the strange passage with which the reader be

already acquaint; he relate the simple fact, whether they tell for

or against he, just as they occur; without enter into unnecessary

detail he leave nothing important unsaid, till Frere have conceive a

clear idea of Lewis’s whole career from the hour he enter Broadhurst

to the moment in which he be speak.



“the upshot of all this be,” observe Lewis in conclusion, “that I be

weary of life; littleness, brutality, and oppression in man, weakness

and treachery in woman, and the tyranny of passion in oneself, render

this world an incipient hell. to-morrow must end it one way or the

other--either he will shoot I or I shall shoot he; the latter

contingency I shall not long survive; such remorse as I should feel

would be unendurable. to save myself from the guilt of suicide I

shall volunteer into some fighting regiment engage in these civil

broil--Tyrian or Trojan, Austrian or Venetian, I care little; my

sympathy side with one, my association with the other, and with

either I may obtain the only prize I covet--a soldier’s death.”



“now listen to I, Lewis,” return frere gravely. “I once at your own

request promise you that _while we both live I would never give you

up, but would stand between you and your fiery passion_, and I thank

God who in his mercy have send I here at this particular moment to

enable I to fulfil my engagement. you have suffer, and be suffer

deeply, and from my heart I pity you; but see, as I do only too

clearly, the cause of all this misery, it would be no kindness in I to

omit to point it out to you. your two lead fault of character, pride

and an overweaning degree of self-confidence, be at the bottom of it

all. Pride make Lord Bellefield your enemy--when he offer money for

the dog he never intend to insult you; your proud answer irritate his

pride, and from that time forth he seek to injure you--evil produce

evil, dislike grow to hatred, hatred begat revenge, revenge cherish

only require opportunity to become develop into assault and murder;

that opportunity have now arrive, you have be guilty of the first, you

contemplate the second. so much for pride--now for self-confidence. you

imagine nothing could tempt you to forget your dependent position in

General Grant’s family (a position which your pride lead you falsely to

consider a degradation) so far as to forfeit your self-respect by

love Annie, so you permit yourself to enjoy her society till

your affection be beyond your own control--mistake number one. then

self-confidence whisper that it would be heroic to overcome this

passion, so instead of avoid the danger, you stay to brave it till

you have sacrifice your happiness, if not hers also--mistake number two.

still untaught by experience, in your own strength you endeavour to

crush out the memory of the past; still think only of self, you flee

your country, recklessly sever tie and neglecting duty. two year’

vain struggle have prove your boasted strength to be abject weakness,

unable to save you from become the slave of your evil passion, and

I arrive here to find you contemplate the sin of--well, if I call

it murder you will deem that I exaggerate, so I will say the sin of

gambling in a lottery of manslaughter, with every chance against you.”

 Lewis again raise his eye to Frere’s face as he reply calmly, but in

a cold, hard tone of voice--



“you have describe my miserable career harshly indeed, but in the

main truly. you profess yourself my friend--in make this painful

recapitulation therefore I presume you to have some friendly object;

what be it?”



“first to exhibit to you the disease, then to point out the remedy,”

 return frere.



“and if you can do this,” exclaim Lewis--“if, remember what I be,

you can show I how I might have avoid my error in the past, how I

may do aught to retrieve they in the future, I will indeed reckon you

my friend--nay, I will bless your coming as that of an angel send from

heaven to aid a desperate, well-nigh a despairing man.”



“pray what religion do you profess?” ask Frere abruptly.



Lewis start, but recover himself, reply coldly, “the same as you

do yourself.”



“and do you believe in the truth of it?”



“why ask such a question?” return Lewis with a slight degree of

annoyance perceivable in his tone; “whatever may have be my fault, I

be no infidel.”



“I will tell you why I ask,” reply Frere; “because, though you

confess with your lip the truth of Christianity, in your life you have

practically deny they.”



Lewis make no answer, and Frere continue in an earnest, impressive

voice, his manner become every moment more animated as he grow excited

with his subject--



“if, as you say you do not doubt, Christianity be true, it amount to

this. the God who make and govern this world have be pleased to reveal

to we his will--namely, that if we believe in he and obey he, he will

save we from eternal misery and bestow upon we eternal happiness. to

enable we to fulfil the second condition, that of obedience, he have

give we a code, not so much of law as of principle of action, by

which we may become a law to ourselves. in order to demonstrate how

these abstract principle be applicable to the exigency of our

mundane career, he send his Son into the world, ‘a man subject to like

passion as ourselves, only without sin,’ _because_ he be a consistent

embodiment of the doctrine he teach. now have you take these precept,

to which you accord an unpractical and therefore an equally senseless

and useless belief, as the rule of your action, how different a result

would have follow; instead of provoke animosity by haughty look and

proud word, you would have remember that ‘a soft answer turneth away

wrath;’ instead of return evil for evil, you would have consider

the example of Him, who ‘when he be revile, revile not again,’ and

call to mind his precept, ‘resist not evil, do good to they that hate

you, and pray for they which despitefully use you and persecute you;’

instead of seek to avenge your own quarrel by deed of violence,

which outrage nature, and bring their own punishment with they even

here, in the pang of conscience, you would have think of his word

who hath say, ‘Vengeance be _mine_, I will repay,’ and leave your

cause in his hand. instead of attempt to do everything in your own

strength, and fail thus miserably, you would have recollect that

‘God’s strength be make perfect in our weakness,’ and pray to he

for support and assistance. even now, instead of having recklessly

determined to expose yourself to the chance of commit what you own

to be a crime of such frightful magnitude, that the remorse it must

entail on you would be unbearable, the question would be, not, how at

any sacrifice you must vindicate your honour in the eye of man, but

‘how then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God?”’ he

pause, then ask abruptly, “do you admit all this?”



Lewis’s feature work convulsively, as in a hollow, broken voice he

reply, “yes I do, God help I!”



“and he will help you,” return frere, “if your repentance be indeed

sincere; but that must be prove by act, not word--will you give up

your revenge, and agree not to meet Lord Bellefield tomorrow?”



“no, by Heaven!” exclaim Lewis fiercely, spring to his foot. “the

sole possession my father bequeath to I be his name and his spotless

honour, and it shall never be say that he leave they to one whom man have

a right to call coward.”



“and yet a coward you be,” return frere sternly, “not in the

particular of brute courage, share with you by the tiger and the wolf,

but in the far high attribute of moral courage, the martyr spirit

which enable the high order of mind to endure the scorn of worldly

man, rather than offend God and degrade themselves by the commission of

evil. I will ask one more question, and then I have do with you: you

say you believe in a future and eternal life--be you fit to enter

upon that life to-morrow through the dark portal of a sudden and violent

death?”



as Frere utter these awful word, in a tone of the deep solemnity,

Lewis, who have be impatiently pace the room, stop short as though

arrest in his course by a thunderstroke. place his hand to his brow,

he stagger as if about to fall, and Frere spring up to support he.

recover himself, he murmured--



“I must be alone, in half-an-hour you shall know my decision.”



then open the door, he motion to Frere to await he in the

painting-room, and close it after he, lock it. what pass in that

half-hour--how, prostrate before the Great White Throne, the proud

man wrestle with his agony, can be know but to one, the Searcher of

Hearts. when, at the expiration of the prescribed time, the door be

gently unclosed and Frere enter, he find Lewis, pale indeed and

trembling, but calm as a little child.



“bless you, dear old friend!” he say, “_truth and you have conquer_;

I place myself in your hand--do with I as you will.”









CHAPTER LXIII.--SHOWS how it fare with the LAMB which the WOLF HAD

WORRIED.



about nine o’clock in the evening mark by the occurrence of the

event narrate in the last chapter, General Grant be inform that a

young man, who refuse to give his name, request five minute’ private

conversation with he. somewhat surprised at this demand, the General

follow the servant into an apartment use by Charles Leicester as a

study, and desire that the person might be show in; in another moment

a tall, swarthy young fellow, dress in the garb usually wear by the

low class in Venice, make his appearance. as soon as the servant have

quit the room, the stranger present a note to the General, say,

“if you will read that, sir, you will perceive the object of my visit,

and learn the necessity which force I to intrude upon you at such an

untimely hour.”



the note, which be write in a delicate but somewhat illegible female

hand, run as follows:--



“a die woman implore you, sir, to visit she; not for her own sake,

for her hope rest in God and not in man, but for the sake of one who

must be dear to you in the world--your daughter. the writer have

information to impart to you which may save you and she from year of

deep misery. the bearer of this note will conduct you safely to

one who again implore you by all you hold sacred not to neglect this

summon, or delay return with the messenger, lest you should arrive

_too_ late. the writer pledge her word, the word of one about to enter

upon eternity, that you shall return safely.”



“this be a very strange note,” observe General Grant, suspiciously

eye the young man, who stand await his decision; “how be I to know

that this be not some cunningly devise scheme, dangerous to my life or

liberty?”



“I swear to you that you may safely trust I,” reply the stranger

eagerly; “adopt what precaution you will, leave your money, or aught

that be of value, at home--take pistol with you, and if you see any

sign of treachery, shoot I through the head. I _could_ tell you

that which would render you as eager to accompany I as you now appear

unwilling to do so, but I have promise to leave _her_ to explain the

affair as seem to her good--she be my sister, and die; if you delay

you will arrive too late.”



“you be an Englishman, I presume?” inquire the General, still

undecided.



“I be so,” be the reply, “and have serve my country on board a

man-of-war.”



“a sailor! what be your captain’s name, and what ship do you belong

to?” demand the General.



“‘the Prometheus’--Captain manver,” be the concise answer.



“be you in she during the year 18----?” continue his questioner, and

receive a reply in the affirmative, add, “where be you station

then?”



“we accompany a convoy of transport, take the----th and----th foot

to Madras, and then proceed to China,” be the answer.



the General nod approvingly. “quite true,” he say; “Captain Manvers

be a friend of my own, and I know his vessel to have be then employ

as you have state. I will trust you; wait five minute while I prepare

to accompany you.”



within the time he have mention General Grant return, wrap in a

military cloak, beneath which he wear a belt support a sabre and a

brace of pistol.



“if I do not return in two hour, give this note to Mr. Leicester,” he

say to the servant who attend they to the door; then motion to the

stranger to precede he, he quit the Palazzo Grassini. leave the

square of St. Mark they advance towards the Rialto; cross this, and

pass the fruit and vegetable market beyond, they reach a spot where

a gondola be moor. having step into it, the General, on a signal

from his guide, seat himself near the stern, while the young sailor

take an oar and assist his companion in propel the light vessel.

having proceed some short distance in this manner, the rower pause

at a flight of step. here the stranger signify to General Grant that

they must disembark; then resume his office of guide, he lead the way

along the bank of the canal, and through court and narrow alley,

inhabit by the low order of Venice, till he stop before a

rude door. at this he tap twice in a peculiar manner. an old crone

appear in obedience to his summon, and cautiously unclose the door,

admit they. take a lamp from her hand, the young man lead the way up

a steep flight of stair, closely follow by his companion.



“wait one minute,” he say as they reach the top; return almost

immediately, he continue in a low whisper--



“she be awake and perfectly collect, but appear sink fast; she

be anxious to see you without delay; tread as lightly as possible, and

follow I.”



advance a few step, he open the door of a bedroom, and the General,

stoop his head to avoid strike it against the top of the doorway,

enter. the apartment, though small, be clean and more comfortably

fit up than from the external appearance of the house he have be lead

to expect. on a low truckle bed, in one corner of the room, lie the form

of the die girl; at a sign from her brother, General Grant approach,

and seat himself on a chair by the bedside, wait till she should

address he. for a few minute she appear quite unable to do so,

and her visitor fear, as he gaze on her emaciated form and sink

feature, that she have indeed delay her communication till the

paralysis of come death have seal her lip, never again to unclose

in this life. in his early day General Grant have be familiar with

death in some of its most appalling shape; he have see man fall by his

side, mutilate by ghastly sabre wound, to be trample under the hoof

of madden, plunge horse; he have stand immovable when the deadly

artillery plough up the ground around he and mow down whole rank

as the scythe of the reaper prostrate the nodding corn; and when the

word of command have go forth, he have lead on the stern remnant that

be leave, till the bayonet avenge the loss they have sustain; and

when the fight be win, he have sit by the couch of some wound comrade,

and watch the strong man battle as it be with death, and yield his

last sigh in a fruitless struggle with the inexorable enemy. but he have

never before see any one wear to the brink of the grave by sorrow

and disease, and despite his utmost effort to the contrary, the sight

shock and distress he deeply. the picturesque stage of decline

have long since pass away, and in the appearance of his victim the

destroyer stood reveal in his true colour. the feature of the poor

sufferer be characterise by an expression of fatigue and distress,

that tell of long day and weary night of patient endurance; she be so

emaciate that the form of the skull and the outline of the bone of the

cheek and jaw be distinctly visible through the parchment-like skin,

give a strange, unearthly appearance to the face, while the parch

lip, the dark fever spot burn in the centre of each cheek, and at

interval the low, husky cough, which once hear can never be mistake,

evince only too surely the presence of that fell disease, which seem,

as its peculiar attribute, to select its victim amongst the young and

fair. her whole appearance be so worn and corpse-like, that when, after

a paroxysm of cough, she raise her droop eyelid and fix she

earnest, appeal glance upon her visitor, he start as though he have

see one raise from the dead by the agency of some special miracle.



“I thank God that you be come, sir,” she say in a low, sweet voice,

“that I may yet do some good before I die. I have be the cause of much

evil in my short life, and I feel it be a duty to tell you the truth of

my sad history, and do the little that be possible to save another from

endure the same misery that have bring I to the condition in which

you see I.” she pause, and the silent, inward cough--the voice of

death--again shake her fragile frame. “you do not know I,” she resume;

“I be Jane Hardy.” as she mention her name the General start, and

bend his head, drink in she every word with deep attention. “about

three year ago,” she continue, “or perhaps rather less, a gentleman

who be stay at Broadhurst be throw from his horse while hunt.

he be stun by the fall, and some of his companion bring he to

our cottage. there be no one but myself at home, and I fetch water

and bathe his temple. as soon as he begin to revive, the friend who

have bring he say laughingly that they could not leave he in well

hand, and quit we to follow the hunt. as the gentleman begin to

recover he enter into conversation with I. he be very witty and

clever, and tell I of the fine sight he have see in foreign land, and

many other beautiful and wonderful thing which I have never hear of,

and before he go away he draw I to his side and kiss I, and say

he should come again to see his kind little nurse, and I--God help I--I

be young and simple, and I believe all he say, and from that hour I

love he. well, sir, he come not only once, but often, and I listen

to his soft word and specious promise until I cease to think of or

care for anything but he. I have no mother to warn I; my poor father

have become stem and morose, and I fear he and seek only to conceal

my attachment from he. with some of the fact you, sir, be already

acquainted. my father be capture on one of his poach expedition

and send to gaol. I sit up the whole night wait for his return, and

in the early morning come, not he whom I be expect, but my tempter.

he tell I what have occur, reveal to I for the first time his real

rank, promise to obtain my father’s pardon by mean of his wealth and

influence, and, as the price of his assistance, implore I to fly with

he. he could not make I his bride in England, he say; his position

forbid it; but he vow he would carry I to some bright land in the

sunny south, and that we should be unite and live happily there. weak

fool that I be! I believe he, and consent.



“the rest of the tale be soon tell. I accompany he to London; he

be kind to I, and my dream continue. by his desire I follow he to

Rome, under the care of his valet. for a time I be treat with every

attention; servant obey I, luxury surround I; but his promise

of marriage he never fulfil. then he begin to grow tired of I, and

my punishment commence. he soon prove to I the true nature of his

disposition; his temper be fearful, at once passionate, sulky, and

vindictive, and I be a safe object on which to vent it. still I

could have bear this uncomplainingly if I could have believe that he

continue to love I. but his coldness and indifference become every

hour more apparent, till at length I awake one morning to learn that he

have desert I. I discover his direction and write to he. I forbore

reproach; I know that I have lose his love--I know, alas! too late,

that he have never really love I, and all I seek be to return to

England, beg my father’s forgiveness, and then, if it please God, to

die. but I entreat he to send I money enough to take I home again.

he leave my letter unanswered for a week, and then enclose I a cheque

for five pound, tell I that I have already cost he more than I be

worth, and that I need expect nothing far at his hand.”



“and the name of this diabolical scoundrel was---?” inquire



General Grant eagerly.



“Lord Bellefield,” be the reply, in a clear, distinct, though feeble

tone of voice.



“what proof can you give I of this?” be the cautious rejoinder.



“these letter,” return the girl, produce a small packet from

beneath her pillow.



the General take they, examine the post-mark and the seal, compare

the signature with that of a letter he take out of his pocket, read

two or three of they and then return they, mutter in a voice that

tremble with suppress rage, “they be genuine, and they be _his_.”



“the rest of my tale be soon tell,” resume Jane Hardy. “Lord Bellefield

have leave debt behind he, and when it be know he have quit Rome,

not mean to return, those to whom he owe money seize the few

valuable that I possess (chiefly dress and trinket which _he_ have

give I), and my last hope, that of return to England, be take

from I.” here a fit of coughing, prolong till it seem as though it

must annihilate her feeble frame, effectually interrupt the speaker.

her brother hold a strengthen cordial to her parch lip, and after

a lapse of some minute she be enable to resume her narration, though

her voice be so weak and husky that it be with difficulty her auditor

could catch her word. “I have little more to tell,” she say. “I

suffer much, very much misery, but, thank to the kindness of some

sister of charity (rightly be they so call), I be save from the

depth of degradation into which too many, desert as I be, have be

force.” again she pause from weakness, and with the tenderness of

a woman Miles Hardy wipe the cold dew of approach death from she

brow, and put back the rich masse of she (even yet) beautiful hair. the

General be visibly affect.



“can nothing be do to save she?” he say; “I will ascertain who be

the most skilful physician in Venice and send they to she. no money

shall be spare.”



a dark look flit across Miles’s face, but the die girl turn

towards the speaker, and a faint smile testify that she have hear and

understand he.



“tell I,” she whisper, “that my last moment have not be spend in

vain. your daughter--they say she be good and beautiful; he will take

her heart for the plaything of an hour and then crush it as he have

crush mine. you will not let she marry he?”



“Sooner would I see she stretch on her death-bed before I,” be the

stern rejoinder.



the girl smile again. “you have make I so happy,” she whisper; then

with difficulty, and pause between each word, she continue, “tell he

I forgive he and pray for he; I pray that he may repent.” again she

pause, apparently struggle for breath: “Miles, it be very dark,” she

say; “come nearer, dear!” her brother place his arm round she, and

nestle her head in his bosom, an expression of child-like happiness

spread over her feature. having lain thus for some moment she suddenly

start up, exclaim aloud, “oh God! my chest!” in a moment the severe

pain seem to pass away and the happy smile return. “may he bless

you, dearest!” she murmur; then a solemn change come over her

countenance, there be a slight struggle, and then--the jaw relaxed, the

eye glaze, and she fall back in her brother’s arm a corpse.



[illustration: 0496]



when later on that night woman come to perform the last sad office to

the dead, an English Bible be find beneath the pillow, and a leaf be

turn down at the text, “her sin, which be many, be forgive, for

she love much;” word of mercy we should do well to bear in mind, and

humbly trust they may indicate the future of many a “broken and contrite

heart.”



while General Grant be thus occupy, Annie, little dreaming of the

various event that have occur, and which so nearly concerned her

happiness, be think over the scene of the morning, and afflict

her spirit by the recollection of Lewis’s parting word. what would

she not give that he could know the truth; know _why_ she have allow

herself to be engage to a man whom Lewis have good reason to believe she

both dislike and fear; but it be impossible, situate as she be,

to enlighten he, and she must submit to bear that most bitter of all

trial, the knowledge that one we love think evil of we, and have just

and reasonable ground for such misconception. then her engagement to

Lord Bellefield, now more hateful to she than ever--what should she

do to avoid it? to whom should she turn for counsel and

assistance?--Laura?--she have great faith in her good sense, and, above

all, in her energy of character--could she, dare she, confide in she?

and she have just settle that she certainly could _not_ when a gentle

tap be hear at the door. Annie cry, “come in,” and Laura enter.



“I hope I be not disturb you, dear,” she say, “but I grow fidgety

about you, fear the alarm and fatigue of the morning might have be

too much for your strength.”



Annie smile mournfully and shake her head, at the same time make room

for her friend on the settee upon which she be recline. Laura place

herself by her side, and take Annie’s hand in her own, stroke it

caressingly.



“poor little hand,” she say; “how soft and white it be, but it’s

get sadly thin; really, dear Annie, I must lecture you. you eat

nothing, and your spirit have quite desert you--you who be such a

happy, merry little thing--it make I miserable to see you.”



she pause for a reply, and at length it come, but in a form she do not

expect, and which tend not at all to remove her anxiety.



“do you think I be very ill, Laura?” Annie ask; “so ill that I be at

all likely to die?”



“no, darling; I hope--I trust not,” return Laura earnestly; “but why

do you ask, and in so strange a tone that one could almost fancy you

wish that it might be so?”



“because I do wish it,” be the sad rejoinder; “if I live I must be very

unhappy--there be no help for it, and so I wish to die. be that wrong? I

be afraid it be.”



Laura pause ere she replied--



“I don’t think you be likely to die--grief kill very slowly. I be

sure you need not die of grief, or seek to die to escape a life of

unhappiness, if you would only be reasonable. I love you as I should

have love a sister, have I possess one; my only desire be to render

you happy; I be a woman, as yourself, and as little likely as you

would be, be our situation reverse, to do or counsel anything which

could wound your feeling or compromise your delicacy; and yet you lock

your sorrow in your own breast, and refuse to give I sufficient

insight into your heart to enable I to be of the slight comfort or

assistance to you. be this wise or even kind?”



such an appeal, come at that particular moment, be irresistible.

Annie throw her arm round her friend, hide her face on Laura’s shoulder,

and sink her voice almost to a whisper, inquired--



“what be it you wish to know?”



“you dislike Lord Bellefield, and be anxious not to marry he?”



“yes, oh, yes!” be the unmistakable answer.



“you love----”



Annie draw back, but Laura’s arm, pass round her slender waist,

detain she.



“you love Lewis Arundel?”



this time Annie do not reply, but a convulsive pressure of the hand

answer Laura’s question well than word could have do.



“then, if you love he as he deserve to be love, how could you allow

yourself to be force into an engagement with Lord Bellefield?”



“must I, indeed, reveal to you all my folly and weakness?” murmur poor

Annie.



“really I be afraid you must, dear, if you wish my advice to be of the

small use to you,” return Laura with a kind, encourage smile;

“but perhaps the folly may prove not to have be so very foolish, and

the weakness turn out amiable one after all. come, let we hear!” thus

urge, Annie recount with smile, and tear, and word, now drop

in broken sentence, now pour forth with all the eager vehemence with

which feeling long restrain at length find vent, that portion of this

veritable history which especially relate to herself, and the rise

and progress of her unfortunate attachment; until she reach the

point whereat, overwhelm by the belief that Lewis have depart from

Broadhurst, suspect her love and not reciprocate it, she have

permit herself to be hurry into an engagement with Lord Bellefield,

sacrifice herself to guard against the possibility of any imputation

be cast upon her maidenly reserve. here Laura interrupt she by

exclaiming--



“my poor child! I see it all now; you be to be pity, not blame;

would to Heaven you have know the truth early! how much misery it

might have save you. Lewis Arundel quit Broadhurst because he love

you with all the impassioned tenderness of his fiery nature, and find

even his iron will powerless to control or even long to conceal his

feeling.”



“how do you know this?” exclaim Annie, sweep back her luxuriant

ringlet from her flushed cheek, and fix her large, eager eye upon

her friend’s countenance.



“from his own lip when he first hear that you be come here,” be

the reply. and Annie, press her hand to her eye, hide her face in

the sofa cushion and burst into tear; but this time they be tear of

joy.



then, when she have in some degree recover from her agitation, Annie

learn the history of Lewis’s wandering to cure his love, and how

signally the remedy have fail, and how he have turn painter, and be

cleverer than anybody else (a fact of which she feel convinced before

she hear it), and how Laura have discover his secret through the

medium of his sketch of Annie and Faust--(she do not mention the

“Giaour” picture, fear to alarm her friend)--and how Charles and she

have see a great deal of he and become very fond of he (oh how Annie

love she for say that!), and how at last one day she have gain his

confidence and he have tell she all, and how she have resolve never to

breathe a syllable of it to Annie unless she could clear herself in the

matter of accept Lord Bellefield, and thus prove herself not unworthy

to possess the knowledge that the priceless blessing of Lewis’s noble

and generous heart be her, and hers only. and when Laura have finish,

Annie, like a true woman, contrive by a series of “cunning-simple”

 question to make she tell her tale all over again, particularly those

portion which relate to Lewis’s nobleness of nature, and the depth,

strength, and permanent quality of his affection for herself; and when

all have be say and re-say that could by any possibility be find to

say, even on this interesting matter, Annie fix her soft, implore

eye on her friend’s countenance, and ask in a tone of the most

innocent but complete helplessness--



“and now, dear Laura, tell I what _be_ to be do?”



up to this moment Laura have consider the whole question to hinge on

one point--be Annie worthy of the love of such a man as Lewis, or not?

this satisfactorily decide, all other difficulty seem by comparison

insignificant; but now, when the monster obstacle have disappear, the

engagement to Lord Bellefield, the General’s obstinacy, Lewis’s pride,

Annie’s womanly reserve, and Charley’s indolence and dislike of say

or do anything which could by the most remote possibility irritate or

annoy any one, all flash across she and bewilder she. still she have

great faith in her own energy and in the goodness of her cause, and so

reply vaguely, but confidently--



“why, my love! it’s perfectly absurd to give way to despair as you have

be do; of course something must, and therefore can and shall

be do; but what it be to be will, I confess, require some little

consideration!”



and just when their deliberation have reach this point, Laura receive

a summon from her husband to say that he desire to speak with she; so

she imprint a kiss on Annie’s smooth brow, and they part.



“I say, Laura, read this,” exclaim Charley, look worried and

perplex, as he hand his wife the follow note:--



“Dear Charles, I have desire your servant to give you this note in case

I should not return in the course of the next two hour. I be about

to accompany a young stranger, represent himself to be an english

sailor, to visit his sister, who be say to be on her death-bed, and have

some communication to make to I. I have examine the man, and believe

his tale; but if I should not return within the time specify, it be

probably a clever fabrication, and as no lie can be frame for other

than an evil purpose you have well apply at once to the police, and

look after I in whatever way they may advise.



“your faithfully,



“Archibald Grant.”









CHAPTER LXIV.--THE FATE of the WOLF!



“pleasant that,” resume Charley, as Laura, having finish read the

note, return it with look of alarm. “Evans declare it’s more than

two hour since Governor Grant start, and there be no sign of he

yet. why people cann’t stay quietly at home when they’ve get a good house

over their head, instead of rush out to seek dangerous adventure, I

cann’t think. I should have suppose the General have arrive at a time of

life when he would have sense enough not to be gull by message

from girl, either live or die. perhaps the summon be mean for

Bellefield after all, and the bearer deliver it to the wrong man; what

a joke that would be, eh?”



“really, Charles, I don’t think it be anything to laugh at,” return

Laura anxiously; “be your brother at home?”



“no, Belle’s out too; my family be becoming shockingly dissipate.”



“have you not well apply to the police, as the note propose?” urge

Laura.



“Police, indeed!” mutter Charley: “the General cann’t remember that he

be out of London. I wonder he do not direct I to send a cab for he.

these confound sulky austrian official be rather different customer

to deal with from our blue-bottle--Messrs. Al & Co. the only thing be

to go down to the consul’s office, and that must be do, I suppose, but

it’s an awful bore.”



so say, Charley yawn, stretch himself, make Laura ring for his

boot, and have just accomplish the labour of pull they on, when

rapid footstep be hear--door open and shut, and the object of

their anxiety stand before they, his face flush with exercise, and

his whole manner bear trace of excitement and agitation. “well,

General,” begin Charley, “we be just go to commence fishing for you

in all the canals----” when his auditor interrupt he by inquire in

a quick, eager voice--



“your brother be not in the house, be he?”



“no; he have be out all the evening, and be not yet return,” be the

reply.



“leave we, Laura, there’s a good girl,” exclaim the General; “stay,”

 he continue, as Laura be quit the room, “do not say anything which

can alarm Annie.”



Laura nod her acquiescence and depart.



“I be very anxious about your brother,” resume the General. “as I be

return from this most strange and painful interview, the young man

who have summon I still act as my guide, some person follow we,

and as we be cross the Rialto approach, and tap my companion

on the shoulder, detain he. they converse in Italian, but I make

out enough of what they say to catch the following word speak by the

new-comer--



“‘I have watch he the evening through. he go from----’ (the name

of the place I could not hear) ‘to----, which he have this moment

quit. Jacopo and the other be prepare; we only await your

direction. why have you not join we soon?’



“‘it be impossible,’ be the reply; ‘but all will yet go as it should.’



“then, turn to I, my guide continue, ‘you have now only to walk

straight on to reach the Square of St. Mark; no one will interrupt you.

Farewell, sir; and remember _her_ wish.’



“this refer to his poor sister, about whom I will tell you another

time. he and his companion then quit I. mechanically I walk

forward, reflect on the interview, which have harass and distress

I greatly, till, recall the word I have just overhear, a new idea

strike I, and I turn and look back; as I do so I perceive, at

some distance off, a man carelessly advance towards I--at the moment

several other rush out upon he; there be a short struggle, then,

as it seem to I, he be overpower, a cloak be fling over his head,

and he be hurry away. instantly I run to the spot, but it be some

considerable distance from the place where I have be stand, and when

I arrive there, no trace of they be visible. the whole affair from

begin to end be over in less than a minute, but from the glimpse I

have, I feel convinced the man I see carry off be your brother.”



“nonsense,” exclaim Charles, starting, “kidnap Bellefield! why, what

possible motive could anybody have for do that?”



“one only too powerful--revenge!” be the alarming reply. “my guide be

young Hardy, whose sister Bellefield have cruelly betray and forsake.

Come, Charles, let we obtain aid to seek and save he: God grant we may

not arrive too late.”



we must now return to Lord Bellefield. after the disturbance at

the Casino, his lordship, accompany by Rastelli, repair to a

shooting-gallery, where he practise with pistol for an hour. having by

repeat success assure himself that his late fall have not shake his

nerve to a degree which could interfere with his skill as a duellist,

he turn to his companion, observe, “now, Rastelli, devise some

method of kill time for the next hour or so; I be anxious not to

return to the Palazzo Grassini till the family have retire for the

night. I have rather avoid meet any of they till this little affair be

over. what can we contrive to do with ourselves?”



“come home with I, and let we have a quiet game at _écarté_,” be the

reply; “that will amuse without excite you. I wish you to keep cool,

in order that you may punish for his temerity the insolent Luigi.” as he

speak the dark eye of the italian flash with the fire of revenge.



Lord Bellefield remark his eagerness, and smile contemptuously. “Calm

yourself, my good Rastelli,” he say, quietly light a cigar; “justice

shall be do, depend on it.”



“how cold and phlegmatic you English be!” exclaim Rastelli, irritated

at his companion’s apparent apathy; “have the brigand insult I as he

have insult you, if I have not stab he on the spot, I should have

know no peace till he lie bleed at my foot.”



Lord Bellefield place his hand on his friend’s shoulder, and

approach his lip to his ear, say in a low, impressive voice,

“listen! we englishman do not talk about these thing, we _do_ they.”

 there be a cold, grating bitterness in his tone, which tell of such

fiendish malice work at his heart that the italian’s display of

boyish passion shrink into insignificance beside it.



together they repair to Rastelli’s dwelling; card be produce,

and their game begin. with the calculate prudence of an accomplished

gamester, Lord Bellefield play cautiously and for moderate sum till

he have test his adversary’s calibre; then, confident in his own skill,

he artfully lead on the young Italian to propose high stake, until,

at the expiration of an hour and a half, he have win above a couple of

hundred pound.



“you be become excited and begin to play wildly, _amico mio_,” he

say, push back his chair; “we will pause for tonight.”



“and when will you give I my revenge?” inquire the Italian with

flush cheek and tremble lip.



“when you like--to-morrow evening, if it so please you--always

suppose our peep-of-day amusement go as it should do,” answer Lord

Bellefield carelessly.



“and what if you should be hit?” question Rastelli with a grim smile,

which involuntarily suggest to his auditor the idea that such a

catastrophe would not deeply distress he.



“to provide against such a contingency I shall make my will tonight,

and appoint you executor and residuary legatee; so that when you have

satisfy the few claim against I, the remainder of my property will

be your, to compensate for this evening’s run of ill-luck,” be the

jest reply.



Rastelli, have by this time in a degree recover his good humour,

answer in the same light tone; then having make their final

arrangement for the morrow’s meeting, they shake hand and part.



as Lord Bellefield gain the street, the conventional smile fade from

his lip, and a dark, sullen expression impart a gloomy ferocity to

his countenance. his look do not belie the nature of his thought,

which run somewhat after the follow fashion:--



“a pretty thing I’m in for--to think of that accurse arundel turning

up in such an out-of-the-way place as this! my ill-luck follow I

everywhere. that scoundrel be my evil genius. I shall be rid of he

to-morrow though, for I’ll shoot he like a dog; that’s some comfort.”

 he pause, then a new idea seem to strike he, and he mutter, “curse

he, he mean to murder I; I read it in his fiendish eye. I wonder

whether he be anything of a shot? a nice way to lose one’s life, in

a quarrel with a tutor! it’s next door to go out with one’s valet.

well, I’m in for it, and must chance it; a quick aim and a hair trigger

may pick he off, as it have do many a well fellow, before he have

time to be mischievous. I wonder whether Charles or old Grant know of

his be here? if not, the thing can be easily hush up.” a sound as

of a man’s footstep cause he to start and look round, but see no

one he resume, “assassination be say to be one of the fashion of this

place; I wish I be a little more _au fait_ as to the custom of the

native, or have long time to act in. I might get my friend quietly

dispose of without risk or trouble.” he reflect a moment on the

feasibility of such a scheme; but the spirit of revenge and hate

be strong within he, and mutter a fearful curse, he add,

“No!------------him, I’d rather shoot he with my own hand; that blow

stick by I.”



at this moment a man start out from a dark archway so suddenly

as nearly to run against Lord Bellefield, who, draw himself up

indignantly, be about to commence an angry remonstrance, when his

elbow be pinion from behind, some person trip up his heel, a

cloak be fling over his head, and despite his attempt to free himself,

he be overpower and hurry away by a party of several man. after

proceed some short distance they reach the bank of a canal; here

they pause, and still hold the cloak over the captive’s head to

prevent he from give an alarm, they bind his hand. one who seem

to possess authority over the other superintend this operation in

person.



“not so tight,” he say to an over-zealous individual who be tie the

cord as though it be never to be unfasten, “not so tight, it

will numb his arm. now,” he continue, “raise he carefully;” and in

obedience to his command Lord Bellefield feel himself lift from his

foot and place in a lie posture at the bottom of what he rightly

imagine to be a gondola.



having ascertain by listen that a portion of his captor be

engage in row the boat, Lord Bellefield make an effort to remove

the cloak from his face, at the same time slightly raise himself;

immediately a heavy hand press he down, and a deep, low voice utter

the follow caution, “there be the point of a knife within an inch of

your heart; if you again attempt to move or speak I plunge it in!”



thus warn, nothing remain but to lie still and await his captor’s

pleasure, which alternative, distract by mingled rage and fear, Lord

Bellefield be force to adopt. from the time occupy by their transit

it appear that they must have proceed some considerable distance ere

the gondola again stop. carefully guard as before, the prisoner

be take on shore, and half-lead, half-carry over some uneven, stony

ground, in traverse which his conductor be more than once force to

turn aside as if to avoid some obstacle that lie in their path; he be

then tell to ascend step; door be unbarred to afford they

ingress, and the air strike cold and damp, as from a vault. at length,

apparently, they reach their destination, and the prisoner be make to

sit down on a stone bench; a light be procure, and then the order be

give, “untie his hand, remove the cloak, and leave we.”



the person speak to obey, and in another moment Lord Bellefield be

able to look round he. the chamber in which he find himself be small,

the roof be high and vault, and the wall appear of an immense

thickness; the door be of oak, thickly stud with iron nail-head;

there be no fireplace; a ship’s lantern, hang by a cord from the

roof, dimly light the apartment, and a grated window, sink in the

thickness of the wall, seem to afford the only mean of communication

with the outward air. as Lord Bellefield become aware of these

particular the man who have release his hand and remove the cloak

quit the room, lock and bar the door on the outside; in

another moment the sound of their retreating footstep echo along the

stone passage and die away in the distance. a shudder pass over Lord

Bellefield’s frame as he find himself thus strangely leave alone with

one whose purpose he could scarcely imagine other than hostile. as

his companion--who wear one of those half-mask term a domino, which

effectually conceal his feature--do not seem inclined to address

he, Lord Bellefield have time to examine, with a beat heart, the

preparation make for his reception. the only article of furniture the

apartment contain, with the exception of the stone bench on which he

be seat, be a heavy oak table. at the end near he lie a cutlass,

the blade cross by that of a stiletto, in front of which be place a

load pistol. a similar arrangement of weapon garnish the other end

of the table, at which stand the motionless figure of the stranger. the

whole thing be so strange, and so like some fancy of a horrible dream,

that it be with difficulty Lord Bellefield could believe the evidence

of his sense. at length the silence become unendurable to such a degree

that, even at the risk of hurry on his fate, he resolve to break it.

address his captor, he ask, in a voice which tremble in spite of

his effort to appear cool and indifferent, “what place be this to which

you have bring I?”



the person address pause a moment, and then, without remove his

mask, reply, “a vault in the ruin of a convent on an island in the

lagune, a mile from Venice.”



up to this moment Lord Bellefield have be possess with a secret

belief that his captor be none other than Lewis Arundel; and having

already have a convincing proof both of his enemy’s bodily strength and

of the implacable nature of his feeling towards he, the idea that he

have kidnap he and carry he off to this desolate place in order to

force upon he a combat _à l’outrance_, with weapon in the use of which

his skill as a duellist would avail he little, be by no mean an

agreeable one. this fear his companion’s speech have dispel, for the

voice, though deep and stern, be not the voice of Lewis. Ignorant of

the existence of any other person likely to nourish deep feeling of

revenge against he, Lord Bellefield immediately conceive that he have

fall into the hand of some english ruffian connect with banditti,

in which case their object would probably be plunder; and the solitary

chamber, the naked weapon, etc., mere scenic arrangement get up for

the sake of intimidate he, and so make a well bargain. much

relieve by this view of the affair, he began--



“your object in bring I here be of course plunder, all this absurd

mummery be therefore utterly needless; you have only to name some

reasonable sum for my ransom, and as I cannot get out of the scrape

otherwise, I must pay it.”



“you will find it no mummery, and be wrong in suppose money will be

of the slight avail to you,” be the reply.



Lord Bellefield, however, still consider his idea a right one, and

accounting for this speech as he have already account for the presence

of the weapon--viz., as a means of intimidate he, in order to extort

from his fear a high ransom, continued--



“my good fellow, you have completely mistake your man; all your tragedy

nonsense be quite throw away upon I. the affair be simply a matter of

business: you require money, and know my rank, imagine I a Croesus.

I be nothing of the kind, but I can make it well worth your while to set

I free; conduct I safely to the Square of St. Mark, and I will give

you a hundred napoleon.”



“a million curse on your money!” exclaim the other furiously; “may

the bitter malediction of a desperate man cleave to the rank and rich

which have serve to add a false splendour to as mean and pitiful a

scoundrel as ever disgrace God’s earth. fool! let I undeceive you--I

be Miles Hardy” (as he speak he fling down his mask), “the brother of

Jane--your victim--I have bring you here _to die_. now do you think

your money, that money which you refuse to give to save she from a

life of infamy, or a beggar’s death, be likely to bribe I to change my

purpose?”



for a moment Lord Bellefield be utterly confound by this declaration;

he have never be aware that Jane possess a brother, and the surprise

add to his discomfiture; besides, harden as he be, he know that he

have deeply wrong the girl, and a superstitious instinct of the justice

of the retribution which have overtake he help still more effectually

to terrify and crush he: for once both his haughty spirit and his

presence of mind fail he, and mistake the character of the man with

whom he have to deal, he resolve first if possible to deceive, then to

cajole and bribe he.



“refuse money to Jane Hardy!” he begin in a tone of feigned surprise;

“you must have strangely deceive yourself: while she remain with I

I lavish hundred upon she, and when, with the caprice of her sex, she

choose to leave I for some more favoured swain, as I imagine, ignorance

of her abode alone prevent my settle a liberal allowance upon she.

even now I be ready to do so if she wish it--where be she?”



a look of contemptuous anger, which have overspread Miles Hardy’s face as

Lord Bellefield utter these falsehood, give place to an expression of

deep solemnity as he reply, “she be where you will be ere another

hour have pass, wretched liar that you be--go to answer for her sin

before her God!”



“dead!” exclaim Lord Bellefield, involuntarily shock into an

expression of feeling. Miles regard he attentively; have he discern

in he any symptom of real grief for her loss, any sign of true

penitence for the destruction he have work, there be that work in

the brother’s heart which might even yet have save he. but a doom

be upon the seducer, and a fresh display of his evil, sordid nature

hasten it. “poor girl!” he say; “ ’pon my word, Hardy, I’m quite

shocked at this sudden intelligence; I really be excessively fond of

she at one time--a--I mean to say, before she choose to run away from I.

however, you must not take the affair so deeply to heart: I can assure

you these thing be happen every day, and I always mean to make she

a liberal settlement; but as that be now unfortunately impossible, we

must see what can be do for you.” having deliver himself of this

heartless speech, which he consider a model of diplomacy, Lord

Bellefield pause to observe its effect upon his auditor. Miles stand

for a moment as if absorb in grief, murmur to himself, “my poor

Jane, and be it for such a thing as this you sacrifice your young

life? my poor, poor sister!” then suddenly raise his head, he say,

with a glance of the most wither scorn--



“your mean lie will prove of as little use to you as your money; I

loathe it, they, and you alike. I have tell you I bring you here to

die, and I have tell you true; but I be no assassin, and if you have the

courage of a man, you have one chance yet remain. on that table lie

six weapon, three for you and three for I; choose which you will, and

come on; only if the first fail we must try the second, and if that

do not end the matter there still remain the third. come, make your

choice.”



“well, but hear me----” begin Lord Bellefield, turn very pale.



“not a word,” be the angry answer, “instantly defend yourself. if you

refuse, I will shoot you where you stand;” so say he advance a step

towards the table.



Lord Bellefield, who have rise during the last speech, slowly follow

his example, cast, as he do so, a scrutinise look round the

apartment, and especially towards the window; the action do not escape

Hardy’s quick sight.



“your search be useless,” he say, smile contemptuously. “be you

here alone, with proper tool at hand, and know how to use they to

the good advantage, it would take you two hour to break out of this

place. if you call ever so loudly, there be no one to hear you--my

companion be half-way back to Venice by this time. you have nothing

left but to overcome I, or to die the dog’s death you deserve.”



“’tis false!” exclaim Lord Bellefield eagerly; “my friend have

succeed in trace I, and even now I hear the tread of soldier in

the passage--hark!”



with a gesture of surprise Hardy turn towards the door. this be

all Lord Bellefield require. spring forward, he seize the pistol

near to he, level it, and with the speed of thought, fire.

look round, Hardy perceive too late the snare that have be lay for

he. as he do so, a sharp, stinging pain, follow by a sensation like

the burn of a red-hot iron, pass round his left side. the ball, aim

at his heart, have strike against the handle of a clasp-knife which,

sailor-fashion, he wear sling round his neck by a string, and glance

off, enter the side and pass round one of the rib under the skin,

lodge among the muscular fibre of the shoulder-blade. furious at

the cowardly stratagem to which he have so nearly fall a victim, and

half-madden with the pain of his wound, Hardy seize the other pistol,

and shout, “die, you infernal, treacherous scoundrel!” snap it at

his adversary; but owe to the priming be damp, the pistol rusty, or

from some other unexplained cause, the cap explode without discharge

the weapon. fling it down with an oath, he snatch up the sword that

lie near to he, and exclaim, “come on, and be -------- to you!”

 scarcely give his antagonist time to follow his example, ere he attack

he furiously.



for a minute or two cut and thrust follow each other so rapidly that

all seem confusion. then as their first fury become expended, and

they fight more cautiously, Lord Bellefield perceive, to his extreme

satisfaction, that he be the well swordsman of the two, Hardy having

merely pick up the use of the cutlass on board a man-o’-war, while his

antagonist have learn fencing amongst the other military exercise of

a cavalry regiment in which, till within the last two or three year,

he have hold a commission. if, therefore, he could contrive to defend

himself till Hardy’s fury should have in some degree wear out

his strength, he trust either to disarm his adversary, or by a

well-direct thrust to rid himself of he for ever. nor be he

disappoint in this expectation; for have with some difficulty

parry a furious thrust, he catch Hardy’s sword with the blade of his

own weapon, and by a sudden turn of the wrist send it fly out of his

hand, leave his enemy defenceless and at his mercy. but mercy be a

quality for which his lordship be never famous, more especially when,

as in the present instance, its exercise might compromise his own

safety, he draw back a step to get room for his thrust, with the

intention of run his opponent through the body. with the speed

of lightning, Hardy perceive the only chance remain for he, and

unhesitatingly adopt it. snatch up one of the stilettos, he rush

upon Lord Bellefield, and receive his thrust through the fleshy part

of his left arm, close with he and bury the dagger in his heart.

utter a sound between a gasp sob and a groan, the young nobleman

stagger, raise his arm as if in the act to strike, and fall back a

corpse.



[illustration: 0508]



thus do the vengeance of the great God whom he have insult by a life

of selfish crime overtake this wicked man in the pride of his youth and

strength, and thus in the same night be the libertine and his victim

call to appear before the Judge of all the earth to answer for their

deed, whether they have do good, or whether they have do evil. for

the humble penitent we may indeed sorrow, yet not as without hope; but

for the impenitent sinner, cut off in the midst of crime, die with his

selfish heart untouched, his evil nature unregenerate, “there remaineth

no long any hope, but a fearful looking-for of judgment to come.”









CHAPTER LXV.--FAUST pay a morning visit.



Frere, on the principle of strike whilst the iron be hot, have no

soon obtain Lewis’s promise to place in his hand the arrangement

of the quarrel between Lord Bellefield and himself than he induce his

friend to write a carefully word apology for have in the heat of

passion assault his lordship on the previous evening. Lewis take the

pen, and without a murmur write as Frere dictate, his compress lip

and knitted brow alone tell of the martyrdom his proud spirit be

undergo; but his strength of will be as powerful for good as for

evil; he have resolve on the sacrifice, and cost what it might, he

_would_ make it.



“and now, what be your intention?” he inquire, as Frere, having

signify his approbation of its content, fold the note and deposit

it safely in his pocket-book. “suppose Bellefield should refuse to

accept this apology?”



“never fear,” be the confident reply, “he _must_ accept it; and to tell

you the truth, although he may bluster and give himself air when he

perceive you be not forthcoming, I expect he will only be too glad to

be quit of such an awkward customer. I don’t wish to be personal, but

depend upon it you be by no mean pleasant as an enemy; there be ‘a

lurk devil in your eye,’ as Byron say (and he ought to know about

devil, for, adopt the fall angel hypothesis, he be very like

one himself), that would try a man’s nerve rather when he find himself

stand opposite your loaded pistol at eighteen pace.”



Lewis smile faintly.



“the devil have be pretty well take out of I this time,” he say;

“henceforth I shall be essentially a man of peace.”



he pause, press his hand to his brow, and a slight shiver pass

through his frame. Frere regard he anxiously.



“what be you shiver about?” he inquire. “you don’t feel ill, do

you?”



“no, it be nothing,” be the reply. “I have, as you may easily imagine,

go through a good deal, both mentally and bodily, of late, and I be a

little overworn; but a couple of hour’ sleep will set I right again.”



“then the soon you take it the well,” rejoin Frere. “never mind

I; I shall ensconce myself in this arm-chair till the man of war,

your second, make his appearance, and sleep or read as the Fates may

incline. what time do you expect your accomplice?”



“he will be here at half-past four,” be the reply.



“and it be now just two; so turn in, and pleasant dream to you.” thus

say, Frere throw himself back in the chair, and draw a volume of

Dante out of his pocket, set to work to polish up his italian, as he

term it. Lewis rise to follow his friend’s advice, but a mist seem

to swim before his eye, his brain reel, his trembling knee refuse

to support he, and stagger forward he sink heavily to the ground

in a fainting fit. frere, much alarmed, raise he in his arm, and

carry he with some difficulty into the inner room, lay he on his

bed, and begin, with more energy than skill, to apply every conceivable

or inconceivable remedy to recover he, but with only partial success,

for although after the lapse of a few moment colour return to his

lip and pulsation to his heart, he neither speak nor appear to

recognise his friend’s voice, and after a few inarticulate murmur sink

into a dull, heavy sleep. frere cover he with the bedclothe as well

as he be able, then draw a chair to the bedside, seat himself

thereupon to watch his slumber. half-past four arrive, and with it

Major Ehrenburg, the austrian officer who have promise to act as Lewis’s

second. before he come a new idea have enter Frere’s head--it might not

be necessary to make use of the apology at all, Lewis’s sudden illness

would be a sufficient reason for his not meet his adversary.



“the amusement you have promise yourself in see my friend shoot or

be shoot you will be disappoint of, _Mein lieber Herr?_” he say with a

quiet smile, as the Austrian stare at he in surprise and twist his

moustache fiercely. “Lord Bellefield in his angry mood be no doubt a

very terrible fellow, but Lewis be about to wrestle with a more deadly

foe yet, or I be much mistaken.”



“excuse I, sir, I have no time for badinage,” return the other,

bow with haughty politeness; “_nothing_ can prevent this duel. I must

speak with the Signore Luigi himself immediately. permit I to pass.”



“oh, certainly,” reply Frere, hold open the door of the bedroom;

“but in regard to nothing be able to prevent the duel, ‘there be

more thing in heaven and earth, Horatio, than be dream of in your

philosophy.’ you will find my word to be true. see, his adversary have

lay he on his back already.”



the young soldier advance to the bedside; Lewis still sleep, but his

slumber be disturb and feverish. as the other bend over he he

turn uneasily and murmur some inarticulate sound. lay his hand

on his shoulder, Ehrenburg attempt to rouse he.



“Luigi,” he say, “it be late; they will be on the ground before we.”

 the only reply be again an inarticulate murmur; but on his repeat

his summon Lewis sit up and stare about he with a look of dull

unconsciousness, then a wild light come into his eye, and glare

furiously at the Austrian, he exclaim in a hoarse voice--



“villain, it be false! she love you not--she never love you!”



“do you not know I Luigi?” inquire Ehrenburg in a more soothing tone

of voice.



“know you, scoundrel, yes! on earth, or in the low hell, I should

know and hate you.” he pause, glance wildly round the room, then

exclaim in a voice scarcely audible through passion, “what I here in

my own house do you come to triumph over and to insult I? this be too

much.” and with a scream of fury he make a spring at the other’s throat,

which he would have succeed in grasping, probably to his severe

injury, have not Frere, who have watch he closely during the forego

scene, throw himself upon he, and with the assistance of the young

soldier, who at length begin to perceive the true state of the case,

contrive to hold he down, till, exhaust by the violence of his

struggle, he cease to resist any long.



“he must have expose himself to malaria, and the fever have attack

the brain--be it not so?” inquire Ehrenburg as soon as he have recover

breath enough to speak.



“so I fear,” be the reply. “Malaria, or macaroni, or some horrid

foreign thing or other, have bring on a violent fever, and, as you see,

he be now about as mad as a March hare (though perhaps a belief in

that popular zoological delusion may not extend to the Austrian

dominions)”--this last remark be make _sotto voce_. “and now, Mein

Herr, the soon you’re off the well, for Lord Bellefield, unless he

be much belie, be not particularly famous for patience. you’ll explain

to he why Lewis cann’t do himself the pleasure of shoot he this

morning; and you may add, with my compliment--Richard Frere’s, at

your service--that it’s well luck than he deserve. by the way,” he

continue, “if you could give one a hint how to come by such an article

as a doctor I should esteem it an additional favour.”



“I will call at the residence of an english physician as soon as I

leave this house,” be the reply; “fortunately, one who be reckon very

skilful reside within a few door.”



“that’s right,” return frere, “none of your foreign quack for I.

doctor be bad enough all the world over, I dare say; but an English

one be a degree well than any of your homoeopathic, mesmeric,

electro-biologic, clairvoyant humbugs--_Al piacer di revedervi_, Signore;

I mean, _Leben sie wohl, mein Herr_. a mustachioed, laced, and pad

young puppy!” he continue, as, with a haughty bow and a puzzle

expression of countenance, the young Austrian quit the apartment;

“cann’t he be content with cut throat himself without encourage

his neighbour to go and shoot at one another! I hate a fellow who will

be second in a duel as I hate a professional hangman. I’d half a mind

to let poor Lewis strangle he--a foreigner more or less be no great

matter.”



the physician’s opinion coincide with that of Richard Frere.

Overwrought both in mind and body, Lewis have be attack by fever

of the most virulent nature, and every resource that the science of

medicine afford appear powerless to subdue it. night and day Richard

Frere sit by the sick man’s bedside, listen with an aching heart to

his fevere raving. now, for the first time, do he become aware of the

depth and strength of that passion which, having destroy its victim’s

peace of mind, seem about to finish its work of devastation by sap

the very spring of life itself. in his delirium the idea appear to

have fix itself in Lewis’s imagination that the duel have take place,

and that Lord Bellefield have perish by his hand; and the agonised

self-reproach which his remorse force from he be painful to listen

to. occasionally he would appear to forget even this, and imagine

himself in the presence of she he love, would breathe forth expression

of the deep tenderness, when suddenly the recollection of his

suppose guilt would flash across he, and upbraid himself in the

bitter term, he would exclaim that a bar exist between they, and

declare himself a murderer accurse before God and man. and so the weary

day wear on, and the sufferer grow paler and weak, while still the

fire which be consume his young life burn fiercely as at first.



the day follow the night of Lord Bellefield’s death be a remarkable

one, for it witness the assassination of the unfortunate Marinovitch,

whose courage and strong sense of duty forbid he to desert his post,

even in order to preserve his life; this act of dastardly revenge

herald the revolt in Venice. the Palazzo Grassini be, as may be

suppose, the scene of much alarm and anxiety. General Grant and

Leicester have be foil in their attempt to trace the after

proceeding of the party who have kidnap Lord Bellefield, nor be any

light throw upon his mysterious disappearance until another night and

day have elapse, when, in consequence of a high reward offer by the

family to any person who could afford information in regard to the

affair, an individual in the garb of a gondolier seek an interview

with General Grant. this worthy (who be none other than Jacopo,

the bravo whose stiletto have so nearly prove fatal to Lewis) having

bargain for the promise reward and for a free pardon for his

own share in the transaction, confess that he and certain of his

associate have be engage by an Englishman name Hardy, with whom he

have be for some month acquaint, to seize and carry off a gentleman,

against whom Hardy, for some reason, appear to nourish a deep revenge;

that this gentleman have be stay at the Palazzo Grassini; and that

hardy having point he out to he, he (Jacopo) have watch he the

whole evening, and find he remain abroad so late, have arrange to

waylay he as he return home, and succeed in his design, though the

plan be nearly be frustrate by the unexpected absence of Hardy,

who however join they at the last moment. he then communicate those

detail of the enterprise with which the reader be already acquaint,

up to the time when he leave Hardy and Lord Bellefield together in the

ruin convent, beyond which he either be, or affect to be, ignorant

in regard to the affair. the clue thus gain be, however, sufficient.

lead by Jacopo to the room in which the duel have take place, the General

and Leicester soon find their bad fear realise. the body lie

cover with a cloak, on which be pin a paper, write by Hardy

before the duel, state his intention of force Lord Bellefield to a

mortal combat, add that when that paper be find either one or

both of they would have go to their long account; at the bottom be

scrawl in pencil--



“I have keep my word; he bring his fate upon his own head--no one have

any hand in his death but myself; he fall in fair fight, having wound

I severely, but, as I think, not mortally.--(Signed) Miles Hardy.”



all Leicester’s early affection for his brother be bring back by his

dreadful fate, and he weep over his corpse like a woman. the General

shudder slightly when his eye first perceive the expression of rage

and hatred stereotype on the rigid feature of the dead man’s face,

then his brow contract and his mouth grow stern as he turn to issue

direction for the murderer’s apprehension. whether, be Italians,

the police look upon manslaughter with a favour eye, or whether the

disturb state of the city facilitate his escape, certain it be

that Miles Hardy contrive to evade the search make for he; and after

offer large reward for his apprehension, and use every other mean

in his power to stimulate the exertion of the police, General Grant be

fain to rest satisfied that he have do all which the strict sense of

duty could command at his hand. perhaps, as the memory of the scene he

have witness by Jane Hardy’s death-bed recur to he, and he think

of the cruel provocation her brother have receive, even the stern old

soldier might be glad that he have not be call upon to condemn Miles

to an ignominious and painful death.



the feeling both of Laura and Annie, when they become acquainted with

this frightful catastrophe, may easily be imagine. from Laura it be

impossible to conceal it, for, unused to deep emotion of any kind, her

husband’s grief be for the time so overpower that he completely lose

all self-control, and it be only by the judicious exercise of her good

sense and tenderness that she be enable to restore he to anything

like composure. nor have she a much easy task with Annie, for a

superstitious but not unnatural fancy seize she that (her earnest

desire to avoid a union with Lord Bellefield having be thus fearfully

accomplish) she be in some degree morally guilty. but Laura, tender,

kind, judicious Laura, with her man’s head and her woman’s heart (a rare

alliance, constitute human perfection), argue and soothe and coax

and reason, until Annie’s self-upbraid horror yield to her gentle

persuading, as do of old the demon which torment Saul to the melody

of David’s harp: and indeed there be on earth no music sweet than a

love woman’s voice.



during all this time poor Walter find himself sadly neglect. after

the affair at the Casino, Mr. Spooner, ignorant of Lewis Arundel’s

illness, and fearful that he would keep his word and inform General

Grant of the shameful manner in which he have betray his trust, find

some plausible excuse for resign his situation and return to

England, at the General’s expense, before any exposure should take

place. so he write himself a letter announce the death of his mother

(at that moment drink brandy and water in the bar of a hotel in

Birmingham, whereof she be landlady), and leave three orphan sister

(invent for the occasion) solely dependent on he for _everything_;

which epistle answer his purpose nicely. after his departure Walter

be leave pretty much to his own device; and one of his chief amusement

be drill and talk to Faust, for whom all his old fondness have

revive since the interview in which he have make up his quarrel with

Annie. he be therefore especially annoyed and perplex by a habit

which the dog have lately acquire of absent himself every day for

several hour. various be the scheme Walter lay to discover what

become of the animal, but by some fatality they all fail to effect

their object; and the cause of the dog’s absence, as well as the mode

in which he contrive to effect his egress, still remain a mystery. at

length, one evening, as Walter be sit at a window of the Grassini

palace which look into a small courtyard or garden enclose by a high

wall, his attention be attract by observe something which in the

short glimpse he have of it appear like an animal’s head pop up above

the wall and disappear again. watch the spot carefully, Walter soon

witness a repetition of the phenomenon; but this time a rough,

hairy body and leg follow the head, and after a slight scramble the

delinquent Faust himself make his appearance at the top of the wall,

which be sufficiently broad to afford he a precarious footing: he then

deliberately, but with great caution, walk along the narrow causeway

thus afford, until he reach a spot where the limb of an old tree

grow so as nearly to touch the wall; upon this he get, and contrive,

by a mode of progression half-slip, half-clambering, to arrive at

a point whence he could easily jump to the ground. all these manouvre

Walter carefully note, and form his plan accordingly. the boy’s

curiosity--(we continue to use the term boy, for although in age and

appearance poor Walter be now almost a man, in mind he be still

far young than his year, in spite of those occasional flash

of intelligence so often to be observe in case of partial mental

imbecility, which render a just estimate of the individual capacity so

difficult to arrive at)--Walter’s curiosity be thoroughly arouse by

this discovery, and he determine if possible to find out the nature

and object of Faust’s clandestine expedition. that he have some definite

object Walter never for a moment doubt, for he have so completely make

a friend and companion of the dog, that he have learn to look upon

he much more as a reasonable being than as an animal guide only by an

enlighten instinct.



for the rest of that day, and from an early hour on the following

morning, Walter never lose sight of the dog, though he contrive to

effect his purpose without interfere with its liberty of action. at

length his patience be reward by see Faust enter the garden

and begin to scramble up the identical tree, by mean of which he have

effect his descent on the previous day. seize his hat, Walter lose

no time in follow he; the tree be easy to climb, and the same

branch which have afford a passage for Faust enable Walter to reach

the top of the wall in safety. on the other side the difficulty be

still less, for the ruin of some ancient building lie scatter in all

direction, and a pile of they actually come within a few foot of the

top of the wall, form a rough but efficient flight of step. by the

time Walter regain _terra firma_, however, Faust have proceed some

distance, and have he choose to run on might still have preserve his

secret inviolate. but when Walter call he, he stop and wait

till his friend approach, though neither threat nor endearment could

prevail upon he to turn back, or to allow Walter to come near enough to

lay hold of he. and so the pair proceed, Faust run on for a short

distance, wait till Walter draw near, and then resume his course.

the route the dog pursue avoid the more frequent way, and Walter

begin to think Faust be merely take a stroll for the benefit of

his constitution, when the animal suddenly turn down an archway, and

look back to see that his friend follow, proceed along a narrow

alley which lead into one of the small street, and stop at the door

of a house which project beyond some of the other. the door stand

ajar, and Faust without ceremony push it far open and walk in.

Walter pause, debate as well as his mental capacity enable he to

do, whether or not he should venture to follow. it be a knotty point

to decide. on the one hand his fear urge he to turn back and not

risk face the possible danger which might lie hide within this

mysterious mansion; curiosity, on the other hand, prompt he to

enter and discover at once and for ever the aim and end of Faust’s

incomprehensible visit. fear be very near gain the day, when,

in think over every motive, probable or improbable, which might

influence the dog, the bright idea flash across he that perhaps Faust

have discover his former master, and the hope of again meet his

“dear Mr. Arundel” outweigh every other consideration, he boldly

open the door, and encounter Faust, who have return to look for

he, follow that sagacious quadrupe up a flight of stair.



now it so happen that the particular morning in question be that of

the fourteenth day from the commencement of Lewis’s illness, and the

physician have pronounce the crisis of the disease to be at hand. he have

see his patient late on the previous evening, and administer to he

a powerful narcotic, from the effect of which he have not recover when

Walter and Faust commence their ramble. frere, who have sit up with he

all night, have go out to refresh himself with a short walk, leave

Lewis under the care of Antonelli, his old attendant. this worthy man

have in his turn be call down to see a friend, who having hear

of the Signore Luigi’s illness, have come to prescribe some outrageous

remedy, in the infallibility whereof his faith be as unshakable as his

ignorance on all medical subject be profound. Antonelli, whose grief

at his patron’s danger have be overpower, be easily interested in

his friend’s account of the wonderful specific; and with the garrulity

of age, he remain discuss its merit for a much long space of

time than he be at all aware of. thus it come about that Walter, when

he have follow Faust upstairs, and after a second fit of hesitation

enter an apartment through the partially open door of which the dog

have disappear, find himself in a room, in one corner of which stand

a small iron bedstead whereon lie some person, who from his deep,

regular breathing seem to be in a sound sleep. cautiously, and with

noiseless footstep, the boy approach and gaze upon the sleeper, nor,

for a moment, could he recognise, in the pale, wear face which meet

his view, the feature of his “dear Mr. Arundel.” but this doubt be

speedily resolve when Lewis move uneasily in his sleep and mutter

some indistinct word, amongst which Walter catch the name of Annie.

two clear idea now present themselves to the boy’s mind: his friend

be asleep and must not be rouse, and from the expression of his

feature he must be either ill or unhappy. having arrive at these

conclusion, he proceed to act upon they by seat himself at the

bedside, to wait patiently till Lewis should awake, while he devote all

the power of his intellect to form some theory by which to account

for the change in his late tutor’s appearance. as he thus sit anxiously

watch, Lewis again turn restlessly, murmur something, the

meaning of which Walter could not catch, then speak more distinctly,

he said--



“she lean upon his arm; she smile on he; she love he! I see it

with my own eye.”



he say this so plainly, that Walter, fancy he must be awake,

address he, and ask if he be ill. Lewis catch the sound of the

word, and replied--



“Ill in mind, Frere, nothing more.”



Walter, still believe he to be awake, continued--



“it be I--Walter; do you not know I?”



for a moment the sleep man make no reply, then resume the

conversation which he imagine himself hold with Frere, he exclaim

eagerly--



“love one man and engage herself to another! I tell you no! Annie Grant

never love I!”



at this moment Faust (who have be lie quietly, and as if he be

quite at home, on a rug by the bedside), rouse by the sound of his

master’s voice, place his fore-paw on the bed, and find himself

unnoticed, endeavour to attract attention by lick first the sick

man’s hand and then his face. the effect of the opiate have by this time

in a great measure wear off, and rouse by Faust’s intrusive affection,

Lewis awake with a violent start, and attempt to raise himself in a

sit posture, gaze around he in surprise, then fall back upon his

pillow from weakness. after lie some moment perfectly motionless, he

again unclose his eye and ask in a low, faint voice, “be I dream

still, or do I see Walter?”



“no, you be awake now, dear Mr. Arundel; it be I, Walter. Faust find

you out, and bring I to see you.”



as Walter mention Faust, Lewis for the first time perceive his old

favourite, and stretch out his hand with the intention of pat he,

but the effort be beyond his strength, and his arm sink powerless by

his side. Faust, however, perceive the attention, and acknowledge it

by again lick his hand. Lewis turn his languid eye from Walter

to the dog, and a tear steal down his waste cheek, then his lip grow

compress, and an expression of anguish overspread his countenance.

with consciousness have also return bitter memory. in the meanwhile

Walter, delight at recover his long-lose friend, grow loquacious in

the fulness of his joy, and run on in his usual disconnected manner.



“so you haven’t forget Faust, then, Mr. Arundel? he have never

forget you either, poor fellow! all the time you have be away; but

I have take great care of he, you see; he’s nice and fat, ben’t he?

we’ve be very good friend too, only we use to quarrel sometimes when

he would follow Annie, and I do not like it because--because----”

 here he pause, have a kind of confused recollection that this be a

subject on which he want to say something particular. after wait

for a minute or two his idea grow in a degree clear, and he

continued--



“you know I take a dislike to poor Annie, because I think she make you

go away. I always think so until she tell I it be not the case, and

how fond she be of you.”



when Walter first mention Annie’s name Lewis start and make a

gesture to induce he to be silent, but the boy do not understand his

wish, and his auditor soon become too much absorb in the interest of

his disclosure to seek again to interrupt he.



“you be talk about Annie just now, you know, before you be quite

awake,” resume Walter, “and you say she do not love you. I remember I

think so too once, and that that be the reason why you go away, and

so I take a dislike to she, and would not let Faust follow she, only he

would. but we be both quite wrong, for Annie be just as fond of you

as Faust and I be, and now I’ll tell you how I come to find it out.”

 he then in his ramble way give a childish but perfectly intelligible

account of his conversation with Annie Grant, with which the reader be

already acquaint. just as he have finish his recital, Richard Frere

return from his walk in time to overhear the last few word of the

history, and to discover that Lewis have faint from intense emotion.









CHAPTER LXVI.--URSA MAJOR show his tooth.



Walter’s visit to Lewis produce a more favourable effect upon the

patient’s health than do all the pill and potion wherewith his doctor

have seek to exorcise the fever-fiend. he have _not_ then deceive

himself--Annie _have_ love he; nay, from Walter’s recital, as well as

from her manner on the occasion of his protect she through the crowd

in the square of St. Mark, be he not justify in believe that she

love he still? the idea be in itself happiness, for although the fact

of she renew her engagement with Lord Bellefield so immediately after

Lewis have quit Broadhurst still remain unaccounted for, the belief

that she love he seem to impart a new aspect to the whole affair,

and for the first time he allow himself to hope that her conduct

might admit of some satisfactory explanation. the emotion of a mind so

impulsive as Lewis’s necessarily produce marked effect upon the body;

agitation of spirit have mainly conduce to bring on the fever which

have thus prostrate, he, and the hope to which Walter’s word have give

rise seem to infuse new life into he; at all event, it be certain

that from the moment in which he become convinced that Annie have love

he he begin to amend. as soon as Frere consider he strong enough to

bear such an announcement, he inform he of the appalling fate which

have overtake his enemy. Lewis be at first strongly affected. but for

event over which he have have no control he might now have be in the

position of Miles Hardy, a wanderer on the face of the earth, bear

with he the harrowing consciousness that the blood of a fellow-creature

be upon his hand. after remain in silent thought for some minute

he suddenly raise his eye to his friend’s countenance.



“frere,” he say, “how can I ever be sufficiently grateful to God, who

choose you as his instrument to set my sin before I, and bring I to

a well frame of mind! have this dreadful fate overtake Bellefield

without my having resolve not to fight he, I should have feel morally

guilty of his death, consider that it be mere accident which have

enable Hardy to meet he soon than myself.”



“you act rightly, under circumstance which I must confess to have

afford about as severe a trial to a man of your impetuous nature as

could well be conceive,” return frere; “so it be but fair that you

should reap some advantage from your self-conquest. I pity poor young

hardy more than I blame he, for he have probably never be teach the

truth of Christianity, and nothing else could have possess sufficient

power over he to induce he to forego his revenge. ah! if such man as

Bellefield could but be make to see the mental agony their vice cause

to other, even their selfish heart would be touch, and they would

be unable to go on sin with such callous indifference; but in their

selfishness they look merely to the gratification of their own passion,

and ignore all possible result which might tend to interfere with they.

such a career as Bellefield’s be a fearful and inexplicable mystery to

reflect upon, and it be only by a high exercise of faith that we can

believe even Omnipotence able to bring good out of such consistent and

unmitigated wickedness.”



“and be such your belief?” inquire Lewis earnestly.



“most assuredly it be,” be the reply. “I be not one of those who

acknowledge God’s attribute with my tongue but in my heart practically

deny; nor can I believe that a being, the perfection of wisdom, of

justice, and of mercy, could allow evil to exist, be he not able to

overrule it to good. but if you ask I, ‘how can these thing be?’ I

tell you at once I do not know; I form no theory on the subject, for I

have no power to do so; my mind be that of a weak, fallen man, and the

secret thing of God be so immeasurably above it that to speculate upon

they be equally presumptuous and absurd. still I feel as certain of the

main fact as if each special detail of the Divine scheme lie spread out

like a map before I, because, be it not so, God would falsify his

attribute; the great be we worship would be, not a merciful Father,

but a stern, inexorable judge. depend upon it, Lewis, the real fallacy

in the religious teaching of the present day be that, practically if

not theoretically, fear rather than love be inculcate as the actuate

principle, and, as a natural consequence, man ignore and put aside

thought of futurity as they put aside any other painful and alarming

reflection.”



as Frere conclude Lewis pause in thought, then observed--



“all you have say sound wise and true, and yet there appear a

contradiction somewhere. evil must always be hateful to God, and as such

must deserve everlasting punishment. I cannot understand it.”



“nor do I wish or expect you to do so,” reply Frere; “but cannot you

wait patiently through a little space--the life of one man--trust

that when this mortal shall have put on immortality our enlarged

faculty may enable we to see clearly that which we now believe as

a matter of faith? the only difficulty arise from your attempt to

measure thing infinite with your finite intelligence; for instance, you

talk of everlasting punishment--what do you mean by the term?”



“mean, why, of course, punishment that shall endure throughout

eternity,” reply Lewis.



“and eternity, which to be eternal can no more have have a beginning

than it shall have an end, be an idea our mind cannot grasp; and

in attempt to define and realise these thing we only confuse and

mislead ourselves. take my word for it, Lewis, true religion, the

religion Christ come down from heaven to teach man, consist in a

sincere, earnest, and consistent belief in the goodness and benevolence

of the Creator, carry out practically by an unceasing endeavour to

reform our fall nature after his image.”



“and how be we to gain the knowledge and the strength requisite to

enable we to do this?” ask Lewis.



“by study God’s write word with an honest intention of do as

we be there tell to do, at the same time implore his assistance to

enable we to carry out our good intention,” be the earnest reply.



so the conversation end; but Lewis think over the idea thus

present to he, which, though not entirely new to he, or indeed to

any other reflect mind, have perhaps never before occur in a light

so clear and practical as that in which Frere have place they; and as

by slow degree his strength begin to return, and with Antonelli’s

assistance he contrive to creep for an hour at a time to his

painting-room, he arise from that couch of sickness a wise and a well

man.



as soon as Charles Leicester have recover from the first shock of his

brother’s death he determine to entrust his wife and child to the care

of General Grant, while he start for England to break the distressing

intelligence to his father. Lord Ashford be now become an old man,

and although the profligate career of his eld son have cause he the

deep anxiety and regret, he still regard he with much affection;

and Leicester have only too good reason to dread the effect which might

be produce upon he if, by any accident, he be to become aware of the

fatal event without sufficient preparation. accordingly, on the second

day after the discovery of the catastrophe, he quit Venice, and

travel day and night till he reach England; but fast as he

journey, the evil tiding journey still more swiftly: a rumour of

the truth have somehow find its way to the London club; at one to

which he belong Lord Ashford have accidentally overhear the affair

discuss, and while utter a half-frantic inquiry in regard to the

speaker’s authority, be seize with a fit, from which he recover only

to remain a heart-break man, paralysed and childish. Charles find

he in this deplorable state, be of course unable to leave he, and

write to Laura to beg that no unnecessary delay might occur to prevent

she join he as soon as possible. under these circumstance, General

Grant resolve to proceed to England at once, with the party under his

charge.



when Frere’s anxiety for Lewis’s life have end, and he feel satisfied

that he be on the road towards recovery, and might safely be entrust

to the care of Antonelli, he have make his way to the Palazzo Grassini,

and seek an interview with General Grant, have explain to he the

object which have bring he to Venice, together with the train of

event which have hitherto prevent his announce his arrival. he also

give an account of the _fraca_ between Lord Belle-field and Lewis at

the Casino, and his friend’s subsequent self-conquest, in resolve for

conscience’ sake to forego his revenge; but he say nothing of Lewis’s

attachment to Annie, feel that he have no right to betray his

confidence to the General without obtain his consent to the measure.



General Grant be much interested by this recital, and highly extoll

Lewis’s conduct throughout the whole affair, the shock of Lord

Bellefield’s death having take away any little prejudice in favour

of duelling which might have linger in the chivalrous mind of the old

soldier. he think, however, that consider the relative position of

the different party, it would be well for he not to visit Lewis so

soon after the awful catastrophe which have take place, but he send he

a kind message by Frere, say he should hope to see he on his return

to England, and thank he for his interference in Walter’s behalf.



on the morning previous to that fix for the departure of Laura and her

friend, Lewis, having over-exert himself the day before by paint

for several hour, and having pay the penalty by lie awake during

great part of the night, have fall into a deep sleep, which last so

long, that frere, having breakfast and give order that Lewis be on

no account to be disturb, go out. he have undertake, with his usual

good nature, innumerable commission for the General; these he set to

work diligently to execute, and after wander up and down the lane

and square of Venice, now trudge like an excited postman, now sit

bolt upright in the stern of a gondola, with _the_ cotton umbrella

spread like a gigantic mushroom over his head to keep off the sun, he

arrive, hot and tired, at the Palazzo Grassini. General Grant be from

home, so Frere leave a card, say he would call later in the afternoon;

then, consider on second thought that it would not be kind, as he

have be out so long, to leave Lewis again on the same day, he alter

his determination, and desire to be show into the library, send a

message to ask to be allow to speak to Mrs. Leicester, or to Miss

Grant. now the servant to whom this message be entrust, be,

like many of his better, averse to needless trouble, and chance

to encounter Annie as he be proceed from the library to the

drawing-room, see fit slightly to alter the tenor of his message, and

leave out all mention of Laura, inform Miss Grant that a gentleman

of the name of Frere, having call to visit the General, have, on

learn that he be from home, ask to be allow to see she. this

intelligence rather flurried Annie, Frere be always connect in

her mind with the idea of Lewis, and it be not without a degree of

trepidation, which mantle her cheek with a most become blush, that

she hasten to comply with his summon.



when Frere perceive who it be that his message have produce, a scheme,

which have suggest itself to he as a vague possibility, as he have sit

by Lewis’s bedside listen to the raving of his delirium, recur

to his mind, as a right and advisable step which it behove he to

take, now that chance have throw the opportunity in his way; his first

business, however, be to deliver himself of the commission entrust

to he by the General. having relieve his mind of the weight of this

responsibility, he began--



“well, Miss Grant, I’m glad to see you look well than you be. I

suppose it’s the”--(having get rid of your detestable engagement be his

original sentence, but he check himself, and substituted)--“idea of

get away from this horrid place, all puddle and palace; the man

every one of they either a tyrant or a slave, and such lazy rascal into

the bargain; the woman, not at all the style of female to talk to you

about; and without any particular beauty to account for it either, as

far as I’m a judge, though perhaps in my present position I’m a little

bit over fastidious; but then Rose Arundel be as near perfection as

anything on this earth can be--however, I’m forget you don’t know

anything of the matter, and all that I’m say must be high Dutch, or

thereabout, to you.”



and have by this time talk himself into a regular entanglement, the

worthy bear come to a sudden and unexpected standstill. Annie hasten

to relieve he.



“you have, indeed, let I into a secret, Mr. Frere,” she say, smile;

“but it be quite safe in my hand, and it be a secret, moreover, which

I be delighted to hear: there be no one in whose happiness I take deep

interest than in that of dear Rose Arundel, and I quite approve of the

step you hint at as be likely to secure it. you must allow I to

offer you my warm congratulation.”



“thank ye, thank ye,” return frere, look most comically bashful,

and route his hair about insanely in his embarrassment, “I certainly

do hope to make she happy, God bless she; though I don’t think you can

judge much about it one way or other, see that I may be a Bear in

reality (she call I one in fun, you know), mean to eat she up

bodily for aught you can tell. as to its be much of a secret, too

many people know it, too many woman in particular, to render that

possible; so, though I don’t want it announce in the _Times_ till the

event actually come off, you need not put any violent constraint

upon your natural communicativeness, for I be not so ignorant of

the idiosyncrasy of the fair sex as to forget the pain and grief

constrain silence occasion they.”



Annie make a playful rejoinder, and then, after a minute’s pause,

venture timidly to ask, “I hope Mr. Arundel continue to gain strength.

I--that be my father--and indeed all of we be so grieve to hear of

his illness!”



Frere fix his large eye upon she as he reply gruffly, “yes, he’s

get on well enough for anything I know to the contrary; but he’s as

weak as a child. it will be month before he become anything like the

man he be; he’s be unpleasantly near supply a vacancy in some

moist graveyard of this amphibious city; small thank to those who

help to bring he to such a condition.”



Annie turn very pale at this somewhat unfeele speech, but she

manage to stammer out, “I think, that is, we be tell that it be

a fever, produce by exposure to malaria, from which Mr. Arundel have

suffer.”



“a fever it be, and no mistake,” be the reply; “such a fever as I

should be very sorry to fall in the way of catch, I can tell you.”



“and yet you have nurse he through it with the most unceasing

self-devotion. you see I know you well than you be aware of, Mr.

Frere,” interrupt Annie with a beam smile.



“nurse he! why, of course I do; if I haven’t, I should have deserve

to be well kick,” return frere in a tone of intense disgust. “I’ve

know Lewis ever since he be a pretty black-eyed boy of ten year old,

and though he be a little hot-headed and impetuous sometimes, that’s no

reason why I should leave he to die of a fever in a foreign land, far

away from those that care about he. a nice sort of friend I should

be if I do, and a pretty figure I should cut the next time I come in

Rose’s way! she be not one of those who love people by half, I can

tell you; why, she actually dote on her brother.”



“oh, I be sure she do; it be that which first make I love she,”

 exclaim Annie with enthusiasm; then see all that her speech

involve, she blush “celestial rosy red” and cast down her eye in

confusion.



“Humph!” grunt Frere, “that sound all very nice and amiable, but

I prefer deed to word! I’ll tell you what it be, Miss Grant,” he

continue, turn suddenly upon Annie, “you talk about malaria be

the exciting cause of Lewis’s illness, it be no such thing--the cause

of his fever be anguish of mind--the poor boy’s be miserable for the

last two year, almost crazy with grief, as I take it, for he have be

do all sort of wild, unreasonable thing; and if the truth must be

tell, it strike I it’s more your fault than any one else’s.”



“my fault!” exclaim Annie, her face and neck flush crimson at this

unexpected charge. “oh, Mr. Frere, how can you speak such cruel word?”



“because they happen to be true one, young lady,” return Frere

sternly. “you be the daughter of a rich man, and a man in a high

station, and for that reason it’s very seldom you have the plain, honest

truth speak to you; but you shall learn it to-day from my lip, if

you never hear it before in your life, and if it be not palatable, the

fault do not rest with I. I know something of this same affair when

Lewis quit Broadhurst all in a hurry, two year ago, and I set it

down as a foolish bit of boyish romance, which a few month’ absence

would cure; but it be not till I watch by his bedside, and listen

through the solemn hour of the night to his frenzied raving, that I

become aware the passion he feel for you be root in his very heart’s

core, and see that by his deep, his overpowering love for one who I fear

be not worthy of he, he have shipwreck the happiness of a lifetime.

silence!” he continue angrily, as Annie, half rise from her seat,

seem about to interrupt he, “silence! you have voluntarily, or

involuntarily, be the cause of deep misery to the two person (for

Rose have suffer greatly on her brother’s account) for whom I care most

in the world, and you shall learn before we part the evil consequence

of your act, and tell I whether you possess either the will or the

power to repair they.”



Annie again attempt to speak, but find her accuser would not listen

to she, sink back with a gesture of despair, while Frere continued--



“very early in his residence at Broadhurst, Lewis, as I imagine, become

attach to you, though for a long time he would not acknowledge

the fact even to himself: at length, however, self-deception become

impossible; then begin the struggle between his pride and his affection;

and from that period to the hour in which he quit Broadhurst he live

in a state of mental torture. well, you could not help his fall

in love with you, you will say; and because a poor tutor be bold and

foolish enough to forget the difference of position between you (which,

by the way, he never do for one moment, though the recollection be

agony to his proud spirit), and to raise his eye to his employer’s

daughter, you be not bind to forget it also--I grant you that--but

shall I tell you what you could have help? (which I should never have

know anything about but for poor Lewis’s delirious ravings)--you could

have help say and do a hundred little nameless thing, trifle

in themselves perhaps (so be straw, but they show which way the wind

blow!), thing which give the poor fellow the idea that you return

his affection, and that have he dare to declare his feeling, he might

have obtain such a confession from you; an attempt which he be far

too honourable to make, but rather, with an aching heart, tear himself

away from Broadhurst, throw up every prospect he then have in life:

you might have help this, Miss Annie Grant, and if you have be worthy

of the love of such a noble nature you would have do so.”



as Frere, completely carry away by the excited feeling which his

recapitulation of Lewis’s wrong and suffering have arouse, pause for

breath, poor Annie, who during the latter portion of his harangue have

be utterly unable to restrain her tear, reply in a voice scarcely

audible through emotion--



“you cruelly misjudge I, Mr. Frere--most cruelly--and be make

an unkind and ungenerous use of knowledge which, if your friend have

retain his reason, would never have be in your possession.”



Frere feel the justice of this reproach, and moreover the sight of poor

Annie’s tear appeal to his kindness of heart, and serve to disarm

his wrath.



“well, that be certainly true,” he say, “and if I have indeed misjudge

you, why I can only say I be very sorry for it; at all event I need

not have speak so harshly and rudely to you; but you see, Miss Grant,

I feel very deeply about this matter, and the idea that all which Lewis

have suffer have be the consequence of your love of admiration and

idle coquetry make I angry with you.”



“indeed, indeed, I be no coquette,” murmur poor Annie.



“well, you seem to have behave like one, at all event,” return

Frere; “unless, indeed,” he continue, as a new light suddenly break in

upon him--“unless, indeed, you really do by any chance care about Lewis

as much as he care about you--of course in that event you would be more

to be pity than blame.” he pause, then after a moment’s reflection,

continue, “but no, that cannot be either; if you have really love

Lewis, you would scarcely have engage yourself to another man before

he have be out of the house four-and-twenty hour. what do you say to

that? eh, young lady!”



Poor Annie! heavily indeed do her fault press upon she; most bitterly

do she repent the weakness of character which have prevent she from

refuse to engage her hand when her heart go not with it. what could

she say? why, she could only sob like an unhappy child, and whisper in a

broken voice--



“I will send Laura to you--ask she, she know all--she can tell you.”



and so run out of the room, she throw herself upon her friend’s

neck, and beg she, incoherently and vaguely, to “go immediately to

_he_ and explain _everything_;” with which request Laura, when she

have provide the solitary pronoun with a chaperon in the shape of a

concordant noun, and restrict the transcendental “everything” to mean

the one thing needful in that particular case, hasten to comply.



the commission be rather a delicate one, and the excellent Bear do not

render the execution thereof the less difficult by choose to take

a hard-headed, moral, and common-sense view of Annie’s conduct, which

confuse Laura to such a degree, that in her desire to be particularly

lucid, she contrive to entangle the matter so thoroughly that a person

with great tact and more delicate perception than the rough and

straightforward Frere might have find the affair puzzle.



“well, I tell you what it be, Mrs. Leicester,” he at last exclaim

abruptly, “if you be to talk to I till midnight, which, see you’ve

a long journey before you to-morrow, would be equally fatigue and

injudicious, you would never be able to convince I that your young

friend act wisely. the idea of accept that unhappy man (whose

death, between ourselves, be a gain to everybody but himself, though,

of course, I shall not say so to poor Charles, who in his amiability

contrive to keep up a sort of affection for his brother); but the

notion of accept he to prevent anybody guess she be in love

with Lewis seem to I about the most feeble-minded expedient that ever

occur to the imagination, even of a woman; it’s like cut one’s

throat to cure a sore finger. I don’t admire the principle of judge

action by their result, or I should say the result of this have be

just what I should have expect--viz., to make everybody miserable.

however, though she have do a foolish thing, that be very different

from do a deliberately wicked one. well, I suppose we must not be too

hard upon she, poor little thing; I dare say Lewis, at all event, will

be magnanimous enough to overlook it, in consideration of her correct

taste in properly appreciate his good quality; however, I’ll do my

good to explain the matter to he, and put it in as favourable a light

as my conscience will allow I. and so wish you a good journey, I’ll

be off. I have a notion it willn’t be very long before Lewis and I shall

follow you; we shall not be many hour in England before we beat up your

quarter, depend upon it. Lewis will have some strange revelation to

make to Governor Grant that will cause his venerable lock to stand

on end in amazement. ah! it’s a queer world. well, good-bye, Mrs.

Leicester: I expect you and I should become good friend in time, though

you’re quite mistaken if you fancy that young woman act sensibly in

accept her scampish cousin, when all the time she be in love with

another man.”



and thus Richard Frere fairly talk himself out of the house, leave

Laura especially astonish at his _brusquerie_, and decidedly of

opinion that she have mismanage the affair and do her friend’s cause

irreparable injury.









CHAPTER LXVII.--RELATES HOW, the eclipse be over, the SUN begin to

shine again.



in the meantime, Lewis having awake from his long sleep, and find

himself all the well and strong for his nap, have just breakfast

with much appetite when Antonelli appear and hand he a note. it be

from Laura (write before her interview with Frere), inform he of

their intend departure on the morrow, beg he to call upon she

immediately he return to England, which, as soon as his health would

permit, she advise he to do without loss of time, and wind up with

a hint that, in regard to the matter which especially interested he,

he might make himself quite easy, for that everything could be most

satisfactorily explain.



Lewis read and re-read the note. “the matter that especially interested

him!”--that could have but one meaning. oh, yes I Annie have clear

herself--she have never accept Lord Bellefield; or, if she have, she have

be cheat into do so. Annie be good and true--the Annie of his

imagination--the bright, fair, loving, gentle be his soul worship!

but he must have certainty--he must not again be the dupe of his own

wish; no, he must have certainty, and he must have it at once. wait

till his return to England? why, that might be day, week hence! and

be he all that time to suffer the torture of suspense? it be not

to be think of. he must see Laura before her departure and learn the

truth. but this would necessitate a visit to the Palazzo Grassini, in

which he must run the chance of encounter the General or Annie. and

as his thought revert to she, the idea for the first time occur

to he of the mental suffering she must have undergo if, as he now

believe, she have indeed truly love he, and be in some unaccountable

manner force by circumstance to consent to the engagement with her

cousin. then he remember the scene in the Square of St. Mark, and a

sense of the cruelty of his own conduct towards her overwhelmed he.

this decide the question. he would at all risk see Laura; and if--as

he now do not for a moment doubt--her explanation prove satisfactory,

he would entreat she to obtain Annie’s forgiveness. she _must_ forgive

he when she come to know all he have suffer--when she hear how ill

he have be: and as he think of his illness the somewhat perplexing

question occur to he how he be to reach the Palazzo Grassini in his

present weak state? never mind; where there be a will there be a way.

he _would_ do it, he be determine; and so he summon Antonelli, and

to the alarm of that worthy man, who fancy the fever have again fly

to the brain, and that his beloved master be delirious, announce

that he be go out to pay a visit, and request his assistance in

dress himself.



it be not till his toilet be complete and he attempt to walk

downstairs that he become aware how weak and helpless his illness

have leave he, and it require all his resolution to persevere in his

expedition. luckily the distance be short, and he be enable to

perform some part of it in a gondola; still, by the time he reach the

Palazzo Grassini his strength be so completely exhausted that if he

have be require to proceed a hundred yard far he would have be

unable to accomplish the task. having inquire if Mrs. Leicester be at

home and receive an answer in the affirmative, he continued--



“then show I up to her boudoir unannounced; I will hold you blameless

for do so.”



the servant, who know how intimate Lewis have be there before the

come of the Grant party, and how his visit have cease with their

arrival, naturally enough conjecture that the young painter be for

some reason desirous to avoid encounter any of the General’s family,

and comply with his request unhesitatingly. but the domestic in

question, who chance to be the same individual who have admit frere,

be not aware of the additional and, to the party concern, somewhat

important fact, that since he have perform that service Miss Grant

and his mistress have change place, and that at the moment he be

conduct Lewis to the boudoir that apartment be tenant by Annie

Grant, while Laura be engage in solemn conclave with Richard Frere

in the library. thus it fall out that when the door of the boudoir be

noiselessly open, Annie Grant, who have remain there after she have

despatch Laura on her difficult mission to Ursa Major, and _more

majorum_, from the time of Niobe downward, have indulge her feeling

with a hearty cry, be wipe her eye and try to make herself

believe that her trouble must be “work to an end,” and that dim

on the horizon of her future fate there might be discern a good time

come. Annie thus ponder, and thus engage, see a tall, bend

figure enter, in whose well-know feature, their expression soften

and spiritualise by severe illness, she need no announcement to

recognise Lewis Arundel.



the window of Laura’s boudoir be shade from the burn ray of an

italian sun by (literally) venetian blind, which keep out not only the

heat, but in great measure the light also; and Lewis, whose eye be

dizzy and his head swim from weakness, perceive a female figure

advance towards he, naturally conjecture it to be Laura, and

accost she as follows--



“you be no doubt surprised to see I here, but after peruse your note

I could not rest till I have learn the truth from your own lip, and

as you be to quit Venice to-morrow, there be no time to lose; so I

resolve, _coûte qui coûte_, to make the effort, and here I be.”



he pause for a reply, but obtain none, look up in surprise, and

perceive Annie Grant standing pale and tremble before he. completely

overcome by this unexpected encounter, he contrive to stammer out--



“I beg pardon, I believe I be address Mrs. Leicester. I must go and

seek she,” and turn to put his design into execution; but his strength

be unequal to the task, and lean against a marble slab, he remain

motionless, utterly unable to proceed. for a moment Annie pause as if

thunder-stricken, then her woman’s heart awake within she, and in an

instant she be by his side, bring a chair for he to sit down.



“oh, Mr. Arundel, how wrong, how mad of you to venture out,” she

exclaim, her anxiety for he overpower every other feeling; “you

will bring on a return of the fever. why, you be so weak that you can

scarcely stand; pray sit down.”



advance a step, Lewis take the chair from she, and lean on the back

for support, say with a faint smile--



“I have indeed somewhat miscalculate my strength, Miss Grant; I be

very, very weak,” and as he speak he sink upon the seat, while the

bright flush, which the excitement of behold Annie have call into

his cheek, fade to the most deathlike paleness: his companion become

alarmed.



“you be faint,” she say; “let I ring for assistance.”



a tray, with a decanter of water and some glass, stand upon a table

near; Lewis’s eye fall upon they.



“it be merely the unaccustomed exertion,” he say feebly, “it will pass

away in a moment.”



Annie catch the direction of his glance. “you would like a glass of

water,” she exclaim, “let I give you one;” and suit the action to

the word, she fill a glass with the sparkle liquid and hand it to

he. he take it with a slight inclination of the head, drink it eagerly,

and be about to rise, in order to put down the glass, when Annie, by

a deprecating gesture, prevent he, and take it from his trembling

finger replace it on the table. as she turn from do so, their

eye meet, and she perceive that his be fix on her feature with

a deep, earnest, scrutinise gaze, as though he strove to read in her

countenance the history of her inner life. for a moment she meet his

gaze with a bright, truthful, unshrinke look; then, unable to bear the

power of his eagle eye, she turn away with a blush and a smile, half

tender, half reproachful, for Annie be no stoic, and every feeling of

her heart reveal itself in her tell-tale countenance. Lewis could bear

it no long--speak he must.



“Miss Grant--Annie,” he say, and as he pronounce her christian name

his deep voice tremble with suppress emotion, “when I come here

to-day I have no thought of see you; but accident (if, indeed, in this

strange, complicated life anything may be so consider) have determine

it otherwise, and the opportunity shall not be lose. not very many day

since I be so grievously ill that the chance be strongly against my

rallying; it have please God to spare my life a little long; but such

an escape as this give rise to deep and solemn thought. while I lay

upon the bed of sickness, which have so nearly prove the bed of death,

I learn to read my own heart--my past life glide as it be in review

before I, and my fault and error, no long hide by the mist of

self-deceit or of passion, reveal themselves clearly in the light of

an awakened conscience: above they all stand forth in its evil beauty

the master-demon pride, and I see how it have embitter my whole

existence, and how, if ever I hope to obtain even peace of mind, much

more happiness, I must relax no effort until I should subdue it. Annie,

I have love you long; you cannot, _do_ not doubt it; but because I

deem you rich than I be, and of high rank, I be too proud to

own it to you. year of mental torture have be my punishment: I do not

complain that this should have be so--I do not impugn the justice of

the decree; on the contrary, I acknowledge it with deep contrition. I

sin, and it be fitting I should pay the penalty, however bitter;

but there be a grief I be not prepare for, and in which I could not

discern retributive justice; for whatever a slanderous world may say,

my love for you have be deep, pure, and disintereste, the true, most

earnest feeling of my inmost soul. Annie, I will be frank with you, and

even if my presumption ruin my cause, I have suffer too much from

concealment not to tell you the whole truth. when, distract by my

hopeless passion for you, and madden by the insult of one who be now

no more, I tear myself away from Broadhurst, and leave you, as I deem,

for ever, the most bitter pang proceed from a secret belief, which

even despair could not banish, that I read in your soft glance

assurance that have I dare to urge my suit, I might have learn I have

not love in vain; and in the midst of my desolation I be happy, deeply

happy, in the thought. then a ray of light break in upon the darkness--a

strange chain of event lead to the discovery that I be heir to an

ancient and honourable name and an ample fortune, and I wait but to

obtain legal evidence of the fact, ere I hasten to tell you of my

affection, in the fond hope of elicit that I be belove again: once

assure of that, I determine that _nothing_ should prevent my winning

your hand--all obstacle must yield before such a love as mine.

with these feeling burn in my breast, imagine the dismay which

overwhelm I on learn by a letter from your father that scarcely

twenty-four hour after I have quit Broadhurst, you, of your own free

will, have renew your engagement with your cousin. hear I out,” he

continue, as Annie, who with blushing cheek and tearful eye, have

remain as though spell-bind, drink in his every tone, attempt

eagerly to interrupt him--“hear I out, and then if you can explain

this mystery, the devotion of a life-time shall plead forgiveness for my

having misjudge you. how I live through the wretchedness that letter

cause I, I do not know. I believe I be go mad, for a time I _be_

mad, and rail at Heaven for having create a be so fair and false

as then I deem you. oh! the misery, the heavy, crush grief, when

the heart adore, with all its faculty of love, one whom the reason

point out as light, fickle, and all unworthy to have call forth such

true affection. for two year this black veil of doubt and mistrust hung

between your image and my spirit--I cast from I any idea of claim

the rank and rich that be my birthright, for I value they only as

they could bring I near to you; and go forth a wanderer, torment

by the consciousness, doubly humiliating to one of my proud nature,

that although I believe you unworthy of my affection, I still love you

devotedly as ever. the first person who win I from my gloomy thought,

and lead I to hope your conduct might be satisfactorily explain, be

your kind friend Laura, who in her honest singleness of heart could not

believe in the possibility of the fickleness of which I imagine you.

guilty--and I (though her argument fail to convince my reason), how I

love she for her unbelief! I could say much more--could tell you of

the agony of mind I endure, when unseen by you I watch you lean on

_his_ arm and smile upon he, and deem my bad fear realise, and

that you love he; but it be needless--Annie, I cannot look on you and

believe you false; if indeed you ever love I, I _know_ that, despite

appearance, you have be true to that affection, and that you love I

still. Annie, dearest, tell I that it be so?”



he cease, and with his hand clasp, as those of some votary adore

his saint, sit gaze on the April of smile and tear that play over

the expressive feature of she he love, until read in her tender

glance the secret her lip refuse to speak, happiness lend he

strength, and spring to her side, he draw she unresistingly towards

he, and reprove the coral lip for their silence by seal his

forgiveness upon they with a love kiss. and as Annie, albeit there be

no reason to doubt that she be an exceedingly moral and well-conduct

young lady, do not appear to discern any great impropriety in this act,

but, on the contrary, disengage herself from his embrace gently and

tenderly, the probability be, look at the matter in a correct

light, and with an artist eye (an optical delusion, popularly suppose

to fulfil one of the main duty of charity by clothing the naked), that

the view she take of the affair be a right one. and then by degree,

having declare that it be impossible she could ever tell he anything

about it, but that Laura know--would not he go and ask Laura at once?

(a proposition Lewis coolly but decidedly reject), she contrive,

she never know how, to enable he to guess the truth, which he do very

quickly and cleverly, and find so perfectly satisfactory that his anger

(such mild anger!) instantly change to the most unmitigated pity, an

emotion so nearly akin to that other Christian virtue, love, that we

fear we shall lay ourselves open to the charge of write an actual

love scene if we pursue the subject any far. and as it be a

well-ascertain fact that young person strictly bring up and never

allow to inflame their imagination and gain pervert view of life

by peruse those invention of the enemy of man- (and woman-) kind,

work of fiction, either never fall in love at all or do so accord to

parental act of parliament, pass in the year one of the reign of

good king Mammon, we (lest we incur the high displeasure of any of this

monarch’s respectable subject) will say no more about it. but when

Laura, grieve at what she consider the unsatisfactory issue of she

interview with Richard Frere, return to her boudoir to make the

good report her conscience would allow of to Annie, she be especially

surprised, and a little frightened, to discover her friend, with

heighten colour, downcast eye, and a bright smile play about the

corner of her mouth, sit on a sofa by the side of what Laura would

have take for the ghost of Lewis Arundel, only that ghost do not in

a general way look intensely happy, and be not usually addict to

hold young lady’ hand caressingly between their spectral finger.

however, the ghost soon vindicate his claim to the protection of the

Habeas Corpus Act by rise and shake Laura’s hand cordially, and

take the initiative in conversation by exclaiming--



“my dear, kind Mrs. Leicester, I owe all my happiness to you.” then

Laura begin to surmise what have happen, and in the excess of her joy

scold Lewis so vigorously for his madness in venture out, and Annie

for her folly in allow he to talk, that she be force to stop in

the midst of her harangue to declare herself a virago, and to laugh

so heartily at her own vehemence that in order to save herself from

become hysterical she be fain to betake herself to her own bedroom

and indulge in the feminine luxury of a good cry. and then Lewis and

Annie sit and look into each other’s eye; their joy be too full for

word, but such silence as theirs be far more eloquent, for as there

be a grief too deep for tear, so be there happiness which language be

powerless to express, and such happiness do they experience at that

moment. at length Lewis speak.



“Dearest,” he say, in a low, soft voice that tremble with the

tenderness which fill his soul, “I must leave you now; there be many

reason which forbid my meeting your father till we reach England and

I be prepared to _prove_ to he all that your trustful, love heart

believe because I tell you that it be so. until we meet in our own

happy country, which for the future will be as dear to I for your sake

as lately it have be for the same cause hateful, our engagement must

remain a secret from all but Laura.”



“but will that be right?” plead Annie, look up wistfully into the

face of he who would be from thenceforth her oracle.



it be a fearful responsibility when, through the affection, we gain

such a hold over a live soul that the judgment lie dormant, and

the thing which seem good in our eye appear so in theirs also; such

influence be indeed a mighty talent commit to our charge, and most

careful should we be lest we abuse the trust repose in we. Lewis feel

this strongly, and pause to reconsider his decision. his chief reason

for wish that General Grant might not be immediately inform of

his declaration be the difficult position in which it would place that

gallant officer in regard to Lord Bellefield’s relation. how could he,

for instance, expect Lord Ashford to believe that his brother-in-law have

use all possible exertion to secure the murderer of his son when Annie

Grant, that son’s destine bride, be affiance to a man who, but for

the catastrophe which have take place, would have meet Lord Bellefield in

a duel? the altercation and subsequent challenge be so completely a

matter of notoriety in Venice that it be certain that some account of

they, probably an exaggerated and distort one, would find its way

to England. but this be a reason which he could not give Annie, as he

correctly imagine that the affair at the casino have be keep from her

knowledge. thus the more he reflect the more certain he become that

his original determination be a right one. accordingly he replied--



“trust I, dear one; concealment be as foreign to my nature as to your

own. my fault (and I have only too many) do not lie in that direction;

but, to the good of my judgment, I believe that in wish your father

should, for the present, remain ignorant of our engagement, I be

consult your interest and his quite as much as my own. believe I,

love, I would sacrifice anything, even the cherished hope of one day

call you my own, rather than influence you to do aught for which your

conscience could afterwards upbraid you.”



and Annie do believe he, with the strong, unhesitate faith of

perfect love. have he advance the most incredible assertion--declare,

for instance, that he have discover perpetual motion, square the

circle, and set the Thames on fire, Annie would equally and implicitly

have believe he. have he deceive she, her only refuge from a universal

scepticism would have be to die. then come the “sweet sorrow” of a

lover’ parting--sweet in the many evidence of affection which the

occasion call forth, and sorrowful by reason of the anxious thought

to which quit those we love, even under the happy auspex,

necessarily give rise. Annie’s bright eye be dim with tear, and

Lewis’s mouth, no long sternly compress, tremble with the emotion

he in vain attempt to conceal, as, with a murmured “God bless and

protect you, my own darling!” he tear himself away.



in the meanwhile, scarcely have Richard Frere quit the Grassini Palace

than he encounter General Grant, fret and fume under the weight

of a burden of minor misery, and full of complaint of the abominable

misdemeanour of the venetian official, amongst which, by no mean the

light, be the culpable stupidity which prevent they from speak

or understand English, together with the obstinate prejudice with

which they refuse to acknowledge that by add the letter o to the

termination of word in that language they immediately become Italian--



“I say ‘_requiro uno passporto_’ to they, sir, half-a-dozen time over,

and nobody shall ever make I believe they do not know what _that_

mean!” be his indignant complaint.



of course Frere’s ready sympathy entail on he a request that if he

could spare the time to go back to the office with he, the General

would esteem it such a great favour, and of course, though his

conscience reproach he for be away from “poor, solitary. Lewis”

 for so many hour, he do what be require of he; and of course,

having say A,--B, C, and D follow as a matter of necessity, until,

before he have go through the alphabet of the General’s commission,

several hour have elapse, and Lewis, having find his way back to

his lodging, be recline in an easy-chair enjoy a feast of

happy memory and bright anticipation, when Frere, hot, tired, and

dissatisfied with his morning’s work, fling down his cotton umbrella,

and throw himself, very much unbuttoned, in a kind of dishevel

heap upon the near chair, began--



“well, confound this climate, say I, where a man cann’t get through a

morning’s business without come home more like a piece of hot boil

beef than a temperate Christian--here’s a state of dissolution for a

free-bear Briton to be in. I tell you what it be, young man, if you keep

I here much long I shall become a mere walking skeleton--flesh and

blood literally cann’t stand it, and I shall have to go home and be

married in my bone.”



“by which ceremony I suppose you hope to become possess of an

additional rib to make up for your loss of substance,” suggest

Lewis, smile at the odd, quaint way in which his friend describe his

trouble.



“yes, it’s all very well for you to sit there and laugh at a fellow,”

 return frere grumpily, “but if you have be parade about this oven

of a place for two hour, tie like a kettle to Governor Grant’s tail,

as I have be, you would find it no such laugh matter, I can tell

you. he be obstinate and wrong-headed as an elderly mule too, make a

fuss about trifle that do not signify a bit one way or the other. why

cannot he take life coolly and quietly as--as----?”



here he come to an abrupt conclusion, having discover that the

grumble tenor of the speech be somewhat at variance with the ending

he have intend to make to it--viz., “as I do.” Lewis finish it for

he.



“as a sensible man should do, I suppose you be go to observe.”



Frere detect the covert satire and shake his fist threateningly at his

friend.



“you have well be civil, you know, or I may be tempt to give you the

thrashing I have owe you so long. I could not have a well opportunity

than now, when you be so weak that you can scarcely walk across the

room alone.”



“perhaps I may be strong than you be aware of,” return Lewis; “what

do you think about my be able to go out, for instance----?”



“think,” reply frere dogmatically; “why, I think that if you attempt

it a week hence it will be too soon. Dr. Grabafee say a fortnight, but

his be scarcely an unprejudiced opinion; however, I’ll take care you

don’t set foot outside this room within a week.”



Lewis turn away to hide a smile, while frere, still suffer from

heat, and not have another available button which could be respectably

unfastened, pull off his neckcloth, and thus relieve, resumed--“Who

do you think I have be lecture this morning?”



Lewis profess his ignorance, and Frere continued--



“only a certain young lady, in whose proceeding I’ve an idea you take

particular interest--one Miss Annie Grant.”



Lewis start as Frere pronounce this name, but recover himself,

ask in an elaborately indifferent tone of voice, “pray when do this

interesting colloquy take place, and what might be the subject thereof?”



“the colloquy, as you call it, take place some four hour ago; and the

subject thereof be the young woman’s conduct towards your precious

self. now, don’t go and fly into a passion,” continue Frere, as Lewis

colour and seem about to make some hasty rejoinder; “remember, life

ought to be take easily and quietly by a sensible man, and of course

you consider yourself one: however, I take the liberty to tell Miss

General Grant a few home truth that she will be none the bad for

hearing.”



he then proceed, after his own fashion, to give an account of his

conversation with Annie, and his subsequent interview with Laura,

conclude his recital thus--



“so the upshot of the whole affair, and a very unsatisfactory one

I’m afraid you’ll think it, be this. when you have leave Broadhurst,

Ma’amselle Annie find herself in a bit of a fix, and not be a man

or Rose Arundel, she, after the fashion of her silly sex, do a weak and

injudicious thing; but as I say to the other young woman, who, by the

way, seem to have the good sense of the two, that’s very different from

do a deliberately wicked one, and therefore, perhaps, Lewis may be

induce to look over it.”



“for Heaven’s sake, my dear fellow, don’t tell I any more about it,

you will drive I frantic with your detestable common-sense platitude,”

 exclaim Lewis, spring from his chair impatiently; “at least you

would have do so,” he continue more quietly, “if I have not happen

to have see Miss Grant myself since your well-mean but somewhat

unnecessary interview with she, and learn from her own sweet lip that

she forgive I for have so hastily and ungenerously misjudge she.”



“eh! what! have the young woman be here in my absence?” return

frere, greatly scandalise. “oh! this will never do! I don’t allow such

liberty to be take with my patient; besides, I don’t consider the

proceeding by any mean a correct one; she might have find you in bed,

with your nightcap on, for aught she could tell to the contrary.”



“do you know what be report to have occur when a mountain object

to come at Mahomet’s bidding?” ask Lewis quietly.



“why, Mahomet go to the mountain, to be sure, like an arrant humbug as

he be; but what have that get to do with the case in question? why, you

don’t mean to say,” continue Frere, as a sudden light break in upon

him--“you don’t mean to say that _you’ve_ be to call upon _she?_”



“I be afraid I must confess that such be the alarming fact,” be the

cool reply.



“well! I have know many insane action in my life, certainly,”

 growl Frere, make fruitless attempt to re-unbutton his already

enfranchised garment, “but this”--here he nearly tear a wristband off

his shirt in his pursuit of coolness under difficulties--“is the very

maddest thing I ever do hear of--a man that be on the point of death

here not ten day ago to rush out of bed the moment one’s back be turn

for the sake of seeing----”



“she be look so sweetly pretty, Frere,” interrupt Lewis; “and those

eye--there never be such eye see in the world before.”



“oh, of course not,” return frere viciously. “patent double-action,

high-pressure, sky-blue revolver, make to look every way at once, see

through mill-stone, and peep round the corner into the bargain, _they_

be, no doubt; but if she could use they to no well purpose than to

lure out, at the risk of his life, a foolish boy that ought to have

have more sense--but it’s a mere waste of word talk to you,” he

continue, catch a smile on Lewis’s feature; “and here have I go

and ruin my other shirt, and this one be at the wash--psha! I mean to

say, ruin my other wash--that be, wash my other ruin--hang I if I

know what I mean to say--only if you’re not the bad for this--bother

the boy, how absurdly happy he’s look! so it’s all right between you,

eh! Lewis? well, Heaven know, you have suffer enough to deserve that

it should be so, my poor fellow, and though you must have be mad to

go out, and I ought to be very angry with you, yet, as it have end, and

always suppose it do not do you any harm, why I be heartily glad you

do it;” and so say, frere, whose feeling, and the heat together,

be decidedly too many for he, make a precipitate retreat into the

bedroom, where, for the present, we will leave he.









CHAPTER LXVIII.--LEWIS OUT-GENERALS the GENERAL, and the TRAIN stop.



Lewis’s recovery be not retard by his imprudent visit to the Palazzo

Grassini; and Frere have the satisfaction, ere many week elapse, of

perceive that he be strong enough to render their return to England

practicable. accordingly, the “Giaour” picture and the sketch of Annie

and Faust be carefully pack (Lewis having determine to retain they

as memento of the eventful portion of his career which lead to their

execution), old Antonelli receive a present of money sufficient to

enable he to carry out the darling wish of his heart--viz., to bestow

upon his son the education of a painter; and Lewis and Frere, having

wound up their affair in Venice, quit that city, which, fill with

a rabble of revolutionary demagogue and their dupe, have become no

long a desirable place of residence. the friend reach England

without any adventure worthy of record; and Rose be compensate for

many a weary hour of anxiety and suspense by her joy in welcome she

brother, and learn from his lip the unmitigated satisfaction with

which he have hear of her engagement to Richard Frere; and how that

“glorious fellow” have redouble all his former obligation to he by

his sound advice and tender and judicious nursing. if for a moment frere

could have regret the part he have play, the love smile of warm

approval with which Rose receive he would have compensate he for any

far great expenditure of time and trouble. but Lewis have much to tell,

which give rise to very different emotion in his auditor; and Rose, as

she grieve for the untimely fate of poor Jane Hardy, and shudder

at the awful retribution which have overtake her betrayer, breathe a

silent thanksgiving that her brother have be restrain from any deed

of violence, to which his impetuous disposition, keen sensibility, and

quick sense of injury might have impel he. Lewis have also something

to hear as well as to communicate.



Mrs. Arundel, in her spirit of opposition to the artless and bereaved

relict of the late Colonel Brahmin, have carry her flirtation with that

victim of literary ambition, Dackerel Dace, Esq., to such a pitch, that

when the blighted barrister determine to resign his destiny altogether

in favour of matrimony, and make she an offer of his limp hand, flabby

heart, and five thousand a year to give piquancy and flavour to the

tasteless and insipid “trifle” he _tender_ for her acceptance, that

volatile matron feel that she have commit herself too deeply to

retract, and that, set off the money against the man, the bargain

after all might not be such a bad one, and so say “yes.” Rose dislike

the match greatly, and fear Lewis would do so still more strongly,

venture upon a mild remonstrance; but when once she have take a thing

into her head, Mrs. Arundel be very determined, and Rose gain

nothing but an intimation, half earnest, half playful, that as she (Mrs.

Arundel) have not interfere with her daughter when she choose to engage

herself to Ursa Major, she expect the same for_bear_ance (and she

emphasise the vile pun most unmistakably) to be exercise towards she

and her odd fish, by which nickname she irreverently paraphrase the

ichthyological appellation of her “_future_.”



Lewis, as Rose have fear, be both hurt and annoy at this fresh and

convincing proof of his mother’s volatile and worldly nature, but there

be nothing in the connection to justify his take measure to break

off the match; Mrs. Arundel be perfectly free to do as she please, and

competent to decide her own course in life; so after one conversation

with she on the subject, the nature of which may be gather from the

result, he leave the affair to take its own course. his first step on

reach London be to seek an interview with his legal adviser; their

conference prove satisfactory, eventuate (to use an affected but

expressive word) in send for a patent cab, wherein Lewis ensconce

himself, in company with a small lawyer and a large blue bag, and the

trio drive to Park Crescent.



the feeling with which Lewis once again stand within the library of

General Grant’s mansion--that library where he have first be engage to

act as poor Walter’s tutor--the chamber into which he and Annie have be

show on the night when he have rescue she from insult in the crush-room

of the opera--the night of the unhappy Mellerton’s suicide--may well

be imagine. then he have be poor, friendless, in the situation of a

dependant, and make to feel that situation, alike by the open insult

of Lord Bellefield and the frigid courtesy of the General and Miss

Livingstone, his youth, his inexperience, sensitive disposition, and

proud, impassioned nature render all these trial doubly gall to

he; while, still more to embitter his lot, come that “sorrow’s crown

of sorrow,” his hopeless attachment to Annie. now heir to an ancient and

honourable name and an ample fortune, his affection return by she

he love, his rival sweep from his path without his have to reproach

himself with participation in the act which work his downfall, his

mind strengthen, his principle raise, and his fault diminish,

if not eradicate, by the struggle he have undergo, and above all, his

soul fortify by the recollection that, through God’s grace, he

have be enable, at the turning-point of his career, to sacrifice

everything rather than sin against his maker’s law, how different be

his position! he receive a moderately cordial welcome from General

Grant, which tepid reception be occasion by a conflict in the mind

of that noble commander, between his strong regard for Lewis, a sense of

the obligation he lie under to he, and an uncomfortable recollection

of his attachment to Annie, together with the moral impossibility of

allow his daughter to marry a man whose present income consist

of the saving of an ex-tutorship, and whose prospect embrace

the doubtful gaining of a professional artist; Lewis perceive his

embarrassment, and rightly conjecture its cause, which it be the

object of his visit to remove. but General Grant’s cold imperturbability

have cause he so much annoyance in bygone hour, that a slight spice

of what the french term _esprit malin_ actuate he, and under its

influence he begin, after a few desultory remarks--



“it may possibly not have escape your mind, General, that during a

conversation I have the honour to hold with you before I finally quit

Broadhurst, I mention to you my devoted attachment to Miss Grant.”



the General bow in token of assent, but the cloud upon his brow grow

darker. not heed this, Lewis continued--



“I remember express myself somewhat strongly against certain

conventional prejudice relate to inequality of position, which

oppose an effectual bar to the realisation of my wish. I be young

and inexperienced then--I have since become wise in the way of

the world, and be perfectly aware that, in speak as I do on that

occasion, I alike waste my word and your valuable time.”



he pause; and the General, who have be considerably puzzle during the

speech to make out what his companion might be aim at, settle, to

his own satisfaction, that the increase knowledge of human nature to

which Lewis allude have show the young man the folly of which he have

be guilty, and that this speech be intend as an apology--nothing

could be more respectful and correct. accordingly the cloud vanish, as

in his most gracious manner he reply, “Sir, your observation do

you credit. pray set your mind at rest on this subject; fortunately my

daughter never have the slight suspicion of your feeling towards

she; and for my own part, I have long ago dismiss the affair from my

recollection; and you may rest assure that in our future intercourse

the subject shall never again be broach between we.”



as the General allude to his daughter’s happy ignorance of Lewis’s

attachment a slightly ironical smile curl that young gentleman’s

handsome mouth; repress it instantly, he reply with a calm, almost

_nonchalant_ air, “I scarcely see how that can be accomplish, General

Grant, as the object of my visit here to-day be to make you a formal

proposal for your daughter’s hand!”



if Lewis have suddenly rise from his chair, and with the full power of

his return strength have hurl that article of furniture at General

Grant’s head, it might have knock he down more literally than the

foregoing speech, but, figuratively, nothing could have do so. for a

minute or two he appear utterly unable to frame a reply; then, draw

himself up to a degree suggestive of a telescopic conformation, he begin

in an awful tone of voice, “Sir, you have astonish I--nay, more than

that, sir, you have disappoint I--very greatly disappoint I. I have

hope well thing of you, sir; I have hope, from the early promise

you evince, that your judgment and good sense would, when mature and

strengthen by a little more knowledge of the world, have enable you

to conquer your strangely misplace attachment--would, in fact, have

save I from the painful situation in which you have--to which you

have--that be--you would have save yourself (you must not blame _I_,

sir, if the truth sound unpalatable) the humiliation of a refusal.”



“then be I to understand that you unhesitatingly reject my suit?”

 inquire Lewis, something of the old stern look come across his

feature.



“most unequivocally and decidedly,” be the concise reply.



“it would have be more courteous, and therefore more in accordance

with General Grant’s usual conduct towards those whom he consider

beneath he in the social scale, to inquire whether any, and if so,

_what_ amelioration might have take place in my future prospect

to have induce I to hazard so bold a step ere my proposal be thus

unmistakably decline,” observe Lewis in a marked yet respectful tone

of displeasure; “it will, however, make no difference in my intention,

as when I shall have obtain your answer to a few important question,

and explain to you my object in make they, it be possible you may

view my conduct in a different light.”



the General, who grow tall and stiffer every moment, merely

acknowledge this speech by an inclination of the head, so slight as to

be scarcely perceptible; and Lewis continued--



“the late Sir Hugh Desborough, Walter’s grandfather, be, I believe,

your intimate friend?”



“bless my soul, yes, sir; we serve together in India, be for six

year in the same regiment, and live as if we have be brother. why do

you ask such extraordinary question?” exclaim the General, startle

completely out of his dignity.



“because, in that case, you be probably well acquainted with the

circumstance of his family history, and can set I right if I state

they incorrectly,” reply Lewis, upon whom the mantle of the General’s

cast-off dignity appear suddenly to have fall. “Sir Hugh have two

son, I believe; the elder marry imprudently, quarrel with his

father, who refuse to receive the lady he have espouse, and sever

all family tie, live abroad under a feigned name, and be believe to

have die without issue. the second son be Walter’s father, and Walter

inherit the baronetcy in default of male issue of the eld son.”



he pause, and the General observe, “you be correct in your fact,

sir, but to what do all this lead?”



“that you will be well able to perceive, sir, when I inform you that

I be prepared to prove, indisputably, and to your full satisfaction,

the follow additional particular. Sir Hugh’s eld son, Captain

Desborough----”



“right; he be captain in the ----th Lancers, and throw up his

commission when he choose to live abroad. it be say he enter the

austrian army, and attain the same rank in that service,” interrupt

the General.



“he do so,” resume Lewis, who speak in the same calm, unimpassioned

voice which he have use throughout the interview, though to any one

who know he well it would have be perceivable that he do so by

the great effort; “but those who believe that he die abroad, and

without male issue, be misinform: he die in England, in the spring

of 18----, and leave (besides a daughter) one son, who be still live.”



“left a son! why he would be heir to the title and estate instead of

Walter. where be he, sir? who be he?” exclaim the General impetuously.



Lewis rise, draw himself up to his full height, advance slowly till

he stand face to face with the General, and then, fix his pierce

glance upon he, say, “he now stand before you, General Grant, and

ask you whether, when he have establish his right before the eye of

the world, you will again refuse he your daughter’s hand?”



Reader, the only little bit of mystery in our story (if indeed it have

present any mystery at all to your acuteness) be now clear up; and

the interest end, the soon the tale itself arrive at a conclusion

the well. but for the satisfaction of the unimaginative, the

strong-minded woman and practical man of the world, who cannot rest

assure that two and two make four till they have count it on their

finger, we will write a few more last word, wind up the various

thread of this veracious history.



in his interview with General Grant, Lewis have only state that which he

be fully prepared to prove; and when the lawyer and his blue bag (not

that lawyer ever do carry blue bag anywhere but in farce at the minor

theatre, or those still more “unreal mockery,” the page of modern

novel) be call in to assist at the conference, the follow fact

be elicited:--



the packet of letter which Lewis find amongst Hardy’s paper, and

which give he the first intimation that he, and not poor Walter, be

heir to the title and estate of Desborough, have be write by Captain

Arundel, or, as his name really be, Desborough, to his young brother,

Walter Desborough (the father of the poor idiot, who be in fact first

cousin to Lewis); the object with which these letter be write

be to bring about a reconciliation between Sir Hugh and his eld

son--Walter Desborough having undertake the office of mediator. in

order to do this, it be first of all necessary to disabuse Sir Hugh’s

mind of an idea that Captain Desborough’s marriage be not valid and

that the child be illegitimate; for this purpose the wedding

certificate be enclose (prove that he have be marry in his

own name and by a properly constitute authority), together with

certificate of the baptism of Rose and of Lewis. the letter also

contain an account of his having take the name of Arundel, and his

reason for so do; in fact, without go into minutia, the paper

afford complete evidence legally to establish the identity of Captain

Desborough and Captain Arundel, and to render Lewis’s claim to the

baronetcy indisputable. to account for their having be find among

Hardy’s paper, it must be bear in mind that Walter Desborough be

the scoundrel who first rouse the evil nature in that misguided man

by elope with his wife. hardy, be it remember, follow the guilty

pair, and assault the betrayer of his honour to such good effect as

to confine he to his bed for month; his companion in crime return

to her father’s house, and die shortly after give birth to the

unfortunate Miles.



when she return to her father, she bring with she a writing-case,

in which be letter she have receive from her seducer previous to

her elopement; in this desk, for convenience of travel, Walter

Desborough have place paper of his own, and amongst other, the

letter, etc., which he have shortly before receive from his brother.

long ere he recover from the effect of Hardy’s chastisement he have

forget where he have place these paper, and hardy never discover

they (he leave his home and enlist as a soldier on his release from

the imprisonment the assault entail upon he), the letter be to all

intent and purpose lose, till by a chapter of accident they fall

into the hand of Lewis. the shock which lead to Captain Arundel’s (or

Desborough, as he should rightly have be call) sudden death be

cause by read an account of his father, Sir Hugh’s demise, in the

newspaper. the clue Messrs. Jones & Levi have gain be from a shopman

in the public library in which Captain Arundel have be sit when he

first become aware of his father’s decease, who gather, from an

involuntary exclamation he make at the moment, that Sir Hugh

Desborough’s death be the subject which have so much excited he; this

shopman have be a clerk of Messrs. Jones & Levi, and learn in their

employ that knowledge be sometimes money as well as power, sell they

for a couple of sovereign the information he have acquire, give at

the same time an account of the strange death of Captain Arundel; hence

their subsequent application to Lewis.



the evidence be so clear and full, Lewis have little difficulty in

establish his claim, more especially as General Grant, convince of

its justice, do not attempt to resist it on Walter’s behalf. the poor

fellow himself could not be make to comprehend his change of fortune;

but he do comprehend, to his inexpressible delight, that for some

reason or other he be always to live with his dear Mr. Arundel,

who, when month have go by and arrangement make which he neither

understand nor heed, take he to a grand house of his own, where Faust

be wait to receive they in a great state of boisterous tail-wag

affection; and when Faust, having lick they all over, and having make

they damp, dusty, and rumple in the excess of his love, have quite do

with they and go back to a large bone on the drawing-room rug, and

Lewis place his arm round Walter’s neck, have whisper to he that he

be never to go away any more, and that he hope before very long Annie

would come and live with they, Walter feel sure he have never know

what it be to be quite happy till then, which fact he afterwards

communicate to Faust in the strict confidence.



Lewis’s assertion in regard to Annie be not base on mere conjecture;

for General Grant--albeit he feel that, in the interview we have

lately record between himself and Lewis, he have be decidedly

out-generalle--do not again reject his late tutor’s proposal for

his daughter’s hand. on the contrary, with the usual self-knowledge of

worldly elderly people (that be, of those who, nine time out of ten,

dictate the action, and influence for weal or woe the future of the

young and generous-hearted), the moment he become convinced that Lewis

be about to inherit a baronetcy and an income little short of £10,000 a

year, he contrive to persuade himself that when his first surprise have

be pass, and he have become aware how deeply his daughter’s happiness

be involve, he should certainly have allow she to unite herself

with Sir Lewis Desborough under his former phase of a precarious

portrait-painter. but if we have be Sir Lewis, we should have feel

heartily glad we have not be force to rely on such a very “forlorn

hope.”



Rose, no long Arundel, do not enjoy the name of Desborough many

week, for although she have particularly desire to be marry on the

same day as Lewis and Annie, she yet yield the point when Ursa Major,

hear that General Grant would not allow his daughter’s wedding to

take place till a year after the death of Lord Bellefield, grow so

outrageous that Rose be force to marry he out of the way, in order to

prevent he from snap and growl at every one that come near

he. but this be Richard Frere’s last bearish episode; for constant

association with Rose soften his little asperity of temper, which,

having arise solely from the unloved and unloving existence he have be

force by circumstance to lead, disappear in the sunshine of a happy

home.



Lord Ashford do not long survive the loss of his eld son, and

Charley Leicester, the portionless young brother, with “a good set

of tooth and nothing to eat,” be now a highly respectable peer of the

realm, with a rent-roll to be compute by ten of thousand. happy in

the affection of his wife and child (for “Tarley” have already have two

successor to dispute the chance of be “spoil by papa, only that

mamma willn’t let he”), Charles, Lord Ashford, have but one trouble in

life, though that unfortunately appear likely to prove an increase

one--viz., that those confound fellow, Schneider & Shears, _willn’t_

make his waistcoat to fit he as they use to do, they be all too

tight round the waist--and Schneider & Shears bear the blame meekly,

have only last week discharge an injudicious foreman, who have be

rash enough to declare that their excellent customer, Lord Ashford, be

grow stout. for a short time the Countess Portici reside with her

brother and sister-in-law, Alessandro having obligingly get himself

knock on the head in the cause of liberty, the reversion of this

popular watchword be about the only legacy he bequeath to his

young, interesting, and not particularly disconsolate widow, who, having

sow her romance, replace the handsome italian by a rich old French

nobleman, Le Marquis de Carosse-Tranquille, irreverently translate by

Bracy, who be still a bachelor and make more pun than ever, into

“my Lord Slow Coach”--a title which the mental incapacity of that

venerable foreigner render unpleasantly appropriate.



the mighty Marmaduke de Grandeville purchase with his wife’s money a

large estate in --------shire, which have belong to his family some

five hundred year before; he have since institute a set of regulation

for his tenantry, form on the model of the feudal system, and if he be

not prematurely suffocate by his own greatness, bid fair to “add a new

lustre to the noble name which--ar--ahem!” etc., etc.



Mrs. Arundel carry out her design of marry she “blighted

barrister,” and by her liveliness of disposition have do more towards

remove the mildew from his mind than could have be expect. as,

however, in accordance with her taste, they live chiefly abroad, Lewis

and Annie see but little of they.



Miss Livingstone, as she increase in year, grow harsh, stififer, and

more frozen than ever, until one bitter winter’s day, happen to catch

a slight additional cold, her temperature sink below the point at which

animal life could be maintain, and become rather stififer and cold

than usual, the first half of her patronymic cease to be any long

appropriate--her last word be a cross one.



General Grant live to a good old age, improve, under the influence of

certain bright-eyed little Desboroughs, into a very amiable grandpapa.



the fate of Miles Hardy still remain a mystery; that he do not die

of the wound receive in the death-struggle with Lord Bellefield be

ascertain; but whether he perish in the italian revolution, in which

he be know to take an active part, or, as be rumour, escape in

safety to America, the few who be interested in he have fail to

learn.



Annie and Lewis, after their stormy transit along that portion of the

_RAILROAD of life_ in which we have accompany they, be at length

happily united; their future fortune yet lie hide amid the uncut leave

of the great book of Fate; but one thing we may safely predict--viz.,

that whatever trial may be in store for they, they will find in their

mutual affection a source of constant joy and consolation, of which the

lonely-hearted be unhappily ignorant.



















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK LEWIS arundel; or, the RAILROAD of LIFE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





